-- 
U.S. Gasoline Imports From Europe Decline as Climbing Prices Erode Demand

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-04-27T12:52:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/u-s-gasoline-imports-from-europe-may-drop-to-four-month-low-on-pricing.html
Gasoline shipments to the U.S. from
 Europe  are poised to drop in April to the lowest in four months,
reinforcing speculation that a surge in pump prices is hurting
consumption in the world’s biggest oil user.  At least 15 tankers were scheduled to ship 570,000 metric
tons of the fuel to the U.S. Atlantic Coast from Europe as of
April 20, the least for a comparable period since December,
according to Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the
world’s biggest shipbroker. A total of 1.14 million tons was
booked to sail in March.  “The main downside risk on gasoline remains the demand
erosion or destruction risk as gasoline prices at the pump are
starting to average $4 a gallon before the start of the driving
season,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of Switzerland-based
consultant Petromatrix GmbH, said on April 25. “The U.S.
driving budget is double what it was in the spring of 2009.”  A decline in imports at a time when motorists normally
start taking to the roads for summer vacations underlines
concern that demand is falling, limiting export opportunities
for European refiners, including Total SA, the largest in the
continent, and energy traders such as Morgan Stanley. The
 International Energy Agency  on April 12 said that swelling fuel
costs are eroding growth in the world’s largest economy.  Profit from buying gasoline in Europe and selling it in the
U.S. shrank to a two-month low at 8.88 cents a gallon, data from
London-based brokerage PVM Oil Associates Ltd showed. That’s
down 41 percent from this year’s peak at 15 cents on Feb. 28.  ‘Demand Destruction’  “With  oil prices  so high, people will certainly drive
less,”  James Williams , an economist at  WTRG Economics , an
energy-research firm in London,  Arkansas , said April 19. “There
will be demand destruction.”  U.S. consumption of the motor fuel is likely to average 9.3
million barrels a day this summer, rising 0.5 percent, or 45,000
barrels a day, compared with last summer, the U.S. Energy
Department said in its summer fuels  outlook  report on April 13.  “Our forecast calls for modest growth in motor gasoline
and distillate fuel consumption, reflecting both continued
economic growth and the restraining effects of higher crude oil
and product prices compared with last summer,” according to the
Department.  Imports fell 224,000 barrels a day, or 21 percent, to
853,000 barrels a day in the two weeks to April 18, according to
Energy Department data. The volumes are  forecast  to average
630,000 barrels a day through Sept. 30, a drop of 70,000 barrels
a day from last summer, the department said.  Reduce Travel  “U.S. gasoline demand has so far shown the clearest
indications of the impact of high prices on consumption,”  David Wech , head of research at Vienna-based consultant JBC Energy
GmbH, said in a note April 26. “Amid concerns about the health
of U.S. finances and the path of the global economy, consumers
might reduce non-essential travel.”  Returns from the transatlantic trade also eroded as
supplies dwindled in Europe, pushing benchmark gasoline to a
record high in the Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp, or ARA, oil hub.
Eurobob grade traded as high as $1,130 a ton yesterday, the most
since the contract was introduced in 2010.  Refinery shutdowns reduced stockpiles of gasoline held in
independent storage in the ARA-region to 644,000 metric tons in
the week to April 21, the lowest since Dec. 30, according to
data from Netherlands-based researcher PJK International BV.  Gasoline’s crack, or premium to crude, will likely stay
capped in Europe even as refiners undertake spring refinery
maintenance, analysts including Peter Stewart at KBC Advanced
Technologies Plc, a researcher based in Walton-on-Thames,
 England , said in an April 11 note.  Modest Gains  “Ample refining capacity means gasoline cracks should stay
in single digits through the period of peak demand,” KBC said.
“As a result, although some seasonal improvement in margins
from spring into summer is anticipated, it is likely to be
modest.”  The motor fuel’s crack in northwest Europe was at $10.61 a
barrel today, up 29 percent since April 1, PVM data showed. In
the U.S., the spread was at $27.11 a barrel, and is higher than
its European counterpart due to the cheaper cost of West Texas
Intermediate crude relative to North Sea Brent.  Gasoline futures for May delivery rose 1.28 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $3.37 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
as of 1:45 p.m.  London  time. The national average gasoline price
rose to $3.879 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA.  The following table lists ships booked in April to carry
gasoline from Europe to the U.S. Atlantic Coast, according to
Clarkson:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 Lnguyen35@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 