-- 
U.S. Has No Plans to Close Syria Embassy, Criticizes Violence

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-04-26T21:20:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/u-s-has-no-plans-to-close-syria-embassy-criticizes-violence.html
The U.S. has no plans to close its
embassy in  Syria , a State Department official said today, as the
Obama administration considered targeting Syrian leaders with
sanctions because of their violent crackdown on protesters.  Jacob Sullivan, director of policy planning, said that
while the department has ordered the departure of some staff,
keeping the embassy open is valuable.  “At the moment, we are not actively considering shutting
down our embassy in Syria,” Sullivan said in a briefing for
reporters. “We believe that diplomats offer us an opportunity
to communicate” directly to the Syrian government.  The Assistant Secretary for Near East Affairs,  Jeffrey Feltman , called the Syrian ambassador to the U.S. into his
office yesterday, Sullivan said. He also said that U.S.
ambassador to Syria, Robert Ford, was in recent contact with
Syrian officials.  “In the case of Syria, we have consistently and continued
to condemn the brutal violence that’s being used against its
citizens," Sullivan said.  Sullivan, who said that the Obama administration is
considering ‘‘targeted sanctions’’ against the regime headed by
Bashar al-Assad, refused to say that Assad has lost legitimacy.  Without offering specifics, Sullivan said the department is
aiming sanctions ‘‘at those responsible for this violence’’ with
the goal of making them ‘‘understand there are costs, specific
costs, related to their action.’’  Sullivan said there were no guarantees sanctions would
work. He stressed that sanctions are ‘‘not something that we
have decided to do yet.’’  Syrian security forces strafed the streets of the southern
city of Daraa with machine guns today and the government cut off
water supplies as the death toll from yesterday’s crackdown rose
to 25, a witness said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  