-- 
UAW’s King Says Union May Not Select Strike Target in 2011 Talks

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-04-26T18:16:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/uaw-s-king-says-union-may-not-select-strike-target-in-2011-talks.html
United Auto Workers President  Bob King  said that the union may break with tradition and not set a
strike target for this year’s contract negotiations with U.S.
automakers.  The union’s leadership hasn’t decided if it will follow its
custom and pick one company to negotiate a labor deal, which
would become a pattern for an agreement with the other two major
U.S. carmakers, King said today a speech to the Automotive Press
Association in  Detroit . King said he still is discussing the
matter with his bargaining team.  "We have very advanced and good relationships to make sure
our membership gets their fair share of the upside," King said
in a question-and-answer session after the speech. "I would hope
we don’t have to get to the point of picking a strike target."  King, 64, will negotiate new contracts this year with
 General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC.
Agreements expire in September. He has said workers must be
rewarded for the $7,000 to $30,000 in concessions they each gave
since 2005 to help the automakers survive.  The concessions included surrendering raises, bonuses and
cost-of-living adjustments as well as agreeing to a two-tier
wage system, in which new hires earn about $14 an hour, half the
amount paid to senior production workers.  Autoworker Concessions  The UAW also agreed to accept cash and securities from the
carmakers to fund a retiree health-care trust in lieu of the
companies paying for benefits with cash from their operating
budgets.  In previous contract negotiations, the UAW has selected one
company as a “strike target” with which it would try to reach
a labor agreement. If they couldn’t come to terms, the union
sometimes went on strike and turned to another of the three
major U.S. carmakers to get a deal.  King has said that he wants the UAW to establish ties with
other unions in the U.S. and globally and organize a foreign-
owned auto plant in the U.S.  GM, which reorganized in bankruptcy in 2009, earned $6.17
billion last year. Ford, the only major U.S. automaker to avoid
bankruptcy, had net income of $6.56 billion last year, the most
since 1999. Chrysler, which also reorganized in 2009, posted a
net loss of $652 million last year and forecast net income of as
much as $500 million this year.  Ford reported a 22 percent increase in net income for the
first quarter today, its biggest profit for the period since
1998.  Board Representation  King said he would like to see the UAW and other unions get
more representation on the boards of U.S. corporations the way
they do in  Germany , where companies are required by law to
include them.  The UAW has representatives on the boards of GM and
Chrysler that represent the voluntary employee beneficiary
associations that own stock in both companies and pay retiree
health-care benefits. They don’t represent active workers.  "If I had a magic wand, I’d take the German law and put it
in the U.S.," King said. "Workers should have representation on
the board."  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 Dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  