-- 
UBS Attracts Highest Client Inflows Since 2007 as Profit Exceeds Estimates

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-04-26T16:13:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/ubs-posts-decline-in-quarterly-net-on-lower-securities-earnings.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank,
attracted the most new money from wealthy customers since the
end of 2007 and reported first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates.  UBS rose 3.9 percent in Swiss trading, the biggest gain in
two months, after  wealth management  and retail clients added a
net 16.7 billion francs ($19 billion), more than double the
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income was 1.81
billion francs, topping the 1.69 billion-franc forecast of
analysts.  Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  attributed the
increase in new funds to “the return of client trust and
confidence” after wealthy customers withdrew 251.6 billion
francs in the nine quarters through June of last year. Earnings
at the investment bank slumped on lower revenue from trading
stocks and bonds.  “The main thing is they’re having inflows again, and
that’s good,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets. “The investment bank will remain a
construction site for UBS for a while.”  UBS rose 64 centimes to 17.23 francs, bringing the gain
this year to 12 percent. That compares with the 2.7 percent
increase in the 48-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index.  Wealth Management  Earnings at the wealth management and Swiss bank division
fell 9.7 percent in the first quarter to 1.05 billion francs on
higher costs, including personnel expenses.  The wealth management gross margin, the amount of revenue
the bank makes on assets under management, rose to 98 basis
points from 93 basis points in the year-earlier quarter. Gruebel
aims to increase the margin to more than 100 basis points, or 1
percentage point, this year.  The division, which contributed 55 percent of pretax profit
in 2010, produces a higher return on equity than the securities
unit and will become even more important as stricter capital
rules hurt returns at the investment bank, according to
analysts.  Wealth management customers pulled assets from UBS during
the crisis, spooked by mounting writedowns and a U.S.
investigation into whether the bank helped American clients
evade taxes. The U.S.  Justice Department  in October dismissed
the case against UBS and the  Internal Revenue Service  dropped a
demand for customer identities in November after the bank turned
over data on more than 4,000 clients.  Sales & Trading  “Wealth management is turning around very well,” JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analysts led by Kian Abouhossein said in a note to
clients today. “The key is now to address the investment
bank.”  Wealth Management Americas, which includes the former  Paine
Webber , reported a jump in pretax profit to 111 million francs
from 15 million francs a year earlier, while the asset
management unit reported a 9.5 percent decline in earnings to
124 million francs.  Pretax profit at the investment bank, run by Carsten Kengeter, fell 30 percent to 835 million francs. Kengeter, 44,
became sole head of the division in November.  Revenue from sales and trading of equities, fixed-income,
currencies and commodities declined 9 percent to 3.1 billion
francs in the quarter and was the lowest compared with the five
biggest U.S. investment-bank competitors, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. UBS aims to boost this revenue to a
quarterly rate of about 3.75 billion francs by 2014.  ‘Issue with People’  “UBS does not have the scale to compete with top players”
especially in the rates business within the fixed-income unit,
JPMorgan analysts wrote.  Revenue from the so-called macro business, which includes
sales and trading of currencies, money market and interest rate
products, fell 40 percent from the year-ago quarter and was
“below our expectations and well below our target,” Chief
Financial Officer John Cryan said on a conference call today.  “It must be an issue with people,” Cryan, 50, said. “It
must be trading strategies and it must be the way that we
execute the business, so we’re working on it.”  Gruebel, 67, told Swiss magazine Bilanz in an interview
last month that he underestimated how long it would take for the
investment bank to rebound after the credit crisis, when UBS
amassed more than $57 billion in writedowns and losses. UBS may
need to cut costs at the investment bank this year if revenue
doesn’t improve, after hiring more than 1,700 bankers for the
unit in the past two years, Gruebel said in February.  Trails Competitors  “UBS tried to rebuild the base at the investment bank
where there was some degree of business still there,”
 Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA,
said before today’s release. “Gruebel is taking a pragmatic
view, saying maybe I can’t just depend on the markets getting
better and I have to be a bit more inventive.”  The investment bank saw some “redundancies” in the first
quarter of this year and also hired people, primarily in the
control functions, Cryan said.  UBS’s revenue at the investment bank has trailed
competitors since 2009, when Gruebel set the targets for
returning earnings at the unit to pre-crisis levels by 2014.
Analysts say Gruebel may cut his targets for the investment bank
because they were set before the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  stiffened rules last year, forcing lenders to set
aside more capital for their riskiest operations.  Capital Rules  Cryan said the bank is sticking with its targets. The
outlook for the trading businesses “seems OK” as markets are
seeing some volatility, Cryan said. Client activity levels are
“acceptable,” and “a lot better than they had been in the
second half of 2010,” he said.  The bank is still reviewing the effects of stricter  capital
requirements  on some of its trading businesses, particularly
within the debt unit, Cryan said. The determinant of whether
certain units and products will still be viable in the future
will be whether the market will be ready to absorb higher prices
as a result of the higher cost of capital, he said.  Credit trading, which reported a 33 percent increase in
revenue in the first quarter from a year ago, may be one of the
investment-banking businesses most hurt by changes in capital
rules, according to Wheeler’s analysis.  Swiss regulators have forced UBS and Credit Suisse Group AG
to fulfill Basel’s stricter requirements on trading-book capital
since January, a year before their international competitors.
The Swiss government, which rescued UBS with a 6 billion-franc
capital injection during the financial crisis, last week asked
parliament to approve legal changes that will require UBS and
Credit Suisse Group AG to hold almost twice as much capital as
the new Basel rules require starting in 2019.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  