-- 
Hungarian Stocks Gain, Led by OTP, on Improving Global Earnings

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-04-26T15:06:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/hungary-s-bux-stock-index-advances-led-by-mol-otp-bank.html
Hungarian shares gained, led by OTP
Bank Nyrt., the country’s largest lender, as earnings at
companies from UBS AG to Ford Motor Co. boosted confidence in
the health of the global economy.  The benchmark BUX index rose 0.8 percent to 24,151.16 by
4:37 p.m. in Budapest, extending this month’s rally to 4.7
percent, the most since January. OTP added 1.7 percent to 6,345
forint.  Stocks rebounded from yesterday’s drop in the U.S. and rose
in  Europe  for a fourth day after earnings from UBS and Ford beat
analysts’ estimates. UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, attracted
the highest wealth management inflows since the end of 2007 in
the first quarter, while Ford, the second-largest U.S.
automaker, said first-quarter profit rose 22 percent to the most
for the period since 1998.  The Hungarian government will lower a special tax on banks
as part of an agreement with lenders to help distressed
borrowers after a moratorium on evictions runs out, news portal
Mfor reported today, citing an official document it obtained.
The government and the country’s commercial lenders have not yet
agreed on a plan, the  Economy Ministry  said in a e-mailed
statement. Hungary will finalize the mortgage relief plan in
May, said Anna Nagy, a government spokeswoman, in an interview
with Magyar Hirlap published on April 23.  The measures reported by Mfor on the distressed borrowers
plan would be “neutral” to “mildly positive” for OTP’s
stock, according to Attila Gyurcsik, an equity analyst at
Concorde Securities. Ending the eviction moratorium would help
increase lending, Gyurcsik said.  “If banks can enforce their mortgage rights then lending
can start again,” Gyurcsik said by phone from Budapest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  