-- 
U.S. Steel Posts Loss as Raw-Material, Retiree Costs Gain

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-04-26T21:22:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/united-states-steel-has-first-quarter-loss-of-60-cents.html
U.S. Steel Corp., the largest U.S.
producer of the metal by volume, reported a ninth successive
quarterly loss after raw-material and retiree-benefit costs
increased.  The loss narrowed 45 percent to $86 million, or 60 cents a
share, from $157 million, or $1.10, a year earlier, the
Pittsburgh-based company said in a statement today. That matched
the estimate from David A. Lipschitz, an analyst at  Credit
Agricole  in New York, while missing the 40-cent estimate of Luke A. Folta, an Independence, Ohio-based analyst at Longbow
Research, according to a Bloomberg survey. U.S. Steel dropped as
much as 4 percent in New York trading.  Retiree benefit-related expenses rose 61 percent to $71
million because of pension-plan asset losses in 2008. Prices for
iron ore and coking coal, used in blast furnaces, jumped as
Chinese demand climbed. U.S. Steel’s flat-rolled steel output
was worse than expected because of disruptions related to cold,
snowy weather in the Great Lakes region, said Mark Parr, an
analyst with KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. in  Cleveland .  “If you look at the domestic flat-rolled side, they
continue to have production issues,” Parr, who recommends
buying U.S. Steel shares, said in a telephone interview.  U.S. Steel fell $2.11, or 4.1 percent, to $49.72 at 4:15
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have dropped 15 percent this year, making it the worst performer
in Standard & Poor’s 500 Materials Index.  Price Gain  Sales gained 25 percent to $4.86 billion from $3.9 billion,
matching the average of six analysts’ estimates in the Bloomberg
survey.  The company said business from steel distributors will pick
up as they sell their stockpiles.  “Service-center inventories are relatively low and our
customers are tending to buy just what they need to sell,”
Chief Executive Officer John P. Surma said on a conference call
with analysts. “That means that they probably need to order at
some point if their business continues to do pretty well, which
I think they’re doing.”  U.S. Steel said in its earnings statement it expects to
return to profitability in the second quarter as steel prices
rise while its  iron-ore  and coal will be “relatively stable.”  Iron-ore prices in  China , the largest user of the
steelmaking ingredient, averaged $178 a metric ton in the
quarter, 35 percent more than a year earlier, according to data
from the Steel Index. Chinese coking-coal prices were up 14
percent, according to McCloskey data.  AK Profit  Hot-rolled steel coil, a benchmark product used in cars and
buildings, averaged $645 a short ton in the quarter, 15 percent
more than a year earlier, according to Metal Bulletin data. U.S.
steelmakers used 76 percent of their production capacity as of
April 18, the highest level in more than two years, according to
the  American Iron and Steel Institute .  AK Steel Holding Corp. (AKS) , the third-largest U.S. steelmaker,
also reported earnings today. First-quarter net income climbed
to $8.7 million, or 8 cents a share, from $1.9 million, or 2
cents, a year earlier, the company said in a statement. The
average of 11 analysts’ estimates was for a loss of 1 cent. The
shares rose $1.02, or 6.4 percent, to $16.96 in New York
trading.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sonja Elmquist at 
 Selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  