-- 
USPTO, Baidu, Tiger Brands, Kraft: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-04-26T11:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/uspto-baidu-tiger-brands-kraft-intellectual-property.html
The U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office said it’s putting off plans to open its first satellite
office and will delay a program to speed inventors’ applications
after Congress limited the money the agency can spend.  The office also instituted a hiring freeze and scaled back
technology projects “until further notice,” Director David
Kappos said in an April 22  blog  posting. The fiscal 2011 budget,
signed by President Barack Obama April 15 after months of
dispute with lawmakers over trimming the federal deficit, gives
the Alexandria, Virginia-based patent office the authority to
spend as much as $2.09 billion of the fees it collects.  While funding increases about 3.5 percent from fiscal 2010,
the budget is less than the $2.3 billion Obama sought and
deprives the agency of the ability to spend all of the user fees
it collects. Kappos, a former International Business Machines
Corp. engineer and lawyer, had said he wanted to use the extra
money to make the patent office more efficient.  “Anything new you want to do has to come from this money”
since the bulk of the current budget is tied up in salaries,
said Q. Todd Dickinson, a former head of the patent office who
is now executive director of the American  Intellectual Property 
Law Association in Arlington, Virginia. “Most of his new
initiatives have to be postponed or scaled back.”  The program cuts Kappos is making include postponement of
the first of a three-track program in which inventors pay extra
fees to get a faster review of their applications, a scaling
back of the agency’s plan to improve its information technology
system and a delay in opening an office in  Detroit .  In addition, hiring for new positions or to fill openings
is frozen, overtime is suspended and employee training will be
reduced, Kappos said. Trademark operations, which account for
less than a 10th of the agency’s budget, won’t be affected.  The office doesn’t receive tax dollars and is fully funded
by fees from patent and trademark applicants. Fees collected
above the budget authority can’t be spent without approval from
Congress, which has kept more than $800 million of the office’s
money since a 1990 law mandated the agency pay for itself.  Obama has requested $2.6 billion for fiscal 2012 for the
patent office. Legislation being considered by Congress would
end the diversion of fees and set up a fund the agency could tap
with money collected above what’s budgeted.  Kappos called for increased hiring to deal with a backlog
of applications that now stands at about 700,000. The agency has
said reducing the backlog, and providing patent protection to
new inventions, may help create U.S. jobs.  “This halt in hiring will cause a loss of momentum and
probably cause the backlog to rise again,” said Herb Wamsley,
executive director of the Intellectual Property Owners
Association, a Washington-based lobbying group representing
companies including Microsoft Corp., Google Inc., Monsanto Co.
and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  India , Japan Sign Accord on Traditional Knowledge Database  India’s Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
signed an agreement to give access to its Traditional Knowledge
Digital Library to the Japanese patent office, according to an
Indian government  statement .  Similar agreements had already been made with the European
Patent Office and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and
patent offices in Germany,  Australia ,  Canada  and the U.K.  Under the terms of the agreement, while patent examiners
can use the database for patent search and examination purposes,
they can’t reveal the content to third parties.  The database includes information on traditional Indian
medicine, and photographs of yoga poses. The database today
contains about 226,000 Indian medical formulations.  The Indian government said that since July 2009, 224
applications filed at the  European Patent Office  were identified
as having a bearing on the Indian system of medicine. Applicants
in 33 cases have already withdrawn their applications.  The filing of patent applications at the EPO related to
Indian medicine has declined sharply since the database was
created, the government said.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  China  to Punish Sites for Illegal Music Downloads, Xinhua Says  China will punish 14 websites that have provided illegal
music downloads, including Baidu Inc.’s “BaiduMP3” service,
the Xinhua News Agency  reported  yesterday, citing an
unidentified official from the Ministry of Culture.  The ministry will also punish 20 online gaming companies,
including Shenzhen Xunlei Network Technology Ltd., for using
“vulgar” promotional methods for their games, Xinhua said,
without elaborating.  Xinhua reported that the ministry has censured four other
online gaming companies for operating such services without a
license.  Nevada Judge Finds ‘Fair Use’ in Righthaven Copyright Case  Stephens Media Group’s efforts at copyright enforcement
were dealt a blow by a Nevada federal judge April 22.  In an order saying there was no reason for the case to go
forward, U.S. District Judge James C. Mahan said copyright law’s
doctrine of “fair use” covered the posting of a story from the
 Las Vegas  Review-Journal.  Righthaven LLC sued the Portland, Oregon-based Center for
Intercultural Organizing for copyright infringement Aug. 5. It
objected to the posting of an article about deportation
proceedings against those undocumented immigrants who commit
misdemeanors. It was posted on the refugee and immigrant rights
group’s website.  Las Vegas-based Righthaven has filed more than 200
copyright-infringement cases against those who’ve posted
articles or photos from Stephens Media’s newspapers on their
websites. Righthaven says in the complaints it files that it is
the owner of the copyrights to the photos and stories.  On April 14, in another case, U.S. District Judge Roger L.
Hunt ordered the unsealing of the document that gave Righthaven
the right to enforce the copyrights. That agreement limits
Righthaven’s rights with respect to those copyrights.  In his ruling in the Center for Intercultural Organizing
case, Judge Mahan said he was focusing on Righthaven’s use of
the copyrights “which, at this juncture, has been shown to be
nothing more than litigation driven.”  He said “no reasonable jury” could conclude that the
center’s posting of the article was done for a commercial
purpose. He noted that the piece is “an informational work,
which readily lends itself to a productive use by others and,
thus, deserves less protection than a creative work of
entertainment.”  Righthaven filed to demonstrate that a market existed for
its copyright, he said, and had failed to show there had been
any harm from the posting of the story.  He then chastened Righthaven, saying its ligation strategy
“has a chilling effect” on potential fair uses of Righthaven-
owned articles, diminished public access to the facts contained
therein, and does nothing to advance the Copyright Act’s purpose
of promoting artistic creation.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Center for Intercultural
Organizing, 2:10-cv-01322-JCM-LRL, U.S. District Court, District
of Nevada (Las Vegas).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  ‘Help’ Author Accused of Misappropriating Likeness, Name  Kathryn Stockett , author of “ The Help ,” has responded to
a suit alleging one of the principal characters in her novel has
misappropriated the likeness of a resident of Jackson,
 Mississippi .  Stockett’s book, published in 2009 by Penguin Group Inc.,
is set in Jackson in the early 1960s. It narrates the struggles
of a group of African American domestic workers with their white
employers. The  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Touchstone Pictures unit will
release  a film based on the novel  in August.  A key element in the plot is the white employers’ refusal
to let their African American domestic employees use toilets in
the employers’ homes.  One of the main characters in the book is a domestic worker
named Aibileen. Ablene Cooper, who worked as a maid for
Stockett’s family, sued the writer, claiming the character was
based on her likeness and name.  In the complaint she filed in Mississippi state court in
February, Cooper said she specifically asked the author not to
use her name or likeness in the book, and Stockett refused.  Cooper said there are many similarities between herself and
the fictional Aibileen: both are African American and middle
aged, have a gold tooth, work for a white family in Jackson. In
addition, both have a deceased son and both first names have a
similar pronunciation, Cooper said.  She said the book holds her to the public eye in a false
light and in a manner that is “emotionally upsetting and highly
offensive.” She said it was emotionally upsetting and highly
offensive to be falsely portrayed as an African-American maid
forced to use a segregated toilet in the garage of her white
employer’s home. Cooper accused Stockett of “hijacking” her
name and likeness, and seeks $75,000 in damages.  Stockett filed her response April 14. She said that her
fictional Aibileen isn’t based on Cooper and that no likeness is
used. The author noted that her character was born in 1909, so
couldn’t be based on a character that is middle aged today.  She said Cooper hasn’t stated any claim on which she is
entitled to make a recovery. Stockett also says that her writing
is covered by the First Amendment and the Mississippi
Constitution of 1890, which gives protection to fiction
addressing a matter of public concern such as “the relationship
between the races in Mississippi in the early 1960s.”  Cooper is represented by Edward L. Sanders of Jackson, and
Cynthia A. Stewart of Madison, Mississippi.  Stockett’s lawyers are  Fred L. Banks ,  Luther Munford  and R.
Gregg Mayer of New Orleans-based  Phelps Dunbar LLP .  The case is Ablene Cooper V. Kathryn Stockett, Civil Action
2541-134CN, Circuit Court, 1st Judicial District of Hinds
County, Mississippi.  Tiger Acquires ‘Status’ Men’s Deodorant Trademark From Unilever  Tiger Brands Ltd. (TBS) ,  South Africa ’s largest food company, has
acquired the “Status” trademarks from  Unilever Plc (ULVR) , the
company said in a statement.  Tiger Brand’s “ Mousson ” trademark, which has been used
for foam bath and personal-care products, will go to Unilever,
as part of the same transaction.  The Status trademark, used for  a deodorant for men ,
originally belonged to Sarah Lee Corp. of Downers Grove
Illinois. In November 2010 the European Union assented to
Unilever’s purchase of Sara Lee’s personal-care business.  ICC Sends Australia Warning Letter on Tobacco Label Ban  The  International Chamber of Commerce , a Paris-based
international business organization, has sent Australia’s
minister for trade a  letter opposing  that country’s mandate on
plain packaging for cigarettes.  The letter, signed by Jean-Guy Carrier, the chamber’s
secretary general, said the mandate -- set to go into effect in
July 2012 -- would “restrain trade, hamper consumer choice and
safety, subvert trademark and IP laws and increase
counterfeiting and illicit trade.”  Carrier also wrote that the removal of branding would
undermine the goals of the Australian government and its trading
partners “to foster and encourage trade and growth of markets
for Australian and global products.”  He warned that Australia’s treaty obligations, including
those stemming from the  World Trade Organization ’s Agreement on
Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, could be
negatively affected if the packaging ban goes into effect.  Kraft Warns Cooking Class to Drop “Kick the KD” Title  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , maker of Kool-Aid, Miracle Whip and Ritz
crackers, has threatened a Calgary, Alberta-based cooking school
with a trademark-infringement suit, Canada’s National Post
 reported .  The Northfield, Illinois-based food company objects to
“Kick the KD” as the title of a cooking class offered to
students at the University of Calgary, according to the National
Post.  Kraft’s packaged macaroni and cheese product is commonly
referred to as “Kraft Dinner” or “KD” in Canada, and the
food company has registered “KD” as a trademark, the newspaper
reported.  The cooking program, which was aimed at expanding students’
cooking repertoire beyond packaged food, will change its name,
and has such alternatives as “Kick the Crap Dinner” and “Boot
the Boxes” under consideration, according to the National Post.  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  Gibson Dunn Scores IP, Antitrust Specialist from Vinson & Elkins  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP hired Veronica Lewis for its IP
and antitrust practice, the Los Angeles-based firm said in a
 statement .  Lewis , who joins from Houston’s  Vinson & Elkins LLP , will
practice in Gibson Dunn’s Dallas office.  One of the IP cases she’s handled was the successful
representation of actor and director Tyler Perry in a copyright
infringement suit related to his “ Diary of a Mad Black Woman ”
film.  Among her other IP clients are a telephone equipment
manufacturer, a telephone service provider, a manufacturer of
memory chips, and several computer products manufacturers.  Lewis has an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering
from the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and a law degree
from  Harvard University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at
   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  