-- 
Valero Reports First-Quarter Profit on Rising Fuel Demand

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-04-26T20:11:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/valero-reports-quarterly-profit-as-fuel-price-margin-widens.html
Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the largest
U.S. crude refiner, reported a profitable first quarter for the
first time since 2009 as the gap between oil costs and fuel
prices more than doubled.  Net income was $98 million, or 17 cents a share, compared
with a year-earlier loss of $113 million, San Antonio-based
Valero said in a statement today. Analysts had expected the
company to earn 29 cents a share, according to the average of 13
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Maintenance delays trimmed
earnings by 20 cents a share, the company said. Valero’s shares
fell 3.7 percent.  “As long as demand holds up and we don’t see a huge
pullback in fuel demand, I think the refiners are going to have
a very good year,” said Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward
Jones & Co. in  St. Louis . Youngberg rates the shares a buy and
owns none.  Valero and other independent refiners have gained this year
as rising  onshore production  of U.S. and Canadian oil has led to
a glut at Cushing,  Oklahoma , of the crude they process into fuel.
Cushing is the pricing point for West Texas Intermediate, the
benchmark U.S. crude. WTI, as it is known, has been trading at a
discount to imported oil because a bottleneck at Cushing has
backed up supplies and limited the flow of oil to the U.S. Gulf
Coast, where many refineries operate.  Discounted Crude  WTI sold for $111.88 a barrel yesterday on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . That represented a 12 percent discount to
North Sea Brent crude, a 13 percent discount to African Bonny
light crude, and a 5.2 percent discount to Dubai Fateh crude,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The crack spread, a
measure of the difference between the cost of crude and the
price at which refiners can sell the processed fuel, more than
doubled on average in the quarter, according to Bloomberg data.  Refiners with plants near U.S. oil sources have seen per-
barrel margins rise as they take advantage of discounted crude.
Margins from Valero’s plants in the Midwest were $4.59 a barrel,
four times higher than the margin for Gulf Coast refiners, which
use more imported crude, according to the earnings statement.  Valero’s sales in the first quarter rose 42 percent to
$26.3 billion from $18.4 billion a year ago. The company
processed 2.1 million barrels of crude a day in the quarter, an
8.6 percent increase from 1.9 million in the first three months
of 2010.  “They are in much better shape than they were a year
ago,”  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York ,
said before the earnings were announced.  Hedging Losses  Valero reported a loss of $352 million on contracts used to
hedge against fuel price changes, $4 million more than they
projected last month in a statement. Maintenance delays at
refineries cost $116 million, according to the statement.  Aside from the refinery maintenance delays, the results
were positive, said Ann Kohler, an analyst at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , who rates Valero shares “fair
value” and owns none.  “If they hadn’t had the operating difficulties, they would
have had results that were ahead of street expectations,” she
said.  The company operates 14 North American refineries and
announced in March plans to acquire  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Pembroke
plant in the U.K. for $1.73 billion. Valero last month projected
per-share profit of 15 cents to 30 cents for the quarter.  Valero fell $1.09 to $28.02 at 4:08 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares, which gained 23 percent
this year before today, have 10 buy ratings from analysts, nine
holds and one sell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  