-- 
Valero, Marathon, BP Refineries Lose Power in Texas City

-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-04-26T12:21:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/valero-energy-s-oil-refinery-in-texas-city-loses-electricity.html
Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ,  Marathon Oil
Corp. (MRO) ,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and BP Plc suffered power outages and
production disruptions at their  Texas City  plants in Texas,
emergency and company officials said.  The oil refineries have a combined daily output of more
than 800,000 barrels. People in the area were urged to stay
indoors and school was canceled, according to Bruce Clawson,
director of Texas City Emergency Management.  The power failures occurred late yesterday and resulted in
flaring to burn off excess product, according to the Galveston
Daily News. The cause of the failure wasn’t known, the newspaper
said.  Valero said power had been lost to “nearly all” its Texas
City refinery units.  “All main production units at the Valero Texas City
Refinery were shut down in an orderly fashion,” Bill Day, a
Valero company spokesman based in San Antonio, said in an e-mail
today. Valero does not have an estimate for the restart of
units, Day said.  Telephone calls and e-mails before normal working hours
seeking comment from BP, Dow and  CenterPoint Energy Inc. (CNP) , a
power provider in Texas City, weren’t immediately returned.  Valero Capacity  Valero’s refinery has a capacity of 245,000 barrels a day,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Process units include a
100,000-barrel-a-day gasoil hydrotreater, a 40,000-barrel
residual oil solvent extraction unit and a 45,000-barrel-a-day
delayed coker, according to the company’s website.  The BP plant, 42 miles (68 kilometers) southeast of
Houston, has a capacity of 475,000 barrels a day, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Marathon refinery processes sweet crude into gasoline,
distillates, naphtha, light cycle oil, propane, slurry,
propylene, benzene and sulfur, according to the company’s
 website  and an annual filing. Process units at the plant include
a catalytic cracker, an alkylation unit and a reformer.  “We are working to bring the impacted units back on
line,” Shane Pochard, a spokesman for Marathon based in
Findlay,  Ohio , said in an e-mail today.  Marathon’s refinery is about 30 miles south of Houston on
Galveston Bay, near the entrance to the  Houston Ship Channel .  Clawson said a shelter-in-place was issued. Such a
declaration is made when hazardous materials may have been
released into the atmosphere, according to the U.S. Department
of  Homeland Security . Shelter-in-place means selecting a small,
interior room, with no or few windows, and taking refuge there,
according to the agency  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  