-- 
Vertex Rises After FDA Staff Finds Hepatitis Drug Effective

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-26T20:13:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/vertex-hepatitis-c-drug-proves-effective-fda-reviewers-say-1-.html
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  jumped
10 percent in Nasdaq stock market trading after U.S. regulators
said the company’s experimental hepatitis C drug cures more
patients than current therapies.  Telaprevir, combined with standard treatments, was more
effective than those drugs alone in clinical trials, Food and
Drug Administration staff said today in a  preliminary review  on
the agency’s website. Outside advisers to the FDA are scheduled
to meet April 28 to weigh the drug’s benefits and risks.  Vertex is racing Merck & Co. to become the first company in
almost a decade to win FDA clearance of a drug for the
bloodborne liver disease. Merck, of  Whitehouse Station ,  New
Jersey , and Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Vertex are among
about a dozen companies seeking to offer hepatitis C drugs with
better results and fewer side effects than standard therapy. FDA
advisers plan to review Merck’s drug tomorrow.  “Overall, the FDA review team’s independent analyses
confirmed the applicant’s primary efficacy findings and many
secondary endpoint analyses for all pivotal clinical trials,”
agency staff said of telaprevir in today’s report. Vertex’s drug
increases risks of skin rashes and anemia, they added.  Vertex rose $4.88 to $52.92 at 4 p.m.  New York  time, the
biggest gain since Feb. 23. Merck advanced 2.1 percent to $35.06
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Merck’s Drug  The agency released its preliminary findings yesterday for
Merck’s drug, known as boceprevir. That medicine boosted cure
rates among patients for whom prior therapies had failed and
among those who were new to treatment, FDA reviewers said.
Boceprevir’s side effects included increased frequency and
severity of anemia, according to the  report .  Boceprevir and telaprevir, known as protease inhibitors,
block an enzyme used by the hepatitis C virus to copy itself.
There haven’t been any clinical studies to compare whether one
drug is safer or more effective than the other.  Both medicines are likely to win FDA approval and may reach
the market in May or June, said  Geoffrey Porges , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  Combined worldwide revenue from both drugs may reach $6
billion to $7 billion within three years, Porges said last week
in an interview. While sales in  Europe  will probably be “an
even split,” telaprevir is poised to capture 70 percent to 80
percent of a U.S. market that may surpass $4 billion, he said.  No Vaccine  About  170 million  people worldwide have hepatitis C, a
bloodborne disease that can lead to liver cirrhosis and cancer,
according to the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in
Atlanta. No vaccine exists for the virus, which is commonly
spread through needle-sharing and can be transmitted sexually in
rare cases.  The current standard therapy requires almost a year of
treatment and cures less than half of patients, said  Donald
Jensen , director of the Center for Liver Diseases at the
 University of Chicago Medical Center , in a telephone interview.  That treatment combines the antiviral drug ribavirin with
peginterferon, an immune-boosting protein sold by Merck as
PegIntron and Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  as
Pegasys. The FDA approved PegIntron in 2001 and Pegasys in 2002.  Separate clinical trials showed telaprevir and boceprevir
cured more patients in less time when used in combination with
standard therapy.  Trial Results  Telaprevir cured 84 percent of patients in a Vertex-funded
trial who had previously relapsed after standard therapy,
compared with 24 percent who only took peginterferon and
ribavirin, FDA staff said in today’s report.  Another Vertex study found the drug cured 79 percent of
patients who were new to treatment, compared with 46 percent of
those on standard therapy alone, the agency said.  A Merck study found that almost half of patients on
boceprevir were able to shorten their treatment time by 12 weeks
to 20 weeks, Merck said March 31 in a statement. Merck’s
research also concluded that boceprevir combined with standard
therapy cured 64 percent of chronic hepatitis C patients for
whom previous treatments had failed, compared with 21 percent of
those who took peginterferon and ribavirin alone.  Among hepatitis C patients who were new to treatment, 65
percent of those who took boceprevir, and 38 percent on standard
therapy alone, were cured, Merck said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  