-- 
Vestergaard Frandsen Starts Voluntary Carbon-Offset Program in West Kenya

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-04-26T12:11:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/vestergaard-frandsen-starts-voluntary-carbon-offset-program-in-west-kenya.html
Vestergaard Frandsen , a maker of
disease-control products for poor nations, will start operating
a carbon-offset program in western  Kenya  that also curbs water-
borne illnesses.  The Switzerland-based company plans to distribute 970,000
water-purification systems to almost every household in Kenya’s
Western province, helping 4.5 million people to access clean
drinking water, Mikkel Vestergaard Frandsen, chief executive
officer, said in a phone interview from Lausanne on April 20.  “We expect this to have a massive impact on health and be
financed by the carbon market,” Vestergaard Frandsen said. “We
are hoping to reduce the incidents of diarrhea and respiratory
infection -- two of the biggest diseases in sub-Saharan  Africa .”  The Carbon for Water program, certified by the  Gold
Standard Foundation , a Geneva-based registry for voluntary
carbon credits, may reduce emissions of  greenhouse gases  in the
East African nation by as much as 2.5 million metric tons a
year, he said. JP Morgan Chase & Co. agreed to purchase 1.2
million tons of voluntary emission-reduction credits generated
by project in 2012, he said.  Kenya’s carbon-dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels
totalled 11.4 million tons in 2009, up from 11.2 million tons a
year earlier, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration’s Website.  The device, known as  Lifestraw Family , hangs from a wall
and uses gravity to pull water from a bucket at the top through
a one-meter (3.3-foot) hose containing a chamber with membranes
that removes bacteria, viruses and parasites.  Quenching Thirst  Each system can purify as much as 18,000 liters (4,749
gallons) of water, enough to quench the thirst of a family of
five for as long as three years, according to the company’s
website.  The Lifestraw system is meant to replace the more common
method in Kenya of firing up stoves powered by charcoal and non-
renewable fuels to boil water and kill bacteria. Chopping down
trees for charcoal production can accelerate the loss of forest
areas, which soak up carbon.  Gold Standard certified projects are intended to trade on
the global $186 million voluntary carbon market, which relies on
purchases from companies and individuals for purposes other than
meeting Kyoto or European Union regulatory targets.  Vestergaard Frandsen said he plans to recoup the up-front
investment of $25 million in Kenya through the emissions-trading
scheme and to plough back a “large part” of any additional
profits into sustaining the program over the next decade.  Kenya’s swelling urban population tends to settle in
overcrowded slums that often lack basic services including
piped, treated water or toilets. About 57 percent of Kenya’s
population has access to safe drinking water, while 42 percent
to sanitation facilities, according to 2006 United Nations data.  The company plans to start distributing the Lifestraw
Family systems in Kakamega, the capital of Western Province
bordering  Uganda , from today and complete deliveries in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 