-- 
Vevo Online Music Video Service Begins U.K. Test in First Expansion Steps

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-26T17:33:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/vevo-online-music-video-service-begins-testing-in-u-k-.html
Vevo, an online music-video service
owned by major record labels, began testing a website in the
U.K., its first expansion outside the U.S.  Music videos offered at the site will be tailored to U.K.
viewers, New York-based Vevo said today on its  website . Vevo
owners include  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music Group and  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s music division.  Vevo is starting to expand its service, which provides
advertising-supported music videos, outside  North America . U.K.
viewers will have access to all U.S. videos, live events and
interviews. The U.K. site will also provide live coverage of
performances. Vevo will provide performances from the  Bonnaroo
Music & Arts Festival , held in June in Manchester, Tennessee.  Vevo plans to introduce its site in other countries, though
has nothing specific to announce, Jennifer Press, a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The U.K. site will post new videos from Tinchy Strider and
Tom Vek, interviews with James Blake, Adele and Jessie J, as
well as performances by Florence + the Machine and Ellie
Goulding, Vevo said. The site plans to post a wedding-video
playlist in honor of the royal nuptials.  Vevo has been online in the U.S. and  Canada  since December
2009, Press said. The service is accessible on YouTube in more
than 200 countries. The U.K. site marks the first time the full
Vevo platform, including mobile, is available outside North
America, she said.  The U.S. site drew 57.1 million visitors in March, ranking
as the 18th most-visited website, according to Reston, Virginia-
based web-researcher ComScore Inc.  News Corp . has talked about
handing over control of its social network Myspace to Vevo as
part of a larger arrangement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  