-- 
Wall Street Scion Lost in China Agritech as Shorts Cry ‘Scam’

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-04-26T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/wall-street-scion-lost-in-china-agritech-as-shorts-cry-scam-.html
Jesse Glickenhaus learned about
investing in China the hard way: The first shares he bought, in
an organic fertilizer company, lost half their value in four
months after short-sellers questioned the firm’s credibility.  When Glickenhaus, 29, joined his family’s New York asset-
management company in October, he wanted to bring its stock
picking into the era of global warming. That led to a $4 million
investment in  China Agritech Inc. (CAGC) , a Beijing-based firm listed
on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange and 22 percent owned by  Carlyle
Group . It was, Glickenhaus said, a way to profit from the need
to feed China in an environmentally responsible way.  Or so it seemed. The same week in November that  Glickenhaus
& Co.  bought most of its 326,130 shares, China Agritech replaced
its auditor. Three months later, investors who had bet against
the stock attacked the firm as a scam with no real operations.
Shares tumbled to $6.88 on March 14, when  trading was halted  for
failure to file financial data, from $15.87 on Nov. 8.  “It would be easy to walk away at this point,” said
Glickenhaus, whose family company has $1.3 billion under
management. “It’s not nothing, but it’s not a big deal for us
financially. The real reason we’re fighting is because we
believe someone blatantly lied to short the stock.”  The experience has provided Glickenhaus, who has a master’s
degree in global affairs from  New York University , with a quick
education in reverse mergers by foreign companies, such as the
one executed by China Agritech. It has also vexed his
grandfather, Seth Glickenhaus, 97, who founded his first company
in 1938, still comes to the office most days and said he had
“certainly never run into a problem like this.”  ‘Backdoor Registrations’  In a reverse merger, a closely held corporation buys a
publicly traded shell company and retains its U.S. listing.
China Agritech came into being after China Tailong Holdings Co.,
a fertilizer maker founded in 1993 by Yu Chang, merged in 2005
with Basic Empire Corp., a shell company that began life in
 Nevada  in 1925 as Argyle Mining Co. and no longer had any
business operations, according to a  China  Agritech filing.  Companies that get listings on U.S. markets by reverse
mergers aren’t subject to the same scrutiny as those that make
initial public offerings, Luis Aguilar, a commissioner at the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, said in an  April 4
speech . More than 600 such “backdoor registrations” have been
done since 2007, including about 150 by firms based in China,
and a “growing number” of those companies “are proving to
have significant accounting deficiencies,” he said.  SEC Probe  The SEC set up a  task force  to look for fraud in overseas
companies traded on U.S. exchanges, with particular interest in
Chinese reverse mergers, and began a probe last year asking
auditors for information on the firms.  China Green Agriculture
Inc. (CGA)  in Xi’an and  Rino International Corp. (RINO) , a Dalian-based maker
of water-treatment equipment, said they have received inquiries
from the agency.  China Agritech hasn’t disclosed whether it’s a target, and
Shiwei Yin, a New York-based executive at Grayling, the
company’s investor-relations firm, said he couldn’t comment.
 John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said the agency neither confirms
nor denies investigations.  Glickenhaus said he didn’t check how China Agritech
obtained its U.S. listing and focused instead on the
fundamentals of the company, its new drought-resistant products
and the role of Carlyle, the Washington-based private-equity
firm that bought a stake in 2009. His confidence in China
Agritech remains unshaken, he said, even though it has fired two
auditors in four months, is late in filing 2010 financial data
and announced on April 18 that  Nasdaq  was planning to delist it.  Frayed Khakis  “I’m not going to say you shouldn’t invest in China,”
said Glickenhaus, sitting in the company’s midtown Manhattan
office, dressed in frayed khaki pants and a rumpled shirt. “In
the future, if I find a company in China, I’ll probably stick to
those that have had a major, well-known auditor for several
years. I learned it’s not that difficult to manipulate the
market in a small-cap, publicly traded Chinese company.”  On Feb. 3, a  report  titled “China Agritech: A Scam” was
published on the website of Lucas McGee Research. The 16-page
paper, whose authors were identified only as holders of short
positions, or bets against the company, said China Agritech
“has no valuable technology, intellectual property, customer
relationships or capital assets.”  Site Visits  Site visits to company facilities “found each one empty,
idle and without production equipment,” with the exception of
one plant in Beijing, the report said. Financial data supplied
to Chinese regulators and obtained by “legal agents” who
weren’t identified, showed that China Agritech had 2009 revenue
of $7.6 million. While the company said it had almost $46
million of cash on its books and unaudited 2010 revenue of $119
million, the report concluded that revenue last year couldn’t
have exceeded $7.5 million.  Lucas McGee is described on the  website  as an investor with
more than 10 years’ experience in  Asia . There was no response to
e-mails or messages left at a  Hong Kong  number on the website.
McGee isn’t registered as an analyst with Hong Kong’s Securities
and Futures Commission.  The report ricocheted on blogs, including Seeking Alpha and
Bronte Capital, and was cited by Bloomberg News. Shares fell 9
percent on Feb. 3. Three lawsuits citing the report and seeking
class-action status claimed shareholders had been defrauded.  YouTube Rebuttal  Glickenhaus, who teaches a course at NYU called “The
Effect of  Climate Change  on the Global Environment,” decided to
see for himself. He flew to China on March 4 and visited several
fertilizer plants and retail outlets with company executives. He
 posted his own report  on the Glickenhaus & Co. website on March
24 and a video on YouTube showing busy factories to refute the
short-sellers, whom he accused of being “negligent in their
disregard for the truth.”  That only led to further attacks. John Hempton, chief
investment officer of  Bronte Capital , a Sydney-based  fund
manager  who had a short position in China Agritech, wrote in
 blog posts  and e-mails to Glickenhaus that the  New York  investor
had been duped. Glickenhaus was taken to a state-owned
fertilizer-bagging plant at an address different from one listed
in China Agritech filings, Hempton said in an interview.  “I had a lawyer resident in Shanghai stake out their
facilities,” Hempton said in a telephone interview. “There was
no evidence of operations.”  Glickenhaus said he arranged his trip through China
Agritech. He also said he hadn’t spoken with any customers or
contacted the firm’s banks to check on its finances.  Beijing Factory  At a China Agritech factory in the Pinggu district of
Beijing, a two-story building about the size of two football
fields with the company’s name displayed outside, Bloomberg News
observed about a dozen workers leaving by bicycle at 5 p.m. on
April 18 as four guards stood at a security gate.  At another facility about a mile (1.6 kilometers) away,
identified in filings as a research and development site, only
an outline of the company’s name appeared outside. A lone guard,
who identified himself as Mr. Qin, said operations had ceased
about a month and a half earlier. Eddie Fan, a spokesman for
China Agritech in Beijing, said the firm had moved its research
operations to another location closer to the factory and would
disclose the address when it files its annual accounts.  On March 13, four days after Glickenhaus returned to New
York, China Agritech said in an  SEC filing  that it was involved
in a dispute with Ernst & Young Hua Ming, the auditing firm it
hired in November to replace Crowe Horwath LLP. Ernst & Young
had asked for “an independent investigation in order to verify
certain transactions and balances recorded on the company’s
financial statements and records” for 2010 and that the
accounting firm had determined “it may not be able to rely on
management’s representations,” according to the filing.  Trading Halt  China Agritech said it had fired Ernst & Young and begun an
investigation. It also said Zheng Wang, a Carlyle executive who
sat on the company’s board, had resigned.  Christopher Ullman, a Carlyle spokesman, declined to
comment, as did  Charles Perkins , a spokesman for Ernst & Young.  Trading in the shares was halted March 14 and hasn’t
resumed. China Agritech disclosed on April 18 that it received a
letter from Nasdaq saying the exchange intended to delist the
company, a decision the fertilizer maker has appealed. Wayne Lee, a spokesman for Nasdaq in New York, declined to comment.  New Auditor  The company has retained TroyGould PC, a Los Angeles law
firm, and BDO China Li Xin Da Hua Certified Public Accountants
Co. to conduct an investigation. On April 12, it hired a new
auditor,  Simon & Edward LLP , a Los Angeles affiliate of BDO
International, a network of accounting firms. The company hasn’t
said when it will release its 2010 financial statements.  Zhang Min, China Agritech’s board secretary, said at the
company’s headquarters on the third floor of a Beijing
commercial complex on April 7 that she couldn’t comment beyond
statements the firm had already made.  Rodman & Renshaw LLC, a New York-based brokerage that
underwrote a $23 million share offering for China Agritech last
April, said it was confident the documents it issued in
connection with the sale were accurate.  “Rodman stands by its due diligence procedures,” said
Erik Knettel, a company spokesman.  James Glickenhaus, 60, Jesse’s father and Glickenhaus &
Co.’s general partner, blamed inept China Agritech executives
for mishandling the situation.  “Management has acted incompetently, there’s no question
about that,” he said, referring to the firing of the auditors.  $4 Million Ferrari  He also said short-sellers were trafficking in
misinformation. Short positions in China Agritech increased to
more than 2.9 million shares in March, or 23 percent of the
shares publicly available, from about 2.3 million at the
beginning of November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have a long history of standing up to this kind of
thing, and we’re not going to lie down now,” said James
Glickenhaus, who owns a  custom P4/5 Ferrari  that he said cost $4
million and has produced several Hollywood action movies,
including  “The Exterminator,”  a 1980 film about a Vietnam
veteran turned vigilante.  For James Glickenhaus, China Agritech is the start of a
long tutorial for his son, “like sending him to business
school,” he said. For Jesse Glickenhaus, who has since bought
300,000 shares in another agriculture company, CVR Partners LP,
a  Sugar Land , Texas-based maker of nitrogen fertilizers that had
an IPO April 7, China Agritech has already paid off.  “I went into this with an open mind,” Glickenhaus said.
“I didn’t expect to enjoy it as much as I have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Sterngold in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  