-- 
Winton Replaces Moore Among Top 20 Hedge Funds as Managed Futures Advance

-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 
2011-04-26T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/winton-replaces-moore-among-top-20-hedge-funds-as-managed-futures-advance.html
Winton Capital Management LLC, the
hedge fund started by David Winton Harding, bumped Louis Moore
Bacon’s Moore Capital Management LLC from the list of the top 20
 hedge funds  after assets surged by 34 percent.  The $20 billion Winton Capital, which is based in  London ,
climbed to 15th place from 22nd, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg as of April 7. Moore Capital in  New York  fell to 22nd
from 20th six months ago, with assets unchanged at $15 billion.
London’s  Man Group Plc (EMG)  became No. 1 at $69 billion with its Oct.
14 purchase of GLG Partners Inc.  Harding, 49, uses computer-driven trading models known as
managed futures, which appeal to investors seeking access to
their money and diversification from stocks, according to Daniel Celeghin, a partner at Casey, Quirk & Associates LLC, a
consulting firm in Darien,  Connecticut . The funds, also known as
commodity-trading advisers, took in net deposits of $39.1
billion in the year through March, the most of any strategy,
said TrimTabs Investment Research Inc. and BarclayHedge Ltd.  “What’s very attractive is they’re totally uncorrelated to
equities and liquid,” Celeghin said. “In some cases, as little
as 24 hours, at most a week, you can get your capital back. As
for actual historic return, over time you get a pretty solid
high single digit, low double digit.”  More than 18 percent of industry assets were subject to
withdrawal restrictions after funds suffered record losses
during the 2008 global financial crisis, according to Singapore-
based consultant GFIA Pte.  Goldman Sachs Stake  Harding founded Winton Capital in 1997 and sold a 10
percent stake to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Petershill Fund in
2007, when Winton had $10 billion. He co-founded the AHL
Diversified Plc computerized-trading program in 1987. Man Group
acquired a majority stake in AHL in 1989, and bought the rest in
1994.  Managed-futures funds aim to profit from pricing
inefficiencies by investing in futures and option contracts for
equity and fixed-income securities, currencies or commodities.  Futures and options are derivatives, contracts whose value
is derived from underlying securities or linked to specific
events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather. Hedge
funds are mostly private pools of capital whose managers
participate substantially in the profits from their speculation
on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  The Winton Futures Fund, the firm’s largest at $7.3
billion, climbed 3.8 percent this year through April 22,
according to a person briefed on the returns, who asked not to
be named because the information isn’t public. The fund gained
15 percent in 2010.  Macro Strategy  Funds following the strategy fell an average of 0.5 percent
in the first quarter and advanced 7.3 percent last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Industrywide, funds
returned 2.2 percent in the first quarter and 9.8 percent last
year, based on the Bloomberg aggregate hedge-fund index.  Moore’s flagship, the $7.4 billion Moore Global Investment
Fund, declined 0.6 percent this year through April 7, according
to a person briefed on the returns, who asked not to be named
because the information is private. The fund advanced 4.8
percent in 2010. The $4.6 billion Moore Macro Managers Fund rose
0.2 percent in the first quarter and 12 percent last year, the
person said.  Moore Capital  is a global macro fund, a strategy whose
managers aim to profit from broad economic trends. Macro funds
returned 0.4 percent in the first quarter and 3.6 percent in
2010, according to Bloomberg data. Bacon, 54, founded  New York- 
based Moore Capital in 1989.  “They’re not trying to raise a ton of money,” said Emma Sugarman, head of the U.S. capital-introductions group at BNP
Paribas SA in New York, which helps hedge funds find investors.
Moore aims to raise capital primarily from institutional
clients, she said.  GLG Takeover  Man Group’s assets surged to $69 billion from $39.5 billion
after the firm acquired GLG Partners for $1.6 billion to try to
reduce its dependence on Man AHL Diversified, which had
accounted for more than a third of its assets under management.
AHL declined 4.9 percent this year through April 20 after
gaining 16 percent in 2010.  The largest 20 hedge funds’ assets increased 10 percent to
$582.5 billion from $528.2 billion six months ago, Bloomberg
data show.  Funds with $5 billion or more pulled in 51 percent of new
investor money in the first quarter, according to Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research Inc.  “A lot of large institutions, they’re only comfortable
with the really big hedge funds,” Celeghin said. The large
funds have “all built up institutional fundraising and client
service and infrastructure.”  Paulson Passes Brevan  BlackRock Advisors, a unit of New York-based  Blackrock
Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager, leaped five positions
to No. 8 as assets climbed 17 percent to $26.6 billion.  Paulson & Co., the New York firm that grew 13 percent to
$36 billion, overtook Brevan Howard Asset Management LP for the
fourth spot. London-based Brevan Howard is now fifth with $32.3
billion.  The hedge-fund industry exceeded $2 trillion for the first
time at the end of the first quarter, marking a recovery from
record investment losses and client withdrawals during the
financial crisis.  “Hedge funds are an attractive investment in an uncertain
market,” said David Shukis, director of hedge-fund research and
consulting at Boston-based Cambridge Associates LLC, an adviser
to institutional investors. Pension funds are contributing most
to the growth of the industry, he said.  Bumping Bridgewater  The number of public pension funds investing in hedge funds
rose 50 percent in four years as investors sought to preserve
capital and diversify portfolios, according to London-based
Preqin Ltd.  Hedge funds added $102 billion of assets in the first three
months, according to Hedge Fund Research. Investment performance
accounted for $70 billion of the increase and deposits from
investors contributed $32 billion, the firm said.  Man’s ascendancy knocked Bridgewater Associates LP to
second place in the rankings, even as Westport, Connecticut-
based Bridgewater grew 3.3 percent to $62 billion. JPMorgan
Asset Management, a unit of New York’s  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  with
$45.5 billion, slipped to third from second.  Highbridge Capital Management LLC, the hedge fund that’s
also owned by JPMorgan, dropped three positions to ninth place
after assets decreased 7.4 percent to $25 billion. The New York-
based firm named Chief Operating Officer Todd Builione to the
newly created position of president this month as it aims to
strengthen its institutional business.  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC (OZM) , the New York-based
fund run by Daniel Och, climbed to sixth place from eighth by
growing 9.1 percent to $28.7 billion.  Below is a ranking of the 20 largest hedge funds by assets
under management (in billion $):  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Laurie Meisler at   lmeisler@bloomberg.net  