-- 
World Bank's Support for Transparency Groups Is Hampered, Report Finds

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-04-26T22:42:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/world-bank-s-support-for-transparency-groups-is-hampered-report-finds.html
The  World Bank ’s effort to help
citizen groups seeking to boost government transparency is
hampered by its practice of channeling aid through the
administrations of developing nations, a study found.  The Washington-based lender needs consent from the
governments to provide money to groups that are pushing for
greater accountability, according to the non-profit organization
 Partnership for Transparency Fund .  “The World Bank can only lend to governments, they deal
with the executive branch, so you’re asking the executive branch
if the World Bank can provide money to institutions that can
hold it accountable,” Vinay Bhargava, one of the authors and a
former World Bank official, said in a telephone interview today.
“There is an inherent constraint in what the World Bank can
do.”  International financial institutions are rethinking their
approach to policy advice after uprisings toppled the presidents
of Tunisia and  Egypt , countries they had praised for their
economic policies. World Bank President Robert Zoellick this
month said his agency should consider increasing support to
civil-society organizations.  After the World Bank expanded its lending to include
private businesses in addition to governments, “now it may be
time to invest in the private, not-for-profit sector -- civil
society -- to help strengthen the capacity of organizations
working on transparency, accountability, and service delivery,”
Zoellick said in an April 6 speech in  Washington .  ‘Right Intentions’  Bhargava said Zoellick’s speech “articulates the right
intentions, but it doesn’t go far enough in terms of saying that
we are going to work to try and clear the ways of supporting
civil society.”  David Theis, a World Bank spokesman, said today the lender
agrees that civil society groups and local communities “are
important to development success, and this is why they already
have a major and increasing role in our projects.”  The non-profit group’s report pointed out that many such
organizations may not want to receive funding from the bank if
the money comes through the authorities for fear it may
undermine their independence. At the same time, there’s no
alternative mechanism yet to provide funding, it said.  The report makes eight recommendations for the bank to take
a leadership role in supporting groups in the field of so-called
“demand for good governance.”  One is to find ways to provide resources without the
necessity of working with governments, for example through a
multi-donor  trust fund  or an independent grant facility, the
report said. The funding mechanism should be independent from
both countries’ authorities and “from direct management by the
World Bank and other donors whose programs might be monitored,”
according to the report.  The bank should also widely share its experience, it said.  The report was commissioned and funded by the World Bank’s
Development Grant facility,  Partnership for Transparency Fund 
said. Bhargava said there had been no editorial constraint on
the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  