-- 
Yemen Parties to Meet in Saudi Arabia to Sign Accord for Saleh Departure

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u   N a s r
-- 
2011-04-26T13:58:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/yemen-parties-to-sign-saleh-departure-accord-as-police-fire-on-protesters.html
Yemeni opposition and ruling party
officials will sign an accord for President Ali Abdullah Saleh
to step down within 30 days and guarantee him immunity, said
Mohammed Basendwah, head of the Preparatory Committee for
National Dialogue.  The agreement, brokered by ministers from the Gulf
Cooperation Council, or GCC, will be signed early next week in
 Saudi Arabia , Basendwah said in a telephone interview from
Sana’a. His committee, created in 2008 to help navigate an
earlier political crisis, includes opposition, business and
regional leaders. The accord came as anti-government protesters
clashed with police today in two Yemeni cities.  “It will be early next week in  Riyadh ,” Basendwah said.
The accord “calls for the president to step down in 30 days.”  GCC officials are seeking to avert an escalation of the
violence in Yemen or a deadly military divide like the one in
 Libya . Rising social unrest also threatens to strengthen al-
Qaeda as it seeks to use Yemen, the poorest Arab nation, as a
base from which to destabilize neighboring Saudi Arabia, the
world’s largest exporter of crude oil.  The GCC includes the  United Arab Emirates ,  Bahrain , Saudi
Arabia, Oman, Qatar and  Kuwait . Saudi Arabia’s work week begins
on Saturday and the accord may be signed then, Basendwah said.
 Al Arabiya  reported officials may be invited to Riyadh as soon
as tomorrow.  Third Forced Out  Saleh would be the third leader forced from office since
popular unrest spread through the Middle East, resulting in the
ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  in  Egypt  and Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
 Tunisia . In March, Saleh, 69, agreed to an opposition proposal
to hand over power by the end of the year, then backtracked by
saying he’d stand down only after a newly elected government was
formed and power was transferred to safer hands.  This time, Saleh has agreed to the GCC plan that would give
him immunity in exchange for ceding power, Tarik al-Shami,
spokesman at the ruling General People’s Congress, said on April
23. Saleh would transfer power to a deputy within 30 days and
hold elections 60 days after that, said al-Shami.  A weak central government in Yemen also risks mirroring the
situation in Somalia across the  Gulf of Aden , where there hasn’t
been a functioning administration since 1991. Somalia has become
a breeding ground for pirates who attack shipping lanes.  The Joint Meeting Parties, a coalition of six opposition
groups, has agreed to the GCC plan. They wouldn’t participate in
a national unity government under Saleh during the days he’d
remain in power, Mohammed al-Sabri, a leader in the opposition,
has said.  More Protests  More than 100 protesters have been killed since Feb. 11,
when anti-government protests began according to Majed al-
Madhaji, a spokesman at the Arabic Sisters Forum for Human
Rights in Sana’a. Tensions escalated last month when police and
snipers killed 46 demonstrators in Sana’a, the capital,
prompting several military and government officials to abandon
Saleh’s regime.  Protests in the Yemeni cities of Taiz and Hodiedah erupted
in violence today as thousands of anti-government protesters
clashed with police.  In Taiz, at least one protester was killed and five injured
when police opened fire, said Bushra al-Maktari, an opposition
activist, in a phone interview. In the port city of Hodiedah, at
least eight were injured in a similar attack, said Abdulhaiz
Majaab, a political activist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  