-- 
Yum! Brands Will Offer to Buy All Outstanding Shares of Little Sheep Group

-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 
2011-04-27T05:34:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/yum-brands-will-offer-to-buy-all-outstanding-shares-of-little-sheep-group.html
Yum! Brands Inc., owner of the KFC
and Pizza Hut fast-food chains, will seek to buy all outstanding
shares in hotpot-restaurant operator  Little Sheep Group Ltd. (968)  to
further expand in China.  Yum may bid for all shares that it doesn’t already own or
are held by parties acting in concert with it, according to
separate releases from Yum! and Little Sheep yesterday. No
formal offer has yet been made, Yum said in a statement.  “Buying Little Sheep will be a very good complement to
Yum’s business as it’ll be the first Chinese-style non-fast food
chain for Yum, with great expansion potential around the
world,” Titus Wu, an equity analyst at DBS Vickers  Hong Kong 
Ltd. with a “buy” rating on Little Sheep, said by telephone
today.  Louisville, Kentucky-based Yum, with about half of its
locations outside the U.S., said in February that sales at
Chinese stores open at least 12 months increased 8 percent in
the fourth quarter. The company, which also owns Taco Bell, drew
about a third of revenue last year from  China , where it competes
with McDonald’s Corp.  Discussions are at “a preliminary stage only” and
“subject to obtaining all necessary regulatory approvals for
the transaction,” Little Sheep said in a filing to the Hong
Kong stock exchange yesterday.  Little Sheep  The U.S. restaurant operator increased its Little Sheep
stake to 27.2 percent from 20 percent last year. Little Sheep’s
2010 net income gained 21 percent, according to a company filing
last month.  Little Sheep controlling stockholder Possible Way
International Ltd. holds 29.9 percent, or 308 million shares,
according to its statement. Yum is deemed to have an interest in
this stake through a 2009 agreement with Possible Way. Little
Sheep Chairman Zhang Gang owns 2.4 percent of the company.  Baotou, Inner Mongolia-based Little Sheep operates 179
self-owned restaurants and another 274 through franchises in
mainland China, according to its 2010 annual report. The company
plans to open 40 outlets this year.  The purchase “would further solidify Yum’s position as the
leading restaurant company in fast-growing China,” and so will
be good news, provided it takes place at a “reasonable” price,
Mark Kalinowski, a research analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC, wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Kalinowski, who owns Little Sheep stock in his personal
account, recommends buying Yum shares.  Fast Food Competition  Yum operates more than 3,200 KFCs in over 700 Chinese
cities, and has 520 Pizza Hut eateries in the country, according
to its website. McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant
operator, has about 1,300 outlets in China.  Little Sheep will continue to be suspended from trading in
Hong Kong pending a further announcement on the possible buyout,
it said. The stock gained 0.4 percent to HK$5 on April 21, the
last day of trading. It’s increased 1.8 percent this year,
against a 4.6 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Leung in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  