-- 
Zeltia Cancer Drug Fails to Win Backing of U.K. Cost Agency

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-04-26T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/zeltia-cancer-drug-fails-to-win-backing-of-u-k-cost-agency.html
Zeltia SA (ZEL) ’s Yondelis, in
combination with an older medicine, failed to win the backing of
the U.K.’s health-cost agency in final guidelines on the
treatment of ovarian cancer.  Zeltia didn’t submit evidence comparing Yondelis with
platinum-based chemotherapy, which is the treatment choice for
patients whose cancer responds to platinum, the  National
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence  said today in an e-
mailed statement. The agency, known as NICE, advises the U.K.’s
state-run medical system on which treatments have enough benefit
to justify the expense.  The Madrid-based company had offered to fund the drug, also
known as trabectedin, after the fifth cycle of treatment, NICE
said. That proposal didn’t make Yondelis cost-effective enough
to recommend its use by the  National Health Service , since the
benefits aren’t clear, the agency said. Zeltia didn’t appeal
draft guidelines published last month that didn’t recommend
Yondelis in combination with a treatment known as pegylated
liposomal doxorubicin, the agency said.  “We cannot be sure that trabectedin extends patients’
lives for longer than the most routinely used treatments,” said
Andrew Dillon, NICE’s chief executive officer, in the statement.  About 6,800 women are diagnosed with ovarian cancer in the
U.K. each year, and two-thirds die within five years, according
to the  Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists . About
70 percent of cases are diagnosed at an advanced stage, in part
because the symptoms, including bloating and abdominal pain,
aren’t specific to the disease, the physicians’ group said in a
statement.  Blood Test  Primary-care doctors should offer a blood test to women
with symptoms of  ovarian cancer  and, depending on the results,
follow up with an ultrasound scan, NICE said today in a separate
statement. The new approach will help detect the illness at an
earlier stage, the Royal College said.  Yondelis, based on a chemical found in sea squirts, works
by damaging the genetic material in tumor cells, making them
unable to grow and spread. The intravenous drug won European
Union approval in 2009 to treat relapsed ovarian cancer.  NICE had been considering the combination for patients
whose cancer has returned six months or more after initial
chemotherapy. Ovarian tumors recur after initial treatment in
about 80 percent of patients, and about 40 percent of those
women would have been eligible for Yondelis, had the product
been recommended, according to NICE.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , owns
the marketing rights for Yondelis outside Europe and  Japan , and
helps fund research.  Zeltia Chairman Jose Maria Fernandez Sousa began
experimenting with marine organisms in 1986, and discovered that
powerful poisons used by immobile creatures to fend off enemies
could also kill cancer cells. The company reported sales of
153.5 million euros ($224.3 million) in 2010, with Yondelis
bringing in 72.1 million euros. Zeltia also makes household
chemicals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  