-- 
Zynga Is Said to Poach Electronic Arts COO Amid Gaming Rivalry

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-04-26T22:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/zynga-is-said-to-poach-electronic-arts-coo-amid-gaming-rivalry.html
Zynga Inc., the online-game maker,
has hired John Schappert, who resigned as  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) ’s
chief operating officer yesterday, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  Schappert, who spent much of his career at Electronic Arts
and had a stint at  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , will take a senior role at
Zynga, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the hire hasn’t been announced. Schappert’s last day at
Electronic Arts was yesterday, the company said in a regulatory
filing.  Zynga, the maker of the "CityVille" and "FarmVille" games,
has poached several executives from rival Electronic Arts to
fill its ranks with video-game industry veterans. It hired game
studio executive Steve Chiang last year, and in 2008 brought in
game designer Mark Skaggs. Zynga adviser Bing Gordon, a partner
at the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers,
was formerly the chief creative officer at Electronic Arts.  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Zynga,
declined comment on whether Schappert had been hired.  John Riccitiello, Chief Executive Officer of  Redwood City ,
California-based Electronic Arts, does not plan to replace
Schappert, said Jeff Brown, a spokesman for the company.  In a memo to employees today, Riccitiello announced a
reorganization that leaves Nancy Smith, head of publishing,
Barry Cottle, head of mobile games, and Dave DeMartini, senior
vice president of Electronic Arts’ global online unit, all
reporting directly to him.  Electronic Arts Shops  Electronic Arts, the second-largest video-game publisher,
purchased the U.K.-based publisher of “Angry Birds” in October
to add titles made for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad. In November
2009, Electronic Arts bought Playfish, then the second-largest
maker of games on Facebook Inc., for as much as $400 million to
gain a bigger foothold in casual online play.  Schappert came to Electronic Arts in 1998 when the game
giant acquired his development company, Tiburon Studios, in
Maitland,  Florida . He left in 2007 to head Microsoft’s Xbox Live
unit before returning to Electronic Arts in 2009 as president
and chief operating officer.  Schappert’s hiring by Zynga was previously reported by
Reuters.  Zynga’s estimated worth passed Electronic Arts’ stock-
market value in October. The online games startup is worth $8.19
billion according to SharesPost Inc., an exchange for shares of
privately held companies. Electronic Arts is worth $6.76 billion
on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Zynga is in talks to raise funding from T. Rowe Price Group
and  Fidelity Investments  at a valuation of $10 billion, two
people familiar with the matter said in February. Earlier this
month, the company hired former  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  executive
Debra Chrapaty to be its chief information officer.  Electronic Arts slipped 31 cents to $20.23 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. It has climbed 24
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 