-- 
‘Twilight’ Is No. 1 Film for 3rd Weekend With $16.9 Million

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-12-05T05:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/-twilight-remains-no-1-for-3rd-weekend.html
“The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn
Part 1,” remained the top movie at U.S. and Canadian theaters
for a third straight weekend, collecting $16.9 million in ticket
sales for Summit Entertainment LLC.  “The Muppets,”  Walt Disney Co.’s (DIS)  film featuring the
children’s characters created by Jim Henson, held on to second
place with $11.2 million on a weekend in which no new films
opened in wide release,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement.  “Breaking Dawn,” the latest in the series based on the
Stephenie Meyer vampire novels, is the second film this year to
claim the No. 1 spot for three straight weekends, according
researcher to Box Office Mojo. Disney’s “The Help” held first
place over three weekends in August and September. U.S. cinemas
do about 20 percent of the year’s business between mid-November
and New Year’s, Hollywood.com said.  “This is the first time any movie from the ‘Twilight’
franchise has been No. 1 for three weeks in a row,” said Gitesh
Pandya, editor of boxofficeguru.com in  New York . The movie was
able to hang onto the top spot because there were no new
openings and because “it’s the biggest franchise out there,”
he said.  ‘The Muppets’  “Breaking Dawn,” about vampire  Edward Cullen  and his not-
yet undead girlfriend  Bella Swan , has taken in $247.3 million in
the U.S. and  Canada  since its Nov. 18 release, according to
Hollywood.com. The film, made for about $110 million, was
expected to have weekend sales of $15.4 million, the estimate of
Box Office Mojo.  The “Twilight” series is scheduled to end a year from now
with “Breaking Dawn Part 2.” The first three movies in the
series have had  worldwide sales  of $1.8 billion, according to
Box Office Mojo.  In “Breaking Dawn Part I,” Bella, played by  Kristen
Stewart , marries Edward, portrayed by Robert Pattinson. She
becomes pregnant and is targeted for death by werewolves.  Taylor Lautner  returns to co-star as  Jacob Black , whose unrequited love
for Bella is tested by his commitment to his werewolf clan.  In “The Muppets,” three fans learn that an oil man wants
to drill under the characters’ old theater. They seek out the
former stars Kermit the frog, Miss Piggy and Gonzo, now leading
separate lives. Steve Whitmire,  Eric Jacobson  and Dave Goelz
provide the three main Muppet voices, respectively. The film
also features  Jason Segel , Amy Adams and  Chris Cooper .  ‘Hugo’  “Hugo,” from  Viacom Inc. ’s  Paramount Pictures , was third
with $7.63 million. The movie is Oscar winner  Martin Scorsese ’s
first 3-D family film.  The picture tells the story of a boy, played by Asa
Butterfield, who lead a secret life in the walls and clock tower
of a Paris train station. Based on the book by Brian Selznick,
it is also a tribute to silent film pioneer Georges Melies,
played by Ben Kingsley, who runs a toy kiosk at the station.  The  National Board of Review  on Dec. 1 named “Hugo” the
best film of the 2011 and Scorsese best director.  “Hugo” is “looking like a word-of-mouth hit,” Pandya
said. “It’s got a long life ahead of it.”  “Arthur Christmas” stayed in fourth with $7.35 million.
The animated film exposes Santa’s high-tech operation hidden
beneath the North Pole, while telling the story of a family in a
state of comic dysfunction, according to a  Sony Corp. (6758)  summary of
the picture. The picture features the voices of James McAvoy as
Arthur and Hugh Laurie as Steve.  Revenue Falls  “Happy Feet Two,” an animated comedy from  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. studio, dropped to fifth from third with $6
million. The film features the tap-dancing penguin Mumble, who
is vexed by his son Erik’s lack of rhythm. It features the
voices of Elijah Wood,  Robin Williams ,  Brad Pitt  and  Matt Damon .  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 4.31 percent to
$74.9 million from a year earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic box-office receipts this year have declined 3.71
percent to $9.47 billion. Attendance is down 4.55 percent.  “The weekend after the Thanksgiving holiday is typically
one of the worst of the year,” Pandya said. “We were expecting
sales to plummet and that’s exactly what happened.”  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Dec.
2 and Dec. 3 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  