-- 
Aussie, Kiwi Dollars Advance as Italy Budget Measures Boost Yield Demand

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-12-04T23:31:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/aussie-kiwi-dollars-advance-as-italy-budget-measures-boost-yield-demand.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars rose after  Italy ’s prime minister proposed austerity and
growth measures before a summit on Europe’s debt crisis,
supporting demand for riskier assets.  New Zealand’s currency was 0.4 percent from a three-week
high against the yen before a report forecast to show services
industries in the U.S. expanded in November. Gains in the so-
called Aussie may be limited before the  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia  holds a policy meeting tomorrow.  “The market is pleased Italy managed to get the austerity
package passed and we’re seeing some improvement in sentiment,”
said Emma Lawson, a currency strategist at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “We’ll be watching data and announcements
heading into the European meeting. We’re neutral” on the Aussie
and kiwi this week, she said.  Australia’s dollar advanced 0.4 percent to $1.0253 as of
10:28 a.m. in Sydney from the close in  New York  on Dec. 2. The
currency rose 0.4 percent to 80.02 yen. New Zealand’s currency
strengthened 0.5 percent to 78.09 U.S. cents from 77.73 U.S.
cents on Dec. 2, when it touched 78.40, the highest since Nov.
14. It climbed 0.6 percent to 60.94 yen.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  announced 30 billion
euros ($40 billion) euros of austerity and growth measures
yesterday, a day earlier than planned, as he seeks to cut the
euro-region’s second-biggest debt and prevent a breakup of the
euro. The premier will present the package, which includes more
than 12 billion euros in spending cuts, to both houses of
parliament today.  U.S. Economy  European Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs
Olli Rehn said yesterday a summit of the region’s leaders on
Dec. 9 should move toward speeding up a permanent rescue fund,
the European Stability Mechanism, because “that would be a
strong signal that the euro area is able to safeguard economic
stability.” Failing to act would mean  Europe ’s economy would
enter a recession, Rehn said in an interview on Finland’s YLE
TV1 yesterday.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  for services
industry in the U.S. rose to 53.8 last month after 52.9 in
October, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News ahead of the Tempe, Arizona based-group’s data
today.  “We have seen improvement in U.S. economic data across the
board, so we expect that to continue,” said NAB’s Lawson.
“That should help confidence in the global economy and help
currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  