-- 
BB&T, Equity Residential, GSV Capital: U.S. Equity Preview

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-12-04T16:08:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/bb-t-equity-residential-gsv-capital-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in U.S. trading tomorrow.  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  : BB&T may rise as the Winston-Salem,
North Carolina-based bank’s asset quality improves and its
earnings increase, Barron’s reported in its “The Trader”
column.  Equity Residential (EQR)  : Equity Residential, the
largest publicly traded U.S. apartment landlord, said it will
acquire a 26.5 percent stake in closely held Archstone for $1.33
billion in cash.  GSV Capital Corp.  (GSVC US): The U.S. investment
Fund, which owns stakes in venture-based companies such as Zynga
Inc. and Facebook Inc., may be attractive to investors who can
tolerate some risk as more social media, green technology and
education companies prepare to go public, Barron’s reported.  Guess?  (GES US): The clothing retailer may be attractive
after concern over a sales slowdown in Europe and the U.S.
pushed the share price below $30, Barron’s reported in its “The
Trader” column.  Intralinks Holdings Inc. (IL)  : Discovery Group LLC
reported a 5.8 percent stake in the software maker and may seek
talks with management, the board and shareholders.  Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. (MRX)  : The  drug company 
that makes wrinkle treatments and acne medicine forecast 2011
profit of as much as $2.39 a share, compared with the average
analysts’ estimate of $2.35.  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX)  : Moody’s Investors Service changed
its outlook for the U.S. office-supplies retailer to stable from
negative, citing expectation that the Naperville, Illinois-based
company’s operating performance is likely to improve.  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  : The world’s largest office
products company may rise to as high as $22 in the next year
if the economy improves and companies spend more on office
supplies, Barron’s reported.  SuccessFactors Inc. (SFSF)  : SAP AG agreed to buy
SuccessFactors for $40 a share, or 52 percent more than the
closing price on Dec. 2, to extend its reach in the market for
cloud computing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 