-- 
Brazil’s Former World Cup Soccer Captain Socrates Dies in Hospital at 57

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-12-05T05:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/brazil-s-former-world-cup-soccer-captain-socrates-dies-in-hospital-at-57.html
Former Brazil captain Socrates, who
played in two World Cup soccer tournaments and had 25 goals in
63 games for his country, has died. He was 57.  The Brazilian Football Confederation said  in a statement 
that Socrates died at a hospital in  Sao Paulo  yesterday. He had
been diagnosed with an intestinal infection.  A minute of silence was held in Socrates’s honor before
yesterday’s matches, the federation said. He was buried at the
Bom Pastor cemetery in Ribeirao Preto.  “Brazil has lost one of its most beloved sons,” President
 Dilma Rousseff  said in a statement. “Apart from being a soccer
idol, Socrates was a champion of the people.”  Socrates, whose full name was Socrates Brasileiro Sampaio
de Sousa Vieira de Oliveira, was born in February 1954. He
started his soccer career at Botafogo before joining Corinthians
in 1978, a club where he made 297 appearances in six years and
won the Campeonato Paulista three times.  Socrates, who often had a beard and played wearing a
headband, was “one of the greatest players” to appear for the
club, Corinthians  said on its website . Rousseff praised Socrates
for opposing  Brazil ’s military dictatorship during his career as
a player.  A one-year stint in  Italy  at Fiorentina was followed by
moves to Flamengo and Santos back in Brazil.  ‘Thank you, Doctor’  His international debut came in 1979 and included
appearances at the 1982 and 1986 World Cups. A midfield
playmaker, he was unable to win the tournament, although his
younger brother Rai was a member of the successful 1994 squad.
Socrates had 25 goals in 63 games for his country, with 41 wins.  He returned in 2004 at age 50, playing with the English
club Garforth Town for one match.  Outside the sports arena, Socrates was a physician and had
practiced medicine after retiring as a player in 1989.  “Thank you, Doctor,” Corinthians said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  