-- 
Brookfield Intends to Give CWCapital an Offer for Stuyvesant Town by April

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-12-04T16:15:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/brookfield-intends-to-give-cwcapital-an-offer-for-stuyvesant-town-by-april.html
Brookfield Asset Management Inc (BAM/A) . aims
to have an offer by April, in partnership with tenants, to buy
Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village in  New York City  from
the special servicer that controls the complex, an executive of
the firm said.  The Toronto-based investment firm expects to have a sense
of how receptive CWCapital Asset Management LLC, which
represents holders of about $3 billion of debt on  Manhattan ’s
biggest apartment complex, well before then, Barry Blattman,
Brookfield senior managing director, told hundreds of tenants
yesterday at a meeting of their association. The meeting was the
first with residents since the association announced its
alliance with Brookfield on Nov. 30.  “Our arrangements are such that we are shooting to make a
bid to CW before April,” Blattman said. “But I’m hoping we can
have an active dialogue with them between now and then.”  The tenants association has been working on buying the 80-
acre complex, which runs from 14th Street and 23rd Street on
Manhattan’s East Side, since owners Tishman Speyer Properties LP
and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  defaulted in January of 2010. The group aims
to convert most of its more than 11,000 units to condominiums,
while retaining its historical affordability to middle-class
residents and satisfying CWCapital’s debt holders.  Brookfield and the association plan to offer tenants three
options: buy their units at a higher insider price with no
restrictions on reselling, a lower price with restrictions, or
remain as tenants of Brookfield. The plan depends on a large
majority choosing to buy their units. They hope to attract
government subsidies to help keep the rental units affordable.  Buyers, Stability  Meredith Kane, an attorney with  Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton
& Garrison LLP  who has been working with the association on its
bid, said buyers at the higher price would face a “flip tax”
that would fall over time to preserve community stability.  City Councilman Daniel Garodnick, a lifelong Stuyvesant
Town and Peter Cooper Village resident who has been working with
tenants on the offer, warned attendees against competitors who
hope “to tempt you with a juicy offer.” He specifically
denounced a rival group, Guterman-Westwood Partners LLC, which
sent letters to tenants saying they would be better off with
their plan to make the complex into a cooperative instead of a
condominium.  “They claim they are making you the offer of a lifetime,
and that the tenants association didn’t want you to know about
it,” he said. “They’re like the ads on late night TV --
extremely misleading and designed to sow mistrust and doubt.”  Stores, Parking Spaces  Guterman principal Gerald Guterman, reached at his home by
telephone, said his group is planning to charge residents the $3
billion to pay off CW’s debt holders, plus another $100 million
to $200 million to cover closing costs -- essentially selling
the complex to them at cost. His group plans to make its profit
from the complex’s stores and parking spaces, he said.  Tenants would pay under his plan no more than what they
paid in rent in 2005, before some rents were raised under
conditions that were later ruled improper by state courts, he
said. He said he planned to follow his letter by setting up a
website where tenants can ask questions about his alternative.  “I’m committed to pay $3 billion and it’s real money,”
Guterman said. “The No. 1 one responsibility of CW is to its
bondholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  