-- 
Builders Shrink ‘Great Australian Dream’ as Housing Falters

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-12-05T13:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/builders-shrink-great-australian-dream-as-housing-falters.html
Australian homebuilders are
responding to declining demand and higher land costs by reducing
the sizes of houses and lots.  Stockland, Australia’s biggest listed home builder, has cut
the average size of plots in its house-and-land packages by
almost 20 percent to 481 square meters (5,177 square feet) over
three years.  Australand Property Group (ALZ) , a unit of  Singapore ’s
 CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , is redesigning homes as it shrinks them, while
 Peet Ltd. (PPC) , which has 70 housing estates, is building on smaller
lots with shared barbecue and exercise areas to compensate.  Higher prices for land and materials and increasing wages
and taxes are pushing costs higher at a time the prices
developers can charge are restrained as the developed world’s
most expensive  housing market  cools.  Home prices  in Australia’s
eight capital cities dropped 4 percent in the year to Oct. 31,
according to RP Data, the most since the real estate researcher
began compiling the figures in 1999.  “There’s an affordability crisis in Australia, and one way
of keeping the price point where people can afford it is to
reduce the size,” said Peter Sherrie, national president of
industry group the  Urban Development Institute of Australia .
“With some innovative house designs, developers are able to
provide a perfectly acceptable dwelling on a much smaller lot.”  Pursuit of the Great Australian Dream -- ownership of a
stand-alone house on a quarter-acre piece of land -- has seen
households double their debt load as a proportion of disposable
income in the past 15 years to 154 percent in the quarter ended
June 30, according to central bank figures. That’s higher than
the 133 percent ratio Americans accumulated at the height of the
U.S. sub prime-mortgage boom.  Australian Dream  The Great Australian Dream is a phrase derived from the
American Dream, which equates prosperity and freedom with land
ownership. In Australia, it encapsulates an idealized suburban
lifestyle of grassy backyards, swimming pools and barbecues.  At 243.6 square meters, Australian houses are the biggest
in the world, according to an August report by Commonwealth
Securities Ltd., a unit of  Commonwealth Bank of Australia . The
average house in the U.S. was 222.2 square meters in 2010,
 Canada ’s homes averaged 177 square meters and  Japan ’s 132 square
meters, it said.  Stockland has decided to build smaller homes closer to
public spaces rather than with big backyards, said Andrew
Whitson, general manager for Victoria state at the company. The
Sydney-based company has increased the proportion of homes on
lots less than 450 square meters to 50 percent of all its
housing projects, from 27 percent three years ago, it said at
its full-year results presentation in August.  Urban Sprawl  “The push is driven not only by affordability, but also to
cater to our growing population and to make more efficient use
of land,” Whitson said.  Stockland (SGP)  climbed 1.2 percent to A$3.45 in Sydney today.  In the nation’s most populous state of New South Wales, a
record 49 percent of home approvals in the past year have been
for medium-density dwellings including units, townhouses and
semi-detached houses, Bankwest’s first housing density report
showed. Nationally, the number was 38 percent.  “What we are seeing are NSW households choosing different
types of housing to suit our modern lifestyle,” said Vittoria
Shortt, retail chief executive at Bankwest, a unit of
Commonwealth Bank. “Although the majority of households in NSW
still live in detached houses, access to employment, transport
and amenities are driving growth in medium density housing.”  With about  two-thirds  of  Australia ’s 22.8 million people
living in the nation’s eight capitals, cities have historically
expanded out, rather than up, to fit a growing population.  Low Density  Melbourne , the nation’s densest city, had 530 people per
square kilometer (0.4 square mile) and  Sydney , the nation’s most
populous city, had 380 as of June 2010, a March statistics
bureau report shows. That compares with about 10,194 people per
square kilometer in  New York , according to the city’s department
of planning, 6,017 in  Tokyo  and 7,126 in  Singapore , according to
statistics bureau data for each city.  State governments are now pushing developers to build
closer to urban centers. Authorities require between 50 percent
and 70 percent of new housing estates to be located within
existing city limits, are restricting land releases on city
fringes, and are demanding developers help pay for roads,
transport and other amenities when building outside the limits.  Smaller Lots  “Developer charges, infrastructure charges are
escalating,” said Andrew Harvey, senior economist at the
 Housing Industry Association , Australia’s biggest residential
building organization. “They have to pay for schools and bike
paths and a range of other gold-plated facilities, and that gets
passed on in its entirety to home buyers.”  That’s helping push up the price of land plots even as they
shrink. The  average plot of land  in Australian capital cities in
the June quarter cost A$214,656 ($219,600), up 5 percent from a
year ago, HIA data shows. The size has fallen 13 percent in
Sydney to 525 square meters, 16 percent in  Melbourne  to 513
square meters, and 27 percent in Perth to 451 square meters from
a peak about eight years ago.  New home sales  fell 8 percent in the three months to Oct.
31, according to HIA. Sales of detached houses slumped 8.4
percent, while apartment sales declined 5.1 percent.  Meanwhile, building costs are also rising. The price of
 building materials  increased 2.1 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, and  construction wages 
climbed 3.4 percent, according to statistics bureau data.  Gyms Not Bedrooms  Australand is reconfiguring its homes as it downsizes them,
replacing a third or fourth bedroom with smaller spaces that
better suit a gym, media room or other use, said Rod Fehring,
executive general manager of the Sydney-based company’s
residential division.  “The number of households with one or two people in them
has been rising, but we as an industry are still consistently
designing three- and four-bedroom homes,” Fehring said.
“Australand is moving away from the conventional definitions of
bedrooms to activities that those spaces are used for, so they
can have more flexible uses.”  Australand stock added 1.5 percent to A$2.74.  More than three-quarters of Australian households had more
bedrooms than were needed to accommodate the occupants,
according to a statistics bureau  report  released Nov. 16.  World’s Costliest  Australian homes cost 6.1 times the gross annual median
household income, compared with 3 times in the U.S. and 5.2
times in the U.K., according to a report by Belleville,
Illinois-based consulting company  Demographia .  The median price for houses and apartments across all
regions in Australia was A$316,000 as of Oct. 31, according to
 RP Data . That compares with a median of $171,475 in the U.S.,
based on figures from property website  Zillow.com .  At Perth-based Peet, which owns, syndicates and jointly
develops it projects, the push for smaller homes has been driven
by both increasing development costs and demand from buyers
seeking smaller dwellings that are easier to maintain, Managing
Director Brendan Gore said.  “This includes many people who now don’t want a large
backyard which requires time-consuming maintenance, but would
like landscaped parks and open spaces nearby,” Gore said.  While Peet’s average lot size has dropped as much as 20
percent in some areas over the past three years, community
amenities such as exercise areas or barbecue facilities have
increased, he said. Peet shares added 1.3 percent to 81 cents.  As the market sours, landed properties are losing value
faster than apartments.  House prices  in Australian capitals fell
4.7 percent in October compared with a year earlier, while
apartment values slipped 1.7 percent, according to Brisbane-
based RP Data.  Maximizing Yields  “The trend will absolutely be toward more smaller lot
houses,” said Tim Lawless, director of research at RP Data.
“There is demand for it based on affordability pressures.
Developers want to maximize their yields, and potential buyers
want to max the bang for their buck.”  Sydney-based  Monarch Investments  has reduced the size of
its homes to between 160 square meters and 170 square meters,
from 250 square meters two years ago, Chief Executive Officer
Peter Icklow said. It is splitting normal 460 square-meter lots
in half on two of its current projects, and building homes with
smaller rooms and only one-car garages, he said.  “I can see the size of houses going down to 130 square
meters,” Icklow said. “It will keep going down until people
can afford them. The Great Australian Dream isn’t gone; it’s
just a smaller dream now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  