-- 
China Rejects U.S. Panel Ruling That Solar Imports Harm Industry

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-04T02:06:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/china-rejects-u-s-trade-panel-s-ruling-that-solar-imports-harm-industry.html
China said a preliminary ruling by a
U.S. trade panel that imports of Chinese solar panels are
harming the domestic industry shows the country’s “inclination
to trade protectionism.”  The U.S. International Trade Commission on Dec. 2 took the
first step toward imposing added tariffs on Chinese solar
imports, voting unanimously in  Washington  on a petition by Bonn-
based  SolarWorld AG (SWV)  that called for antidumping and
countervailing duties. The commission will now hold a full
investigation.  “The ruling was made without sufficient evidence showing
U.S. solar panel industry has been harmed,” China’s  Ministry of
Commerce  said in a  statement  on its website yesterday. The
decision was taken “regardless of defense opinions from Chinese
firms, as well as opposition from the U.S. domestic industries
and other stakeholders, which prominently shows the U.S.’s
strong inclination to trade protectionism and for which China is
deeply concerned.”  The Chinese government uses cash grants, raw-materials
discounts, preferential loans, tax incentives and currency
manipulation to boost exports of solar cells, according to
SolarWorld’s Oct. 19 complaint to the ITC and the U.S. Commerce
Department. SolarWorld, a maker of solar modules, is seeking
duties to offset the practices.  The ITC is examining possible economic harm to SolarWorld
from Chinese imports, while the department determines the
penalty for Chinese companies that illegally dump products.  The department may decide on preliminary remedies as early
as Jan. 12.  Tariffs may raise the cost of  modules  by 10 percent, Aaron Chew, a senior analyst at New York-based Maxim Group LLC, said
in a Dec. 2 research note.  Trade Remedy  “The  United States  should avoid abusing trade remedies
which will affect bilateral trade and mutually beneficial
cooperation between China and U.S. enterprises in the new energy
sector,” the Chinese Commerce Ministry said in its statement.  China exported $3.5 billion of solar goods, including solar
cells, to  North America  last year, according to the China
Chamber of Commerce for Import & Export of Machinery and
Electronic Products. North America is China’s third-biggest
solar export market, following Europe and  Asia  in 2010,
accounting for about 11 percent of China’s global solar exports.  Unfair Competition  Democratic lawmakers wrote a letter on Dec. 2 to President
 Barack Obama  urging an investigation into the Chinese imports,
which they say don’t fairly compete with domestic products.  Imports of Chinese solar products have more than quadrupled
from 2008 to 2010, lawmakers said in the letter. Chinese imports
control half the market, benefiting from government-provided
loans, cheap land, tax breaks and an undervalued currency, the
lawmakers, including Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, and
Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, said.  SolarWorld and six other companies that haven’t been
publicly identified have requested tariffs of 100 percent,
saying Chinese solar manufacturers benefit from unfair
government support.  The U.S. group asked the federal government to slap duties
on more than $1 billion of Chinese imports.  China’s Commerce Ministry said on Nov. 25 that it would
begin its own investigation into American state support for
 renewable energy  and would consider the stimulus programs of the
states of Washington, Massachusetts, Ohio and  California , and
two others in  New Jersey .  Renewable Energy  Representatives of Chinese companies told the commission
Nov. 8 that tariffs sought by U.S. competitors would make it
more difficult to expand the use of renewable energy.  China  and
the U.S. are among nations encouraging use of alternative energy
sources, driving costs down across the board, so it would be
unfair to penalize China, they told the panel.  SolarWorld said Sept. 2 that it was cutting almost 200 jobs
at its facility in Camarillo, California. Solyndra LLC, a
California maker of solar panels that received $535 million in
U.S. loan guarantees, blamed cheap Chinese imports for its
collapse. Solyndra filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 6.  “There’s a serious concern going forward with the current
situation,” Gordon Brinser, the president of SolarWorld’s U.S.
unit, said in a Dec. 1 interview before the ruling. “SolarWorld
is a strong company, but others in the industry are
struggling.”  Objective Analysis  The Commerce Ministry said yesterday it hopes the “U.S.
side will objectively analyze the reason why some of U.S. solar
panel firms lack competitiveness”.  Attorneys for Suntech Power Holdings Co. Ltd. and  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL) , two of the biggest China-based makers of crystalline
silicon panels, told the trade commission Nov. 8 that added
tariffs would increase the cost of solar panels, which would
then be passed on to the consumer.  Chinese solar manufacturers have said they may shift
manufacturing to other countries to avoid tariffs if they’re
imposed.  Executives at four of China’s biggest solar-panel makers
have said they don’t receive special treatment from the Chinese
government and that they pay higher  interest rates  for loans
than U.S. or European competitors.  SolarWorld has said that China’s rapid growth in solar
products is possible only with government support as it seeks to
push out U.S. competitors by selling products for less than
cost.  “If they continue at the rate they are going, it’s not a
sustainable situation,” Brinser said.  Chinese Credit  China provided $30 billion in credit to its biggest solar
manufacturers last year, about 20 times the amount provided by
the U.S.,  Jonathan Silver , executive director of the Energy
Department’s loan program, told a congressional panel Sept. 14.
Silver resigned on Oct. 6.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , based in Tempe,  Arizona , and SunPower
Corp., based in  San Jose , California, may benefit from higher
sales prices stemming from the tariffs, Ahmar Zaman, an analyst
at Minneapolis-based Piper Jaffray Companies Inc., wrote in a
Dec. 1 research note.  First Solar isn’t involved in the ITC case, spokeswoman
Melanie Friedman wrote in an e-mail Dec. 2. SunPower is neutral,
Chief Executive Officer Thomas Werner said in a Nov. 30
presentation at the Baird Clean Technology Conference.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  