-- 
China, EU Seek to Avoid Blame for Expiring Kyoto Pact

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-12-05T07:25:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/china-europe-maneuver-to-avoid-blame-for-expiring-carbon-pollution-limits.html
China  and the European Union today
will set out alternative proposals for extending limits on
 greenhouse gases , seeking to avoid the blame for undermining the
only international pact limiting them.  Envoys from Beijing and Brussels last week joined in
setting conditions for further curbs on fossil fuel emissions
after the restrictions in the Kyoto Protocol expire next year.
Today they step up pressure on envoys from 194 nations to back
their view of how to carry on the fight against global warming.  The positions are so detailed that they reduce flexibility
for an accord at the United Nations climate talks this week, and
neither delegation wants to be accused of sabotaging efforts to
protect the environment, said Andrew Light, coordinator of
climate policy at the Center for American Progress, a Washington
research group with White House ties.  “No one wants to be viewed as the last party standing over
the corpse of the only international climate treaty that
requires some parties to cut their emissions,” Light said in an
interview at the meeting in Durban,  South Africa . “It’s viewed,
rightly or wrongly, as the only great success of the UN climate
process.”  European Union Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard briefs
reporters at 10 a.m. in Durban today. Xie Zhenhua, who leads the
Chinese delegation, follows at 12:30 p.m. Tomorrow, they’re
joined by at least 10 heads of state including Prince Albert II
of  Monaco  and the heads of Ethiopia and  Fiji  for the final week
of talks that conclude on Dec. 9.  China vs Japan  China is leading a group of developing nations including
Brazil and  India  asking industrial nations to sign up to their
second set of commitments under Kyoto. The developing countries
want to avoid binding targets of their own before 2020. Japan,
Canada and  Russia  have ruled extending the treaty.  The 27-nation EU has said it will extend Kyoto only if all
countries agree to a “road map” pointing toward legally-
binding targets by 2015 coming into force no later than 2020.
That would require developing nations, which don’t have
obligations under Kyoto, to take on mandatory targets. It wants
to bring both the U.S. and China, the two biggest polluters,
into a climate treaty.  “China has always said that they’re open to a legally
binding treaty,” Hedegaard said yesterday at a reception in
Durban. “The interesting part is will there be an agreement
that would also legally bind China?”  China’s Position  China, which until this week has resisted any talk of
taking on a target, signaled last week it would consider one
after 2020 if five conditions were met. Xie, at a briefing with
environmental groups yesterday, said he wanted the EU and other
developed countries first to extend Kyoto commitments. He also
wants them to make good on aid pledges, implement agreements on
technology transfer and other measures.  “If all the conditions are met, we’re open to the
process,” said Xie, who is vice chairman of the National
Development and Reform Commission. “For the new framework after
2020, we must continue the  Kyoto Protocol , there must be a
second commitment period. If there’s no second commitment period
it’s not meaningful for us to talk about new framework. This is
the first condition.”  While the comments were nothing new for delegates who
follow global warming talks closely, they were the most clear
any senior government official from Beijing has been about the
matter in such a public forum. The Chinese demands also are hard
to square with the ones from the EU, reducing the flexibility of
negotiators to reach agreement this week, said Wendel Trio,
director of the Climate Action Network.  ‘Hard as Ever’  “That’s the first time that their conditions have been set
so clearly,” Trio, whose environmental lobby group is following
the talks, said in Durban. “Despite some reports that China may
be softening its stance, Xie’s line was as hard as ever. It’s
difficult to expect a compromise on the post-2012 framework.”  The shift in the role played by  developing countries  in
fighting  climate change  began at the UN talks in Bali in 2007,
when they agreed to take on so-called nationally appropriate
mitigation actions to reduce greenhouse gases, said Han Seung- soo, former Prime Minister of  South Korea , and a former special
envoy on climate change for UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon.  “There has been a remarkable change of heart on the part of
the emerging and developing economies,” Han, now chairman of the
Global Green Growth Institute in  Seoul , said in an interview in
Durban. China’s declaration “will certainly make many other
major developing countries come to the table in a more
cooperative mood.”  ‘High Risk’  The U.S., which never ratified Kyoto, is attempting to
avoid the debate about the future of the pact and press
delegates to adopt a new framework for global warming that would
require developing nations to cut emissions too.  Jonathan Pershing , a U.S. envoy, last week ruled out signing up to the EU
plan, saying officials in  Washington  couldn’t promise to adopt a
binding treaty without seeing specifics of the plan first.  “There is a high risk that at the end of Durban the EU
will blame the U.S. and major economies of developing countries
for not adopting the amendments of the second commitment
period,” said Martin Kaiser, head of international climate
politics at Greenpeace. “The argument of a level playing field
for all major emitting countries is just an argument of European
governments not to raise the mitigation ambition at home.”  Christiana Figueres, the UN diplomat leading the talks,
said yesterday she’s happy with progress at the talks and
optimistic that countries can agree to extend Kyoto.  “What I’m most happy about is the very clear progress that
has been made on the second commitment period of the Kyoto
Protocol,” said Figueres, executive secretary of the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change. “The discussion is not
whether we’ll have a second commitment period, but how.”  With assistance from Alex Morales in Durban. --Editors:
Alessandro Vitelli, Todd White.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  