-- 
Chow Tai Fook May Beat Prada to 2011 Hong Kong Record in $2.8 Billion IPO

-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 
2011-12-05T07:24:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/chow-tai-fook-jewellery-2-8-billion-ipo-may-top-hong-kong-offers-in-2011.html
Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. 
aims to raise as much as HK$22 billion ($2.8 billion) in what
may be  Hong Kong ’s biggest initial public offering this year as
luxury-goods companies tap growing affluence in China.  The jewelry chain with  revenue  greater than Tiffany & Co.,
set a price range of HK$15 to HK$21 for the 1.05 billion new
shares on sale, according to a prospectus released yesterday.
The proposed deal may give Chow Tai Fook a price-earnings ratio
almost double Tiffany’s. The Hong Kong-based jeweler, controlled
by real-estate billionaire Cheng Yu-tung, will set the price
Dec. 9.  “We are confident that the company will continue to
benefit from China’s robust retail sales growth in the long
term, and we’ll focus on expanding our retail network in Greater
China,” Henry Cheng, executive chairman and  Cheng Yu-tung ’s
son, said during a video conference call in Hong Kong yesterday.  The offering will test investors’ appetite as  Prada SpA 
dropped since first trading in June after raising $2.5 billion,
including stock sold under the overallotment option, in Hong
Kong’s biggest IPO this year. Sales of luxury items in China
will more than double to about 180 billion yuan ($28 billion) in
2015 compared with last year, McKinsey & Co. estimates.  The jeweler’s shares will start trading Dec. 15, according
to a term sheet.  ‘Big Blessing’  Companies have raised more than $16.2 billion from initial
public offerings this year in Hong Kong, compared with more than
$50.3 billion for the same period last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. As many as 20 companies plan to offer shares in
Hong Kong this month, said Lawrence Fok, chief marketing officer
for Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd.  Chow Tai Fook , with more than 1,400 outlets in  China ,
forecasts net income of more than HK$6.3 billion in the year
ending March 31, according to the prospectus. Earnings per-share
on a pro forma basis will be at least 63 Hong Kong cents, it
said.  The deal would value the company at 33 times expected
earnings, assuming the public offering prices at the high end of
its range and only 1.05 billion shares are sold, according to
Bloomberg calculations using data from the prospectus. That
valuation is higher than local and overseas competitors.
Tiffany’s stock is at about 18 times forecast earnings, while
Hong Kong traded jewelers Luk Fook Holdings International Ltd.
and Chow Sang Sang Holdings International Ltd. are respectively
at 14 and 13 times forecast profit.  Founded in 1929 in the southern Chinese city of  Guangzhou ,
the company was named after founder Chow Chi Yuen. “Tai Fook”
means “big blessing” in Chinese.  Chow Tai Fook  is initially selling 1.05 billion new shares,
of which 95 percent will be allocated to an international
offering. The remaining 5 percent will go to a Hong Kong public
offering that starts tomorrow and ends Dec. 8.  Loan Repayment  The stock being offered will account for 10.5 percent of
the company’s enlarged share capital, according to the
prospectus. Shareholders, including the Cheng family and company
executives, will have the option to sell 210 million shares, as
well as the equivalent of up to 15 percent of the new shares
being offered via an overallotment option to cover additional
demand.  Half of the funds raised by the company will be used to buy
raw materials and inventory, 36.5 percent will go toward
repayment of loans and 5 percent will be spent on buying
properties and renovating stores, according to the prospectus.
The remainder will be used to buy production and research and
development equipment, build an office in Shenzhen and for
working capital.  Cheng said one of the reasons the 82-year-old family-run
business is seeking a public listing is to improve transparency
and make it more independent.  More Transparency  “The business will be under greater scrutiny from company
directors and regulators after the listing, and it will operate
in a much more transparent and systematic manner,” Cheng said.
“I hope to expand the family business beyond the current
generations. Seeking a public listing is the only way.”  Retail  sales (TIF)  in China climbed and average of 17 percent in
the first 10 months of this year, according to government data.
Sales will more than double to 40.5 trillion yuan in 2015 from
15.4 trillion yuan in 2010, according to a KPMG report released
in April.  In Hong Kong, mainland visitors splurging on high-end
shoes, watches and jewelry have driven monthly retail  sales  to
record highs. Chow Tai Fook made 56 percent of its  revenue  in
its last fiscal year in mainland China, with the rest coming
from Hong Kong, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  About 110 companies are seeking approval to list in Hong
Kong, according to Fok of Hong Kong’s stock exchange operator.
About 40 have permission to go ahead and 10 to 20 companies,
mostly from mainland China, are likely to complete their share
sales by the end of the month, he said.  Bigger Than Tiffany  Revenue for Chow Tai Fook jumped 53 percent to HK$35
billion, or about $4.5 billion, in the year ending March 31,
2011, while Tiffany’s sales rose 14 percent to $3.09 billion in
its fiscal year ended January, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Hong Kong-based company’s gross margin of 28.33 percent
was about half that of Tiffany’s, the data show.  Chow Tai Fook has 12.6 percent of China’s jewelry market,
and a 20 percent share in Hong Kong and Macau, the company said
in its prospectus, citing a report from research firm Frost &
Sullivan Inc. It sources rough diamonds from companies including
Rio Tinto Plc and Diamond Trading Co., the distribution arm of
 De Beers .  Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC Holdings
Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  