-- 
Cocoa Slump Signaling Hershey Chocolate Profit: Chart of the Day

-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 
2011-12-04T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/cocoa-slump-signaling-hershey-chocolate-profit-chart-of-the-day.html
A slump in cocoa futures to a 32-
month low may mean profit gains for chocolate makers including
 Hershey Co. (HSY)  that raised prices for consumers earlier this year
as ingredient costs escalated.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows cocoa has plunged 41 percent
from a 32-year high of $3,775 a metric ton on ICE Futures U.S.
in New York on March 4, while the Hershey, Pennsylvania-based
food company company rallied 23 percent this year to $57.84 a
share in New York, the biggest gain among the 14 companies
tracked by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Packaged Foods Index.  Slowing economic growth has done little to curb Americans’
appetite for chocolate. U.S. sales rose 6.7 percent in the 52
weeks ended Oct. 30, with prices on average climbing 6 cents to
$1.56 per unit, according to SymphonyIRI Group, a Chicago-based
research firm. Hershey, the maker of Hershey’s bars, Kit Kat and
Reese’s, raised prices 9.7 percent in March.  “Pricing is holding up,” said Robert Moskow, an analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York , who has an “outperform”
rating on Hershey shares. “The stickiness in pricing is
definitely a good thing” for the profit outlook, Moskow said.  Cocoa futures have dropped on forecasts for record crops
from  Ivory Coast  and  Ghana , the world’s biggest growers. The
commodity settled at $2,228 on Dec. 2. The impact on companies
may not be immediate because many purchase supplies months in
advance to hedge against the risk of a jump in prices, Moskow
said. His 12-month price target for Hershey is $68.  “Hershey increased prices just before cocoa spot prices
began to fall precipitously, so this is working out well in
their favor,” Ken Shea, a senior industry analyst at Bloomberg
Industries in Princeton,  New Jersey , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s intuitive to think that their margins are
going to benefit over the next few quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  