-- 
Cotto Beats Margarito With TKO When Doctors Call Fight in 10th Round

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-12-04T06:51:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/cotto-beats-margarito-with-tko-when-doctors-call-fight-in-10th-round.html
Puerto Rican boxer Miguel Cotto saved
his junior middleweight world title and got a measure of revenge
with a technical knockout against  Mexico ’s Antonio Margarito,
who three years ago handed him his first career loss.  The fight was called three seconds into the 10th round by
ringside doctors who examined Margarito’s right eye, which had
been damaged a year earlier by boxer Manny Pacquiao. Cotto
landed 86 punches on the eye, drawing blood in the third round
of the fight at New York’s Madison Square Garden.  “I won the fight,” Cotto said in a televised interview
after he walked over to Margarito’s corner and stared at his
opponent. “I just wanted to look at him and taste my victory on
him. He means nothing to me.”  Cotto was guaranteed $5 million and a share of the HBO pay-
per-view proceeds, while Margarito received $2.5 million and a
portion of the profits, ESPN reported. The sell-out crowd of
21,215 produced a live gate of about $3.4 million.  Cotto, in pre-fight interviews, said he planned to
concentrate on the area where Pacquiao fractured Margarito’s
orbital bone which required cataract surgery and insertion of a
lens.  Margarito (38-8) was distressed when the match ended early,
insisting he could continue.  No Vision  “They were asking me about my eye,” he said through an
interpreter. “I told them how many numbers I had up. I knew
from now on they were out to protect him because I was building.
I hurt him. Look at his face. He hits like a girl.”  Dr. Anthony Curreri said the medical staff was concerned
that the boxer’s eye had been closed for three rounds.  “In the end, he had no vision in that eye,” Curreri said.
“I think it would have been dangerous for him to go out there
without any visual field.”  Cotto (37-2) was winning the fight on the judges’
scorecards going into the 10th round. Cotto connected on 51
percent of his power punches; Margarito landed 33 percent.  “I earned a good rest,” Cotto said. “In a couple of
weeks, we’ll talk about boxing.”  Cotto, 31, weighed in at 152 1/4 pounds. Margarito, 33,
weighed 152 1/2 pounds and had a three-inch (7.6-centimeter)
advantage over his opponent at 5-foot-11.  Margarito handed Cotto his first loss with a technical
knockout at the MGM Grand in  Las Vegas ,  Nevada , on July 26, 2008.
Cotto’s corner called the fight in the 11th because of the
battering the boxer was taking.  Illegal Wraps  Six months later, Margarito was found to be wearing illegal
hand wraps before his bout with Shane Mosley. Margarito removed
the plaster-like pads and re-wrapped his hands before going in
the ring, where he lost in the ninth round. He was suspended for
16 months.  Ever since then, Cotto has accused Margarito of using the
illegal wraps during their first match. Margarito has denied he
ever knew that the bandages under his gloves were illegal.  Cotto, ranked No. 1 in the world in the 154 division by
“The Ring,” has tallied his only other loss against Filipino
boxer Pacquiao who pummeled the Puerto Rican in 2009.  Margarito sustained a beating from Pacquiao in 2010 and has
undergone a series of operations during the past year to repair
damage to his right eye. The  New York  State Athletic Commission
declined to issue Margarito a license to fight until medical
experts cleared him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  