-- 
Croatia’s New Government Faces ‘Unpopular’ Economic Choices

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-12-05T15:51:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/croatian-voters-go-to-polls-fixed-on-economic-recovery-corruption-fight.html
Croatians elected a four-party
opposition bloc that needs to trim the  budget deficit  and reduce
corruption to bring the nation out of a recession and into the
European Union in 2013.  The  Social Democrats  and three other parties that make up
the Alliance for Change, or Kukuriku, won 80 of parliament’s 151
seats, the electoral commission reported with all votes counted.
The ruling  Croatian Democratic Union , which had governed for 17
of the last 21 years, took 47, with smaller parties winning the
rest. Results are expected to be finalized on Dec. 7, after
challenges to the count are heard. Social Democrat leader  Zoran Milanovic , a 45-year-old lawyer and former diplomat, will be the
next premier.  The Alliance campaigned on pledges to bring fiscal order
back to the government and spark a tourism-dependent economy out
of a recession. The nation had its  credit rating  reduced a year
ago to BBB-, one step above junk at  Standard & Poor’s , which
cited a “deteriorated fiscal position and continuously weak”
external financing.  “On paper, the new government’s economic program seems to
be in the right direction, but we have to wait for their budget
proposal,” said Michele Napolitano, Associate Director at  Fitch
Ratings , which has Croatia assessed at BBB-, its lowest
investment grade. It’s “too soon” to say how the new
government will impact Croatia’s credit rating, he added.  Croatian five-year credit-default swaps, which are used to
insure bondholders against the risk of non-payment, were at a
three-week low of 523 basis points at 1 p.m. in Zagreb, down
from 527 basis points on Dec. 2 and a year-high 589 basis points
on Nov. 25. Still, Croatian debt is the third-most expensive to
insure against default in eastern  Europe  after Hungary and
Ukraine.  Slow Recovery  Croatia is taking longer than its Balkan neighbors to climb
out of a recession that began more than two years ago. GDP rose
0.6 percent in the third quarter from the same period a year ago
and the October jobless rate, at 17.4 percent, is more than
double compared with EU members  Germany  and the  Czech Republic .  In neighboring  Slovenia , the governing party was also
defeated as Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic’s Positive Slovenia
scored a surprise victory in a general election yesterday with
voters looking for a change in leadership to tackle rising debts
and a faltering economy.  The Croatian  central bank  forecasts GDP to rise 0.5 percent
this year and Napolitano said Fitch sees the expansion slowing
in 2012, adding urgency to creating fiscal policies that will
keep the situation from deteriorating. Once Milanovic gets a
mandate from the president to form a government, he has 30 days
to form a Cabinet and submit it to parliament for approval.  Unpopular Decisions  “Fitch’s real GDP growth forecast for the next year is 0.3
percent, much lower than the 2.5 percent on which the current
budget is based,” he said by phone from  London . “Therefore,
with weaker revenue growth, the government would need to cut
expenditures, particularly in pensions, ministerial budgets and
public sector wages. These are not popular decisions to take.”  The Alliance for Change said during the campaign it would
cut waste from the pension system and lure investments in
energy, transport and tourism to create jobs and revive the
economy. The measures would cut the budget gap, now at 6.2
percent of GDP, in half over the next four years as the country
integrates into the EU.  Strong Mandate  Milanovic’s strong mandate “should allow the government to
work efficiently,” Hrvoje Stojic, chief analyst at Hypo Alpe-
Adria-Bank d.d., a local unit of  Austria ’s Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank
International AG said by phone in Zagreb. “But this is also a
Pyrrhic victory, as they inherit an economy in a prolonged
structural depression.”  Stojic forecasts the economy will contract 2 percent next
year, while Zdeslav Santic, chief analyst at Soc-Gen Splitska
Banka d.d., said it will contract 2.1 percent. Central bank
Governor Zeljko Rohatinski said in October growth should be
“mild” and similar to this year.  Financing Help  Milanovic should act “quickly” to agree with the
 International Monetary Fund  on a financing accord to bolster the
budget and set strict spending policies as it “would further
inspire markets” and may “begin to mark  Croatia  out over other
regional credits which have been perhaps foot-dragging both in
terms of closing agreements with the IMF, but more broadly in
terms of reform momentum,” Tim Ash, head of emerging-markets
research at RBS in London, said in an e-mailed note.  The Alliance, which adopted the rooster’s cry of  Kukuriku 
as its name during the campaign, includes the  Croatian People’s
Party , the  Istrian Democratic Party  and the  Croatian Party of
Retirees . It wants to sell non-controlling stakes in state
companies, abolish the 20 percent tax rate on reinvested profit
and add a tax on dividend payouts.  The government must “very quickly” reduce the budget gap
by about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion), execute structural
reforms in the public sector, and reform the tax system so that
a drop in payroll taxes is offset by a VAT hike, which imitates
the impact of a  currency depreciation ,’’ Sotjic said.  “We hope that the rating agencies will wait to see the
first steps of the new government,” Branko Grcic, the new
government’s top economic strategist, said by phone.
“Obviously, we are not in the best situation, as the price of
borrowing is now 7 percent and higher. We will urgently start
with the reforms and with the fiscal consolidation, so we can
use the funds to generate growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  