-- 
Cuomo Proposes New York Tax Overhaul

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-12-05T18:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/cuomo-to-propose-infrastructure-fund-legal-gambling-to-create-state-jobs.html
New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  wants
to overhaul the state’s tax system, use public-private
partnerships to fix infrastructure and legalize gambling as he
faces a deficit of as much as $3.5 billion next fiscal year.  “The state’s deficit is only a symptom and as governor, I
want to address the illness,” Cuomo wrote in an opinion article
e-mailed to media outlets yesterday. “The essential problem we
face is a struggling economy.”  State revenue is “collapsing,” Cuomo said last week, amid
shrinking Wall Street bonuses and job cuts in the finance
industry, which accounted for more than 20 percent of wages paid
by state businesses in 2010. New York has projected a $350
million deficit this fiscal year.  New York , the third-most-
populous U.S. state, had an unemployment rate of 7.9 percent in
October, compared with 9 percent nationwide.  To promote job growth, Cuomo said he wants to create an
infrastructure fund to finance the repair and development of
highways, bridges and major construction projects, without
specifying the amount of money involved. Legalizing gambling
would also help create jobs, he wrote.  The plan could become the cornerstone of a special session
agenda if lawmakers and the 53-year-old, first-term Democrat can
agree on the details. Senate Republicans, who hold a majority,
were told to return to Albany for a conference meeting on Dec.
7,  Scott Reif , a spokesman for Majority Leader  Dean Skelos , said
in an e-mail. The majority-holding Assembly Democrats were told
to come to Albany for a meeting tomorrow, Michael Whyland, a
spokesman for Speaker Sheldon Silver, said Dec. 2.  Tappen Zee Bridge  Last month, Cuomo said he had discussed with labor unions
the possibility of using their private pension funds to invest
in infrastructure projects such as building a new Tappen Zee
Bridge, he said. The bridge, which spans the  Hudson River  and
connects the lower Hudson Valley region with New York City,
could cost as much as $6 billion to replace, Cuomo said.  Legalizing gambling would help “recapture revenue that is
currently being lost to other states,” Cuomo wrote. Indian
casinos already operate within New York’s borders and slot
machines are allowed at the state’s eight race tracks.  Neighboring  New Jersey  already has casinos in  Atlantic
City . Last month, Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick signed
into law a bill that allows three full-scale casinos to open in
the state.  ‘Comprehensive Reform’  Cuomo also wants to “pursue comprehensive reform of our
 tax code  to make it fair, affordable and one that incentives
economic growth,” he said in the article.  Last week, Cuomo’s aides proposed a plan that would
increase taxes on the wealthy and cut taxes on the middle class,
three legislative aides with knowledge of the talks said. No
specifics of the proposal, discussed during negotiations over a
possible special session agenda with lawmakers’ staff, have been
made available, they said. They asked not to be named because
talks are ongoing.  This week, Republicans will discuss a “number of issues,
including our commitment to cutting taxes” said Reif, the
Skelos spokesman. They have a one-vote majority in the Senate.  Senator John Bonacic, a Republican representing much of the
Catskill region, introduced a bill in March that would raise
taxes on those who earn $1 million or more and dedicate the
revenue to education and relief for local governments. Bonacic
still supports that move, said Jillian Deuel, a spokeswoman.  Bloomberg’s Reaction  New York City  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said raising taxes
isn’t the right way forward, adding that he hadn’t seen the
governor’s proposal. The city’s economy generates about 53
percent of New York state  tax revenue , including more than 60
percent of income-tax collections, according to the city’s
 Office of Management and Budget .  “Fundamentally you cannot tax your way out of problems,”
Bloomberg said at a news conference in midtown  Manhattan  today.
“You’ve got to get your expenses under control and build the
economic base so that if you have tax revenue increases they
should come from an expanded economy as opposed to expanded tax
rates.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  