-- 
Dubai Shares Advance Most in a Month on U.A.E. Wage Increase, Global Gains

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   C l a u d i a   M a e d l e r
-- 
2011-12-04T14:39:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/dubai-shares-advance-most-in-month-on-bank-action-wage-rise-emaar-climbs.html
Dubai’s shares rose to the highest in
more than a month as global markets gained after European
central banks moved to ease the region’s debt crisis and the
United Arab Emirates increased wages for government employees.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  climbed to the highest since Aug. 29
after two bankers said Dec. 1 the developer of the world’s
tallest tower agreed on an $800 million Islamic loan that costs
less than its sukuk. Arabtec Holding PJSC rose 3.4 percent and
 Drake & Scull International (DSI)  rose 4.8 percent. The  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  added 1.8 percent to 1,404.34 at the 2 p.m. close in
Dubai, the highest since Oct. 31. Abu Dhabi’s gauge rose 1.2
percent. Egypt’s benchmark dropped 0.4 percent and Israel’s
TA-25 Index lost less than 0.1 percent.  European stocks posted their biggest weekly rally in three
years as central banks cut the  interest rate  on dollar funding
and  China  raised cash supply for its banks to speed up growth in
the world’s second-largest economy. The  Stoxx Europe 600  Index
jumped 8.7 percent last week, the largest such advance since
November 2008. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index surged 7.4
percent, helped by American Thanksgiving retail sales.  “There’s a follow-on from a positive lead last week that
is reflecting in the market,” said  Haissam Arabi , chief
executive officer of Gulfmena Investments Ltd. “There’s an
added bonus -- the increase in public sector wages clearly means
injecting money supply into the system.”  MSCI Upgrade  The U.A.E. President Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan
ordered pay increases for all federal government employees who
are nationals of the country, state-run WAM news agency reported
Nov. 30. The increments vary between 35 percent of basic pay to
100 percent. The president also ordered the creation of a fund
valued at 10 billion dirhams ($2.72 billion) to help citizens
meet loan obligations.  About 143 million shares traded today in Dubai, compared
with a 12-month daily average of 101 million, according to
Bloomberg data.  Dubai Financial Market PJSC’s (DFM) , the Persian Gulf’s only
bourse to sell shares to the public, advanced 1.6 percent to
97.2 fils, the highest since Nov. 16. Essa Kazim, the chief
executive officer of the exchange, said today he doesn’t see any
difficulties to the U.A.E. securing an upgrade to emerging
market status at MSCI Inc. The index provider in June delayed
the decision, citing among others “stringent foreign ownership
limits.” MSCI will announce its decision Dec. 14.  “Investors seem to be more optimistic regarding the
U.A.E.’s chances of an upgrade to emerging market status,” said
Julian Bruce, Dubai-based equity sales head at EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE.  First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB)  climbed 5.3 percent to 15.95 dirhams.
The stock has gained 11 percent since the lender controlled by
Abu Dhabi’s ruling family announced Nov. 29 that it would raise
foreign ownership limit to 25 percent from 15 percent.  Oil Gains  Oil capped its first gain in three weeks amid concern that
tension between Iran and the West will intensify, threatening
shipments from OPEC’s second-biggest crude producer. Crude oil
for January delivery rose 76 cents to $100.96 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  on Dec. 2, the highest settlement
since Nov. 16. Prices advanced 4.3 percent last week.  Gulf Arab oil exporters, including the United Arab Emirates
and  Saudi Arabia , supply about a fifth of the world’s oil. Saudi
Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rallied 1.1 percent yesterday.
The  measure (KWSEIDX)  was little changed today.  Israel Bonds  Emaar jumped 5.5 percent to 2.86 dirhams. The so-called
profit rate of about 4 percent on the company’s new loan
compared with a yield of 8.44 percent last week on Emaar’s
Islamic bonds maturing August 2016.  Arabtec rose to 1.51 dirhams, the highest since April 24.
The construction company said its newly formed facilities
management unit won a contract to provide services to Cayan
Investment & Development’s Silverene Towers in Dubai Marina.  Drake & Scull climbed the most in a month to 83.8 fils. The
Dubai-based construction company won a contract valued at 200
million dirhams in Kuwait.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  gained 0.3 percent, Qatar’s  QE
Index (DSM)  increased 1.1 percent and Oman’s advanced 0.5 percent.
Kuwait’s measure lost 0.1, while Bahrain’s  BB All Share Index (BHSEASI) 
was little changed.  Israel’s benchmark bonds were little changed before a
government bond auction tomorrow and a meeting between European
leaders this week on the region’s debt crisis. The yield on the
5.5 percent notes due January 2022 was at 4.73 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  