-- 
Economy Avoiding ‘Death Spiral’ Increases Bullish Fund Wagers: Commodities

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-12-05T22:26:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/economy-avoiding-death-spiral-boosts-bullish-fund-wagers-commodities.html
Hedge funds  boosted wagers on higher
 commodity  prices for the first time in three weeks as the
outlook for the  U.S. economy  improved.  Money managers increased combined bullish positions across
18 U.S. futures and options by 0.7 percent to 566,494 contracts
in the week ended Nov. 29, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. Investors trimmed their bearish holdings in copper
for the first time in four weeks, and pared bets on lower wheat
and soybean prices.  The value of world  equities  rose more than $2.2 trillion
last week as the MSCI All-Country World Index climbed for five
consecutive days, the longest rally since October. The  Federal
Reserve  and five other central banks made it easier and cheaper
for banks to obtain dollars in emergencies and China, the
biggest consumer of everything from energy to copper to
soybeans, lowered banks’ reserve requirements for the first time
since 2008. The U.S. jobless rate fell to a two-year low in
November.  “We’re more on a moderate growth path, not the death
spiral people feared two months ago,” said  Michael Strauss , who
helps oversee about $27 billion of assets as the chief
investment strategist at Commonfund in Wilton,  Connecticut .
“That puts a little bit more support into commodities.”  Copper Rallies  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Commodity Index jumped 3.5
percent last week, the most since mid-October, led by copper,
zinc and aluminum. The MSCI All-Country World Index gained 8.4
percent while the Dollar Index, a measure against six trading
partners, slipped 1.3 percent. The yield on 10-year Treasuries
rose 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Twenty-one of the 24 commodities tracked by the GSCI rose
last week, while coffee, hogs and cocoa declined. Copper rose
9.2 percent, the most in five weeks, and wheat gained 6.2
percent in the biggest advance since mid-July.  Commodities will return 15 percent in the next 12 months,
led by industrial metals and energy, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said in a report Dec. 1. The S&P GSCI rebounded 15 percent since
mounting concern about the European debt crisis drove the index
on Oct. 4 to the lowest since November 2010.  U.S.  consumer confidence  surged in November by the most in
eight years, the Conference Board, a New York-based private
research group, reported Nov. 29. Manufacturing expanded at the
fastest speed in five months, according to the  Institute for
Supply Management ’s factory index on Dec. 1.  80 Commodities  Four of the six largest automakers in the U.S. beat
analysts’ expectations in November, boosting industry sales to
the fastest pace since August 2009,  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-
based Autodata Corp. reported Dec. 1. Palladium, used mostly in
catalytic converters, surged 13 percent last week, the most of
any of the 80 commodities tracked by Bloomberg.  The GSCI gauge climbed 1.6 percent last month for a second
consecutive gain. While the index is 14 percent lower than the
32-month high reached in April, it’s still up 4.1 percent for
the year. When economies tumbled into recession in 2008, the
gauge fell as much as 66 percent.  The commodity measure slipped 0.1 percent to settle today
at 657.52, after earlier climbing as much as 1.2 percent.  China ’s growth may slow to 8.5 percent next year, compared
with 9.3 percent in 2011, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development in Paris said in a report Nov. 28.
Chinese manufacturing slowed last month to the weakest since
February 2009, according to an index from the China Federation
of Logistics and Purchasing.  ‘Slow-Growth Mode’  In the 17-nation euro region, a manufacturing gauge based
on a survey of  purchasing managers  fell to the lowest since July
2009, London-based Markit Economics said Dec. 1. Europe accounts
for 19 percent of global copper demand and consumes about one in
six barrels of the world’s oil, according to  Barclays Capital 
and the  International Energy Agency .  “We think  Europe  is in the process of entering a
recession,” said John Bailey, the founder and chief executive
officer of  Stamford , Connecticut-based Spruce Private Investors
LLC, which manages about $3 billion of assets. “Even if the
U.S. stabilizes into a slow-growth mode, there are other
challenges you’re starting to see. The numbers coming out of
China have been weaker than expected.”  Funds pulled $122 million out of commodities in the week
ended Nov. 30, even as gold and precious-metal  investments  had a
net-inflow of $446 million, said  Cameron Brandt , the director of
research at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which
tracks investment flows.  Crude Net-Longs  “There was definitely some enthusiasm in the past few
days, with China switching its reserve policy and more good U.S.
data,” Brandt said by phone. “Inflows next week may be driven
by non-gold funds.”  Net-long positions in crude oil rose 2.6 percent from a
week earlier to 194,695  contracts , according to CFTC data.
Futures climbed 4.3 percent to $100.96 a barrel on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange last week, the most since mid-November. The
most widely held option gives holders the right to buy oil at
$150 by November, exchange data show.  Speculators trimmed bets on lower copper prices to 7,017
contracts, from 7,731 a week earlier, the CFTC data show. Twelve
of 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the metal to advance
this week and two were neutral, the first majority bullish
outlook in six weeks. Stockpiles monitored by exchanges in
 London , New York and  Shanghai  fell 23 percent since March.  Supply ‘Struggle’  Copper will average a record $4.14 a pound in 2012, as
economic concerns dissipate amid the “struggle simply to
maintain, never mind increase, copper-mine output,” analysts at
 Macquarie Capital  (Europe) Ltd. led by London-based Jeff Largey
said in a report Dec. 1. Prices averaged $4.06 this year on the
Comex exchange in New York.  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators
increased bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 2.4
percent to 267,643 contracts, the first gain in three weeks.  “We have seen a nice rally in the past couple of weeks as
investors rush back to risk assets,” said  Peter Buchanan , a
senior economist and commodity analyst at CIBC World Markets
Inc. in Toronto. “What we’ve really seen is the risk-on, risk-
off trade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  