-- 
EU Treaty Rewrite Sought by Merkel, Sarkozy

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-12-05T20:15:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/merkel-sarkozy-seek-again-to-resolve-debt-crisis-in-week-full-of-summits.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  pushed for a rewrite of the
European Union’s governing rules to tighten economic cooperation
in a demonstration of unity on ending the debt crisis.  Stocks and the euro rose after Merkel and Sarkozy said that
 Europe ’s two biggest economies were aligned on backing automatic
penalties for deficit violators and locking limits on debt into
euro states’ constitutions. The French leader said they aimed to
reach consensus on the changes required by March.  “We don’t have time -- we are conscious of the gravity of
the situation,” Sarkozy said after the two met over lunch at
the Elysee palace in Paris today. “We want to go as fast as
possible based on this agreement between  France  and Germany,
which is open to others.”  With the fate of the currency shared by the 17 euro
countries at risk, Merkel and Sarkozy presented a common
platform for a Dec. 8-9 summit of EU leaders in Brussels that
aims to halt the crisis now in its third year. Among the French-
German measures were plans to fast-track the permanent rescue
fund to 2012, one year earlier than originally envisaged.  While the announcements represent “a good start to the
week of truth,” Merkel and Sarkozy still need to convince the
rest of the euro area to go along with their plans for closer
union if they are to prompt European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  to step up the ECB’s response to the crisis, said
 Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels.  ‘Fiscal Compact’  “They need put money where their mouth is and bring
everyone else on board,” Brzeski said by phone. “From a
financial market perspective, it’s about them doing enough to
deliver Draghi’s fiscal compact.”  Merkel and Sarkozy both declined to comment today on
Draghi’s comments last week that “other elements might follow”
should a “new fiscal compact” emerge among the euro nations.  Safeguarding banks, limiting the damage to Italy and  Spain 
and finding additional rescue funds may hinge on the response to
Franco-German demands for closer economic integration and
tougher policing of fiscal rules.  The Financial Times reported that  Standard & Poor’s  will
put France, Germany and other European nations on “creditwatch
negative.” S&P will release a statement later today and also
plans to put the Netherlands,  Austria , Finland and Luxembourg on
“creditwatch negative, the FT reported, implying a 50 percent
chance of a ratings downgrade within 90 days.  The euro erased gains against the dollar after the FT
report. The euro was down 0.1 percent at $1.3397 at 3:09 p.m.
New York time after gaining as much as 0.7 percent.  The  risk premium  between Italian and German 10-year notes
narrowed 79 basis points to 3.73 percentage points.  Geithner Trip  With the EU summit looming, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  arrives in Frankfurt tomorrow to prod political
leaders, and the ECB holds a policy meeting Dec. 8.  European leaders will seek to “win back a bit of trust”
at a summit after “our reliability has suffered,” Merkel said.
“We are steadfastly determined to make the decision at the
council now.”  The two repeated their rejection of jointly sold euro bonds
in solving the crisis and affirmed the independence of the ECB.  “I want to tell French people that France and  Germany 
totally oppose euro bonds because it isn’t at all a solution in
this crisis,” Sarkozy said. “What a strange idea to put
European debts in the same pot.”  Merkel also sought to calm concerns of euro-area member
states that the  European Court  of Justice would be able to veto
national budgets as part of a proposal for centralized deficit
supervision.  “The European court won’t be able to check every budget,
but rather rule on whether the debt brake anchored in national
law has been implemented in such a way that it adheres to the
Stability and Growth Pact,” Merkel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  