-- 
Family Values Remain Gingrich’s Toughest Sell: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-12-04T17:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/family-values-remain-gingrich-s-toughest-sell-albert-r-hunt.html
Herman Cain , who suspended his
presidential campaign this weekend after cascading reports of
personal failings, is the exception. American voters are
increasingly tolerant when it comes to private behavior.  Three of the last five Republican presidential nominees
have been divorced. President  Bill Clinton  survived, even
flourished, after revelations of a sexual dalliance with an
intern, and Republican Senator  David Vitter  of  Louisiana  was re-
elected even after disclosures that he frequented a prostitute.  The acid test of this growing openness may be the new
Republican presidential frontrunner, Newt Gingrich.  His personal past is messier than most; he’s on his third
marriage, left his first two wives when they were in poor
health, and while having affairs.  Also, his version of events is replete with gaps, changing
and contradictory stories; both of his two former wives have
questioned his moral character.  Finally, he is the front-runner of a party in which a
sizeable chunk of the base consists of family-values
conservatives who will have to decide between Gingrich’s
rhetoric and his past.  When the former House speaker first announced his intention
to run for the presidency in May, there were stories detailing
his past transgressions; his candidacy floundered, and coverage
ceased. In the past few weeks, as other challenges to the then-
front-runner, former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney ,
collapsed, the Gingrich candidacy soared in the polls.  ‘Secular-Socialist Machine’  A centerpiece of Gingrich’s wide-ranging message is a call
to restore moral values and stop President  Barack Obama ’s
“secular-socialist machine,” the subtitle of one of his recent
books.  The return to the spotlight means renewed scrutiny by the
media and his opponents. Two recent episodes crystallize the
stakes and challenges.  The first was a letter from his daughter, Jackie Cushman
Gingrich, that was  published  on a website. She knocked down
recurring reports that in 1980, her mother was dying of cancer,
her father visited the hospital to discuss the terms of their
divorce. Jackie Gingrich says her mother is alive and, in fact,
was herself the one who initiated the divorce proceedings well
before she went into the hospital for cancer surgery.  The other was an open letter a few days ago to  Newt
Gingrich  from  Richard Land , an influential leader of the
Southern Baptist Convention. He called on the candidate to
express a mea culpa for his personal past before a pro-family
venue.  ‘No Moral Scandals’  “You need to make it as clear as you possibly can that you
deeply regret your past actions,”  Land wrote . “Promise your
fellow Americans that if they are generous enough to trust you
with the presidency, you will not let them down and that there
will be no moral scandals in a Gingrich White House.”  The record complicates his daughter’s vindication and the
Land challenge. In 1985, five years after the divorce,
Gingrich’s first wife,  Jackie , spoke to several reporters. She
confirmed the story that her husband came to see her at the
hospital post-surgery to talk about a divorce that he had
initiated. The accounts of both Gingrichs were then confirmed in
a  Washington  Post interview that is at odds with the current
contention of their daughter.  “He can say that we had been talking about it for 10 years
but the truth is that it came as a complete surprise,” Jackie
Gingrich, who met her husband when she was his high school
geometry teacher, said in that interview.  ‘Talking About Divorce’  In the same article, the congressman seemed to acknowledge
the story: “All I can say is when you have been talking about
divorce for 11 years and you’ve gone to a marriage counselor and
the other person doesn’t want the divorce, I’m not sure there is
any sensitive way to handle it.”  Moreover, after the divorce, when Gingrich was in Congress
and earning a good salary, the family had to turn to their
church for assistance and his ex-wife had to go to court for
support payments. His second wife, Marianne, says he proposed to
her before he was divorced.  Marianne Gingrich gave a long interview to  Esquire Magazine 
last year, recounting how her husband left her after she was
diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. He admitted there was another
woman. Later, in court proceedings, it emerged that there had
been an affair that extended throughout his tenure as speaker,
while he was leading the effort to impeach Clinton for lying
about sex. The woman was Callista Bisek, now his third wife.  Family Values  In the interview, the second Mrs. Gingrich said that when
she found out about the affair, her husband asked her to just
tolerate it. She said she declined.  Gingrich, according to Marianne, “believes what he says in
public and how he lives don’t have to be connected.” A short
while after this incident, Gingrich gave a speech stressing
family values. Marianne says she asked him about the disconnect.
“It doesn’t matter what I do,” she quoted him as saying,
“people need to hear what I have to say.”  Several years earlier, as he was approaching the end of his
first year as speaker, Gingrich gave a speech to a conference of
evangelical pastors at Liberty University, founded by the late
televangelist Jerry Falwell. The address was heavy on God and
morality and the need to reestablish a spiritual base in
America, a recurring Gingrich refrain. At the time, he was
having an affair with a House staffer then in her twenties,
Callista Bisek.  Church Deacon  After that speech, in response to a question, Gingrich
explained that he didn’t attend religious services because a
Democratic-led redistricting had put his church outside his
district. As a candidate in his early congressional campaigns,
he proudly proclaimed he was a deacon in that Baptist church.  There are more than a few other politicians who’ve engaged
in sexual indiscretions. Most voters think there are more
important considerations. And the former speaker, under the
influence of his wife, converted to Catholicism three years ago,
and has said he experienced a spiritual awakening.  Yet he is seeking the presidential mantle of the self-
styled family-values party. In an interview, Land, the Southern
Baptist leader, was asked if he believed any public apology by
Gingrich would be sincere.  After a pause, he said, “I’m hopeful.”  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 