-- 
Gillard Wins Bid for Uranium Sales to India

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-12-04T23:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/gillard-wins-fight-to-end-australia-s-ban-on-exporting-uranium-to-india.html
Australia ’s ruling Labor Party ended
a ban on uranium exports to India, approving Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s proposal to strengthen diplomatic ties with the
South Asian nation and open a new market for suppliers.  “We need to make sure that across our region we have the
strongest relationships we can, including with the world’s
largest democracy, India,” Gillard told the party’s conference
in Sydney yesterday before delegates voted 206 to 185 in favor
of her motion, which was opposed by left-wing members.  Gillard, Australia’s first female prime minister, proposed
the policy shift last month to spur the economy and tap
increasing energy demand in India, the country’s fourth-biggest
export market. Australia, holder of the world’s biggest uranium
reserves, banned sales to  India  because it hasn’t signed the
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Shares of uranium companies
Energy Resources Australia Ltd. and Deep Yellow Ltd. gained.  “The prime minister did take a political risk and I think
the narrowness of the vote confirms that,” Rory Medcalf,
director of the international security program at the Sydney-
based Lowy Institute and a former Australian diplomat in India,
said in a telephone interview. “This removes a fundamental
obstacle to normal relations with India.”  Getting the ban lifted was her second political victory at
the party conference, which may boost her standings after months
of slumping ratings. Delegates voted on Dec. 3 to back her plan
to allow lawmakers to vote personally on whether to support gay
marriage.  Rio, BHP  Shipping uranium to India would benefit producers such as
Energy Resources, controlled by Rio Tinto Group, and  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  Australia, the world’s third-biggest uranium
supplier behind Kazakhstan and  Canada , exports to countries
including  China , Russia and  Japan .  Energy Resources rose 5.2 percent to A$1.505 at 10:17 a.m.
in Sydney. Exploration company Deep Yellow surged 10 percent to
16 cents, and Peninsula Energy Ltd. climbed 8.3 percent to 3.9
cents. BHP added 1.5 percent and Rio advanced 0.5 percent.  Reversing the policy would help efforts to establish an
economic and security agreement with the U.S. and India,
Australian’s Foreign Minister  Kevin Rudd  told the Australian
Financial Review newspaper on Nov. 30.  The decision clears the way for the two countries to
negotiate a nuclear-safeguards accord, which may take as long as
a year, the institute’s Medcalf said before the conference. It
may be five years or more before Australia realizes economic
benefits, he said.  Rock Star  Lifting the ban brings Australia in line with the U.S.,
which has a civil nuclear accord with India. The country’s
atomic energy program got a boost in September 2008 when the 46-
nation Nuclear Suppliers group lifted a three-decade ban on
exports to India, which then signed nuclear agreements with
countries including  Russia  and  France .  “Where is our vision here? Where is our commitment to a
nuclear free future?” said Peter Garrett, minister for school
education, early childhood and youth and a former rock star and
an anti-nuclear campaigner. India had been given “a tick for
exempting themselves from the international disarmament
framework and I’m very disappointed in that decision,” he said.  The Greens Party, which Gillard’s minority government
relies on to pass legislation, has condemned the plan, saying
mining interests are dictating foreign policy. It’s “a pursuit
of money at the expense of global safety,” Bob Brown, the
Greens senator and party leader,  said Nov. 15 . The new policy
doesn’t require parliamentary approval.  Two-Way Trade  Two-way trade between Australia and India reached A$18.4
billion in 2010, according to the statistics bureau. Uranium
exports are expected to have been A$960 million in the year
ended June 30, 2011, according to Australian government data.  Energy Resources, which operates the Ranger Mine in the
Northern Territory, exports uranium to power utilities in Japan,
 South Korea , China,  Europe  and  North America . Melbourne-based
BHP sells uranium to Japan and China.  Australian uranium explorers may attract investment from
Indian companies after the policy change, Greg Hall, managing
director of Adelaide-based  Toro Energy Ltd. (TOE)  said Nov. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  