-- 
Gingrich Surges in Iowa Poll as Cain Exits

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-12-04T17:23:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/gingrich-surging-in-iowa-republican-candidates-poll-as-cain-exits-race.html
Former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich of  Georgia  holds a lead in Iowa, where the first
Republican presidential nomination votes will be cast a month
from now, according to a poll released yesterday.  Gingrich has the support of 25 percent of likely caucus
participants in the latest  Iowa Poll  from the Des Moines
Register newspaper. U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  was
next, with 18 percent, followed by former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney at 16 percent. Sixty percent of poll participants
said they could change their minds, while 11 percent said
they’re undecided before the Jan. 3 caucuses.  “This is still anyone’s game,” said J. Ann Selzer,
president of West Des Moines-based  Selzer & Co. , which conducted
the Register’s poll. “What Romney has going for him is that
neither Gingrich or Paul have dealt with much scrutiny.”  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  recorded
support from 8 percent in the poll, the same showing as  Herman Cain , the former chief executive of Godfather’s Pizza Inc. who
dropped out of the race yesterday because of what he said was
excessive media attention to allegations of improper sexual
conduct on his part.  Perry, Santorum, Huntsman  Texas Governor Rick Perry has work to do in Iowa if he
wants to regain his standing in the race, the poll shows. He has
support from 6 percent of likely caucus participants. Former
Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania , who has spent more time
in Iowa than any other candidate, also stood at 6 percent.
Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., who isn’t actively
competing in Iowa, was backed by 2 percent.  The survey of 401 likely Republican caucus participants was
conducted Nov. 27-30 and has a margin of error of plus or minus
4.9 percentage points.  Gingrich has the potential to increase his support in Iowa,
the newspaper said in its report. More respondents choose him as
their second choice than any other candidate.  A Bloomberg News poll in Iowa done Nov. 10-12 by the same
polling company used by the Register showed Gingrich, Paul and
Romney in a dead heat with Cain, all at around 20 percent. In
the latest poll, Cain’s support had fallen to 8 percent even
before he announced he would be ending his campaign.  Gingrich Likely Benefits  “ Newt Gingrich  is the likely beneficiary” of Cain’s
departure,  Ed Gillespie , former chairman of the  Republican
National Committee , said on “Fox News Sunday.” Among Cain’s
backers in the Bloomberg poll, Gingrich was the second choice of
28 percent, followed by Perry at 23 percent. Romney and Paul
were each the second choice of 14 percent of Cain supporters.  An NBC News/Marist poll conducted Nov. 27-29 showed
Gingrich leading Romney in Iowa. Gingrich had the support of 26
percent of likely Republican caucus participants compared with 18
percent for Romney, according to the NBC News/Marist poll of 425
people. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 4.8
percentage points.  “I think a lot of people inside the Beltway and outside
the Beltway woke up today to a very different political
environment and one in which Newt Gingrich is very much for
real,” said  Robert Gibbs , the former White House press
secretary now serving as an Obama campaign adviser, on CBS’s
“Face the Nation” program.  A hard fought primary isn’t “anything unique in American
politics” and a prolonged process wouldn’t hurt Republicans’
chances of winning the White House said Reince Priebus, chairman
of the Republican National Committee.  “I mean  Hillary Clinton  and Barack Obama nearly gouged
each other’s eyes out through the end of June before a national
convention and guess what: Barack Obama won pretty easily,”
Priebus said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program.  Gingrich Opens Office  Gingrich, 68, opened his first campaign office in  Iowa  on
Nov. 30, the last major candidate to do so.  In a televised Republican presidential forum last night,
Gingrich defended his fiscal conservative credentials, arguing
that his achievements in Congress outweigh his past support for
mandating health insurance and calls to address climate change -
- both opposed by Republican conservative-base voters.  Gingrich said he has come to view both his health insurance
stance and his involvement in a 2008 climate change public
service advertisement with former Democratic House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  as mistakes.  “Newt is someone who likes to get issues that are 80 to 90
percent in the polls, and 80 percent in the polls are generally
not necessarily conservative -- strong conservative issues,”
rival Santorum said on ABC’s “This Week” program. “But that’s
how Newt is -- has always tried to govern.’”  Romney Iowa Effort  Romney, 64, has also increased his efforts in Iowa in
recent weeks, after taking a below-the-radar approach to the
state for much of the year, as he sought to manage expectations.  One of Romney’s highest-profile surrogates, New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie , is set to visit Iowa on Dec. 7, about a
week after his campaign started  television advertising  there.  Romney yesterday also picked up the  endorsement  of the
Sioux City Journal, a newspaper that circulates in northwest
Iowa, a heavily Republican area.  In the televised forum, Romney defended his past position
on health care when asked how he would answer  Barack Obama  if
the Democratic president said his health-care overhaul --reviled
by Republicans for requiring that everyone buy medical insurance  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  