-- 
Gingrich Defends Conservative Bona Fides at Candidates’ Forum

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-12-04T05:13:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/gingrich-defends-conservative-bona-fides-at-republican-candidates-forum.html
Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  defended his fiscal conservative credentials last night
in a televised Republican presidential forum, arguing that his
achievements in Congress outweigh his past support for mandating
health insurance and calls to address climate change -- both
considered anathema to Republican base voters.  Gingrich, the latest Republican contender to surge in the
polls and challenge former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney
for the lead in the party’s primary, said he has come to view
both his health insurance stance and his involvement in a 2008
climate change public service advertisement with former
Democratic House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  as mistakes.  “Why should limited-government conservatives like me trust
that a President Gingrich will not advance these sorts of big-
government approaches when you are president?,” asked Virginia
Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli , one of three Republicans who
questioned the six candidates participating in the session in
the New York studios of  Fox News .  Gingrich, 68, responded that “if you look at my entire
record -- the only speaker in your lifetime to get to four
balanced budgets, the developer of welfare reform, the biggest
entitlement reform in your lifetime, somebody who has advocated
a balanced budget constitutional amendment,” and a proponent of
enforcing the 10th Amendment preserving states’ rights, he has
helped to “shrink the government.”  Tea Party Hero  Hosted by the 2008 Iowa caucus winner  Mike Huckabee , a hero
among social conservatives and Tea Party-aligned voters who
disdain the federal government, the forum focused on the
Constitution and principles of states’ rights.  The event came at the end of a day that saw the contours of
the presidential race redefined after  Herman Cain , the former
chief executive of Godfather’s Pizza Inc. and onetime
frontrunner, suspended his campaign after allegations of an
extramarital affair and multiple sexual harassment claims.  The candidates took turns separately fielding questions
from the three Republican state attorneys general as polls
showed Gingrich on the rise one month before the nominating
contest kicks off with the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses. Gingrich has
the support of 25 percent of likely caucus participants in an
 Iowa Poll  released last night by the Des Moines Register
newspaper. U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas ran second,
with 18 percent, closely followed by Romney at 16 percent.  Health Care  Romney, too, defended his past position on health care when
asked how he would answer  Barack Obama  if the president charged
that his health-care overhaul -- reviled by Republicans for
mandating that everyone buy medical insurance -- was modeled
after the Massachusetts law Romney signed, which has the same
requirement.  “I sure look forward to that” exchange, Romney, 64, said.
“Do I like the bill overall? Yes. Am I proud of what we did for
our state? Yes. But what the president has done is way beyond
what we envisioned.”  Romney said while his measure only aimed to cover the 8
percent Massachusetts residents who lacked insurance,
“Obamacare is about taking over 100 percent of the people’s
insurance in this country.”  The candidates uniformly expressed support for taking power
from the federal government and sending it back to the states,
including for education and Medicaid. While  Texas  Governor Rick Perry said he would advocate eliminating federal oversight of
labor law, Romney said he wouldn’t go that far.  “I would not propose getting rid of all federal labor law,
but I do see we have to rein in the power of the  National Labor
Relations Board  and see how much we could return to the
states,” Romney said.  ‘Wild and Woolly Ride’  Perry, a virtually instant frontrunner after he entered the
presidential race Aug. 13 who has since dropped to single-digit
support, used the forum to plead for a reprieve from voters.  “Boy, it’s been a wild and a woolly ride in this primary,
and I suspect that’s going to stay the same, so I hope everyone
will give me a second look,” Perry, 61, said in his closing
statement. He drew backing from just 6 percent in the new Iowa
poll.  Paul, 76, argued that Social Security, Medicare and
Medicaid are unconstitutional and should be phased out, and
railed against the Patriot Act as “way too much of a sacrifice
of liberty” for new federal laws that won’t prevent terrorism.  He also urged free-market conservatives not to cede the
debate over the role of government to “liberals” who advocate
a strong safety net. “It is up to us to argue the case that the
markets can answer, that the free market and property rights can
solve just about all these problems much better than more
bureaucrats in  Washington ,” Paul said.  Human Life Amendment  Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann , 55, said she
favors a federal human life amendment over state anti-abortion
measures because the topic is so central to the nation’s
founding principles. “Life is the fundamental issue,” she said.  Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  also emphasized
social issues, calling Huckabee, a former Arkansas governor, “a
great warrior for faith and family on the campaign trail four
years ago,” and arguing that those subjects shouldn’t be
ignored during this campaign.  “I know that everybody has said now that we need to have a
truce on those issues,” to focus on the economy, Santorum, 53,
said, adding that such a truce would be “a surrender. Ladies
and gentlemen, I will not surrender.”  Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. skipped the forum.  At the conclusion of the broadcast, Gingrich used his
closing statement to cast the 2012 contest as possibly the
“most important election since 1860,” when  Abraham Lincoln ’s
election spawned declarations of secession from Southern states
that led to the Civil War.  “Eight years of Barack Obama would be a disaster,”
Gingrich said. “And if he gets re-elected with this economy,
this deficit, these problems, he’s going to think it
vindicates” his “radicalism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  