-- 
India Signals Readiness to Defend Slumping Rupee as Growth Slows: Economy

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-12-05T10:17:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/gokarn-says-rbi-can-support-indian-rupee-with-capital-controls.html
India  signaled it’s prepared to act
against excessive declines in the rupee, as  Asia ’s worst
performing currency this year threatens to exacerbate the
fastest inflation among so-called BRIC nations and hurt growth.  The recent sharp depreciation isn’t a sign of
“helplessness in dealing with the kind of global turbulence we
are seeing,” central bank Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said in
Mumbai on Dec. 3. “We do have the instruments to do this in the
form of strategic capital controls, which can be used to enhance
the supply of foreign exchange.”  The rupee has fallen 13 percent this year as investors sold
emerging-market assets on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will lead
to a global recession.  India’s economy  expanded last quarter at
the slowest pace since 2009 after the central bank raised
interest rates by a record to tame inflation, while Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh’s efforts to stimulate growth were
hamstrung by corruption scandals that have stalled legislation.  “The central bank is trying to manage expectations right
now having given an impression that they don’t have the tools to
control rupee weakness earlier,” said  Ramya Suryanarayanan , an
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore . While it
would be pointless to fight the trend, “there are negative
consequences, in the short term, given the speed of the fall.”  Asian currencies from  Indonesia  to India have fallen this
year as policy makers grapple with Europe’s protracted
sovereign-debt crisis, which has hurt demand for the region’s
exports and prompted nations from  Australia  to  Thailand  to lower
borrowing costs.  China  Services  Asian stocks rose for a sixth day today, with Asia’s
benchmark index headed for its longest winning streak since Oct.
13, as Italy took steps to trim its debt before European Union
leaders meet this week to tackle the region’s crisis. The  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  advanced 0.4 percent. Gains were limited as
Chinese stocks fell, with the Shanghai Composite Index sliding
1.2 percent.  A China purchasing managers’ index for non-manufacturing
industries fell to 49.7 in November from 57.7 the previous month,
the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on its
website Dec. 3. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. A
services index issued by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
today fell to 52.5, the lowest level in three months.  Australia Rates  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, reports today showed
Australian business profits advanced 4.8 percent in the third
quarter from the previous three months, more than economists
estimated, while inventories declined, as high commodity prices
boosted earnings in mining. New Zealand construction fell to the
lowest level in more than 10 years in the third quarter and the
Treasury lowered its growth outlook.  Taiwan’s inflation rate eased to the lowest level in more
than a year in November, while a Purchasing Managers’ Index
released by HSBC and Markit showed India’s services industry
expanded at the quickest pace in three months.  Australia’s central bank will probably make its first
consecutive interest-rate cuts this quarter since the global
recession that followed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008
collapse. Traders are betting on an 88 percent chance that
 Reserve Bank  Governor  Glenn Stevens , who lowered borrowing costs
last month for the first time in 2 1/2 years, will reduce the
key rate tomorrow by a quarter percentage point to 4.25 percent,
a Credit Suisse Group AG Index shows.  Service industries in the U.S. probably expanded in
November at the fastest pace in six months, economists said
before an  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index report today. Other reports may show factory orders fell
in October.  India’s Signal  Russia ’s inflation rate probably fell last month to the
lowest since September 2010, a Bloomberg survey showed ahead of
data today or tomorrow. Euro zone retail sales, and Singapore’s
PMI are also due today.  In India, where the government said last week it has
limited scope for a boost in spending to create demand and spur
growth, the  Reserve Bank of India  signaled in October it’s
nearing the end of monetary tightening, provided inflation slows.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation was 9.73
percent in October. By comparison, consumer prices rose 7
percent in  Brazil , 5.5 percent in China and 7.2 percent in
Russia in the same month. The central bank has boosted the
repurchase rate by 375 basis points in 13 moves since the start
of 2010, the fastest round of increases since the monetary
authority was established in 1935, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Warning Shot’  The rupee’s decline is adding to concern Indian policy
makers will be unable to cool inflation which has stayed above 9
percent all year. The currency weakened 6.7 percent against the
dollar last month, the biggest decline in almost two decades,
touching a record low of 52.4550 on Nov. 25.  Foreign-exchange reserves fell $4.3 billion to $304.4
billion in the week ended Nov. 25, the central bank said in a
statement on Dec. 2, a sign it sold dollars to stem losses.
Intervention isn’t “an easy judgment” and the RBI has no
target exchange rate for the rupee, Gokarn said.  “He’s firing a warning shot,” rather than committing the
central bank to a series of  capital controls , said Robert Prior- Wandesforde, Singapore-based head of India and Southeast Asia
economics at Credit Suisse Group AG. “That hasn’t been their
policy and would go against their stated aims. It may be
designed to scare the speculators.”  Any measures are more likely to be designed to encourage
greater inflows rather than to discourage outflows, he said.
India needs to do more to keep the rupee from weakening further
“given the inflationary issues,” he said.  Finding a Balance  “Our broad objective is to find a balance between the
short-term risk of the rupee spiraling downwards and the medium-
term risk of a loss of confidence in our ability to meet our
external obligations,” Gokarn said.  On Nov. 23, the central bank raised the limit on  interest
rates  paid by the nation’s companies on some maturing overseas
borrowings and also relaxed rules for currency swaps in an
attempt to stem the rupee’s slide. The currency rose 0.6 percent
the following day.  There are already restrictions on debt inflows applying to
quantity, tenor and pricing, Gokarn said.  “Short-term debt is the least preferred, because it’s seen
as most vulnerable to sudden reversals, while long-term, despite
risk concerns, is seen as contributing to the resource flow into
infrastructure,” he said. “These controls on debt might be
viewed as structural or strategic capital controls.”  India will consider imposing restrictions on overseas
investment by local companies and curbing pre-payments of
foreign loans if the rupee weakens further, the Economic Times
reported today, citing a finance ministry official with
knowledge of the meeting’s agenda. The measures are among
options to be considered by a sub-committee of the Financial
Stability Development Council, which is meeting Dec. 8, the
newspaper said.  Overseas  investors  have sold  $325 million  more of Indian
stocks than they bought this year through Dec. 1, according to
exchange data. Asia’s third-largest  economy  grew 6.9 percent in
the three months to September from a year earlier, the slowest
pace in more than two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  