-- 
ICBC Says Rate Decline to Sustain Record Sales: China Credit

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-12-04T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/icbc-says-rate-decline-to-sustain-record-sales.html
Corporate bond sales in  China  have
surpassed their quarterly record and falling borrowing costs
will sustain that growth, according to  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the nation’s biggest bank.  Issuance has climbed to 679 billion yuan ($107 billion)
since Oct. 1, exceeding the 610 billion yuan reached in the
second quarter of 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
yield on five-year notes offered by top-rated Chinese companies
fell five basis points to  4.88 percent  on Dec. 2, from a record-
high 5.92 percent on Sept. 26, according to Chinabond data.
Similar bonds in  India   yielded  9.57 percent.  Debt sales in the first 11 months of 2011 surged 39 percent
to 2.4 trillion yuan as the  Shanghai  Composite Index headed for
a second annual decline and the People’s  Bank of China  reined in
bank lending to prevent a real-estate bubble. Borrowing through
bonds is cheaper than loans in China as the minimum lending rate
set by the central bank is  6.2 percent  for loans with tenors of
three to five years.  “Underwriting volume increased this year because there has
been tightening of financing channels like bank loans,” Tang Lingyun, head of global markets at ICBC in Beijing, said in a
Nov. 28 interview. “The cost of selling bonds will continue to
stabilize in the near future so bonds are still more attractive
than loans. Long-term yields will remain stable, while short-
term rates may fall.”  China is promoting expansion of its corporate  bond market 
as mounting bad loans forced the government to bail out the
banking industry twice in the past two decades. The
 International Monetary Fund  called last month for China to
expand oversight of banks as risks increase from off-balance
sheet lending and a surge in property prices.  Market Growth  The yuan-denominated bond market grew 6.4 percent to $3.25
trillion in the first nine months of the year,  according to  the
Manila-based Asian Development Bank. It is the second-biggest
bond market in  Asia , compared with about $12 trillion in  Japan 
and $1.18 trillion in  South Korea .  Bond issuance increased as policy makers curbed lending.
 New loans  averaged 628 billion yuan a month this year, compared
with 688 billion in the same period last year, according to
central bank data. The regulator announced the first of five
interest-rate increases in October 2010.  The pace of bond sales may speed up further next year, Bank
of Communications Co., the 10th ranked underwriter, said in an
e-mailed response to enquiries, declining to identify a
spokesman due to company policy. The government committed to
supporting bond issuance instead of bank lending in its 12th
five-year plan, the bank wrote.  Yuan Gains  The yield on the 3.99 percent government bond due June 2021
dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.49
percent on Dec. 2, the lowest level since the note started
trading in June, according to the Interbank Funding Center.
Yields fell 16 basis points last week.  The yuan advanced 0.24 percent last week and 0.06 percent
on Dec. 2 to close at 6.3597 per dollar in Shanghai, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. Twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards gained 0.02 percent on Dec. 2 to 6.3810, a
0.3 percent discount to the onshore spot rate.  Chinese companies and the government have raised $7.50 from
bond investors this year for every $1 from stock sales. Proceeds
from the sale of equity, equity-linked and right shares fell 41
percent in the first 11 months from a year earlier to 321
billion yuan. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index has
declined  16 percent (SHCOMP)  this year following a 14 percent drop in
2010, the first back-to-back losses since 2005.  ‘Poor Stock Market’  Initial public offerings “have become less attractive
because of the poor stock market,” said Wang Yang, co-head of
fixed-income research in Beijing at UBS Securities Co., the
domestic securities arm of  Switzerland ’s biggest bank. “Even
though bond yields have risen due to inflation pressure this
year, the cost of borrowing is still cheaper than commercial
loans for higher-rated companies.”  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , the nation’s third-largest lender, was
the leading underwriter in 2011, managing 245 billion yuan of
bond offerings this year through Nov. 30, giving the bank a 10.3
percent market share, data compiled by Bloomberg show. ICBC
managed 9.5 percent of issuance, while China Construction Bank
Corp. was third with 9.1 percent.  Bank of China was the sole manager when Wuhan Iron & Steel
Group sold 7 billion yuan of one-year bonds in August. ICBC’s
mandates included 12 bonds totaling 115 billion yuan by China
National Petroleum Corp.  Reserve Ratio Cut  Chinese banks and brokers took the top 10 spots with a
combined market share of 65 percent this year. Units of  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  arranged 3.6 percent of the issuance. Foreign banks
have a 19 percent share in  Brazil  and 31 percent in India.  Yields are falling after the central bank cut the amount of
cash banks must set aside as reserves for the first time in
three years. Reserve ratios for the biggest banks will drop 0.5
percentage point to 21 percent from today. China may cut them
three percentage points in the next 12 months, Masha Gordon, the
head of the emerging-market equity portfolio management at
Pacific Investment Management Co., which oversees about $1.35
trillion worldwide, said in a Dec. 1 interview in  London .  “Underwriting volume in China’s domestic bond market will
continue to grow next year but the pace will be slower,” said
ICBC’s Tang. “The slight adjustment in China’s lending policy
may make loans more available and soak up some of the interest
in bond issuance.”  Default Risk  Five-year contracts protecting Chinese government debt
against default fell four basis points to 135 basis points on
Dec. 2, according to data provider CMA, which compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “The default risk of China’s domestic bonds is very low
and it’s unlikely to change in the near term,” said Wilson Li,
a Shenzhen, southern China-based analyst at Guotai Junan
Securities Co. “Companies selling bonds are usually state-owned
enterprises or listed companies. The smaller ones are usually
not qualified to sell bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  