-- 
Tiger Woods Ends Two-Year Drought to Win at Golf’s Chevron World Challenge

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-12-05T22:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/tiger-woods-end-two-year-winless-drought-at-golf-s-chevron-world-challenge.html
Tiger Woods’s winless drought ended
after 749 days yesterday when he birdied the final two holes for
a one-shot victory at golf’s Chevron World Challenge.  The 14-time major tournament champion fired a 3-under-par
69 to finish the invitational tournament he hosts at Sherwood
Country Club in  Thousand Oaks ,  California , at 10-under-par 278,
one shot ahead of third-round leader  Zach Johnson . The
tournament is not an official  PGA Tour  event.  “Was I nervous? Absolutely,” Woods, 35, told reporters
after his first tournament win since the Australian Masters in
November of 2009. “It’s been a while, but also for some reason
it feels like it hasn’t.”  Less than two weeks after his last win two years ago, Woods
was involved in a single car crash outside his Florida home. The
incident led to an admission by Woods of marital infidelity,
which triggered his divorce and the loss of corporate sponsors.
His record run atop the world rankings ended, and he changed his
swing coach and caddie.  Woods birdied the 10th and 11th holes yesterday to take a
two-shot lead over Johnson. After a bogey by Woods at the 12th,
Johnson, the 2007 Masters Tournament champion, birdied the next
hole to leave the pair tied at 8-under with five holes to play.  They remained co-leaders until the par-5 16th hole, where
Johnson sank a putt of about 12 feet for birdie.  Birdie-Birdie Finish  One hole later, Woods pumped a clenched fist after draining
a birdie putt to leave the pair tied at 9-under par.  “That putt was huge,” Woods said. “If I don’t make that
putt, we come down to 18 and it’s in Zach’s control.”  At No. 18, where Johnson scored an eagle from the fairway
two days ago to take the third-round lead, Woods dropped his
approach shot about six feet from the cup. Johnson missed his
birdie attempt from about twice that distance and Woods punched
the air as his putt disappeared into the cup.  Woods said the win may act as a springboard to the kind of
season that  Jim Furyk  enjoyed the year after winning the Chevron
title in 2009. Furyk claimed three PGA Tour events in 2010 and
captured the season-long FedEx Cup title.  “I feel pretty good going into next year,” Woods said.
“If I have a good year I should be on the ballot for Comeback
Player of the Year, so I’m excited about that.”  Johnson concurred.  “He’s going to have a good year,” Johnson, 35, told
reporters. “He’s the most experienced and the best player I’ve
ever played with. In every situation, he knows how to execute
and win.”  Better and Better  In the past three weeks, Woods has finished third at the
Australian Open in Sydney and scored the clinching point in the
U.S. team’s win at the Presidents Cup in  Melbourne  the following
week.  “Everything was progressing, from playing the exhibition
matches right before the Aussie Open, playing the Aussie Open,
playing the Presidents Cup,” Woods said. “I got better each
and every tournament.”  Woods, who surged in the world rankings after the win to No.
21 from 52nd, almost ended his drought at the Chevron World
challenge last year, when he lost in a playoff to Graeme McDowell.  Woods, whose record 281-week stay atop the Official World
Golf Ranking ended Nov. 1, 2010,  previously won  the 18-player
event, which benefits his charitable foundation, in 2001, 2004,
2006 and 2007.  Injury Problems  During the past two years Woods has also had to contend
with injuries, including knee and ankle problems that prevented
him from playing in the U.S. and British opens this year. After
missing the cut at the  PGA Championship , he didn’t play again
until October, when he tied for 30th in the Frys.com Open, a
lower-profile Fall Series event on the PGA Tour.  “I had to get healthy and to where I was strong and
explosive again so I could practice,” he said. “Then my
practice sessions started building and building. Then I would
play a couple of tournaments here and there, and each tournament
I started getting better, starting at the Frys.”  After losing sponsorships with companies including  AT&T
Inc. (T) ,  Accenture Plc (ACN)  and  PepsiCo Inc. ’s Gatorade brand, Woods has
begun to turn around his off-course interests as well. He agreed
in October to endorse luxury watchmaker Rolex Group, his first
major endorsement since the scandals, and signed an accord on
Nov. 10 with sports nutrition company Fuse Science Inc., which
sponsors his golf bag.  In addition to switching to  Joe LaCava  from longtime caddie
 Steve Williams  this year, Woods has also been working on swing
changes with  Sean Foley , who replaced  Hank Haney  as his coach
last year. The new moves are beginning to feel more natural, he
said.  “I was very committed to each and every shot, whether it
was going to end great or not,” Woods said of his play this
week. “When I was coming down the stretch there I felt so
comfortable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 