-- 
Aditya Puri Shunning Mobile Phone Wants HDFC Bank to Emulate Wells Fargo

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-12-05T04:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/india-s-puri-shunning-mobile-phone-wants-hdfc-bank-to-emulate-wells-fargo.html
Aditya Puri, the longest-serving head
of an Indian bank, avoids e-mail and doesn’t carry a mobile
phone. That hasn’t stopped  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  from becoming the
country’s second-biggest lender by market value.  “Banking is a simple business -- you be too aggressive, it
will come back and bite you on your backside,” Puri, 61, said
in an interview in his sparsely decorated office at the bank’s
Mumbai headquarters, sunlight streaming onto uncarpeted floors.  The managing director, who doesn’t wear a watch and goes
home for lunch most days, said he shuns e-mail because most
correspondence amounts to “cover your ass” measures that
aren’t directed at getting results.  Under Puri, lured from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to set up HDFC Bank
in 1994, the firm has posted profit increases of at least 30
percent in each of the past 10 years. It has built its credit-
card and consumer-lending businesses into  India ’s largest,
steering clear of losses in those areas incurred by rivals such
as  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , also based in Mumbai, and Citigroup, the
biggest foreign bank by assets.  HDFC Bank, which briefly eclipsed government-owned  State
Bank of India (SBIN)  as the country’s largest lender by market value
last month, is the second-best performer on the BSE India Bankex
over the past year after its stock declined about 3 percent,
compared with a 26 percent fall in the 14-company  index. (BANKEX)  HDFC
Bank trades at a price-to-book ratio of 4.4, more than double
ICICI Bank’s 1.6. The shares fell 0.2 percent to 465 rupees as
of 9:28 a.m. today.  Wells Fargo Model  Now Puri is expanding in  investment banking , hiring  Rakesh Singh  from Rothschild in April and saying he wants to be among
the top two or three players advising on mergers and
acquisitions, project finance and debt sales within three years.
He’s also seeking to emulate San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , the fourth-largest U.S. bank by assets, by selling new
products to existing customers to increase profitability.  “I’m a long way before I achieve the Wells Fargo kind of
model,” said Puri, who worked at Citigroup for almost 20 years,
rising to chief executive officer of Citibank Malaysia before
starting HDFC Bank. “But the good part is that if I keep mining
my existing customers, that should almost provide me 50 percent
of earnings growth going forward.”  The bank, which is adding almost 2 million customers a
year, according to Puri, has more than doubled lending to
consumers since 2008. That business now accounts for about half
of the bank’s total loan book, while ICICI Bank has cut consumer
lending by a third, to 35 percent of its portfolio.  ‘Quarterly Consistency’  “HDFC Bank has had the same quarterly consistency in terms
of credit growth across credit cycles,” said Kalpana Morparia,
CEO of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s India unit. “I don’t know of any
other bank globally that’s done that.”  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the second-largest foreign bank in India
by number of branches, has had more than five years of losses in
its retail-lending business in the country and is now operating
at “virtually break-even,” India CEO Stuart Davis said in an
interview in August.  CitiFinancial Consumer Finance India, the Citigroup
subsidiary that focuses on home and personal loans, has cut its
branches in the country to less than 100 from a peak of 450 in
2007. The business returned to profitability last year after
losing 7.3 billion rupees ($142.1 million) on revenue of 24.3
billion rupees in the 12 months ended March 2009 and 4.59
billion rupees in 2010.  ICICI Bank, India’s third-largest publicly traded lender,
reported its biggest decline in quarterly profit in more than
six years in 2009 as it set aside funds for bad debt and curbed
loans to avoid defaults.  Lending Caution  Puri, a graduate of Punjab University and a chartered
accountant who keeps an autographed copy of Michael Lewis’s
“The Big Short” in his office, has earned a reputation for
lending caution. The bank’s bad-loan ratio was 0.2 percent in
the quarter ended in September, a fourth of ICICI Bank’s and a
10th that of  State Bank .  HDFC Bank’s net interest margin -- the difference between
what it pays on deposits and charges for loans -- was 4.1
percent for the period compared with ICICI Bank’s 2.6 percent.
HDFC Bank, which has about two thirds of the assets of ICICI
Bank, has the second-highest net interest margin in the country
after  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB)   “The biggest quality of HDFC Bank is its ability to
control itself,” said  Samir Arora , founder of Helios Capital
Management Pte, a Singapore-based hedge fund whose top holding
is HDFC Bank. The bank “doesn’t feel left behind in the good
times because it does so much better in the bad times.”  50 Reports  HDFC Bank was set up by  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) ,
India’s biggest private mortgage lender, after the government
allowed companies not owned by the state to operate banks in the
early 1990s. HDFC remains the lender’s largest shareholder, with
more than 23 percent, and sells its home-loan products through
the bank.  “With prudent underwriting standards, a conservative
provisioning policy, high exposure to consumer credit that is
well diversified and a best-in-class, low-cost deposits
franchise, HDFC Bank fares exceptionally well in almost all the
parameters of our balance-sheet analysis,” Saikiran Pulavarthi,
a Mumbai-based analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank, wrote
in a Nov. 17 note to investors.  Puri, who said he reads about 50 reports a day from senior
managers, is known for delegating responsibility. In February
2008, on a weekend when HDFC Bank was in talks with Centurion
Bank of Punjab Ltd. to conclude India’s largest banking
acquisition, Puri was relaxing at his farmhouse on the outskirts
of Mumbai. He said he let Executive Director Paresh Sukthankar
complete the deal, which was announced after the weekend.  Quitting Time  “I have a very competent management team,” said Puri.
“We agree on what needs to be done, and they do it, and they
only call me if there’s a problem.”  If they call after work, they “better be very, very sure”
it is something crucial, he said.  Puri usually quits work at 5:30 p.m. He said he tries to
spend 45 minutes a day with his daughter, an actress who made
her Bollywood debut last year. He used to play golf, until a
shoulder injury forced him to quit, and he enjoys listening to
Urdu sonnets put to music, known as ghazals, and jazz. He’s also
fond of single-malt Scotch.  “I don’t know what people do working late,” Puri said.
“I can’t find work till 5:30. I’m probably finished by 4.”  Coconut Palm  Puri, whose compensation for the year that ended March 2010
was 39 million rupees, about a 25th of the $19 million that
Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf earned last year, is a man of simple
taste, said Neeraj Swaroop, who used to be in charge of retail
banking at HDFC Bank and is now CEO for South Asia at London-
based  Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)  Swaroop said that on a team visit
to a village in south India Puri’s love for street food led the
group of bankers to cancel dinner plans at a fancy restaurant in
favor of eating fish and drinking locally brewed alcohol made
from coconut palm at a more rustic place.  The next few years may test Puri’s laid-back style. Higher
borrowing costs and a slowdown in economic growth as India’s
central bank raises rates to curb inflation could lead to an
increase in bad loans.  “HDFC has the highest exposure to retail credit with 41
percent of its asset book comprising of retail credit,”
Espirito Santo’s Pulavarthi wrote. “Home loans constitute only
18 percent of its retail loan book implying that exposure to
riskier consumer products like cars, CV, credit cards and
personal loans is the highest among all the banks in India.”  Goldman Sachs, Tata  To become a top player in investment banking, Puri will
have to compete with foreign rivals such as  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley, as well as domestic conglomerates
including  Tata Group (TATA)  and  Religare Enterprises Ltd. (RELG) , controlled
by the billionaire Singh brothers. While he said he wants to be
a leader in M&A work in India in the next two or three years,
HDFC Bank is not now ranked among the top 72 firms, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  There also may be more competition in the consumer-lending
business as India’s central bank is considering issuing new
banking licenses after a seven-year hiatus. Meanwhile, Standard
Chartered, HSBC and Citigroup, the foreign banks with the
biggest presence in India, continue to add branches as they
target middle- and high-income consumers.  Foreign banks have a combined market share of 4.9 percent
in lending and 4.4 percent of deposits in the South Asian
nation, according to data from the  Reserve Bank  of India.  ‘No Competition’  Puri said new local banks won’t be competition.  “Will they make a difference to the banking landscape for
the next 10 years with new bank licenses?” he said. “The
answer is no. First they have to get a license. Then they have
to set up basic infrastructure. Then they have to start the
business. Then they have to decide which business they’re going
to grow in. Then they have to spend the money to grow in that
business.”  In a nation where more than 50 percent of the population
lives outside the main cities, any new bank also would need a
strategy for tapping that market, he said. HDFC Bank already has
a head start, having worked on rural expansion for the last
seven years, he said.  Investors including Helios Capital’s Arora say even
existing banks aren’t much of a threat.  “There’s no competition from any of the private-sector
banks,” Arora said. “Everybody wants the HDFC bank model --
consistency of earnings, be diversified in four or five
businesses, don’t do overdo things.”  No Global Ambitions  As for global ambitions, Puri said he doesn’t have any.
After opening branches in Bahrain and  Hong Kong  to serve Indians
working abroad and companies in need of trade financing, Puri
doesn’t intend to expand further. He said he wants to take on
only as much risk as will allow the depositor whose money he’s
using to sleep at night.  “If you go international today, you’re the one taking
higher risks,” he said. “To try and become a major bank is
very difficult with the new regulations. You’re getting a lower
return and you have a much better market here, so why would we
go?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  