-- 
India Advisers Say Modern Retailers Vital Amid Wal-Mart Conflict

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-12-04T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/india-advisers-say-modern-retailers-essential-amid-wal-mart-spat.html
Protests against foreign retailers in
 India  are “misconceived” as modernizing the trade is needed to
spur growth, said businessmen Deepak Parekh and Ashok Ganguly,
authors of a government report on investment from overseas.  Parekh, chairman of India’s largest mortgage lender, and
Ganguly, former chairman of  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , commented
as lawmakers and striking retailers seek to reverse a decision
to approve investment by companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   “Foreign direct investment in retail hasn’t been a sudden
decision taken by the government,” they said in a joint
statement e-mailed yesterday. “On the contrary, the idea has
been toyed with for over 14 years. Modernisation of the retail
trade is an essential part of India’s growth story.”  India may delay implementation of a Nov. 24 decision to
allow foreigners to own multi-brand retail chains until a
political consensus is reached, the  Press Trust of India  said
yesterday, citing West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.  Last month’s approval led to a nationwide strike on Dec. 1
by retail traders concerned they will be forced out of business
by competition from abroad, as well as eight days of protests by
lawmakers, who forced repeated adjournments in parliament.  “India always prided itself on its vibrant democracy,”
said Parekh, chairman of Housing Development Finance Corp., and
Ganguly. “It was large and noisy, but it worked. Today, there
is concern over India’s overall economic slowdown.”  Slowing Economy  The economy grew 6.9 percent last quarter, the slowest pace
in more than two years, after the central bank raised  interest
rates  by a record to try to tame inflation.  Foreign investment will create as many as 10 million jobs,
have a “multiplier effect” on growth and curb inflation,  Anand Sharma , the minister of commerce and industry, said on Nov. 25.  Sharma, Ambika Soni, the minister of information, Salman Khurshid, the minister of law, and Dinesh Trivedi, the minister
of railways and a member of Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress, didn’t
answer calls from Bloomberg to their office phones yesterday.  The retail industry will gain $8 billion to $10 billion in
investment in the next five to 10 years as competitors abroad
enter and local companies try to keep pace, said billionaire
Kishore Biyani, founder and managing director of  Pantaloon
Retail India Ltd. (PF) , the country’s largest chain by market value.  Parekh and Ganguly served on a government-appointed panel
that last year produced a report on foreign direct investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  