-- 
Italy Approves 30B-Euro Emergency Plan

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-12-04T20:39:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/italy-approves-30b-euro-emergency-plan.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
announced 30 billion euros ($40 billion) of austerity and growth
measures as he seeks to cut the euro-region’s second-biggest
debt and prevent a breakup of the euro.  Monti’s Cabinet in Rome passed the measures a day earlier
than planned as the new prime minister rushed to reassure
investors he is serious about taming a debt of almost 1.9
trillion euros. The premier will present the package, which
includes a tax on  luxury goods , resurrects a property levy on
first homes, and forces many workers to delay retirement, to
both houses of parliament tomorrow.  “The huge public debt of Italy isn’t the fault of Europe,
it’s the fault of Italians because in the past we didn’t pay
enough attention to the well being of the young and the future
adults of  Italy ,” Monti said at a press conference in Rome
today after his Cabinet passed the package.  Monti, sworn in on Nov. 16 after Silvio Berlusconi
resigned, is under pressure to move quickly as a selloff of the
country’s bonds sent borrowing costs surging last month past the
7 percent threshold that led Greece, Ireland and Portugal to
seek aid. Italy is seen as too big to bail out with 450 billion
euros of bonds maturing in the next three years, more than the
current size of the EU’s rescue fund.  ‘Tough Package’  “It’s a very tough package, but we don’t have any choice
except to pass it,”  Emma Marcegaglia , head of employers’ lobby
Confindustria, said in comments broadcast on Sky TG24 today
after meeting with Monti. “The plan is key to saving Italy and
preventing the collapse of the euro.”  The plan includes 20 billion euros of austerity measures
and another 10 billion euro of proposals that aim to boost
growth of an economy where expansion has lagged the European
averaged for more than a decade.  The package touches on all aspects of Italian society with
items aimed at shrinking the size of the government, raising the
 retirement age , forcing all transactions of more than 1,000
euros to be done electronically to fight  tax evasion , an
increase of the sales tax of two percentage points, and tax
breaks for companies that hire young workers and women.  The Italian budget package comes at the start of a critical
week for Europe’s efforts to end the debt crisis and prevent
Italy and Spain from succumbing and causing a breakup of the
single currency. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meets French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  tomorrow to advance a plan for
stricter enforcement of the region’s deficit rules that will be
presented to European Leaders at a summit on Dec. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  