-- 
Italians Pass on Prosecco in Worst Christmas Since WWII: Retail

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-12-04T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/italians-pass-on-prosecco-in-worst-christmas-since-world-war-ii-retail.html
Instead of prosecco and panettone,
 Italy ’s Christmas will feature house wine and tighter belts as
the country faces its worst holiday season in 60 years.  “Consumers just don’t have faith in tomorrow,” said
Pietro Giordano, secretary general of Rome-based consumer group
Adiconsum. Sales over the Christmas period may decline as much
as 15 percent from a year ago, the biggest drop since World War
II, Giordano said in a telephone interview.  Many Italians will spend their “tredicesima,” a December
bonus equivalent to a 13th month’s salary, to pay bills rather
than buy many gifts, he said. Those who can afford to spend are
likely to trade down or hunt for a discounted Gucci handbag
instead of the Jackie shoulder bag with tassels and light gold
fastenings starting at $2,270.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti  announced 30 billion euros ($40
billion) of austerity and growth measures last night as he seeks
to cut the euro-region’s second-biggest debt and prevent a
breakup of the euro. The measures, including a tax on  luxury
goods  and delayed retirement for many workers, were passed as
the new prime minister rushed to reassure investors he is
serious about taming a debt of almost 1.9 trillion euros.  Italian shoppers may cut budgets by 2.3 percent to 625
euros to spend on gifts, extra food for festive meals and
entertainment during the Christmas season, according to Deloitte
LLP. That’s almost three times the 0.8 percent decline predicted
for  Europe  as a whole.  Blue Christmas  Consumer confidence  in Italy is at the lowest point in the
Christmas survey, now in its 14th edition, said Dario Righetti,
a Deloitte partner in Milan, in a telephone interview. Spending
on gifts will fall the most, with a 3.2 percent drop.  “I’m only going to be buying presents for the kids this
year,” said Manuela De Luca, a 33-year-old self-employed
lawyer, outside  Benetton Group SpA (BEN) ’s flagship store near Milan’s
14th century cathedral. “I’m concerned about the future and
what’s going to happen next year.”  Shopkeepers share the pessimism, with an index of
retailers’ confidence falling to the lowest since March 2009 in
November. Retail sales for September, the most recent period
reported, declined 1.6 percent from a year earlier, led by
shoes and household appliances.  No Cheer  “The fact it’s Christmas isn’t going to change anything,”
said Tiziana De Pascalis, who runs a corner grocery shop in
Milan’s Sempione district where sales are down at least 40
percent. “We’ve only seen growth for the past 15, 16, 17 years,
but that’s changed and people just aren’t coming in.”  Carrefour SA (CA) , which is featuring bottles of Verdicchio for
1.49 euros, said Oct. 13 that sales in Italy declined 6.2
percent in the first nine months of the year.  The French retailer promises in its Christmas “Carrefour
costs less” advertisements that “prices are near zero.”  Sergio Menegazzo, whose family owns the Smile chain as well
as running a high-end restaurant and food hall at Gruppo Coin
SpA’s Excelsior department store in Milan, said in an interview
that supermarket shoppers in the Veneto region are cutting back
on food spending.  “People are eating less pasta than a year ago,” Menegazzo
said. “They don’t buy pasta topping. They put off buying
mayonnaise.”  Some Italian families celebrate Christmas Eve, “La
Vigilia,” with a seven-fish feast. The consumer group
movimentoconsumatori.it estimates households may spend 1,000
euros on Christmas presents and food for Dec. 24 and 25.  The biggest ticket menu items for a family of eight are
seafood antipasti at more than 50 euros; bass, bream and salmon
for 35 euros; and clams with spaghetti at 24 euros.  And that panettone, a sweet bread studded with raisins,
will set Italian consumers back 4.99 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  