-- 
Italian Cabinet Said Likely to Approve $32 Billion Austerity Package Today

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-12-04T12:09:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/italy-cabinet-said-likely-to-approve-eu24-billion-plan-to-help-finances.html
The Italian cabinet may approve
budget cuts and tax increases valued at 24 billion euros ($32
billion) as soon as today to shore up the country’s finances,
two people with knowledge of the matter said.  A cabinet meeting is likely to be held as soon as this
afternoon to approve austerity cuts and measures to boost
growth, the people said, declining to be named because the plan
is not public yet.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , sworn in on Nov. 16.
after  Silvio Berlusconi  resigned amid the deepening debt crisis,
is under pressure to reassure markets as a selloff of the
country’s bonds sent borrowing costs surging last month past the
7 percent threshold that led  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to
seek aid. Monti hasn’t yet disclosed details of the budget plan.  The budget plan will probably include an increase of the
main income tax on the highest income bracket, new taxes on
boats and other  luxury goods  and an overhaul of the pension
system that will delay early retirement, the people said.  The government will also try to align the  retirement age 
for women with that of men by 2018, the people said, adding that
Monti also plans to re-introduce the so-called ICI tax on main
properties to bring in at least 3.5 billion euros a year.  The Ansa newswire yesterday reported that the Italian
cabinet may meet today.  Bonds Rally  Italian 10-year bonds last week rallied for the first week
in eight as optimism that France and  Germany  are aligned on
measures to stem the euro-area debt crisis boosted demand for
the region’s higher-yielding assets.  Italian 10-year yields fell 58 basis points over the week
to 6.68 percent, narrowing the yield difference over similar-
maturity German bunds by 45 basis points to 4.55 percentage
points.  Monti has met with representatives of the main political
parties to build support as his government is scheduled to
present the package to both chambers on Dec. 5.  “Medicine is always bitter, but sometimes it’s necessary
to prevent the patient from dying,” Pierferdinando Casini, head
of the Union of Centrists party, said yesterday after meeting
with Monti.  The measures the new government plans to take are
“severe” and necessary to “make  Italy  better,” the leader of
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party,  Angelino Alfano , said
yesterday after the talks. “Monti has been called in precisely
to take decisions which are far from easy, and we are aware of
this,” he said.  The government’s proposals are ‘indigestible,” and “we
are ready to counter the wrong decisions” that will be made,
Susanna Camusso, head of Italy’s biggest union, CGIL, said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  