-- 
Japan Futures Little Changed Ahead of Euro Summit; Australian Shares Rise

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-12-04T23:56:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/japan-futures-little-changed-ahead-of-euro-summit-australian-shares-rise.html
Australian shares rose, driven by
energy producers on the outlook for higher commodity prices.
Japanese  stock (MXAP)   futures  were little changed ahead of a European
summit this week where the region’s leaders will seek to resolve
their sovereign-debt crisis.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s biggest oil producer and the
world’s No. 1 mining company by market value, jumped 1.5 percent
in Sydney. Rival miner Rio Tinto Group rose 0.7 percent.
American depositary receipts of Honda Motor Co., Japan’s second-
largest carmaker by market value, fell 0.9 percent from the
closing price in Tokyo on Dec. 2. Sony Corp. which depends on
Europe for about 20 percent of its sales, slid 0.6 percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.6 percent today.
 Futures (TPX)  on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in December
were bid in the pre-market at 8,680 in Osaka,  Japan , at 8:05 a.m.
local time. That compared with a closing level of 8,650 in
Chicago on Dec. 2 and 8,660 in Osaka. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.1 percent in Wellington.  “Expectations are mounting for this week’s European Union
summit, making the market sensitive to any negative factors,”
said Kenichi Hirano, general manager and strategist at Tachibana
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “They are likely to reach an agreement,
but domestic issues facing Germany and France may hamper the
process.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.8 percent
today. The  S&P 500 index  fell less than 0.1 percent on Dec. 2,
wiping out an early rally, as a drop in the jobless rate to a
two-year low wasn’t enough to extend the biggest weekly advance
since March 2009.  Euro Rises  The euro rose versus the yen after two people familiar with
this week’s Europe negotiations said a proposal to channel
European Central Bank loans through the  International Monetary
Fund  may deliver as much as 200 billion euros ($268 billion) to
fight the crisis. The yen fell against all 16 of its most-traded
peers.  The yen fell 0.3 percent to 104.75 per euro as of 8:53 a.m.
in  Tokyo .  “The ECB is prepared to do more as long as politicians get
their fiscal house in order, so everything points in the
direction of something big coming out of this week’s meeting,”
said Khoon Goh, head of market economics and strategy at ANZ
National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “In the early part of this
week, we will continue to see risk appetite improve.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meets French President
Nicolas Sarkozy today to advance a plan for stricter enforcement
of the region’s deficit rules that will be presented to European
Leaders at a summit on Dec. 8.  Italian Cuts  Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti announced yesterday 30
billion euros of austerity and growth measures. The premier will
present the package, which includes a tax on  luxury goods ,
resurrects a property levy on first homes, and forces many
workers to delay retirement, to both houses of parliament today.  At a Nov. 29 meeting attended by ECB President  Mario Draghi ,
euro-area finance ministers gave the go-ahead for work on an IMF
loans plan, said the people familiar with the talks, who
declined to be named because the talks are at an early stage.
Under the proposal, national central banks would recycle funds
through the IMF, potentially to underwrite precautionary lending
programs for Italy or Spain, the people said.  Hedge funds  boosted wagers on higher  commodity  prices for
the first time in three weeks as the outlook for the  U.S.
economy  improved.  Money managers increased combined bullish positions across
18 U.S. futures and options by 0.7 percent to 566,494 contracts
in the week ended Nov. 29, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. Investors trimmed their bearish holdings in copper
for the first time in four weeks, and pared bets on lower wheat
and soybean prices.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 15 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 1.1 percent drop by the S&P
500 and a 13 percent slump by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.9 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.6 times for the S&P 500
and 10.6 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  