-- 
Positive Slovenia Party Wins, Faces Rising Debt, Recession

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-12-05T14:17:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/ljubljana-mayor-jankovic-has-surprise-lead-in-slovenia-vote-2-.html
The  Positive Slovenia  party of
Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic, which won a surprise electoral
victory, needs to persuade potential coalition partners the two-
month-old party can tackle rising debts and a faltering  economy .  Jankovic, the former head of retailer  Mercator Poslovni
Sistem (MELR)  d.d., led his party to victory with 28.5 percent, while
opposition leader  Janez Jansa ’s Slovenian Democratic Party came
in second with 26.3 percent, the  electoral commission  said after
polls closed in yesterday’s snap elections.  Slovenia, the first former communist country to adopt the
euro, is struggling with the euro region’s sovereign debt
crisis, which erodes demand for its exports. It risks sliding
back into recession as borrowing costs surge to records, while
public debt may widen to more than 50 percent next year.  “I’m aware of the seriousness of Slovenia’s position and
if I didn’t believe that we can do it, then I wouldn’t be
standing here today,” Jankovic, 58, told cheering supporters at
a rally in central Ljubljana after the results.  The debt crisis that has roiled European markets and sent
yields soaring is also taking its toll on political leaders.
Pahor is among six European Union leaders who have already given
up power, while Slovakia will hold its own snap election in
March. In neighboring  Croatia , a former federal partner in the
defunct  Yugoslavia , an opposition alliance toppled the
government in scheduled elections last night.  Mercator Experience  “As investors, we can only see the track record of the
company Mercator. It is a good company and this speaks for the
quality of Mr. Jankovic,” said  Lutz Roehmeyer , a  fund manager 
at  Landesbank Berlin  Invest in Berlin who oversees 11.5 billion
euros ($15.3 billion) and holds Slovenian bonds. “The change in
leadership is a first step, but what we need to see are now
clear steps in cutting budget expenses and reforms to foster
growth.”  Slovenian notes maturing in 2021 advanced, paring an
earlier drop and pushing the yield down 6 basis points to 6.65
percent at 3:17 p.m. in Ljubljana, from 6.71 percent on Dec. 2,
according to Bloomberg data. A basis point is a hundredth of a
percentage point.  The economy shrank 0.5 percent in the third quarter from a
year before, following growth of 0.8 percent in the previous
three-month period and public debt has more than doubled in four
years.  Recession Risk  The risk of recession “has risen greatly,” Michal Dybula,
an economist at BNP Paribas in Warsaw wrote in a Nov. 29 note to
clients.  “The focus of economic policy will be on reducing the
fiscal deficit in line with the Excessive Deficit Procedure of
the EU,”  Goran Saravanja , chief economist at Zagrebacka Banka
d.d., a unit of  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Zagreb, wrote in a note to
clients today. In the ongoing crisis in Europe “government
financing pressures within the core as well as the periphery of
euro region are ever increasing, with any shortfalls in policy
being rapidly punished. The newly elected government will have
to act quickly to protect Slovenia against excessive
pressures.”  Jankovic started the political party on Oct. 11, saying
Slovenia should abandon old political divisions that led to the
ouster of Premier Borut Pahor. He campaigned on promises to
insulate the nation from the sovereign debt crisis, spur the
economy and work on changes in the pension and health systems.  Snap Election  The snap election was called after Pahor lost a Sept. 20
no-confidence vote triggered by coalition disputes over pension
changes and after voters rejected the extension of the
 retirement age  in a referendum. Pahor’s party garnered 10.5
percent.  Jankovic was chief executive officer of Mercator, the
Balkan region’s largest supermarket chain, for eight years,
stepping down in 2005. He became mayor of the capital city a
year later and won re-election in 2010.  The euro area’s troubles will be solved and the bloc will
survive, Jankovic said.  “The euro is fighting its first big crisis but it will
endure,” he said in response to Bloomberg questions on Dec. 2.
“All of  Europe  should work toward that goal.”  Jansa, an ex-premier who led the former Yugoslav republic
into the euro region, conceded defeat and said the tight race
may result in a weak government and another round of early
elections.  President Danilo Turk said he hopes to designate a prime
minister by the end of the year, with a government in place by
early January. Jankovic, during comments after the vote, didn’t
suggest any possible coalition partners.  Coalition Building  “Talking about the prospects is also very hard because
Jankovic will not rule Slovenia on his own,” said Landesbank
Berlin’s Roehmeyer. “He has a very narrow lead in polls and
depending on the coalition, the parties will be nearly equal
partners.”  Jansa was slated to win the vote, with 31.4 percent
support, according to a Dec. 2 survey by polling agency
Ninamedia, according to Dnevnik newspaper. Jankovic’s party was
seen taking 23.3 percent and Pahor’s party had 12 percent, the
poll showed.  Voters were choosing candidates for the 88 seats in the 90-
member assembly as two seats are reserved for representatives of
the Italian and Hungarian minorities.  Worsening Outlook  Jankovic will need to tackle the worsening fiscal outlook
and the weakening  economy  as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President Nicholas Sarkozy muster support for closer
economic integration and tougher policing of fiscal rules.  The country, which had its  credit rating  cut by one level
to AA- by Standard’s and Poor and other ratings services, plans
to raise 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) in a Treasury bill
auction on Dec. 6.  If that fails, the  Finance Ministry  said it may opt to sell
bonds in the U.S., Japanese or Swiss debt markets. Yields on
Slovenia’s 10 year bonds surged to 7.77 percent on Nov. 11, two
days after Italian benchmark notes gained past the 7 percent
mark. Pressure on the yield of most euro-region nations,
including Slovenia’s, eased after central banks moved to improve
dollar liquidity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  