-- 
Kabila Leads in Congo Presidential Voting, Electoral Panel Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-12-04T22:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/kabila-leads-in-congo-presidential-voting-electoral-panel-says.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo
President  Joseph Kabila  was leading nearest rival Etienne Tshisekedi in voting with just more than half of election
stations reporting, the nation’s  Electoral Commission  said.  Kabila had 4.9 million votes to Tshisekedi’s 3.4 million as
53 percent of the sites reported results, Daniel Ngoy Mulunda,
leader of the Electoral Commission, told journalists today in
the capital, Kinshasa.  Kabila is facing 10 opponents in the vote, the country’s
second after more than 40 years of dictatorship and war.
Provisional results may be released Dec. 6, with final results
scheduled for Dec. 17.  Violence has marred the elections, with at least 18
civilians killed and 100 wounded from Nov. 26 to Nov. 28,
according to  Human Rights Watch . Most of the dead were shot by
the Republican Guard, Kabila’s security force, the New York-
based group said.  The  African Union , European Union and  United Nations  have
called for calm when results are announced. Any candidate
planning to contest the outcome should do so “exclusively
through the legal channels provided for this purpose,”  Jean Ping , the president of the AU Commission, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Results Rejected  Tshisekedi and his party rejected the preliminary results
in a joint statement with other main opposition parties
yesterday. The groups complained the figures were announced
without information identifying the polling stations the results
represent, making them impossible to verify.  Congo’s conference of bishops, which fielded more than
30,000 election observers, called on the commission today to
publish more information about the figures in a statement given
to reporters in Kinshasa.  The conference asked all candidates to accept the results,
while noting irregularities in the voting process, including
attempted fraud and violence.  Congo’s government has told telecommunications operators to
suspend mobile message service for reasons of “public order,”
because messaging was being used to incite hate, Congo’s Vice
Prime Minister for the Interior Adolphe Lumanu told Kinshasa-
based broadcaster Radio Okapi yesterday.  The conference of bishops called on political party
supporters and security forces to avoid more violence in the
coming days.  “We feel like there is a high-speed train heading straight
into a wall and there is no one stepping on the brakes,” Bishop
Nicolas Djomo, president of the bishop’s conference, told
reporters today in Kinshasa.  To contact the reporter on this story: Michael J. Kavanagh in
Kinshasa at   mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Paul
Richardson  at   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 