-- 
China Sets Conditions for Binding Climate Deal

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-12-04T13:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/kyoto-pledges-must-be-extended-past-2012-if-china-to-adopt-a-binding-deal.html
China  set out its conditions for
adopting a binding post-2020 greenhouse-gas commitment as part
of a global deal, demanding an extension of current pledges by
industrialized countries under the Kyoto Protocol beyond 2012.  Developing nations should be allowed to stick to voluntary
targets to limit pollution until a legally-binding treaty that
could take effect after 2020,  Xie Zhenhua , the head of the
Chinese delegation to the United Nations climate talks, said
after he arrived in Durban,  South Africa , for the second week of
the conference. China’s consent for the shift to mandatory goals
also hinges on climate aid from richer countries and a review of
actions taken by 2015, he said.  “If all the conditions are met, we’re open to the
process,” Xie told a briefing today. “For the new framework
after 2020, we must continue the  Kyoto Protocol , there must be a
second commitment period. If there’s no second commitment period
it’s not meaningful for us to talk about new framework. This is
the first condition.”  Envoys from 190 countries at United Nations global warming
talks this week in Durban are working to develop further action
on climate after the Kyoto Protocol’s limits on emissions expire
next year. Kyoto imposed targets on industrial nations, leaving
developing ones, including China, with voluntary measures.  Kyoto Pact  The U.S. never ratified Kyoto. Japan, Russia and  Canada  are
refusing to sign up to further commitments under Kyoto. The
European Union says it will only extend the pact if all other
nations agree to a “road map” pointing toward a new treaty
that would regulate emissions from both industrial and
developing countries.  “The convention and the Kyoto Protocol are both legally
binding, and now it’s time for us to see whether countries honor
their commitments,” Xie said. “The problem we are facing now
is whether we have implemented documents that we already had
consensus on. If we fail to implement the commitments we have
already agreed on, how can we build political trust among
countries?”  China and other developing nations made non-binding pledges
to reduce emissions at the UN talks in Cancun last year, where
developed nations also made pledges that are voluntary. Su said
it’s too early to say whether China would accept legally binding
commitments after 2020.  ‘First Time’  “That’s the first time that their conditions have been set
so clearly,” said Wendel Trio, director of Climate Action
Network  Europe , a green lobby group. “Despite some reports that
China may be softening its stance, Xie’s line was as hard as
ever. That may be strong language before the high-level part,
but for now it’s difficult to expect a compromise on the
post-2012 framework.”  Other Chinese conditions include the start of a climate
fund in Durban, fulfilment of a promise by developed nations to
provide aid to poorer countries, transparency in actions to
fight global warming, as well as accepting differing
responsibilities for rich and poorer nations, said Xie, who’s
vice chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission.  At the UN talks in Copenhagen two years ago, countries
agreed to set up a fund to channel up to $100 billion a year by
2020 to help poorer countries adapt to the effects of  climate
change . They also promised $30 billion in so-called “fast-
start” finance over the three years to 2012.  The high-level segment of the talks begins on Tuesday, when
ministers and some heads of state arrive in Durban. UN climate
chief Christiana Figueres said she was happy with the progress
made by negotiators to date.  “Their task is to narrow the range of options to give
clear political choices to the ministers on Tuesday,” she told
reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  