-- 
Nadal Beats Del Potro in Four Sets as Spain Wins Fifth Davis Cup Title

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-12-04T17:04:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/nadal-beats-del-potro-in-four-sets-as-spain-wins-fifth-davis-cup-title.html
Rafael Nadal  beat Argentina’s Juan Martin del Potro in four sets today to secure a fifth Davis Cup
tennis title for Spain.  Nadal, No. 2 in the ATP World Tour rankings, rallied from
losing the opening set to win 1-6, 6-4, 6-1, 7-6 (7-0) at the
Olympic Stadium in Seville.  “It was the most amazing atmosphere I have ever played
in,” Nadal told  Sky Sports . “The crowd were crazy. Everything
was perfect.”  Spain, which has now won the event three times in four
years, has an unassailable 3-1 lead in the best-of-five
competition.  David Ferrer  was due to play Argentina’s  Juan Monaco  in the final singles match.  Nadal, 25, remains unbeaten in Davis Cup singles since
losing his debut match in 2004.  He struggled in the first set today, losing six straight
games after taking the opener. He was then broken to love at the
start of the second set, but recovered and looked on course for
a comfortable win after taking a 2-sets-to-1 lead.  The 10-time Grand Slam champion started the fourth set with
another break, then held to love, but  Del Potro  rallied to 2-2.
The players swapped breaks in the next four games before Del
Potro, ranked No. 11, did so again to serve for the set.  Nadal fought back and after another break each the set went
to a tiebreak, which the Spaniard dominated.  “It was an unbelievable match,” Spain captain Albert Costa told Sky Sports. “He fought hard so that’s why we won.”  Spain established a 2-0 lead after the opening day, with
singles wins for Nadal and Ferrer. Argentina kept alive its
hopes yesterday with 6-4, 6-2, 6-3 victory for David Nalbandian
and Eduardo Schwank against Feliciano Lopez and Fernando Verdasco in the doubles.  Serbia is the only team other than  Spain  to win the Davis
Cup in the past four years. Spain only recorded its first
success in the competition in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  