-- 
New Zealand Third-Quarter Construction Falls to 10-Year Low

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-12-04T22:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/new-zealand-third-quarter-construction-falls-to-10-year-low-1-.html
New Zealand  construction fell to the
lowest level in more than 10 years in the third quarter, as
consumers and businesses curbed borrowing rather than invest in
new homes or office buildings.  The value of  construction  fell for a third straight
quarter, declining 2.3 percent to NZ$1.64 billion ($1.3
billion), the lowest since the first quarter of 2001,  Statistics
New Zealand  said in Wellington today. Residential building was
unchanged and non-residential work dropped 4.6 percent.  Falling construction is constraining growth in gross
domestic product, adding to the case for the New Zealand’s
central bank to keep  interest rates  unchanged until a recovery
strengthens. Central bank Governor Alan Bollard is expected to
leave the benchmark borrowing cost at a record-low 2.5 percent
at a meeting this week, with most economists predicting an
increase won’t happen until the second half of next year.  “While dwelling consent issuance appears to have troughed,
it will take another quarter or so before it feeds through into
improved construction activity,”  Philip Borkin , economist at
Goldman Sachs New Zealand Ltd., said in a note on Dec. 2. He
doesn’t expect a rate rise until the fourth quarter next year.  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed after the report,
buying 78.16 U.S. cents at 10:48 a.m. in Wellington.  House Building  Residential construction was unchanged after four straight
quarterly declines and is the lowest since 1993. The weakness
follows declines in home-building approvals, which slumped to a
record-low in the second quarter this year.  Household borrowing rose 1.2 percent in October from a year
earlier, matching the slowest pace since records began in 1991,
according to central bank figures.  Construction is expected to accelerate as rebuilding begins
in the South Island city of Christchurch and in some surrounding
towns in the Canterbury province after earthquakes the past 15
months wrecked homes, roads and commercial buildings.  Residential construction fell in Canterbury in the third
quarter while the rest of the nation posted a small rise, the
statistics agency said today. Non-residential building increased
in Canterbury and fell in the rest of the country, the agency
said. It doesn’t publish regional details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  