-- 
Oil Rises on Iran Tension, European Effort to Ease Sovereign-Debt Crisis

-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-12-05T07:30:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/oil-rises-in-new-york-amid-european-attempts-to-ease-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
Oil rose for a second day in New York
on concern that tension in the  Middle East  threatens supplies
and speculation that  Europe  will take steps to tame a debt
crisis that may curb economic growth.  West Texas Intermediate oil gained as much as 0.8 percent,
after posting the first weekly increase in three. Iran said
crude will surge above $250 a barrel if nations threaten to ban
its purchases, according to the Shargh newspaper. European
leaders will hold meetings this week as U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Tim Geithner  visits the region. Italian Prime Minister Mario
Monti yesterday announced 30 billion euros ($40 billion) of
austerity and growth measures.  “The Iranian tension is the main reason for driving WTI
back to $100 a barrel, because it’s not really in our opinion
being driven by improved demand expectations in the near term,”
Colin Whitehead, an analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney, said.
“If supply concerns pull back, we’d expect to see oil pull back
into the low $90s.”  Crude for January delivery climbed as much as 77 cents, or
0.8 percent, to $101.73 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange and was at $101.52 at 3:27 p.m.
 Singapore  time. Prices gained 4.3 percent last week, the first
increase since the period ended Nov. 11, and are up 14 percent
the past year.  Brent futures for January settlement rose 91 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $110.85 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract traded at a
premium of $9.33 a barrel to the U.S.-traded West Texas
Intermediate grade.  Iran Tension  Even verbal threats to block exports of Iranian oil will
cause crude prices to increase,  Ramin Mehmanparast , a Foreign
Ministry spokesman, told Tehran-based Shargh in an interview
published yesterday. Iran pumped 5 percent of the world’s oil
last year, according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World
Energy.  The European Union added 180 Iranian officials and
companies to a blacklist on Dec. 1 to try to pressure the
world’s third-largest crude exporter to curtail its nuclear
program. The U.S., U.K. and  Canada  announced measures on Nov. 21
making it harder for President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s government
to receive payments for crude exports, though they stopped short
of banning trade in Iranian oil.  “Geopolitical problems are very difficult to forecast,”
Dominic Schnider, the global head of commodity research for UBS
AG’s wealth-management unit in Singapore, said in a Bloomberg
television interview. “What you can say is prices are unlikely
to really drop heavily, given the uncertainty.”  Hedge Fund Bets  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased wagers on
rising crude prices by 2.6 percent in the seven days ended Nov.
29, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report Dec. 2. They had cut so-called
long positions, bets on rising oil, by the most since August the
previous week, the Washington-based CFTC said.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  arrives in
Frankfurt tomorrow to meet with political leaders and central
bankers. The  European Central Bank  has a policy meeting Dec. 8
and a European summit will be held Dec. 9.  “If Europe were to turn around and categorically resolve
their problems, then that would be positive for oil, but that’s
highly unlikely to occur,” said Whitehead. “It’s probably
going to be more positive statements without too much action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  