-- 
Honda Prays for End to Natural Disasters, U.S. Rebound Led by New Models

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-12-05T21:03:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/honda-prays-for-disaster-free-u-s-rebound.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  says replenished
vehicle inventory and new Honda and Acura models planned for the
next 24 months will spur a U.S. sales rebound next year after
natural disasters dashed its 2011 goals.  Honda’s loss of some North American output in October and
November due to parts shortages caused by floods in  Thailand  led
to it being the only large automaker to post a U.S. sales
decline last month as total sales jumped 14 percent. That came
after six months of declines resulting from reduced auto
inventory triggered by  Japan ’s March earthquake and tsunami.  “I’m going to the shrine to pray to avoid any more such
disasters from Mother Nature,” Tetsuo Iwamura, Honda’s top
North American executive, said in an interview on Dec. 2 in  Las
Vegas . “Next year, even starting this month, we’ll recover.”  Japan’s  third -largest automaker counts on the U.S. for the
largest portion of its global sales. Tight inventory and
competition from Ford Motor Co.,  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia
Motors Corp. (000270)  and others cut Tokyo-based Honda’s U.S. sales 5.3
percent through November.  While Honda’s market share has fallen to 9 percent from
10.5 percent so far in 2011, combined share for South Korean
affiliates Hyundai and Kia rose to 9 percent from 7.8 percent a
year ago.  “It is a year to forget, and then push the reset button,”
said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst with researcher IHS
Automotive. “We’re now seeing heavy replacement demand, so
there is a lot of sales opportunity out there.”  IHS Automotive estimates U.S. sales of new cars and trucks
will rise to about 13.3 million units in 2012, from about 12.7
million this year, she said.  ‘Outrageous’ Competition  “The competition is outrageous and it’s coming from every
part of the market,” Lindland said. “Every year we say this is
an incredibly competitive market, but this year we mean it.”  Honda’s immediate goal is to boost production of its new
Civic compact and CR-V compact sport-utility vehicle that goes
on sale this month, Iwamura said. The company starts December
with about a 40-day supply of vehicles, he said.  “Unfortunately, our competitors didn’t show us any
mercy,” Iwamura said. “They took as much market share from us
as they could. That’s the reality of the market. You have to
fight back.”  In 2012, the company releases a revamped Accord, Honda’s
top-selling U.S. nameplate, and other models Iwamura declined to
identify. “Fortunately, we are going to have lots more models
in the next 24 months,” he said.  New Engines, Hybrids  Vehicles coming out next year will also begin powered by
new four- and six-cylinder engines and transmissions Honda
unveiled last week at the Tokyo Motor Show, claiming they will
lead the industry in  fuel efficiency .  The company also will add new hybrid models from next year
that will boost its reputation for  fuel-efficiency  and advanced
technology, he said.  “New models with good technology, yet very value-oriented
pricing for the sake of competitiveness,” said Iwamura, 60.
“That is our key for a successful year in 2012 and onwards.”  Sales of the new Civic, released this year, will continue
to increase and haven’t really been hurt by some critical
reviews, he said.  “In November, Civic was the number one selling compact
vehicle,” Iwamura said. “Customers still believe in the
Civic.”  The 2012 Civic failed to receive the “recommended” status
from Consumer Reports magazine. The revamped model “ranks near
the bottom of its category,”  David Champion , senior director of
the magazine’s auto test center, said in an Aug. 1 e-mailed
statement.  Honda’s U.S. headquarters are based in Torrance,
 California . The company’s American depositary receipts rose 0.5
percent to $31.63 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Las Vegas at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  