-- 
Hong Kong Sees 20 IPOs From Mainland by Dec. 31: China Overnight

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-12-04T16:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/hong-kong-sees-20-ipos-from-mainland-by-dec-31-china-overnight.html
As many as 20 Chinese companies plan
initial public offerings in Hong Kong by year-end and more non-
state businesses are preparing to follow government-owned peers
to seek listings, an executive of the city’s exchange said.  While about 110 companies are seeking approval to list
their shares and about 40 have permission to go ahead, between
10 and 20 firms, mostly from the mainland, are likely to
complete IPOs by Dec. 31, said Lawrence Fok, chief marketing
officer for the Hong Kong Exchange and Clearing Ltd. Hong Kong’s
 benchmark measure for mainland companies (HSCEI)  climbed more than 10
percent last week while the Bloomberg China-US 55 Index of
Chinese stocks in the U.S. rose 6.5 percent.  Listings by mainland companies in Hong Kong fell this year
from the same period in 2010 as  China , the world’s second-
largest economy, grew at the slowest pace since 2009. Privately-
owned consumer companies are raising funds on the city’s market
as China encourages domestic consumption, Fok said.  “Even if more and more state-owned enterprises are listing
on our exchange, the next big wave will be the private
enterprises,” Fok said in an interview Dec. 2  in New York.
“Some very successful private enterprises, especially in the
consumer business, are looking to tap the  capital market .”  Altogether, 61 mainland companies raised $14.3 billion
through initial public offerings on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange
through November this year, compared with $49.1 billion by 75
firms in the same period a year ago, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A total of 86 companies brought in $53.4 billion
on the exchange for the full year of 2010.  ‘Last Train’  China’s economy  expanded 9.1 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, down from 9.5 in the second. Growth will
slow to 8.5 percent next year, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said Nov. 29, down from its May
forecast of 9.2 percent.  Some companies are in a rush to catch “the last train” in
2011 for IPOs even amid “poor” market conditions on concern
that 2012 might be worse, Francis Lun, managing director at
Lyncean Holdings Ltd. in  Hong Kong  said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television Nov. 29. “If you get the money now, you
can do a lot of things. You can buy distressed assets, for
example.”  In the U.S., 10 companies from the greater China area are
waiting to offer shares on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange, the bourse
said in an e-mail Dec. 2. Eight Chinese companies have completed
their IPOs on the Nasdaq this year, the bourse said.  Asian Listing  “In the long run, it probably makes more sense for
companies domiciled in  Asia  to get listed in Asia,” as it will
help investors to get peer comparisons, greater liquidity and
an in-depth investor base, said  John Wong , a Hong Kong-based
portfolio manager at Oberweis Asset Management Inc. Nov. 30 in
New York.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. pared its weekly advance on Dec. 2 with a
decline of 0.8 percent, led by a drop in  Aluminum Corp. of China
Ltd. (ACH) , also known as Chalco, and  Changyou.com Ltd. (CYOU)  The gauge is
down 4 percent this year, compared with an 18 percent decline
for the Hang Seng China Enterprise Index and a 16 percent drop
for the  Shanghai Composite Index. (SHCOMP)   The Bloomberg measure for U.S.-traded Chinese stocks posted
the biggest weekly gain in seven after China reduced its  reserve
requirements  for banks for the first time since 2008. Policy
makers on Nov. 30 acted to provide more liquidity to the system
to shore up economic growth as the  property market  cooled and
the European crisis eroded exports. A Dec. 1 report showed
manufacturing contracted last month for the first time since
February 2009.  U.S. Employment  Also on Nov. 30, the  Federal Reserve  and five other central
banks who cut the costs of emergency dollar funding to European
lenders to alleviate a credit crunch. The U.S. Labor Department
said Dec. 2 the jobless rate unexpectedly fell last month to the
lowest level since March 2009.  Youku Inc., China’s biggest online-video website, surged 27
percent last week to $19.91, leading gainers in the week among
companies the Bloomberg benchmark.  Sina Corp., the owner of China’s Twitter-like Weibo
service, climbed 8.5 percent in the past five trading days to a
two-week high of $68.52. Deutsche Bank AG raised its rating for
Sina on Dec. 1 to “buy” from “hold” with a 12-month target
of $94.80.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , the nation’s largest offshore oil producer,
jumped 12 percent last week, the most in five, to $192.71. The
company completed its acquisition of OPTI Canada Inc., an oil
sand project developer, it said Nov. 28.  Cyclical Rebound  Chinese financial companies and commodity producers will
benefit most from a potential cyclical rebound in the economy,
Hao Hong, Beijing-based global equity strategist at China
International Capital Corp., said on Bloomberg Television Dec.
2.  The  ishares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 9.2 percent last week
to $36.40. The Chinese yuan strengthened 0.2 percent during the
period to 6.3597 per dollar, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System.  The government is scheduled to report November inflation
rate and production figures this week. The increase in consumer
prices may slow to 4.5 percent last month from a year ago, the
median estimate of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg showed.
That would compare with 5.5 percent in October and a three-year
high of 6.5 percent in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  