-- 
Monti’s Austerity Debut Risks Italian Wrath

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-12-05T13:25:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/monti-s-debut-austerity-package-risks-rousing-italian-wrath-euro-credit.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is asking
Italians to swallow 30 billion euros ($40 billion) in additional
emergency economic measures even as the nation’s fifth recession
in the last decade looms next year.  Monti, whose Cabinet approved the package yesterday, is due
to present the plan to the legislature at 4 p.m. in Rome, with
Parliament voting on it in the coming weeks. The premier has
vowed “shared sacrifices” to cut the euro area’s second-
biggest debt and regain investor confidence after Italian
borrowing costs topped the 7 percent that led  Greece , Ireland
and  Portugal  to seek aid. Italy’s 10-year yield declined 52
basis points to 6.16 percent, its biggest drop in four months.  “The huge public debt of  Italy  isn’t the fault of  Europe ,
it’s the fault of Italians,” Monti, who took over last month
after former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  resigned, told a news
conference as he detailed the package yesterday. “Together, we
will make it.”  Italian bonds have snapped a seven-week decline amid
optimism that European policy makers may take steps to ease the
crisis summits this week, with the 10-year yield  difference  to
German bunds down by a percentage point in the past week to 3.94
points. Italy is still paying the highest rates in more than a
decade on its debt, and offered more than 7 percent on new bonds
for the third time in a week on Nov. 29.  Monti’s plan ties pensions to contributions rather than a
worker’s last salary, resurrects property taxes and includes a
levy on  luxury goods . Monti’s task in pushing through Italy’s
third austerity package since July may be complicated by a
recession next year and road bumps in Parliament and in the
streets as protesters rally over a perceived lack of fairness.  ‘Baby Pension’  “You can’t choke the economy by imposing more taxes to
keep paying  Mario Draghi ’s pension,” Edward Luttwak, a senior
associate at the Center for Strategic and International Studies,
a policy institute in  Washington , said on Sky TG24 on Dec. 1.
“Draghi gets a ‘baby pension’ of about 15,000 euros a month
from the Italian Treasury” and “only by cutting these ‘golden
pensions’ will the government be in a position to be more
rigorous with other people’s pensions.”  European Central Bank President Draghi’s early retirement
from the Treasury, which he left in 2001, is an example of the
privileges enjoyed by officials in the state administration. A
spokesman for INPDAP, the public-sector pension agency, declined
to comment on Draghi’s pension, which was reported by journalist
Mario Giordano in his book “Bloodsuckers: How Golden Pensions
Are Bleeding Us Dry.”  Eliminating ‘Privileges’  Monti, without giving further details, told reporters the
new package will eliminate some pension “privileges.” He also
said that in solidarity with Italians making sacrifices, he
would give up his salary as premier and finance minister.  Draghi had to take a 50 percent pay cut when he joined the
ECB from the  Bank of Italy , where he earned 757,714 euros last
year as governor. That’s five times as much as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s salary. The average monthly gross
salary for an Italian is 2,033 euros, according to statistics
office Istat.  “To reduce waste would require intervening decisively on
the privileges that thousands of laws guarantee state workers,”
author Giordano said in an e-mail. “In Sicily, there’s a law
that allows” civil servants “to retire at age 40 with just 20
years of contributions.”  Lawmakers Change  The speakers of both houses of Parliament  agreed  on Nov. 29
to calculate lawmakers’ pensions based on contributions rather
than on their last income. The change takes effect Jan. 1 and
mirrors measures in yesterday’s package, which also aligns men
and women’s retirement age at 66 starting in 2018 and eliminated
the inflation index on all but the lowest pensions.  Monti’s measures were welcomed by  Angelino Alfano , the
leader of Berlusconi’s party, and also received qualified
backing from Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani.  Unions were less supportive. The plan is “indigestible,”
and “we are ready to counter the wrong decisions,” said
Susanna Camusso, head of Italy’s biggest union, CGIL. The group
led a nationwide general strike against austerity cuts in
September and has vowed to take to the streets again if its
demands aren’t met. Thirty police and 20 protesters were hurt in
a separate Oct. 15 protest in  Rome  that turned violent.  Monti’s package, 10 billion euros of which seek to boost
growth, touches on all aspects of society. Items are aimed at
shrinking the size of the government, forcing transactions of
more than 1,000 euros to be done electronically to fight  tax
evasion , raising the  sales tax  by two percentage points, and
giving tax breaks to companies to hire young workers and women.  Looming Recession  Italy’s economy, whose growth has trailed the EU average
for more than decade, will contract 0.4 percent to 0.5 percent
next year, Deputy Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  told the news
conference. That would be the fifth recession since 2001.  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party, the biggest in
Parliament, said last month it would back Monti, though only to
implement austerity measures announced before the former premier
resigned on Nov. 12. Berlusconi also said his party opposes any
new levy on wealth or high earners. Grilli said yesterday new
taxes will mostly affect assets and the wealth.  “Parliamentary backing for Monti will fragment as special
interest groups seek to defend their positions,” said  Stephen Lewis , London-based chief economist at Monument Securities. “It
seems likely market confidence will erode in the course of his
legislative efforts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  