-- 
Italy Approves 30B-Euro Emergency Plan

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-12-04T21:26:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/monti-s-cabinet-likely-to-approve-32-billion-italian-austerity-plan-today.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
announced 30 billion euros ($40 billion) of austerity and growth
measures as he seeks to cut the euro-region’s second-biggest
debt and prevent a breakup of the euro.  Monti’s Cabinet in Rome passed the measures a day earlier
than planned as the new prime minister rushed to reassure
investors he is serious about taming a debt of almost 1.9
trillion euros. The premier will present the package, which
includes more than 12 billion euros in spending cuts, to both
houses of parliament tomorrow.  “The huge public debt of Italy isn’t the fault of Europe,
it’s the fault of Italians because in the past we didn’t pay
enough attention to the well being of the young and the future
adults of  Italy ,” Monti said at a press conference in Rome
today after his Cabinet passed the package.  Monti, sworn in on Nov. 16 after  Silvio Berlusconi 
resigned, is under pressure to move quickly as a selloff of the
country’s bonds sent borrowing costs surging last month past the
7 percent threshold that led Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to
seek aid. Italy is seen as too big to bail out with 450 billion
euros of bonds maturing in the next three years, more than the
current size of the EU’s rescue fund.  Tears at Briefing  Monti’s Cabinet adopted the measures after a three-hour
meeting in Rome and then presented the plan in an emotional two-
hour press conference. Labor Minister Elsa Fornero broke into
tears as she described the sacrifices the government was asking
workers to make and explained that all but the lowest pensions
would no longer be indexed to inflation.  The plan includes 20 billion euros of austerity measures
and another 10 billion euro of proposals that aim to boost
growth of an economy whose expansion has trailed the European
averaged for more than a decade. Italy’s economy will contract
0.4 percent to 0.5 percent in 2012, Deputy Economy Minister
Vittorio Grill said at the press conference.  The package touches on all aspects of Italian society with
items aimed at shrinking the size of the government, raising the
 retirement age , forcing all transactions of more than 1,000
euros to be done electronically to fight  tax evasion , an
increase of the sales tax of two percentage points, and tax
breaks for companies that hire young workers and women.  Tax Increases  The government dropped a plan to raise the  tax rate  on
Italy’s highest earners, though it will increase levies on
 luxury goods  and resurrect a property tax on first homes.  “It’s a very tough package, but we don’t have any choice
except to pass it,”  Emma Marcegaglia , head of employers’ lobby
Confindustria, said in comments broadcast on Sky TG24 today
after meeting with Monti. “The plan is key to saving Italy and
preventing the collapse of the euro.”  The Italian budget package comes at the start of a critical
week for  Europe ’s efforts to end the debt crisis and prevent
Italy and  Spain  from succumbing and causing a breakup of the
single currency. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meets French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  tomorrow to advance a plan for
stricter enforcement of the region’s deficit rules that will be
presented to European Leaders at a summit on Dec. 8.  Markets tension eased last week as investors bet that the
summit would make progress on unifying budget policy that could
leave for more robust support from the  European Central Bank  or
eventual issuance of euro-region bonds.  Bond Rally  Italian 10-year bonds rallied for the first week in eight,
with the yield falling 58 basis points over the week to 6.68
percent. That narrowed the yield difference over similar-
maturity German bunds by 45 basis points to 4.55 percentage
points. Even with the decline in yields, Italy is paying the
highest rates in more than a decade to attract buyers for its
debt and offered more than 7 percent on new bonds for the third
time in a week on Nov. 29.  Italy’s budget deficit of 4.6 percent of gross domestic
product last year is less than  France  and half that of the U.K.,
and the measures may help the government achieve its goal of
balancing the budget in 2013. The country’s debt is larger than
 Greece , Spain, Portugal and Ireland combined.  Monti spent the weekend meeting with leaders of the main
political parties, unions, employers and social groups to try to
build support for the plan before it goes to parliament. Monti,
an economist and former European Commissioner, was chosen by
President Giorgio Napolitano to lead Italy after Berlusconi’s
resignation and the professor, as he his known, has no political
base in parliament.  Bitter Medicine  “Medicine is always bitter, but sometimes it’s necessary
to prevent the patient from dying,” Pierferdinando Casini, head
of the Union of Centrists party, said yesterday after meeting
with Monti.  The measures the new government plans to take are severe
and necessary to “make Italy better,” the leader of
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party,  Angelino Alfano , said
yesterday after the talks. “Monti has been called in precisely
to take decisions which are far from easy, and we are aware of
this,” he said.  Union leaders were less supportive. The government’s
proposals are “indigestible,” and “we are ready to counter
the wrong decisions” that will be made, Susanna Camusso, head
of Italy’s biggest union, CGIL, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  