-- 
Overseas Investors Cut Holdings in South Korean Bonds, Stocks in November

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-12-04T03:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/overseas-investors-cut-korean-bond-stock-holdings-in-november.html
Global funds pulled money from  South
Korea ’s local-currency bonds and stocks last month, after
boosting their holdings in October, according to data released
today by the financial regulator.  The amount of fixed-income securities owned by overseas
investors fell by 336.9 billion won ($299 million) to 86.7
trillion won, the biggest drop since January, the  Financial
Supervisory Service  said in an e-mailed statement today.  Funds based in  Thailand  were the biggest sellers, cutting
holdings by 446 billion won, the regulator said. U.S. investors
cut ownership by 373.3 billion won, the first month since July
that they were net sellers. Malaysian investors were the biggest
buyers with holdings increasing by 450 billion won, while
Australian funds boosted ownership by 188 billion won, FSS data
showed. Funds in Malaysia and  China  have been net investors
every month this year, according to the regulator.  Overseas investors sold 3.2 trillion won more of the
nation’s stocks than they bought in November, FSS data showed.
Funds based in the U.K. were the biggest sellers, followed by
those in Switzerland and the U.S., it said. Holdings were cut as
investment banks in  Europe  sold shares to realize profit and
reduce risks, the FSS said.  The won weakened 2.8 percent against the dollar in November,
after gaining 6.1 percent the previous month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The nation’s benchmark three-year bond
yield fell 13 basis points to 3.38 percent and the  Kospi (KOSPI)  Index
of shares lost 3.2 percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  