-- 
Putin’s Party Fails to Get Majority: Exit Poll

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-12-04T17:34:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/putin-s-party-fails-to-get-majority-exit-poll.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s party failed to win a majority in parliamentary
elections today, according to exit polls.  United Russia’s vote dropped more than 18 percentage points
from four years ago to 45.5 percent, according to an exit poll
of 80,000 people by the Public Opinion Foundation. The party got
48.5 percent, according to an exit poll of 250,994 people by the
state-run All-Russian Center for the Study of Public Opinion.
Official results are due tomorrow.  “This is a personal defeat for Putin,” said  Dmitry
Oreshkin , an independent political analyst based in Moscow. “He
understands that his popularity is falling and it’s falling
increasingly fast.”  Putin, 59, who plans to return as president next year to
give him potentially almost a quarter-century in power if he
runs again in 2018, lost popularity as stalling wage growth and
the government’s shortcomings in curbing corruption repel
voters.  The loss of  United Russia ’s two-thirds majority, which
allowed it to singlehandedly change the Constitution, is the
party’s first electoral setback since it was set up 10 years
ago. Putin next year may be forced to make unpopular cuts in
social spending and raise the pension age to balance the budget.
United Russia currently has 315 seats out of the 450-member
State Duma, the lower house of parliament.  Avoid Contagion  The premier, who will run in March presidential elections,
warned last week against “smashing” the parliament’s unity and
suffering the political paralysis afflicting  Europe  and the U.S.
as Russia seeks to avoid contagion from the euro region’s debt
crisis.  Three other parties scored above the 7 percent threshold
for proportional representation in the legislative body. The
Communists are set to garner between 20 percent and 21 percent,
followed with between 13 percent and 14 percent for the Just
Russia party, which campaigns for increased social spending, and
between 11.5 percent and 13 percent for the nationalist  Liberal
Democratic Party , according to the exit polls.  Opposition parties complained today of mass violations
during the election, including ballot stuffing and misuse of
absentee voting.  United Russia was identified as “the party of swindlers
and thieves” by 36 percent of respondents, according to a
recent poll by the  Levada Center .  ‘Venal and Detached’  Putin would get 31 percent in a presidential election,
compared with 8 percent for Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov 
and 7 percent for President  Dmitry Medvedev , according to a Nov.
18-21 Levada poll. A third were undecided.  “Dissatisfaction with the level of wages and a distrust of
power as venal and detached from people are directly reflected
on United Russia’s approval rating,” Grigoriy Kertman, the
chief analyst for the  Public Opinion  Foundation, said before the
election.  Real wages increased an average of 15 percent a year
between 2000 and 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Including declines for much of 2009, growth has averaged 1.5
percent since.  Russia was the 143rd most-corrupt country of 182 surveyed
in Transparency International’s 2011 Corruption Perceptions
Index. Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, with
higher levels of graft than in Pakistan, Cameroon and Niger.  Economic Growth  During Putin’s first two terms as president, he worked to
centralize power and increase state ownership of the country’s
biggest companies. Buffeted by a booming global economy,
Russia’s economic growth averaged 7 percent a year during his
2000-2008 tenure.  Gross domestic product of the world’s biggest energy
exporter will increase 4.1 percent this year after 4 percent
last year, the government estimates.  Putin first came to power in 2000. After serving for the
maximum two terms allowed under the Constitution, he handed the
presidency to his protégé, Medvedev, in 2008. Medvedev, 46, in
September agreed to step aside next year to allow Putin to
return to the Kremlin, swapping jobs with his mentor to become
prime minister.  “Should United  Russia  underperform, Putin is likely to
boost his populist rhetoric by pledging more social spending
programs and a tougher stance on corruption,” Lilit Gevorgyan,
a London-based analyst at IHS Global Insight, said in an e-
mailed note on Dec. 2. “However, he and his party face a key
challenge -- fatigue with the tandem.”  -- Editors: Balazs Penz, Paul Abelsky  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net 
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  