-- 
Putin’s Party Weakens as Communists Advance

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-12-05T16:50:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/putin-s-party-may-lose-majority-in-russian-parliament-early-results-show.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s hold
on parliament weakened as opposition to his 12-year rule grows
amid his campaign to regain the presidency in March.  Putin’s United Russia won 49.5 percent of yesterday’s vote
for the State Duma, down from 64.3 percent in 2007, the Central
Election Commission  said , citing a preliminary tally. The
results give United Russia 238 seats, or 52.9 percent of the
450-member legislative body. The Communists polled second with
19.2 percent, up from 11.6 percent four years ago, boosting the
number of their seats to 92 from 57. Turnout was 60.2 percent.  “This is a shift in the Russian political environment,”
said  Masha Lipman , an analyst at the Moscow Carnegie Center.
“Life will no longer be as easy for the Kremlin,” she said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television. “Before, it enjoyed a
political monopoly on decision-making, but this doesn’t seem to
be the case anymore.”  United Russia ’s loss of a two-thirds majority, which
allowed it to change the Constitution unilaterally, is the first
time its support declined in a nationwide vote since it was set
up a decade ago. Putin, 59, will have to rely on support from
other parties for major legislative initiatives, which may
prevent him from making unpopular cuts in social spending or
raising the  retirement age  to balance the budget.  ‘This Is Normal’  “Given the new composition of the Duma, on individual
issues and on certain questions, we will have to enter into
coalition bloc agreements,” President  Dmitry Medvedev  said at
the party’s campaign headquarters late yesterday. “This is
normal. This is parliamentarianism. This is democracy.”  The new legislature will be “more entertaining and
energetic,” Medvedev said today at a meeting with supporters.
United Russia secured a majority “that will allow us to work
calmly and smoothly, maintaining stability,” Putin said at a
government meeting today.  The ruble dropped 0.1 percent to 30.8720 per dollar at the
close of trading in Moscow, extending its decline so far this
year to 1 percent, heading for a fourth consecutive year of
losses. The results of the vote may be “slightly negative” for
the Russian currency, Viktor Szabo, who helps manage about $7
billion of emerging-market debt including Russia’s ruble
Eurobond at  Aberdeen Asset Management (ADN)  in  London , said by phone
late yesterday.  Russia’s $3.5 billion of Eurobonds due 2020 rose for a
third day, pushing the yield down eight basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 4.262 percent. The yield has fallen 76
basis points overall in 2011.  ‘Personal Defeat’  Putin handed the Kremlin over to Medvedev after his maximum
second-consecutive term ended in 2008. His support has waned as
stalling wage growth and the government’s shortcomings in
curbing corruption repels voters.  “This is a personal defeat for Putin,” saidDmitry Oreshkin, an independent political analyst in Moscow. “He
understands that his popularity is falling and it’s falling
increasingly fast.”  Two other parties scored above the 7 percent threshold for
proportional representation in the legislative body. Just
Russia, which was set up with Kremlin support before feuding
publicly with the government and campaigns for increased social
spending, gained 13.2 percent of the vote, up from 7.7 percent
in 2007. Nationalist  Vladimir Zhirinovsky ’s  Liberal Democratic
Party , or LDPR, garnered 11.7 percent, up from 8.1 percent.  ‘Big Surprise’  Just Russia’s performance was “a big surprise since they
were more or less written off a few months ago,” said Marcus Svedberg, chief economist at Stockholm-based East Capital, which
manages about 5 billion euros ($6.7 billion).  “United Russia should in any case be able to continue to
rule but the election results show that the electorate is
growing increasingly impatient and frustrated with the ruling
elite,” Svedberg wrote by e-mail.  Medvedev, whom Putin plans to appoint prime minister after
March presidential elections, may take over as leader of United
Russia “within several months,” Sergei Naryshkin, head of the
presidential administration, said on state TV yesterday.  Putin, speaking after Medvedev, called the results
“optimal,” saying voters chose to maintain United  Russia ’s
role as the “leading” political party.  ‘Stable Development’  “With this result, we can guarantee the stable development
of our state,” Putin said.  The premier warned last week against “smashing” the
parliament’s unity and suffering the political paralysis
afflicting Europe and the U.S. as Russia seeks to avoid
contagion from the euro region’s debt crisis.  United Russia’s “results are obviously lower than
expected, so the market could potentially interpret this as
slightly negative,”  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist at
 Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said by phone yesterday. “But
not massively so.”  In the Russian capital, Europe’s largest city, United
Russia got 27.5 percent, just ahead of the Communists’ 25.5
percent, according to an exit poll by the Public Opinion
Foundation.  Opposition parties complained of violations during the
election, including ballot stuffing and misuse of absentee
ballots. Before the poll, the opposition also accused
authorities of detaining their candidates and activists and
seizing campaign material.  ‘Fair, Just and Democratic’  The election was “absolutely fair, just and democratic
elections,” Medvedev said today. “Some violations were
registered but according to observers, there weren’t any abuses
that could have influenced the outcome of the vote,” said Duma
Speaker Boris Gryzlov of United Russia.  The vote lacked fairness as United Russia benefited from
uneven access to state resources and favorable media coverage,
international monitors said. Observers from the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in  Europe  noted “serious indications
of ballot-box stuffing” and other violations, the watchdog’s
Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights said today
in an e-mailed statement.  Monitors from the OSCE visited 150 stations, and assessed
the counting at 34 of them as “very bad.” A Russian vote-
monitoring watchdog, Golos, received 1,500 abuse complaints.
Putin’s party would have garnered about 30 percent of the vote
without the procedural irregularities, Alexander Kynev, head of
Golos’s analytical department, said today.  ‘Shame’  Thousands of protesters flanked by hundreds of riot police
converged on a boulevard in central Moscow tonight, chanting
“Shame” and holding posters that read “Russia will be free.”  “There are so many of us, and that means we won,”  Boris Nemtsov , an opposition leader and former deputy prime minister
under the late President  Boris Yeltsin , told the crowd. “Putin
knows he lost,” said Vladimir Ryzhkov, a leader of the pro-
democracy Parnas group.  About a dozen people, including journalists, were detained
by the police when protesters tried to move to Lubyanka square,
near the headquarters of the Federal Security Service.  Putin would get 31 percent in a presidential election,
compared with 8 percent for Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov 
and 7 percent for Medvedev, according to a Nov. 18-21 Levada
poll. A third of respondents in that survey said they were
undecided.  ‘Dissatisfaction’  “Dissatisfaction with the level of wages and a distrust of
power as venal and detached are directly reflected in United
Russia’s approval rating,” Grigoriy Kertman, the Public Opinion
Foundation’s chief analyst, said before the vote.  Real wages increased an average of 15 percent a year
between 2000 and 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Including declines for much of 2009, growth has averaged 1.5
percent since.  Russia placed 143rd of 182 surveyed countries in
Transparency International’s 2011 Corruption Perceptions Index.
Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, with higher
levels of graft than in Pakistan, Cameroon and Niger.  During Putin’s two terms as president, he worked to
centralize power and increase state ownership of the country’s
biggest companies. Buffeted by a booming global economy,
Russia’s economic growth averaged 7 percent a year during his
2000-2008 tenure.  Gross domestic product of the world’s biggest energy
exporter will increase 4.1 percent this year after 4 percent
last year, the government estimates.  “Of course popular discontent is boiling over but Putin
will continue to keep power in his hands,” said  Mikhail Kasyanov , a former prime minister under Putin who is now an
opposition figure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  