-- 
Republicans Seek Cain’s Supporters as Gingrich Holds Iowa Lead

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-12-05T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/republicans-begin-seeking-cain-s-supporters-as-gingrich-holds-iowa-lead.html
Republican presidential contenders
sought the backing of  Herman Cain ’s supporters after the former
pizza executive exited the race and polls showed former House
Speaker Newt Gingrich holding the lead.  Representative Michele Bachmann said her campaign office
already is capitalizing on Cain’s departure.  “Beginning yesterday our office had call after call after
call of people who wanted to switch over and come and support
me,” the Minnesota Republican said on “Fox News Sunday.”  “The dynamic is changing all the time,” Bachmann said on
CNN’s “State of the Union.” She said the race is an “up-and-
down political  Wall Street ” in which “candidates are going up
and candidates are going down.”  When voters “find out that I’m the candidate who stands
the most for their values, that’s when they come home,”
Bachmann said on CNN. Bachmann and Texas Representative  Ron Paul , who is polling second in Iowa, reminded voters of their
roots in the anti-government  Tea Party .  “There are a lot of people who call themselves Tea Party
people that did like the independent mindedness of Herman
Cain,” Paul said on the CNN program. “I’m optimistic we’ll
pick up some votes.”  Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  touted his “pro-
growth, family values, strong national security” message on
ABC’s “This Week” and said that most Iowa Republicans have yet
to settle on a candidate.  Gingrich Lead  Gingrich now holds a lead in the Midwestern state, where
the first Republican presidential nominating votes will be cast
a month from now. The Georgia Republican has the support of 25
percent of likely caucus participants, according to an  Iowa Poll 
from the Des Moines Register newspaper.  Paul was next, with 18 percent, followed by former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney at 16 percent. Sixty percent
of poll participants said they may change their minds, while 11
percent said they’re undecided before the Jan. 3 caucuses.  “This is still anyone’s game,” said J. Ann Selzer,
president of West Des Moines-based  Selzer & Co. , which conducted
the Register’s poll. “What Romney has going for him is that
neither Gingrich or Paul have dealt with much scrutiny.”  Bachmann recorded support from 8 percent in the poll, the
same showing as Cain, the former chief executive of Godfather’s
Pizza Inc. who dropped out of the race Dec. 3 because of what he
said was excessive media attention to allegations of improper
sexual conduct on his part.  Perry, Santorum  Texas Governor Rick Perry has work to do in  Iowa  to regain
his standing in the race, the poll shows. He has support from 6
percent of likely caucus participants. Santorum, who has spent
more time in Iowa than any other candidate, also stood at 6
percent. Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., who isn’t
actively competing in Iowa, was backed by 2 percent.  The survey of 401 likely Republican caucus participants was
conducted Nov. 27-30 and has a margin of error of plus or minus
4.9 percentage points.  Gingrich has the potential to increase his support in Iowa,
the newspaper said in its report. More respondents choose him as
their second choice than any other candidate.  A Bloomberg News poll in Iowa done Nov. 10-12 by the same
polling company showed Gingrich, Paul and Romney in a dead heat
with Cain, all at around 20 percent. In the latest poll, Cain
had fallen to 8 percent even before he announced he would be
ending his campaign.  Gingrich May Benefit  Gingrich is the “likely beneficiary” of Cain’s departure,
 Ed Gillespie , former chairman of the  Republican National
Committee , said on “Fox News Sunday.” Among Cain’s backers in
the Bloomberg poll, Gingrich was the second choice of 28
percent, followed by Perry at 23 percent. Romney and Paul were
each the second choice of 14 percent of Cain supporters.  An NBC News/Marist poll conducted Nov. 27-29 showed
Gingrich leading Romney in Iowa. Gingrich had the support of 26
percent of likely Republican caucus participants compared with
18 percent for Romney, according to the NBC News/Marist poll of
425 people. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 4.8
percentage points.  “A lot of people inside the Beltway and outside the
Beltway woke up today to a very different political environment
and one in which  Newt Gingrich  is very much for real,” said
 Robert Gibbs , the former White House press secretary now serving
as an Obama campaign adviser, on CBS’s “Face the Nation”
program yesterday.  Competitive Race  A hard-fought primary isn’t “anything unique in American
politics” and a prolonged process wouldn’t hurt Republicans’
chances of winning the White House, said Reince Priebus,
chairman of the Republican National Committee.  “I mean  Hillary Clinton  and  Barack Obama  nearly gouged
each other’s eyes out through the end of June before a national
convention and, guess what: Barack Obama won pretty easily,”
Priebus said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  Gingrich, 68, opened his first campaign office in Iowa on
Nov. 30, the last major candidate to do so.  Romney, 64, has also increased his efforts in Iowa in
recent weeks, after taking a below-the-radar approach to the
state for much of the year, as he sought to manage expectations.  One of Romney’s highest-profile surrogates, New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie , is set to visit Iowa on Dec. 7, about a
week after the campaign started  television advertising  there.  Romney got the  endorsement  of the Sioux City Journal, a
newspaper that circulates in northwest Iowa, a heavily
Republican area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  