-- 
Russia’s November Inflation Rate Probably Dropped to Lowest in 14 Months

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-12-05T11:05:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/russia-s-november-inflation-rate-probably-dropped-to-lowest-in-14-months.html
Russia ’s inflation rate probably fell
last month to the lowest since September 2010 because of a
shortage of cash in the economy and weaker food-price growth.  Consumer prices rose 7 percent from a year earlier after a
7.2 percent increase in October, according to the median of 15
economist  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey. Prices probably rose
0.6 percent during the month, a  second survey  showed. The
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow will publish the data after
4:30 p.m. today, the service said on its website.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , seeking a return as
president next year, has supported the central bank’s goal of
capping inflation at a  two-decade low  of 7 percent. Bank Rossii
stopped purchasing foreign currency, while budget spending has
lagged targets, draining ruble liquidity, said  Dmitry Kharlampiev, research director for macroeconomics at OAO
Petrocommerce Bank in  St. Petersburg .  “What’s happening with inflation now is a result of the
interruption in ruble emission,” he said in a Dec. 2 telephone
interview. M2, a measure of  money  in the economy, contracted in
October from a month earlier, which is uncharacteristic for this
time of year, Kharlamiev added.  The MosPrime rate, an average of banks’ quoted rates to
lend each other rubles for three months, has surged 259 basis
points, or 2.59 percentage points, since the start of August to
6.89 percent on Dec. 2. That was 3 basis points off a nearly
two-year high of 6.92 percent on Nov. 30.  Putin Election Setback  The ruble has gained 4.2 percent against the dollar this
quarter, the third-best performance among 31 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the Australian dollar and the
Brazilian real.  Putin’s party failed to win a majority in parliamentary
elections yesterday, according to preliminary results, dealing
the Russian leader his first electoral setback since he came to
power a decade ago.  United Russia ’s won 49.5 percent of the vote, compared with
64.3 percent in 2007, the Central Election Commission said on
state television, citing results from 96 percent of votes
counted.  Fifty-eight percent of Russians said inflation was “very
high” last month, unchanged from May when prices rose 9.6
percent, according to a poll published last month by the All-
Russia Center for the Study of  Public Opinion .  Food Inflation  Consumer prices rose faster than economists forecast both
from a year earlier and a month earlier in October. Price growth
in the year through November may be 5.8 percent, compared with
5.2 percent in October and 7.6 percent in the same period of
last year, according to the median of 11 estimates in a
Bloomberg poll.  “Food prices aren’t contributing to the general price
level as much as they did last year,” Ariel Chernyy, an analyst
at Allianz Rosno Asset Management in Moscow, said Dec. 2 by e-
mail. While food inflation “started to accelerate in October,
weather conditions have been better this year.”  Core inflation , which excludes some volatile data, probably
advanced 0.5 percent in November compared with October, a
separate survey showed.  Consumer prices surged in the second-half of last year
after a drought damaged Russia’s harvest, helping push inflation
to 8.8 percent on the year.  “The weekly inflation data, starting from the second half
of last month, show that there has been something of a slowdown
in price growth,”  Kirill Tremasov, an economist at OAO Nomos
Bank in Moscow, said Dec. 2 in a telephone interview. “I think
there’s a chance to keep growth to 0.5 percent” from a month
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  