-- 
SAP Sheds M&A Shyness as Oracle Rivalry Moves to the Cloud

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-12-06T00:41:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/sap-sheds-m-a-shyness-with-successfactors-as-oracle-rivalry-moves-to-cloud.html
SAP AG ’s then-chief  Leo Apotheker 
told investors in 2009 that the German company’s homegrown
technology was “significantly better” than that of  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL) , which had “not done a good job with acquisitions.”  Apotheker was forced to leave three months later and his
successors, co-CEOs  Bill McDermott  and Jim Hagemann Snabe, have
already spent more than $9 billion on two major takeovers. The
most recent came on Dec. 3, when SAP agreed to buy San Mateo,
California-based SuccessFactors Inc. for $3.4 billion in cash to
catch up with Oracle in the cloud-computing market.  McDermott and Snabe have changed tack at the largest maker
of business-management software to do a better job meeting
demand for new technologies, such as cloud computing, real-time
analytics and mobile applications. The SuccessFactors deal shows
SAP’s previous go-it-alone approach to the cloud was lacking,
said Thomas Otter, a vice president at Gartner Inc.  “My first reaction was: What took you so long?” Otter
said in a phone interview from Heidelberg,  Germany , less than 50
miles away from SAP’s headquarters in Walldorf. “This means a
fundamental shift in terms of their cloud strategy, which has
been rather slow to get off the ground. This is a tacit
admission that their cloud strategy was a failure.”  Short Investors  SuccessFactors rose 51 percent to $39.75 at the close in
U.S. trading today. SAP shares, meanwhile, dropped 2.5 percent
to 43.61 euros in Frankfurt, valuing the company at 53.5 billion
euros. The stock has  gained  14 percent this year.  The jump in SuccessFactors’ shares has made life difficult
for people shorting the stock, or betting that it will go down,
CEO Lars Dalgaard said today.  “The first thing I’m enjoying is how many shorts we
fried,” Dalgaard said in an interview on “Bloomberg West.”  Investors increased short sales on SuccessFactors to 17.7
percent of shares outstanding as of Dec. 1, according to data
compiled for Bloomberg by New York-based researcher  Data
Explorers . That was near the high of 18.3 percent on Nov. 24 --
a record going back at least to November 2007.  Still, the deal raises concerns for SAP, said Michael Briest, an analyst at UBS AG.  “In addition to the high price paid, which we think
investors will see negatively, the other question will be
whether the decision to acquire reflects a sign of SAP’s
strength or its weakness,” he said. Briest cut his rating on
SAP shares to “neutral” from “buy.”  Cloud Movement  SAP, Oracle and companies such as Apple Inc.,
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) ,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  are promoting
cloud computing as a secure way to outsource data centers and
reduce the need for pricey servers and other hardware.  SuccessFactors, which makes software used to manage
employee performance, has more than 3,500 customers and 15
million subscribers in 168 countries. The company is predicted
to have $502 million in revenue in 2013, up from $332 million
this year, according to  analyst estimates (SFSF)  compiled by Bloomberg.  The purchase could add another 1 billion euros ($1.34
billion) to SAP’s 2015 sales target of 20 billion euros, co-CEO
McDermott said in a telephone interview.  SAP is paying eight times SuccessFactors’ forecast revenue
for next year, compared with a median of three times revenue
companies paid for 32 North American software targets over the
past five years, Bloomberg data show. It is paying a premium of
54 percent, based on a 20-day average of the target’s share
price, compared with a 22 percent premium Oracle paid for cloud
competitor RightNow Technologies Inc. on Oct. 24.  ‘Crown Jewel’  “You get what you pay for and if you want the crown jewel
in this industry, you have got to pay for it,” McDermott said.
“We are very comfortable with the relationship between the
price and 2012 revenues. It’s very much in the medium range. We
don’t consolidate old tired companies that don’t grow anymore.”  SAP may take a break from large deals following the close
of SuccessFactors, while it concentrates on expanding in cloud
computing, mobile  business software , data analysis and in-memory
computing, McDermott added.  “For now, I think we have the assets we need to win,” he
said.  McDermott and Dalgaard first met on Sept. 27 at
SuccessFactors’ suburban office in  San Mateo , the executives
said. McDermott said he “personally” evaluated a number of
cloud computing competitors -- including having dinners with
their executives -- before deciding to buy SuccessFactors.
Competing with Oracle wasn’t a driving factor in the deal, he
said. One asset SAP gains is Dalgaard himself.  Software as a Service  Dalgaard, 44, will have the job of overseeing SAP’s broad
software-as-a-service efforts, including its Business ByDesign
Web programs for midsized companies. Peter Lorenz, an SAP
executive vice president in charge of the group of products,
will report to him, McDermott said.  “Lars will oversee the entire SAP cloud,” McDermott said.
“This is our catalyst.”  Owning SuccessFactors, which helps companies decide which
employees to retain and how much to pay them, can help SAP sell
“human capital management” software to the highest echelons of
its customers’ management, McDermott said. SuccessFactors may
also add programs for handling logistics and supply-chain
operations, Dalgaard said.  Termination Charge  There will be a termination fee of $112.5 million in
certain circumstances if the deal falls through, SuccessFactors
said today.  “The talent management market will probably be worth about
$3.5 billion this year,” Otter said. “SAP has essentially
spent what the whole market will be worth this year in one
swoop. It is a lot to pay for a niche in their portfolio, but
human resources technology is a hot space.”  The global market for cloud services may surge to $148.8
billion in 2014 from $68.3 billion in 2010, Gartner estimates.  Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in
Portland, Oregon, said SAP may need to make more cloud
acquisitions.  “They’ve now got a very good basis here, but I would
expect them to make smaller acquisitions in cloud to complement
this,” he said in an interview. “Maybe they’d look at someone
in expense management, like  Concur Technologies Inc. (CNQR) , or in
procurement, like  Ariba Inc. (ARBA) ”  Ariba gained 14 percent in U.S. trading today, while Concur
climbed 11 percent.  Oracle’s Acquisitions  While Oracle has spent more than $42 billion on takeovers
since the beginning of 2005, SAP had only made only two large
 acquisitions  in its 39-year history before SuccessFactors:
Sybase, a maker of mobile-device applications, for $5.8 billion
in May of last year, and business-intelligence company Business
Objects for 4.8 billion euros in 2007.  “They need to make acquisitions,”  Ray Wang , head of San
Francisco-based Constellation Research, a research and advisory
firm focused on technology, said in an interview. “Innovation
now happens at startups and SuccessFactors is a lot like a
startup.”  SAP has added three categories since May 2010: mobile-
computing software; Hana real-time analytics technology; and
software that can be accessed over the Internet. Hana and mobile
made up 10 percent of third-quarter sales, Snabe said on Nov.
17, adding that SAP aims to add product categories to accelerate
sales growth.  ‘M&A Factory’  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  are
among more than 176,000 companies that use SAP’s applications to
order goods, plan inventory levels and manage sales. The company
is trying to sell them mobile software gained through the Sybase
acquisition and the Hana software, which lets companies analyze
data in a computer’s memory instead of through slower disk
drives.  SAP, the largest maker of business-management software, has
more than 20 people dedicated to integrating acquired companies
in the information-technology department, Chief Information
Officer Oliver Bussmann said.  “We have an M&A factory at SAP,” he said in an interview
in  San Francisco  on Nov. 30.  Gartner’s Otter says SAP’s more aggressive M&A strategy may
spark a reaction from its U.S. archrival.  “Oracle took the first move with the acquisition of
RightNow and SAP needed to respond,” he said. “Given Oracle’s
propensity to acquire, this is going to heat things up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  