-- 
Service Industries in U.S. Probably Expanded at Fastest Pace in Six Months

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-12-04T10:39:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/services-probably-accelerated-in-november-u-s-economy-preview.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
probably expanded in November at the fastest pace in six months,
a sign the economy is accelerating in the final months of 2011,
economists said before a report tomorrow.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
 index  rose to 53.8 last month after 52.9 in October, according
to the median forecast of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News ahead of the Tempe, Arizona based-group’s data. Others
reports may show  consumer confidence  rose this month and factory
orders fell in October.  The services data may indicate broader improvement in the
economy at year-end after reports last week showed a pickup in
manufacturing, less consumer pessimism and declining
 unemployment . At the same time, risks remain that  Europe ’s debt
crisis and slower global growth will prompt U.S. companies to
cut back.  “We seem to be on more solid footing, but at the same time
the external risks have risen as well,” Ellen Zentner, a senior
economist at Nomura International Securities Inc. in  New York .  Estimates for the services index in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 51.5 to 55. Fifty is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  A report from the Labor Department last week showed the
 unemployment rate  fell to 8.6 percent last month, the lowest
since March 2009, from 9 percent. Payrolls climbed by 120,000
after a revised 100,000 increase in October.  Service Jobs  Employment at service-providers increased 126,000,
including a 50,000 gain at retailers on hiring for  holiday
shopping season . The number of temporary workers rose by 22,300.  Transportation companies are joining retailers such as
Kohl’s Corp. and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  in boosting holiday staff.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  may hire 55,000 holiday workers
this year, a 10 percent increase from 2010, to help with
shipping gains bolstered by online shopping, the company said
Nov. 7. More than 120 million packages may be delivered in the
week before Christmas, up 6 percent from last year, the world’s
largest package-delivery company said in a statement.  U.S. consumers poured into the malls and took to the Web
during Thanksgiving weekend, spending a record $52.4 billion at
a pace that may be hard to sustain as the holiday shopping
season gets under way, the  National Retail Federation  said,
citing a survey from BIGresearch.  Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. luxury handbag maker, expects
an “excellent holiday season,” partly due to shoppers’
“strong interest” in accessories for self-purchase, Chief
Executive Officer Lew Frankfort said on a conference call last
week.  Holiday Sales  Limited Brands Inc. and Macy’s posted November same-store
sales that topped analysts’ estimates as Thanksgiving weekend
deals drew record crowds, while chains such as Kohl’s and Target
Corp. failed to take advantage of pent-up demand.  Retailers have outperformed the broader market this year.
The Standard and Poor’s  Supercomposite Retailing Index (S15RETL)  rose 5
percent through last week while the  S&P 500 Index  fell 1.1
percent.  Consumer confidence probably picked up this month, the
preliminary Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan survey for
December may show on Dec. 9. Confidence rose to 65.8 from 64.1
at the end of November, according to economists’ forecasts.  A report the same day from the Commerce Department may show
the trade deficit was little changed in October. The gap may
come in at $44 billion, up from $43.1 billion in September,
according to the median forecast.  Fewer Claims  Jobless claims  probably fell to 395,000 last week from
402,000 the prior week, economists forecast the Labor Department
will report Dec. 8.  The ISM services survey covers industries ranging from
utilities and retailing to health care and finance.  A report by the same group on Dec. 1 showed  manufacturing 
last month expanded at the fastest pace in five month, boosted
by gains in orders and production.  The Commerce Department will report today at 10 a.m. that
 factory orders  in October fell 0.3 percent as demand for
aircraft waned, according to the median projection in the
Bloomberg survey. Bookings climbed 0.3 percent the prior month,  The  Federal Reserve  last week said the  U.S. economy 
expanded at a “slow to moderate” pace in 11 of its 12
districts in October and the first half of November, led by
gains in manufacturing and  consumer spending . “Hiring was
generally subdued” and residential real estate “generally
remained sluggish,” the Fed said. “Consumer spending increased
modestly, on balance.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  