-- 
Slovenians Vote for Government; Jansa Seen Making Comeback

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-12-04T16:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/slovenians-begin-voting-for-new-government-jansa-leads-polls.html
Slovenians began voting for a new
government that will have to tackle a widening budget deficit,
hold back rising debts and keep the first former communist
nation to use the euro from slipping back into  recession .  The Slovenian Democratic Party of opposition leader  Janez
Jansa , an ex-premier who led the former Yugoslav republic into
the euro region, had 31.4 percent support in a Dec. 2 survey by
polling agency Ninamedia, according to Dnevnik newspaper.
Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic’s party had 23.3 percent and the
party of outgoing Prime Minister Borut Pahor had 12 percent.  The election was called after Pahor was ousted in a no-
confidence vote in September triggered by coalition disputes
over pension changes. Borrowing costs surged after voters
rejected the extension of the  retirement age , while austerity
measures in  Europe  weaken demand for its exports and public debt
will widen to more than 50 percent next year.  “The main task of the new government will be to stop the
trend of increased borrowing,” Jansa, 53, said in a Dec. 2
interview with the Ljubljana-based broadcaster Info TV. “The
difficulties in the euro region are very serious, but I am
optimistic about the euro’s survival.”  Voting Extension?  Polling stations, which opened at 7 a.m., will close at 7
p.m., when the first exit-poll figures will be published.
Official results will be released later in the evening. Parties
are vying for 88 seats in the 90-member assembly as two seats
are reserves for representatives of the Italian and Hungarian
minority. The winner of the vote is likely to seek coalition
partners to gain more than a 45-seat majority.  Voting may be extended, the electoral commission in
Ljubljana said after ballots were reported stolen in one polling
precinct. Voter turnout at 5 p.m. local time was at 48.3
percent, the   commission  said on its website.  “I gave my vote to Jansa because he is saying that only
hard work can get us out of trouble, and I agree,” said Ciril
Metelko, an 82 old pensioner after he cast his vote in a polling
stations in eastern Ljubljana.  Jansa, who was reluctant to outline specific economic and
fiscal strategies during the campaign leading up to the snap
poll, should look to European leaders like German Chancellor
Angela Merkel and French President Nicholas Sarkozy for
direction on restoring faith in the country’s economy, said Miro
Kline, a political analyst and a marketing communications
professor at the  Faculty  for Social Sciences in Ljubljana.  “Slovenia’s bond yields are more in the hands of  Angela
Merkel  and other EU leaders,” said Kline in an e-mailed
response to questions. “So Jansa’s hands are tied on this.”  Rising Yields  Yields on Slovenia’s 10 year bonds surged to 7.77 percent
on Nov. 11 after two days earlier Italian benchmark notes gained
past the 7 percent mark. Pressure on the yield of euro-region
nations eased after central banks moved to improve dollar
liquidity. Slovenian notes maturing in 2021 rallied with the
yield at 6.71 percent in the capital Ljubljana on Dec. 2,
according to Bloomberg data.  “Europe has problems with its common currency because some
members are abusing the trust instead of playing by the rules,”
Jansa said. “There are reserves in our public sector where we
could save 20 percent and we would have to in parallel create
jobs in the private sector to increase the tax intake.”  UniCredit SpA analyst  Gyula Toth  said Slovenia needs 3
billion euros ($4 billion) for 2012 to repay old debt and
finance the budget. It will test investors’ appetite for its
debt as is seeks to raise 1 billion euros in a Treasury bill
auction on Dec. 6.  Credit Ratings  The country, which had its credit rating cut by one level
to AA- by Standard’s and Poor and other ratings services, may
opt to sell bonds in the U.S., Japanese or Swiss debt markets if
the Treasury bill auction fails.  The export-driven economy shrank an annual 0.5 percent in
the third quarter from a year before following growth of 0.8
percent in the previous three-month period.  The risk of recession “has risen greatly,” Michal Dybula,
an economist at BNP Paribas in Warsaw wrote in a Nov. 29 note to
clients.  Slovenian banks including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and
 Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. (KBMR)  are reeling from the impact of
the 2009 recession. As bankruptcies increase, lenders’ bad loans
are mounting, with both the biggest banks expecting losses by
the end of the year.  “We may see a continuation of economic policies from the
2004-2008 period from Jansa, which means there is an accelerated
privatization at the door,” said analyst Kline.  Jansa wants to sell the majority state stake in Nova
Ljubljanska to 25 percent, similar to a plan by Pahor. Jankovic
says NLB should be merged with Banka Celje d.d. and have a new
management team that would be able to pull the lender from its
woes, he said in an e-mail reply to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  