-- 
Whitehaven in Talks With Aston Resources

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-12-05T04:05:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/whitehaven-in-talks-with-aston-resources.html
Billionaire Nathan Tinkler’s  Aston
Resources Ltd. (AZT)  is in talks to combine with  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) ,
valued at A$2.8 billion ($2.9 billion), in what would be the
biggest coal deal in Australia since July.  Aston has “had discussions with  Whitehaven Coal  regarding
a confidential, incomplete, non-binding merger of equals
proposal,” Brisbane-based Aston said today in a statement.
Shares of both companies rose, lifting the value of Aston’s
stock by as much as 7 percent and Whitehaven’s by 2.7 percent.  Joining the two companies would combine Aston’s Maules
Creek project in the Gunnedah Basin with nearby Whitehaven mines
that produced 4.2 million metric tons of coal last year as
demand from  China  and India grows. This year there have been 78
coal deals in  Australia , the world’s biggest coal exporter,
worth $9.35 billion, compared with last year’s record $9.44
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “These guys are located right next to each other, sharing
a lot of infrastructure, so there’s a lot of sense in something
ultimately happening between the two,” Chris Drew, resources
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney, said by phone.  Whitehaven, which put itself up for sale in October last
year, ended the process in May, saying the offers it received
didn’t reflect the value of its assets. Aston, chaired by its
largest shareholder Tinkler, had a market value of A$1.9 billion
as of Dec. 2.  Shares Gain  Aston climbed 4.5 percent to A$9.52 at 2:53 p.m. in Sydney,
taking its gain for the year to 18 percent. Whitehaven rose 2
percent to A$5.75.  The biggest coal deal in Australia this year was Peabody
Energy Corp.’s $4 billion takeover of Macarthur Coal Ltd. in
July. New Hope Corp., which has a market value of A$5 billion,
said Nov. 30 it holding talks with “several” potential bidders
after receiving takeover proposals.  India ’s  Aditya Birla Group 
placed an indicative offer, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the matter.  Globally, there have been $35.3 billion worth of coal
takeover this year compared with the record $36.7 billion last
year. The average premium for those deals was 22 percent, the
data show.  Whitehaven had cash and near-cash items of A$141 million as
of Dec. 31, while Aston had cash of A$342 million.  Adjacent Operation  Aston’s Maules Creek project, which it bought for A$480
million in February 2010 from Rio Tinto Group, is located within
20 kilometers (12 miles) of Whitehaven’s Narrabri North mine in
New South Wales state. Maules Creek is scheduled to start output
in the second quarter of 2013, rising to more than 10 million
metric tons of semi-soft coking coal used in steelmaking from
2014 and will be using the same rail and port as Whitehaven.  Whitehaven plans to boost production to almost 14 million
tons of coal for fiscal 2014 ending June 30, it said in a Oct.
28 presentation. Whitehaven is forecast to earn net income of
A$63 million in the six months to Dec. 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Whitehaven continues to investigate value enhancing
opportunities on behalf of its shareholders,” Tony Haggarty,
managing director, said in a separate statement.  Demand Growth  Global seaborne demand for coking coal will grow by 5
percent annually to 2025, as Chinese steel output increases to
about 1.1 billion tons, BHP Billiton Ltd., the biggest exporter,
said Sept. 30. Every ton of crude steel needs about 600
kilograms of metallurgical coal, BHP said at the time.  Tinkler, a former electrician turned resources
entrepreneur, has business interests including coal mining, rail
and port infrastructure and horse racing. On Nov. 29 he proposed
building a A$2.5 billion coal export terminal in Newcastle, the
world’s biggest port for thermal coal, to ferry coal from Aston
and other projects to global markets. The plan competes with one
submitted by the current operator Port Waratah Coal Services
Ltd.  The terminal will add 100 million tons of annual capacity
for coal exports if approved by the state government, Tinkler’s
Hunter Ports said. That would double the amount being shipped
annually from the harbor in New South Wales. Port Waratah is
proposing a A$5 billion expansion to add 120 million tons of
capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  