-- 
Wolves Beat Sunderland 2-1 in Premier League; Stoke Wins 1-0 at Everton

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-12-05T00:00:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/wolves-beat-sunderland-2-1-in-premier-league-stoke-wins-1-0-at-everton.html
Wolverhampton Wanderers  rallied to
beat Sunderland 2-1 yesterday and move four points clear of the
relegation positions in English soccer’s Premier League.  Sunderland, which on Dec. 3 named Martin O’Neill as its new
manager, will start his tenure one spot above the three-team
drop zone after its seventh league defeat of the season. Eric Black was in temporary charge of the visitor yesterday.  Steven Fletcher  scored twice for Wolves in the last 20
minutes after Kieran Richardson had given Sunderland the lead
early in the second half. A Robert Huth goal secured a 1-0 win
for Stoke City at Everton’s Goodison Park.  “It’s a massive result,” Fletcher told Sky Sports. “We
knew it was a six pointer and going 1-0 down we took it on the
chin but we showed we can come back.”  Wolves moves to 15th spot on 14 points, behind Swansea City
on goal difference. Fulham has 12 points, Sunderland 11,
Blackburn 10, with Bolton and Wigan on nine. Stoke is up to
eighth after its win, two spots ahead of Everton.  Sunderland, which fired  Steve Bruce  on Nov. 30, is now
winless in five matches.  Black Cats midfielders Stephane Sessegnon and Sebastian Larsson had shots saved in the first half at Molineux, with
Sunderland keeper Keiren Westwood making a block from Stephen Hunt.  Seven minutes into the second half, Sunderland made a quick
break as Wolves lost possession following a corner. Nicklas Bendtner flicked the ball to Sessegnon, who slipped in
Richardson to power a shot past Wayne Hennessey.  Penalty Miss  Richardson blocked a shot on the line five minutes later to
maintain his team’s lead, which should have been extended when
Sunderland was awarded a penalty kick on 72 minutes. Larsson’s
low effort was easily stopped by Hennessey and seconds later
Fletcher headed into the net. Fletcher fired in a second goal on
81 minutes and Wolves held on to win.  “It’s a great victory and a great three points,” Wolves
manager  Mick McCarthy  told Sky Sports. “I’m delighted with
it.”  At Goodison Park, Huth got the only goal in the 15th
minute, the center-back’s first of the season. It was only his
team’s fourth strike in seven away matches.  Huth turned the ball into the net from close range after
Dean Whitehead fired a low shot toward the goal. It ended a run
of two straight wins for Everton.  Since Nov. 26, Stoke has won two league games and secured a
draw to advance in the Europa League.  “It says a lot about the character and spirit that we have
come through another tough three-game week with three excellent
results,” Stoke manager  Tony Pulis  told reporters.  Manchester City  tops the Premier League standings by five
points from  Manchester United  after a 5-1 victory against
Norwich City two days ago. United beat Aston Villa 1-0.  Third-place Tottenham defeated Bolton 3-0, Arsenal won 4-0
at Wigan, Chelsea beat Newcastle 3-0, Blackburn defeated Swansea
4-2, while Queens Park Rangers and West Bromwich Albion tied 1-
1.  Fulham hosts Liverpool today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 