-- 
Myanmar Seeks ‘Win-Win-Win’ in Balancing U.S.-China Competition

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-12-04T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-04/myanmar-seeks-win-win-win-in-balancing-u-s-china-competition.html
Myanmar aims to leverage friendly
relations with both the U.S. and  China  to expand one of Asia’s
smallest economies and boost incomes in the region, according to
an adviser to President Thein Sein.  China welcomes greater U.S. engagement with Myanmar because
a wealthier neighbor would lift the economic growth of Yunnan
province and other inland areas, Nay Zin Latt, one of nine
advisers who meet Thein Sein “frequently,” said in a Dec. 3
interview a day after Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
completed the highest-level U.S. visit to Myanmar in 56 years.  “I’m going for a win-win-win situation,” Nay Zinn Latt
said in his Yangon office. “China wants us to be more
developed. Our country is the gateway to the sea from Yunnan. If
we are rich, Yunnan will be rich too. If we are poor, China can
only get raw materials.” China’s landlocked southwest province
of Yunnan adjoins Myanmar.  During her visit, Clinton offered a path to ease sanctions
that have been in place for more than 20 years and have left
Myanmar dependent on neighbors China,  India  and  Thailand , which
have poured more than $25 billion into ports,  power plants , and
oil and gas pipelines. Myanmar’s moves to roll back more than
five decades of military rule have provided the U.S. an opening
to rebuild political and economic ties as President  Barack Obama 
shifts his foreign policy focus to Asia.  “It’s not that Myanmar veered toward China in recent
decades,” said Thant Myint-U, a former United Nations official
who has written two books on Myanmar. “It’s that Western
governments, as part of a democratic regime-change strategy,
have imposed sanctions that have left the country entirely open
to economic influence from just one direction.”  Dam Opposition  Thein Sein surprised China, the U.S. and his own citizens
in September when he suspended a $3.6 billion dam being built
with China Power Investment Corp. The “very popular” decision
was based on domestic opposition and doesn’t mean other Chinese
investments are at risk, Nay Zinn Latt said.  “The dam is big, but it’s one project among hundreds with
China and cannot damage relations,” he said. “The key thing is
assessment. With every project, we should disclose the
advantages and disadvantages. If the advantages are more and it
benefits our country, we should do it.”  China National Petroleum Corp.  is building oil and gas
pipelines across Myanmar, a move that would allow it to access
Middle Eastern crude without having to go through the Malacca
Straits. China,  Hong Kong  and Thailand account for more than 70
percent of total investment into Myanmar, compared with less
than one percent for the U.S., according to government
 statistics .  Sanctions  U.S. sanctions ban imports, restrict money transfers, curb
aid funding and target jewelry with gemstones originating in
Myanmar.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , based in  San Ramon ,  California , is one
of the few U.S. companies operating in Myanmar through its 2005
purchase of Unocal Corp., which invested in a  gas field  and
pipeline prior to a 1997 ban on new investment.  Thein Sein has freed hundreds of political prisoners, eased
censorship and sought a dialogue with democracy icon  Aung San Suu Kyi  since taking office in February. Clinton said the
release of another 1,000 dissidents still locked up would serve
as an “important test” of his commitment to reforms.  Clinton’s offer on Dec. 3 to assist groups providing
microcredit, health care and English-language training in
Myanmar “is an indication that sanctions will be lifted,” Nay
Zinn Latt said. “Imposing sanctions is not so difficult but
lifting them takes time.”  China Positive  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said on Dec. 1
his country was developing relations with Myanmar “across the
board.” He also said the leadership in Beijing hopes Myanmar
and western countries “enhance and improve relations,” a
statement Suu Kyi said made her “very pleased.”  China’s comment “shows that we have the support of the
whole world,” Suu Kyi said during a joint appearance with
Clinton on Dec. 2 at her lakeside Yangon home, where she spent
most of the past two decades under house arrest. “I’m
particularly pleased because we hope to maintain good, friendly
relations with China, our very close neighbor.”  Yunnan province has an economy twice the size of Myanmar,
whose 62 million people are among  Asia ’s poorest. China and
India, which account for more than a third of the world
population, share more than 3,600 kilometers (2,237 miles) of
border with Myanmar.  “We cannot move away from China or India, and we shouldn’t
move away,” Nay Zin Latt said. “Our duty is to find the best
way of dealing with everyone to benefit the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Yangon at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  