-- 
‘Inhuman’ Conditions for Workers Overshadow Qatar World Cup, Unions Say

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-05-30T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/-inhuman-conditions-overshadow-qatar-world-cup-unions-say.html
The International Trade Union
Confederation and Building Workers International urged FIFA and
the Qatari government to prove that migrant workers won’t be
subject to “inhuman” conditions as the Persian Gulf nation
begins to build stadiums in anticipation of the 2022  World Cup .  In a report released before the June 1-17 International
Labor Conference in Geneva, the groups highlight the working and
living conditions of migrant labor being used to build nine
stadiums in 10 years as Qatar seeks to be the first Arab country
to host the World Cup. The statement calls upon FIFA President
 Sepp Blatter  and Qatar’s FIFA delegate Mohamed bin Hammam to
rectify “unsafe and unregulated working conditions.”  “A huge migrant labor force, with very little rights, no
access to any unions, very unsafe practices and inhuman living
conditions will be literally putting their lives on the line to
deliver the 2022 World Cup,” Sharan Burrow, general secretary
of the ITUC, said in a statement today.  Qatar beat the U.S.,  Australia ,  South Korea  and  Japan  to
win the  2022 World Cup  at a ceremony hosted in Zurich in
December. The country will invest $88 billion in infrastructure
for the games, Enrico Grino, Qatar National Bank’s assistant
general manager and head of project finance, said on May 16.  As part of its bid, Qatar pledged to build nine stadiums
and refurbish three others. Each will use solar-powered cooling
technology in a country where summer temperatures rise as high
as 50 degrees Celsius (122 degrees Fahrenheit).  “Their ability to deliver the World Cup is totally
dependent on severe exploitation of migrant labor, which we
believe to be barely above forced labor conditions,” Ambet
Yuson, general secretary of Building Workers International, said
in the statement.  Most migrant workers in Qatar come from  India , Pakistan and
Nepal, according to the report. The two unions said they will
write to FIFA President Sepp Blatter and Qatar’s FIFA
delegate, Mohamed bin Hammam, asking the organization
to explain how it will protect workers building the stadiums.  The ITUC is the world’s largest trade union, representing
175 million workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 