-- 
Gates Deflects Karzai Criticism Over Afghan Civilian Casualties in Strikes

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-01T07:13:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/afghani-cabinet-member-calls-on-obama-not-to-withdraw-troops-too-quickly.html
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said
criticism by Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  of U.S. air strikes
that kill and injure civilians shows his people’s “pain” and
the need for joint investigations to prevent such casualties.  “I think President Karzai is reflecting the pain and
suffering that the Afghan people have had to endure,” Gates
told reporters in Honolulu yesterday. “I think he also
recognizes -- and the Afghan people do -- that we are their
ally, we are their friend and we are trying to help them develop
the capability to protect themselves.”  Karzai had condemned a May 28 air strike that the U.S.-led
coalition said killed nine civilians in the southern province of
Helmand. An apology the alliance published was its third for
such an incident in the past month. Karzai said he was issuing
his “last warning” to NATO and would further restrict its
ability to conduct attacks.  U.S. lawmakers are pressing President  Barack Obama  to speed
the withdrawal of the 97,000 American troops in  Afghanistan  as
the killing of Osama bin Laden raises the prospect that al-Qaeda
might be disabled as a terrorist group. Obama in December 2009
authorized a temporary increase in troops on condition a
drawdown would begin in July.  The day after the raid that killed bin Laden, Michigan
Democrat  Carl Levin , chairman of the Senate Armed Services
Committee, said the al-Qaeda leader’s death will reinforce plans
for a “robust” reduction of U.S. troops in Afghanistan
starting in July.  Security Gains  Afghan criticism of civilian casualties shouldn’t be
interpreted as a call for the foreign forces to leave, said
Education Minister Farooq Wardak during a visit to  Washington 
this week.  “The root causes of the terrorist activities in
Afghanistan should be addressed,” Wardak said in an interview.
“This is a difference which has been misunderstood.”  Army General David Petraeus and other U.S. military and
civilian leaders are considering how many troops they can
withdraw this year without jeopardizing security gains. At least
1,234 U.S. soldiers have been killed in action in Afghanistan.  Wardak said he would use the meetings with administration
officials and lawmakers in Washington to urge that the U.S. not
pursue a hasty withdrawal from the war following the death of
bin Laden.  Peace Talks  The mission to secure Afghanistan and make sure it doesn’t
once again become a haven for al-Qaeda, as it was before the
Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks on the U.S., needs to be
completed, he said.  “That goal has not been achieved,” said Wardak, 51. “The
killing of  Osama bin Laden  is only one factor. There must not be
any hurry, because hurry may be counter-productive.”  Wardak also serves as chairman of the international
committee of Afghanistan’s High Peace Council, established by a
meeting of tribal leaders and other representatives a year ago
to pursue a political settlement to end the war.  The Obama administration is taking more practical steps
this year toward reconciliation, including discussing the need
for a political settlement with the Taliban more openly, he
said. The U.S. also has provided $50 million of financial
support to the council and for creating jobs to lure lower-level
fighters away from the insurgency, Wardak said.  The 68-member peace council’s chairman, former Afghan
President Burhanuddin Rabbani, is leading indirect contacts with
rebel forces with the goal of achieving direct talks toward a
resolution, Wardak said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Honolulu via 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  