-- 
Lagarde Promises Bigger IMF Role for Emerging Markets During Brazil Visit

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-05-31T00:09:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/lagarde-promises-bigger-imf-role-for-emerging-markets-during-brazil-visit.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  promised to give developing nations a greater voice at
the  International Monetary Fund  if she succeeds in her bid to
become the lender’s next managing director.  “It’s important to allow countries to have a lot of
representation,” Lagarde said yesterday during a visit to
Brazil before heading for  China . “I chose Brazil as my first
destination in the campaign because it’s a big emerging country
that carries a lot of weight in the international scene.”  Brazil and other developing countries are seeking to break
a half-century tradition whereby the top IMF job is reserved for
a European. Speaking alongside Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , Lagarde, who has won endorsements for her bid from
across  Europe , said being French is neither an advantage nor a
drawback to her candidacy.  At a later press conference in Brasilia, Lagarde said the
IMF has a role to improve coordination among countries to ensure
more predictable and stable currencies. Last year, Mantega
complained that countries were competitively devaluing their
exchange rates in a global “currency war.”  Mantega told reporters yesterday that emerging nations have
no plans to rally around a single candidate and that Brazil
would decide who to support after hearing each nominee’s
proposals. Mexican Central Bank Governor Agustin Carstens, who
is trying to win backing from developing countries for his rival
bid, visits Brasilia on June 1.  ‘Democratic Spirit’  “We think it’s good that there’s a variety of candidates
because it shows that there’s a democratic spirit,” Mantega
said.  Brazil will privately support Lagarde’s candidacy to run
the IMF, a Brazilian government official familiar with the
negotiations said May 24. Carstens probably won’t have enough
votes to win, said the official, who requested anonymity because
he isn’t authorized to speak publicly about the issue.  In exchange for its support for the European candidate,
Brazil will push for Lagarde to run the IMF only until the end
of next year, when former head  Dominique Strauss-Kahn ’s term
would have expired, the official said. Brazil doesn’t plan to
declare that support openly, he said.  “Nationality shouldn’t be a qualification to head the
IMF,” Mantega said today. “This rule is outdated.”  Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin on May 27 voiced his
support for Lagarde, joining the U.K., Germany and Sweden. U.S.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has praised Lagarde’s
qualifications while refraining from endorsing her candidacy.
Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today  Japan  has no
preferred candidate at this point.  IMF Tradition  IMF executive directors representing Brazil,  Russia ,  India ,
China and  South Africa  have protested a tradition dating back to
the fund’s creation after World War II that its leader always be
a European.  Mantega today said Brazil “welcomes” Lagarde’s nomination
and he praised her qualifications, though he said the fact that
the next IMF chief will be absorbed by problems in Europe
doesn’t mean they need to come from there.  The IMF said it aims to complete by June 30 the selection
of Strauss-Kahn’s successor. Countries from the European Union
hold about 31 percent of the votes at the agency and the U.S.
almost 17 percent. Emerging market and  developing countries  saw
their share of votes increase to 42 percent, from 40.5 percent,
under Strauss-Kahn’s management.  Europe’s Bailouts  The IMF, which provided a record $91.7 billion in emergency
loans last year and accounts for one-third of the euro-region’s
bailout packages, has promised transparency in the selection
process.  Strauss-Kahn resigned from the post this month to defend
himself against charges that he sexually assaulted and raped a
maid at a Manhattan hotel. Lagarde would be the first woman to
lead the IMF since its founding in 1945.  Mexico’s Carstens served as IMF deputy managing director
from 2003 to 2006. He has a doctorate in economics from the
University of Chicago, and took the reins of  Mexico ’s central
bank in January 2010 after serving as the country’s finance
minister.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Ragir in Rio De Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  