-- 
Mahindra Shares Slump in Mumbai After Quarterly Profit Misses Estimates

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 
2011-05-30T11:03:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/mahindra-profit-misses-estimates-as-material-costs-erode-india-sales-gain.html
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) ,  India ’s
largest maker of sport-utility vehicles and tractors, fell the
most in almost four months in Mumbai after fourth-quarter profit
lagged behind analysts’ estimates.  Mahindra fell 5.9 percent, the most since Feb. 8, to 663.05
rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close of trading, and was the worst
performer on the Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive
Index. The stock has declined 15 percent this year.  The automaker plans to introduce eight more vehicles this
year to spur demand after net income in the three months ended
in March missed analyst estimates for the first time in five
quarters. Prices of steel, rubber and other materials may gain 2
percent more this fiscal year after gaining as much as 7 percent
in the previous 12 months,  Pawan Goenka , chief of Mahindra’s
automotive division, said.  “There may be a small dip in margin on a year-on-year
basis largely because of the commodity prices,” said  Mahantesh Sabarad , a Mumbai-based analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers India
Ltd. who rates Mahindra shares “hold.”  “Commodity prices are
a big challenge they have to work with.”  Mahindra’s operating profit margin in the year ended March
narrowed to 14.7 percent from 15.9 percent, according to Bharat Doshi, its chief financial officer. The company spent 33 percent
more on steel, rubber and other materials during the fourth
quarter as it increased output and rising commodity demand in
China and India pushed up prices.  Employee Costs  The automaker’s employee costs gained 60 percent in the
quarter to 4.3 billion rupees as it raised provision for
interest payments on workers’ provident fund, Doshi said.  Net income in the quarter rose 6.5 percent to 6.07 billion
rupees ($135 million), Mahindra said. That compared with the
6.74 billion-rupee average of 21 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales gained 27 percent to 66.8 billion rupees.  “With both input costs and interest rates rising, the
current economic environment is quite clearly challenging,” the
company said in the statement.  India’s car sales growth may slow to 16 percent in the year
started in April, compared with the 30 percent expansion in the
previous 12 months, Goenka, also the president of the  Society of
Indian Automobile Manufacturers ,  said today.  Mahindra completed the purchase of a 70 percent stake in
 Ssangyong Motor Co. (003620)  earlier this year. The Pyeongtaek, South
Korea-based carmaker plans to spend more than 240 billion won
($222 million) on product development and brand building this
year, Goenka said in March.  Mahindra will spend as much as 58 billion rupees over three
years on capital expenditure, Doshi said. The company had a
standalone debt of 24 billion rupees, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net . 