-- 
Thailand May Raise Interest Rate Fourth Time This Year Ahead of Election

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-05-31T08:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/thailand-may-raise-rate-for-fourth-time-this-year-ahead-of-vote.html
Thailand ’s central bank will probably
increase  interest rates  for the fourth time this year to damp
accelerating inflation, as rising food and fuel prices become a
pivotal issue for the July 3 general election.  The Bank of Thailand will boost its benchmark one-day bond
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 3 percent,
according to all 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
adding to increases of the same amount each in January, March
and April. The decision is due at 2:30 p.m. in Bangkok tomorrow.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  has pledged higher wages
and capped food and diesel costs ahead of the poll, as the
opposition faults his Democrat party for jumps in the cost of
living. The central bank predicts the economy will weather
disruption from  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake, with a report today
showing exports rose 24.7 percent last month from a year earlier.  “The monetary authority will continue to fight price
pressures, which still appear to be rising,” said Benjarong Suwankiri, an economist at TMB Bank Pcl in Bangkok. Populist
policies promising extra spending may add to the challenge of
containing inflation, he said.  The  Thai baht  has declined about 0.8 percent against the
dollar this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
aiding exports while providing less of a damper against a surge
in global commodity costs. The benchmark SET Index of stocks has
climbed 4 percent in the same period, more than any other
Southeast Asian market, as trade gains and  consumer spending 
boosted corporate earnings.  General Election  The forthcoming election in  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest
economy will pit Abhisit’s Democrat party against allies of
fugitive ex-Premier  Thaksin Shinawatra , who was ousted in a 2006
coup and lives overseas. About 100 people have been killed
following disputes over the last election in 2007.  The opposition Pheu Thai Party, led by Thaksin’s sister,
Yingluck Shinawatra, has used billboard advertisements to blame
Abhisit for rising costs. The prime minister pledged in February
to boost the minimum wage by 25 percent over two years to help
the public cope, while Pheu Thai has promised a larger increase
as the parties vie for votes.  “We foresee risks that some populist policies promised by
the political parties may instigate additional pressures on
inflation,” Standard Chartered Plc analysts including Tai Hui
wrote in a May 19 note.  Neighboring Asian central banks from the  India  to  China  are
also raising rates or allowing currency appreciation to fight
inflation.  Economic Growth  Thailand’s gross domestic product climbed 2 percent in the
first quarter from the previous three months, the fastest pace
in a year. Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said
last week the expansion was “better than expected,” adding
inflation pressure remains “high.”  Consumer prices advanced 4.04 percent in April from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in 15 months. The nation may need to
curb diesel subsidies as funding runs out, according to Finance
Minister  Korn Chatikavanij , pointing to a future shift that
could stoke inflation.  Core prices, which exclude fresh food and fuel, rose 2.07
percent last month from a year earlier, accelerating from a 1.62
percent pace in March. The central bank uses the core figure to
guide policy and aims to keep it below 3 percent. It may rise to
that level by September, Deputy Governor Atchana Waiquamdee said
May 27.  Japan Impact  Thailand’s manufacturing output declined the most in 20
months in April after the March 11 disaster in Japan, its
largest trading partner, disrupted supply chains.  The nation’s current account swung into a deficit of $165
million last month, the central bank said today, compared with a
surplus of $1.88 billion in March. The median of eight estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a shortfall of $700 million
in April.  “We expect May to be another month that will be hurt by the
impact from Japan’s quake,” said Bank of Thailand Director
Mathee Supapongse. “The impact will start to fade from the third
quarter. Price pressure continued to build up both from the
gradual pass through of production costs into goods prices and
rising demand.”  Local companies such as  Aapico Hitech Pcl (AH) , an auto parts
maker, have cut revenue forecasts as the interruptions reduce
vehicle production in Southeast Asia’s second-largest economy.  “The big picture of economic strength remains unchanged
and we see production recovering strongly in the second half,”
Wellian Wiranto, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Singapore ,
wrote in a note on May 27. “Bank of Thailand too has this
trajectory in mind and the industrial production number is
unlikely to shake it off its hawkishness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  