-- 
Caterpillar, GE, MAN, Offices Raided in EU Antitrust Probe

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-05-30T13:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/man-ge-say-they-were-raided-by-eu-antitrust-officials.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  General Electric
Co. (GE)  and  MAN SE (MAN)  said they were inspected last week by European
Commission antitrust officials who were probing possible
collusion among producers of industrial piston engines.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, and the offices of its British unit Perkins
were visited by EU regulators and the company is “cooperating
fully with the officials,” Eric Amstutz, a spokesman for
Caterpillar in Geneva, said in an e-mail today.  GE and MAN said they are also cooperating with the
commission after company offices were raided by the EU’s
antitrust agency.  European Union regulators said on May 27 that they had
“reason to believe” that the companies may have violated the
region’s price-fixing rules. The dawn raids, which took place
two days earlier, are a first step in antitrust probes that may
lead to fines of up to 10 percent of yearly revenue. Such
inspections are a “preliminary step” and don’t necessarily
mean the companies are guilty, the commission said.  GE Jenbacher, an Austrian producer of diesel and gas
engines bought by GE in 2003, was visited by EU regulators at
its facilities in Jenbach,  Austria , said Greg Farrett, a
spokesman for GE in Brussels, in an e-mail.  “GE is offering its full assistance to the commission and
is cooperating with the investigation,” Farrett said.  MAN’s offices were visited last week and the company
“decided to cooperate with the authorities,” Stefan Straub, a
spokesman for the company in Munich, said in a phone interview.  Tognum AG (TGM) , a German maker of industrial engines, wasn’t
raided and received a written request for information from
regulators last week, Julia Loeffelsend, a spokeswoman for
the Friedrichshafen-based company, said by phone.  Fighting cartels is “the top priority in competition
enforcement,”  Joaquin Almunia , the European Union’s
competition chief, said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  