-- 
Andean Nations Overtaking Mexican Stock Exchange Lure ING, Global X Funds

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t ,   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-05-30T19:02:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/andean-nations-overtaking-mexican-stock-exchange-lures-ing-global-x-funds.html
The integration of  stock trading  in
Chile, Colombia and Peru is prompting  ING Groep NV (INGA)  to create a
mutual fund that invests in the three countries, Global X Funds
to start a regional exchange-traded fund and Colombia’s  Helm
Bank SA (PFBHELMB)  to form an alliance with Chile’s Empresas Penta SA.  Trading on the new exchange, known as MILA, began today,
more than six months after the exchanges in the three countries
agreed to allow cross-border transactions and create Latin
America’s second-biggest stock market after  Brazil .  “There’s a lot of attention on Latin America, and the
message we want to send is that there are alternatives to
Brazil,” Juan Pablo Cordoba, head of Colombia’s exchange, said
in an interview in Bogota. “We’re making it easier for foreign
investors to get into our market.”  The combined size is luring financial-services firms
looking to take advantage of an increase in trading volume as
companies such as Chile’s  Lan Airlines SA (LAN) , Colombia’s
 Interconexion Electrica SA (ISA)  and Peru’s Grana y Montero SA step up
their regional operations.  ING received approval from Peruvian regulators this month
for its ING Mercados Integrados FMIV mutual fund. Global X Funds
launched in February the Andean 40 ETF that invests in the 40
largest MILA companies. Bogota-based Helm’s alliance with
Santiago-based Penta will allow clients to buy Chilean stocks
with Colombian pesos, according to a May 24 statement.  ‘Regional Players’  “There’s significant capital market integration and we see
more companies like Lan becoming regional players and acquiring
assets across borders,” said Bruno del Ama, chief executive
officer of Global X Funds, an exchange-traded fund company that
manages $1.8 billion.  The integration initially will allow trading across the
three exchanges before creating a single platform in a second
stage.  Mexico  and  Panama  may join as part of an agreement signed
last month. Bogota and  Lima  plan to take the arrangement a step
further by completing  Latin America ’s first merger of exchanges.  The Andean exchanges plan to start their S&P MILA40 Index
“in the coming days,” Cordoba told reporters today. He said 30
of the 40 companies in the index trade more than $1 million a
day.  ‘Larger Flows’  Integration gives the Andean region a leg up with U.S.
funds that look to Brazil for larger trading volume, said
Fernando Carrera, a  fund manager  in Peru for ING, the largest
Dutch financial-services company.  “Our first requisite is liquidity, we must gain larger
flows,” Carrera said by telephone from Lima.  MILA stocks have a combined value of $655 billion,
surpassing Mexico’s $468 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Average daily traded volume in the past year was $216
million in  Chile , $93 million in Colombia and $29.3 million in
Peru. That compares with Mexico’s $639 million and Brazil’s
$3.79 billion.  Chile’s benchmark index, the IPSA, has outperformed its
MILA peers so far this year with a 1.9 percent retreat. Peru’s
IGBVL has declined 9 percent in the same period while Colombia’s
IGBC has slumped 7.1 percent. The main indexes in Brazil and
Mexico have fallen 7.6 percent and 7.5 percent, respectively.  Lure IPOs  MILA will attract more initial public offerings on the
three exchanges from companies looking to tap the region’s
combined savings pool, said Andres Gomez, chief of operations at
Bogota-based brokerage Serfinco SA, which manages about $1.5
billion in assets.  “A market with more depth and volume will attract more
IPOs; that’s one of the reasons this was created,” said Gomez.  Brokers in the region are seeking cross-border alliances so
they can place orders in other countries. Beginning as soon as
next year, they will standardize platforms to trade directly in
all three markets as regulators sync clearing and settlement
rules, according to a report by Santiago-based Larrain Vial SA.  MILA’s launch was pushed back three months after Peru’s
congress delayed passage of a law standardizing capital gains
taxes. Larrain Vial said tax codes vary: the dividend tax, for
instance, ranges from 4.1 percent in Peru to 33 percent in
 Colombia  to as much as 40 percent in Chile.  “The tax issue causes skepticism,” said Santiago Abugarade, Latin American equities market manager at Celfin
Capital. “It’s a point to be resolved.”  ‘Distrust, Political Problems’  Politics pose other obstacles. It isn’t clear who will fill
the shoes of outgoing Peruvian President  Alan Garcia  as the
“driver” of MILA and regional economic integration, said
 Michael Shifter , president of the Inter American Dialogue in
 Washington , a policy research organization.  “We’ve seen comparable initiatives, and frustrations
usually stem from distrust and political problems,” he said.
“I don’t think those problems have completely disappeared.”  Peru’s benchmark stock index fell the most in six weeks
today on speculation that former army renegade Ollanta Humala, a
one-time ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , may win a
presidential runoff and curtail foreign investment. Presidential
polls published yesterday showed falling support for his
opponent, Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori, narrowing her lead over
Humala to 4.1 percent.  Trading volume in  Peru  will grow by 25 percent annually
once the country “calms down” following the June vote, Lima
Stock Exchange President Roberto Hoyle said in an interview at
the exchange today.  ”The market has to absorb who’s going to govern the
country for the next five years,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net 
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  