-- 
ArcelorMittal South Africa Joins Legal Action Over Sishen Mine

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-05-30T06:44:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/arcelormittal-south-africa-joins-legal-action-over-mining-rights-at-sishen.html
ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , the
continent’s largest steelmaker, said it joined court proceedings
started by  Anglo American Plc (AGL)  unit  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  over
prospecting rights at South Africa’s Sishen iron ore mine.  The steelmaker, a unit of Luxembourg-based  ArcelorMittal (MT) ,
lost its 21.4 percent stake in Sishen after failing to renew its
rights by May 2009. The rights were then awarded to Imperial
Crown Trading, a company partially owned by President Jacob Zuma’sson Duduzane.  Kumba, which holds the rights to the rest of the Sishen
deposit, had also applied for ArcelorMittal South Africa’s
portion when the steelmaker’s rights expired under South
Africa’s old mining laws. The Vanderbijlpark-based steelmaker is
Kumba’s biggest client.  “The Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act does
not allow for the conversion of only a fraction of an old order
mining right,” ArcelorMittal South Africa said in documents
filed with the  High Court  in Johannesburg, according to
spokesman Themba Hlengani.  “As the matter is sub-judice, we cannot say anymore than
is contained in our court documents,” Hlengani said by phone
from Johannesburg yesterday.  The steelmaker on Aug. 10 said it offered to buy ICT for
800 million rand ($116 million), subject to ICT keeping the
prospecting rights, in a bid to restore a canceled supply
agreement with Kumba. The case will be heard on June 2.  ICT director and co-owner Jagdish Parekh didn’t immediately
respond to a message left on his mobile phone. Calls by
Bloomberg News to his office seeking comment weren’t answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  