-- 
Mardy Fish’s Exit at French Open Highlights a Quiet Era for U.S. Tennis

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-30T22:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/mardy-fish-s-exit-at-french-open-highlights-a-quiet-era-for-u-s-tennis.html
Mardy Fish’s loss in the third round
of the  French Open  ended the chances of both his first Grand
Slam title and the start of a U.S. tennis resurgence.  Fish, eliminated by  France ’s Gilles Simon on May 28, was
the final American playing in the clay court tournament in
Paris, the second major event of the tennis year. A few hours
earlier, Vania King, the last U.S. woman in the third round, had
also lost. That left no American players in the last sixteen of
Roland Garros for the first time since tennis turned
professional in 1968.  With the gap between U.S. men’s Grand Slam singles titles
an unprecedented seven years and growing, and just one American
in the top 10 on either the men’s or women’s tours, future
success may have to come from experimental development programs
or players emigrating from other countries, former players and
agents say.  “We’ve been spoiled on some level: they just expected it
to happen just because we had past success,”  John McEnroe , a
seven-time Grand Slam singles champion from the U.S., said in an
interview. “You can’t count on that continuing to happen.”  In quarterfinals action in Paris today, Roger Federer, the
2009 French Open champion from  Switzerland , faces France’s Gael Monfils. The winner of that match will play No. 2 Novak Djokovic
of Serbia, who moved to the semifinals yesterday after his
quarterfinals opponent, Fabio Fognini of Italy, pulled out with
an injury. Women’s defending champion Francesca Schiavone of
Italy faces  Russia ’s Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova for a spot in the
last four.  Big Shoes to Fill  “Unsuccessful,” Fish told a news conference after his
loss, when asked to sum up the American participation in Paris.  There were nine men and nine women from the U.S. in the
 French Open  singles draws.  “We come here every year sort of with the same question:
When are we going to put somebody in the quarters?,” said Fish,
29.  No American man has reached the last eight at Roland Garros
since  Andre Agassi  in 2003 and none has reached the semifinals
since Agassi won his only French title in 1999.  Bethanie Mattek-Sands, ranked No. 34 on the WTA Tour, was
the top American woman at Roland Garros. Mattek-Sands said after
her second-round victory that the country’s past success makes
her situation difficult.  “When you think of American tennis, you think No. 1 in the
world, or top 10, and I am not there yet,” said the Rochester,
Minnesota native, who was beaten by former top-ranked Jelena Jankovic of  Serbia  in the third round. “I am working on it,
obviously that’s my goal, but being a good player for U.S.
tennis, that’s big shoes to fill,”  No Williams Sisters  Three weeks ago, there were no American men or women in the
top 10 rankings for the first time ever. Tampa, Florida-based
Fish has since reclaimed the No. 10 spot on the ATP World Tour.
Entering the French Open, there were no U.S. women in the WTA
Tour’s top 15.  Andy Roddick , the second-highest ranked American man and
last to win a Grand Slam trophy with the 2003 U.S. Open, missed
the French Open because of a shoulder injury.  Serena Williams 
and  Venus Williams , sisters who have combined for 20 Grand Slam
singles titles, were also absent. Serena hasn’t played since
winning Wimbledon last July because of a foot injury and
treatment for a clot in her lung, and Venus pulled out of the
tournament with an abdominal injury.  Christina McHale , a 19-year-old from Englewood Cliffs,  New
Jersey , entered the top 100 in March. She said last month in
Rome that though she is part of a new generation of U.S.
players, she didn’t feel added pressure now that the Williams
sisters weren’t competing.  “It’s more of an opportunity for the young Americans
coming through,” said McHale, who lost in the opening round of
the French Open to Sara Errani of  Italy .  Longest Grand Slam Drought  There never has been a longer period in the Open era than
the 30 consecutive Grand Slams, including this year’s French
Open, that hasn’t included a U.S. male singles winner. From 1956
through 1962, the lone U.S. men’s champion was Alex Olmedo, a
citizen of Peru who played under the American flag when he
captured the Australian Open and Wimbledon in 1959, according to
those tournaments’ websites.  Of the seven American men ranked in the current top 90,
only  Sam Querrey  (No. 28) and Ryan Sweeting (No. 70), both 23
years old, are younger than 26.  Donald Young won the 2005 Australian Open Junior
Championships and the 2007 Junior Wimbledon, and was labeled by
some tennis commentators as the next great American hope. Now
21, Young didn’t receive an invitation to the French Open
qualifiers this year and never has advanced past the third round
of a Grand Slam.  Next Big Hope?  The future of U.S. tennis may lie in players like Sweeting,
who was born in the Bahamas and switched nationalities after
moving to the  United States  at a young age. The fourth-highest
American woman is 25-year-old Varvara Lepchenko, originally from
Uzbekistan and now living in Allentown,  Pennsylvania .  Maria Shishkina is a 12-year-old playing under the American
flag born in Kazakhstan who’s now training at the IMG
Bollettieri Tennis Academy, training ground to former American
Grand Slam winners Andre Agassi, Jim Courier, Monica Seles and
both Williams sisters. She recently signed a sponsorship deal
with Under Armour Inc. founder Kevin Plank.  Max Eisenbud, Shishkina’s agent at IMG, said that he
expects to see a lot of future American players coming from
other countries, because the U.S. youth tend to focus on other
sports.  “Our best athletes don’t play tennis,” Eisenbud, who also
represents Russia’s Maria Sharapova and  China ’s  Li Na , said in
an interview this month. “If you look around the Eastern
Europeans, their best athletes are playing tennis.”  Roger Federer , the 16-time Grand Slam singles champion who
spent a record 237 weeks ranked No. 1 on the ATP World Tour from
2004 to 2008, said the lack of success from American youth is a
trend seen around the world.  Patience  “There are not that many teenagers in the top 100, so I
think many countries are going through a phase where they do not
have the talent they hoped to have,” Federer, 29, said at a
press conference in Rome two weeks before Roland Garros. “Those
countries have to be patient and this creates a lot of pressure
on the people working in the federations and the media.”  McEnroe said that if there is a positive to come out of the
current American tennis drought, it’s that the sport’s athletes,
marketers and executives can no longer ignore the issue. The
U.S. Tennis Association this year launched a 10-and-under game,
with smaller courts and different balls, aimed at promoting the
sport to a younger U.S. audience.  “The good news is that more and more people are aware that
we need to start thinking out of the box a lot more, and to
really be aggressive and try to go after this a lot more that we
have in the past,” McEnroe said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh at the French Open in Paris at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 