-- 
France Criticizes German Retreat From Nuclear Power in Wake of Fukushima

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-30T14:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/areva-s-lauvergeon-says-germany-will-import-nuclear-power.html
The German government’s decision to
close all its nuclear plants in a decade will lead to greater
dependence on fossil fuels, increase carbon emissions and
require imported atomic power, French officials said.  “ Germany  will be even more dependent on fossil fuels and
imports and its electricity will be more expensive and
polluting,” French Industry Minister Eric Besson said in a
statement. German households pay twice as much for power than
homes in  France , where 80 percent of electricity comes from
atomic plants, he said.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition today announced that
all the country’s 17 reactors will close by 2022, reversing a
plan pushed through parliament last year to extend the operation
of the facilities by an average of 12 years. Merkel said in
March that  Japan ’s Fukushima disaster, the worst nuclear crisis
since 1986, forced her to rethink her support for atomic power.  “It’s hard to see how they will replace the energy,”  Anne Lauvergeon , chief executive officer of state-run Areva SA, the
world’s biggest maker of nuclear equipment, said on BFM Radio.
“I’m not sure there is enough Polish coal, and it creates
carbon problems. Alternative energy sources are intermittent
sources. I think they will do what  Austria  did in its time:
import nuclear electricity from neighboring countries.”  The move “will result in higher electricity costs in
Germany, with consequences for industry,” said Lauvergeon.  German Imports  Germany is  Europe ’s largest power market, followed by
France. Germany last year was a net exporter of power to France,
sending 16.1 terawatt hours to the country compared with imports
of 9.4 terawatt hours, according to data published by grid
operator Reseau de Transport d’Electricite.  This trend was reversed last month following the accident
at Fukushima and the subsequent decision by Merkel to halt
Germany’s oldest reactors. In April, France was a net exporter
of power to Germany for the first time since the summer months
of June, July and August last year, according to RTE.  Merkel has repeatedly said that Germany must remain a net
exporter of energy, stressing that there is no point closing
German nuclear plants only to import nuclear power from other
countries.  France has increasingly imported power in recent years amid
cold snaps and heat waves when base electricity provided by
Electricite de France SA’s 58 atomic reactors needs to
supplemented by thermal or renewable sources.  EDF is developing a new atomic plant at Flamanville in
Normandy and has plans for another in northern France at Penly.
Since the Fukushima disaster in March, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who is facing an election next year, has vowed to
continue to invest in the atomic industry.  Carole Trivi, spokeswoman for EDF, the largest power
producer in Europe and its largest operator of nuclear plants,
declined to comment on the German government’s decision.  Polls  Unlike in Germany, polls have shown the French to be more
ambivalent about nuclear energy. A TNS Sofres poll in March
indicated just 19 percent of respondents wanting a rapid
reversal of the country’s reliance on atomic power.  “There’s a sensitivity, a passion about this issue that is
unique in Germany,” Lauvergeon said. “This was a totally
political decision, even if polls do show that it was supported
by public opinion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  