-- 
ARM, Glencore, Rio Tinto, Vedanta: U.K., Irish Equity Preview

-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t
-- 
2011-05-30T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/arm-glencore-rio-tinto-vedanta-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
that may have unusual share-price changes in U.K. and Irish
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from
the last market close.  The FTSE 100 Index gained 57.88 points, or 1 percent, to
5,938.87. The FTSE All-Share Index rose 1 percent to 3,094.62,
while Ireland’s ISEQ fell 0.4 percent to 2,956.28.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  : The owner of chip technology
used in Apple Inc. (AAPL US) iPhones expects to have 50 percent
share of the mobile-device market by 2015, President Tudor Brown
said in Taipei. The shares gained 1.4 percent to 572.5 pence.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  : The second-biggest U.K. bank by
assets would be interested in buying a Spanish saving bank if it
received Spanish government guarantees against losses on the
loan portfolio, the Sunday Times reported, without saying where
it got the information. The stock advanced 1.5 percent to 275.25
pence.  BP Plc (BP/)  : The London-based oil producer’s Russian
joint venture, TNK-BP, is considering a bid for ConocoPhillips
Vietnamese assets, which may be valued at as much as $1.5
billion, the Independent on Sunday reported, without saying
where it got the information. The shares fell 0.3 percent to
459.65 pence.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN LN): Investor Relations
Manager Nicholas Bias has left the world’s largest commodities
trader, which conducted an initial public offering of shares in
May, less than four months after starting in the role, according
to a person with knowledge of the matter. The shares gained 0.4
percent to 523.7 pence.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  : The bank plans to sell
its German life insurance company, Heidelberger Leben, according
to a person with knowledge of the lender’s plans. The shares
climbed 2.8 percent to 52.76 pence.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  : The world’s third-largest platinum
producer resumed “limited production” at its Karee operations
in  South Africa  after it fired workers following an illegal
strike. The stock gained 2.5 percent to 1,572 pence.  Pace Plc (PIC)  : Allan Leighton, the former chief
executive officer of Asda and former chairman of  Royal Mail ,
will be named chairman of the world’s biggest maker of digital
television set-top boxes, Sky News reported on its website,
without saying where it got the information. The shares fell 1.2
percent to 114.9 pence.  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  : The maker of Lysol
cleaners may sell the personal-care unit it acquired when buying
 India ’s Paras Pharmaceuticals last year, the Business Standard
said, citing sources it didn’t identify. The stock declined 0.2
percent to 3,392 pence.  Rio Tinto  Group (RIO LN): The world’s third-largest mining
company signed an agreement with Xiangtan Electric Manufacturing
Corp. to purchase mining trucks from the Chinese company,
according to an e-mailed statement. The shares advanced 2.9
percent to 4,267 pence.  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  : The world’s second-largest
maker of jet engines is bidding on a $2.5 billion contract to
build turbine engines for Petroleo Brasileiro SA as part of a
plan to expand in Latin America, the Financial Times reported.
The shares gained 1.1 percent to 630 pence.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  : Iraq gave Royal Dutch
Shell until next week to come to terms on a $12.5 billion
natural-gas project and said it will sign an agreement in two
days with Korea Gas Corp. to develop the Akkas field.  Separately, Royal Dutch Shell Plc signed a framework
agreement with PetroChina Co.’s Xinjiang oilfield, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported, without giving further details. The
shares advanced 0.3 percent to 2,134 pence.  Sage Group Plc (SGE)  : The U.K. software maker has begun
a review of its health-care division that may lead to a sale,
the Sunday Times reported, without saying where it got the
information. The stock gained 1.4 percent to 286.7 pence.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  : The London-based miner may
accept the Indian government’s conditions for approving its
planned $9.4 billion bid for control of Cairn India Ltd. as high
crude  oil prices  make the deal attractive, investors said. The
stock jumped 3.7 percent to 2,169 pence.  -- Editor: Nick Baker  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  