-- 
ARM Says Microsoft Software Opens Door to Televisions, Cars

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-05-30T11:56:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/arm-says-microsoft-deal-may-generate-royalties-from-late-2012.html
ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , whose chip designs
are used in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, said  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s adoption
of its technology will help Windows software expand into cars
and televisions.  ARM may start generating royalties from chips using its
technology in Windows-based laptops and tablets as early as next
year, President Tudor Brown said in an interview today.
Microsoft’s use of ARM technology will help the Cambridge,
England-based chip designer gain market share, he said.  Microsoft will preview a  Windows operating system  designed
for tablets this week, according to three people familiar with
knowledge of the plans. Adapting Windows to better support
devices that can compete with Apple Inc.’s iPad will also help
ARM increase market share and may open the door for new uses for
its technology, Brown said.  “Where it gets potentially game-changing is, what other
opportunities does it open up for Microsoft,” Brown said in
Taipei. “This opens up a much bigger market, and makes a valid
and viable operating system for” TVs and automotive
electronics, he said.  ARM seeks new applications for its chip technology as it
faces competition from  Intel Corp ., the world’s biggest computer
chipmaker. Semiconductors based on ARM’s designs are used in
most tablet computers, including Apple’s iPad, and the company
is also targeting the server computing market.  Tegra Chip  ARM expects its share of the market for chips used in
mobile computers, such as tablets, notebooks and low-cost
netbooks, to jump fivefold to 50 percent by 2015, Brown said.
The company’s current 10 percent market share will expand to 15
percent by the end of the year, he said.  “We’re going to see tablets, and eventually laptops and
servers using ARM-based operating systems, which should open
significant opportunities,” said Jerome Ramel, a Paris-based
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas with a “neutral” rating on the
stock. “For servers and laptops, power consumption is becoming
crucial, and ARM is all about power consumption.”  ARM has risen 35 percent in London trading this year,
giving the company a market value of 7.7 billion pounds ($12.7
billion). The stock added 1.4 percent to 572.5 pence on May 27.
U.K. and U.S. markets are closed for holidays today.  Josie Taylor, a Microsoft spokeswoman, doesn’t immediately
have a comment.  Microsoft will showcase the operating system’s touch-screen
interface running on hardware with an  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  Tegra chip,
said the people last week, declining to be identified because
the plans are confidential.  Global shipments of tablets will climb to 215 million units
in 2015 from 17 million last year,  Toni Sacconaghi , a New York-
based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a May 26
report. The devices will cannibalize purchases of consumer PCs,
reducing computer sales growth by 2 percent annually between
2010 and 2015, Sacconaghi wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn at   crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  