-- 
Canada’s Harper Makes Afghanistan Stop to Mark End of Military Mission

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-05-30T19:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/harper-makes-surprise-afghanistan-visit-to-troops-to-mark-end-of-mission.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper made a surprise stop in  Afghanistan  to mark the end of
the country’s decade-long  military mission  in the country, and
pay tribute to fallen soldiers.  Harper made his fourth trip to the Asian country less than
a month after his third consecutive election victory, visiting
troops and laying a wreath at a memorial to commemorate
Canadians who died during the conflict. Harper ended his 11-hour
visit with a speech at the Kandahar military base where he noted
Canada’s combat mission in Afghanistan, to end in July, has gone
as long as Canadian fighting in both World Wars combined.  “As the combat mission here in Kandahar draws to a close,
and Canadian boots no longer tread this dusty ground, always
remember that we Canadians do not dream of empire, we do not
covet what other nations possess and we do not make war to
advance selfish or cynical ends,” Harper told about 1,000
troops in front of a giant red maple leaf Canadian flag held up
by two light armored vehicles.  Harper’s Canadian Forces C-17 transport plane landed at the
Kandahar Air Field at about 10 a.m. Afghanistan time amid tight
security after taking off from  Qatar  for what was publicly
scheduled as a flight to Ottawa from  Athens . The trip’s details
were kept secret until his departure, because of security
concerns. Harper had been in  France  for the summit of leaders
from the Group of Eight, and in Athens for talks with Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  before traveling to Qatar to
join Defense Minister Peter MacKay for the flight to Kandahar.  Leaving Troops  Harper committed during 2008 elections to withdraw Canada’s
troops amid falling support for the military campaign as
casualties mounted, pledging to refocus the mission toward
development and training of Afghan forces. Canada, which now has
3,000 soldiers in the country, has said it plans to leave as
many as 950 troops in Afghanistan for training.  Canada’s withdrawal is part of a broader plan by Western
allies to hand over security to Afghan forces in all the
country’s provinces by 2014, a target date set by NATO leaders
at a summit meeting in Lisbon last November. By July,
Afghanistan’s national army will take over security in three
provinces and four cities, President  Hamid Karzai  said in March.  The U.S. has about 97,000 soldiers in the country after
adding 30,000 to its force last year. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration is deciding how many troops it will leave when a
withdrawal program begins in July.  The Canadian leader said he’s confident Afghan forces will
be ready to take control of the country’s security.  ‘Remain Optimistic’  “We remain optimistic and you know we’ll put our shoulder
to the wheel and accomplish this,” Harper told reporters at a
press conference following his speech. “Foreign soldiers are
not the final solution to this particular conflict.”  Harper told reporters the mission already is a success
because “Afghanistan is no longer a threat to the world.” The
Taliban, which gave shelter to Osama  bin Laden ’s al-Qaeda
movement, were ousted from power by the U.S.-led coalition that
invaded Afghanistan after the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.
Bin Laden was killed May 2 by U.S. Navy SEAL commandos in
 Pakistan .  One hundred and fifty-six Canadian soldiers have died in
Afghanistan since 2002, the greatest number of casualties for
the country since the  Korean War . The wreath-laying ceremony at
the base was also attended by professional hockey player Jarome Iginla, captain of the Calgary Flames, and Marie-Philip Poulin
and Jayna Hefford of Canada’s 2010 gold medal-winning women’s
hockey team.  Served Lunch  Upon arriving in Afghanistan, Harper immediately left on a
Chinook helicopter to visit a base of about 500 soldiers near
Sperwan Ghar, a village in the Panjwai district of southern
Kandahar province about 41 kilometers (25 miles) from the
airfield. With temperatures touching 40 degrees Celsius (104
Fahrenheit), Harper drove up to the top of a look-out hill at
the outpost and entered a surveillance bunker with MacKay. He
also served lunch at a mess hall and took pictures with
soldiers.  Harper, wearing a camouflaged protective vest and khaki
pants, then flew to a former al-Qaeda training camp that has
been turned into a wheat and barley field, where he advised one
farmer to get the crop to market soon because prices were good.  Soon after taking power in February 2006, Harper became a
staunch defender of the mission that had been put into place by
the previous Liberal government. Harper visited Afghanistan just
five weeks after becoming prime minister, and two months later,
pushed a vote through Parliament to extend the mission for an
additional two years.  As casualties mounted, Harper’s ability to sustain public
support for a combat mission weakened and opposition parties
began to call for troops to be brought home, leaving his
Conservative government, which at the time held a minority of
seats in Parliament, increasingly isolated on the issue.  The end of the combat mission will help  Canada  reduce
spending as the country seeks to return its budget to balance by
the fiscal year that begins April 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Kandahar, Afghanistan at 
Or  targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 