-- 
Asia Stocks Swing Between Gains and Losses on U.S. Economy, Gold

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-05-30T03:30:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/asian-stocks-fall-led-by-exporters-after-u-s-consumption-housing-data.html
Asian stocks swung between gains and
losses after reports showed consumer spending in the U.S.
increased less than economists’ estimates and sales of
previously owned homes fell.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM)  gained as  gold
prices  rose.  Newcrest Mining,  Australia ’s No. 1 gold producer, gained
0.8 percent in Sydney. Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world’s
biggest shipbuilder, increased 2.6 percent in  Seoul  after BNP
Paribas raised its share-price forecast. Samsung Electronics Co.,
the world’s largest maker of televisions and flat-screen panels,
lost 0.8 percent. Honda Motor Co., which gets about 44 percent
of sales in  North America , dropped 1 percent after hackers
accessed personal data of customers in  Canada .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.2 percent to 134.67 as
of 12:24 p.m. in  Tokyo , with the regional benchmark index
swinging between gains and losses at least five times. About
five stocks climbed for every four that fell on the gauge, which
last week completed its longest string of weekly losses in two
years as concern deepened over  Europe ’s debt crisis and amid
speculation a slowing global recovery will crimp earnings.  “Equity markets will continue to have a correction as
leading indicators in the U.S. are softening,”  Pu Yonghao , Hong
Kong-based chief investment strategist for Asia Pacific at UBS
Wealth Management, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“The market is basically waiting for a confirmation that the
U.S. economic recovery is genuine.”  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 0.1 percent.  South
Korea ’s Kospi Index lost 0.1 percent and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index slipped 0.2 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index gained
0.3 percent, while  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index added 0.3
percent.  ‘Tipping Point of Correction’  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent
today. In  New York , the index advanced 0.4 percent to 1,330.10
on May 27 as comments from the Group of Eight about the global
economy’s strength offset a slump in home sales that was 12
times faster than projected. U.S. markets are closed today for
memorial day.  Nouriel Roubini , the economist who predicted the global
financial crisis, said on May 27 stock markets are at the
“tipping point” of a correction as economic growth may begin
to slow.  The number of Americans signing contracts to buy previously
owned homes fell 12 percent last month, the second-biggest drop
in a decade’s worth of records, data from the National
Association of Realtors released in  Washington  on May 27 showed.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a 1
percent decline.  Household spending in the U.S. rose 0.4 percent in April
after a revised 0.5 percent March gain, Commerce Department
figures released in Washington on May 27 showed. The median
forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected
 consumer spending  would rise 0.5 percent last month. Estimates
ranged from gains of 0.3 percent to 0.6 percent  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 