-- 
Australia First-Quarter Company Profits Unexpectedly Fall

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-30T02:41:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/australia-first-quarter-company-profits-unexpectedly-fall-1-.html
Australian business profits
unexpectedly dropped in the three months through March for a
third consecutive quarter as earnings weakened at mining
companies and utilities.  Gross operating profits fell 2 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three months, when they declined a revised 1.7
percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. That
compares with the median forecast for a 2 percent gain in a
Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists.  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor Glenn Stevens has held
the official cash rate target for the past five meetings to help
Queensland state’s economy recover from flood and cyclone
damage. Australia’s exports of  iron ore  and coal are helping
propel economic growth, and the RBA said May 6 that higher rates
will likely be needed “at some point” to contain inflation.  “Mining fell sharply, but we know the string of natural
disasters is hitting hard here,” said  Adam Carr , a senior
economist at ICAP Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “The data
highlights overall that once the effects of the floods subside,
the Australian economy will be doing very well indeed.”  The Australian dollar was little changed after the report,
trading at $1.0701 at 12:40 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0705 just
before the data were released.  The local currency has gained about 26 percent against its
U.S. counterpart in the past 12 months, the third-best performer
among the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Annual Rise  From a year earlier, profits advanced 9.5 percent, today’s
report showed.  Profits at  utility companies  declined 7 percent in the
first quarter and mining dropped 6.6 percent, according to
today’s report. Profits at wholesalers rose 11.6 percent and
manufacturers’ earnings gained 7.5 percent.  Inventories held by companies rose 0.4 percent. Economists
had forecast a 0.1 percent gain.  Gross operating profit measures earnings before tax,
interest, depreciation and amortization. It excludes asset sales
and foreign-exchange gains or losses.  The RBA has held the official cash rate at 4.75 percent as
weaker retail sales, a slowdown in record job growth and higher
household savings give mining more capacity to expand.  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  and  David Jones  Ltd., Australia’s
biggest department store chains, on May 11 reported declines in
quarterly sales. Melbourne-based Myer’s sales fell 2 percent to
A$657 million ($703 million) in the three months ended April 30,
and Sydney-based David Jones, the second-largest chain, posted a
1.4 percent drop in revenue to A$411.7 million in the same
period.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  