-- 
Australia GDP Likely Shrank for First Time Since 2008 on Flood Disruptions

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 
2011-05-31T04:51:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/australia-gdp-likely-shrank-for-first-time-since-2008-on-flood-disruptions.html
Australia ’s economy probably shrank
last quarter by the most in two decades as floods inundated coal
mines and farmland, a contraction the central bank sees as
temporary before growth rebounds in the second half of the year.  First-quarter gross domestic product fell 1.1 percent from
the previous three months, the biggest drop since Australia’s
last recession in 1991, according to the median of 22 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey. Prior to a report earlier today
showing a reduced contribution to GDP from exports, the median
was a 0.3 percent decline.  “The weakness of the data this morning is probably
sufficient to make the  Reserve Bank  delay raising  interest rates 
a month longer than I thought,” said  Stephen Roberts , a senior
economist at Nomura Australia Ltd. in Sydney who had forecast an
increase when the RBA meets June 7. “They’ve got a bit more
time -- though they’ll still need to get in” before a second-
quarter inflation report due July 27, he said.  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens has pledged to look past data
distorted by natural disasters and said rates will rise “at
some point” to contain inflation. The local currency has risen
27 percent in the past 12 months as companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  increase hiring to meet Chinese and Indian demand
for iron ore and coal, pushing unemployment below 5 percent.  Compared with a year earlier, Australia’s economy probably
expanded 0.8 percent in the first quarter, after gaining 2.7
percent from a year earlier in the previous period, the survey
of economists showed.  Net Exports  Australia’s current-account deficit widened more than
economists forecast in the three months through March as the
natural disasters hurt resource shipments, a government report
showed today. Net exports subtracted 2.4 percentage points from
GDP growth in the first quarter, more than double the decline
economists forecast, the Bureau of Statistics said.  The local currency was little changed after the report,
trading at $1.0713 at 2:32 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0741 before
the release.  Driving the economy is mining investment the government
estimates will be A$76 billion ($82 billion) next fiscal year.
BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, is expanding its iron
ore operations in Western Australia state’s Pilbara region.
energy companies are also considering new developments.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  say they plan to
approve a liquefied natural gas venture in the middle of this
year and begin exports in 2015. The proposal, in Queensland
state, follows  Santos Ltd. (STO)  and BG Group Plc developments and may
cost more than A$20 billion, according to Citigroup.  Two-Speed Economy  “Some areas of the economy are expected to be very strong,
while conditions will be quite difficult in others due to the
appreciation of the  exchange rate  and subdued  consumer
spending ,” the central bank said in a quarterly review in
Sydney on May 6.  Household spending accounts for 54 percent of Australia’s
economy, and a government report this month showed retail sales
unexpectedly fell 0.5 percent in March, the first decline in
five months. Sales adjusted to remove inflation stagnated in the
three months through March from the previous quarter.  The local dollar surpassed $1.10 on May 2, the highest
level since it was freely floated in 1983. The currency’s
strength is hurting exporters including Henderson, Western
Australia-based shipbuilder  Austal Ltd. (ASB)   Restrictive Rates  The RBA’s benchmark interest rate of 4.75 percent is the
developed world’s highest, raising debt payments for homeowners.
 Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  and  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) , Australia’s biggest
department store chains, reported declines in quarterly sales on
May 11.  A central bank report today showed loans provided by
Australian banks and finance companies were unchanged in April
from the previous month. A separate government report showed
building approvals fell in April, the third drop in the past
four months.  In a quarterly outlook released May 6, the RBA forecast
growth will be 4.25 percent this year, unchanged from its
February estimate. Consumer prices will rise 3.25 percent over
the period, from a previous prediction of 3 percent, and  core
inflation  will quicken to 3 percent from 2.75 percent, it said.  “Australia’s terms of trade are likely to rise further in
the June quarter, to be above the level assumed a few months ago
-- and at their highest level in at least 140 years -- boosted
in particular by high prices for iron ore and coal,” the RBA
said, referring to a measure of income earned from exports.  Queensland Floods  Disrupting trade were floods in Queensland state in January
that Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  called the nation’s most
expensive natural disaster. Queensland produces 80 percent of
steel-making coal exports from Australia, the world’s biggest
supplier, and grows more than 30 percent of the country’s fruit
and vegetables.  An area the size of  Egypt  was declared a disaster zone,
including parts of the state capital, Brisbane, and helped push
Australia’s trade balance into deficit in February for the first
time in almost a year.  Expanding resource projects helped Australia post record
employment growth last year before hiring cooled in the first
four months of the year. Still, the number of unemployed
Australians in April fell to the lowest level since January
2009.  “Most leading indicators point to further growth in
employment over the months ahead, although at a slower pace than
in 2010,” the Reserve Bank said May 6. It also predicted the
jobless rate would fall to 4.25 percent by December 2013.  Wage Claims  Lower unemployment has prompted workers to seek higher
wages. The Community and Public Sector Union is threatening
industrial action including a strike starting July 1 as it seeks
annual pay rises of 4 percent. Union workers from BHP to Qantas
Airways Ltd., Australia’s biggest airline, are also considering
industrial action.  The Australian dollar’s strength is driving consumers to
purchase cheaper goods over the Internet, hurting domestic
retailers, Patrick Elliott, chairman of  JB Hi-Fi Ltd. (JBH)  said April
3. The advance in the household savings rate, which reached 9.7
percent at the end of last year from 1.5 percent three years
earlier, is further crimping profits.  Further weighing on consumers, the government said this
month it will end 23 years of spending growth to help ease
inflation pressure and support the return to a  budget surplus .
Gillard’s administration is trying to ease the need for higher
borrowing costs for consumers and businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Petrie in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  