-- 
Australian Stocks May Decline as Commodities Retreat Ahead of Jobs Report

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-05-30T23:46:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/australian-stocks-may-decline-as-commodities-retreat-ahead-of-jobs-report.html
Australian stocks may decline after
commodity prices fell ahead of reports this week that may show
the  U.S. economy  is slowing.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company, and
Rio Tinto Group, the second-largest, may retreat in Sydney after
copper fell for the first time in five days.  Woodside Petroleum
Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer, may drop
after crude in  New York  headed for its first monthly retreat
since August. In Tokyo, Tokyo Electric Power Co. may decline
after its corporate credit ratings were lowered to junk status
by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services  “Investors have been worried about the slowdown in
manufacturing globally,” said  Chris Weston , senior dealer at IG
Markets in Melbourne. “We’ve seen data missing expectations by
quite some way and people want to make sure their money is
safe.”  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index may fall ahead of a report
expected to show gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent in the
January-March period from the previous three months.
The Bureau of Statistics releases the report at 11:30 a.m. in
Sydney tomorrow.  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was little changed in Wellington
today. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.2
percent.  Copper, Oil  Copper for July delivery dropped as much as 1.2 percent to
$4.135 a pound on the Comex. Crude oil futures slipped as much
as 1 percent yesterday on speculation fuel demand will falter
amid a slowdown in the U.S. economic recovery and  Europe ’s
continuing debt crisis. The London Metal Exchange and U.S.
markets were closed yesterday.  Reports due this week are expected to show that job and
manufacturing growth slowed in the U.S., the world’s biggest
economy. U.S. payrolls are expected to rise by 185,000 workers
in May, following a 244,000 increase in April, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey before Labor
Department figures to be released on June 3. Another report may
show factory orders grew at the slowest pace in seven months.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 2.5 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 5.8 percent by the  S&P
500  and 1.1 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 13.4 times estimated earnings on
average, the same as for the S&P 500, and compared with 11.1
times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 