-- 
Belarus Raises Key Rate to 16%, Most in World, to Stem Outflows

-- B y   A l e x   K u d r y t s k i
-- 
2011-05-30T13:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/belarus-raises-key-rate-to-16-most-in-world-to-stem-outflows.html
Belarus raised its main interest rate
for the second time this month to the highest in the world, as
it sees to stem outflows and bolster the ruble.  The former Soviet republic’s  refinancing rate  will rise two
percentage points to 16 percent from June 1, after raising the
benchmark one point on May 18, the central bank said on its
 website  today. That’s more than the 14 percent rates for
Pakistan and  Vietnam , the second-highest of 52 central bank
benchmark rates tracked by Bloomberg.  “The decision was made considering rising consumer prices
and high inflationary expectations,” Nacionalny Bank Respubliki
Belarus said in an e-mailed statement. “Raising the refinancing
rate and the deposit interest rates is aimed at making  bank
deposits  in Belarusian rubles more profitable as well as
guarding ruble savings in banks against inflation.”  Consumer prices increased 4.5 percent last month, pushing
the total for the first four months of the year to 10.9 percent,
according to the National Statistic Committee. The Economy
Ministry forecasts 2011 inflation at as much as 39 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  in March urged the country
to curtail spending, raise interest rates and liberalize its
managed exchange-rate system as foreign reserves slid to a 1 1/2
year low and the current-account deficit ballooned to 16 percent
of gross domestic product. The ruble plunged about 40 percent
last month when trading restrictions on the inter-bank market
were lifted April 19, spurring President Aleksandr Lukashenko to
claim the currency crisis was aimed at destabilizing his regime.  The ruble rate was set at 4,932 to the dollar and is set to
weaken to 4,977 tomorrow, according to the central bank’s
website. The regulator devalued the managed currency by 36
percent against the greenback on May 24 as demand for dollars
and euros from importers and households threatened to derail the
economy. The current-account deficit equals 16 percent of gross
domestic product.  Belarus’s 2015 dollar bonds fell, pushing the yield down
six basis points to 11.891 percent, the highest level in almost
two months. The yields have increased 370 basis points, or 3.7
percentage points, so far this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Jordan in  London  at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kudrytski in Minsk, via the Moscow newsroom on 
.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  