-- 
Berlusconi’s Grip on Power Shaken After Hometown Milan Falls to Opposition

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-05-31T08:53:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/berlusconi-s-grip-on-power-shaken-after-hometown-milan-falls-to-opposition.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s grip on power was shaken after his bloc lost
mayoral races in his hometown of Milan and Naples, a blow to his
coalition that may raise the chance of early national elections.  In a defeat for Berlusconi’s  Northern League  ruling ally,
the center-left opposition’s candidates also won runoff votes in
the northern cities of Mantua, Trieste, Gallarate and Novara, as
well as Cagliari, the capital of Sardinia. “A wind of change
has blown in from the north,” Pierluigi Bersani, head of the
main opposition  Democratic Party , said on state-run RAI
television.  Milan Mayor Letizia Moratti, Berlusconi’s candidate, lost a
runoff vote yesterday to Giuliano Pisapia by 44.9 percent to
55.1 percent, according to the Interior Ministry’s website. The
opposition’s Luigi De Magistris beat Berlusconi-backed Gianni Lettieri in the Naples election by 65.3 percent to 34.7 percent.  As Berlusconi, 74, grapples with the fallout from
corruption charges and allegations he paid for sex with a minor,
the outcome was viewed as a bellwether of his support nationally
at a time when Italy’s economic recovery is trailing the rest of
the euro region. The premier had staked his personal reputation
on the Milan race, putting himself at the head of his party’s
ticket in the first round to bolster support for Moratti.  “Berlusconi represents a charismatic figure who was able
to mobilize a groundswell in support of his candidacy, his
policies and his view of the world,” said Robert Leonardi, a
senior lecturer in European politics at the  London School  of
Economics. The election defeat “is a blow to Berlusconi’s
movement, that is, his role as a leader with a new vision” and
“has a tremendous impact on his standing in the country.”  Northern League  The two-day vote, which ended yesterday, came after
Berlusconi suffered a setback in local polls on May 15-16, when
the opposition triumphed in the first round in Turin and Bologna
amid lackluster results by the anti-immigrant Northern League,
the coalition partner that sustains Berlusconi’s majority in
parliament. League leader  Umberto Bossi  told supporters
afterward that the premier Berlusconi is costing his party
votes.  Mediaset  “The survival of the Berlusconi government looks
increasingly difficult,”  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co., said in a note today. He cut the price
estimate for  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the broadcaster controlled by
Berlusconi, to 3.5 euros from 4.5 euros. Mediaset shares fell as
much as 0.9 percent to 3.64 euros in Milan trading, trailing a
1.6 percent gain of the FTSE MIB benchmark index.  “A change in government could be highly damaging for
Mediaset investors,” Aspesi said.  Yesterday’s defeat for the ruling coalition, whose mandate
ends in 2013, “was a vote against Berlusconi,” Matteo Salvini,
a League lawmaker, was quoted as saying by Ansa newswire. While
the League “did all it could to talk about concrete problems,
the voters are sovereign and we take note,” he said.  Berlusconi had stepped up his campaign efforts over the
last two weeks, saying that Milan would become a “Zingaropoli”
-- or Gypsy town -- if Pisapia won. Moratti’s rival would allow
the construction of a huge mosque to accommodate Muslim
immigrants while turning Milan into a “Stalingrad” hotbed for
communists, the premier also said.  Next Test  Italy will hold a nationwide referendum on June 12-13 on
privatizing water distribution, returning to nuclear power and
whether the premier should enjoy immunity from prosecution while
in office. The Constitutional Court already partly shot down the
immunity law in January, paving the way for the resumption of
four trials against Berlusconi.  Should 50 percent of eligible voters turn out to make the
referendum’s results binding, “then it will be another nail in
Berlusconi’s coffin and Bossi will be very tempted to pull the
plug on the government,”  James Walston , who teaches politics at
the American University of Rome, said in a note yesterday.  Berlusconi’s popularity has been hurt by allegations that
he paid an underage nightclub dancer for sex. He also faces
bribery, fraud and tax-evasion charges in three other trials
related to his management of broadcaster Mediaset SpA before he
entered politics. The sluggish economy may also be costing him
votes, as it expanded only 0.1 percent in the first quarter
compared with 0.8 percent in the euro region.  ‘Lost Decade’  Italy “has just experienced its own lost decade” with
weak competitiveness and lack of growth, Emma Marcegaglia, the
head of the country’s main employer’s lobby, said on May 26. A
Milan vote defeat should spur the government to “focus on a
sole priority: growth” and “cutting red tape, liberalizing,
infrastructure, and  tax reform ,” she said.  Italy’s Treasury said on May 21 that it will ‘intensify”
structural changes to the economy and push ahead with measures
to balance the budget by 2014 after  Standard & Poor’s  said its
debt rating is at risk of a downgrade. S&P cited the country’s
slowing economic growth, “diminished” prospects for cutting
government debt and added that “potential political gridlock
could contribute to fiscal slippage.”  The government said on April 13 that it will carry out
deficit cuts between 2013 and 2014 equal to 2.3 percent of gross
domestic product, or about 40 billion euros ($57 billion). The
extra yield investors demand to hold Italian 10-year bonds
instead of German bunds increased eight basis points yesterday
to 183 basis points.  “For Berlusconi’s leadership this is an unprecedented
blow,” Paolo Segatti, a politics professor at the University of
Milan, said by telephone. “With many members of the majority
willing to distance themselves from Berlusconi, it’s hard to
imagine that the coalition can pass budget cuts of the size
required in other countries, let alone key reforms such of the
tax system which is even harder.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 