-- 
Bovespa Stock Index Falls, Adding to Monthly Decline, as Commodities Drop

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-05-30T20:29:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/bovespa-index-futures-fall-as-commodities-prices-drop-hurting-producers.html
The Bovespa stock index fell, adding
to its third monthly decline this year, as commodities dropped
and a report showed lending in  Brazil  expanded in April,
spurring speculation that policy makers haven’t done enough to
curb inflation.  Tam SA dropped after Bank of America Corp. said in a
research note that the shares may decline 40 percent should its
planned acquisition by Lan Airlines not be approved by Chilean
antitrust authorities. Petroleo Brasileiro SA and Vale SA
followed crude and metal prices lower.  The Bovespa index fell 0.5 percent to 63,953.93 at the
close of Sao Paulo trading at 4:15 p.m.  New York  time. It
dropped 3.3 percent this month. Fifty-four stocks declined on
the index, while 11 advanced. The real strengthened 0.3 percent
at 1.5893 per  U.S. dollar .  “I don’t see the stock market performing better until
there are signs the central bank is winning its battle against
inflation,” said Richard Wahba, an analyst at Fator Corretora
in Sao Paulo.  The pace of lending in Brazil accelerated in April even as
the central bank increased  interest rates  and the government
doubled a tax on  consumer credit . Bank lending expanded 1.3
percent in April from March, the central bank said in Brasilia.
Total outstanding credit rose 21 percent from a year ago to
1.776 trillion reais from a revised 1.753 trillion reais in
March.  Consumer prices will rise 6.23 percent this year, from a
forecast of 6.27 percent a week earlier, according to the median
estimate in a May 27 central bank survey of about 100 economists
published today. The central bank targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  ‘Gradual Process’  “We continue to see credit deceleration as a gradual
process, so inflation should remain at high levels still for a
while,” Denis Blum, an economist at Bradesco Corretora, said in
a note to clients today.  Consumer, construction and wholesale prices, as measured by
the IGP-M  price index , rose 0.43 percent in May, down from a
0.45 percent increase in January, the Rio de Janeiro-based
Getulio Vargas foundation said today. The figure trailed the
median 0.6 percent rise forecast by 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “It was a relief, but provoked just by wholesale prices,”
 Solange Srour , chief economist at BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos
in  Rio de Janeiro , said in a telephone interview.  Copper, Oil  Copper fell in New York for the first time in five days.
Oil headed for its first monthly decline since August on
speculation fuel demand may falter amid a slowdown in the U.S.
economic recovery and  Europe ’s continuing debt crisis.  Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is known, slid 0.9
percent to 24.08 reais. Vale fell 0.4 percent to 44.79 reais.  Tam dropped 0.4 percent to 34.51 reais. Bank of America’s
analysts Sara Delfim and Renato Mimica said in a note to clients
that while it’s “unlikely” the merger with Lan won’t go
through, the uncertainty about the deal is a risk for the
share’s performance in the short run.  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA gained 3.2 percent to
20.14 reais. Lan may seek a deal with Gol should its takeover of
Tam SA fail, Santiago-based newspaper El Mercurio reported,
citing an interview with Ignacio Cueto, the Chilean airline’s
chief executive officer.  Investors poured 1.79 billion reais into  Latin America ’s
biggest equity market in the month through May 25, after pulling
4.07 billion reais from February through April, data from the
 Sao Paulo  exchange show.  The Bovespa tumbled 12 percent from a November high through
last week on concern accelerating inflation will hurt economic
growth. The index trades at 10.3 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, the lowest since March 2009, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 12.5 for the
Shanghai Composite Index, 6.7 for  Russia ’s Micex and 14.6 for
 India ’s Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  