-- 
Brazil’s Petros Pension Fund Dumping Government Bonds as Local Yields Drop

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-05-30T17:19:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/brazil-s-petros-dumping-government-bonds-as-yields-decline-1-.html
Fundacao Petrobras de Seguridade
Social,  Brazil ’s second-biggest pension fund, is selling
 government bonds  and moving money into real estate and private
credit as benchmark yields fall, investment director Carlos
Fernando Costa said.  The yield on Brazil’s local fixed-rate bonds due in 2021
has fallen 46 basis points, or 0.46 percentage point, to 12.51
percent since the end of the first quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Expectations that yields will fall
further is also pushing the fund to buy local corporate bonds
and asset-backed securities, as well as stakes in publicly
traded companies large enough to ensure a board seat, Costa said
in a May 27 interview at his office in  Rio de Janeiro .  “We have to look for other assets with higher returns,”
said Costa, who oversees 55.6 billion reais ($34.8 billion) in
funds for employees of state-controlled oil producer  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)  “It’s a shift that will continue.”  Brazilian bond yields are falling on expectations that a
surge in inflation will begin to fade while the economic
expansion fuels demand for the nation’s real estate. Petros is
buying warehouses to lease to retailers as logistical
bottlenecks lead demand to outpace supply, Costa said.  “Companies don’t have space,” he said. “They don’t want
to be the owners of it because it’s not their business. There’s
very large demand for this.”  Government Bonds Reduced  Costa declined to give figures on the breakdown of Petros
holdings. He said at an April 5 event in Sao Paulo that Petros
had reduced its holdings of public debt to about 45 percent from
70 percent last year.  The fund in January said it bought 4.88 percent of  Itausa -
Investimentos Itau SA (ITSA4) , the parent company of Brazil’s biggest
bank, for 3.1 billion reais. Not including such purchases,
Petros is maintaining its equity holdings because the jump in
inflation limits potential stock market gains this year,
Costa said. Annual inflation was 6.51 percent in the 12 months
through mid-May, the fastest pace since 2005.  Petros may seek to make private-equity investments in
health, education and technology companies, which will benefit
from Brazil’s rising wages and falling unemployment, Costa said.
Brazil’s jobless rate fell in April to the lowest level on
record for the month, the national statistics agency said last
week.  “Our whole strategy is based on a conviction in the
improvement of the quality of life of the Brazilian citizen,”
Costa said.  Brazil’s largest pension fund is Caixa de Previdencia dos
Funcionarios do Banco do Brasil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  