-- 
Brazil Bank Lending Quickened in April Even as Consumer Credit Tax Doubled

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-05-30T16:23:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/brazil-bank-lending-rises-1-3-in-april-from-march.html
The pace of lending in  Brazil 
accelerated in April even after the central bank increased
 interest rates  and the government doubled a tax on consumer
credit.  Brazilian bank lending expanded 1.3 percent in April from
March, after a 1.1 percent increase in March, the central bank
said today in a report distributed in Brasilia. Total
outstanding credit rose 21 percent from a year ago to 1.776
trillion reais ($1.1 trillion) from a revised 1.753 trillion
reais in March. Default rates also rose.  Brazil has been adopting measures to slow consumer credit
growth since December, as it seeks to tame inflation and prevent
instability in the banking system.  Latin America ’s biggest
economy expanded 7.5 percent last year, the fastest growth in
more than two decades, fueled by  consumer spending  supported by
credit expansion and record low unemployment.  “Growth in credit is in line with what the central bank
wants,” Alfredo Setubal, director for  investor relations  at
Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Latin America’s biggest bank by market
value, said in an interview in  Rio de Janeiro  today. “A
deceleration is taking place that’s very visible in some areas,
like vehicle loans.”  Rates Rising  The average interest rate charged on loans rose for a fifth
straight month in April, to 39.8 percent, as policy makers
increased the overnight Selic rate by 25 basis points to 12
percent.  The average interest rate on consumer loans rose to 46.8
percent, from 45 percent in March, the bank said. The rate
increased a further 0.9 percentage point, to 47.7 percent, in
the first 13 days of May, Tulio Maciel, head of the central
bank’s economic research department, told reporters in Brasilia.  Brazil’s measures to slow credit expansion and a slower
economic expansion helped reduce loan growth to a “moderate”
pace in April, Maciel said.  While credit growth has cooled from the “excesses” seen
in the second half of 2010, it may not be slowing enough for the
central bank to hit its informal target of 15 percent loan
growth this year, said  Zeina Latif , a senior economist with RBS
Securities Inc. in  Sao Paulo .  Defaults Rise  Growth in mortgage lending once again outpaced all other
credit segments, jumping 49.6 percent from a year ago and 3.2
percent on the month. The total loan default rate rose to 4.9
percent, from 4.7 percent in March. Defaults on consumer loans
increased for a third straight month, reaching 6.1 percent,
their highest level since August.  Credit card use among low-income Brazilians is likely to
increase in coming years, and policy makers need to monitor the
industry so that the growth is “healthy,” central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said May 24.  Brazil raised reserve and capital requirements on some
loans in December and doubled to 3 percent a tax on  consumer
credit  in April to curb loan growth. The levy can be repealed
when credit growth slows to an “adequate” level of 12 percent
to 15 percent a year, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has said.  Setubal said he expects lending this year to increase
closer to the lower end of a range between 16 percent and 20
percent. Tombini told lawmakers March 22 that consumer credit
growth above 15 percent needs to be monitored closely.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell one basis
points, or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.53 percent at 11:46 a.m.
New York time. The real weakened 0.3 percent to 1.5987 per  U.S.
dollar .  Inflation ‘Difficult’  Annual inflation was 6.51 percent through mid-May, above
the upper limit of the target range for the first time since
2005. Brazil targets an annual inflation rate of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  Even though inflation will slow in the coming months, it
will be “very difficult” for the central bank to hit its
target next year, Setubal said.  “The economy isn’t going to slow so rapidly, unless
there’s a surprise, which shouldn’t happen,” he said.  The central bank, after increasing the Selic by half a
percentage point in January and March, slowed the pace of rate
increases at its April meeting. Policy makers, in the minutes to
their meeting, said they would keep raising borrowing costs for
a “sufficiently long” period to bring inflation back to its
target in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  