-- 
Burkina Faso Cotton Farmers Refuse to Plant Seeds Over Price

-- B y   S i m o n   G o n g o
-- 
2011-05-30T18:16:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/burkina-faso-cotton-farmers-refuse-to-plant-seeds-over-price-fertilizer.html
About 8,000 cotton farmers in Burkina
Faso,  Africa ’s largest producer of the fiber, are refusing to
plant the crop for the 2011-12 harvest after their demands for a
higher price weren’t met, according to a regional growers’
union.  The farmers come from the country’s west and normally sell
their cotton to  Societe Burkinabe des Fibres Textiles , known as
Sofitex, said Abou Ouattara, president of the Houet provincial
growers’ union that represents 13 provinces in the West African
nation, by phone from Bobo Dioulasso, the second-biggest city,
today.  Farmers staged protests earlier this month to demand
payment of 255  CFA francs  ($0.55) per kilogram (2.2 pounds) of
cotton, more than the 245 francs set by Sofitex and the
country’s two other cotton companies on April 26, Nouhanga
Bonzi, a spokesman for the demonstrators, said May 23. They also
called for fertilizer costs to be cut to 13,200 francs per 50-
kilogram bag, from the current price of about 16,000 francs.  The government and cotton growers couldn’t afford to meet
the demands, said Prime Minister Luc Adolphe Tiao in a statement
on state-owned television yesterday.  “We will carefully study their complaints to bring concrete
answers next season,” he said.  Sofitex, which is  Burkina Faso ’s biggest cotton company,
will “wait and see” how many farmers heed the call to boycott
seeding for the harvest, said Helene Traore, a spokeswoman.  Burkina Faso plants its cotton seeds from June to mid-July
and reaps the fiber between October and April. The industry
employs 17 percent of the country’s population of 16.3 million,
 according  to the U.S. State Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Gongo in Ouagadougou via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 