-- 
Dutch Cable IPO Candidate Ziggo Plans Mobile-Phone Service to Squeeze KPN

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-05-31T07:49:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/cable-ipo-candidate-ziggo-plans-wireless-service-to-squeeze-kpn.html
Ziggo BV, the Dutch cable company
seeking as much as 1.5 billion euros ($2.1 billion) in a share
sale, is working on a mobile-phone service that may stoke a
price war in one of  Europe ’s most competitive markets.  The company must start offering customers before January
2012 the 100,000 mobile-phone numbers it received from the  Opta 
regulator this year,  Harriet Garvelink , a spokeswoman for the
agency, said in an interview. Ziggo may begin service by leasing
network capacity from another operator such as Royal KPN NV,
said Wolfgang Specht, an analyst at WestLB AG.  “Building a network on their own requires time and large
investments,” said Specht, who has an “add” rating on KPN
shares and “reduce” on  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)  “To enter this
game it is quite difficult.”  As demand for high-definition content and broadband
Internet soars, cable companies are stepping up combined offers
of television, Internet and phone services to increase revenue
from each customer. Ziggo’s planned entry into the wireless
market would add pressure to leader KPN, which in April cut its
profit forecast and announced as many as 5,000 job cuts.  Utrecht-based Ziggo, owned by buyout firms Cinven Ltd. and
 Warburg Pincus  LLC, has a venture with  UPC Nederland , a unit of
John Malone’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  The Ziggo 4 venture last year
obtained space on the 2.6 gigahertz radio frequency for mobile
broadband applications.  “If we’re going to enter the mobile market, it would be
step by step,” said Martijn Jonker, a Ziggo spokesman. Ziggo
will give more details on its wireless plan this year, he said.  KPN rose 0.5 percent to 10.17 euros as of 09.45 a.m. in
Amsterdam trading. The stock has dropped 6.9 percent this year.  Shrinking Market  Mobile-phone revenues in the Netherlands may drop as much
as 3 percent this year to 6 billion euros as consumers spend
less on  text messages  and voice calls, according to researcher
TelecomPaper. At the end of 2010, the country had 20.6 million
connections, Opta says. In addition to network operators KPN,
Vodafone and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile, there are also
service providers such as  Sweden ’s  Tele2 AB (TEL2B)  using the three
operators’ networks.  The Dutch government has said that it expects Ziggo to take
part in an auction of the 800 megahertz frequency band which may
take place next year.  Dutch wireless companies also face regulatory hurdles. The
government said it is working on a plan to prevent phone
companies from charging clients extra for using applications
such as Skype that allow making free calls over the Web.  Com Hem, Kabel BW  Cinven and Warburg Pincus may sell 25 percent to 50 percent
of Ziggo in a share sale, two people with knowledge of the
matter said last month. Ziggo had revenue of 1.38 billion euros
in 2010 and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 783.4 million euros. Net debt stood at 3.4
billion euros at the end of the first quarter.  Com Hem, the Swedish cable company owned by  Carlyle Group 
and  Providence Equity Partners , has also been put up for sale,
with Blackstone Group,  CVC Capital Partners  and BC Partners Ltd.
among potential bidders, people familiar with the matter said
this month.  Liberty Global agreed in March to acquire  Germany ’s Kabel
Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH for about 3.16 billion euros.  Eelco Blok, KPN’s CEO, said on May 10 that he aims to
defend the Dutch company’s market share even if a fourth player
enters the mobile-phone market. KPN is targeting more than 45
percent of Dutch wireless service revenue in 2015, compared with
about 47 percent now.  Ziggo has 1.5 million broadband customers, 1.8 million
digital television clients and 1.2 million telephone
subscribers. Warburg Pincus and Cinven formed the company after
acquiring cable companies Multikabel, Essent Kabel and Casema in
2005 and 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  