-- 
Canadian Economic Growth Quickens as Businesses Take Over From Households

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-05-30T17:12:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/canada-s-first-quarter-gdp-expands-at-3-9-pace-fastest-growth-in-a-year.html
Canada ’s first-quarter economic
growth accelerated to the fastest pace in a year, as outlays by
businesses increased while consumer and government spending
stalled.  Gross domestic product in the world’s 11th-largest economy
expanded at a 3.9 percent annualized pace from January through
March after a previous 3.1 percent expansion, Statistics Canada
said today in Ottawa. Economists predicted a 4 percent gain,
according to the median of 28 estimates gathered by Bloomberg
News.  The Canadian dollar and bond yields fell as the report
reinforced investor bets that Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will keep his policy interest rate unchanged at 1 percent
tomorrow. The central bank predicts growth will slow to a 2
percent pace in the April-June quarter, and exports are
threatened by a strong dollar and auto production curbed by
 Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami.  “The guts of the report were a bit on the weak side,”
said  Michael Gregory , senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto, citing government and  consumer spending . “We will be
hard-pressed to eke out half of this pace in the second
quarter.”  Dollar Weakens  The Canadian dollar traded for 97.65 cents per U.S. dollar
at 12:57 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 97.61 on May 27. It
touched 98.16 cents on May 25 and May 26, the weakest since
March 28. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0241. The yield on the
five-year government bond touched 2.30 percent, the lowest since
November.  On a monthly basis, gross domestic product rose 0.3 percent
in March, faster than the 0.2 percent economists forecast based
on the median of 24 responses in a Bloomberg survey. The
increase was led by a 1.8 percent gain in manufacturing.  Canada’s first-quarter growth rate compares with 1.8
percent in the U.S., the country’s largest trading partner.
Faster Canadian growth also came as the country’s currency
traded above parity with the  U.S. dollar  for most of the three-
month period. Canada’s dollar rallied to 94.46 cents on April
29, the strongest since November 2007.  “We just have to continue to expect that we’re going to
have modest, moderate growth during the year and going into next
year,” Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told reporters in Toronto
today. “The worries that we have are not so much within Canada
as they are outside the country.”  Inventory Investment  Business investment in plant and equipment rose 3.2 percent
during the quarter, the fifth straight increase. Carney has said
companies will lead the recovery by investing more to regain
competitiveness after years of poor productivity growth.  United Technologies Corp.’s Pratt & Whitney Canada unit
opened a C$360 million ($368 million) jet assembly and test
facility in Montreal this month, in part to fill orders from
Bombardier Inc.  Inventories rose by C$10.5 billion in the first quarter,
compared with a C$185 million gain in the previous three months.  Output rose in every major industry except for retail and
entertainment in the first quarter, led by a 2 percent increase
in manufacturing,  Statistics Canada  said today. Finance,
insurance, real estate and renting increased 0.9 percent.  Consumer spending was flat in the first quarter, the worst
showing in two years, after a 1.1 percent gain at the end of
last year, Statistics Canada said today.  ‘Conservative’ Consumers  Bank of Montreal’s growth in the second half of the year
will be driven by commercial banking as “the consumer is,
appropriately, becoming a little more conservative,” Chief
Executive Officer William Downe said in a May 25 telephone
interview. The Toronto-based company said second-quarter profit
rose 7.5 percent to a record after it set aside less money for
bad loans.  Leon’s Furniture Ltd. said May 19 that first-quarter net
income fell 12.5 percent to 14 cents a share because of “a
difficult economy, decreasing new housing starts and record
consumer debt.”  Government spending  was also little changed from January
through March following a 0.7 percent fourth-quarter increase.
Prime Minister Stephen Harper is switching from a two-year
stimulus program to spending restraint following his May 2 re-
election with a majority government as he seeks to eliminate a
record deficit.  Trade was a net drag on the economy from January to March
as imports of goods and services rose faster than exports.
Imports gained 2.2 percent in the first quarter, after a prior
decline of 0.1 percent. Exports, which equaled 32 percent of
Canada’s economy in 2010, climbed 1.6 percent following a 2.1
percent gain in the fourth quarter.  Canada also said today that its first-quarter current
account deficit narrowed to C$8.92 billion from a revised C$10.3
billion shortfall, as exports of crude oil set a record.
Economists predicted a C$7.2 billion deficit in the measure of
trade in goods, investment and services. The shortfall was a
record C$17.9 billion in the third quarter of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 