-- 
Canada First Quarter Current Account Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-05-30T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/canada-first-quarter-current-account-report-text-.html
Following is the text of
Canada's current account report for the first 
quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  Canada's current account deficit (on a seasonally
adjusted basis) with the rest of the world declined for
the second consecutive quarter to reach $8.9 billion in
the first quarter, led by a larger goods surplus. The $1.4
billion decline in the current account deficit was largely
attributable to strong export volumes of energy products.  In the capital and financial account (unadjusted for
seasonal variation), the purchase of Canadian securities
by foreign investors slowed in the quarter, but continued
to account for most of the inflows to Canada. These
purchases, almost equally split between Canadian bonds and
stocks, were the lowest recorded in a year.  Current account  Goods surplus expands further, reflecting strong exports
to the US  The overall surplus on the trade in goods widened in
the first quarter to $1.7 billion, up $1.3 billion from
the previous quarter. Trade with the US accounted for all
of the gains, as the goods deficit with other countries
increased in the quarter. The goods surplus with the US
expanded to its highest level since the third quarter of
2008, notably on much higher exports of energy products.  Exports of goods advanced $4.8 billion in the first
quarter, led by energy products. Exports of crude
petroleum were up $3.6 billion, with two-thirds of the
increase attributable to record volumes. Automobiles were
up $0.8 billion, offsetting the decline in the previous
quarter. Industrial goods continued to rise, but at slower
pace than that of the fourth quarter, which had been
strong. Reduced exports of machinery and equipment (-$1.0
billion) as well as agricultural and fish products
dampened the growth in the exports of goods.  Imports of goods increased $3.5 billion in the first
quarter, following a small reduction in the previous
quarter. Automotive products rebounded $1.9 billion, as a
result of higher volumes for cars, trucks and parts.
Energy products were up $1.2 billion, mostly led by higher
crude petroleum prices. Imports of machinery and equipment
were largely unchanged, as lower prices were offset by
stronger volumes.  Services deficit widens, led by travel  The deficit on trade in services was up $0.2 billion in
the first quarter, largely on Canadian travel to the
 United States . Increased numbers of Canadians crossed the
border, with the Canadian dollar above parity with the
American dollar, such that travel payments to the United
States rose to $5.0 billion. Conversely, fewer Americans
visited Canada and receipts from US travellers fell to
their lowest level in 14 years. Receipts from overseas
were also down in the quarter. Overall, the travel deficit
reached a high of $4.2 billion in the first quarter.  The transportation services deficit edged up,
reflecting higher volumes of imported goods. Exports of
commercial services were up slightly, further expanding
the recent modest surplus.  Deficit on investment income little changed  The investment income deficit narrowed by $0.4 billion
in the first quarter. Receipts advanced again, but at a
slower pace than in the previous quarter, while payments
were down slightly. On the receipt side, Canadian direct
investors' earnings from abroad were up slightly in the
first quarter, largely in the energy sector. Interest and
dividends received on foreign securities edged down,
extending a downward trend observed over most of the last
two years.  On the payment side, the earnings of foreign direct
investors edged up in the first quarter. The energy and
finance sectors posted marginal declines, while most other
industries recorded increases. Following six quarters of
increase, payments of interest and dividends on portfolio
investments were somewhat lower, as the Canadian dollar
rose against the US dollar. In particular, interest paid
to foreign holders of Canadian corporate and provincial
government bonds was down, as a significant part of bonds
in these two sectors are issued in US dollars.  Capital and financial account  Foreign acquisition of Canadian securities slows  Non-residents added $21.8 billion of Canadian
securities to their portfolios in the first quarter, and,
while still significant, this level of acquisition was the
lowest in a year. Foreign acquisitions over the quarter
were almost equally split between debt instruments and
equities. Foreign investment in Canadian bonds slowed to
the lowest level since the fourth quarter of 2008, while
investment in stocks continued to strengthen.  Foreign acquisitions of $11.8 billion of Canadian bonds
were equally split between government and corporate bonds
in the first quarter. Non-residents added $4.5 billion of
federal bonds to their holdings, a ninth quarter of
investment in such instruments. Foreign purchases of
Canadian corporate bonds reflected activity in mortgage-
backed securities. On a currency basis, foreign inflows in
the Canadian  bond market  were focused in Canadian dollar-
denominated instruments. By quarter-end, the Canadian
dollar had increased 2.6 cents US from December 2010.  Non-residents acquired $9.3 billion of Canadian
equities in the first quarter, largely shares from the
energy and metallic minerals sector. For the one-year
period ending March 31, 2011, non-residents added $27.9
billion of Canadian shares to their holdings. During the
same period, Canadian stock prices increased by nearly
16%, and reached levels last seen in the first half of
2008.  Canadian investors return to the US stock market  Canadian investors purchased $2.9 billion of foreign
securities in the first quarter. They resumed the pattern
of adding foreign stocks and removing foreign debt
instruments from their holdings, following a brief
reversal in the fourth quarter. Activity in foreign stock
markets was focused on US shares, with purchases of $3.8
billion of these instruments. Meanwhile, Canadians removed
non-US foreign stocks from their holdings for a second
straight quarter. US stock prices increased 5.6% in the
first quarter and reached their highest level since May
2008.  The reduction in Canadian holdings of foreign debt
instruments in the first quarter was concentrated in US
bonds, more specifically US government short-term bonds.
This was partially offset by acquisitions of non-US
foreign bonds and US corporate paper. Activity in the
maple bond market remained subdued, following three years
during which Canadians reduced their holdings of these
bonds by over $14 billion.  Foreign direct investment in  Canada  sustained  Foreign direct investment in Canada was $13.4 billion
in the first quarter, up slightly from the previous
quarter. However, in contrast to the activity in the
fourth quarter, inflows resulting from foreign takeovers
in Canada were up. The energy and metallic minerals sector
attracted over 40% of the investment during the quarter.
On a geographical basis, foreign direct investors from the
United States and some emerging economies accounted for a
large part of the activity in the first quarter.  Canadian direct investment abroad slows  Canadian direct investment abroad amounted to $13.1
billion in the first quarter, down from a high investment
of $31.1 billion in the previous quarter. Cross-border
merger and acquisition activity, although weaker than in
the fourth quarter, accounted for 40% of the outflows.
Canadian direct investors predominantly targeted the
finance and insurance and the energy and metallic minerals
sectors, largely in the United States and  Australia .  Note to readers  Annual and quarterly data have been revised for the
reference years 2008 to 2010. This is in keeping with the
general policy to revise national accounts statistics at
the time of the first quarter data release. In general,
the revisions reflect more current sources of information
coming from annual surveys and administrative data.  The balance of international payments covers all
economic transactions between Canadian residents and non-
residents in two accounts, the current account and the
capital and financial account.  The current account covers transactions in goods,
services, investment income and current transfers.  The capital and financial account mainly comprises
transactions in financial assets and liabilities.  In principle, a current account surplus/deficit
corresponds to an equivalent net outflow/inflow in the
capital and financial account. In practice, as
international transactions data are compiled from multiple
sources, this is rarely the case and gives rise to
measurement error. The statistical discrepancy is the
unobserved net inflow or outflow.  For more information about the balance of payments,
consult the "Frequently asked questions" section in the
National economic accounts module of our website. The
module also presents the most recent balance of payments
statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  