-- 
Canada First-Quarter Gross Domestic Product (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-05-30T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/canada-first-quarter-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of
Canada's National Economic and Financial Accounts for
the first quarter as released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product (GDP) advanced 1.0% in the
first quarter, following a 0.8% increase in the previous
quarter. Final domestic demand rose 0.6%. On a monthly
basis, real GDP by industry increased 0.3% in March.  Business investment in plant and equipment increased
3.2%, the fifth consecutive quarterly expansion.
Investment in machinery and equipment rose 3.7% in the
quarter. Business inventories accumulated, contributing to
the growth in overall business investment.  Exports grew 1.6% in the first quarter, following a
2.1% increase in the fourth quarter of 2010. Imports rose
2.2%, after edging down 0.1% in the previous quarter.  All major industrial sectors, except for retail trade
and arts, entertainment and recreation, increased their
output in the first quarter. Goods production rose 1.8%
while service-producing industries increased 0.7%.
Manufacturing as well as mining and oil and gas extraction
were the largest contributors to growth. Construction,
transportation and wholesale trade also recorded notable
increases.  Expressed at an annualized rate, real GDP in the first
quarter grew 3.9%, after expanding 3.1% in the fourth
quarter of 2010. By comparison, real GDP in the  United
States  grew 1.8% in the first quarter.  Business investment in plant and equipment increases  Business investment in plant and equipment rose 3.2% in
the first quarter with increases in both non-residential
structures (+2.8%) and machinery and equipment (+3.7%).
Increases in plant and equipment investment have averaged
3.8% since the first quarter of 2010.  Business investment in engineering structures, which
rose 3.7%, contributed the most to the increase in non-
residential structures, while investment in buildings grew
0.6%.  Investment in industrial machinery, up 5.8%,
contributed the most to the overall increase in machinery
and equipment.  Business inventories build up  Business inventories increased $10.7 billion in the
first quarter, after a small accumulation in the fourth
quarter of 2010. Business inventory levels have been on an
upward trend since the fourth quarter of 2009, in line
with increased sales volumes.  Durable goods held by wholesalers and retailers
accounted for most of the inventory accumulation in the
first quarter.  Farm inventories increased after three consecutive
quarterly reductions.  Imports up  Imports of goods and services increased 2.2% in the
first quarter, after declining 0.1% in the previous
quarter. Imports of automotive products, which rose 13%,
contributed the most to the overall growth in goods
imports. Imports of machinery and equipment, the second
largest contributor to first quarter growth in imports of
goods, have recorded seven consecutive quarterly
increases.  Imports of services rose 2.0%, compared with a 2.5%
growth in the previous quarter. First quarter increases
were led by transportation services (+2.8%) and travel
services (+2.1%).  Exports increase again  Exports of goods and services increased 1.6% during the
quarter, following a 2.1% rise in the fourth quarter of
2010. Exports of goods were up 2.0% while services exports
declined 1.0%. On average, exports have grown 1.8% since
the third quarter of 2009.  Exports of energy (+8.9%) and automotive products
(+6.5%) contributed the most to the gain in exports of
goods. Meanwhile, exports of machinery and equipment
declined 3.6%, following three quarters of growth.  The decline in exports of services was mainly due to
declines in transportation services (-3.9%) and travel
services (-3.0%).  Housing demand rises  Investment in housing rose 2.2% in the quarter.
Expenditure on ownership transfer costs related to housing
resale activity rose 8.0%, following a 17% gain in the
previous quarter. Renovation activity increased 3.3% after
three consecutive quarters of decline. In contrast, the
value of new housing construction fell 1.1%.  Consumer spending  remains unchanged  Consumer spending on goods and services was virtually
unchanged in the first quarter, after increasing 1.1% in
the fourth quarter of 2010. Consumers reduced their
purchases of durable (-1.4%) and non-durable goods 
(-0.4%). However, consumers increased their purchases of
services and semi-durable goods, each by 0.5%.  Expenditures on new and used motor vehicles declined
1.7%, after increasing 3.5% in the previous quarter.  Spending on furniture, furnishings and household
equipment and maintenance declined 0.6%. This is the third
decline in four quarters.  On the other hand, consumers increased their purchases
of clothing and footwear by 1.7%, more than twice the pace
of the previous quarter (+0.6%).  Incomes continue to rise  Nominal GDP continued to expand in the first quarter,
growing 2.1%, a rate similar to that of the previous
quarter (+2.2%).  Corporate profits increased 5.1%, as earnings for both
financial and non-financial enterprises continued to grow.  Labour income grew 1.6%, up from the previous quarter's
growth of 1.4%. Wages and salaries increased in both goods-
producing (+2.3%) and services industries (+1.4%).  Personal disposable income rose 0.7%, a slower rate of
growth than the 1.7% increase in the previous quarter. The
decline in government transfers to persons in the quarter
dampened disposable income growth.  The national saving rate was 6.6%, up from the fourth
quarter 2010 rate of 5.5%. The income of all levels of
government combined increased 1.5%, while government
outlays were virtually unchanged. The national saving rate
(6.6%) is now more than double the rate of 2.8% recorded
in the third quarter of 2009. Increased saving in the
corporate sector has been contributing to a higher saving
rate.  Purchasing power expands  Canada 's real gross domestic income, a measure of
purchasing power, advanced 1.5% in the first quarter.
Canada's terms of trade, which measure export prices
relative to import prices, increased 1.6%.  The price of goods and services produced in Canada rose
1.1% in the first quarter. Higher prices for crude
petroleum and petroleum and coal products were the main
contributors to the overall price increase.  The price of final domestic demand rose 0.7%. Higher
prices for motor fuels and lubricants and food and non-
alcoholic beverages contributed the most to the increased
price of final domestic demand.  Financial flows: Slowdown in financing activity  Total funds raised by domestic non-financial sectors
amounted to $226 billion (seasonally adjusted at annual
rates) in the first quarter, down from $281 billion in the
fourth quarter of 2010. Financing activity was notably
lower in both the non-financial corporations and
government sectors.  Smaller deficits for government sectors dampened the
demand for funds. Reduced borrowing by governments
resulted from net redemptions of short-term paper, which
were especially large at the federal government level.
Bond issuance was the major source of financing in the
government sector in the first quarter.  Funds raised by non-financial private corporations
amounted to $73 billion in the first quarter, down almost
30% from a strong fourth quarter. A sharp reduction in
bond issues accounted for this decline. New issues of
corporate shares provided the bulk of external financing
and supplemented increased internal sources of funds,
particularly from undistributed earnings.  Household borrowing was also lower in the first
quarter. Mortgages were up, partly reflecting housing
resale and renovation activity. Consumer credit borrowing
eased as consumer spending on durable goods softened.  The non-resident sector continued to be a net lender to
the domestic economy in the first quarter, but at a slower
pace. Foreign investment in Canadian securities continued
to account for most of the inflows from abroad, equally
split between Canadian bonds and equities.  Gross domestic product by industry, March 2011  Real gross domestic product increased 0.3% in March,
following a 0.1% decline in February. Goods production
increased 0.9% while the output of service industries was
essentially unchanged. Manufacturing and, to a much lesser
extent, construction and transportation were the main
sources of growth. Wholesale trade and utilities also
advanced. Retail trade as well as the finance and
insurance sector recorded declines. Overall, mining and
oil and gas extraction showed very little change for a
third consecutive month.  Manufacturing grew 1.8% in March, after a 1.0% decrease
in February. Durable goods manufacturing advanced 2.8%,
while the production of non-durable goods increased 0.5%.
Fabricated metal products, transportation equipment and
machinery led the increases. Manufacturing of wood
products, food, beverage and tobacco products declined.  Construction rose 0.7%, with all major components
(residential and non-residential buildings, engineering
and repair work) increasing.  Transportation rose 0.7%, primarily as a result of
gains in truck and rail transportation.  Wholesale trade grew 0.4% in March. Wholesaling of
petroleum products, motor vehicles and miscellaneous
products (which include recyclable materials) led the way.
Conversely, retail trade decreased by 1.0% as lower
activity was recorded at clothing and accessories stores,
food and beverage stores, and pharmacies.  The finance and insurance sector fell 0.9% in March.
The decrease was mostly attributable to declines in the
volume of personal loans, deposits and sales of mutual
funds; the volume of trading on the  stock exchanges  also
fell.  Overall, mining and oil and gas extraction edged up
0.1%. Support activities for mining, oil and gas
extraction were up 9.7%. Metal ore mining also advanced in
March. In contrast, oil and gas extraction declined, as a
result of lower crude petroleum production.  Note to readers  Percentage changes for expenditure-based and industry-
based statistics (such as personal expenditures,
investment, exports, imports, and output) are calculated
from volume measures that are adjusted for price
variations. Percentage changes for income-based and flow-
of-funds statistics (such as labour income, corporate
profits, mortgage borrowing, and total funds raised) are
calculated from nominal values; that is, they are not
adjusted for price variations.  There are four ways of expressing growth rates for
gross domestic product (GDP) and other time series found
in this release.  1. Unless otherwise stated, the growth rates of all
quarterly data in this release represent the percentage
change in the series from one quarter to the next, such as
from the fourth quarter of 2010 to the first quarter of
2011.  2. The quarterly growth can be expressed at an annual
rate by using a compound growth formula, similar to the
way in which a monthly interest rate can be expressed at
an annual rate. Expressing growth at an annual rate
facilitates comparisons to official GDP statistics from
the United States. Both the quarterly growth rate and the
annualized quarterly growth rate should be interpreted as
an indication of the latest trend in GDP.  3. The year-over-year growth rate is the percentage
change in GDP from a given quarter in one year to the same
quarter one year later, such as from the first quarter of
2010 to the first quarter of 2011.  4. The growth rates of all monthly data in this release
represent the percentage change in the series from one
month to the next, such as from February to March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  