-- 
McCartney’s Lamborghini for Sale; Bacon Priced $18 Million

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-05-31T11:29:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/mccartney-s-lamborghini-gt-for-sale-bacon-painting-may-fetch-18-million.html
A Lamborghini formerly owned by  Paul McCartney  may fetch as much as $200,000 as Beatles fans and car
collectors are lured by an automobile auction in the U.K.  The 400GT 2+2 is included in the annual Bonhams sale at the
Goodwood Festival of Speed in West Sussex on July 1. Dealers
said the Italian manufacturer’s cars have been selling well,
though the car’s price may be influenced by its ownership.  Exceptional sports cars are making record prices, said
dealers. McCartney was the car’s first buyer, according to books
on the Italian marque. The vehicle was originally orange, as
befitted a car made in 1967, the year of “Sergeant Pepper” and
the Summer of Love. It is formally estimated to fetch between
100,000 pounds and 120,000 pounds, entered by a Suffolk-based
collector who bought it in 1979.  “Collectors always like to buy the cars they grew up
with,” said Dietrich Hatlapa, founder of Historic Automobile
Group International (HAGI), a London-based research company.
“There’s been a generational shift and wealthy people in their
40s and 50s are now pushing up the prices of sports models from
the 1960s and 70s.”  In October, RM Auctions sold a yellow 1972 Lamborghini
Miura SV, whose first owner had been the singer Rod Stewart, for
694,400 pounds ($1.1 million) against an upper forecast of
560,000 pounds.  McCartney may not have kept the car for more than three
years, according to Stewart Skilbeck, a Bonhams motoring
specialist, though the original log book hasn’t been retained.  The four-seater 400GT was the second model created by the
Italian industrialist Ferruccio Lamborghini, who began producing
 sports cars  in competition with Ferrari in 1963.  Lamborghini Demand  Lamborghinis were in demand on May 21 when RM Auctions held
an inaugural sale at the Concorso d’Eleganza at the Villa
d’Este, Cernobbio, in the Italian Lakes.  The Italian car designer Bertone SpA entered about half a
dozen cars from its corporate collection, including the 1967
Lamborghini Marzal prototype which Prince Ranier and Princess Grace drove at the start of that year’s Monaco Grand Prix. It
sold for 1.5 million euros ($2.2 million) with fees against an
estimate of as much as 1.5 million euros at hammer prices. The
32-lot auction raised 23 million euros, with the Lamborghini
among six cars that fetched more than 1 million euros, said RM.  “Though the volume of trading is healthy, there hasn’t
been anything too dramatic in terms of individual results,”
said Hatlapa. The HAGI Top 50  index  of exceptional classic cars
increased 0.82 percent in April with Ferrari singled out as the
main gainer. The index has risen 1.1 percent since the beginning
of 2011, said the Historic Automobile Group International.  “Ferrari continues to do well,” said Hatlapa. “The car
has become the equivalent of Warhol in the art market. People
want to park their money in tangibles and they don’t want to
take any risks. They go for blue-chip names.”  Bacon Price  A 1953 painting of a suited man is the latest  Francis Bacon 
to come on the market as owners aim to capitalize on
strengthening auction prices for the U.K.’s most expensive
contemporary artist.  “Study for a Portrait,” a precursor of the Irish-born
artist’s “Pope” paintings, will be offered in Christie’s
International’s June 28 sale of contemporary works in  London 
with an estimate of 11 million pounds ($18 million). The canvas
has been on show in  Hong Kong .  “We believe it will attract significant Asian interest,”
Francis Outred, Christie’s European head of contemporary art,
said in an interview. “Chinese artists often quote Bacon as an
influence, and it’s the sort of work that appeals to collectors
who like both contemporary and more traditional art.”  Swiss Collector  The painting is being sold by an unidentified European
collector, who acquired it from the London-based dealer
Marlborough Fine Art in 1984, said Christie’s. The seller is the
Swiss entrepreneur and art collector Donald M. Hess, 75,
according to the U.K.’s Daily Telegraph newspaper.  Never offered at auction before, the Bacon was included in
a 1987 retrospective at the Galerie Beyeler in Basel. The estate
of the gallery’s founder, Ernst Beyeler, who died last year aged
88, is another Swiss seller next month at Christie’s.  Beyeler opened his gallery in 1945 and sold more than
16,000 works by some of the greatest names of 20th-century art
over a period of 65 years. He was also one of the co-founders of
 Art Basel , whose first edition was in 1970. The dealership
closed earlier this month.  Art Basel  “His influence was huge,” the London-based dealer Richard Nagy said in an interview. “Art Basel changed the landscape,
and unlike other famous dealers such as Heinz Berggruen, he was
a trader first, and a collector second. He didn’t take kindly to
people buying from other galleries.”  About 110 works from the estate of the dealer and his late
wife Hildy will be offered at Christie’s sales of Impressionist
and modern art on June 21 and June 22. All proceeds will benefit
the Fondation Beyeler, the Renzo Piano-designed museum in Basel
that opened in 1997.  Highlights will include a 1945 Alexander Calder “Wood
Stabile” that Beyeler kept on his desk, said Christie’s. This
is estimated at 350,000 pounds to 450,000 pounds, while the 1946
Pablo Picasso painting, “Buste de Francoise,” is valued at 7
million pounds to 10 million pounds. Beyeler was one of the few
individuals whom Picasso allowed to select works from his
studio, said Christie’s.  The most highly priced work in the group is a Claude Monet
“Nympheas” painting, tagged at 17 million pounds to 24 million
pounds. Another, larger “Nympheas” canvas occupies pride of
place in a gallery overlooking the pond at the front of the
Fondation Beyeler.  Paintings and drawings by  Alberto Giacometti , Paul Klee,
Fernand Leger, Henri Toulouse-Lautrec,  Paul Gauguin  and Pierre- Auguste Renoir are also included. They range in estimate from
200,000 pounds to 8.5 million pounds.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 