-- 
Children May Be Harmed by Sports Drinks, U.S. Researchers Say

-- B y   J e r a n   W i t t e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-05-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/children-may-be-harmed-by-calories-in-sports-drinks-u-s-researchers-say.html
Sports drinks aren’t necessary for
children and teenagers and are likely to contribute to obesity,
according to U.S. researchers urging parents to limit
consumption of the beverages.  While adolescent athletes engaged in vigorous physical
activity may benefit from the carbohydrates and electrolytes
provided by drinks such as PepsiCo Inc.’s Gatorade and  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO) ’s Powerade, researchers said water should be the beverage of
choice for hydration.  “For most children engaging in routine physical activity,
plain water is best,”  Holly J. Benjamin , a co-author of the
study published today in Pediatrics, the journal of the  American
Academy of Pediatrics , said in a statement. “Sports drinks
contain extra calories that children don’t need.”  Obesity in children and adolescents ages 2 to 19 rose in
the U.S. to almost 17 percent in 2007-2008 from 5 percent in
1971-1974, according to the  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention  in Atlanta. The number of all Americans who are obese
has remained constant since then, according to a January study
by the CDC. Obesity, which is a measure of body mass index,
contributes to higher risk of diabetes, heart attacks and
strokes.  Today’s study also focused on the effects of energy drinks
that contain caffeine and other stimulants. These beverages can
damage children and adolescents’ neurologic and cardiovascular
systems and shouldn’t be consumed, said Benjamin, a  University
of Chicago  associate professor of pediatrics and a physician
specializing in sports medicine, and  Marcie Beth Schneider , a
study co-author and a pediatrician in Greenwich,  Connecticut ,
specializing in adolescent medicine.  Caffeine Amounts  Some energy drinks have more than 500 milligrams of
caffeine, or the equivalent of 14 cans of soda, Schneider said
in a statement.  Rockstar , made by Las Vegas-based  Rockstar Inc. ,
has 80 mg of caffeine per 8 ounce serving, more than twice the
amount in the same-sized serving of Coca-Cola.  About 28 percent of children ages 12 to 14 regularly
consume energy drinks, according to a  study  published in the
March issue of Pediatrics.  Energy drink sales totaled $7.7 billion in 2010, an
increase of 8.9 percent from the year earlier, according to
 Beverage Digest , a compiler of data from drink makers and other
sources. About $7 billion, a 7.5 percent rise, was spent on
sports drinks, which contain carbohydrates, electrolytes and
sweeteners.  Learn Differences  The authors recommended physicians educate children and
parents on differences between sports and energy drinks and the
potential health risks.  “Some kids are drinking energy drinks -- containing large
amounts of caffeine -- when their goal is simply to rehydrate
after exercise,” Schneider said. “This means they are
ingesting large amounts of caffeine and other stimulants, which
can be dangerous.”  In 2006, Coca-Cola, based in Atlanta, PepsiCo, based in
Purchase,  New York , and other beverage companies agreed to halt
soft-drink sales in elementary and middle schools, according to
the  American Beverage Association . Sports drinks, diet soda and
flavored waters are still sold at high schools. The companies
also agreed not to sell energy drinks at schools with
kindergarten to 12th grades.  About 88 percent fewer beverage calories were shipped to
schools from 2004 to 2009, according to the Washington-based
association.  “Sports drinks have a long history of scientific research
showing their benefits for hydration,” Maureen Storey, senior
vice president of science policy for the ABA, said in an e-mail.
“As with all food and beverages, they should be consumed in
moderation.”  ‘Not Intended’  Energy drinks “are not intended for young consumers,”
Storey added.  Coca-Cola and PepsiCo referred requests for comment to the
beverage association. Rockstar didn’t respond to a request for
comment e-mailed to the company’s general information box.  “If a child or adolescent is already inactive, overweight
or obese, then the extra calories in the drink just worsen the
weight issue because they can’t burn off what they eat,”
Benjamin said in an e-mail. “For an active young child that
enjoys a Gatorade, sports drink, with sports, it’s likely not a
problem, but remember it is a choice then, it’s not needed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeran Wittenstein in  San Francisco  at 
 jwittenstei1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  