-- 
China’s Stocks Decline for Eighth Day in Longest Losing Streak Since 2008

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-30T07:49:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/china-s-stock-futures-fall-on-inflation-slowing-economic-growth-concern.html
China ’s stocks fell for an eighth
day, the longest losing streak since December 2008, on concerns
interest rates will rise, a property tax may be expanded
nationwide and power shortages will cut production capacity.  China Vanke Co., the nation’s largest publicly traded
developer, dropped to a 10-month low after the Oriental Morning
Post said the government may raise borrowing costs next month.
Sany Heavy Industry Co. slumped for a ninth day, leading
declines for industrial companies, on speculation power
shortages will cut production capacity. Industrial and
Commercial Bank China Ltd. surged 3.9 percent on the prospect
the shares are undervalued after this year’s stock market slump.  “The market is deluged with negative news,” said Tu Jun,
a strategist at  Shanghai  Securities Co. “Investors seem to have
reached consensus that stocks are heading lower while the
tightening environment continues.”  The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 3.6 points, or 0.1
percent, to 2,706.36 at the 3 p.m. close, erasing a gain of as
much as 0.7 percent and capping an eight-day, 5.8 percent
retreat. More than four stocks fell for each that rose on the
gauge today. The CSI 300 Index declined 0.3 percent to 2,954.51.  Shares traded in Shanghai are valued at 15.3 times reported
earnings, which is 9 percent lower than the average multiple
seen during the previous three “troughs” in January 1996,
November 2005 and October 2008, Credit Suisse Group AG  analysts
led by Sakthi Siva wrote in a report.  Interest Rates   The Shanghai Composite has plunged 11 percent from this
year’s high on April 18, a sign to some investors that the
market has entered a correction. The gauge has dropped 3.6
percent this year on signs growth in the world’s second-largest
economy is slowing after the central bank raised the reserve-
requirement ratio for banks 11 times and boosted interest rates
four times to cool inflation.  China Vanke fell 1.3 percent to 7.80 yuan, the lowest close
since July 21. Poly Real Estate Group Co. declined 3.3 percent
to 9.51 yuan.  China’s June consumer prices may increase about 5.7 percent
from a year earlier and interest rates will likely be raised
next month, the Oriental Morning Post reported today, citing Li Xunlei, chief economist at Guotai Junan Securities Co. A
property tax may be expanded nationwide after revising a trial
program imposed on the cities of Chongqing and Shanghai, Xinhua
News Agency reported yesterday, citing Chongqing Mayor Huang Qifan. Construction of large homes fell, and luxury home sales
and prices declined after Chongqing started the trial on Jan.
28, Xinhua cited Huang as saying.  Fund Holdings  China’s 383 mutual funds reduced their holdings of stocks
by 3.04 percentage points to 72.1 percent of their combined
portfolios last week from the previous week, the Shanghai
Securities News reported today. The mutual funds cut their
holdings on concern tighter liquidity and slowing economic
growth will hurt the market, the newspaper reported, citing a
report by Guodu Securities Co.  Sany Heavy Industry Co. fell 2.5 percent to 15.32 yuan, its
lowest close since Feb. 24. China Shipbuilding Industry Co.
slumped 3 percent to 11.03 yuan.  China’s power producers may curb operating hours to reduce
financial losses even as the nation faces an electricity
shortage that may be the worst on record.  “We expect a continuous deceleration in utilization hours
at coal-fired  power plants , worsening the power shortage,”
 Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd., wrote
in an e-mailed note on May 27. Average net profit margins in the
first quarter were “razor thin” at less than 1 percent, with
about half the plants posting losses, she said.  Coal-fired
generators produce about three-quarters of China’s power. Coal
has risen more than 30 percent since the government last
increased electricity tariffs nationwide in November 2009.  Further Tightening  Societe Generale SA is “underweight” China stocks and
expects a 10 percent “upside” over the next 12 months in the
“best-case scenario,”  Todd Martin , an Asia equity strategist
at the company, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  The bank expects two more rate increases and three more
increases in the reserve requirement “until next year,” Martin
said in the interview today. Higher borrowing costs may help
earnings of the biggest banks by boosting net interest margins.  “The big banks benefit from their defensive features and
basically the bank industry is undervalued,” Zhang Jing,
analyst at China Minzu Securities, said a in phone interview.  ICBC, the nation’s biggest bank, surged 3.9 percent to 4.56
yuan. ICBC trades at 7.9 times estimated earnings, compared with
a four-year average of 14.5, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Heilongjiang Agriculture Co. rose 2.2 percent to 14.20
yuan. A drought in China has affected 104 million mu (7 million
hectares) of farm land as of yesterday, the People’s Daily
reported today, citing data from the Office of State Flood
Control and Drought Relief Headquarters.  --Irene Shen. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 Ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  