-- 
China Shuts Most Lead-Acid Battery Producers to Curb Pollution, Poisoning

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-30T07:10:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/china-shuts-most-lead-acid-battery-producers-to-curb-pollution-poisoning.html
Battery makers in  China , the largest
lead user and producer, have shut factories in major producing
regions after the government tightened measures to curb
pollution, an industry executive said today.  Plants in Zhejiang, Guangdong, Sichuan and Henan provinces
have suspended production for about two weeks, said Xu Hong, 
head of the lead-acid battery branch at the China Electrical
Equipment Industry Association. The Ministry of Environmental
Protection  ordered  local governments on May 18 to tighten
management of battery units and recycled lead producers
following incidents of poisoning from so-called heavy metals.  The closures may damp lead demand in the world’s largest
exporter of the storage batteries used from mobile phones to
electric bicycles and cool a 36 percent rally in the prices of
the metal in the past year on the London Metal Exchange. The
battery makers including  Tianneng Power International Ltd. (819)  and
 Chaowei Power Holdings Ltd. (951)  represent about 80 percent of the
country’s total lead demand, according to the  China Nonferrous
Metals Industry Association .  “This is definitely going to curb lead demand in the next
couple of months, and we’ll need to wait till later this year to
see if demand can come back,” said Shi Lei, an analyst at Cofco
Futures Co. “Domestic lead prices will be capped in coming
months as a result of demand losses.”  Lead consumption in China may increase 8 percent this year
to 4.05 million metric tons, compared with a growth of 11
percent in 2010, Zhang Shu, a lead analyst at data provider SMM
Information & Technology Co., said at a conference on May 27.  Poisoning Incidents  China’s environmental ministry ordered tight controls of
lead-acid battery units as well as recycled lead producers after
reports of poisoning incidents in Zhejiang and Guangdong
provinces. The country will prioritize environmental checks as
part of a crackdown to curb pollution from so-called heavy
metals, the ministry said in a statement on March 29.  The legal representative of Zhejiang Haijiu Battery Co. was
detained on May 16 after more than 300 people near a plant were
found to have elevated levels of lead in their blood, the
official Xinhua news agency reported, citing a local government
spokesman. Eight officials from the local government, the
environmental protection bureau and the health bureau are being
investigated as lax supervision has also been blamed for the
poisonings, the agency reported.  Zhejiang and Guangdong provinces are the two biggest
battery-producing regions, accounting for 36 percent of the
country’s total, according to data provider SMM Information &
Technology Co.  ‘No Timetable’  “Regardless of the plants’ conditions, they’ve all been
shut down, and there is no timetable now to resume operations,”
China electrical equipment association’s Xu said.  The closures have reduced the volume of lead traded in the
cash market, according in Cofco’s Shi.  Lead traded on Changjiang Nonferrous Metals Market,
 Shanghai ’s largest spot metals market, traded at 16,359
yuan ($2,522) a ton. Lead for September delivery on the Shanghai
Futures Exchange closed the morning session 0.7 percent lower at
17,195 yuan a ton. Three-month lead traded on the London Metal
Exchange climbed 0.6 percent to $2,505 a ton on May 27.  -- Helen Sun . Editors: Thomas Kutty Abraham, Jarrett Banks  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  