-- 
China Raises Power Prices for Business, Farmers as Summer Shortage Looms

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-31T08:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/china-raises-industrial-power-prices-in-15-provinces-to-help-ease-shortage.html
China  raised electricity prices for
businesses and farmers for the first time in more than a year,
threatening to exacerbate inflation as the nation aims to curb
power shortages that may be the worst on record.  Rates for industrial, agricultural and commercial users in
15 provinces will increase starting tomorrow while those paid by
residential customers will be unchanged, said an official at the
National Development and Reform Commission, declining to be
identified because of internal rules. Malaysia said yesterday it
will raise power prices for the first time in three years.  The increase in electricity costs may complicate China’s
fight against inflation, which is above the government’s target.
The world’s biggest energy consumer may boost residential rates
in the second half, according to Citigroup Inc. Higher prices
may spur generation as pressure eases on profit margins squeezed
by rising coal costs. An electricity shortfall this summer may
be as much as 40 gigawatts, surpassing the 2004 record, State
Grid Corp. of China said.  “This will help power producers and give them more
incentive to maximize production amid the power shortage,”
Zhang Long, a utility analyst at Essence Securities Ltd., said
by telephone from Shanghai.  The country’s five largest generators are China Huaneng
Group Corp., China Datang Corp., China Power Investment Corp.,
China Guodian Corp. and China Huadian Corp.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (902) , a unit of China Huaneng,
rose 0.9 percent in Hong Kong trading to HK$4.55. Its rival
Datang International Power Generation Co. fell 0.3 percent and
Huadian Power International Corp. advanced 1.8 percent. The
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  rose 2.2 percent.  Consumer Prices  The  increase will affect the  consumer price index 
“indirectly” by 0.05 percentage point,  China Central
Television  reported yesterday, citing Liu Shujie, head of
economic research at the NDRC. Inflation was 5.3 percent in
April and has been above the government’s 2011 target of 4
percent every month this year.  Li Pumin, a spokesman at the NDRC, the top economic planner,
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  The price adjustment “should allow power producers to
increase utilization rates, boosting coal demand,” Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets wrote in a research note.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. rose 4.7 percent to HK$32.50 in
 Hong Kong  trading, the highest level since its debut in April
1998. Its bigger rival China Shenhua Energy Co. gained 3.2
percent to HK$38.65, while China Coal Energy Co. jumped 2.9
percent to HK$10.52.  15 Provinces  The government boosted electricity rates for non-
residential users by an average 16.7 yuan ($2.58) per megawatt-
hour, the official  Xinhua News Agency  said yesterday, citing the
NDRC. Power prices for industrial users are currently 470 yuan a
megawatt-hour on average, according to government data.  China will increase prices in the provinces of Shanxi,
Qinghai, Gansu, Jiangxi, Chongqing, Henan, Hubei, Sichuan,
Guizhou, Shaanxi, Shandong, Hunan, Anhui, Hebei and Hainan,
according to Xinhua. On-grid power tariffs were raised in 12
provinces by an average 20 yuan per megawatt-hour on April 10,
it reported.  The government may increase industrial rates further and
raise residential tariffs in the second half, Minggao Shen,
Citigroup’s China research head, said by telephone from Hong
Kong today. A 10 percent consumer power price rise would push
inflation up by 0.25 percentage point, he said.  At least 10 provincial grids serving municipalities
including Beijing, Tianjin,  Shanghai  and manufacturing bases in
the provinces of Hebei, Jiangsu and Zhejiang will be affected by
power shortages, the official Xinhua News Agency said on May 23,
citing Shuai Junqing, an executive vice president at State Grid.  Coal Costs  The country will also ban local governments from giving
power tariff discounts to manufacturers that consume large
amounts of energy and reinforce monitoring of coal prices to
maintain stability, according to CCTV.  Benchmark power-station coal prices at Qinhuangdao port
rose 0.6 percent to between 830 yuan and 845 yuan a metric ton
as of yesterday compared with a week earlier, according to the
China Coal Transport and Distribution Association. That’s the
highest since October 2008.  “Tariff-rate hikes are a positive for thermal-coal
producers as they would improve the profitability of their
customers, the coal-fired  power plants ,” Daiwa’s Dai said in a
report.  China’s power-generating capacity was 960 gigawatts last
year, with coal and oil-fired power plants accounting for 73
percent and hydropower dams 22 percent, the National Energy
Administration said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  