-- 
Inner Mongolia Unrest Prompts China to Change Mining Rules

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-30T11:14:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/china-to-change-mine-rules-after-mongolia-unrest.html
China ’s Inner Mongolia Autonomous
Region said it will take measures to improve the  mining industry ,
part of new rules following protests by ethnic Mongolians
sparked when a coal truck ran over a herdsman.  The official Xinhua News Agency said the regional
government will probe the industry’s impact on the environment
and the livelihoods of local residents, and improve the training
and management of mining personnel. At the same time, China is
deploying police across the province to quell protests and
information on the unrest is unavailable on news websites.  Protests erupted last week in cities including Xilinhot,
493 miles (793 kilometers) north of Beijing after the herdsman’s
death earlier this month. The U.S.-based  Southern Mongolian
Human Rights Information Center  said the herdsman, named Mergen,
was trying to stop coal-mining trucks from crossing pastureland.
The unrest by minorities in  Inner Mongolia  follows deadly riots
in western China’s Xinjiang region in 2009 and in  Tibet  in 2008.  Recent incidents “have triggered a great deal of public
anger,” Hu Chunhua, the Communist Party Secretary of Inner
Mongolia, told teachers and students in the region on May 27,
according to a May 28 report in the official Inner Mongolian
Daily. “We will firmly protect the dignity of law and the
rights of the victims and their families.”  Protests Erupt  Protests have taken place in several Inner Mongolian towns
and cities since the death and martial law was declared in
several cities, according to the Southern Mongolian Human Rights
Information Center, citing local residents.  Large numbers of police patrolled the regional capital,
Hohhot, especially around the main square where Internet
messages over the weekend urged people to protest today, the
 Associated Press  reported, citing people reached by phone.
Police blanketed Chifeng city, scene of protests yesterday,
residents reached by phone told AP.  China’s politburo, chaired by President Hu Jintao, held a
meeting today on reinforcing social management, the  Xinhua News
Agency  reported today. China is at a development stage with
prominent social conflicts, it said. Solving problems in social
management requires urgent and long-term efforts, it said.  News on the events is restricted in China. Nasdaq-listed
Sina Corp.’s microblog returns the following message when the
Chinese characters for “Inner Mongolia” are entered in a
search box: “According to relevant laws, regulations and
policies, the search results have not been displayed.” Liu Qi,
a spokesman for the Shanghai-based company, said he hadn’t heard
of the unrest and “wasn’t clear” about any restrictions.  Web Restrictions  A  report  on the local Xilingol government Web site that has
been posting information on what the Inner Mongolian official
media calls the “5.11 Incident” after the day of Mergen’s
death, is also unavailable in searches inside and outside of
China.  Ren Yaping, 58, the deputy party secretary for Inner
Mongolia and a member of the majority Han ethnic group, was
shown on a May 28 midday  broadcast  on Inner Mongolia television
visiting Mergen’s family and expressing “grief at this
unfortunate situation.” The report said the perpetrators, who
had been arrested, “would be severely punished according to
law.” He presented the family with what appeared to be a
10,000-yuan bundle of 100-yuan bills.  On the same broadcast, Guo Shuyun, the chairman of Liaoning
Chuncheng Industry & Trade Group Co., the coal company whose
truck was involved in the killing, was shown visiting Mergen’s
family, making a deep bow. At a televised press conference, he
apologized with a 90-degree bow to the audience and said his
company would respect herders’ livelihoods and protect the
environment. A person at the Fuxin, China-based company hung up
the phone when asked about the incident.  More Subsidies  The Communist Party’s official People’s Daily said the
government would increase subsidies in the region by more than
half. Hu, 48, nicknamed “Little Hu,” in reference to President
 Hu Jintao , is a  rising star  in the Communist Party and mentioned
by analysts of Chinese politics as a future top national leader.
Calls made to the Inner Mongolia government to ask about the
measures went unanswered.  Ethnic Mongolians make up less than one-fifth of the
population of Inner Mongolia, which has about 24 million people
living in an area bigger than France, Spain and  Portugal 
combined.  --Michael Forsythe. With assistance from Winnie Zhu in  Shanghai .
Editor: Ben Richardson, John Brinsley  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  