-- 
Citigroup Sees Polish May Inflation Expectations Higher at 4.4%

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-05-30T14:41:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/citigroup-sees-polish-may-inflation-expectations-higher-at-4-4-.html
Polish companies and households’
 inflation expectations  probably rose “substantially” in May,
providing more arguments for policy makers to increase the main
interest rate next week.  The central bank’s May survey on price expectations, due
tomorrow at 2 p.m. in Warsaw, will show that local companies and
households expect the inflation rate will increase to 4.4
percent within the next 12 months,  Piotr Kalisz , chief economist
at Citigroup’s Polish unit, Bank Handlowy SA, wrote in a note to
clients.  “Wages, inflation and retail sales data in May surprised
on the upside, thus justifying faster rate hikes,” Kalisz said.
“Additionally, recent weeks saw a substantial increase in the
activity of trade unions in  Poland  and we believe it makes sense
for the Monetary Policy Council to increase rates in June in
order to minimize the risk of second-round effects.”  The council raised the benchmark seven-day rate a quarter-
point to 4.25 percent on May 10, crossing the expectations of 24
of 31 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The move was made to
preempt a buildup of wage and price pressures as inflation
accelerated in April to 4.5 percent, above the central bank’s
target of 2.5 percent, for a seventh month.  April wage growth of 5.9 percent was the highest since
December in 2009 and “could be evidence that a threat of
second-round effects in the Polish economy is becoming real,”
monetary policy maker  Jerzy Hausner  told PAP newswire today.  “It’s obvious” that domestic borrowing costs will
increase, Hausner said, ruling out forecasting when the rate
should be raised noting it could be “in a month, two, or
later.”  Citigroup’s model has a standard error for the forecast at
0.2 percent, according to Kalisz, who expects a quarter-point
interest-rate increase in June.  Two-year interest-rate swaps that investors use to fix
interest costs in the future were at 5.19 percent today, down
from 5.22 percent on Friday and up from 5.14 percent on May 10,
the day before the last rate increase.  The council holds its rate meeting on June 7-8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  