-- 
Colombia May Raise Rate to 4% on Growth as Dollar Peso Purchases Continue

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-05-30T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/colombia-may-raise-rate-to-4-as-dollar-peso-purchases-continue.html
Colombia ’s central bank will likely
raise borrowing costs for a fourth month to cool inflationary
pressure as bank lending and consumer spending fuel faster-than-
expected economic growth.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
will increase the benchmark interest rate by a quarter point to
4 percent today, according to all 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  As Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. boost their forecast for growth in  South America ’s
fourth-biggest economy, pressure is building on policy makers to
keep inflation expectations anchored around their 3 percent
target. The bank today may also extend through year-end daily
dollar purchases of “at least” $20 million to stem the peso’s
five-month, 12 percent rally, said Banco de Bogota SA.  “Given the pressure on prices from the output gap’s
earlier-than-expected narrowing and strong economic growth
dynamic, the bank will raise,” said  Camilo Perez , head analyst
at Banco de Bogota, country’s second-biggest bank, in an e-mail
interview.  Policy makers last month said “extremely low” borrowing
costs over a prolonged period could generate risks to financial
stability, sustainable economic growth and future inflation.
After pausing at a record-low 3 percent for nine months, policy
makers have raised the benchmark rate by a quarter point at each
of their last three meetings.  Dollar Purchases  Analysts also expect the bank to extend its dollar-buying
program beyond June 17 in a bid to stem the peso’s rally, the
biggest in Latin America over the past five months.  Uribe, in an interview in  Rio de Janeiro  on May 27, said
he´s “very satisfied´´ with the effect of the program and that
 capital controls  aren´t needed now to ease gains by the peso.  Both Uribe and Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry have
said the costs of imposing capital controls like ones used in
Brazil right now outweigh the benefits, though conditions may
make them more appropriate in the future.  Dollar inflows from rising foreign direct investment have
contributed to the stronger peso. In the year through March, FDI
rose almost 50 percent to $3.2 billion from the same period a
year earlier, with 86 percent going into oil and mining,
according to the central bank. The government forecasts 2011 FDI
of $8 billion and $13 billion in 2014.  The currency on May 27 strengthened 1 percent, its biggest
gain in two months, to close at 1807.64 per  U.S. dollar . Its
rally in the last three months is the biggest among the seven
major currencies in Latin America.  “The persistence of the peso at around 1,800 will motivate
the bank to maintain its purchases,” Interbolsa SA, the
nation’s biggest brokerage, said in a May 25  report .  Inflation, Growth  Economists are optimistic policy makers can keep inflation
under control this year even as economic growth strengthens.
Prices are expected to rise 3.10 percent this year, according to
a  central bank survey  of 39 economists published May 11. That’s
less than the 3.31 percent forecast in an April survey and down
from 3.61 percent in February.  Expectations for consumer price increases in 2012 have also
fallen steadily since February, bolstering Uribe’s claim that
inflation will stay around 3 percent this year and next.  Annual inflation eased to 2.84 percent in April, from an
annual 3.19 percent the previous month, and up from a decade-low
of 1.84 percent a year earlier. Colombia’s real interest rate
after inflation, at 0.91 percent, is tied with  Peru ’s as the
lowest in  Latin America  among nations that target inflation.  While economic growth will likely be affected by torrential
rains and flooding over the last several months, gross domestic
product will likely expand close to 5 percent in 2011, Uribe
said.  “Activity indicators continue to show that the Colombian
economy is recovering so the bank should continue with its
policy normalization cycle,” said Munir Jalil, chief economist
at Citigroup’s Colombia unit, in a telephone interview.  Growth Forecasts  JPMorgan earlier this month raised its 2011 economic growth
forecast for Colombia to 4.9 percent, up from 4.5 percent, after
the most recent retail sales and industrial production figures
beat expectations.  Goldman Sachs this year has raised its forecast to 5.5
percent from 4.6 percent, while Morgan Stanley has raised their
forecast for growth to 4.9 percent from 4.4 percent.  Industrial output rose 5.2 percent in March from a year
earlier while retail sales jumped 14.6 percent. Exports soared
47 percent in March and imports gained 40 percent. Total gross
lending rose 21 percent to 183.6 trillion pesos ($102 billion)
in March from a year earlier, according to a report last month
by the financial regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ; 