-- 
Colombian Bond Yields Fall to One-Week Low After Rate Increase

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-05-30T19:24:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/colombian-peso-falls-most-in-two-weeks-amid-european-debt-crisis.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds rose, pushing
yields to a one-week low, after the central bank raised the
overnight lending rate to keep inflation in check.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
increased the benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage
point to 4 percent today, matching the forecasts of all 25
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Policy makers have lifted the
key rate at each of the monthly meetings since February.  “The market feels comfortable with the rate hikes as these
keep inflation expectations anchored,” said Francisco Chaves,
an analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Corredores Asociados SA.
“Bonds in the medium- and long-term part of the curve are
gaining.”  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent bonds due July 2024 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.17 percent at
3:09 p.m. New York time, according to Colombia’s stock exchange.
That’s its lowest level on a closing basis since May 19. The
security’s price rose 0.255 centavo to 114.373 centavos per
peso.  Banco de la Republica also extended a plan to purchase a
minimum of $20 million per day in the  spot market  to “at
least” Sept. 30. The program was set to expire June 17.  Colombia’s peso was little changed, trading at 1,808.25 per
 U.S. dollar  in the next-day market, according to the stock
exchange’s foreign-exchange electronic transactions system,
known as SET-FX. With U.S. markets closed today for Memorial
Day, Colombia’s currency trades in the so-called next-day
market, in which payment and delivery are made the following
trading day.  The U.S. holiday is reducing trading volume and leading to
increased volatility in the  currency market , said  Carlos Torres ,
the head analyst at brokerage Asesores en Valores SA in Bogota.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  