-- 
Colombia Raises Rate to 4% as Bank Loans, Consumption Spur Economic Growth

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-05-30T17:41:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/colombia-raises-rate-to-4-as-bank-loans-consumption-spur-economic-growth.html
Colombia ’s central bank raised its
borrowing costs for a fourth month to cool inflationary pressure
as bank lending and consumer spending fuel faster-than-expected
economic growth.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
increased the benchmark interest rate by a quarter point to 4
percent today, meeting expectations of all 25 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank also extended a plan to purchase
about $20 million per day in the foreign exchange market to “at
least” Sept. 30. The program was set to expire June 17.  “Adjustments toward a less-expansive monetary policy
should continue,” Uribe said in Bogota today. The move will
help keep inflation near the bank’s 3 percent target this year
and next, he said.  Pressure built on policy makers to keep inflation
expectations anchored around their target as economists at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. boosted their growth forecasts. The bank increased the rate
because of “the possible pressure on prices” and “strong”
economic growth, said  Camilo Perez , head analyst at Banco de
Bogota SA.  “Available indicators point toward economic growth
maintaining its dynamic,” Uribe said after announcing the rate
decision. “This is supported by strong expansion of internal
demand, consumption and investment, and also due to strong
external sales.”  Raising Rates  Policy makers last  month  said “extremely low” borrowing
costs over a prolonged period could generate risks to financial
stability, sustainable economic growth and future inflation in
 South America ’s fourth-largest economy. After pausing at a
record-low 3 percent for nine months, officials have raised the
rate by a quarter point at each of their last three meetings.  Uribe said today that the output gap is likely to close in
the second half of the year.  Speaking in  Rio de Janeiro  on May 27, Uribe said he´s
“very satisfied´´ with the effect of the country’s dollar
purchasing program and that capital controls aren’t needed now
to ease gains by the country’s currency.  Peso Gains  Colombia’s peso was little changed, trading at an average
of 1,807.57 in the next-day market at 12:20 p.m. New York time,
according to the stock exchange’s foreign-exchange electronic
transactions system, known as SET-FX. With U.S. markets closed
today for Memorial Day, Colombia’s currency market trades in the
so-called next-day market, in which payment and delivery are
made the following trading day.  Through May 27, the currency had gained 5.5 percent this
year and 20 percent over the past two years.  Both Uribe and Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry have
said the costs of imposing  capital controls  right now outweigh
the benefits.  ‘‘The persistence of the peso at around 1,800 will motivate
the bank to maintain its purchases,” Interbolsa SA, the
nation’s biggest brokerage, said in a May 25  report .  Total gross lending rose 20.5 percent to 183.6 trillion
pesos ($101.6 billion) in March from a year earlier, according
to a report last month by the financial regulator. Industrial
output rose 5.2 percent in March from a year earlier while
retail sales picked up 14.6 percent.  Capital Controls  Dollar inflows from rising foreign direct investment have
contributed to the stronger peso. Foreign direct investment rose
almost 50 percent to $3.23 billion in the year through March
from the same period a year earlier, with 86 percent going into
oil and mining, according to the central bank. The government
forecasts FDI to reach $8 billion this year and $13 billion in
2014.  Economists are optimistic policy makers can keep inflation
under control this year even as economic growth strengthens.
Prices are expected to rise 3.10 percent this year, according to
a  central bank survey  of 39 economists published May 11. That’s
less than the 3.31 percent forecast in an April survey and down
from 3.61 percent in February.  Expectations for consumer price increases in 2012 have also
fallen steadily since February, bolstering Uribe’s claim that
inflation will stay around 3 percent this year and next.  Annual inflation eased to 2.84 percent in April, from an
annual 3.19 percent the previous month, and up from a decade-low
of 1.84 percent a year earlier. Colombia’s real interest rate
after inflation, at 0.91 percent, is tied with  Peru ’s as the
lowest in  Latin America  among nations that target inflation.  GDP Growth  While economic growth will likely be affected by torrential
rains and flooding over the last several months, gross domestic
product will likely expand close to 5 percent in 2011, Uribe
said. The current benchmark lending rate will continue to
support economic growth and job creation, he said.  “Activity indicators continue to show that the Colombian
economy is recovering so the bank should continue with its
policy normalization cycle,” said Munir Jalil, chief economist
at Citigroup’s Colombia unit, in a telephone interview.  JPMorgan earlier this month raised its 2011 economic growth
forecast for Colombia to 4.9 percent, up from 4.5 percent, after
the most recent retail sales and industrial production figures
beat expectations.  Goldman Sachs this year has raised its forecast to 5.5
percent from 4.6 percent, while Morgan Stanley has raised their
forecast for growth to 4.9 percent from 4.4 percent.  Industrial output rose 5.2 percent in March from a year
earlier while retail sales jumped 14.6 percent. Exports soared
47 percent in March and imports gained 40 percent. Total gross
lending rose 21 percent to 183.6 trillion pesos ($102 billion)
in March from a year earlier, according to a report last month
by the financial regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  