-- 
Copper Miners Must Tap New Areas as Demand Soars, Cesco Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-30T05:11:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/copper-miners-need-to-expand-to-new-regions-as-demand-surges-center-says.html
The global copper-mining industry
needs to expand to new regions if producers are to bring supply
back into line with unprecedented demand, according to a mining-
studies group in  Chile , the world’s largest producer.  So far, the industry’s reaction to record prices has been
slow because of declining ore grades, the need for deeper mines
and higher costs, Juan Carlos Guajardo, executive director of
the Center for Copper & Mining Studies, said yesterday.  The global copper market faces a 377,000-metric-ton deficit
this year, according to the  International Copper Study Group , as
demand, led by China and other emerging markets, outpaces supply.
Copper futures in London surged to an all-time high in February.  “Since mining is a long-term industry, more time is needed
to reach a new equilibrium in the copper market,” said Guajardo,
speaking at a Shanghai Futures Exchange conference. By 2015, a
further 2.1 million tons of capacity is needed, he said.  Copper for delivery in three months on the  London  Metal
Exchange climbed to a record of $10,190 a ton on Feb. 15 after
gaining 30 percent last year and more than doubling in 2009. The
contract closed at $9,199 a ton on May 27, rallying 2 percent
after Chinese stockpiles dropped. The metal for July delivery on
the Comex in  New York  fell 0.8 percent to $4.1545 a pound at
12:46 p.m. Shanghai time.  Guajardo’s assessment is similar to the outlook from Rio
Tinto Group, the third-largest mining company. New supply is
particularly dependent on opening up so-called greenfield
projects and is moving to higher-risk regions, Matthew Holcz,
general manager of business development at the London-based
company’s copper unit, said in an October 2010 presentation.  China ’s Growth  Copper is used in pipes and wires. Demand has jumped as
China builds more infrastructure and emerging-market consumers
buy more appliances. Demand from China’s power industry may
expand 5 percent this year, while transport-industry use may
grow as much as 10 percent, Mark Loveitt, secretary-general of
the International Wrought Copper Council, said at the conference.  There have been “significant production disappointments”
in the global copper industry over the past five years driven by
falling ore grades, power and water shortages, strikes and
extreme weather events, UBS AG said in a report on May 18. As a
result, mining companies are targeting mergers and acquisitions
rather than developing new sites, the report said.  “Exploration is the most relevant way, but it takes time,
while the maximization of current capacity is limited,” said
the Center for Copper’s Guajardo.  Chile’s Outlook  Copper prices are expected to remain high even if  China’s
economy  slows, Chile’s President Sebastian Pinera said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television on May 25. While economic
growth in China may slow to 7 percent to 9 percent, that would
still be enough to keep commodity prices high for “a very long
period of time,” Pinera said.  “China’s emergence as a major consumer of copper, most of
which is imported, is now the major swing factor in the copper
market, as is the issue of how fast supply additions can come
into the market,” the UBS report said.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) , the biggest Kazakh copper company, said May
4 that its first-quarter production of finished copper fell from
a year earlier on lower ore grades. A day earlier,  Boliden AB (BOL) 
reported lower copper output. Codelco, the world’s biggest
producer, said May 3 output at its largest mine will drop
“strongly” during conversion into a subsurface operation.  “The market has been reminded about how tight the supply
side looks for copper,” said  Gayle Berry , an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in London. “The Q1 production results for a
number of copper miners underperformed people’s bleak
expectations. It does further illustrate how tight the raw
materials market is for copper.”  Copper in London may rise this week after the mining
companies’ comments on production, according to a Bloomberg
survey. Seven of 13 analysts, investors and traders questioned
by Bloomberg, or 54 percent, said prices will gain this week,
while three predicted a drop and three forecast little change.  -- Helen Sun . With assistance from Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in
London. Editors: Jarrett Banks,  Matthew Oakley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3029 or
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  