-- 
Copper in New York Declines for First Day in Five on U.S. Economy Slowdown

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-05-30T17:31:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/copper-in-new-york-declines-for-first-day-in-five-on-u-s-economy-slowdown.html
Copper in  New York  fell for the first
time in five days before reports this week that may show the
economy is slowing in the U.S., the world’s second-largest
consumer of the metal after China.  July delivery copper dropped as much as 1.2 percent to
$4.135 a pound on the Comex in New York and was down 0.5 percent
at $4.1635 by 1:15 p.m. local time in electronic trading. The
 London  Metal Exchange and U.S. markets are closed today for
holidays, and today’s trades will be counted in tomorrow’s
pricing.  “Global economic data haven’t been very supportive of
higher prices,” Huang Zhulin, an analyst at Goldstate Futures
Co., said from Shanghai. “The rally last week was driven by
expectations that demand will continue to pick up in  China .”  U.S. payrolls are expected to rise by 185,000 workers in
May, following a 244,000 increase in April, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey before Labor
Department figures to be released on June 3. Another report may
show factory orders grew at the slowest pace in seven months.  Consumer spending  in the U.S. rose 0.4 percent last month
as food and fuel prices increased, the Commerce Department said
May 27. The gain compared with a 0.5 percent median estimate
from economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Copper also declined as the dollar rose for the first time
in three days against the euro on concern European governments
will struggle to resolve the sovereign-debt crisis. Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  said he’ll press ahead with new
austerity measures even as he failed to win backing from
opposition parties.  Weekly Gain  Copper in London gained for a second week last week, adding
1.4 percent, on signs of stronger demand in China. Copper
premiums reached a seven-month high and stockpiles tracked by
the exchange slid to a 21-month low last week. The metal is
still 1.3 percent lower this month, set for a third monthly
drop, on concern that global growth is slowing.  “Chinese physical demand is definitely improving, judging
from the decline in exchange inventories and the increase in
premiums,” said Huang. “However, we remain cautious as the
risk of a global economic slowdown still exists.”  Global demand for refined copper may grow 8.4 percent from
2010 to 2012 compared with growth of 16.4 percent from 2005 to
2010, Mark Loveitt, secretary-general of the International
Wrought Copper Council, said at a May 29 conference in  Shanghai .  Demand from China’s power industry may grow 5 percent this
year, while building and construction industry demand may expand
7 percent and consumption by the  transportation industry  may
grow 8 percent to 10 percent, Loveitt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  