-- 
Dempsey Would Support Keeping U.S. Troops in Iraq Past Deadline If Needed

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-05-30T14:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/dempsey-would-support-keeping-u-s-troops-in-iraq-past-deadline-if-needed.html
General Martin Dempsey, President
 Barack Obama ’s choice for chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
is a former commander in Iraq who said he’s willing to keep U.S.
troops there past December to keep that country stable.  The president announced Dempsey’s nomination today in the
White House  Rose Garden , praising him for “lifetime of
accomplishment.” He cited Dempsey’s promise to the troops to
“provide whatever it takes to achieve our objectives in the
current fight.”  The nomination came just seven weeks after Dempsey became
the Chief of Staff of the Army, a post normally held for four
years. When he took that post, he told reporters he would
support keeping U.S. troops in Iraq past the end of the year,
the current departure deadline, if  Iraq ’s government agreed.  “It would certainly be in our interest to see Iraq remain
on its current path and become even more stable,” Dempsey told
reporters at a Pentagon briefing. “As a member of the national
security team, that would be my advice.”  If confirmed by the Senate, Dempsey, who has instructed
soldiers on combat and literature, will replace Navy Admiral
Michael Mullen, whose term expires Sept. 30.  Dempsey, 59, is a 1974 graduate of the U.S. Military
Academy at  West Point ,  New York . He was a classmate of General
David Petraeus, the top military commander in  Afghanistan  who’s
been picked by Obama to direct the Central Intelligence Agency.  Dempsey, an armor officer, went on to get a masters degree
in English at  Duke University  in  North Carolina , where he wrote
a paper on W.B. Yeats’s anti-violence poem “Easter, 1916.”
Dempsey later returned to West Point to teach English.  Iraq Uprising  Dempsey commanded the 1st Armored Division in  Baghdad  in
2003 and 2004, following the U.S.-led invasion that ousted
 Saddam Hussein .  Security in the country deteriorated during that time and
Dempsey’s division’s tour, originally scheduled to last 12
months, was extended three months to quell an uprising led by
the radical Shiite cleric Moqtada Al-Sadr.  Dempsey returned to Iraq in 2005 to command the Multi-
National Security Transition Command, responsible for training
and equipping Iraqi troops. From March through October 2008, he
served as acting commander of U.S. Central Command.  Prior to becoming Army chief on April 11, Dempsey led the
U.S. Army’s Training and Doctrine Command, based at Fort Monroe,
 Virginia , which oversees training of soldiers, development of
Army operations manuals, and recommends weapons development.  Faster Procurement  In testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee in
March for his confirmation as Army chief, Dempsey promised to
cut in half, to between five and seven years, acquisition times
for new weapons systems.  “Some of the programs that we aspire to fail because of
the time horizon we establish for them,” Dempsey said. “If we
try to project our needs 10 to 15 years in the future, it’s
almost certain we won’t get it right.”  Dempsey became President Obama’s top choice for the Joint
Chiefs chairman after the president passed over Marine Corps
General James Cartwright, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs.  Cartwright, once considered President Obama’s favorite
general, was the subject of an investigation made public in
March that found he failed to demonstrate leadership
responsibilities during a 2009 incident in which a female aid
was intoxicated in his hotel room.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  