-- 
Dexia May Submit Restructuring Plan As Early as May 31, EU’s Almunia Says

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-05-30T12:27:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/dexia-may-submit-restructuring-plan-as-early-as-may-31-eu-s-almunia-says.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the lender to local
governments that was rescued by France and  Belgium  in 2008, may
submit a new restructuring plan to the European Union as soon as
tomorrow after writing down the value of its U.S. asset-backed
securities, the EU’s top antitrust official said.  “Dexia received a decision last year, but now they have
announced that they will present probably tomorrow a new
restructuring plan because of the new circumstances,” EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said today in Budapest.  Dexia, the bank that took the most Federal Reserve
discount-window help in October 2008, wrote down the value of
its U.S. asset-backed securities by almost $2.31 billion by the
end of the first quarter after raising its estimate of future
losses on the underlying mortgages. It will take an additional
1.8 billion euros ($2.57 billion) to bring the valuation in line
with the securities’ market value pending a sale.  By writing down the securities to their market value, Dexia
will be in a position to waive the Belgian and French state
guarantees covering losses on those assets and renegotiate the
“terms and consequences” arising from the state support, the
bank said last week. The guarantees amounted to 3.2 billion
euros of the 8.4 billion euros in state aid Dexia received,
according to the European Commission.  Long-Term Bonds  The bank said today that it will soon give the commission,
the EU’s Brussels-based regulator, details of the measures the
company announced on May 27, which also include disposals of
long-term bonds, loans and units.  “Dexia will provide the EC with all detailed measures in
the coming days, in order to reinitiate a negotiation which
would take into consideration a positive impact on state aid,”
Ulrike Pommee, a spokeswoman for the lender, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Shares of Dexia gained 1.3 percent to 2.449 euros at 2:12
p.m. in Euronext Brussels trading, after climbing 4.8 percent on
May 27, the most since April 6. The stock is down 0.6 percent
since the start of the year.  Dexia, based both in Paris and Brussels, said on May 27
that it will take a charge of 3.6 billion euros for the
anticipated sale of mostly U.S. residential mortgage-backed
securities and other measures.  The bank agreed to shrink its balance sheet by 35 percent
to 427 billion euros by the end of 2014 to gain EU approval for
receiving 5 billion euros of capital in state aid in September
2008. The value of its combined assets amounted to 527 billion
euros at the end of March, a 40 billion-euro decrease from the
end of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  