-- 
Dexia Shares Gain After Reports Bank May Resume Paying Dividends

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-05-30T10:31:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/dexia-shares-gain-after-reports-bank-may-resume-paying-dividends.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the bank that took the most
Federal Reserve discount-window help in October 2008, rose in
Brussels trading after newspaper reports that the company may
resume dividend payments if it returns to profit in 2012.  Dexia jumped as much as 5.4 percent to 2.55 euros and was
up 1.7 percent at 2.46 euros as of 12:21 p.m. local time, for a
market value of about 4.6 billion euros ($6.6 billion).  The bank won’t pay a dividend for this year, “but in 2012,
perspectives are quite better, with sustainable results, that I
hope will allow normal dividends,” Chairman Jean-Luc Dehaene
told Belgian daily L’Echo in an interview published today. Chief
Executive Officer Pierre Mariani also said Dexia will “resume a
more normal dividend policy” if it returns to profit in 2012,
according to a separate interview with French daily  Les Echos .  Dexia will take 3.6 billion euros of provisions in the
second quarter to cover future losses on U.S. residential
mortgage-backed securities and disposals of long-term bonds,
loans and units, it said May 27. The lender, based both in Paris
and Brussels, is accelerating the reduction of its balance sheet
and cutting risks linked to the evolution of the U.S. housing
market.  The second-quarter provision will lower Dexia’s Tier 1
capital ratio, a measure of its ability to absorb losses, to
about 11 percent from 13.4 percent at the end of March, the bank
said. The lender also said it will have a Tier 1 ratio of at
least 12 percent by the end of this year.  Core Tier 1  Dexia’s core Tier 1 ratio may stand at 6 percent in 2013,
below new Basel III standards, Alex Koagne, a Paris-based
analyst at Natixis SA who recommends buying the stock, said in a
research note today. “They had to take these provisions, but
the capital level remains worrying,” Koagne said.  Ulrike Pommee, a Brussels-based spokeswoman at Dexia,
declined to comment on the bank’s core Tier 1 ratio when
contacted by telephone today.  New rules drawn up by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  and endorsed by Group of 20 leaders last year will
require lenders to more than triple the highest-quality capital
they hold to cushion against losses by 2019. The Basel III rules
will force lenders to have common equity equal to at least 7
percent of assets, weighted according to their risk, including a
2.5 percent buffer to withstand future stress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 