-- 
Doha Trade Talks Won’t Be Concluded This Year, South Africa’s Davies Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-05-30T13:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/doha-trade-talks-won-t-be-concluded-this-year-south-africa-s-davies-says.html
South Africa  won’t support a scaled-
down version of World Trade Organization talks that departs from
the developmental mandate of the Doha round of discussions,
Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies said.  The Doha round won’t be concluded this year, though most
WTO members would seek to finalize a smaller “package” of
agreements that excludes agriculture reforms, Davies told
journalists in Pretoria. Any agreement should deliver something
for the world’s poorest nations and needs to include duty-free
access to developed economies, he said.  “The bulk of the membership is not willing to declare Doha
dead,” Davies said. “The bulk of the membership would prefer
to see work continue on a plan B. We are not interested in
picking up something that is very different from the
developmental mandate.”  The Doha round of talks, which began in Doha, Qatar, in
2001, were meant to add billions of dollars to the global
economy by spurring cross-border commerce. WTO negotiators are
pursuing a deal in which rich governments including the European
Union and the U.S. would lower  farm subsidies  and tariffs in
exchange for fast-growing emerging markets such as China and
 India  opening up their economies to imports of agricultural
goods and manufactured products.  South Africa has “many alternatives” to multilateral
trade negotiations within the WTO system, Davies said. The
country’s membership of an economic bloc including  Brazil ,
 Russia , India and china, known as BRICS, created new
opportunities for multi-lateral and bilateral trade agreements.  “Our membership of BRICS gives us huge opportunities to
develop different patterns of trade relationships,” he said.
“We’ll seek to build relationships among ourselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town Nef at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  