-- 
Dropbox Partners With Softbank, Sony Ericsson for Growth in Asia, Europe

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-05-30T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/dropbox-partners-with-softbank-sony-ericsson-for-global-growth.html
Dropbox Inc., the Web storage
provider with 25 million users, signed deals with mobile carrier
 Softbank Corp. (9984)  and handset maker Sony Ericsson Mobile
Communications AB to attract more customers in  Asia  and  Europe .  The agreement means Dropbox’s file-sharing application will
be preloaded on two phones running on Softbank’s network in
 Japan  in early June, said Lars Fjeldsoe-Nielsen, head of mobile
business development at Dropbox, in an interview. Sony Ericsson
is building the app into devices that will be sold in 10
countries in Europe and Asia.  The partnerships are the first for San Francisco-based
 Dropbox , a startup whose app has surged in popularity as
consumers turn to smartphones to take pictures, create videos
and listen to music. The app lets users store and access their
content from any computer, phone or tablet with a Web
connection.  “Whenever you do anything that can be stored, consumed or
shared, we want to become part of that,” said Fjeldsoe-Nielsen,
who joined the company in January. “We’re working with the guys
who are moving the fastest.”  Terms of the partnerships aren’t being disclosed. Softbank
and Sony Ericsson will be promoting the app in stores and
commercials, while also training sales staff so they can
demonstrate it to customers.  Dropbox’s app is currently available as a free download on
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad, devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android operating system and on  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s
BlackBerry smartphones. The company expects to sign marketing
and distribution deals later this year with U.S. carriers and
manufacturers.  Freemium Pricing  Founded in 2007 by Drew Houston and Arash Ferdowsi, Dropbox
uses a tiered-pricing model, called freemium, giving away the
basic app and charging users who want more space. The free
version comes with 2 gigabytes of storage, enough for thousands
of documents or hundreds of photos. Beyond that, Dropbox sells
as much as 50 gigabytes and 100 gigabytes for $9.99 a month and
$19.99 a month, respectively.  Dropbox said last month that more than 25 million people
are using the service, a sixfold increase from January 2010. It
competes with Box.net, an Internet-storage company that raised
$48 million in February from investors including Andreessen
Horowitz. Box.net, based in  Palo Alto , California, has almost 6
million users.  With the Softbank partnership, Dropbox will come
automatically loaded on two Android phones in Japan, one with a
3-D screen manufactured by Sharp Corp. Tokyo-based Softbank,
Japan’s third-largest wireless carrier, will be promoting the
devices in about 7,000 stores in Japan.  Softbank Price Break  In addition to the two free gigabytes that come with the
app, Softbank is adding 50 percent more at no charge, the Tokyo-
based company said in an e-mail.  Sony Ericsson, the London-based mobile-phone venture of
Sony Corp. and Ericsson AB, is selling Android phones with the
Dropbox app pre-installed in countries including the U.K.,
Denmark,  Australia  and Indonesia, starting today.  Chief Executive Officer Bert Nordberg said in March that
the company is aiming to expand its global share of Android
handsets to at least 25 percent from 14 percent at the beginning
of this year.  Sony Ericsson  has similar partnerships, where it promotes
apps from Facebook Inc., Twitter Inc. and Foursquare Labs Inc.,
said Calum MacDougall, Sony Ericsson’s London-based head of Web
service partnership.  ‘Entertaining Smartphones’  “Dropbox is something that is an exciting and rapidly
growing service,” MacDougall said in an interview. “To have
the most entertaining smartphones, we need to find partner
brands that consumers are using.”  Dropbox was initially funded by  Y Combinator , the  Mountain
View , California-based startup incubator, and then raised $7.2
million from Sequoia Capital and Accel Partners. It now has
about 55 employees.  Bryan Schreier, a partner at Sequoia and Dropbox board
member, said he’s an avid user of the product in addition to
being an investor. For his kids’ birthday parties, he sets up
folders that enable everyone involved to take photos and shoot
video from their phones and upload the files immediately.  “In real time we’re building a shared photo album that
people can access on the Web anywhere,” Schreier said in an
interview from his office in  Menlo Park ,  California . “It’s an
awesome experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  