-- 
Drop in Spanish Inflation Rate in May Raise Hopes for Nation’s Economy

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-05-30T08:28:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/drop-in-spanish-inflation-rate-in-may-raises-hopes-for-economy.html
Spain’s May inflation rate was
slightly lower than a month earlier, fueling hopes that prices
will stabilize and support  consumer spending .  Consumer prices, based on European Union calculations, rose
3.4 percent from a year earlier, the  National Statistics
Institute  said today. Prices in April gained 3.5 percent, the
most since October 2008. Inflation was 3.5 percent according to
the Spanish measure of prices, the institute said.  “This is good news because a moderated inflation will help
consumer spending, at a time when the economy is relying more on
exports to grow,” said Jose Carlos Diez, chief economist at
Intermoney Valores in Madrid. Oil costs and the euro exchange
rate will determine whether prices continue to increase more
slowly in the coming months, he said.  The  European Central Bank  is “carefully” monitoring
inflation risks to avoid commodity prices affecting wage demands
and other costs, President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on May 26.
Spanish inflation has accelerated more than in the euro region
overall, spurred by a 35 percent surge in  oil prices  in the past
year, even as the economy struggles to emerge from a recession
with a 21 percent jobless rate.  Spain is more sensitive to changes in the cost of oil than
other euro-area countries because the economy is very energy-
intensive. It’s “logical” to expect the nation’s inflation
rate to fall below the regional average next year, Bank of Spain
Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said on May 23. The
government also forecasts inflation will slow starting in June
or July, Deputy Finance Minister Jose Manuel Campa said last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  