-- 
Telmex Falls Most Since 2008 After Mexican TV-License Request is Rejected

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-05-30T20:10:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/telmex-phone-carrier-will-return-to-courts-after-rejection-on-tv-license.html
Telefonos de Mexico SAB, the nation’s
largest phone carrier, fell the most since December 2008 after
the government rejected its application to start offering video
services.  Telmex, as the Mexico City-based company is known, dropped
6.4 percent to 10.18 pesos at 4 p.m. New York time. The shares
have risen 1.7 percent 2011, compared with the 7.6 percent slump
in the IPC index.  The phone carrier controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s
America Movil SAB can’t sell TV service because it hasn’t met
some conditions of its license, including efficiently providing
connections to rivals, the Communications and Transportation
Ministry  said  on May 27. The ruling followed five years of
silence from the government agency, which was forced to respond
following a court order this month.  “Telmex is going to continue with this process by
appealing, so the situation could change at any time,” said
Martin Lara, an analyst at Corp. Actinver SAB in Mexico City.
“Normally the courts take a while, so that could delay the
process.”  Javier Mondragon, the regulatory and legal affairs director
at Telmex, said the company will go back to court this week in
its push to provide television.  “Telmex has complied with all the requirements,” he said
in a telephone interview last week. “We think this decision by
the ministry isn’t supported by the law.”  The company is seeking TV service to compete with cable
carriers controlled by  Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO)  that offer packages of
phone, Web and video. Telmex has a total of 15.6 million phone
lines, though it lost 29,000 last quarter as cable providers
lured some subscribers away.  Telmex has sought to sell a TV service since companies in
the phone and cable industries signed an agreement with the
government in 2006 outlining the requirements necessary for each
to enter the other’s business. Mexico City-based Televisa has
offered phone service through its cable units since 2007 and has
more than 500,000 voice customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  