-- 
Japan’s Government Bonds Decline Most Since April on Industrial Production

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-05-31T06:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/ten-year-bonds-may-fall-on-bets-investors-to-sell-before-auction-tomorrow.html
Japan ’s 10-year government bonds fell
the most in eight weeks after a report showed  industrial
production  increased in April.  Manufacturers said they plan to boost production 8 percent
this month and 7.7 percent in June, evidence that the economic
recovery may start to take hold later in the year following the
March 11 earthquake. Bond futures slid as equities gained,
easing demand for the safety of debt. Moody’s Investors Service
today placed the Japanese government’s Aa2 local and foreign
currency bond ratings on review for possible downgrade.  “The production data was a negative surprise for bonds,”
said  Shinji Nomura , chief debt strategist in  Tokyo  at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. “Should the forecast for June prove accurate,
production would be back to the level before the earthquake.”  The yield on the 1.1 percent bond due March 2021 gained
three basis points to 1.15 percent at 3:04 p.m. in Tokyo at
Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt
broker. The price dropped 0.264 yen to 99.559 yen. It was the
biggest increase in yield since April 6.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery declined 0.28 to
140.63 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average
advanced 2 percent.  Benchmark yields reached 1.105 percent on May 16, the
lowest since Nov. 24. They have fallen five basis points this
month. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Factory Output  Japan’s government bonds have handed investors a 0.7
percent return this month, according to an index compiled by
Merrill Lynch & Co., the biggest gain since June.  Factory output gained 1 percent in April after plunging
15.5 percent in March following an unprecedented earthquake on
March 11 and a tsunami, the government reported today.  Bonds also fell on speculation investors reduced their
holdings to push up yields before the Ministry of Finance sells
2.2 trillion yen ($27 billion) of 10-year debt tomorrow.  “The upcoming auction is limiting upward momentum on bonds,
and we may be able to see a 1.2 percent coupon for the sale,”
said  Akihiko Inoue , chief market analyst in Tokyo at Mizuho
Investors Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest bank.  Primary dealers, which are required to bid at government
debt sales, often reduce holdings before auctions in case prices
decline before they can pass on the new securities to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 