-- 
Energy Companies Join Actor Blanchett in Pushing Australia on Carbon Plan

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-05-30T01:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/energy-companies-join-actor-blanchett-in-pushing-australia-on-carbon-plan.html
A group of Australian energy
companies and Oscar-winning actress  Cate Blanchett  called for
urgent action to reduce  carbon emissions  as Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  struggles to win public support for such a plan.  Fifteen companies, including  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK)  and TRUenergy
Holdings Pty, wrote to Gillard and opposition lawmakers
yesterday, asking them to expedite climate-change legislation.
The separate ad campaign, in which Blanchett asks Australians to
“say yes” to climate laws, debuted yesterday.  Laws that would set a price on carbon are “widely
recognized as the most efficient and effective way of reducing
emissions,” Matthew Warren, head of the company group known as
the Clean Energy Council, said in the e-mailed statement.  The campaigns take place as opinion polls show most voters
oppose Gillard’s plan to begin an emissions trading system from
next July. Her minority Labor government also needs to win
support in parliament for the laws, which aim to reduce 2000
emissions by 5 percent by 2020.  The Blanchett ads were paid for by several environmental
and labor groups including Greenpeace, the Australian Council of
Trade Unions and the Australian Youth Climate Coalition.
 Australia  has set a target of generating 20 percent of the
nation’s energy from renewable sources such as wind and solar by
2020.  Business Opposition  The Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry reiterated
its opposition to the government’s carbon plan yesterday. It
also rejected the Business Council of Australia’s proposal last
week for an introductory price of A$10 ($10.70) per metric ton.  The council, a group that consists of chief executive
officers of Australia’s top 100 companies including  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto Ltd. (RIO) , made its proposals in a  submission  to
the government on May 27. It also suggested that businesses
should initially receive full compensation for the tax to ensure
Australia’s policy to price greenhouse gas emissions doesn’t
affect trade and investment.  The government has said it will compensate households and
businesses whose costs increases as a result of the carbon tax.
The annual impact on households of an A$30-per-ton carbon price,
excluding petrol price concessions, would be A$863.20, according
to preliminary Treasury estimates released on April 1 under an
Australian Freedom of Information Act request. At A$20 a ton the
cost would be A$577.20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  