-- 
Germany’s Largest Utilities Fall as Country Keeps Tax in Atomic Phase-Out

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-05-30T10:16:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/eon-rwe-fall-as-germany-keeps-tax-in-atomic-phase-out-plan-1-.html
EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s largest
utilities, fell in Frankfurt after  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
coalition said it will maintain a tax on nuclear plants while
phasing out the  power source . Renewable energy stocks gained.  EON lost 1.6 percent to 19.71 euros as of 11:06 a.m. local
time while RWE fell 2.3 percent to 40.06 euros, the lowest price
in 6 1/2 years. Solarworld AG, a solar panel maker, gained 6.3
percent. Nordex SE, a wind turbine producer, soared 12 percent.  Merkel plans to exit atomic energy by 2022 and won’t allow
seven reactors idled for safety checks to restart after the
disaster at a Japanese nuclear plant in March stoked safety
concerns. While investors probably saw that coming, some may
have expected the government to scrap the tax on nuclear fuel,
said Bernhard Jeggle, a Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg analyst.  “The exit was coming, most people were clear about that,
but that the tax would stay could be negative for the stocks,”
said Jeggle. “EON is hit hardest in total, but if you compare
market capitalizations, then EON and RWE are about level,”
while nuclear operator  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  would
lose the most in terms of capacity.  The tax on spent fuel rods will remain even as the shutdown
proceeds, German Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen told
reporters following the late-evening coalition talks in Berlin.
The levy, introduced this year, is designed to help pay the
clean-up of a nuclear waste storage site.  Legal Options  Merkel said in March she sought to accelerate the  shutdown 
of Germany’s atomic  power plants  following  Japan ’s Fukushima
disaster, the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986. The
decision reversed a 2010 plan to extend the operation of the
facilities by an average of 12 years.  “The planned running times are not what we consider to be
necessary in the context of the energy situation,” Juergen
Frech, a spokesman for Essen, Germany-based RWE, said in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News. “We will keep
all our legal options open.”  Vattenfall has noted the decision and will wait until plans
for  Germany ’s policy overhaul are submitted to Cabinet on June 6
before publishing a statement, Barbara Meyer-Bukow, a Hamburg-
based spokeswoman for the utility, said today by phone.  ‘Many Questions’  “We were not involved in the negotiations and talks and
only know what is being reported today in the media,” Ulrich Schroeder, a spokesman for Karlsruhe, Germany-based EnBW, said
today in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.
“What we hear there throws up many questions including energy,
technical and economic issues which we can’t currently answer.”  Officials at EON didn’t immediately respond to e-
ailed requests for comment.  Nuclear power accounted for 23 percent of German power last
year while generation from renewable sources made up 17 percent,
according to the Berlin-based BDEW utility group. Merkel has
said she wants to speed the transition to renewable energy and
that natural-gas-fired plants will help avoid a shortfall.  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in July last year
that while the tax is independent of the extension, they “are
linked in a political context.”  “The seven oldest reactors that have been placed under a
moratorium and the Kruemmel nuclear power plant won’t go back
online,” Roettgen said. “A second group of six nuclear power
plants will go offline at the end of 2021 at the latest and the
three most modern power plants will go offline 2022 at the
latest.”  Roettgen said there won’t be a revision clause, meaning
there’s “clarity about the end” of nuclear power in Germany
that can’t be turned back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  