-- 
Tepco’s Corporate Ratings Cut to Junk by S&P

-- B y   R y a n   W o o
-- 
2011-05-30T11:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/tepco-s-corporate-ratings-cut-to-junk-by-s-p.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s corporate
credit ratings were lowered to junk status by Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services, which cited an increasing likelihood that
banks may restructure some of the utility’s debts.  The power producer, which posted the biggest loss on record
for a non-financial Japanese company, had its long-term
corporate rating cut to B+ from BBB and short-term corporate
rating cut to B from A-2, S&P said in a statement today. The
utility known as Tepco had its long-term bond ratings reduced to
BB+ from BBB.  Tepco has sought  government aid  to help cover compensation
costs from the disaster at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant crippled
by a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March 11. A group of
banks led by Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. had advanced 2
trillion yen ($24.7 billion) of emergency loans to the utility.  “Tepco’s worsening financial position increases the
likelihood its lender banks could restructure its borrowings,”
S&P said. “Any waiver of loans or distressed restructuring,
such as a lowering of  interest rates  on existing loans,
constitutes a form of default and would trigger a lowering of
the corporate credit ratings on Tepco to SD -- Selective
Default.”  S&P still sees a strong likelihood the government will
implement the plan announced on May 13 to help Tepco finance
compensation for damage related to the nuclear crisis.  Unclear Framework  “It remains unclear from the announcement whether the
framework for the scheme is subject to lender banks’ cooperation
and, if it is, what form the bank cooperation will take,” S&P
said.  Shares of the utility have fallen 85 percent since March
10. Tepco rose 1.6 percent to close at 326 yen today, before the
S&P downgrade.  Tepco had a loss of 1.25 trillion yen in the year ended
March 31. That eclipsed the 812 billion yen deficit reported by
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. for the year ended March
2002, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Mizuho Financial Group
Inc.’s 2.38 trillion-yen loss the following year is  Japan ’s
largest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Woo in Singapore at 
 rwoo5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  