-- 
Merkel Will Scrap German Nuclear Plants by 2022 After Fukushima Disaster

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-05-30T16:27:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/merkel-s-coalition-agrees-to-shut-all-of-germany-s-nuclear-plants-by-2022.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition endorsed a blueprint to shut its nuclear-power plants
by 2022, repealing the law she pushed to extend the life of the
reactors to become the biggest nation to exit atomic power.  EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , the two biggest utilities, led declines
on the benchmark DAX stock index, with RWE falling to its lowest
since December 2004 as the government retained a tax on spent
fuel rods. Solar-power companies  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and  Solarworld AG (SWV) 
rallied.  The decision in the early morning hours today by coalition
leaders in Berlin underscored Merkel’s flip-flop from a 2009 re-
election promise to extend the life of nuclear reactors. She did
her about-face after the March meltdown in  Japan  as the anti-
nuclear  Green Party  gained in polls. Her party lost control of
Baden-Wuerttemberg state to the Greens in March and finished
behind them in a state election for the first time on May 22.  “As far as the government’s credibility is concerned, it
was about damage limitation,” said Bernhard Jeggle, a utility
analyst with Landesbank Baden Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart. “Those
people who wanted to exit nuclear probably voted Green in the
first place and will continue to choose the original rather than
Merkel’s copy.”  Germany ’s BWE renewable energy federation said this year
its members were prepared to spend as much as 200 billion euros
($286 billion) by 2020 to develop wind and solar power. Merkel
wants to present five or six bills in Cabinet on June 6,
including a revamp of feed-in-tariffs for solar, wind and bio-
mass power, new building insulation targets and plans to build
new “smart” power grids.  Cost Concerns  Businesses and utilities opposed Merkel’s move, warning of
increased costs and less reliable power sources. Merkel said the
government will ensure the shift won’t disrupt power supplies
fueling Europe’s biggest economy.  “Germany is one of the best-performing and economically
most successful countries in the world,” Merkel said today.
“For that to stay this way, we have to have a competitive
 energy supply . Our citizens trust that there is sufficient
availability at any given time.”  Nuclear supplied some 22 percent of German power in 2010,
while renewable sources provided 17 percent, the  Economy
Ministry  said. Europe is split on the future of nuclear power,
with  France  and the U.K. planning more reactors while Germany
joined  Switzerland  in setting an exit date and  Italy  extended a
moratorium on plans to re-enter atomic energy.  Power Exports  Germany is Europe’s largest power market, followed by
France. Germany last year was a net exporter of power to France,
sending 16.1 terawatt hours to the country compared with imports
of 9.4 terawatt hours, according to data published by grid
operate Reseau de Transport d’Electricite.  “It’s hard to see how they will replace the energy,”  Anne Lauvergeon , chief executive officer of French state-owned Areva
SA, the world’s biggest maker of nuclear equipment, said. “I’m
not sure there is enough Polish coal, and it creates carbon
problems. Alternative energy sources are intermittent sources. I
think they will do what  Austria  did in its time: import nuclear
electricity from neighboring countries.”  EON slumped 2.3 percent to 19.56 euros in Frankfurt
trading, extending the stock’s decline to 15 percent this year.
Smaller rival RWE fell 1.7 percent to 40.31 euros.  Q-Cells jumped 8.5 percent to 1.92 euros and Solarworld
added 8.8 percent to 9.62 euros.  Post-Fukushima  Merkel in March said she sought to accelerate the  shutdown 
of Germany’s atomic  power plants  following Japan’s Fukushima
disaster, the worst nuclear crisis since 1986. The decision
reversed a 2010 plan to extend the operation of the facilities
by an average of 12 years.  “The seven oldest reactors that have been placed under a
moratorium and the Kruemmel nuclear power plant won’t go back
online,” Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen told reporters
following the coalition talks. “A second group of six nuclear
power plants will go offline at the end of 2021 at the latest
and the three most modern power plants will go offline 2022 at
the latest.”  The proposal will have to be approved by Parliament before
being enacted. It may also face legal challenges. Juergen Frech,
a spokesman for Essen, Germany-based RWE, said in a statement
today, “we will keep all our legal options open.”  Germany may keep one of the seven oldest reactors in
reserve should the country be at risk of blackouts, Roettgen
said later today at a press conference with Merkel in Berlin.  Tax on Fuel Rods  A tax on spent fuel rods introduced this year to cover some
of the costs of their disposal as well as help the budget will
stay on the statute books, Roettgen said.  With the possibility that a federal election in 2013 may
result in a new government, Merkel is seeking broad backing for
revamping nuclear policy.  Roettgen said there won’t be a revision clause, meaning
there’s “clarity about the end” of nuclear power in Germany
that can’t be turned back.  Anti-nuclear activists, such as Greenpeace, called the
shutdown process too slow. The Greens called a party conference
June 25 to decide whether to support Merkel’s U-turn.  The CDU’s “Wirtschaftsrat” or council of affiliated
companies, said Merkel’s “go-it-alone” nuclear policy in
 Europe  may add billions of euros to power bills paid by industry
and consumers.  “I’ve heard lots about a phase-out of nuclear power but
little about the costs of phasing in renewable energy,” its
President Kurt Lauk told reporters in Berlin on May 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  