-- 
Merkel’s Atomic Energy Overhaul May Aid Industry at Expense of Consumers

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-05-30T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/merkel-s-atomic-overhaul-may-aid-industry-at-consumers-expense.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  may rely on
German consumers to shoulder the cost of exiting nuclear power
as she seeks to shelter companies whose exports are driving
growth in Europe’s biggest economy.  Merkel’s coalition will shut 17 atomic plants by 2022 under
a plan outlined yesterday, tilting the energy mix toward
renewables following the disaster in  Japan .  The decision prompted the  VIK  lobby group to predict a 225-
euro ($321) a year increase in power bills for a three-person
household, based on a forecast from a committee advising the
government that wholesale power prices may rise as much as 85
percent from now.  “Everything’s on the line here for us,” Annette Loske,
who heads the lobby representing energy users including
steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG and carmaker  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said by
phone from the city of Essen. “This electricity price increase
specific to  Germany  can’t be allowed to reach industry.”  Industries from carmakers to chemical producers are
pressing Merkel press for exemptions from higher prices they say
will make their products costlier than those of foreign rivals.
Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen said yesterday he plans to
extend breaks in subsidies to more companies that are obliged to
pay for cleaner forms of energy.  Germany became the biggest economy to announce a phase out
of atomic power after a meltdown at Japanese reactors in March
stoked safety concerns, costing Merkel’s Christian Democrats
votes in state elections as support for the anti-nuclear  Green
Party  soared to a record.  Policy Reversal  The chancellor, who scrapped plans to extend the lives of
nuclear plants by an average 12 years that she pushed through
parliament last year, will present as many as six bills to
Cabinet next week on the energy shift. These include a revamp of
feed-in-tariffs for solar, wind and bio-mass power, new building
insulation targets and plans for “smart” power grids.  The reversal will cost as much as 30 billion euros, and the
government “hasn’t got a magic wand to wave that money out of a
hat,” Joachim Pfeiffer, parliamentary energy and economic
policy spokesman for Merkel’s party, said this month.  “It’s the consumer who will pay the bill, who else?”
 Michael Schaefer , an analyst with Equinet AG in  Frankfurt , said
last week. “You can’t switch off cost-efficient baseload power
generation at the same time as trying to keep prices low.”
Baseload is electricity delivered around the clock.  Electricity Costs  German households, already shouldering electricity prices
that are among the highest in  Europe , pay twice as much as in
 France , where 80 percent of electricity comes from atomic
plants, French Industry Minister Eric Besson said yesterday.  Exiting nuclear could boost wholesale power prices by as
much as 50 euros a megawatt-hour, a committee charged by the
government with assessing the economic and ethical aspects of
atomic energy. At that rate, a three-person household’s annual
bill would rise by 225 euros, the VIK estimates.  Baseload power for next-month delivery averaged 58.80 euros
a megawatt-hour since Merkel ordered the seven oldest reactors
idled in March pending a review that resulted in yesterday’s
decision to close them with immediate effect, according to
broker prices on Bloomberg. That’s 11 percent higher than in the
same period a year earlier.  Germany’s 17 nuclear power plants, operated by EON AG,  RWE
AG (RWE) ,  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  and Vattenfall AB, supply
23 percent of the country’s power while wind, solar and other
more volatile, subsidized renewable sources generated 17 percent
last year, according to the BDEW German utility association.  Utilities Fall  EON has fallen 15 percent in Frankfurt trading since the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami devastated Japan’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi power plant. RWE has dropped 16 percent. Vattenfall is
owned by  Sweden ’s government and EnBW is more than 93 percent-
held by a southwestern German state and local municipalities.  The BDI business lobby wants Merkel’s government to be
ready to adjust its nuclear exit plans should energy output and
grid expansion fail to meet milestone targets between now and
the closure of the last reactor in 2022, Hans-Peter Keitel, the
federation’s head, wrote yesterday in a public letter.  “At the moment we have a two-step system of support” for
energy-intensive companies, Roettgen told reporters yesterday.
Companies that consume as much as 10 gigawatt-hours of power per
year don’t get any aid, the environment minister said. “We’re
changing that by introducing a linear system” in which
companies will get more aid the more they consume, starting at 1
gigawatt hour.  Germany, home to wind turbine maker  Nordex SE (NDX1)  and
photovoltaic panel producer Solarworld AG, would see its
renewable sector profit from increased demand. The country’s
gross domestic product could be almost 3 percent higher in 2030
thanks to the policy shift, the Berlin-based DIW economic
institute  said May 19 .  Nordex shares soared 13 percent to 6.80 euros yesterday
while Solarworld, which is based in Bonn, added 8.8 percent to
9.62 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  