-- 
Eskom Interrupted Power to BHP Billiton Aluminum Smelter on Low Supplies

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-05-30T13:46:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/eskom-interrupted-bhp-billiton-aluminum-smelter-power-this-month.html
Eskom Holdings Ltd., which supplies
about 95 percent of South Africa’s electricity, said it
interrupted power supplies to  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s smelters this
month to help manage “tight supplies” amid colder weather.  Eskom also invoked power-reduction agreements with large
customers it can’t name “more frequently, almost daily,”
Hilary Joffe, a spokeswoman for Johannesburg-based Eskom said by
phone today. Customers, excluding BHP, whose tariff agreement
with Eskom incorporates an interruption clause, receive
financial compensation in return for reducing electricity use.  “Temperatures dropped quite early, so demand rose,” Joffe
said. The utility used gas-fired plants, which are expensive to
run “more than usual,” she said. South Africa  Electricity shortages caused rolling blackouts and
temporarily shut msot of the country's mines and smelters for 
five days in January 2008. Eskom has warned that the gap between 
demand and supply will be narrow, at least until the first unit of 
the Medupi plant, which is part of a 485 billion-rand ($70 billion)
expansion program, starts generating power in the fourth quarter
of 2012.  Winter Peak  While the demand and supply gap remains small, “the
picture of a system in crisis is not what we’re looking at
here,” Joffe said. “There’s been a conscious decision to run
the system tighter than usual.” Eskom carried out “some last”
maintenance work this month ahead of winter, when usage peaks,
she said.  Eskom said last month it’s unable to carry out sufficient
maintenance ahead of the South African winter because demand is
too high to shut plants.  Demand  rose 1.4 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, according to Statistics  South
Africa .  Demand rose to more than 36,000 megawatts last week and may
peak at about 35,800 megawatts today, Joffe said. Eskom’s net
maximum capacity is about 40,500 megawatts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  