-- 
European Stocks Are Little Changed; BASF Gains, Greek Banks Drop

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-05-30T15:56:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/european-stock-index-futures-drop-greek-banks-rwe-shares-might-be-active.html
European stocks were little changed
after four straight weeks of losses for the benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, as chemical makers and renewable-energy
companies gained while banks fell amid sovereign-debt concern.  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest maker of chemicals, rose 1
percent. Renewable Energy Corp. ASA and Vestas Wind Systems A/S
climbed more than 2.5 percent as  Germany  set 2022 as the final
date to close its nuclear reactors. Alpha Bank SA tumbled 9.1
percent in  Athens  as the  International Monetary Fund  reviewed
 Greece ’s efforts toward meeting fiscal targets.  The Stoxx 600 slipped less than 0.1 percent to 278.82 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . Trading volume was lower than
normal as U.K. and U.S. exchanges were closed for holidays.  Speculation that Greece will restructure its debt and
concern the outlook for other economies in the region is
worsening has weighed on stocks since February. The Stoxx 600
has dropped 4.2 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 17,
bringing its valuation to 11.1 times the estimated earnings of
its companies, near the cheapest since April 2009.  “The debt issues come up again and again, but a lot of
people are getting used to these ongoing concerns,” said Peter Braendle, who helps manage $68 billion at Swisscanto Asset
Management in Zurich. “We are fairly optimistic on European
stocks because of valuations and we are increasing exposure in
 Europe  compared to other markets.”  ‘Death Sentence’  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said he’ll press
ahead with new austerity measures after failing to win backing
from the main opposition parties. An international panel of
inspectors has concluded that the debt-laden country has missed
all the fiscal targets agreed in its rescue plan,  Der Spiegel 
reported May 29, without saying how it obtained the information.  IMF talks with Greek officials to assess the nation’s
fiscal achievements continue, Conny Lotze, a Washington-based
IMF spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. A debt restructuring would
be a “death sentence” and have a dramatic destabilizing impact
on the euro region, European Central Bank executive board member
Lorenzo Bini Smaghi told the Financial Times.  “The Greek song is the same one and it’s taking longer
than hoped for,” said Jacques Porta, a Paris-based  fund manager 
at Ofi Patrimoine, who helps oversee about $425 million in
stocks. “We’re not pessimists, and declines in stocks present
buying opportunities, but given how things are, we prefer to
hold and wait.”  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes declined in 10 of the 17 western
European markets open today.  France ’s CAC 40 slipped 0.2 percent
and the Swiss Market Index lost 0.3 percent, while Greece’s ASE
sank 2 percent to the lowest since 1997.  Trading in Euro Stoxx 50 futures today was less than a
fifth of the average daily volume over the past 20 sessions,
according to Bloomberg data.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  equity strategists cut their
earnings and price forecasts for the Stoxx 600, citing lower
economic growth worldwide and higher commodity prices.  Earnings for companies in the European benchmark may
increase by 14 percent this year, down from a previous estimate
of 20 percent, the strategists wrote in a report dated May 27.
The Stoxx 600 may trade at 280 in three months and 300 in six
months, down from forecasts of 290 and 310, respectively.  BASF rose 1 percent to 61.92 euros, leading a measure of
chemical makers to the biggest gain among 19 industry groups in
the Stoxx 600.  REC, Vestas  Alternative-energy companies rose as German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s coalition resolved their differences over the
timing of an exit from nuclear power following  Japan ’s Fukushima
disaster, the worst nuclear crisis since 1986.  Renewable Energy Corp., a maker of solar-energy wafers,
cells and modules, gained 3.7 percent to 12.99 kroner. Vestas,
the largest wind-turbine manufacturer, climbed 2.7 percent to
151 kroner. Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA, Europe’s second-biggest
wind-turbine maker, surged 5.2 percent to 6.52 euros and  Enel
Green Power SpA (EGPW) , a unit of  Italy ’s largest energy company,
rallied 4.8 percent to 1.92 euros.  RWE AG (RWE)  and EON AG, Germany’s largest power companies,
retreated 1.7 percent to 40.31 euros and 2.3 percent to 19.56
euros, respectively. A tax on spent fuel rods will remain even
as the shutdown proceeds, German Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen said.  Alpha Bank, Greece’s third-biggest lender, slumped 9.1
percent to 2.91 euros, the lowest since June 1995.  EFG Eurobank
Ergasias SA (EUROB) , the country’s second-largest bank, declined 6.2
percent to 2.87 euros.  ‘Increasingly Difficult’  “So far the Greek crisis has remained within certain
limits, but as the situation deteriorates, the risk increases of
starting to see the effect broadening,” said Elwin de Groot,
senior market economist at Rabobank in Utrecht,  Netherlands .
“The situation looks increasingly difficult.”  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) ,  Portugal ’s biggest non-state
bank by assets, retreated 6.6 percent to 46.7 euro cents, the
lowest since at least 1993. Rights that allow the purchase of
shares for 36 cents each tumbled 33 percent to 1.1 cent, meaning
investors must pay almost 10 cents to acquire one new share at
that price.  Athens-based Intralot SA, the world’s second-biggest
gambling services provider, tumbled 22 percent to 1.64 euros,
the largest drop in 12 years. Chairman Sokratis Kokkalis may
face prosecution after an investigation into a technical
services contract with Opap SA, Eleftherotypia newspaper said,
without saying where it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  