-- 
Stocks, Euro Rise on Greek Aid Optimism; Colombia Peso Gains

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-05-31T19:12:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/euro-rises-on-optimism-over-greece-aid-u-s-index-futures-gain-oil-drops.html
Stocks rose worldwide, paring the
worst monthly drop since August, and the euro gained amid
speculation nations will pledge more aid to  Greece . Commodities
climbed, Treasuries erased losses as U.S. economic reports
missed forecasts, while Colombia’s peso advanced.  The MSCI All-Country World Index jumped 1 percent at 3:11
p.m. in New York, paring this month’s loss to 2.8 percent. The
euro climbed to a three-week high of $1.4380, while the yen fell
against all 16 major peers. Among 10-year bonds, Greece’s yield
slid 39 basis points to 16.04 percent and the rate on the U.S.
Treasuries dropped to 3.04 percent from 3.10 percent earlier.
Colombia’s currency, bonds and stocks increased as Moody’s
Investors Service raised the nation’s debt to investment grade.  European Union leaders will decide on a new aid package for
Greece by the end of next month, Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of euro-area finance ministers,
said yesterday in Paris. More than $1.8 trillion was erased from
the value of stocks worldwide this month through yesterday as
evidence mounted that the U.S. economic recovery is slowing and
EU officials struggled to contain the region’s debt crisis.  “Markets are focused on the debt crisis,” said Tom Mangan, who helps oversee $2.7 billion at James Investment
Research Inc. in Xenia,  Ohio . “We have had a pattern where the
impact on the dollar is positive, U.S. bonds do better and
stocks fade every time the Greek crisis rears its ugly head, and
the other way around. This will continue until we get it
resolved.”  Best Performance  The dollar beat stocks, bonds and commodities for the best
performance in May through yesterday. The Dollar Index climbed
2.8 percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities fell
3.8 percent,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s measures of Treasuries and
investment-grade corporate bonds returned 1.5 percent and 1.3
percent, and the S&P GSCI Index of commodities sank 7.9 percent.  Greece’s ASE Index rallied 5.6 percent to lead gains in
major developed- and emerging-market stocks. Measures of shares
in  Hong Kong ,  Spain ,  Japan ,  South Korea ,  Hungary  and  Turkey 
advanced at least 2 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
the benchmark gauge of U.S. equities, rose 0.4 percent.  Pfizer Inc., Cisco Systems Inc. and  Procter & Gamble Co .
climbed at least 1 percent to lead gains in 28 of 30 stocks in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Intel Corp. (INTC)  rose 0.9 percent
as the world’s largest chipmaker seeks to challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPad and other tablets with a new “ultrabook” laptop.  Economic Reports  U.S. stocks rallied even as economic reports reversed
losses in Treasuries. Confidence among consumers unexpectedly
declined to a six-month low in May as Americans’ outlook for
business conditions and the labor market soured. Business
activity cooled more than forecast in May, a sign manufacturing
may be leveling off after leading the recovery in the world’s
largest economy.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index climbed 0.8 percent. Alpha Bank
SA and EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA led a rally in Greek banks,
surging more than 8.5 percent.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  tumbled 18 percent in
Helsinki, falling to the lowest level since 1998, after cutting
forecasts for its devices and services unit because of lower
prices and competition from Google Inc. and Apple Inc.  The euro climbed 0.6 percent against the dollar and 1.2
percent versus the yen. Japan’s currency weakened against all 16
of its most-traded counterparts after Moody’s Investors Service
signaled it may cut the country’s credit rating. The Dollar
Index, which tracks the currency against those of six U.S.
trading partners, dropped 0.4 percent, falling to the lowest
since May 10. The New Zealand dollar gained as much as 1.2
percent to a record 82.64 U.S. cents.  Not Total Restructuring  Greek 10-year bonds yielded 1,302 basis points more than
their German equivalents, down from 1,345 yesterday. EU
officials have ruled out a “total restructuring” of Greece’s
debt, Juncker said yesterday.  Germany  may stop demanding an
early rescheduling of bonds for Greece so the nation can get a
new package of loans, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing
unidentified people.  Commodities headed for the worst month in a year, snapping
the longest winning streak since 1980, as accelerating inflation
in  China  and a sovereign-debt crisis in Europe fanned concern
the economic recovery may slow. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index
of 24 raw-material futures has dropped 7 percent this month, the
worst performance since May 2010. The index rebounded 1 percent
today.  Oil,  Colombia   Crude oil for July delivery climbed 1.7 percent to $102.31
a barrel. Wheat tumbled the most in almost three weeks after
 Russia , once the second-biggest exporter, said it will allow
grain shipments to resume after a 10-month ban. Wheat futures
for July delivery dropped 5.2 percent to $7.7750 a bushel.  Colombia’s peso strengthened against 14 of 16 major peers
after the government’s credit rating was raised to investment
grade by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited economic growth
and a reduction in the threat posed by guerrilla groups and
organized crime. Moody’s raised Colombia to Baa3, the lowest
investment grade, from Ba1. The move puts Colombia’s rating in
line with  Brazil ,  Peru  and  Panama . The outlook is stable.  Colombia’s peso jumped as much as 1 percent to 1,791.24 per
dollar, its strongest level since May 11. The yield on the
nation’s benchmark peso bonds due July 2024 fell three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.14 percent. The IGBC
stock index rose 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 