-- 
Euro Climbs to Highest in Three Weeks on Optimism for Greek Aid; Yen Drops

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-05-31T21:18:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/euro-rises-to-three-week-high-on-optimism-germany-to-support-new-greek-aid.html
The euro rose to a three-week high
against the dollar on speculation European officials will
approve additional aid to  Greece  next month, dimming prospects
for a sovereign-debt restructuring.  The shared currency pared its first monthly loss since
November after Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker 
said the region’s leaders will decide on a new aid package by
the end of June and have ruled out a “total restructuring” of
Greece’s debt. Currencies of commodity-exporting countries
climbed as investors sought higher-yielding assets.  “Euro strength is back on further Greece solutions,” said
 Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. in New York. “For now, markets are reacting
positively on it, because it solves the issue for today.”  The euro rose 0.8 percent to $1.4396 at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
after earlier reaching $1.4424, the strongest since May 9. The
euro dropped 2.8 percent this month versus the greenback. It
gained 1.5 percent to 117.37 yen, trimming its first monthly
loss this year to 2.4 percent. Japan’s currency weakened 0.7
percent to 81.52 per dollar.  The yen pared earlier losses versus the dollar as a report
showed U.S. consumer confidence unexpectedly fell in May to a
six-month low and the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago
Inc. purchasing-manager index dropped more than forecast.  ‘Disappointing’ Data  “The Chicago PMI and the consumer confidence were both
disappointing and probably continue the recent run of the U.S.
figures, which have generally been a little bit softer in
tone,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “It is adding a little bit of
caution to the markets.”  The euro stayed higher after a report showed German retail
sales rose in April as unemployment fell below 3 million for the
first time in almost 19 years, fueling bets the  European Central
Bank  will signal next week that it may raise interest rates for
a second time this year.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings,
increased 0.6 percent from March, the Federal Statistics Office
said today. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast a 1.8
percent gain.  A separate European Union report showed euro-region
inflation slowed in May to 2.7 percent from April’s 2.8 percent,
the fastest pace since October 2008.  Progress Review  Inspectors from the EU, the  International Monetary Fund  and
the ECB are set to conclude a review of Greece’s progress in
meeting the terms of last year’s 110 billion-euro ($158 billion)
bailout in coming days. The EU will then formulate its plan for
additional aid.  Germany  may stop demanding an early rescheduling of bonds
for Greece so that it can get a new package of loans, the Wall
Street Journal reported, citing people it didn’t identify.  South Africa’s rand rose versus all of its 16 most-traded
peers. It gained 1.9 percent to 6.8021 per dollar. New Zealand’s
dollar jumped 0.9 percent to 82.39 U.S. cents and touched 82.64
cents, the highest since it was freely floated in 1985.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
rose 1.1 percent, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced
1.1 percent.  The yen extended losses versus the euro after Moody’s put
 Japan ’s Aa2 local and foreign-currency bond ratings on review
for a downgrade, citing weakening growth. The company put
Japan’s Aa2 sovereign-debt grade on negative outlook in
February. Review for a downgrade means a decision is due within
three months, according to Moody’s.  Fitch Ratings  last week lowered its outlook to negative on
Japan’s AA rating. S&P cut the outlook on its AA-grade in April
after lowering the rating in January. The current grade from
Moody’s is one step higher than S&P and Fitch.  ‘Under Pressure’  “With the threat of the current global slowdown now well
priced in and peripheral risks lower, funding currencies are
under pressure, and the yen more so than the dollar,” said
 Sebastien Galy , a currency strategist at Societe Generale SA in
 London . A funding currency is one that investors borrow to fund
bets on higher-yielding assets.  Canada’s currency gained the most this year versus the  U.S.
dollar  after the Bank of Canada kept its key interest rate at 1
percent and commodities rose. Raw materials account for half the
nation’s export revenue.  The Canadian dollar appreciated as much as 1.2 percent, the
biggest intraday jump since Dec. 2, to 96.55 cents per U.S.
dollar before trading at 96.85, up 0.9 percent.  U.S. Data  The Conference Board’s index of U.S.  consumer confidence 
fell to 60.8 from a revised 66 reading in April, compared with a
Bloomberg survey forecast for a rise to 66.6. The Chicago
purchasing-manager gauge dropped to 56.6 in May, from 67.6 in
April, compared with a Bloomberg survey’s forecast for 62.  Investors may be unwilling to react to signs of slowing
growth by buying the dollar and selling riskier assets,
concerned the  Federal Reserve  could be prompted to increase
asset purchases, according to UBS AG.  “There is some anticipation that if problems escalate,
central banks’ liquidity hoses will be ready to put out even the
smallest flames, just to keep growth expectations intact,”
 Geoffrey Yu , a currency strategist in London, wrote today in an
e-mailed note. “Foreign-exchange markets and dollar bulls
should never underestimate the proclivity of the ‘risk chasers’
to price back in quantitative easing.”  The Fed said in November it would buy $600 billion in
Treasuries through June in a second round of so-called
quantitative easing to stabilize the  U.S. economy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  