-- 
European Champ Barcelona Cancels Plan to Develop Soccer’s ‘Harvard’ Abroad

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-05-30T12:52:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/european-champ-barcelona-cancels-plan-to-develop-soccer-s-harvard-abroad.html
Barcelona, whose academy trained
 Lionel Messi  and six other players in its Champions League-
winning team, is revising plans to open soccer schools and
franchises abroad.  The club may shut a facility in  Argentina  it opened in 2007
and won’t reconsider plans for a sister team abroad, Vice
President Javier Faus said in an interview last week. In 2009,
Barcelona shelved plans for a Major League Soccer team in Miami,
citing the global economic slump.  Barcelona’s board of directors, led by President  Sandro Rosell , is reviewing the strategy of predecessor Joan Laporta,
whom he replaced last year. Barcelona beat Manchester United 3-1
at  London ’s Wembley stadium two days ago to win its third
Champions League in six years.  “We don’t believe in having Barcelona all over the
world,” Faus said. “To educate people with Barcelona’s values
we have to have them close: there’s only Barca, like there’s
only one Harvard business school.”  Barcelona scouts around the world for youth academy
players, housing them in an 18th-century country house known as
“La Masia” next to the team’s Camp Nou stadium. Players always
work with the ball, even when they are warming up, according to
Andres Carrasco, one of the coaches. The academy also pays more
attention to the “human side” of players than those of other
clubs, Faus said.  Graduates include  Champions League  winners Messi,  Andres Iniesta  and  Pedro Rodriguez .  In September, Barcelona is moving youth-team players to a
residence on the outskirts of the city that will accommodate 140
boarders, twice as many as before, Faus said. The club is
increasing spending on its youth-team ranks to 50 million euros
($71.4 million) a year from 20 million euros as part of the
relocation, Faus added.  The Argentine academy, which trains about 200 children near
 Buenos Aires  and costs about 2 million euros, isn’t part of the
team’s long-term strategy, Faus said. Previous president Laporta
had planned to open schools in other countries.  In 2009, Barcelona dropped plans to co-own a team in the
U.S. with Miami-based Bolivian Marcelo Claure, chief executive
officer of telephone maker Brightstar Corp.  “We don’t plan to do anything like that again,” Faus
said. “We’re not a franchise. We want all our players within
arm’s length of here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Barcelona at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  