-- 
Euro Weakens on Greek Debt Concerns; Oil, Copper, Wheat Decline

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 
2011-05-30T20:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/euro-weakens-on-greece-debt-crisis-concerns-oil-falls-kiwi-strengthens.html
The euro weakened for the first time
in three days versus the dollar, while oil and copper fell in
 New York  on concern European governments will struggle to
resolve the region’s debt crisis amid a slowing global recovery.  The euro declined against 13 of 16 major peers at 4 p.m. in
New York. The yield gap between Portuguese and German 10-year
bonds climbed to a record and Italian yields rose as the
government sold debt. Crude oil lost 0.2 percent, copper futures
broke a four-day winning streak and wheat sank 4.9 percent in
Paris. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.1 percent as EON AG and
 RWE AG (RWE)  dropped after German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coalition
endorsed a plan to close all atomic-power plants by 2022.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said he’ll press
ahead with new austerity measures after failing to win backing
from the main opposition parties as he races to keep bailout
funds flowing and avoid default. U.S. employers probably hired
fewer workers in May and factory orders in the world’s largest
economy grew at the slowest pace in seven months, economists
said before reports this week.  Greece “will be the focus this week, whether they can
agree on the austerity conditions that are required,”  Tim Condon , head of Asia research at ING Groep NV, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview from  Hong Kong . Doubts about the
global economy will first “hit the peripheral European debt
crisis countries,” he said.  Austerity Plan  The euro slipped 0.3 percent to $1.4277 and fell 0.1
percent to 115.57 yen. Antonis Samaras, leader of Greece’s
biggest opposition party,  New Democracy , rejected the plan at a
meeting with Papandreou and other opposition leaders in  Athens ,
saying his party wouldn’t be blackmailed. European Union
officials have called for consensus on the package, which
includes an additional 6 billion euros ($8.6 billion) of budget
cuts and a plan to speed 50 billion euros of state-asset sales,
before approving more aid that  Greece  needs to avoid default.  The European Union may withhold the next amount of credit
to Greece after a report by an international panel of inspectors
concluded that the debt-laden country has missed all the fiscal
targets agreed in its rescue plan,  Der Spiegel  said, without
saying how it obtained the information.  Portuguese 10-year bonds fell the most in a week, sending
the yield spread with German bunds, Europe’s benchmark
government security, 18 basis points higher to 678 basis points,
the most since Bloomberg began gathering the data in 1997.
Italian 10-year yields rose six basis points to 4.81 percent
after the government sold 8.3 billion euros ($12 billion) debt.
 Spain  is due to sell debt on June 2.  Russia Ban  Oil for July delivery slipped to $100.38 a barrel in New
York, and copper for July delivery dropped 0.5 percent. Milling
wheat futures tumbled 4.9 percent after Russia said on May 28 it
will let a grain-export ban expire July 1, increasing supply as
drought and flooding threatens crops in  Europe  and the U.S.
Markets in the U.K. were closed for a public holiday today.  Seventeen stocks advanced for every sixteen that declined
in the Stoxx 600. EON and RWE,  Germany ’s largest utilities, fell
2.3 percent and 1.7 percent, respectively, after Merkel’s
coalition said it will maintain a tax on nuclear plants while
phasing out the  power source . RWE shares declined to the lowest
level since December 2004.  Alternative-energy stocks gained. Vestas Wind Systems A/S,
the largest wind-turbine manufacturer, climbed 2.7 percent and
Renewable Energy Corp. gained 3.7 percent.  U.S. stock exchanges and the Treasury market were closed
for the Memorial Day holiday. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
futures expiring in June rose 0.1 percent. The gauge rallied for
a third day on May 27, paring its weekly loss to 0.2 percent.
Its four-week slump was the longest since February 2010.  Payrolls probably rose 185,000 in May, slowing from a
244,000 gain in April, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey before Labor Department figures June 3. A
separate survey showed the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
factory index likely fell to 57.6 this month, the lowest level
since October.  Brazilian stocks slumped, breaking a four-day winning
streak for the Bovespa index, which lost 0.5 percent. A report
showed lending in  Brazil  expanded in April, spurring speculation
that policy makers haven’t done enough to curb inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 