-- 
African Union Says Extremists Dressed as Soldiers Attack Base; Five Killed

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-05-30T18:25:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/extremists-dressed-as-soldiers-kill-five-in-mogadishu-african-union-says.html
The  African Union  said at least five
people, including two peacekeepers, were killed in an attack by
“extremists” in the Somali capital, Mogadishu.  An AU position at Shakala in the city was attacked by
“several extremists” dressed as Somali soldiers, Major Paddy
Ankunda, a spokesman for the force, known as Amisom, said in an
e-mailed statement today. A firefight ensued and three of the
attackers were killed, including one “would-be suicide
bomber,” he said.  Two Amisom soldiers were killed and another was injured,
while three fighters from the pro-government Ahlu Sunah Waljamah
militia that was helping guard Shakala were also wounded,
Ankunda said.  Somalia’s government has been battling Islamist insurgents,
including al-Shabaab, since 2007. The rebels control most of
southern and central Somalia. The U.S. accuses al-Shabaab of
having links to al-Qaeda, which has said it aims to establish a
caliphate, or Islamic government, in the Horn of Africa country.  AU forces have made gains against the insurgents in
Mogadishu in recent months and now control 13 of the city’s 16
districts, Information Minister Abdulkareem Jama said last week.
Somalia’s government controlled 40 percent of the city in
October, Wafula Wamunyinyi, deputy special representative to the
African Union Commission for Somalia, said that month.  Islamic insurgents have fled several key positions,
including sections of the Bakara market, once a militia
stronghold, in a government-led offensive that began this month,
Nathan Mugisha, commander of Somalia’s Africa Union mission,
said on May 23. The fighting claimed the lives of 22 militants
and two AU soldiers, he said.  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central administration
since the ouster of the former dictator, Mohamed Siad Barre, in
1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 