-- 
Obama Honors Fallen U.S. Soldiers at Arlington

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-05-30T16:43:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/fallen-u-s-troops-honored-by-obama-at-arlington-cemetery-on-memorial-day.html
President  Barack Obama  paid a
Memorial Day tribute to generations of Americans who have fought
and died to defend the nation’s freedom.  “The grief that many of you carry in your hearts is a
grief I cannot fully know,” Obama said at the 144th Memorial
Day Observance at Arlington National Cemetery. “This day is
about you and the fallen heroes that you loved, and it’s a day
that has meaning for all Americans.”  Earlier in the day he and first lady  Michelle Obama  hosted
a private breakfast for Gold Star families who’ve lost loved
ones in war and later laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknowns
at the cemetery.  After Obama’s remarks, he and the first lady visited the
cemetery’s Section 60 to meet with families of soldiers buried
there. Section 60 is for those who lost their lives since the
terrorist attacks of 9/11.  Almost 6,000 U.S. military personnel have died in wars in
Iraq and  Afghanistan , and more than 43,470 have been wounded,
according to the  Defense Department .  “We remember that the blessings we enjoy as Americans came
at a dear cost, that our very presence here today as a free
people in a free society bears testimony to their enduring
legacy,” the president said to an audience of military
officials, their families and the public at the remembrance
ceremony at Memorial Amphitheater in Arlington.  In a Memorial Day proclamation, the president ordered the
U.S. flag be flown at half-staff on government buildings until
noon, and asked that Americans observe a moment of remembrance
at 3 p.m. local time.  “As a grateful nation, we forever carry the selfless
sacrifice of our fallen heroes in our hearts, and we share the
task of caring for those they left behind,” the proclamation
said in part.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen at Arlington National Cemetery
   rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  