-- 
World Soccer Sponsors Express Concern as FIFA Is Engulfed by Scandal

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-31T11:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/fifa-s-blatter-says-no-crisis-even-after-suspension-of-two-executives.html
     May 31 (Bloomberg) --  FIFA  President  Sepp Blatter  defended
himself and said soccer’s governing body isn’t in “crisis”
after two of its most senior executives were suspended in a
corruption scandal.  “Crisis, what is a crisis?” Blatter told reporters at a
fractious press conference in Zurich yesterday. “We are not in
a crisis, only some difficulties.”  The Zurich-based soccer body, which gets $4 billion from
its quadrennial World Cup tournament, on May 29 suspended
Mohamed  Bin Hammam , the Qatari head of soccer in  Asia , and FIFA
Vice President Jack Warner, two of the longest-serving executive
committee members. They’re accused of trying to bribe Caribbean
officials with $40,000 in cash each to vote for Bin Hammam over
Blatter in FIFA’s presidential election.  The scandal has caused disquiet among FIFA’s sponsors,
including  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , Emirates airline and Adidas AG. Coca-
Cola said the “current allegations being raised are distressing
and bad for the sport.”  Blatter, 75, said he expected the election to go ahead
tomorrow even after Bin Hammam’s decision on May 29 to stand
down, and amid calls from government officials in the U.K. and
 Australia  for it to be called off. England’s Football
Association, which had already decided to abstain in the
election, today called for the vote to be postponed. Blatter is
running for a fourth four-year term.  He twice rebuked members of the media yesterday after being
heckled for not answering questions. He refused to say whether
he backed  Jerome Valcke , FIFA’s general secretary.  Not a Bazaar  Valcke confirmed he’d sent an e-mail to Warner saying Qatar
“bought” the 2022 World Cup when it beat competitors including
the U.S. to sports most-watched tournament. Valcke later issued
a statement saying he meant Qatar used its vast resources to
“to heavily promote their bid all around the world in a very
efficient manner.”  “Listen gentlemen, I accepted to have a press conference
with you alone here,” Blatter said. “I respect you. Please
respect me. We are not in a bazaar here, we are in FIFA House.”  Qatar denied claims that it bought votes from FIFA members
before it was the surprise selection to host the  World Cup .
Blatter said there were no grounds to revisit the bidding.  “I believe that the decision which we took for the World
Cup 2022 was done exactly in the same pattern and environment
that we have made the decision in 2018,” he said.  The corruption scandal has put FIFA’s sponsors on edge,
the head of European sponsorship at former FIFA partner
MasterCard Inc. said.  ‘Edge of Our Chairs’  “What I certainly see is that it has certainly woken a few
people up and it puts us always on the edge of our chairs to
ensure that when we do these partnerships we look at the whole
package,” Paul Meulendijk, head of sponsorship at MasterCard
Europe, said in an interview in  London .  Amid its concerns, Coca-Cola, the world’s largest soft-
drink maker, said it had “every expectation that FIFA will
resolve this situation in an expedient and thorough manner.”  Adidas AG (ADS) , the second-largest sporting-goods maker, said
“the negative tenor of the public debate around FIFA at the
moment is neither good for football nor for FIFA and its
partners.”  Emirates, the world’s biggest airline by international
traffic, said the company, “ like all football fans around the
world, is disappointed with the issues that are currently
surrounding the administration of this sport.”  It hoped these issues “will be resolved as soon as
possible and the outcome will be in the interest of the game and
sport in general.”  Major Change  Patrick Nally, a consultant who brokered Coca-Cola’s
original deal with FIFA in 1976, said the crisis is similar to
one that engulfed the  International Olympic Committee  over a
bribery scandal that centered on  Salt Lake City ’s bid for the
2002  Winter Games . Several officials were expelled and the IOC
was forced to strengthen its ethics code.  “Is this a moment when major change has to come? They’ve
got absolutely no choice -- it has to come,” Nally said in an
interview.”  FIFA has faced several allegations since the vote on the
2018 and 2022 events. Former English Football Association
chairman  David Triesman  said four voters, including Warner, had
engaged in “unethical and improper” behavior in the voting for
the 2018 World Cup, which was won by  Russia . The Sunday Times
newspaper made separate claims against Qatar, saying it bribed
two officials with $1.5 million. Blatter said an inquiry failed
to prove any wrongdoing.  Qatar, Bin Hammam, Warner and the accused men deny the
allegations.  Personalities  Blatter said he could vouch only for his own conduct, not
that of the others that sit on FIFA’s decision-making body. He
also promised to strengthen FIFA’s disciplinary mechanism.  “I have to deal with personalities that are there and I
deal with them and I try to do the best out of it,” he said,
explaining that he doesn’t select the officials, who are voted
onto the executive committee by their regional governing bodies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Zurich at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 