-- 
FIFA’s Valcke Says He Sent E-Mail Saying Qatar Bought World Cup Rights

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-30T16:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/fifa-s-valcke-says-he-sent-e-mail-saying-qatar-bought-world-cup-rights.html
FIFA  General Secretary Jerome Valcke
today confirmed he sent an e-mail to another official with
soccer’s governing body in which he said Qatar “bought” its
surprise selection for the 2022 soccer World Cup.  Vice President Jack Warner revealed Valcke’s e-mail after
he and Mohamed  Bin Hammam , the Qatari head of soccer in  Asia ,
were suspended by FIFA. Warner and Bin Hammam, who until
yesterday was a challenger to Sepp Blatter’s FIFA presidency,
are being investigated over claims they offered $40,000 to
Caribbean voters to choose Bin Hammam. Valcke later released a
statement saying he was implying the world’s biggest exporter of
liquefied natural gas used its funds to “to heavily promote
their bid all around the world in a very efficient manner.”  The e-mail supplied to the media by Warner and typed by
Valcke referred to Bin Hammam and Blatter by their initials, MBH
and JSB.  “For MBH, I never understood why he was running,” Valcke
wrote. “If really he thought he had a chance or just being an
extreme way to express how much he does not like anymore JSB. Or
he thought you can buy FIFA as they bought the”  World Cup .  Valcke, FIFA’s highest non-elected official, had earlier
told reporters in Zurich that he sent the message. He was
attending a meeting held by the North and Central American
soccer body Concacaf, some of whose members are alleged to have
accepted money from Bin Hammam.  “I have at no time made, or was intending to make, any
reference to any purchase of votes or similar unethical
behavior,” Valcke said in the statement. “I would also like to
clarify that there is, as I said yesterday, no investigation
open at FIFA regarding the 2022 FIFA World Cup host election.”  Selected Parts  Valcke said Warner had only published selected parts of the
e-mail, and also denied the  Concacaf  president’s claims that he
influenced FIFA’s ethics panel’s decision to suspend him.  “It is fully incorrect -- and quite disappointing -- to
say that I have an influence on the FIFA Ethics Committee and
its proceedings,” he said. “I have never attended any of the
meetings of this committee.”  Qatar’s World Cup bid team, which has already issued one
1,700 word statement denying previous vote-buying allegations,
said it would be contacting Valcke about his comments.  “Qatar 2022 categorically deny any wrong doing in
connection with their winning bid,” the bid committee said in a
statement. “We are urgently seeking clarification from FIFA
about the statement from their General Secretary. In the
meantime we are taking legal advice to consider our options.”  Bin Hammam said he didn’t know why Valcke made the claims.  “You would have to ask  Jerome Valcke  what he was thinking.
I don’t know why he has said that,” Bin Hammam, 62, told the
British Broadcasting Corp. “If I was paying money for Qatar you
also have to ask the 13 people who voted for Qatar.”  FIFA had already been trying to fend off allegations of
improper conduct by its decision-making body during the bidding
process for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups that ended with sport’s
most-watched event being handed to  Russia  and desert-state
Qatar. Nine of the executive’s 24 members have now either faced
investigations or have been sanctioned for wrongdoing in the
past year.  “FIFA’s reputation is not at the highest, that’s clear,
and it’s sad,” Valcke said yesterday. “Definitely there needs
to be a change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net 
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
4104 or  cbandel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 