-- 
Foie Gras Burgers, Fizz Add Fun at Opera Tavern: London Dining

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-05-30T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/foie-gras-burgers-fizz-boost-fun-at-london-s-opera-tavern-richard-vines.html
Opera Tavern occupies a former pub in
Covent Garden, an area of London where you are more likely to
encounter tourist joints than the kind of restaurant to which
you ever would return. Hail the Opera Tavern.  There are exceptions. Rules is ideal for classic British
food and L’Atelier de  Joel Robuchon  serves superb French dishes
to diners with fat wallets. Clos Maggiore takes care of Provence
and Tuscany and the Ivy coddles celebrities. Actually, the Ivy
is good and you no longer need wait months for a table.  Opera Tavern, which specializes in Spanish and Italian-
influenced tapas, is more than just a welcome addition to Covent
Garden. It’s among the handful of best new London restaurants of
the past year or so, using great produce and skillful
preparation to produce delicious food, with a touch of
theatricality in the service that makes a meal there fun.  I can’t say I was bowled over the first time I walked in.
I’m a big fan of Barrafina -- Sam and Eddie Hart’s tapas bar in
Soho -- and didn’t expect too much from this upstart,
particularly when I saw that the chefs work in a corner and
there’s nothing to gaze at when you sit at the bar.  (By the way, it’s worth watching out for “Barrafina, a
Spanish Cookbook,” to be published on July 7 by Fig Tree.)  Fizzy Splash  Things look up at Opera Tavern when you see the menu, which
is as tempting as a shiny apple in the Garden of Eden. Hopes
leap after you order a bottle of Txakoli di Getaria, Ameztoi
2009. It’s a fizzy Basque wine that’s poured from a great
height, splashes into the glass (or nearby, at least) and is
best described as easy drinking because it’s escapist fun, as
undemanding as reality show “ The Only Way Is Essex .”  The menu starts with snacks such as crispy Iberico pig ears
and Venetian-style sardines before moving on to wonderful
skewers of meat: Moorish Iberico pork; Gressingham duck with
figs; and salt-marsh lamb and kidney with smoked paprika. They
cost 2.50 pounds ($4) to 3.50 pounds each, and are so moist and
rich you may care to order several.  I’d happily take two of each, but then I also would want a
minimum of two mini-Iberico pork and foie gras burgers. These
are of such magnificence, sharing is almost impossible. One
guest I took along said she’d try a bite of mine. Friendships
have foundered on less. I bought her one and she understood.  Silent Chefs  Word is out among  London  chefs about the fine food. One
time when I arrived, Claude Bosi, who holds two Michelin stars
at Hibiscus, and Anthony Demetre, with one each for Arbutus and
Wild Honey, were sitting at the counter. My guest that time was
Pierre Koffmann, who once held three stars at La Tante Claire.
The three of them were almost silenced by their enjoyment of the
cooking, though I did get a few words out of Koffmann later.  “I didn’t expect anything, to be honest,” he said. “In
 England , tapas can be a gimmick. But it was fantastic. I liked
everything. The mini-burger was brilliant, and the chorizo with
piquillo pepper was fantastic because the peppers were very
sweet, with the chorizo a bit spicy. All those pinchos, the
little skewers, were fantastic, too.  “All the food was properly seasoned. You can eat a tomato
salad -- if the seasoning isn’t good you can’t enjoy it. I say
to my chefs, ‘The difference between good food and bad is only a
pinch of salt.’ I go to  Spain  once or twice a year. In the
north, they’ve got fantastic food. But when you go to a place
like Opera Tavern, you don’t need to go to Barcelona for
tapas.”  All credit to executive chef Ben Tish and to James Thickett
who heads the kitchen, helped by sous-chef Ben Mulock. This new
establishment, a sister to Dehesa and Salt Yard, is a triumph. I
particularly enjoy the growing number of places such as Bocca di
Lupo, Spuntino and Barrafina, where you can sit and eat at the
bar. It’s a counter-revolution.  Opera Tavern, 23 Catherine Street, London, WC2B 5JS.
Information: +44-20-7836-3680 or  http://www.operatavern.co.uk/   The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? 50 pounds a head, including wine.  Sound level? Not quiet: about 75 decibels and up.  Inside tip? The best seats are at the bar.  Special feature? Basque wine.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Ideal.  Rating? ***  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 