-- 
French Senate to Debate Shale Law Allowing ‘Scientific’ Fracking

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-30T15:55:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/french-senate-to-debate-shale-law-allowing-scientific-fracking.html
French Senators will start debating
June 1 a proposed law that would ban explorers in  France  from
using hydraulic fracturing to extract oil and gas from shale
rock except for “scientific projects.”  The bill is different from one passed May 11 at the
National Assembly under which explorers using the technique,
known as fracking, would face fines and jail and the
cancellation of their exploration permits.  Projects allowed under the Senate proposal would aim to
“evaluating hydraulic fracturing or alternative techniques,”
according to the lawmakers’  website . Public inquiries would have
to approve of the experiments and a specially created commission
overseen by the government would regulate the work. It isn’t
clear whether companies could carry out the research.  Hydraulic fracturing, widely used in  North America , uses a
mixture of water, sand and chemicals injected under high
pressure to break dense rock to release oil and gas trapped
within. Green groups and politicians led protests across France,
saying drilling wells and fracturing the underground rock could
cause environmental damage. French Environment Minister Nathalie
Kosciusko-Morizet has said she backs the ban.  The Senate proposal could be modified during debate and
voted on as early as June 1. A parliamentary commission will
have to agree on language of the law if the bills in the lower
and upper houses aren’t the same.  Prison, Fines  The Senate proposal, like the National Assembly, allows for
the possibility of canceling permits already granted to
companies including  Total SA (FP) ,  Vermilion Energy Inc. (VET)  and  Toreador
Resources Corp. (TRGL)  if they plan to use hydraulic fracturing.
Explorers using the method would face a 75,000-euro ($108,000)
fine and a year in prison.  The French oil companies’ association Union Francaise des
Industries Petrolieres has said it supports pilot projects to
evaluate the technology.  The National Assembly bill and Senate proposal require
energy companies to submit a report on what techniques they plan
to use in their search for hydrocarbons. If they aim to use
fracking, their permits will be canceled.  Toreador last quarter planned to drill the first of three
wells at the Chateau Thierry permit outside Paris to explore for
shale oil, while Vermilion Energy was planning to fracture shale
in three existing wells after exploration last year, the
government and companies have said.  Total holds the southern French Montelimar permit for shale
gas while  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA has had talks with Schuepbach Energy LLC
on taking a stake in two permits the company holds in southern
France to explore for unconventional gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  