-- 
Funds Revive Agriculture Bets as Drought, Floods Hurt Crops, Demand Grows

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-30T09:21:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/funds-revive-agriculture-bets-as-drought-floods-hurt-crops-demand-grows.html
Funds boosted bets on rising
agricultural prices for the first time in four weeks, led by
rebounds in holdings of wheat and soybeans, as extreme weather
threatened to limit output as global demand increases.  Speculators raised their net-long positions in 11 U.S. farm
goods by 8.9 percent to 723,658 futures and options contracts in
the week ended May 24, government data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The increase was the first since April 26. A broader
measure of commodity holdings also advanced last week, with gold
up 7.1 percent and crude oil gaining 1.9 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index climbed for
the second straight week as droughts lingered in China and
 Europe  while excess moisture delayed planting in the U.S. and
 Canada . Last week, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley
signaled a bullish outlook for commodities, raising their
forecasts for crude-oil prices by more than 20 percent.  “After the unwinding in the past few weeks, we are seeing
interest come back in commodities that have strong
fundamentals,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps oversee
$17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,  Alabama .
“The planting of grains in U.S. has been affected because of
weather conditions. As long as the global growth story is intact
and the fundamentals remain strong, we will see interest in
commodities.”  Corn, Silver  Corn and silver futures have more than doubled in the past
year, while wheat, cotton, sugar and gasoline are up more than
50 percent on rising demand from  China  to  Brazil . Global food
prices have risen in nine of the past 10 months, touching a
record in February, according to the  United Nations .  The global recovery from a recession that followed the 2008
financial crisis “is gaining strength and is becoming more
self-sustained,” the Group of Eight leaders said May 27 after a
summit in Deauville,  France .  China, the world’s biggest user of commodities from cotton
to zinc, will expand 9.9 percent this quarter, outpacing this
year’s first two quarters, a Bloomberg survey of economists
showed. In the U.S., the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
final index of consumer sentiment rose to a three-month high of
74.3 in May from 69.8 in April.  The net-long position of funds across 18 U.S. commodity
futures and options jumped 7.6 percent to 1.17 million contracts
in the week ended May 24, after holdings plunged 27 percent in
previous three weeks, data compiled by Bloomberg from the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  ‘Little Pause’  Investors poured $702.8 million into commodity funds in the
week ended May 25, the first increase in three weeks, according
to EPFR Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based researcher. The
previous three weeks had outflows totaling $5.5 billion.  “There was a little pause in the steady drumbeat of
uninspiring macroeconomic data,”  Brad Durham , an EPFR managing
director, said May 27 in a telephone interview.  Wheat prices surged 75 percent in the past year on the
Chicago Board of Trade as droughts and floods limited global
output. The International Grains Council on May 26 cut its
estimate for world production to 667.3 million metric tons from
an April forecast of 672.2 million. About 54 percent of U.S.
spring wheat was planted as of May 22, below the five-year
average of 89 percent, the government estimates.  Hedge funds  increased bullish wagers on wheat futures and
options traded in Chicago by 155 percent in the week ended May
24, the most since the week ended Dec. 7, government data show.
Wheat futures for July delivery closed May 27 at $8.1975 a
bushel in  Chicago , up 1.6 percent for the week.  ‘Back On’ Commodities  “The game is back on” in commodities, said Ron Lawson, a
managing director at Logic Advisors, a commodity consultant in
Sonoma,  California . “You have a weather situation that’s bad in
a lot of ways. The agriculture component of the market is pretty
loaded for any kind of up move.”  U.S. farmers are running out of time to plant this year’s
corn crop after wet weather swamped fields from  North Dakota  to
 Ohio  and may switch acres to soybeans, which can be sown until
late June. Parts of the Midwest, including Illinois and  Missouri ,
received more than double the normal amount of rainfall in the
past 30 days, according to the  National Weather Service .  Some relief from the tight supply may come from  Russia ’s
decision to let its grain-export ban expire on July 1. The ban
imposed in August because of a drought-hit harvest helped drive
up global food costs. In  India , the second-biggest wheat grower,
the monsoon landed in the southern states two days early,
increasing optimism that the rains will boost crops.  Oil Holdings Gain  Speculators increased holdings in oil futures and options
by 4,112 contracts to 225,677 contracts, halting a three-week
slide of 79,553, or 26 percent, CFTC data show. Net-long
positions in gold increased by 13,130 contracts to 198,515,
after four straight weeks of declines that totaled 43,192
contracts, or 19 percent.  Not all commodity holdings increased. Net-long positions
dropped in cocoa, hogs, gasoline and copper, while speculators
remained bearish with a net-short position in natural gas.  Managed-money funds held net-long positions in silver
totaling 15,226 contracts, down for a fifth straight week and
the lowest since February 2010. While silver prices are down 24
percent from a 31-year high of $49.845 an ounce on April 25, the
metal has still doubled from a year ago, more than the 27
percent gain for gold.  ‘Catching Up’  “As a long-term investment, gold still has some catching
up to do with silver,” said Matt Zeman, a strategist at
Kingsview Financial in Chicago. “Silver still looks iffy. Gold
is a safer bet, and you’re less likely to get shook out of the
market in huge swings like we’ve seen in silver.”  Gold futures closed at $1,537.30 an ounce on May 27 in  New
York , near a record of $1,577.40 reached on May 2.  “The big players like Goldman Sachs are luring people back
into commodities,” Zeman said. “A weaker dollar, euro-zone
debt issues, and a slowing U.S. economy are going to keep a
floor under gold and silver.”  Twenty-three of the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI
index are higher than a year earlier. The weaker dollar is also
boosting demand for commodities. The Dollar Index, which tracks
the U.S. currency against those of six trading partners, has
dropped 13 percent in the past 12 months.  “The general trend is higher for precious metals,
industrial metals and agriculture,” said  Peter Sorrentino , a
senior portfolio manager at Cincinnati-based Huntington Asset
Advisors, which manages $14.8 billion. “When you have an
improving standard of living in so many parts of the world,
demand will continue to move higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  