-- 
German Power Prices Rise as Country Confirms Nuclear Exit Plans

-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 
2011-05-30T14:08:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/german-power-prices-rise-as-country-confirms-nuclear-exit-plans.html
German electricity for next year
jumped to its highest price in almost two months after the
country’s government decided to keep its seven nuclear plants
halted and discontinue the  power source  by 2022.  Baseload power for 2012 in  Europe ’s biggest market, rose 1
euro, or 1.7 percent, to 60.55 euros ($86.46) a megawatt hour at
3:20 p.m. Berlin time, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg. Gains slowed from Friday, when the contract added 2
percent following reports the country’s seven oldest reactors
will be permanently shut.  “The German decision had been expected and priced in even
before the first reports that idled reactors will remain shut
became available,” Michal Czaplinski, a Prague-based senior
trader at  Ezpada  said by phone today.  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition plans to exit atomic
energy by 2022 and won’t allow seven reactors idled for safety
checks to start after the disaster at a Japanese nuclear plant
in March stoked safety concerns.  Germany  will also maintain the
tax on nuclear fuel. The seven idled plants, account for more
than 25 percent of Germany’s installed nuclear capacity.  The German next-year contract, a regional benchmark, was
0.2 euro lower than French electricity for next year, according
to broker prices. The Czech next-year contract, which typically
tracks German prices because of heavy cross-border flows, was
0.7 percent higher at 57.70 euros.  Germany was today importing 3,174 megawatts from 1 p.m. to
2 p.m. from  France , Europe’s second-largest power market, and
1,252 megawatts from the  Czech Republic , according to data on
the website of European grid group  Entsoe .  Bloomberg tracks power prices from brokers including  GFI
Group Inc. (GFIG) , ICAP Plc, Spectron Group Ltd., Tradition Financial
Services and Tullet Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net  with assistance from:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  