-- 
German E.Coli Outbreak Blamed for 10 Deaths

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-05-30T09:29:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/german-e-coli-outbreak-blamed-for-10-deaths.html
Ten people have died in the largest-
ever E.coli outbreak in Germany,  Deutsche Presse-Agentur 
reported, as European regulators tracked illnesses linked to
contaminated cucumbers imported from  Spain .  Cases of  hemolytic uremic syndrome , a type of kidney damage
caused by the bacterium, have occurred in Germany,  Sweden ,
Denmark, the U.K., the Netherlands and  Austria , according to the
 European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control . Most involve
people who are from, or traveled to, northern Germany, including
Hamburg, northern  Lower Saxony  and Schleswig-Holstein, the
Stockholm-based agency said.  There have been four deaths in Schleswig-Holstein, three in
Lower Saxony, two in Hamburg and one in Bremen, DPA reported
today. The  Robert Koch Institute , the German government’s
disease-control agency, said it could only confirm three deaths.  Spanish authorities suspended the activities of two
distributors in the provinces of Almeria and Malaga that are
thought to have shipped the contaminated produce, the European
Commission said in a statement May 27. An investigation is under
way, and samples were taken from soil, water and products, the
commission said.  The outbreak is one of the largest ever worldwide, and is a
record for  Germany , the ECDC said in a statement May 27. The
Koch institute advised last week against eating raw tomatoes,
cucumbers and lettuce in northern Germany.  Contaminated Food  The bacterium Escherichia coli is spread through
contaminated food and water or contact with animals, and can
produce toxins that cause human disease. Cattle and other
ruminants can be healthy carriers of the bacterium, which can be
spread through fecal contamination, the  ECDC  said.  Past outbreaks have been linked to contaminated raw milk
and cheese, undercooked beef, fresh produce such as sprouts,
spinach and lettuce, and walnuts, the agency said.  E.Coli can cause acute gastroenteritis, accompanied by mild
fever and in some cases vomiting and bloody diarrhea, according
to the ECDC. While most people recover within five to seven
days, the toxins can destroy red blood cells, causing the
potentially fatal hemolytic uremic syndrome. The syndrome is
most common in children, according to the U.S.  National
Institutes of Health .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 