-- 
Germany Becomes Net Power Importer From France After Atomic Halt

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-30T09:30:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/germany-becomes-net-power-importer-from-france-after-atomic-halt.html
France  became a net exporter of
electricity to  Germany  last month after the Japanese atomic
disaster and subsequent shutdown of German reactors reversed an
electricity trading trend between  Europe ’s biggest markets.  In April, France was a net exporter of power to Germany for
the first time since the summer months of June, July and August
last year, according to data published on the  website  of  Reseau
de Transport d’Electricite , the grid operator owned by
Electricite de France SA, Europe’s biggest power generator.  Overall, French power imports from Germany outstripped
exports last year. Power trading between the countries may
change following German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s decision in
March to shut the country’s seven oldest reactors and today’s
announcement of an exit from the  power source  by 2022.  EDF operates France’s 58 nuclear reactors which allow the
country to be an net power exporter to European neighbors and
provide relatively cheap electricity to customers at home. The
state-controlled utility is developing a new atomic plant at
Flamanville in Normandy and has plans for another in northern
France at Penly. Since the Fukushima disaster in March, French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who is facing an election next year,
has vowed to continue to invest in the atomic industry.  France, which relies on nuclear plants for about three-
quarters of its power needs, exported a net 509 gigawatt hours
to Germany last month compared with net imports of 618 gigawatts
during the same month last year, RTE said. In the most recent
month, Germany joined Belgium, Italy,  Spain , Switzerland and the
U.K. in relying on France for more power imports than exports,
the data indicates.  Ambivalent Public  Unlike in Germany, polls have shown the French to be more
ambivalent about nuclear energy. A TNS Sofres poll in March
indicated just 19 percent of respondents wanting a rapid
reversal of the country’s reliance on atomic power.  In recent years, EDF has increasingly been forced to rely
on electricity from abroad to meet demand during peak periods
such as heat waves and cold snaps. France was a net power
exporter in 2010 to  Italy , the U.K. and Switzerland, and a net
importer from Belgium, Spain and Germany, RTE documents show.  EDF Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  is aiming to
raise French atomic output this year compared to 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  