-- 
Glittering Gold Need Not Set Off a Panic Over Inflation: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-05-30T04:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/glittering-gold-need-not-set-off-a-panic-over-inflation-view.html
Have you been asked about gold
lately? Has someone tried to explain to you that the precious
metal’s 27 percent increase in dollar terms during the past year
signals ominous things? Runaway inflation... economic panic...
infinite instability...  Well, instead of wasting your breath, or giving up and
walking away, direct the concerned party to a corner of the
report released this month by the World Gold Council, the gold-
mining industry’s main trade group.  Buried amid the standard reportese is a statistical review
of worldwide gold demand in 2011’s first quarter. The data show
that gold’s ascent is being driven by extraordinary demand from
 India  and China, where rising prosperity is making it easier for
millions of people to buy gold in all its forms, particularly
jewelry.  The WGC estimates that Indian households own more than
18,000 metric tons of gold, the largest holding on the planet.
(By contrast, U.S. official gold reserves total about 8,100
metric tons.) Indian consumers aren’t done buying. In this
year’s first quarter, they purchased an additional 206 tons of
gold jewelry and 85 tons of gold bars and coins. China’s
appetite is growing rapidly and could soon overtake India’s.  Or come at it another way: Strip out Chinese and Indian
purchases, and the rest of the world isn’t nearly so vibrant.
Some new buyers have shown up; some prior speculators are
cashing out.  Price Prediction  This is not the company line. Earlier this month, Sun
Zhaoxue, the president of  China  National Gold Group Corp., the
country’s largest gold mine, predicted that gold prices will
stay high because of the dollar’s depreciation and "intensifying
geopolitical risks." His measured version of the safe-refuge
thesis can be heard in much shriller tones on late-night
advertisements for gold coins.  Yes, price surges for gold don’t always reflect genuine
fears and the need for disaster-proof investments.  And, yes, gold’s price may continue to climb this year. A
recent Bloomberg News survey of 31 analysts, investors and gold-
mine operators found respondents, on average, predicting a year-
end price of $1,750 an ounce, up significantly from recent
levels of about $1,530.  If such a rise occurs, however, it’s likely to reflect
normal public demand for a shiny commodity, rather than a far-
sighted warning to the world’s central bankers. 