-- 
Greek Day of Reckoning Looms in Ponzi Europe: Mario I. Blejer

-- B y   M a r i o   I .   B l e j e r
-- 
2011-05-30T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/greek-day-of-reckoning-looms-in-ponzi-europe-mario-i-blejer.html
One of the undeniable features of the
European debt crisis is the tendency to obscure, verbally and
politically, the real issues at play. Euphemisms, statistical
gimmicks, meaningless institutional squabbling, undecipherable
acronyms, and plain double talk proliferate as part of the
debate.  In my experience as central-bank governor in  Argentina 
during the worst financial crisis in our history, at the
beginning of this century, I learned how useful it is to cut
through the fog in order to rebuild credibility and to allow a
more lucid evaluation of the outlook. While there are few
similarities between Greece’s present debt situation and
Argentina’s in 2002, it is possible to reduce the recent talk of
a default to four basic issues and make some predictions.  The nature of the debt problem in peripheral  Europe  is
structural. Since it doesn’t reflect a temporary liquidity
squeeze, the approach adopted so far can’t resolve it. The
strategy in progress has been to pile new debt upon the existing
stock. New loans are used to pay old debt, in addition to
financing remaining fiscal gaps. This is why the  Ponzi scheme 
analogy is appropriate. And while the pyramid is growing, the
share of peripheral debt held by state-owned institutions also
keeps getting bigger. This means that when it all finally
collapses, it is the taxpayers of Europe, and the world, that
will bear the full cost.  Growing Pyramid  The pyramid may continue to grow for a while, particularly
if the cement used is public funds. But it is an unstable
construction because European bailouts are becoming politically
questionable and because throwing  International Monetary Fund 
money into the Ponzi scheme is raising objections. This strategy
is only making the situation worse.  The IMF has performed badly in this crisis. Its programs
are bound to fail because their design is profoundly flawed.
They contain two basic blunders. First, they have wrongly
assumed that peripheral countries could return to the voluntary
 capital market  next year. Today we know that Greece’s ability to
borrow 30 billion euros ($43 billion) in 2012 is nothing but a
fantasy. The programs, therefore, remain unfinanced. And the
situation promises to be even more difficult in 2013 if the
perverse permanent-bailout mechanism being designed is adopted.  Second, programs have been based on dreamy debt
sustainability scenarios in which countries outgrow their debt
under severe fiscal tightening. But since these austerity plans
cause deep recessions, the debt/gross-domestic-product ratios
increase over time in all peripheral nations. How this squares
with sustainability, and how the macroeconomics add up, is hard
to comprehend.  Asset Sales  One proposed solution has been the sale of state assets.
But currently this would result, at best, in fire sales. If
there is low demand for Greek debt, why would investors want the
country’s equity? The Latin American experience is that
privatization has been, in general, good for efficiency and
productivity, but never resolved a fiscal structural imbalance.  All this shouldn’t detract from the need for fiscal and
structural adjustments as part of a long-term solution. But
there is no long-term stable solution without debt relief,
which, in plain English, means default. There are many ways of
defaulting, but it is evident that without a significant haircut
for bond investors there is no way out. The real question isn’t
whether, but when and how.  Market Access   In this context, two issues arise: regaining market access
and contagion. On the first, experience indicates that it is
easier to regain market access after a well-coordinated debt-
burden reduction than it is before. The example of Uruguay comes
to mind. And Argentina, with still pending concerns, could
access the market today, if it wished, at half the Greek spread
and below  Portugal ’s and Ireland’s. Another more recent example
is the Vienna Initiative, a coordinated strategy used in Eastern
Europe to prevent the withdrawal of cross-border banks during
the financial crisis. It could be adapted to the periphery to
help with a debt restructuring.  Regarding contagion, it is undeniable a  credit event  in
 Greece  would cause political contagion in Ireland and Portugal.
But once it happened, it may even relieve the pressure on  Spain 
and other potentially compromised sovereigns. Contagion through
the deterioration of bank balance sheets should be addressed by
recapitalizing affected lenders within a program financed by the
resources directed today to increase the pyramid of debt.  Crisis Management   The institutional crisis-management setting is in disarray:
The European Union wouldn’t oppose a default (if it could use a
different word); the IMF demands financial assurances for next
year; and the  European Central Bank  is ardently opposed to any
form of debt relief. The most likely scenario is that the ECB
will, again, make a U-turn before reaching the abyss (as it did
with secondary bond-market purchases). The ECB threats to cut
Greek banks from access to liquidity in case of default are very
dangerous, and ultimately not credible, because it could trigger
an accelerated bank run and detonate a banking crisis, including
the possibility of a deposit freeze similar to the one that was
such a disaster in Argentina. This would have more potential to
damage the euro than any credit event.  As for the Argentine experience, it is important to remark
that, while without the default the economy wouldn’t have been
able to recover as it did, the experiences aren’t directly
comparable. Argentina was able to devalue its currency and was
also helped by a big improvement in terms of trade and
significant fiscal adjustment. But there is an important lesson.
Postponing inevitable actions increase the cost of eventual
adjustment. At the time of the default, Argentina’s output had
already declined by more than 10 percent. A timely and
friendlier negotiation aimed at obtaining debt relief would have
saved the country several years of pain.  The current European strategy, if there is one, seems to be
to delay the day of reckoning. It could, however, be useful, if
the time gained is utilized to prepare for the inevitable
default. Just muddling through, in the mist of a cacophony of
contradictory statements that further erode the credibility of
the crisis-management framework, only creates uncertainty and is
a recipe for major disaster.  (Mario I. Blejer is a former governor of Argentina’s
central bank, was a senior adviser to the International Monetary
Fund and is currently the vice chairman of  Banco Hipotecario SA. (BHIP) 
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mario Blejer at  admin@blejer.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Shipley at   djshipley@bloomberg.net  