-- 
Illinois Effort to Revamp Pensions Stalls

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-05-30T20:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/illinois-effort-to-revamp-pensions-stalls-in-face-of-opposition.html
Illinois  lawmakers today postponed
action on a bill that would have forced teachers and state
employees to pay as much as three times more for their
retirement benefits.  Following opposition from public workers and their unions,
Democratic House Speaker Michael Madigan, House Republican
leader Tom Cross and the Civic Committee of the Commercial Club
of Chicago announced they would meet in the next three months
with the aim of bringing the bill back during the legislative
session that begins in late October.  The measure sent to the full House last week was designed
to reduce the state’s annual retirement costs and cut its
unfunded pension liability of at least $80 billion by creating a
three-tiered plan. Employees would be able to stay in the
current program at a higher cost, take a lesser benefit at a
lower cost or join a self-managed plan similar to a 401(k).  “We are absolutely committed to reforming Illinois’ public
pension system for current employees,” Madigan, Cross and Civic
Committee President Tyrone Fahner said in a joint statement.  “It must be done to stabilize our systems and address
long-term financial issues for both the public employee pension
systems and state government,” they said.  A coalition of unions attacked the measure, saying it
undermines working families and violates Illinois constitutional
protections of pension benefits.  ‘Unconstitutional’ Plan  Michael Carrigan, president of the Illinois AFL-CIO, said
the problem isn’t the average annual $32,000 pension that
employees receive. It’s lawmakers’ failure to fund the system
adequately, he said last week, calling the proposed changes
“unreasonable and unconstitutional.”  Lawmakers are trying to complete their budget session
before tomorrow’s midnight deadline. The pension bill was part
of the effort to reduce the state’s overall costs. It wasn’t
brought to a vote in the House.  Public workers in  Colorado ,  South Dakota  and  Minnesota  are
suing their states, which are among 18 that want to increase
employee contributions, raise the  retirement age  or curb cost-
of-living increases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Springfield at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  