-- 
India’s Lanco “Open” to Deals as Solar Industry Poised for Consolidation

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-30T11:26:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/india-s-lanco-open-to-deals-as-solar-industry-poised-for-consolidation.html
Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) , set to emerge
as India’s biggest builder of solar  power plants , said it’s
willing to consider overseas acquisitions with the industry
poised for consolidation.  “There’s a shake-up happening in the solar industry,”
said V. Saibaba, chief executive officer of Lanco Solar Pvt., a
unit of India’s largest non-state power producer. “If any
interesting opportunities come our way, we’re definitely open.”  Clean-energy companies are likely to become the most active
targets in merger and acquisitions for groups seeking cheap
assets to enter the fragmented industry, Allen Wells, an analyst
at Morgan Stanley, said in a May 16 note. Last month  Total SA (FP) ,
 Europe ’s third-largest oil company, made the largest purchase
ever of a solar cell and module maker with a $1.38 billion deal
for 60 percent of  SunPower Corp. (SPWRA) , said Nathaniel Bullard, solar
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Smaller companies may come under pressure to find buyers in
Europe, where tariffs paid to renewable energy generators are
falling, and  China , whose equipment suppliers face declining
prices, Saibaba said.  “It will be difficult for many of the small companies to
go to the next level,” Saibaba said in an May 27 interview in
Gurgaon, near the capital of  New Delhi .  Overseas Contracts  Hyderabad-based Lanco is building two of India’s largest
solar thermal plants and its biggest photovoltaic plant. Solar
thermal technology uses sunlight to heat liquids that produce
steam for generators, while photovoltaic panels directly convert
sunlight into an electrical current.  The company aims to build 500 megawatts of solar capacity
annually in India by 2014, is partnering with  Spain ’s Initec
Energia for technology, and is looking for work overseas as a
contractor, Saibaba said. It added orders for 43 billion rupees
($954 million) of solar projects in the financial year ended
March 31, the company said in a filing today.  “We see a lot of growth so we’re starting to build our
capabilities,” Saibaba said. “We have an edge,” because of
the 4,000-employee engineering and construction division of the
parent company, which has built coal and hydropower plants,
roads, and an airport, he said.  Lanco Solar has opened an office in  London  seeking
contracts to build solar plants in the U.S.,  Canada ,  Italy ,
 France  and Germany, he said.  Technology Risk  India ’s industrial groups may seek to acquire technology
that could be brought back to develop a lower-cost manufacturing
base at home, said Santosh Kamath, head of KPMG India Ltd.’s
renewable energy practice, who estimates that almost 75 percent
of what’s necessary to build a solar thermal plant today can
already be made in the south Asian nation.  “Acquisitions are a possibility, but the only thing is
timing,” Kamath said by telephone from Mumbai. “Once you buy a
company, you’re committing yourself to a certain technology.”  India companies may wait a year or two to see which
technologies emerge as winners in the new sector before buying
equipment manufacturers, he said. In the meantime, some are
already tying up partnerships with European companies to make
supporting infrastructure, like transmissions towers and solar
mirrors, he said.  Financing Deadline  Lanco won a permit to build one of India’s first and
largest solar thermal projects in a December auction. It faces a
July 9 deadline to get financing from lenders.  “We’re very close,” Saibaba said. “We have an advantage.
We’re financially strong as a company.” The parent company had
cash and near-cash of 19.5 billion rupees as of Sept. 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lanco will build the 100-megawatt plant based on Initec
Energia’s parabolic trough-technology that will allow it to
store 4.5 hours of electricity in molten salts, Saibaba said.
Lanco will also build a second, 100-megawatt for KVK Energy &
Infrastructure Pvt., according to an Initec statement on its
website.  Lanco is investing $300 million in a factory that has begun
producing 50-megawatts a year of modules and will expand to make
80-megawatts of ingots, wafers and cells, as well as 1,250
metric tons of polysilicon by 2012, he said. Later, the company
may try to make an alternative raw material to polysilicon
called metallurgical-grade silicon in India, Saibaba said.  Lanco and  Germany ’s Juwi Holding AG won an order last week
to build a 75-megawatt plant for Maharashtra State Power
Generation Co., India’s largest photovoltaic facility to date.
It’s scheduled to complete a 35-megawatt photovoltaic plant in
western Gujarat state as early as October, Saibaba said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 