-- 
Lithuanian Economic Growth Second-Fastest in EU

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-05-30T11:25:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/lithuanian-first-quarter-economic-growth-second-fastest-in-eu.html
Lithuania ’s economic growth
accelerated to an annual 6.9 percent in the first quarter, the
second-fastest in the European Union, driven by investments and
domestic demand.  The expansion compares with a 4.8 percent increase in the
fourth quarter, the Vilnius-based  statistics office  said in an
e-mailed statement today. The first-quarter figure matches the
preliminary estimate released on April 28. The economy expanded
a seasonally adjusted 3.5 percent from the previous quarter.  Lithuania, part of the Baltic region along with Estonia and
 Latvia  that suffered the world’s deepest recession in 2009, is
benefiting from rising demand for its exports that account for
about two-thirds of output. Foreign sales and recovering
domestic demand have pushed economic growth to the fastest rate
in the EU after Estonia.  "The recovery continued to broaden," said  Annika Lindblad ,
an economist with Nordea Markets. "Investments got a boost and
an encouraging sign for the rest of the year was the strong 5.5
percent growth in private consumption, increasing confidence in
a recovery in domestic demand as well."  The bond yield on Lithuania’s 2015 dollar-denominated bond
fell 0.03 percentage points to 3.42 percent, the lowest on
record.  IMF Forecast Raised  The  International Monetary Fund  on May 19 raised its
economic-growth forecast for Lithuania to 6 percent this year
from 4.6 percent. The  Finance Ministry  estimates the economy may
grow 5.8 percent this year, betting on an export-driven
expansion as growth in the rest of  Europe  propels shipments of
Lithuanian products to record highs.  Household consumption grew an annual 5.5 percent in the
first quarter and capital formation jumped 41 percent from a
year earlier on investments in real estate, equipment and
machinery, the statistics office said.  Exports grew an annual 21.8 percent in the first quarter,
driven by sales of refined fuels, cars and fertilizer. The Orlen
Lietuva AB refinery, the nation’s biggest exporter, said crude
processing grew 27 percent in the period from last year.  Retail trade expanded an annual 20 percent in the first
three months of the year as consumers spent more on cars and
clothing. Car sales rose an annual 83 percent in the period
driven by demand from neighboring Belarus as the country
prepares to unify its tariffs for vehicle imports from July 1
with other countries in a customs union that also includes
Russia and  Kazakhstan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 