-- 
Fukushima Debacle Risks Chernobyl ‘Dead Zone’ as Radiation in Soil Soars

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-05-30T10:47:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/japan-risks-chernobyl-like-dead-zone-as-fukushima-soil-radiation-soars.html
Radioactive soil in pockets of areas
near Japan’s crippled nuclear plant have reached the same level
as Chernobyl, where a “dead zone” remains 25 years after the
reactor in the former  Soviet Union  exploded.  Soil samples in areas outside the 20-kilometer (12 miles)
exclusion zone around the Fukushima plant measured more than
1.48 million becquerels a square meter, the standard used for
evacuating residents after the Chernobyl accident, Tomio Kawata,
a fellow at the  Nuclear Waste Management Organization of Japan ,
said in a research report published May 24 and given to the
government.  Radiation from the plant has spread over 600 square
kilometers (230 square miles), according to the report. The
extent of contamination shows the government must move fast to
avoid the same future for the area around Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant as Chernobyl, scientists said.
Technology has improved since the 1980s, meaning soil can be
decontaminated with chemicals or by planting crops to absorb
radioactive materials, allowing residents to return.  “We need to finish this treatment as quickly as possible,
within three years at most,” Tetsuo Iguchi, a specialist in
isotope analysis and radiation detection at Nagoya University in
central  Japan , said in a telephone interview. “If we take
longer, people will give up on returning to their homes.”  Soil Samples  Soil samples showed one site with radiation from  Cesium-137 
exceeding 5 million becquerels per square meter about 25
kilometers to the northwest of the Fukushima plant, according to
Kawata’s study. Five more sites about 30 kilometers from Dai-
Ichi showed radiation exceeding 1.48 million becquerels per
square meter.  When asked to comment on the report today, Tokyo Electric
spokesman Tetsuya Terasawa said the radiation levels are in line
with those found after a nuclear bomb test, which disperses
plutonium. He declined to comment further.  Japan’s government introduced a mandatory exclusion zone 20
kilometers around the plant following the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami that knocked out power leading to three reactor
meltdowns. Kawata’s study didn’t include samples from inside the
exclusion zone, where only government and  Tokyo  Electric staff
may enter.  The government in April ordered the evacuation of towns
including Iitate, Katsurao and Namie that are outside the 20-
kilometer zone after finding high levels of radiation.  ‘As Soon As Possible’  “Basically, the way in which the current zones have been
drawn up aren’t a concern in terms of the impact on health,”
said Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano. “Using Mr. Kawata’s
report as a guide, we want to do what we can to improve the
soil, so people can return as soon as possible.”  While the area containing soil pockets over 1.48 million
becquerels a square meter is smaller than around Chernobyl --600
square kilometers compared with 3,100 square kilometers -- the
level of contamination means soil needs to be cleaned or removed
before residents can return, Kawata said in his report.  “It might take about one or two years for people to return
to land outside the 20-kilometer zone,” the University of
Nagoya’s Iguchi said. “If we replace the soil, it is possible
for people to return even inside the zone.”  The “dead zone” around Chernobyl remains at 30
kilometers, Mykola Kulinich, Ukraine’s ambassador to Japan, said
in Tokyo on April 26, the 25th anniversary of the disaster.  Chernobyl Fallout  Belarus , which absorbed 80 percent of the fallout from the
Chernobyl explosion, estimates that 2 million, or 20 percent of
the population, was affected by the Chernobyl catastrophe, while
about 23 percent of the country’s land was contaminated,
according to a Belarus embassy website. About a fifth of the
country’s agricultural land has been rendered unusable, which
means some $700 million in losses each year, according to the
website.  Using crops was one solution being considered by Belarus
with the idea that grains harvested from contaminated areas
could then be processed to make ethanol. A study funded by a
philanthropy arm of  Heineken NV (HEIA)  found that radioactive elements
do not transfer into ethanol and this would allow Belarus to
become a major supplier of the liquid used to dilute gasoline to
the European Union.  Crop planting was planned in areas of “low-level”
radiation, Michael Rietveld, chief executive officer of
Ireland’s Greenfield Partners, which agreed with the Belarus
government in 2007 to develop an ethanol business project to
decontaminate the soil, said in an interview October 2009.  Crop Planting  “There are cows walking over this land now,” Rietveld
said in reference to Belarus. “People are living over there.
It’s not a dangerous venture to use crops in low-contaminated
areas. Most of the contamination is in the soil not the air.”  The global financial crisis hampered Greenfield’s fund
raising and the project closed last year after the Belarus
government expressed concerns about the Irish company’s ability
to attract financing.  Another solution for Fukushima may be chemical treatment of
the soil to allow cesium to be absorbed into porous crystals,
such as zeolite, which are more visible and simpler to remove,
the University of Nagoya’s Iguchi said.  Restoring the land may be more critical in Japan than
Belarus, where the population density is about 46 people per
square kilometer, according to United Nations data. That’s more
than seven times less than the metric for Japan, where 127.6
million people live on about 378,000 square kilometers.  Road Map  Restoring  land use  in Fukushima hinges on Tokyo Electric,
known as Tepco, ending the crisis at the nuclear station, where
three reactors went into meltdown following the earthquake and
tsunami that also left more than 23,000 people dead or missing.  The utility on April 17 set out a so-called road map to end
the crisis in six to nine months. Tepco said it expects to
achieve a sustained drop in radiation levels at the plant within
three months, followed by a cold shutdown, where core reactor
temperatures fall below 100 degrees Celsius.  The chance of Tepco achieving that goal is six or seven out
of 10, William Ostendorff, a member of the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, said at a hearing of the U.S. Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee earlier this week.  Tepco has yet to decide how to deal with the plant site,
Megumi Iwashita, a spokeswoman for the company said on May 26.  The most cost-effective solution may be to allow the cesium
to move down into the soil to decay, Kathryn Higley, a radiation
health physicist at  Oregon State University  in Corvallis, said
in a telephone interview. Cesium has a half-life of about 30
years, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  “They’re going to make decisions on an acre-by-acre basis
as to what’s going to happen to these facilities,” she said.
“The area around Chernobyl is now a nature park. When you move
100,000 people out of an area, nature does pretty well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  