-- 
Japan Stocks Swing Between Gains, Losses Amid Concern Recovery is Slowing

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-05-30T06:33:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/japanese-stocks-fall-as-yen-advances-versus-dollar-honda-sony-decline.html
Japanese stocks swung between gains
and losses amid speculation shares are oversold, and as comments
by the Group of Eight nations tempered concern that a U.S.
economic recovery is slowing.  Sony Corp., the maker of Bravia televisions, fell 2.1
percent after a report showed U.S. home-buying plunged more than
forecast and the yen advanced against the dollar. Honda Motor
Co., Japan’s No. 2 automaker, dropped 1.3 percent after hackers
accessed personal data of customers in Canada. Sumitomo Realty &
Development Co., Japan’s third-biggest developer, rallied 1.2
percent after being raised to “overweight” from “equal-
weight” at  Barclays Capital .  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.2 percent to 9,504.97
at the 3 p.m. close of trading in  Tokyo , extending a third
weekly drop. The broader Topix index slipped 0.2 percent to
823.68, with about four stocks advancing for every three that
declined.  “While there’s concern about data showing weakness in the
 U.S. economy  it’s not as if the recovery is stalling outright,”
said Hiroshi Fujimoto, a  fund manager  at Tokyo-based Shinkin
Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $3.9
billion. “Investors are pretty comfortable with the current
price level. When stocks rise, you get selling, and on the other
hand, people are buying on the dips.”  Tsunami, Earthquake Damage  The Topix has lost about 12 percent since the magnitude-9
earthquake and tsunami on March 11 that devastated  Japan ’s
northeast coast, crippling a nuclear power plant and disrupting
supply chains at companies from Toyota Motor Corp. to chipmaker
Renesas Electric Corp.  Companies in the Topix traded at an average 0.94 times
estimated book value. A price-to-book value below one means that
investors can theoretically buy companies for less than the
value of their assets.  “With the price-to-book ratio below one, stocks are
clearly cheap,” said Toshiyuki Kanayama, a market analyst at
Tokyo-based Monex Inc.  Sony dropped 2.1 percent to 2,122 yen after the Japanese
currency appreciated to as much as 80.72 against the dollar,
compared with 81.07 at the close of  stock trading  in Tokyo on
May 27. Toyota, the world’s biggest carmaker, lost 0.2 percent
to 3,330 yen. A stronger yen erodes the value of overseas sales
when repatriated.  Honda fell 1.3 percent to 3,030. The company last week said
the personal data of about 280,000 customers in  Canada  was
accessed by hackers. Separately, the automaker abandoned a plan
for a share buyback as its business prospects are unclear
because of the March 11 earthquake, the Nikkei newspaper
reported, without saying where it obtained the information.  Profit Decline  Pacific Metals Co., Japan’s top ferro-nickel producer,
slumped 4 percent to 554 yen after forecasting a drop in net
income. The company predicted profit will decline by three
quarters to 2.78 billion yen this fiscal year on plunging sales.  Stocks found support after the G-8 said on May 27 the
global recovery “is becoming more self-sustained,” in a
statement following a two-day summit in Deauville,  France . A
report the same day showed U.S. home buying plunged more than
forecast in April, a sign the industry that triggered the
recession continues to struggle.  Employers probably hired fewer workers in May and
manufacturing cooled as the jump in fuel costs and the effects
of Japan’s earthquake rippled through the U.S., economists said
before reports this week, adding to signs the recovery in the
world’s biggest economy may be slowing.  Among stocks that rose today, Sumitomo Realty gained 1.2
percent to 1,710 yen. Senshu Ikeda Holdings Inc., a lender,
jumped 3.9 percent to 107 yen after the company said it will
spend 31.2 billion yen to repurchase shares.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 