-- 
Jewish Heir Fights Restitution, Wants Museum to Keep Art

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-05-31T14:06:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/jewish-heir-fights-restitution-wants-museum-to-keep-grandfather-s-legacy.html
Thomas Hemer journeyed from  Nevada  to
Leipzig, the city where he was born 88 years ago, to fight for
the legacy of his grandfather, an Egyptologist of Jewish origin
forced to leave Germany after the Nazis came to power.  In 1937, Georg Steindorff sold his collection of ancient
artifacts to the department of  Leipzig University  that he led.
Hemer, his grandson, wants to stop the  Conference on Jewish
Material Claims Against Germany  from taking them from the
university museum, after a Berlin court  ruled on May 26  that the
sale was conducted under duress and thus invalid.  The 16-year legal battle pitted Leipzig University and
Hemer against the Claims Conference, which filed a claim for the
collection after German unification in 1990. In a restitution
case that confounds conventions, the Claims Conference is now
legal owner of the antiquities, overriding the wishes of the
heir. Hemer, who served as a witness, said he’s “astonished.”  Losing the collection “would destroy an institute that my
grandfather cherished,” Hemer said in an interview at the
museum in Leipzig. Though alert and fit for his age, he walks
with a stick and wears a hearing aid. “My grandfather was the
institute,” Hemer said. “He was this museum.”  Steindorff led archaeological excursions to  Egypt  between
1903 and 1931. He complemented his own finds with objects that
he purchased for his teaching practice and integrated into the
university collection.  Clay, Ceramics  The 163 antiquities include a 4,000-year-old Nagada bowl,
ancient clay figures, early Islamic ceramics and Greek and Roman
objects. He sold those acquisitions to the university for 8,000
Reichsmarks (about $3,200 at the time) in 1937 and they have
been there ever since, in the Egyptology museum he founded,
known since 2008 as the  Egyptian Museum Georg Steindorff ,
according to the court.  Before the sale, Steindorff had calculated the value of the
individual objects at 10,260 Reichsmarks. The court said the
discrepancy is a sign that the sale was not voluntary.  “In the case of sales by those persecuted during the Nazi
era there is a legal assumption that these were a result of
persecution and therefore liable for compensation,” the
administrative court said in a press release after the ruling.  “There is some evidence that, before 1933, Steindorff
intended to give his collection to the university,” the court
said. “Yet in 1937 he wanted to sell it. Therefore we can’t
rule out that the sale was under duress.”  Steindorff remained in  Germany  until March 1939. He managed
to obtain a passport through connections and left for the U.S.
via Bremen. He died in 1951 at the age of 90.  ‘Measure of Justice’  The Claims Conference, which describes its mission as
“securing a measure of justice for Jewish victims of Nazi
persecution,” also has a legal remit to recover property
confiscated from Jews before World War II in eastern Germany --
in cases where no heirs have stepped forward to stake a claim.
According to its website, the group has used more than $1
billion of revenue from such claims to fund social, educational
and research programs.  “No Steindorff heirs have come to us,” Gregory Schneider,
the executive vice president of the Jewish Claims Conference,
said by telephone from  New York . “We didn’t know about the
grandson until now. That is something we can work out
separately. What is important here is that a German court has
recognized that this is a forced sale.”  Request to Withdraw  Hemer says he never filed a claim because he wanted the
collection to stay in the university’s ownership. Leipzig
University disputes the Claims Conference’s statement that it
had no knowledge of Hemer’s existence.  According to a copy of the letter provided by Leipzig
University, the  German Federal Office for Central Services and
Unresolved Property Issues  wrote to the university in June 2007
saying it had written to the Claims Conference requesting it to
withdraw its claim because the legal heir wanted the collection
to stay at the university. The letter said the office had
received no answer.  A year earlier, the same office contacted Hemer asking for
information about the circumstances of the transfer of
Steindorff’s collection to the university.  ‘Life’s Work’  The Federal Office for Central Services and Unresolved
Property Issues had promised to inform the Jewish Claims
Conference about Hemer’s position, which was unequivocal.  “I am amazed that a claim for ‘restitution’ has been
filed,” he wrote in an e-mail to the office on May 13, 2007.
“I never solicited the assistance of the lawyers or the JCC. I
saw no need for restitution, or recovery of lost property. My
only concern is the preservation of my grandfather’s intention.
The museum was his life’s work, and it should be protected.”  Hemer left Leipzig as a child with his mother, who
initially took him to  California . He now lives near  Lake Tahoe .
A 2006 trip to Leipzig was his first since World War II, when he
was stationed in  Luxembourg .  Dietrich Raue, the curator of the museum, said no one has
so far put a contemporary value on the collection. “We never
planned to sell these objects,” he said. “They are here for
the benefit of the students.”  “I could accept it if Thomas Hemer said he wanted the
collection back,” Raue said. “I would give it to him tomorrow.
But he doesn’t. Steindorff built up this institute and wanted
his antiquities to benefit the students. This is what saddens
us.”  “All we can do is wait for the Claims Conference to tell
us how much they want,” Raue said. “Then we’ll know whether we
have a chance of keeping the collection here or not.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 