-- 
Juan Valdez Eyes China as Colombia Steers Asians From Tea

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-05-31T21:31:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/juan-valdez-eyes-china-as-colombia-coffee-farmers-steer-asians-from-tea.html
Colombia , known for coffee farmer
Juan Valdez and his donkey sidekick Conchita, is looking to
steer new generations of Chinese consumers to pick up a latte
instead of tea.  Colombia’s National Coffee Growers Federation  is hosting
experts from  China  for tastings this week and created a logo to
promote the brand in the Asian nation, the group’s Chief
Executive Officer Luis Munoz said. The logo includes a phonetic
spelling of the fictional farmer’s first name, followed by
Chinese characters for “imperial,” “aroma” and “savor” as
Colombia targets an “exponentially growing” market, he said.  “The culture is thousands of years old,” Munoz said in a
May 26 interview at the group’s headquarters in Bogota. “It’s
clear the market has new generations” open to drinking coffee
and not just tea, he said.  Colombia, the world’s second-largest grower of arabica
coffee, as well as Nestle Corp. and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , are eyeing
new customers in China as an expanding economy spurs  consumer
spending  and retail sales. Seattle-based Starbucks, the world’s
largest coffee-shop operator, plans to more than triple its
outlets on mainland China to 1,500 by 2015 as average
profitability at stores there outpaces the U.S.  Purchases by younger Chinese are fueling demand for arabica
coffee by 10 percent to 15 percent a year, according to an
industry group known as China Coffee Association Beijing. Mild
arabica beans are favored by brewers of specialty drinks such as
Starbucks.  Supply and Demand  While consumption of commodities in China has led to higher
prices for oil, coal and copper, the market for Colombian coffee
in the Asian nation is “very small” and won’t tip the balance
between supply and demand, Munoz said.  China’s imports of coffee will rise to 450,000 bags in the
2010 crop year from 425,000 a year earlier, according to U.S.
Agriculture Department figures. Each bag weighs 60 kilograms, or
132 pounds.  Colombia is making inroads in  Asia  as it seeks to more than
double its output this decade after the price of coffee touched
a 14-year high in May. China,  Japan ,  Korea  and  Australia  bought
about 17 percent of Colombia’s crop last year of 8.9 million
bags of arabica coffee, according to Munoz.  “We are bringing Colombian coffee to markets that once
were far away,” he said. “Asia will grow enormously.”  China ranks first among 22 emerging Asian economies as the
nation most likely to maintain fast growth over the next five
years, according to the Bloomberg Economic Momentum Index for
Developing Asia.  14-Year High  Arabica coffee jumped to $3.089 on May 3, the highest since
May 1997, in part as storms cut Colombia’s April harvest. Coffee
has gained 94 percent in a year. Arabica for July delivery rose
0.90 cent, or 0.3 percent, to $2.6460 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York .  The federation, which represents the majority of Colombia’s
more than 550,000 coffee growers, forecasts 2011 production of
9.5 million bags, and output may jump to 18 million bags in
2020, according to Munoz. In 2009, the crop fell to a 33-year
low of 7.8 million bags as adverse weather damaged plants.  Next year, growers will harvest as much as 11 million bags,
according to the federation.  From October 2011 through September 2012, Colombian
production will rise to 10.5 million bags from 9.5 million bags
in the year-earlier period, partly as growers combat disease,
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said in a report this month.  Brazil  is the largest producer of arabica coffee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  