-- 
Kenya’s Central Bank Will Increase Benchmark Rate Tomorrow, Survey Shows

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-30T07:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/kenya-s-central-bank-will-increase-benchmark-rate-tomorrow-survey-shows.html
Kenya ’s central bank will probably
increase its benchmark interest rate for a second consecutive
meeting as it seeks to curb inflation that has exceeded the
government’s target all year.  Kenya’s  monetary policy committee  will raise the benchmark
interest rate by between a quarter percentage point and 1
percentage point from the current 6 percent, according to all
seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The central bank is due
to announce the decision tomorrow afternoon in the capital,
Nairobi.  The bank surprised the market in January with a quarter-
point cut, and then reversed the decision at its last meeting in
March after inflation accelerated and the shilling weakened.
Further increases will be needed in the coming months to
counterbalance soaring food and fuel costs, said Celeste
Fauconnier, an analyst at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg.  “There is a feeling the central bank is very much behind
the curve and it needs to take a stronger monetary stance to
steer inflation toward the government’s 5 percent target,”
Fauconnier said. Increases will be tempered by the need to
ensure economic growth before elections next year, she said.  Kenya’s inflation rate rose to 12.05 percent in April, the
highest for two years. Inflation figures for May are due to be
published today or tomorrow.  The government increased the retail price of super petrol,
the most commonly used gasoline, by 3.8 percent this month, and
poor rainfall has pushed food prices higher. Kenya imports all
of the oil it uses and some grains.  IMF Warning  The  International Monetary Fund  said last week that
inflation in Kenya, East Africa’s largest economy, is a risk
that needs to be addressed. The fund also lowered its economic
growth forecast for 2011 to between 5 percent and 5.4 percent,
from 5.7 percent.  David Cowan , Citigroup Inc.’s Africa economist, predicts
that the bank will increase rates by 50 basis points, or half a
percentage point, though “the market would like a 100 basis-
point rise.”  “They are going to have to play catch-up considering where
the inflation rate is now, it’s been rising much quicker and
higher than they thought it would,” he said by phone from
 London .  Kenya has also been relying on other measures to cool
inflation, including removing liquidity through  repurchase
agreements , cutting taxes on kerosene and diesel, and proposing
the removal of duties on imports of corn and wheat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 