-- 
Kenya’s Shilling Weakens Before Inflation Report, Rate Decision

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-05-30T12:58:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/kenya-s-shilling-weakens-before-inflation-report-rate-decision.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened against the
dollar ahead of a May inflation report that will probably show
price increases remained above a government target.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy depreciated
as much as 0.4 percent to 85.95 per dollar and was trading 0.3
percent weaker at 85.90 by 3 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi, from
a close of 85.65 on May 27.  The Kenya Bureau of Statistics will release inflation data
today or tomorrow. Kenya’s monetary policy committee will
probably raise the benchmark interest rate by between a quarter
percentage point and 1 percentage point from the current 6
percent, according to all seven economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The central bank is due to announce the decision
tomorrow afternoon in Nairobi.  “The shilling has weakened as the market remains cagey to
the inflation data yet to be released and the direction the
central bank will take over the benchmark interest rate,”
Joshua Anene, a dealer at Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of
Africa Ltd., said in a phone interview today. “The market
expects a rise in the benchmark rate to rein in inflation.”  Kenya’s inflation rate has exceeded the government’s 5
percent target all year, rising to 12.05 percent in April, the
highest in two years. The shilling has depreciated 6.1 percent
against the dollar this year, making it the fourth-worst
performer worldwide, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Repo, Euro Purchases  “There is a feeling the central bank is very much behind
the curve and it needs to take a stronger monetary stance to
steer inflation toward the government’s 5 percent target,” said
Celeste Fauconnier, an analyst at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg.  The central bank accepted 500 million shillings ($5.8
million) of bids for  repurchase agreements  at an average 5.75
percent, it said on its Bloomberg page today. The bank sold 20.4
billion shillings of repos since May 11 in a bid to tighten
supply of the local currency. In a repurchase agreement an
investor agrees to sell a security to another trader, while at
the same time arranging to buy it back at a future date and at a
pre-determined price.  It bought 3 million euros ($4.3 million) at 122.326
shillings each, to boost its reserves, according to a statement
published on the bank’s Bloomberg page today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  