-- 
N.Z. Dollar Touches Record Versus Greenback on Export Data; Aussie Slips

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-05-30T05:57:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/n-z-dollar-advances-to-record-high.html
New Zealand ’s dollar reached its 
highest level since  exchange-rate  controls ended in 1985 after 
a report showed the nation’s trade surplus widened by almost 
twice economists’ estimates to a record in April.  The so-called kiwi has risen 8.8 percent against the
greenback since Feb. 25, the second-best performer among 16
major counterparts, as Asian demand drove up prices for New
Zealand’s milk, lumber and meat exports. Australia’s dollar
touched a three-month low against its New Zealand counterpart
amid signs the bigger nation’s economy is cooling.  “Resilience of the kiwi has been very impressive,” said
 Mitul Kotecha , Hong Kong-based head of global foreign-exchange
strategy at Credit Agricole CIB, a unit of  France ’s second-
biggest bank. “The numbers today from New Zealand are obviously
helping out as the trade data was far stronger than the market
had expected.”  The kiwi rose to as high as 82.19 U.S. cents before trading
at 81.78 cents as of 3:41 p.m. in Sydney. It closed at 81.92
U.S. cents in  New York  on May 27. The previous record of 82.14
U.S. cents was established in February 2008.  Australia’s dollar was at $1.0684 from $1.0706 on May 27 in
New York, after earlier rising to $1.0737, the highest since May
11. The currency was at NZ$1.3066 from NZ$1.3058 after touching
NZ$1.3019, the weakest level since Feb. 2. The Aussie fell to
86.30 yen from 86.49 yen.  Commodities Driving Surplus  The  New Zealand dollar ’s gain makes its exports more
expensive, hampering the nation’s economic recovery from two
earthquakes in the South Island city of Christchurch that killed
more than 180 people and caused an estimated NZ$15 billion in
reconstruction costs. Prime Minister John Key told reporters in
Wellington today that the kiwi was trading at “unsustainable
levels” for non-commodity exporters.  The exchange rate was “more bearable” for the commodity
sector because of high export prices, he said.  Exports outpaced imports by NZ$1.11 billion ($908 million)
from a revised NZ$578 million surplus in March, Statistics New
Zealand said today in Wellington. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists was for a NZ$600 million
surplus.  Prices of New Zealand’s commodity exports gained for an
eighth month to a record in April, according to an index
calculated by ANZ National Bank Ltd. Exports to  China , New
Zealand’s second-biggest export market after Australia, surged
42 percent to NZ$5.39 billion in the year ended March 31,
government figures showed.  ‘Rising Incomes’  “Rising incomes in the Asian region will generate a long-
run demand for agricultural commodities, with the New Zealand
economy better placed than most” as a supplier,  Richard Grace ,
chief currency strategist and head of international economics at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , wrote in a note to clients May
27. “These developments will be reflected in a higher New
Zealand dollar.”  The Aussie halted its two-day gain against the greenback as
the statistics bureau in Sydney said that gross operating
profits at companies declined 2 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three months, when they dropped a revised 1.7
percent.  Weaker GDP  Australia ’s Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said before a government
report on gross domestic product this week that natural
disasters in the nation probably cut more than 1 percentage
point from economic growth in the first quarter.  Swan’s latest estimate was higher than one he made in April
that put damage to GDP in the first quarter at 0.75 percentage
point. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists is for a 0.3 percent contraction from the final three
months of 2010.  Gains in New Zealand’s dollar were limited as its 10-day
relative strength index versus the  U.S. dollar  rose to 70.23,
above the level of 70 that suggests an asset’s price has risen
too fast and is poised to reverse course.  “The kiwi’s recent rise was rapid,” said Takuya Kawabata,
a researcher in  Tokyo  at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a
unit of  Japan ’s largest currency margin company. “It’s not
surprising to see some correction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  