-- 
Nadal Sets Up Soderling Quarterfinal at French Open; Li Na Also Advances

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-30T20:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/nadal-wins-to-reach-french-quarterfinals.html
Five-time champion  Rafael Nadal  beat
Ivan Ljubicic to set up a French Open tennis quarterfinal with
 Robin Soderling , the only man to have defeated him at Roland
Garros.  The top-ranked Nadal, 24, beat the Croatian, 7-5, 6-3, 6-3,
in the fourth round on a warm day on the main Court Philippe
Chatrier in Paris.  “You have to be realistic and today I’m not playing well
enough to win this tournament,” Nadal told a news conference.
“We will see after tomorrow if I am ready to play at this level.
I’m going to try.”  Soderling had no problem with France’s Gilles Simon, who he
beat 6-2, 6-3, 7-6 (7-5). The Swede reached the final last year
and in 2009, when he beat Nadal in the fourth round.  Li Na  became the first Chinese player to make it to the
last eight at  Roland Garros .  Maria Sharapova  also won to
continue her quest for the only major title that has eluded the
former No. 1 from Russia. It’s Sharapova’s first appearance in
the last eight of a major since the 2009 French Open.  Nadal, who said he struggled with the wind early on, made
12 unforced errors in the first set and another dozen in the
second and third sets combined.  Djokovic’s Run  Although the Spaniard won his 31st clay-court title last
month in Barcelona, the most of any player on the  ATP World Tour ,
he lost the finals in  Madrid  and Rome to Novak Djokovic.  The second-seeded Serb is on a 41-0 win streak this season
and has a shot at taking the No. 1 ranking from lefthander Nadal,
who is trying to tie Sweden’s Bjorn Borg with six  French Open 
titles.  “No one is unbeatable,” Soderling told reporters when
asked about Nadal, who beat him in last year’s final. “Every
time you go on court there is a chance and that’s the way you
have to think.”  Juan Ignacio Chela  of Argentina twice recovered from a set
deficit to beat Colombian qualifier Alejandro Falla 4-6, 6-2, 1-
6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-2. The match between the only two players left
in the draw from outside  Europe  took 3 hours, 55 minutes on
Court Suzanne Lenglen.  Chela, ranked 34th on the ATP World Tour, will play the
winner of the meeting of No. 4 seed Andy Murray and Victor
Troicki.  Murray, who was doubtful for the match after rolling his
ankle in his previous round, recovered to force a fifth set
before play was suspended at 9:30 p.m. local time because of
darkness. Murray trailed the Serb, 6-4, 6-4, 3-6 before taking
the fourth set 6-2.  Walkover for Djokovic  At the start of the day, Australian Open champion Djokovic
advanced to the last four when his opponent, Italy’s Fabio Fognini, withdrew with an injury. The Serb has four days of rest
before his semifinal, where he may meet 2009 champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland .  France ’s Gael Monfils, the No. 9 seed, set up a
quarterfinal with Federer by outlasting  Spain ’s David Ferrer 6-4,
2-6, 7-5, 1-6, 8-6.  The walkover means Djokovic, who is unbeaten in 43 matches
since the Davis Cup final in December, will have to wait until
after the French Open to catch Argentina’s Guillermo Vilas for
the longest win streak since tennis turned professional in 1968.  Vilas won 46 consecutive matches in 1977. Djokovic can
equal John McEnroe’s record of 42 straight wins to start a
season if he reaches the final.  Quarterfinal Set  In the women’s draw, the seventh-seeded  Li Na  recovered
from 3-0 down in the final set to beat No. 9 Petra Kvitova of
the Czech Republic, 2-6, 6-1, 6-3. The Chinese player has now
reached the last eight at each of the four majors.  “I didn’t believe I can come back, because she has a huge
big serve,”  Li Na  told a news conference.  Li Na will play  Victoria Azarenka , at No. 4 the highest
seed left in the women’s draw, in the quarterfinals. The player
from Belarus beat Ekaterina Makarova of  Russia  6-2, 6-3.
Azarenka is seeking her first major title.  Sharapova moved to her fourth quarterfinal at Roland Garros
by beating Agnieszka Radwanska, the No. 12 seed from Poland, 7-6
(7-4), 7-5. The former Wimbledon champion next plays  Germany ’s
Andrea Petkovic, who beat Russian Maria Kirilenko, 6-2, 2-6, 6-4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  