-- 
Obama Names Army’s Dempsey Joint Chiefs Chairman to Succeed Admiral Mullen

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-05-30T16:54:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/obama-names-army-s-dempsey-joint-chiefs-chairman-to-succeed-admiral-mullen.html
President  Barack Obama  named Army
General Martin Dempsey chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and
his top military adviser.  Dempsey, a veteran of the war in Iraq who helped Iraqi
troops in their security takeover, would replace Navy Admiral
Mike Mullen, whose term ends Sept. 30.  Dempsey is “one of our nation’s most respected and combat-
tested generals,” Obama said. “I expect him to push all our
forces to continue adapting and innovating to be ready for the
missions of today and tomorrow,” Obama added, making the
announcement today in the White House Rose Garden.  The shift in top military positions comes as Obama seeks to
end the U.S. military role in  Iraq , begin a drawdown in
Afghanistan and find ways to cut $400 billion from the Defense
Department’s budget over the next 12 years.  The president also announced the appointment of Admiral
James A. Winnefeld as vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
and Army General  Ray Odierno  as the new Army chief of staff,
succeeding Dempsey. Odierno is best known as a commander in Iraq
who crafted the troop surge and put into effect the
counterinsurgency strategy.  Obama urged the Senate “to confirm these outstanding
individuals as swiftly as possible.”  Joint Chiefs Tours  Winnefeld, commander of the North American Aerospace
Defense Command and the U.S. Northern Command, has served
numerous tours on the Joint Staff, most recently as director for
strategic plans and policy. He has led sea commands supporting
combat operations in  Afghanistan  and Iraq.  “Having served as a NATO commander, Sandy is well known to
our allies,” Obama said. “Having served on the Joint Staff, he
is known and trusted here at the White House.”  Obama said he hoped for “honest, unvarnished advice” from
both in the coming challenges, including reducing troops in Iraq
and Afghanistan and fighting terrorists and al-Qaeda while at
the same time paring back the defense department budget.  Dempsey, who was sworn in as Army chief of staff just weeks
ago, graduated from the U.S. Military Academy at  West Point ,  New
York , in 1974 with David Petraeus, the top U.S. and NATO
commander in Afghanistan.  Baghdad Command  Dempsey commanded the 1st Armored Division in  Baghdad  in
2003 and 2004. The unit’s tour, originally scheduled to last 12
months, was extended three months to quell an uprising led by
the radical Shiite cleric Moqtada Al-Sadr.  Dempsey returned to Iraq in 2005 to command the Multi-
National Security Transition Command, responsible for training
and equipping Iraqi troops. He also served as acting commander
of U.S.  Central Command , which is responsible for U.S. military
operations in 20 countries from the  Middle East  to Afghanistan
and Pakistan.  Calling Odierno “one of the most accomplished” commanders
in the U.S. military, Obama that in three deployments to Iraq
the general helped capture  Saddam Hussein  and shrink U.S. combat
forces.  Obama bypassed a chance to elevate U.S. Marine Corps
General James Cartwright, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, to the top position.  Cartwright met with the president at the White House on the
matter on May 21 and had worked closely with the White House,
including on planning for the raid in  Pakistan  that killed  Osama bin Laden . He was among those at the center of a 2009 debate
within the Obama administration over strategy on the war in
Afghanistan.  Favorite General  Washington Post journalist Bob Woodward said in a book on
the decision-making process that Cartwright was known at the
White House as the president’s favorite general and that he
disagreed with current Joint Chiefs chairman Mullen and other
military and defense leaders over options.  The president earlier nominated Leon Panetta to succeed
 Robert Gates  as defense secretary. Petraeus has been nominated
to head the Central Intelligence Agency after Panetta takes over
at the Pentagon.  Obama praised outgoing chairman Mullen for his stewardship
of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, relief efforts in  Haiti 
after the earthquake, and relations with NATO,  Russia , Pakistan
and  China . He also noted Mullen’s decision to endorse repeal of
the “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” policy banning gays and lesbians
from serving openly in the military.  “I believe history will also record that it was Mike
Mullen who said what he believed was right and declared that no
one in uniform should have to sacrifice their integrity to serve
their country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  