-- 
Ohio State’s Tressel Quits Amid NCAA Probe; Fickell Is Named Interim Coach

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-05-31T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/ohio-state-s-tressel-quits-amid-ncaa-probe-fickell-is-named-interim-coach.html
Jim Tressel, who coached  Ohio State
University  to a national football championship and compiled a
106-22 record there, resigned as new allegations related to a
memorabilia-selling scandal emerged.  Former Buckeyes wide receiver Ray Small told the school’s
newspaper May 26 that he sold championship rings and received
special deals at a car dealership near the Columbus, Ohio,
campus. The Columbus Dispatch newspaper said the school and
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  were investigating more
potential wrong doing as well.  Almost six months earlier, six players were suspended for
selling or trading uniforms and other memorabilia to the owner
of a tattoo parlor, an infraction Tressel knew about and failed
to report to the NCAA.  “After meeting with university officials, we agreed that
it is in the best interest of Ohio State that I resign,”
Tressel, 58, said in a statement yesterday.  Assistant Head Coach and Co-Defensive Coordinator Luke Fickell will take over for the 2011-2012 season. The university
then will begin the search for a full-time successor, the school
said in an e-mail.  Ohio State has been under pressure to act as the date of an
NCAA disciplinary hearing approached, the Dispatch said, citing
unidentified university sources.  Tressel led the Buckeyes to their first national title in
34 years during the 2002 season. He was 241-79-2 overall, having
coached Youngstown State from 1986-2000.  The NCAA notified Ohio State in April that it wouldn’t be
cited for a lack of institutional control -- the NCAA’s most
serious breach -- after Tressel kept information from school
administrators for more than nine months.  Five-Game Suspension  Tressel was suspended by the school for the first five
games of the 2011 season and fined $250,000.  Tressel was scheduled to make almost $3.6 million in total
compensation between Feb. 1 and Jan. 31, 2012, based on a 2010
addendum to his contract. The original contract said that by
resigning, he wouldn’t be entitled to receive further
compensation or benefits, according to the  Associated Press .  By resigning and not being asked to leave for cause,
Tressel also would be eligible to ask for an associate athletic
director position that would pay $150,000 per year, according to
the contract. Jim Lynch, an Ohio State spokesman, told AP that
he didn’t know whether a severance package had been negotiated.  Illegal Sales  The NCAA said that, between November 2008 and May 2010,
Ohio State football players sold university-issued sports
awards, apparel and equipment to Edward Rife, the owner of a
tattoo parlor in Columbus.  The merchandise included 2008 Big Ten Conference
championship rings, a 2008 national championship game jersey, a
2010 Rose Bowl watch, a pair of pants and a pair of shoes.  Tressel “knew or should have known” that at least two
football players received preferential treatment and sold the
awards, clothing and equipment, the NCAA said.  The coach “failed to report the information to athletics
administrators and, as a result, permitted football student-
athletes to participate in intercollegiate athletics competition
while ineligible,” the NCAA said.  Ohio State and Tressel were scheduled to appear before the
NCAA’s infractions committee on Aug. 12.  Small, who was with the Buckeyes from 2006-2009, told  The
Lantern  that he had sold memorabilia to cover typical costs of
living and that special deals on cars were commonplace.  Rife on May 27 was charged with drug trafficking and  money
laundering , and agreed to plead guilty and cooperate with
authorities, according to the Associated Press.  ‘Refocusing’  “We look forward to refocusing the football program on
doing what we do best -- representing this extraordinary
university and its values on the field, in the classroom and in
life,” Gene Smith, Ohio State’s athletic director, said in a
statement. “We look forward to supporting Luke Fickell in his
role as our football coach. We have full confidence in his
ability to lead our football program.”  The NCAA and Ohio State are investigating whether
quarterback Terrelle Pryor wrongly received cars and other
benefits, the  Columbus Dispatch  reported yesterday. Pryor,
Daniel Herron, DeVier Posey, Solomon Thomas and Mike Adams were
suspended for five games for their part in the sale of items to
Rife. Jordan Whiting was given a one-game ban.  Ohio State’s 2002 national championship was the seventh in
the school’s 120-year history. The 31-24 double-overtime win
came after a touchdown by freshman running back Maurice Clarett,
who played one season for the Buckeyes before being kicked off
the team for receiving improper gifts and lying about it to
investigators.  12-1 Season  Last season, the Buckeyes went 12-1, beating Arkansas 31-26
in the Sugar Bowl. They also won their sixth straight Big Ten
Conference title and 35th overall, and beat rival Michigan 37-7,
giving Tressel a 9-1 record against the Wolverines.  The university’s football program has been through scandal
before: Its winningest coach, Woody Hayes, who went 205-61-10
and won three consensus national titles, was fired in 1978 after
punching a opposing player from  Clemson University  during the
Gator Bowl.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 