-- 
Oil Drops on Slowing U.S. Economy, Europe Debt

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-05-30T19:29:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/oil-declines-in-new-york-on-concern-reports-to-show-u-s-economy-slowing.html
Oil dropped in  New York , headed for
its first monthly decline since August, on speculation that fuel
demand will falter amid a slowdown in the U.S. economic recovery
and  Europe ’s continuing debt crisis.  Futures slipped as much as 1 percent before reports this
week that may show U.S. employers hired fewer workers in May and
manufacturing cooled. Concern that European governments will
struggle to resolve the region’s debt crises weakened the euro
against the dollar, reducing the appeal of commodities priced in
the U.S. currency. Trading volumes were lower than average, with
public holidays in the U.S. and U.K.  “The dollar is a bit stronger today, which is a negative
factor for prices,” said  Carsten Fritsch , a Commerzbank AG
analyst in  Frankfurt . Greek debt problems “weigh on the euro.”  Crude for July delivery fell 21 cents, or 0.2 percent, to
$100.38 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Earlier it touched $99.60. Prices have
fallen 12 percent this month. Brent oil for July settlement lost
35 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $114.68 on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London . The contract has fallen 8.3 percent this
month.  The European benchmark contract traded at a premium of
$14.30 a barrel to U.S. futures. The difference between front-
month contracts in London and New York surged to a record $19.54
on Feb. 21. It averaged 76 cents last year.  U.S. floor trading is closed today for the Memorial Day
holiday. Electronic trades will be booked with tomorrow’s
transactions for settlement purposes.  Weaker Euro  The dollar gained 0.4 percent to trade at $1.4278 against
the euro after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said he’ll
press ahead with new austerity measures even as he failed to win
backing from opposition parties. A strengthening dollar limits
the appeal of commodities priced in the currency as a hedge
against inflation.  U.S. manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of
the world’s biggest economy, will probably cool following its
strongest showing in seven years. The Institute for Supply
Management’s factory index fell to 57.6 this month, the lowest
level since October, according median forecast in the Bloomberg
survey of economists. The Labor Department may say on June 3
payrolls rose 185,000 after a 244,000 gain in April, according
to a separate survey.  Employment Data  “The employment data will be the key this week to really
see what’s happening” in the U.S., said  Jonathan Barratt ,
managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney,
who predicted oil will average $100 this year.  Brent has advanced 21 percent this year as unrest in the
 Middle East  and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia and
Egypt and spread to  Libya , Iran and Syria. Libya’s rebels are
unlikely to resume crude production from territory under their
control for “some time,” Reuters reported yesterday, citing
Ali Tarhouni, the dissidents’ oil and finance minister.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-long position in crude futures in the week ended May
24, according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Managed-money bets, in futures and options combined, that
prices will rise outnumbered short positions by 225,677 futures,
the Washington-based regulator said in its weekly Commitments of
Traders report. Net long positions increased by 4,112 contracts,
or 1.86 percent, from a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  