-- 
London Luxury-Home Prices Increase the Most in a Year on Overseas Demand

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-05-31T08:42:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/london-luxury-home-prices-rise-at-fastest-pace-in-year-on-overseas-demand.html
Luxury-home prices in central  London 
rose at the fastest pace in a year in May as the pound’s
weakness encouraged overseas buyers to compete for a declining
number of properties for sale,  Knight Frank LLP  said.  Values of houses and apartments costing an average of 3.7
million pounds ($6 million) increased 1.4 percent from the
previous month, the London-based property broker said in a
statement today. That’s the seventh straight increase and
compares with a 1 percent gain in April.  The cost of buying homes in neighborhoods such as
Knightsbridge and St. John’s Wood has climbed 33 percent since
March 2009, topping the peak reached in March 2008. The number
of homes for sale is 5 percent lower than a year earlier, while
prospective buyers registered with Knight Frank increased 10
percent.  “For many investors and potential owner-occupiers based in
fast-growing emerging countries, prices of prime central London
property are actually well below the 2007 peak in their own
currency terms,” said Camilla Dell, managing partner and
founder of  Black Brick Property Solutions LLP . Her London-based
company advises luxury-home buyers in southeast  England .  Prices climbed 8.3 percent in April from a year earlier,
the fourth straight annual gain of less than 10 percent, Knight
Frank said. Since Britain’s mainstream housing market peaked in
September 2007, the pound has declined 20 percent against a
basket of currencies,  Bank of England  data show.  ‘Degree of Safety’  “For international investors scouring the world for unique
assets with a degree of safety that aren’t exorbitantly valued,
prime central London continues to fit the bill,” Dell said.  Prices are unlikely to fall soon because the shortage of
properties is fueling competition between purchasers, she said.  More foreign buyers are coming to London because of
political and economic instability in their home countries,
 Knight Frank  said. London’s role as a global financial center
and the reputation of its universities and private schools are
also attractions.  “We have a couple of Egyptian clients who are active at
the moment and, with an early Ramadan this year, we’re expecting
a busy June and July,” said Johnny Turnbull, managing partner
of  Turnbull Property . The London-based property broker acts for
buyers of top-quality homes in the city.  Finding new or recently renovated homes has become harder
after banks reduced their real-estate holdings and curtailed
finance for development, improving the prospects of the few
projects that do proceed.  One Hyde Park  Earlier this month, property entrepreneur Christian Candy’s
CPC Group said it had sold 46 apartments in the  One Hyde Park 
development for a total of 974 million pounds. CPC has agreed to
additional sales worth 120 million pounds.  A one-bedroom duplex show apartment in the development
decorated and furnished by  Candy & Candy , the interior-design
company owned by Christian and his brother, Nick, fetched 9.85
million pounds.  Competition is increasing for properties in need of
renovation because there’s a shortage of fully-equipped homes on
the market, said  Stuart Bailey , who heads Knight Frank’s
Belgravia office. Two of the last three homes that needed work,
with prices ranging from 6.5 million pounds to 19 million
pounds, sold for more than the guide price, he said.  No Marketing  “We had sufficient demand that we didn’t even need to do
any formal marketing,” Bailey said. Just one of the 15 homes
Bailey’s team sold for more than 10 million pounds in the past
year went to a buyer based in the U.K., he said.  The average price of a London home advanced 0.8 percent in
March from a year earlier, while values in other parts of the
country dropped, according to the most recent  Land Registry 
data. Prices in England and  Wales  fell 2.3 percent, the Land
Registry survey showed, as lenders granted fewer mortgages and
government budget cuts reduced household incomes.  Knight Frank compiles its luxury-homes index from estimated
values of properties in the Mayfair, St. John’s Wood, Regent’s
Park, Kensington,  Notting Hill , Chelsea, Knightsbridge,
Belgravia and South Bank neighborhoods of London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 