-- 
ONGC Profit Unexpectedly Drops as Government Orders Higher Subsidy Payout

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-05-31T03:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/ongc-profit-unexpectedly-drops-as-government-orders-higher-subsidy-payout.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp.,  India ’s
biggest energy explorer, unexpectedly posted a drop in fourth-
quarter profit after the government ordered it to pay more to
refiners including Indian Oil Corp. to cap fuel prices.  Net income in the three months ended March 31 fell 26
percent to 27.9 billion rupees ($619 million), the New Delhi-
based company said in a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange
yesterday. The average profit estimate of 22 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey was 51.3 billion rupees.  The government increased the subsidy payable by state-owned
explorers as global  crude oil  rose to keep diesel, kerosene and
cooking  gas prices  unchanged and curb inflation in world’s
second-fastest growing major economy. The payments and cash
compensation from the government helped Indian Oil, the nation’s
largest refiner, to post earnings that exceeded analysts’
expectations.  “Subsidy is the overarching factor that’s depressing the
value of these companies and has a big effect on profits,” said
Jagdish Meghnani, a Mumbai-based oil and gas analyst at Alchemy
Share & Stock Brokers. “The government has to come out with
some kind of formula for subsidy. At some point of time, fuel
prices will have to be freed. Till then, these companies will
continue to be undervalued.”  ONGC was asked to pay 248.9 billion rupees in the form of
discounts to state refiners in the year ended March 31,
according to the statement. The subsidy hurt fourth-quarter
profit by 69.7 billion rupees, ONGC said.  Crude Prices  Indian Oil posted a 30 percent decline in profit to 39.1
billion rupees. The average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was a profit of 32.4 billion rupees. Sales increased
31 percent to 868.8 billion rupees, the fastest pace since
September 2008.  Crude oil in  New York  climbed 20 percent to an average of
$94.60 a barrel in the three months ended March 31 from a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prices
averaged $98.88 a barrel this year and reached a high of $113.93
on April 29.  ONGC fell 2 percent to 271.95 rupees at 9:20 a.m. in Mumbai
trading. Indian Oil climbed 0.9 percent to 322.45 rupees. The
benchmark Sensitive Index rose 0.4 percent.  Subsidy Burden  The share of subsidies for exploration companies including
ONGC and  Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  was increased to 38.8 percent of the
total in the last fiscal year from 33 percent previously,
Chairman A.K. Hazarika told reporters in New Delhi yesterday.
The increased burden resulted in gas transporter  GAIL India
Ltd. (GAIL) ’s fourth-quarter profit falling for the first time in six
quarters.  The government may increase fuel prices to ease the subsidy
burden and help it sell shares in ONGC as part of a plan to
raise 400 billion rupees this year for social welfare projects.
The share sale may start on July 5, Hazarika said.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Bank of America Corp.,
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , JM Financial Services Ltd. and Morgan Stanley,
may manage ONGC’s share sale, two people with knowledge of the
matter said Jan. 16.  ONGC is seeking to buy oil and gas deposits in  Canada ,
 Kazakhstan  and  Russia  as it plans to get the equivalent of  60
million  metric tons of oil from overseas by 2025, or more than
double its output from ageing fields in India. The company lost
a bid to buy  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s 25 percent stake in an offshore
oil field in  Angola , two people familiar with the matter said
March 14.  Refining Margin  Indian Oil accounted for 109.4 billion rupees as
compensation from the government for selling fuels below cost in
the quarter, compared with 106.9 billion rupees a year earlier,
according to the statement.  The average gross refining margin in the quarter was $7.85
a barrel compared with $3.38 a year earlier, according to the
company’s earnings statement.  The New Delhi-based refiner currently has debt of 678.8
billion rupees compared with 527.3 billion rupees at the end of
March, Chairman R.S. Butola said in New Delhi yesterday. Indian
Oil plans to sell dollar-denominated bonds this year, finance
director P.K. Goyal said. The amount and timing haven’t been
decided yet, he said.  Indian Oil increased gasoline prices this month by 5 rupees
a liter in  New Delhi , the most since June 2008. A panel of
ministers may allow the refiner to raise diesel prices next
month to narrow revenue losses, an official at the oil ministry
said May 26.  Indian Oil’s smaller state rivals reported higher profit
after getting compensation. Hindustan Petroleum Corp.’s earnings
rose 48 percent to 11.2 billion rupees and Bharat Petroleum Corp.
posted a 33 percent increase in net income to 9.35 billion
rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 