-- 
Honohan Says Markets to Improve as New Irish Bailout Ruled Out

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-05-30T12:58:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/honohan-says-markets-to-improve-as-new-irish-bailout-ruled-out.html
Ireland’s Central Bank Governor
Patrick Honohan said bond markets will improve, as the country’s
finance minister “categorically” ruled out the possibility of
Ireland needing a second bailout next year.  The difference in yield between Irish and German 10-year
bonds has widened 162 basis points, or 1.62 percentage point,
since Nov. 26, before the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  signed off on Ireland’s rescue. The so-called
spread stood at 808 basis points today.  “Market conditions now are worse than they were then, but
market conditions will improve,” Honohan told reporters in
Dublin today, as “necessary” action is taken to restore
confidence. The government “‘will go back into the markets just
as soon as it judges that’s the right thing to do.”  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said today that
there’s “no question” of Ireland needing a second bailout
package next year. He was responding to comments by Transport
Minister Leo Varadkar that Ireland was “very unlikely” to re-
enter the markets next year, as set out in the bailout plan.  In remarks broadcast by  Newstalk  radio station today,
Noonan said he’s hopeful the nation will return to the
international bond markets “in some small way” by the end of
2012.  While he said Varadkar’s comments were “reasonable” in
the context of raising private finance for state projects, he
said the aid program didn’t require a “full” return to the
markets next year.  Honohan said there had been a “spillover” effect on the
markets for Irish debt from discussions on  Greece . The EU may
withhold the next aid payment to Greece after a report by an
international panel of inspectors concluded that the debt-laden
country has missed all the fiscal targets agreed in its rescue
plan,  Der Spiegel  said, without saying how it obtained the
information.  Ireland has “contingency plans for everything,” Honohan
said. He said today “nothing will work” unless the Irish
economy returns to growth. While growth is “very modest at
best” this year, the economy will “improve” in 2012, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  