-- 
The United States of Justice Kennedy: Noah Feldman

-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 
2011-05-30T19:48:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/how-it-became-the-united-states-of-justice-kennedy-noah-feldman.html
(Corrects 17th paragraph with name of Supreme Court case.)  It’s Justice Anthony Kennedy’s
country -- the rest of us just live in it. Or so it sometimes
feels when the U.S. Supreme Court’s most important and decisions
come down from Mount Olympus, aka 1 First Street, NE, where the
justices preside in their white marble temple in  Washington .  The most recent 5-4 decision with Kennedy writing the
majority opinion ordered the release of some 46,000 inmates from
California prisons over the next few years unless the state can
find room for them in alternative county lockups.  Justice  Antonin Scalia  fulminated shockingly on the danger
of releasing “fine physical specimens who have developed
intimidating muscles pumping iron in the prison gym” onto the
unsuspecting populace. But dissent was all Scalia could muster:
With the court’s four liberals behind him, Kennedy couldn’t be
stopped.  Sometimes, of course, Kennedy is on the conservative side.
Last month, it was Justice Elena Kagan who was outraged when a
5-4 Kennedy opinion, joined by the four conservatives, made it
much harder for taxpayers to sue when the government violates
the separation of church and state.  It is Kennedy’s apparent unpredictability -- and his
willingness to make common cause with both factions in different
cases -- that is the source of his overwhelming power in court
and country. This year, there have been nine 5-4 cases; Kennedy
has been in the majority every time. (Last year he was the
controlling vote in 12 of 17 cases decided 5-4; the previous
year 20 out of 25.)  Not Another O’Connor  For years, Justice  Sandra Day O’Connor  played a similar
role as a swing voter. A former state legislator, O’Connor was a
pragmatic centrist, sniffing the wind to get a sense of where
the median voter wanted to go, and taking the court there with
her. But even at the height of her centrist power she never
quite reached the position of utter dominance that Kennedy now
enjoys -- partly because Kennedy was on the court with her, so
she was not the only wild card.  Justice Kennedy is different. His opinions tend to be
grounded on strong statements of principle. Yet many find his
tacking from right to left mystifying, frustrating and
unpredictable. They question what consistent principles could
guide such apparently disparate conclusions, and hint darkly at
incoherence or self-aggrandizement.  The truth is that Kennedy’s principles can be identified
and explained; and that explanation can help predict what
Kennedy will do next in all-important cases, such as the
constitutionality of the health-care law or gay marriage.  Well-Defined Principles  As it happens, some of Kennedy’s principles were on display
in the  California  prisons case. The facts were simple:
California’s prisons are at roughly 200 percent of capacity.
Physically and mentally ill inmates sued for adequate services.
Two courts over the last decade ordered improvements. When
nothing happened, a special three-judge federal district court
ordered that the facilities be reduced to 137.5 percent of
capacity.  In reviewing the lower court’s finding, Kennedy started
with what is undoubtedly his favorite constitutional concept:
dignity. Prisoners, he said, have lost their liberty, yet they
maintain their dignity as human beings. In fact, Kennedy
asserted, the whole point of the Eighth Amendment’s ban on cruel
and unusual punishment is to preserve human dignity.  Once dignity was in play, Kennedy was essentially
guaranteed to hold in favor of the inmates. He has invoked the
principle in a bewildering array of contexts, always with
decisive force. Dignity was at the heart of Kennedy’s vote to
preserve the basic abortion right in the famous Planned
Parenthood v. Casey decision, where he wrote of the need to
respect “choices central to personal dignity and autonomy.”  Unlimited Dignity  Dignity appeared again when Kennedy, in the landmark case of
Lawrence v.  Texas , found a right to choose one’s sexual partner
and so struck down an anti-sodomy statute.  More recently, Kennedy invoked dignity to uphold
restrictions on so-called partial-birth abortions, reasoning
that the congressional ban expressed “respect for the dignity
of human life.” Perhaps most strangely, Kennedy relied on the
dignity of state government to conclude that states couldn’t be
sued for money damages in their own courts, even if they broke
federal law.  Dignity, of course, can mean many things. The dignity to
choose is a kind of freedom, but prisoners have lost that sort
of dignity. Their kind of dignity is the basic right to be
treated humanely. The dignity of a fetus was, in Kennedy’s view,
connected to the method of abortion. And whatever dignity is
possessed by state governments must be something very abstract
indeed. The key point, though, is that Kennedy takes dignity
seriously.  The Best Argument  Anyone who wants to win his vote would do well to argue
that someone’s dignity is being violated somewhere. The
California inmates had a pretty good argument on that front,
both in terms of the Constitution and the facts of their
treatment.  There was another of Kennedy’s pet principles at work in
the prison decision: the vindication of the power of the
judiciary. For straightforward political reasons -- who is the
constituency interested in improving prisons? -- California had
for years been flouting court orders demanding reform in prison
health care.  If there is one thing that enrages Justice Kennedy, it is
seeing the courts ignored by other branches of government. In
1999, after Congress passed legislation reversing a Supreme
Court opinion on religious liberty, Kennedy wrote the opinion in
City of Boerne v. Flores rejecting Congress’s efforts as
illegitimate.  Castigating Congress  In 2008’s Boumediene v. Bush, the most dramatic of the
Guantanamo Bay cases, Kennedy -- as usual writing for a 5-4
majority -- castigated Congress and the president for excluding
the courts from supervising detention in the war on terror.
“The Nation’s basic charter,” Kennedy wrote, “cannot be
contracted away like this.” In other words, Kennedy was saying,
the court couldn’t trust the other branches to apply the
Constitution without it.  Given his commitment to dignity and judicial authority,
Justice Kennedy’s vote in the California prisons case wasn’t
unpredictable at all. Similarly, one can predict that when it
comes to gay marriage, Kennedy will believe human dignity means
everyone should have equal marriage rights regardless of his or
her sexual orientation.  As for health care, the question is closer: Does mandatory
insurance violate individual dignity-as-choice? Or does human
dignity require universal health care? Justice Kennedy’s answer
will be the law of the land.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at Harvard, is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:  noah_feldman@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 