-- 
How Ratko Mladic’s Evil Dream Lives On: Aleksandar Hemon

-- B y   A l e k s a n d a r   H e m o n
-- 
2011-05-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/how-ratko-mladic-s-evil-dream-will-live-on-commentary-by-aleksandar-hemon.html
In the spring of 1992, at the
beginning of the siege of Sarajevo, an exchange between General
Ratko Mladic and a Serb artillery colonel commanding positions
above the city was intercepted and recorded. "Fire on Velesici
and Pofalici," General Mladic ordered, referring to two Sarajevo
neighborhoods. "There aren’t many Serbs there." A certain glee
in his voice is audible as he refines his order: "Don’t let them
sleep. Make them lose their minds."  Later on, he’d claim that the conversation was faked, that
the order was given by "a skillful imitator" of his voice. Had
he ever existed, the imitator would have been deservedly praised
for capturing perfectly a ruthlessness worthy of Christopher
Marlowe’s Tamburlaine. For General Mladic, handpicked by
 Slobodan Milosevic , the Serbian president, to command the
destruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the price of a few dead
fellow Serbs wasn’t too high if he could make Sarajevans lose
their minds, before they lost their lives.  But the man who proudly addressed a TV camera on July 11,
1995, the day the "safe" enclave of Srebrenica fell to the Serb
forces, wasn’t a skillful imitator, but General Mladic himself.
He offered the conquered city as "a gift to the Serb people,"
adding that "finally the time has arrived to take revenge upon
the Turks, after the uprising against the Dahi." Apart from
putting himself, out of evident patriotic vanity, on the scene
of a war crime, General Mladic precisely formulated the racist
pathology of Serbian nationalism: The uprising against the Dahi
-- the local Ottoman overlords -- took place in the early 19th
century. By "the Turks" he now meant Bosnian Muslims. Invested
in an uprising from 200 years earlier, he fought imaginary
enemies.  Srebrenica Massacre  His victims were far too real. In Srebrenica, General
Mladic directly oversaw the killing of almost 8,000 men, a feat
now known as the largest mass murder in  Europe  since World War
II. He was all over the place, and a camera faithfully followed
him: Walking the streets of the ravaged city, he issued orders
off the cuff. To the desperate women and children, he promised
passage to safety, suggesting that the men would follow later.
He bullied Colonel Thomas Karremans, the commander of the Dutch
United Nations battalion, who then meekly delivered to their
death the men seeking protection in the UN camp. At a meeting
with the hapless Karremans that included Nesib Mandzic, a local
high-school teacher, Mladic claimed that if the Muslim men in
the UN camp chose to lay their arms down (they had none, as that
had been the condition of their entering the camp) he would
"guarantee" their lives; to the terrified teacher he entrusted
the task of convincing them, and told him that "the fate of his
people (was) in his hands."  Absolute Power  The fate of the people of Srebrenica was, of course, in
General Mladic’s hands. From a position of absolute power over
life and death, he made his victims believe he had no reason to
lie, precisely because his power was absolute. He clearly
enjoyed offering false choices to the men he was about to
exterminate,  offering  candy to their children, offering eternal
expulsion to their wives and mothers, his power increasing by a
pleasant notch: it was now so great that he could choose not to
wield it. The whole world knows he did.  A career officer in the Yugoslav People’s Army, he’d
commanded a provincial garrison in the Macedonian town of Stip
in the late ’80s. After his sociopathic talents had been
recognized by Milosevic, Mladic was promoted and transferred in
1991 to the Knin garrison in  Croatia , where he quickly carved
out a large chunk of territory, which the Serbs lost only in
1995. In 1992, he was sent to Bosnia to continue establishing
Greater Serbia. When Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb civilian
leader, tried to remove him from his supreme commanding post in
1995, General Mladic simply ignored him, as did Mladic’s loyal
Bosnian Serb Army. All over the Serb lands, songs were sung
about him and his heroic feats.  Home Movies  None of his heroic ruthlessness, however, was visible in
the footage broadcast on Bosnian television in 2009, in which
Mladic was featured in a series of home movies. Apart from an
occasional thick-necked bodyguard stumbling into the frame,
nothing suggests the war, let alone a genocidal exercise of
power in Srebrenica. Instead, Mladic is seen at parties and
weddings, singing loudly out of tune; he’s visited by other
suspected war criminals in civilian suits, carrying flowers for
his wife; he enjoys downtime in the idyllic surroundings of
military barracks somewhere in  Serbia  -- accompanied by a
singing bird, he pensively says: "Peace. Quiet." If it weren’t
for the images from his suicide daughter’s funeral, where he
kisses the morbid little window on her coffin, and then, ever a
neat soldier, wipes it with a handkerchief, the footage would be
practically a commercial for comfortable retirement.  For years after the war ended in 1995, he moved freely
between the Bosnian Serb territories and Serbia proper. Only
after the fall of Milosevic in 2000 did he go into what is very
generously called hiding, as the Serbian security forces seemed
to have known where he was all along. He continued receiving
Serbian military pension until 2005.  Burning for Revenge  The 69-year-old man who emerged from a house in Lazarevo,
in northeastern Serbia, looks nothing like the Mladic of
Srebrenica, who was burning, his sleeves rolled up, to get to
the business of revenge. Now a spent man, Mladic has outlived
Milosevic, his project of Greater Serbia and the fanatical
loyalty of many Serbs, fed from the fertile ground of mass
murder. And there is a happy consensus in Serbia and Europe that
it is time to drop the stinking weight of Yugoslav wars and
proceed to Greater Europe, where free-trade oblivion will soon
ensue.  But the state of  Bosnia and Herzegovina  today ought to be
part of Mladic’s indictment: Srebrenica is still under Serb
control; the families of the murdered men dare not return. The
politicians of "Republika Srpska," a Serb state-let built by
Mladic and his killers, but nominally part of Bosnia,
participate in Bosnian political institutions only to block
their functioning. Europe, for which Mladic is the Serbian
ticket, is closed to Bosnia, partly because there aren’t Bosnian
war criminals that could be traded in for prosperity. General
Mladic’s project of Greater Serbia has failed, but his project
of destroying Bosnia still has a good chance of succeeding.  (Aleksandar Hemon, a Bosnian-American writer, is the
author, most recently, of the novel “The Lazarus Project” and
“Love and Obstacles,” a collection of short stories. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  For Related News and Information:
For more Bloomberg View: {VIEW }
For more top Europe news: {TOP EUR }
For more on  war crimes : {TNI WAR CRIME }  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aleksandar Hemon at  sorgespy@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  