-- 
Palladium Rising as BMW Becomes Catalyst for Biggest Shortage in 32 Years

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-05-31T16:54:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/palladium-rising-as-bmw-becomes-catalyst-for-biggest-shortage-in-32-years.html
Palladium’s biggest shortage in three
decades means this year’s worst-performing precious metal may
rebound as growth spurs record car sales and prompts  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to say the commodities bull market is intact.  The 1.6 million-ounce deficit seen by Standard Bank Plc
explains why prices for the metal used in catalytic converters
will rise 23 percent by Dec. 31, based on the median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey of 24 analysts and traders. Autocatalysts are
fitted to 95 percent of new cars and global sales will rise 5.1
percent to 76 million this year, according to Oxford, England-
based J.D. Power Automotive Forecasting.  While commodities plunged the most since 2008 in the first
week of May, prices are rebounding, with demand for cars
signaling that the global economy is still expanding. The supply
crunch in palladium is mirrored in copper, corn and crude oil,
prompting Goldman Sachs to predict a 20 percent return from
commodities in 12 months and Morgan Stanley to forecast the
highest-ever  oil prices .  “The long-term story is excellent,” said  Robin Bhar , a
London-based analyst at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and the most accurate
of 20 palladium forecasters surveyed by the  London  Bullion
Market Association in 2009. “With any commodity that gets a
very restricted supply base, you’re always going to get worries.
We will see stronger growth.”  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the biggest palladium producer,
will report its highest profit this year, according to analysts
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
sold a record number of cars in the first quarter while Nissan
Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn said May 12 he
expects to sell the most vehicles ever in 2011.  Gold and Silver  After rising more than fourfold from 2005 through the end
of last year, palladium fell 3 percent to $778 an ounce
this year by 5:49 p.m. in London today, lagging behind gold,
silver and platinum. It is also underperforming the 12 percent
advance in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities,
the 4.9 percent gain in the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities and the 2.5 percent return on Treasuries shown by a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  The decline accelerated in March after a magnitude-9
earthquake and 23-foot tsunami hit  Japan , forcing automakers led
by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to shut plants, deferring demand for about
90,000 ounces of platinum-group metals,  Barclays Capital  says.
Some losses will be recouped in the second half, said Anne-Laure Tremblay, a London-based analyst at BNP Paribas SA.  Mine Supply  Supply from mines and stockpiles will fall 5.7 percent to
6.78 million ounces in 2011, the fourth drop in six years,
according to Barclays. Autocatalyst demand will expand 6.2
percent to 5.47 million ounces, the most in 11 years, Barclays
says. Each catalytic converter contains about 4 grams (0.13 troy
ounce) of precious metals.  Palladium is mined mostly in  Russia  and  South Africa  and
found with other platinum-group metals. Companies are digging
ever-deeper to find ores containing decreasing amounts of metal,
with mining costs rising 30 percent in South Africa and 13
percent in Russia last year, according to UBS AG.  The anticipated commodities rally may be curbed if growth
falters.  Europe  is contending with a sovereign-debt crisis as
 Greece  seeks to persuade investors it can avert a default.  While Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled
April 27 the central bank will keep record monetary stimulus
when its $600 billion bond purchase program ends in June, he
didn’t pledge a third round of so-called quantitative easing.  U.S. Growth  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, less than forecast, Commerce Department figures
on May 26 showed. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development on May 25 said it expects the global economy to
expand 4.2 percent this year and 4.6 percent in 2012.  Commodity prices doubled since the start of 2009, driving
inflation higher and spurring at least two dozen nations and the
 European Central Bank  to raise rates this year, potentially
damping growth and demand for raw materials.  “We’ve probably seen highs in most metals,” said  David Wilson , an analyst at Societe Generale SA in London. “There is
a big macro concern weighing on the industrial metals. You will
see investors more nervous about holding onto positions in the
second half of the year.”  Speculators cut their net-long positions, or bets on higher
prices, across 18 commodity futures by about 25 percent since
October, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  Jewelry Sales  Slower economic growth and higher prices may also curb
sales of jewelry made with palladium. Demand fell 45 percent to
630,000 ounces since 2006 and may drop another 7.9 percent this
year, Barclays estimates.  A surge in interest from investors may compensate for that.
Purchases of coins and bars and exchange-traded products backed
by the metal jumped 74 percent to a record 1.09 million ounces
last year, according to London-based  Johnson Matthey Plc. (JMAT)   Production may also be less than forecast. Eskom Holdings
Ltd., which supplies 95 percent of electricity in South Africa,
said in April it doesn’t have the capacity to adequately
maintain its plants. Power cuts in January 2008 closed mines and
smelters for five days.  The last time palladium traded at the $955 predicted in the
Bloomberg survey was about a month after it reached a record
$1,125 in January 2001, following disruptions to Russian
shipments. Sales from Russian government stockpiles, the fourth-
largest source of supply last year, may now be running down.  Russian Shipments  Russian shipments to Switzerland, one of Europe’s two main
hubs for storing and trading precious metals, fell 12 percent to
about 500,000 ounces last year, the least in 15 years, Swiss
customs data show. Cargoes totaled 25,817 ounces in the first
four months, the data show. The stockpiles are a state secret.  The deficit forecast by Standard Bank would be the biggest
since at least 1979, according to data from Johnson Matthey,
which makes about a third of all autocatalysts. The canisters
have honeycomb-like surfaces that convert emissions into carbon
dioxide, water and nitrogen.  BMW, based in Munich, told investors May 4 that it sold
more than 382,000 cars in the first quarter, a record for the
period. Stuttgart-based  Daimler AG (DAI)  said April 13 that it expects
to move 1.3 million Mercedes-Benz and Smart cars this year, the
most ever. Nissan, based in Yokohama, Japan, will exceed the
record it set last year in 2011, Ghosn told investors on a
conference call this month.  Car Sales  More car sales mean more profit for Moscow-based Norilsk,
which mines about 43 percent of the world’s palladium. The
company will report net income of $6.12 billion this year,
compared with $5.13 billion a year earlier, the mean of eight
estimates shows. Seventeen of the 18 analysts covering the
shares and tracked by Bloomberg rate them a “buy” or “hold.”  The boom is being replicated across the mining industry as
commodity prices surge, with everyone from Melbourne-based BHP
Billiton Ltd. to London-based Rio Tinto Group to Zug,
Switzerland-based  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  forecast to make the most money
ever this year, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The economy around the world is doing OK and natural
resources are in short supply,” said Francis McAllister, chief
executive officer of Billings, Montana-based  Stillwater Mining
Co. (SWC) , the U.S.’s only palladium mining company. “It doesn’t
matter if you are talking about copper, iron ore, or platinum
and palladium.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  