-- 
Patek Philippe Poised to Unwind as Swiss Franc Breaks Out of Euro’s Orbit

-- B y   M a t t h i a s   W a b l   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-05-30T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/patek-philippe-poised-to-unwind-as-swiss-franc-breaks-out-of-euro-s-orbit.html
Silvy Gillhausen, a saleswoman at the
Zett Meyer watch store on Zurich’s Bahnhofstrasse, senses
trouble when clients from abroad pull out their phones.  “Some customers come in with prices saved in their cell
phones to compare them with ours,” she said standing next to a
display of IWC and Tag Heuer watches costing as much as 10,900
Swiss francs ($12,500). “Even when we give them 10 percent off,
it’s still cheaper in their home country.”  The franc’s 24 percent surge against the euro in the past
two years is giving Swiss companies an unprecedented headache as
higher prices for products from watches to chocolate make
consumers look for better deals in Germany or the U.S. The  Swiss
National Bank  abandoned attempts to stop the currency’s
appreciation that led to a 19.2 billion-franc loss in 2010.  Almost half of the corporate executives surveyed by the SNB 
said in January and February that they “experienced negative 
effects” from the franc. Machinery makers are most at risk 
because of “greatly reduced profit margins,” according to the 
SNB. While global leaders such as  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest 
food conglomerate, can mitigate losses by moving production 
abroad, smaller concerns are running out of options to cut costs 
and maintain margins.  “It’s a dangerous situation because there’s really nothing
we can do,” said Peter Widmer, president of Swiss Export, the
Zurich-based lobbying group that represents exporting companies.  Nightmare Scenario  Thierry Stern, the chairman of watchmaker  Patek Philippe  SA,
said in March that his home nation may be better off adopting
the euro as the franc’s appreciation hurts earnings.  “It’s a nightmare for everybody,” Stern said in an
interview. “We have to adapt.”  The franc is the best-performing major currency this year
relative to the dollar and euro as it’s perceived by investors
as a safe haven from debt-laden nations such as Greece, Ireland
and  Portugal , which required emergency financial rescues from
the European Union in the past year. The franc rose 2.8 percent
against the euro in 2011 and 9.8 percent against the dollar.  History shows the strong currency may hurt the Swiss
economy as a 10 percent increase in the real exchange rate is
“usually linked to a 15 percent plunge in exports,” said Jan Amrit Poser, chief economist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich. The
franc’s appreciation has thus far had minimal effect on the
nation’s gross domestic product as “most Swiss products are so
specialized that there is little impact on exports,” he said.  Economists at UBS AG, Credit Suisse Group AG and the KOF
research institute in Zurich agree with Poser.  Surging Exports  Exports account for more than 50 percent of the Swiss
economy, compared with 46 percent for  Germany . The Alpine
nation’s current-account surplus -- the broadest measure of
trade because it includes investment -- may shrink to 11 percent
of the economy this year from 14 percent in 2010, according to
the median of nine estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “If the franc appreciates by 10 percent, GDP growth is
lowered by about 2 percentage points if one doesn’t factor in
the positive effects,” said Urs Mueller, the chief economist at
the BAKBasel institute in Basel. “The current impact though is
lower because of the positive effects from lower  interest rates 
and reduced import prices.”  Mopac AG , which makes packaging material for food companies,
cut wages by about 10 percent for its 260 workers in February
because of the franc. Salaries may be adjusted every three
months depending on the exchange rate, said Hans Hartmann of the
Unia trade union, which is representing employees in a complaint
against the Wasen-based company in central  Switzerland  near Bern.  Employer’s Risk  “Exchange-rate fluctuations are a risk that should be
taken on by the company’s owner,” Hartmann said. “Companies
should have reserves to bridge them in such phases.”  Mopac is offering to pay its pre-February wages if the
euro-franc rate returns to 1.50, a level last seen in 2009,
Chief Executive Officer Rainer Fuechslin said in an interview.  “If we hadn’t cut wages, we would have had to move our
production to the euro zone,” Fuechslin said, adding that Mopac
is the biggest employer in the Emmental region. “We did this
for our employees.”  The franc traded at 1.2151 against the euro yesterday after
touching a record 1.2102 on May 27. The currency reached a high
of 84.65 centimes against the dollar the same day.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the maker of Baume & Mercier,
IWC and Cartier watches and jewelry, said May 19 that the rising
franc reduced its profit margin. The company still plans to add
as many as 1,800 jobs to satisfy demand from emerging markets,
including  China .  Lower Profits  Sonova Holding AG, a Staefa-based maker of hearing aids,
will put its earnings at risk rather than lower the wages of its
research and production staff, said interim Chief Financial
Officer Paul Thompson in an interview. The company’s “long-term
view” will keep it in Switzerland, he said, adding that
Sonova’s profit will be reduced by 60 million francs in fiscal
2012 unless exchange rates improve.  “If you have loads of euro sales and lots of Swiss franc
costs, you’re getting killed,” Jon Cox, head of Swiss research
at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich, said in an interview.  While companies such as Nestle or chocolate producer  Lindt
& Spruengli AG (LISN)  are able to offset pressure on margins because
they have plants in the euro zone, converting euro sales reduces
revenue in francs, he said.  OC Oerlikon Corp. AG, a textile machinery maker, gets about
65 percent of its revenue in euros, while the European currency
accounts for about 60 percent of sales for Straumann Holding AG,
a dental implant maker, Cox said.  Low Unemployment  Despite the strong franc, Swiss unemployment is at 3.1
percent, the lowest since February 2009, and leading economic
indicators from the KOF research institute stayed at the highest
in almost five years this month. In the euro zone, the jobless
rate was 9.9 percent at the end of March.  The Swiss economy may expand 2.7 percent this year and 2.5
percent in 2012, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said May 25. The euro-region economy may grow 2
percent this year and next, the Paris-based group said.  While concerns abound about “the negative consequences”
of the franc, orders for machines and electrical equipment
advanced 27 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
industry association Swissmem said May 24.  Hoteliers say tourists from the U.S., the euro region and
 Asia  are opting for cheaper rooms in countries such as France
or  Austria .  Domestic Focus  “We concentrate our marketing on Switzerland rather than
the European market,” said Juerg Zuercher, managing director of
the Sunstar Parkhotel in Davos, which is operating with about 5
percent fewer employees.  Swiss overnight stays may drop 1.1 percent this year after
increasing 1.8 percent in 2010, with the number of bookings by
foreign guests declining 2.5 percent, the BAK  Basel  Economics
research institute forecast.  When visitors do come, they often spend less. Architect
Mauro Portela, 43, and lawyer Fred Ferreira, 25, from  Brazil 
said they were surprised by the high prices in Switzerland.  “We didn’t know the differences between the prices in
different countries in  Europe ,” said Portela, who traveled
through  Spain  before coming to Switzerland. He may reconsider
his original plan to buy a Cartier watch here.  “All of Europe is expensive, but especially Switzerland,”
Portela said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthias Wabl in Zurich at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  