-- 
Pension Bulls Buy Bonds at Fastest Pace in ’11 on Inflation: Mexico Credit

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-05-30T22:11:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/pension-bulls-buy-bonds-at-fastest-pace-in-11-on-inflation-mexico-credit.html
Mexican pension funds are stepping up
their purchases of longer-maturity bonds at the fastest pace
since December as inflation holds near a five-year low.  Pensioners, the second-largest fixed-income investors in
the country, boosted their holdings of fixed-rate bonds due in
more than 10 years by 4.3 percent to 182.4 billion pesos ($15.7
billion) in April from March, according to  the most recent
central bank figures . The purchases mark a reversal from the
first three months of the year, when they cut holdings by 2.6
percent on concern consumer price increases were set to quicken.  While surging commodity prices have fanned inflation in
 developing countries  from  China  to  Brazil , cost of living
increases in Mexico have slowed, allowing the central bank to
keep borrowing costs at a record low. Annual inflation eased to
3.3 percent in mid-May from 4.4 percent in 2010 and touched a
five-year low of 3.04 percent in March.  “It’s a positive signal,” Caroline Gorman, who helps
oversee $7.6 billion in assets, including peso-denominated
bonds, at GAM Ltd., said in a telephone interview in  London .
“It’s a comfort for us that there’s a backstop local bid for
Mexican bonds, which is one of our favorites. Inflation has been
well behaved.”  Yields on the government’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024
sank 75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage point, since the end of
March to a five-month low of 7.09 percent, according to Banco
Santander SA. Yields on 10-year U.S. Treasuries, the benchmark
for emerging-markets bonds, fell 40 basis points to 3.07 percent
while those on similar-maturity Brazilian notes declined 48
basis points to 12.48 percent during that time.  ‘Very Good’  Mexican peso-denominated debt has returned 4.5 percent
since the end of March in local-currency terms, triple the
average gain of 1.5 percent for emerging-market bonds through
May 27, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The Mexican
securities lost 0.9 percent in the first quarter, the worst
start to a year since 2005.  Consumer prices plunged 0.75 percent in the first two weeks
of May as the cost of food and electricity dropped, according to
the central bank. Prices fell 0.01 percent in April, the first
decline in 10 months.  The mid-May figure “is a very good number,” central bank
Governor Agustin Carstens, a candidate to head the  International
Monetary Fund , said in a May 24 interview. Falling bond yields
are “consistent with the fact that Mexico had a better-than-
expected inflation performance,” he said.  Foreigners’ Purchases  Policymakers kept their benchmark rate at 4.5 percent on
May 27 for a record 19th straight meeting. Inflation is “still
within the forecast” of policy makers and there has been some
“moderation in the pace” of the economic expansion, the bank
said in a statement following the meeting.  Banco de Mexico  is
the only major central bank in  Latin America  that hasn’t raised
 interest rates  this year.  Yields on the TIIE interest-rate futures contract maturing
in December fell five basis points to 5.03 percent last week,
indicating traders expect the central bank will boost its
benchmark rate by that month. As recently as April, they
predicted an increase in borrowing costs by July.  Pension funds, known in Mexico as Afores, invested 650
billion pesos in  government bonds  as of May 16, up from 626
billion last year, according to the central bank. Foreigners,
the biggest buyers of the debt, boosted their holdings to 801
billion pesos, a 34.6 percent jump from December.  “Pension funds are chasing the market,” Pablo Cisilino,
who helps manage $22 billion in emerging-market debt at Stone
Harbor Investment in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“They’ve been extending duration. Inflation is under control
and rates are attractive.”  Narrowing Gap  Guillermo Garcia Ramos, a  fund manager  at Pensionissste,
the country’s second-largest pension fund by total assets,
declined to comment. An official at  BBVA Bancomer  who asked not
to be identified declined to comment. Bancomer controls  Mexico ’s
third-largest pension fund. An official at Afore Banamex who
asked not to be identified declined to comment. Banamex is the
country’s biggest fund.  “The statements of the bank as well as recent inflation
data have helped to consolidate the sense that in reality we
don’t currently have real concerns over inflation,” Alejandro Diaz de Leon, head of public debt at the  Finance Ministry , said
in a telephone interview from Mexico City. “This all gave way
to a rally due to renewed appetite from the Afores as well as a
renewed appetite from foreigners.”  The yield gap between two- and 10-year bonds has narrowed
to 160 basis points from 207 in February, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Biggest Conviction’  “The biggest conviction is that there’s still room for
some more flattening of the curve,” Guilherme Maciel de Barros,
who oversees $1.1 billion in emerging-market assets at Lombard
Odier Darier Hentsch & Cie in Geneva, said in a telephone
interview. “Inflation is still quite contained and the economy
still has some slack.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point to 147 at
5:49 p.m.  New York  time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI+ Index.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was little changed at 105 basis points, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Commodities Rally  The peso was little changed at 11.6084 per dollar.  Pension funds boosted their holdings of fixed-rate bonds to
21.5 percent of their 1.429 trillion pesos of assets in April,
from 21.2 percent in March, the first increase since October,
according to the regulator, known as Consar. Bonds maturing in
2023 and beyond accounted for about 68 percent of the debt
holdings, up from 62 percent at the end of March, according to
the central bank.  ING Groep NV is recommending clients reduce holdings of
longer-maturity bonds because higher commodity prices may fuel
inflation in Mexico. The UBS Bloomberg Constant Maturity
Commodity Index has climbed 4.9 percent this year, extending
gains over the past two years to 49 percent.  “Despite the fragile economic outlook, upward inflation
risks linger globally,” ING economists led by Debora Luna and
Ezequiel Garcia wrote in a note to clients on May 25. “Market
participants assuming Mexico will remain isolated may be
unwise.”  U.S. Growth  Luna declined to comment further when reached by phone.  Slowing growth in the U.S., which buys about 80 percent of
Mexican exports, is prompting pension funds to bet inflation in
the Latin American country will remain in check, said  Siobhan Morden , an emerging markets debt strategist with RBS Securities.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.8 percent annual rate in
the first quarter, less than the 2.2 percent median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey and down from 3.1 percent in the last
three months of 2010.  “Everything comes back to the high correlation with the
U.S.,” Morden said in a telephone interview from  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “With the concern about the U.S. growth, there’s
implicit concern about Mexico growth. Lower inflation just
reaffirms that there’s no rush to hike” rates, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  