-- 
Philippine Economy Grew 4.9% in First Quarter

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 
2011-05-30T04:33:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/philippine-economy-grew-4-9-in-first-quarter.html
The Philippine economy expanded at
the slowest pace since 2009 last quarter as exports eased and
 government spending  faltered.  Gross domestic product increased 4.9 percent from a year
earlier based on 2000 prices, compared with a 6.1 percent gain
in the three months through December, the National Statistical
Coordination Board said in Manila today. The median estimate of
13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for growth to slow
to 5.1 percent, using 1985 as the base year.  Expansion is cooling in Asian nations including  Malaysia 
and  South Korea  as a slowing recovery in the U.S. and a
recession in Japan cut demand for exports such as Philippine-
made  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  semiconductors. Growth will likely
quicken this quarter as the government catches up on spending,
Economic Planning Secretary Cayetano Paderanga said today.  “The fundamentals for strong domestic-led expansion are
still in place,” said Vincent Conti, a Singapore-based analyst
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “Though declines
in government spending will have some negative effects on growth,
these will be more than made up for by the boost in investor
confidence brought about by fiscal consolidation.”  The  Philippines  reported a  budget surplus  in April as
revenue rose, aiding President  Benigno Aquino ’s efforts to
narrow the  budget deficit  from a record 314 billion pesos in
2010. Moody’s Investors Service may raise the country’s credit
rating “sooner rather than later,” Assistant Vice President
Christian de Guzman said last month after the government kept
its first-quarter budget shortfall below target.  Stocks Climb  Benchmark three-year bond yields fell to a two-week low
today. The peso rose for a third day after sliding to an eight-
week low last week. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index rose 0.5
percent today and has climbed more than 2 percent this year.  “We are prepared for any uncertainty or economic
downturn,”  Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. (BDO)  President Nestor Tan said
in a briefing last week, citing tension in the  Middle East  and
the Japan earthquake. Loan growth will probably be moderate as
remittances sent home by Filipinos overseas ease, he said.  Under-spending by the government and the slowdown in global
trade “constricted” the economy in the first quarter, National
Statistical Coordination Board Secretary General Romulo Virola
said in Manila today. The government will review its goal to
expand the economy by 7 percent to 8 percent this year,
Paderanga said.  Inflation Pressure  Inflation in the Philippines accelerated to a 12-month high
in April, prompting the central bank to increase its benchmark
interest rate for a second time this year to 4.5 percent on May
5. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is prepared to take additional
action if necessary to meet the inflation target of 3 percent to
5 percent for this year, Governor Amando Tetangco said last week.  A further increase in rates may damp economic expansion,
Virola said today. Still, the government will “pump prime” the
economy starting this quarter and growth will improve in the
remainder of the year as power and infrastructure investments
come in, President Aquino said today.  Aquino will speak to investors in Brunei this week, his
eighth overseas trip since he took office in June, as he seeks
funds to build more than 700 billion pesos ($16 billion) of
roads, airports, and schools to boost the economy. Aquino aims
to expand the economy by as much as 8 percent annually from 2011
to boost incomes in a nation where the  World Bank  estimates one
out of four people live on less than $1.25 a day.  Exports Falter  Asia ’s growth still outpaces the rest of the world, as
sovereign credit woes in Europe deepen while  Japan ’s economy
shrank last quarter after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
disrupted production, sending the nation to its third recession
in a decade.  Philippine export growth slowed to a 17-month low in March,
with shipments abroad rising 4.1 percent from a year earlier.
Overseas sales account for about 30 percent of the $161 billion
economy.  Remittances  from the more than 8 million Filipinos living
in countries including the U.S. and  Saudi Arabia  gained 5.9
percent in the first three months of the year to $4.6 billion.
Government expenditure fell 11.6 percent in the first four
months of the year, a  report  showed last week, undermining
Aquino’s goal to increase spending to a record in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap at   cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  