-- 
Philippine Peso Gains for Third Day as Faster Growth Pledged

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-05-30T09:12:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/philippine-peso-gains-as-report-shows-rising-gdp-correct-.html
The  Philippine peso  advanced for a
third day as the government pledged faster economic growth with
state spending.  The nation’s economy grew 4.9 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, compared with a revised 6.1 percent
expansion in the previous three months, the government reported
today. Remittances, which account for more than 10 percent of
the economy, increased 4.1 percent in March from a year earlier,
the central bank said May 16. The peso weakened 1.2 percent this
month as  Europe ’s debt crisis spurred investors to favor safe-
haven assets.  “Fundamentals are solid” even as government spending
faltered in the last quarter, said Marcelo Ayes, senior vice
president at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. in  Manila . “The
peso seems to be dictated not much by internal news, but
external news. The elevated  risk aversion  is still there due to
uncertainty over Greece.”  The peso appreciated 0.1 percent to 43.315 per dollar at
the 4 p.m. close in Manila, according to prices from inter-
dealer broker Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency touched 43.585 on
May 25, the weakest level since March 29.  Philippine economic growth will probably quicken this
quarter as the government catches up on spending, Economic
Planning Secretary Cayetano Paderanga told reporters today in
Manila.  The government will “pump prime” the economy starting
this quarter and growth will improve in the remainder of the
year, President  Benigno Aquino  also said today. Power and
infrastructure investment will be coming in and crises in the
Middle East and Japan weighed on the domestic economy, Aquino
said.  The yield on the 6.25 percent note due January 2014 held at
4.95 percent, according to Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 