-- 
Poland’s First-Quarter Growth Probably Stayed Near Fastest Pace Since 2008

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-05-30T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/polish-gdp-growth-probably-stayed-near-fastest-pace-since-2008.html
Poland ’s first-quarter economic
growth remained near the fastest pace since 2008, driven by
private investment, a survey of economists showed.  Gross domestic product rose an annual 4.4 percent, compared
with 4.5 percent in the previous quarter, according to the
median estimate of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The data
will be published at 10 a.m. in Warsaw. The October-December
figure was the highest since the third quarter of 2008.  “The long-awaited recovery in private investment has
probably started, boosting economic growth,” said  Piotr Kalisz ,
chief economist at Citigroup Inc.’s Bank Handlowy unit in
Warsaw. “Companies are making more use of their production
capacity as the export outlook improves.”  Polish companies grew more optimistic about their outlook
in the first three months as exports orders picked up, a central
bank  survey  showed last week.  Germany ’s economy,  Europe ’s
largest and the main destination of Polish exports, expanded 1.5
percent in the first quarter, the fastest pace in almost a year.  Poland’s economic growth this year may accelerate this year
to 4 percent from 3.8 percent in 2010, according to the
government. The  International Monetary Fund  this month raised
its GDP forecast for Poland to 4 percent.  The  central bank  raised borrowing costs in May for the
third time this year to curb inflation expectations as higher
prices and rising employment may trigger wage demands.  Exports Surge  Poland’s euro-denominated exports rose an annual 15.5
percent in the first quarter, according to the Statistical
Office, with sales to Germany up 16 percent. Industrial output
increased 9.2 percent from the same period a year earlier.  “Furniture exports to Western Europe grew rapidly in the
first quarter as did domestic demand, which surprised us since
this used to be our slack season,” Wojciech Gatkiewicz, the
chief executive officer of  Pfleiderer Grajewo SA (GRJ) , said on May
10. Poland’s biggest chipboard maker boosted its first-quarter
sales by 32 percent to 402.9 million zloty ($145 million).  Companies increased their debt by 2.8 percent in the first
quarter to 220.6 billion zloty, while corporate deposits shrank
by a tenth to 80.4 billion zloty, according central bank data.  Fixed investments probably grew an annual 10.8 percent
between January and March, compared with 1.3 percent in the
fourth quarter. according to a Bloomberg survey of eight
economists. The acceleration was partly due to an 11.6 percent
decline in investments in the year-earlier period.  ‘Finally Growing’  “The dwindling ratio of idle capacity and rising corporate
borrowing suggest investment spending is finally growing after
two years of shrinkage,” said Aleksandra Swiatkowska, an
economist at PKO Bank Polski SA in Warsaw.  Private consumption rose 3.8 percent, according to the
median estimate of eight economists, slowing from 4 percent in
the previous quarter. Domestic demand grew 4.8 percent after a
6.3 percent annual gain in the fourth quarter, according to the
survey.  Consumer spending  stayed “relatively strong,” even as it
failed to match the fourth-quarter pace, which was spurred by a
value-added tax increase on Jan. 1, said Monika Kurtek, chief
economist at Bank Pocztowy in Warsaw.  “The market’s been improving for more than six months and
we can see it in our sales,” said Dariusz Pachla, deputy CEO of
 LPP SA (LPP) , Poland’s largest publicly traded clothing retailer,
which boosted first-quarter revenue by an annual 18 percent.  Wage Effect  Average corporate employment rose an annual 4.1 percent
between January and March, matching the increase in average
corporate wages, according to the Statistical Office.  The central bank is monitoring wage pressures and the
possibility that global price increases trigger “second-round”
effects through wage demands, Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, a monetary
policy maker, said on May 11 after the Narodowy Bank Polski
raised the benchmark seven-day rate for a second month to 4.25
percent.  “If the first-quarter data come in stronger than expected,
they may goad the central bank to raise rates in June for the
third consecutive month,” said Adam Antoniak, senior economist
at Bank BPH in Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  