-- 
Qatar Regulator Rejects Vodafone Qatar’s Claim Against Qtel

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-05-30T15:51:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/qatar-regulator-rejects-vodafone-qatar-s-claim-against-qtel.html
Qatar’s regulator rejected a claim by
Vodafone Qatar QSC that  Qatar Telecom  QSC, a former monopoly and
the country’s largest company by revenue, engaged in anti-
competitive practices when pricing international calls.  The Regulatory Authority of the Supreme Council of
Information and Communication Technology, called ictQATAR,
turned down the claim that Qatar Telecom, known as Qtel, offered
international telephone service at rates below cost.  “Qtel has not engaged in anti-competitive behavior with
respect to its pricing for international calls,” the regulator
said today in a statement on its website. “IctQATAR therefore
rejected the claim of Vodafone and considers the matter
closed.”  A Qtel spokesman was not available when Bloomberg called
for comment on the decision.  “IctQatar has made their determination following a
regulatory investigation, which  Vodafone Qatar (VFQS)  respects,” Lana
Khachan, a spokeswoman for Vodafone Qatar, said in an e-mail.  The regulator’s announcement marks the second time in a
year that ictQatar intervened publicly in a dispute between the
two companies. It ruled in July that Qtel broke the law when it
partnered with Virgin Mobile to offer mobile telephone services.
That decision came after Vodafone Qatar threatened to take legal
action against ictQatar for allowing the partnership.  Vodafone Qatar, a partnership between the state-controlled
 Qatar Foundation  and Vodafone Group LLC, entered the Qatari
mobile phone market in 2009, breaking what had been Qtel’s
monopoly in the country. Vodafone Qatar said May 25 that its
customer base had reached 45 percent of the Persian Gulf
nation’s population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  