-- 
Rand Weakens for First Day in Three  on Europe Debt, Global Growth Concern

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-05-30T15:24:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/rand-strengthens-for-a-third-day-on-commodity-prices-massmart-investment.html
The rand weakened for the first day
in three against the dollar as concern European governments will
struggle to resolve the region’s debt crisis and a slowing
global recovery sapped demand for higher-risk assets.  The rand declined as much as 0.3 percent to 6.9476 per
dollar and traded at 6.9426 as of 4:27 p.m. in Johannesburg. It
slipped 0.2 percent to 9.9067 per euro.  The euro declined against all 16 major peers after Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said he’ll press ahead with new
austerity measures even as he failed to win backing from
opposition parties. U.S. employers probably hired fewer workers
in May and factory orders in the world’s largest economy grew at
the slowest pace in seven months, economists said before reports
this week. The rand often tracks the euro, the currency of most
of South  Africa ’s trade.  “News reports over the weekend have only cast more rather
than less doubt over the prospects for  Greece  and its ability to
pay back debt, whilst the deteriorating trend in the economic
data out of the major economic centers of the world remains
intact,” Tradition Analytics researchers led by Johannesburg-
based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note. “Levels of
 risk aversion  remain elevated.”  With markets in the U.S. and U.K. closed for public
holidays, trading volumes were low, which tended to exacerbate
rand moves.  “Due to the public holidays in the U.S. and U.K., we
should expect volatility through the rest of the week,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in a research note. “Large
two-way risks are evident on the dollar-rand.”  Bonds Rise  Bonds gained, driving yields to the lowest levels in more
than four months, before the release of growth data tomorrow
which may show a recovery in Africa’s biggest economy is
slowing.  Gross domestic product expanded an annualized 4.2 percent,
down from 4.4 percent in the final quarter of 2010, according to
the median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Statistics  South Africa  will publish the data at 11:30 a.m. in
Pretoria tomorrow.  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 climbed 22 cents to
89.95 rand, driving the yield down four basis points, or 0.04
percent, to 8.26 percent, the lowest on a closing basis since
Jan. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  