-- 
Reliance Communications Profit Falls on Wireless Competition From Vodafone

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-05-30T18:31:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/reliance-communications-net-falls-by-record-on-competition-1-.html
Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , the
worst performer on India’s benchmark index this year, reported
its lowest annual profit in at least four years as competition
cut network usage.  Net income fell 71 percent to 13.5 billion rupees ($299
million) in the year ended March 31, from 46.6 billion rupees a
year  earlier , the Mumbai-based company said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. That compared with the 15.2 billion-rupee
average of 31 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The results yesterday underscore the challenges facing
billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s flagship company, as competition
intensifies following the start of number portability this year
and the arrival of  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  in the
world’s second-largest market for wireless services. Reliance
added fewer customers last quarter than smaller rival  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) ’s Indian unit, the nation’s third-largest mobile phone
company by subscribers.  “Minutes on the network have been coming down,” said
Abhishek Gupta, an analyst at IDFC Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.
“You can blame churn for that, or people shifting to the other
guys.” The brokerage rates Reliance shares “underperform.”  Reliance, India’s largest mobile phone company after  Bharti
Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , added 10.1 million connections, while Vodafone
added 10.3 million. Reliance had 136 million subscribers at the
end of March, according to data from the nation’s
telecommunications regulator.  Falling User Revenue  Net income fell 86 percent to 1.69 billion rupees in the
three months ended March 31, from 12.2 billion rupees a year
 earlier , the Mumbai-based company said. That compared with the
3.14 billion-rupee average of 19 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg and is the seventh consecutive drop in quarterly
earnings.  Average revenue per user, a key metric in the
telecommunications industry, declined 23 percent to 107 rupees
per wireless customer each month from 139 rupees a year earlier.
The number of minutes each client spent on Reliance’s network in
a month slumped 24 percent to 241 from 318 in March 2010.  Owning multiple mobile-phone connections is common in
 India , where  Japan ’s NTT DoCoMo and  Norway ’s Telenor sparked a
price war in 2009 that pared call rates to as low as half a U.S.
penny a minute.  Reliance rose 2.9 percent to 87.55 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close of trading in Mumbai yesterday, while the Bombay Stock
Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive Index, or Sensex, fell 0.2
percent. The stock has lost 40 percent this year, compared with
an 11 percent decline in the Sensex and Bharti’s 3.5 percent
climb.  Net Debt  Reliance’s debt exceeded cash and equivalents by 320
billion rupees as of the end of March from 199 billion rupees a
year earlier, according to the phone operator.  Reliance will spend 15 billion rupees on capital
expenditure in the year ending March 2012, said Syed Safawi,
president of the company’s wireless business, in a call with
analysts yesterday. The spending will be funded by internal
funds, he said.  The company was in talks to sell a stake or hold an initial
public offering of its mobile-phone tower unit, after
negotiations to sell it to GTL Infrastructure Ltd. collapsed on
Aug. 31 with neither side attempting to extend the deadline.  The transaction would result in a “significant” reduction
of debt, Reliance had said.  The board had also approved a separate plan to sell a 26
percent stake in the company at an “appropriate” premium to
the market price, to a strategic buyer or a private equity firm,
the company said in an e-mailed statement on June 6.  Second to  China   The Indian wireless market is forecast by researcher
 Gartner Inc.  to exceed 993 million users by the end of 2014.
India had 812 million mobile-phone accounts in March, according
to the nation’s phone regulator, second only to China’s market
in size.  Three officials of the Reliance Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group
are among nine people charged in April and subsequently arrested
by India’s Central Bureau of Investigation in connection with
its probe of a government sale of wireless permits. A Reliance
ADA Group e-mailed statement said its three employees deny the
charges and have a legal presumption of innocence pending the
completion of a trial.  Seventeen of the 42 analysts tracked by Bloomberg recommend
selling Reliance shares, 15 have a “hold” or equivalent
rating, and 10 make a recommendation for buying the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in  Mumbai  at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  