-- 
Renault CEO Ghosn Bows to France as State Widens Role Following Spy Affair

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-05-31T14:53:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/renault-said-to-appoint-nissan-s-tavares-as-second-in-command-to-ceo-ghosn.html
Renault SA (RNO)  Chief Executive Officer
Carlos Ghosn agreed to make development of upscale cars for
French factories a “priority” as the government steps up its
influence in the wake of a botched spy investigation.  Renault, based in Boulogne-Billancourt near Paris, named
 Carlos Tavares  as Ghosn’s deputy late yesterday. The French
state, the carmaker’s biggest shareholder with a 15 percent
stake, made support for the appointment conditional on strategy
changes, including taking a stronger lead in its alliance with
Nissan Motor Co., people familiar with the situation said.  “If it’s this hard just to get your man in place, it
suggests we’ll see more, rather than less, government influence
going forward,” London-based Credit Suisse analyst Erich Hauser
said.  France  is a “relatively small shareholder with a
disproportionate say over strategy, which has to be a concern
for other investors.”  Tavares, 52, head of the Americas region for Nissan, will
replace Patrick Pelata, who quit over his role in the dismissal
of three executives wrongfully accused of espionage in a
mishandled internal probe. To gain state support for the
appointment, Ghosn, who also runs Nissan, agreed to devote more
time to Renault and boost French production, the people said.  Renault rose as much as 86 cents, or 2.2 percent, to 39.65
euros and was up 1.3 percet of 4:51 p.m. in Paris trading,
paring the stock’s decline this year to 9.7 percent -- the worst
performer on the 14-member STOXX 600 Automobiles and Parts
Index.  France Presence  Ghosn said he intends to be “more present in France from
now on,” in an interview published today in French daily Le
Parisien and confirmed by Renault. The CEO will oversee
development of models that are more upscale than its bread-and-
butter compacts. The company also plans to invest in Chinese
factories and consolidate OAO AvtoVAZ as a “Renault
subsidiary,” he said.  Renault, which already holds 25 percent of AvtoVAZ, had
previously said its alliance with Nissan would take a
controlling stake in the Russian carmaker through a shared
investment in an additional 25 percent holding. Renault owns
43.4 percent of Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan.  Announcing the management changes yesterday, Renault said
that improving competitiveness and “the development of sites in
France will be a priority.”  The emphasis on larger, French-made models is at odds with
Renault’s recent sales growth, which has been underpinned by an
expansion of the budget Dacia brand. A three-year plan unveiled
by Ghosn in February called for further expansion of Dacia.  ‘Not Looking for Big’  The development of larger models also runs counter to
shrinking demand for big cars, as environmental pressures steer
consumers toward small, fuel-efficient vehicles, said Carlos Da
Silva, a Paris-based analyst with IHS Automotive.  “Even with the best models in the segment, your volumes
would struggle because the market’s just not looking for big
cars from mainstream manufacturers,” Da Silva said. “That’s a
very tricky equation for  Carlos Ghosn .”  French plants have to contend with the auto sector’s third-
highest labor costs after  Germany  and  Belgium , according to data
from Germany’s VDA automakers’ association. Workers in France
are eight times more expensive than in  Romania , where the Dacia
brand is based.  Ghosn and Philippe Varin, his counterpart at PSA Peugeot
Citroen, have repeatedly urged the government to improve the
competitiveness of French car exports by reducing labor taxes.  ‘No Support’  Rather than a renewed push into upscale models, Renault’s
energy would be “better spent in emerging markets or finding
the right size and structure in France,” Credit Suisse’s Hauser
said. “They’ve tried it before, and the brand doesn’t seem to
support it.”  As Ghosn increases his involvement at Renault, the No. 2
position will be slightly reduced from the full operational
oversight the CEO had ceded to Pelata in 2008, one person said,
adding that details of Tavares’s responsibilities will be
decided in the coming weeks. Pelata stepped down as chief
operating officer last month over his role in the January
dismissal of three senior executives.  Tavares joined Renault in 1981 after graduating from
France’s Ecole Centrale and moved to Nissan in 2004 as program
director for compact cars, rising to executive vice president
the following year.  In his most recent role, Tavares, a Portuguese citizen, cut
global manufacturing costs by expanding production in  Mexico  and
bid successfully for $1.6 billion in U.S. Energy Department
funding for an electric-car battery plant.  Nissan Chief Performance Officer Colin Dodge will replace
Tavares as Americas chief, adding the region to his current
responsibilities for  Africa , the  Middle East ,  India  and  Europe ,
the company said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  