-- 
Resourcehouse Takes IPO to Public in Ad Blitz

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-05-30T05:53:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/resourcehouse-may-seek-a-1-9-billion-in-debt.html
Resourcehouse Ltd., Australian
billionaire  Clive Palmer ’s  iron ore  and coal company, began its
latest bid to sell shares in Hong Kong with full-page ads for
the $3.6 billion offering across at least five papers.  The advertisement blitz in Chinese and English-language
newspapers including Wen Wei Po, Economic Journal and Apple
Daily may attract retail investors in the initial public
offering. The prospectus today said the IPO may be followed by a
A$1.9 billion ($2 billion) debt sale to a Chinese company.  Palmer has pulled the IPO, which values Resourcehouse at as
much as $7.8 billion based on the share prices range, at least
three times since first announcing plans in 2009. The 57-year-
old law school dropout who made his fortune in real estate,
doesn’t expect Resourcehouse to turn a profit until production
at its coal and iron ore projects begins in 2014 or 2015.  “The media campaign is designed to attract retail
investors into the IPO,”  Andrew Sullivan , director of
institutional sales trading at OSK Securities  Hong Kong  Ltd.,
said by phone. “The trouble with this one is the fact that
they’ve pulled it before, so they probably want to re-emphasize
it and make sure people are aware that it’s going to go ahead
this time.”  The company plans to sell at least 5.7 billion shares at
HK$4.48 (57.6 cents) to HK$4.93 each and may sell 857 million
more shares through an over-allotment option.  Palmer, who timed the IPO to take advantage of near-record
prices for iron ore and coal, will retain a 53.67 percent stake
in the company if the over allotment option isn’t exercised. The
shares are expected to start trading June 10.  “The Chinese need a lot of iron ore and coal in their
urbanization,”  Lucinda Chan , division director and head of
Asian business at Macquarie Private Wealth in Sydney, said by
phone. “Resourcehouse should get good demand.”  Chinese Partner  Resourcehouse  wants at least one Chinese company to provide
or arrange debt to fund about 70 percent of the cost of the
building the initial stage of the China First iron ore project,
the Brisbane, Australia-based company said in the prospectus.
Any financing deal needs the approval of Mineralogy Pty, a
closely held company chaired by Palmer, it said.  The first stage of the iron ore project in  Western
Australia  may cost A$2.7 billion to develop, according to the
prospectus.  About $2.4 billion of the IPO proceeds will be put toward
its $8.6 billion  China  First coal project in Queensland state on
the opposite side of Australia. It has received a non-binding
letter of intent from Export-Import Bank of China to provide
credit for up to 85 percent of the construction contract cost,
 Resourcehouse  said.  First Fortune  BOC International Holdings Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG are managing the sale.  Resourcehouse expects to report a loss in the year ending
June 30, 2011.  A licensed real estate agent and owner of the  Gold Coast 
United soccer team, Palmer retired at 29 after he’d amassed a
fortune of about A$40 million through real estate investment on
the Gold Coast, a tourist strip with 70 kilometers (44 miles) of
beaches. He came out of retirement two years later to buy the
Australian assets of U.S.-based Hanna Mining Co.  He’s  Australia ’s fifth-richest person, worth A$5.1 billion,
according to Business Review Weekly’s latest annual rich 200
list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  