-- 
Rising Rents Risk U.S. Inflation as Fed Restraint Questioned

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-05-31T13:47:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/rising-rents-risk-higher-u-s-inflation-as-fed-s-rate-restraint-questioned.html
For all the attention given to almost
$4-a-gallon gas, the biggest threat to containing U.S. inflation
may be the shift away from homeownership, which is pushing up
the cost of leases across the nation’s 38 million rented
residences.  Shelter represents about 40 percent of the consumer price
index excluding food and energy and accounted for almost one
quarter of the 1.3 percentage point rise in April. That share
has grown as falling home prices shake Americans’ confidence in
housing as an investment.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues
say they will hold  interest rates  at record lows for an
“extended period,” based on an assessment that slack in the
economy from 9 percent unemployment will help subdue  core
inflation  and any threat of accelerating prices likely will be
“transitory.” Not everyone agrees with that judgment.  “They should have looked at rents,” said  Maury Harris ,
chief U.S. economist in New York at UBS Securities LLC, whose
team at UBS was the most accurate inflation forecaster over 2009
and 2010, according to Bloomberg calculations. “They’re putting
too much weight on the ‘slack is all that matters’ theory. It
matters but, for heaven’s sake, it’s not all that matters.”  Housing has become “a contributor to inflation, and it
continues to rise,” agreed Bruce McCain, chief investment
strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland ,
with $22 billion in assets under management. That’s partly why
he’s advising clients to look at “specifically, a heavier mix
of equities, and maybe the use of TIPS to mitigate the effects
inflation could have over 10 years or longer.”  Investor Expectations  Investor expectations of rising prices in the next decade,
as measured by the spread between Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities and nominal bonds, have fallen to 2.28 percent from
2.66 percent on April 11, the year-to-date high.  “When you look at the longer-term portion of a bond
portfolio, consider pretty carefully the ravaging effects that
inflation could have,” McCain said in an interview. He
estimates that rents have accounted for about 1 percentage point
of the last decade’s 2.4 percentage point rise in prices and
soon may revert to or overshoot this trend.  “The worse it gets for apartment rentals, the more you’re
going to see that number adding to the overall inflation rate,”
he said.  Preferred Gauge  Harris calculates that prices excluding food and energy
have risen at an annual rate of 2.1 percent so far this year
based on the  consumer price index . The Fed’s preferred gauge,
the Department of Commerce personal-consumption expenditure
index, rose 1 percent in April from a year earlier. Including
all items, it increased 2.2 percent.  Policy makers are “misreading the inflation, period,”
Harris said in an interview. “If you have a healthy rate of
core inflation, you don’t have any business having the federal
funds rate under 25 basis points. That’s ridiculous.” The Fed
cut the target rate for overnight loans among banks to near zero
in December 2008.  Confidence in homeownership has been battered in the wake
of the subprime-mortgage crisis, which pushed housing prices
down 33 percent since July 2006, based on the S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values in 20 cities. Prices in these cities
fell in March to the lowest level since 2003 -- led by
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , and Minneapolis, showing that housing
remains mired in a slump almost two years into the economic
recovery.  Seized in Foreclosure  More than 3 million homes have been seized in foreclosure
since the start of 2008, according to RealtyTrac Inc., and the
rate of homeownership has fallen to 66.4 percent, the lowest
since 1998, data from the Census Bureau show.  About two-thirds of Americans now think buying a home is a
safe investment, down from 83 percent in 2003, said government-
supported mortgage financier  Fannie Mae  in a  national survey 
released May 11.  The percentage of  AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB)  residents
moving out to purchase a residence fell to 12 percent in the
first quarter, down from 15 percent in the last quarter of 2010
-- “the lowest level since we began tracking this data,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bryce Blair said in a April
28 analysts’ call.  AvalonBay is the second-biggest publicly traded U.S.
apartment owner with more than 50,000 units in the Northeast,
Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Pacific Northwest and Northern and
Southern California. First-quarter funds from operations climbed
18 percent to $93.5 million from a year ago as rising demand
helped it increase rents, the Arlington, Virginia-based company
said in an April 27 statement.  ‘Muted’ Supply  “Job growth, particularly among young workers, is driving
higher rental demand, while new supply remains muted,” Blair
said in the statement. “We expect fundamentals will continue to
accelerate during the year.” AvalonBay stock has risen 16
percent this year.  U.S. apartment rents climbed 5 percent in the 12 months
through April, according to research company Axiometrics Inc.
Effective rents in the first quarter, or what tenants actually
paid, rose in 75 of the 82 markets tracked by data provider Reis
Inc., which said the average was up 2.5 percent from a year
earlier to $991 a month.  “Landlords have a couple years of runway to have pricing
power over their tenants,” said Anthony Paolone, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. He recommends that investors
looking to profit financially from the increases should consider
a trio of real-estate investment trusts: Palo Alto, California-
based  Essex Property Trust Inc. (ESS) ,  UDR Inc. (UDR)  in Highlands Ranch,
 Colorado , and  Equity Residential (EQR)  in  Chicago .  Rising Shares  UDR has risen 8.8 percent since January, Equity Residential
climbed 17 percent and Essex jumped 18 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index increased 5.8 percent in the same period.  The boon for landlords is a burden for residents like
Alexander Shevlyagin, a 25-year-old Seattle computer-software
manager, who said he was shocked to learn his rent is rising to
$1,305 a month from $935 and his free parking space will cost
$100.  “My building manager told me, ‘Hey, we’re almost at full
occupancy,’” Shevlyagin said. “He said he signed the same
place I have on a different floor for the new rates, so someone
thinks that this is reasonable. Knowing what I’m paying right
now, I don’t consider it reasonable.”  Negative Change  From January until October 2010, rents helped hold down
overall inflation as the year-over-year change in shelter --
mainly rents and what owners would receive if they rented their
homes -- was negative, according to data from the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.  Then the component turned positive in November. Rental
yields, or rents relative to  home prices , will climb this year
to the highest level in more than 20 years and remain elevated
for as many as four years, predicts Paul Dales, senior U.S.
economist in Toronto for Capital Economics Ltd.  “I’m sure it’s something the Fed is watching, but I
wouldn’t be too surprised if they haven’t factored in such a
rise,” Dales said. “It’s possible the Fed may be surprised
there.”  At their April meeting, Fed officials projected core
inflation for 2011 between 1.3 percent and 1.6 percent; their
estimate for 2012 was 1.3 percent to 1.8 percent.  ‘Resource Slack’  “With resource slack likely to diminish only gradually
over the next few years, it seems reasonable to anticipate that
underlying inflation will remain subdued for some time, provided
that longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained,”
Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen said in a April 11 speech in  New
York .  While rents weren’t mentioned in the minutes of the April
meeting, the Fed’s April 13 Beige Book report, an anecdotal
survey of economic conditions, was peppered with stories of
rising costs.  In  Manhattan , studio-apartment leases “continued to climb
and were up more than 10 percent from a year ago.” In  Boston ,
apartment “rental-rate increases persist,” and contacts in
Chicago reported “developing strength in the rental market and
a corresponding pick-up in conversions of condominiums into
apartments.”  The Fed may be falling behind the curve, said  Joel Naroff ,
president of Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland,  Pennsylvania .
Rising rents are “a risk to the core, which is the important
number if you’re looking at Fed policy,” he said, estimating
the rate could top 2 percent by the end of this year.  “It’s clearly a cost-of-living issue, especially as people
who were in the homeownership market are winding up in the
rental market,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  