-- 
Indian Politicians Accused of Crimes Targeted in Push to Reduce Corruption

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-05-30T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/root-of-indian-corruption-lies-in-its-elections-official-says.html
India  must ban politicians accused of
serious crimes from contesting elections if it wants to
eradicate the “root cause” of official corruption, the
country’s chief election commissioner said.  India’s  Ministry of Law and Justice  and the Election
Commission are considering proposals to bar candidates standing
for regional or national assemblies if they face  charges  with a
sentence of five years or more, S.Y. Quraishi, the country’s
most senior polling official, said in a May 27 interview. Party
spending should be made more transparent, Quraishi said, in a
bid to end the offering of cash in return for votes.  “Some people are entering politics because they see it as
a way to make money, others think being elected means they will
avoid” being prosecuted, said Quraishi, who wants the tougher
rules introduced before  elections  next year in  Uttar Pradesh ,
India’s most populous state. “That’s the root cause of
corruption.”  About 30 percent of the 545 lawmakers in India’s lower
house of Parliament have criminal cases pending against them,
ranging from theft to rape and murder, according to the
 Association of Democratic Reforms  and National Election Watch,
New Delhi-based advocacy groups. Under current rules,
politicians on trial or who have appealed their convictions are
free to stand in elections in India, where the average criminal
case lasts 15 years.  Corruption allegations surrounding a 2008 sale of permits
to run mobile-phone services and the holding of last year’s
Commonwealth Games led to the arrest of a government minister,
officials and company executives, and triggered street protests.
A total of 76 lawmakers in the  New Delhi  parliament have been
charged with serious offences,  defined  by the Association of
Democratic Reforms as murder, attempted murder, rape, kidnapping,
robbery or extortion.  ‘Bad Eggs’  “This is a stain on the quality of our democracy,”
Quraishi, 63, said in his New Delhi office where pictures of
 Mahatma Gandhi  and  Jawaharlal Nehru , who led the struggle for
independence from British colonial rule, hang on the wall behind
his desk. “We need to identify the bad eggs and remove them.”  India ranked 87th out of 178 countries in the 2010
Corruption Perceptions Index conducted by  Transparency
International . Investors in Indian shares consider graft as much
of a barrier to economic progress as inflation, JPMorgan Asset
Management said in a December 2010 report.  While some politicians and anti-corruption campaigners
support Quraishi’s call to expel corrupt politicians, they are
concerned the proposal to bar candidates facing charges from
running could be open to abuse in the world’s largest democracy.  Falsely Accused  “Some of the charges framed against politicians are
politically motivated,” said Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, a vice-
president of the main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party . While
he wants to see tougher anti-corruption measures, Naqvi said
that “making it a hard rule to disqualify people while trials
are pending is not good for democracy.”  A politician prevented from running for office will “set
up his brother or his wife and will rule by proxy,” Prashant
Bhushan, a lawyer in the  Supreme Court  and civil-rights activist,
said in a phone interview in New Delhi.  To ensure candidates aren’t falsely accused, only charges
filed at least six months before polling would be considered a
reason to bar an individual from standing, Quraishi said. That
will allow time for baseless cases to be dismissed, he said.  While Quraishi says he wants all party spending to be
audited and published on official websites, he acknowledges that
ending payments for votes will require a change in the way
political parties view  corruption .  Election Bribes  An estimated $750 million was paid to voters in bribes
during elections in five Indian states in April and May, said
Quraishi, who has worked in the country’s civil service for
three decades. Only a fraction of that money was recovered by
officials, he said.  “The election  commission  cannot check black money entirely
because we don’t have a magic wand,” he said, referring to the
undeclared cash used to influence voting. “We are relying on
self discipline by political parties and transparency in their
funding to reduce payments of black money.”  In the biggest recent scandal, former telecommunications
minister  Andimuthu Raja  is accused of conspiring with ministry
officials and company executives to sell mobile-phone permits at
below market rates. The country’s auditor said their actions may
have cost the country $31 billion in revenue.  Raja’s party, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, lost elections
in April in a backlash over graft, with its presence in the 234-
member assembly reduced to 23 members.  “There’s significant work to make politics clean but we are
making progress all the time,” said Quraishi. “We want to
change the man-on-the-street’s impression that politics is full
of criminals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  