-- 
RTL, Reliance Broadcast Agree on Deal to Start English Channels in India

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-05-30T13:40:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/rtl-reliance-to-cooperate-on-two-english-language-tv-channels-in-india.html
RTL Group SA (RTL) , Europe’s biggest
television broadcaster, agreed to set up a venture with  Reliance
Broadcast Network Ltd. (RBN)  to start two English channels in  India ,
marking its first foray into Asia as a broadcaster.  The venture plans one channel based on reality shows
provided mainly by RTL’s production arm, FremantleMedia, and
another targeting male viewers with action content, RTL said
today. Programs will start in the second half of 2011 as part of
pay-TV packages on cable, satellite and Internet television,
said Oliver Fahlbusch, a spokesman at Luxembourg-based RTL.  Hartmut Ostrowski, chief executive officer of RTL parent
company Bertelsmann AG, Europe’s largest media company, said in
March that he wanted to tap Asian markets for growth and named
China and India as targets. RTL will have to compete for viewers
in a country with hundreds of satellite channels and against
established rivals such as Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)   “It’s a cautious move and a toe in the water to find out
how the business works over there,” said Thijs Berkelder, an
analyst at Petercam in Amsterdam with an “add” recommendation
on RTL stock. “Normally RTL’s strategy is to only be active as
a number one or two in a given market.”  Financing Plans  The channels will be mainly financed through advertising in
the beginning, Fahlbusch said. RTL’s platform will be attractive
to advertisers of brands to an “aspiring, urban” section of
the Indian population, he said. RTL estimates the advertising
market for English-language channels in India amounted to $143
million, or 7 percent of the country’s total TV advertising
market in 2009.  RTL declined as much as 0.3 percent to 68.65 euros and was
down less than 0.1 percent as of 3:17 p.m. in Brussels trading.
The stock has lost 10 percent this year, giving the company a
market value of 10.7 billion euros ($15.2 billion). Reliance
Broadcast gained 0.6 percent to 70.30 rupees in Mumbai.  Reliance Broadcast is part of billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s
business group, which includes investments in power,
telecommunications and infrastructure. The Mumbai-based company
operates  radio stations  and has a joint venture in  South Asia 
with New York-based  CBS Corp. (CBS)   Bertelsmann Chief Financial Officer Thomas Rabe has said
the Guetersloh, Germany-based media company can spend as much as
1 billion euros on acquisitions after focusing on debt reduction
since the 4.5 billion-euro purchase of a stake that returned
full control to the Mohn family.  RTL’s Productions  RTL owns 41 television channels and 34 radio stations in 10
countries, while  FremantleMedia , which makes programs including
“ American Idol ” and “The Farmer Wants a Wife,” provides
content in 54 countries.  In 2010, Germany, France, the U.K. and Netherlands
contributed 77 percent to RTL’s 5.6 billion euros in group sales
to external customers, according to its  annual report .  “We are committed to offering Indian audiences
unprecedented international television content, and RTL Group’s
extensive library and lineage compliment the partnership
perfectly,” Tarun Katial, CEO of Reliance Broadcast, said in
the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  