-- 
Russia Central Bank Unexpectedly Lifts Deposit Rate, Signals for Pause

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-05-30T13:41:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/russia-central-bank-unexpectedly-lifts-deposit-rate-other-rates-unchanged.html
Russia’s central bank unexpectedly
raised its overnight deposit rate, signaling it may refrain from
tightening monetary policy again as price pressures ebb and the
economic recovery remains shaky.  Bank Rossii raised the fixed overnight deposit rate to 3.5
percent from 3.25 percent, effective May 31, the fourth increase
since December, the Moscow-based central bank said today in an
e-mailed  statement . Nine of 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey
predicted the move. The refinancing rate and overnight auction-
based repurchase rates were left at 8.25 percent and 5.50
percent, in line with economists’ expectations.  Chairman Sergey Ignatiev is trying to keep inflation
between 6 percent and 7 percent without stifling credit flows
and undermining an economic recovery in the world’s biggest
energy supplier. The inflation rate is now “in order” and the
bank will be “very cautious” in raising borrowing costs to
“avoid hurting economic growth,” Ignatiev said May 26.  Today’s increase and earlier measures “provide an
acceptable balance between the risks of continued inflationary
pressure and slowing economic growth for the nearest months,”
the central bank said.  Ruble Weakens  Policy makers left mandatory reserve ratios unchanged for a
second month after lifting them in January, February and March.
Economists expect Bank Rossii to resume increases in the second
half of the year, according to the median of 12 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey.  The ruble erased gains after advancing on the decision and
was 0.1 percent lower against the dollar at 28.0850 at 5:40 p.m.
in Moscow.  Russia ’s ruble bonds due March 2014 slid for the
first time in three days, pushing the yield 3 basis points
higher to 6.59 percent.  The Micex Index of 30 stocks added to gains after the
announcement and was up 0.3 percent at 1,642.13 at 4:42 p.m.  “It’s a signal for the market that the central bank
continues to be watching inflation, and that it potentially
intends to tighten policy if economic growth firms and consumers
proceed with their current behavior of lower savings and higher
borrowing,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for Russia and
 Kazakhstan  at ING Groep in Moscow, said by telephone.  Slowest Growing  The slowest-growing economy among the so-called BRIC
nations, Russia is relying on revenue from oil to bolster its
recovery, while seeking ways to reduce its reliance on energy
exports. Oil at more than $100 a barrel is no longer stoking
economic expansion, which slowed to 4.1 percent in the first
quarter from 4.5 percent in the fourth. Growth slid further in
April, to 3.3 percent, the  Economy Ministry  said May 26.  The economy will expand 4.5 percent next year, compared
with 9.1 percent for China and 7.8 percent for  India , the
 International Monetary Fund  forecast in April.  The pace of inflation has shown signs of steadying.
Consumer-price growth in May will probably match the rate from
the same month last year, when prices gained a monthly 0.5
percent, Ignatiev said May 26. The annual rate in April matched
an 18-month high of 9.6 percent and reached 9.7 percent as of
May 23, the central bank said today.  Consumer price growth “remains relatively low” in monthly
terms, policy makers said in the statement. Food-price growth
has slowed as the knock-on effects from last year’s drought, the
country’s worst in 50 years, eased, the bank added.  Grain Ban Lifted  A ban on grain exports introduced as a result of the
drought will be allowed to expire July 1, representing the
“only serious, significant risk factor” for inflation,
Ignatiev said today, the RIA Novosti news service reported.  Russian grain prices are now about half global levels,
First Deputy Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov said in a meeting with
Prime Minister Vladimir Putin May 28.  Unlike their counterparts in  Brazil ,  China  and India,
Russian policy makers preferred currency gains and higher
 reserve requirements  for lenders as inflation-fighting tools to
help fledgling growth. The ruble has gained 9 percent so far
this year after the bank relaxed currency controls.  Elections  With parliamentary elections at the end of the year and
presidential elections in early 2012, policy makers will
probably step up their inflation-fighting rhetoric and revive
efforts to meet this year’s price goal, according to Timothy Ash, head of emerging-market research at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London.  Previously the central bank “put a greater weight on
growth, but with signs the population is becoming increasingly
sensitive to the impact of inflation on real disposable incomes,
and with opinion polls showing a dip in support for the ruling
elites, controlling inflation is also center stage,” Ash wrote
in a note e-mailed on May 26.  The central bank cited high unemployment, slowing
industrial production growth, and an “extremely low” level of
investment as key risks to growth. Consumers are borrowing and
spending more while saving less, which could boost economic
growth and inflation, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 