-- 
Russia Lifting Grain-Export Ban May Fail to Alleviate Global Crop Shortage

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-05-30T16:53:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/russia-lifting-grain-export-ban-as-drought-floods-ruin-europe-u-s-crops.html
Russia , once the second-biggest wheat
exporter, will let a grain-shipment ban expire on July 1, a move
that may fail to ease a global shortage caused by drought and
flood damage to European and U.S. crops.  Futures climbed 79 percent in the past year in Chicago, the
global benchmark, helped by Russia’s export ban in August after
the worst drought in at least 50 years. Poor weather from Canada
to  Europe  destroyed harvests and Ukraine imposed shipment
quotas. Rising prices drove global food costs tracked by the
 United Nations  to a record in February.  “Whether they actually have major exports from that time
or not remains to be seen,” said  Michael Pitts , commodity sales
director at National  Australia  Bank. The ban’s removal doesn’t
necessarily mean there will be enough supply to offset losses in
Europe and the U.S., he said in an interview from Sydney today.  Increasing food costs have contributed to faster inflation
around the world, spurring at least two dozen central banks and
the  European Central Bank  to raise  interest rates  this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Higher interest rates may curb
global economic growth that the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said May 25 would increase to 4.6
percent next year from 4.2 percent this year.  Milling wheat for November delivery dropped as much as 5.3
percent to 237.75 euros ($339.41) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in
Paris, and was down 4.9 percent at 238.75 euros by the 6:30 p.m.
close. The Chicago markets are closed today for a holiday.  Plantings Climb  The export ban won’t be extended, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said during a meeting with First Deputy Prime Minister
Viktor Zubkov outside Moscow on May 28. Russian grain plantings
climbed 10 percent to 24 million hectares (59 million acres) and
the government has more than 6 million tons of grain in
reserves, Zubkov, who oversees the agricultural sector, told
Putin.  Russia can export 2.5 million tons a month, said Arkady Zlochevsky, president of Russia’s Grain Union. Traders have
already started to deliver small amounts to ports in the past
two weeks and the main customers are countries in North Africa
and the  Middle East , he said in Moscow today.  Farmers worldwide will reap 667 million tons of wheat in
2011-2012, trailing demand of 669 million tons, the
International Grains Council said May 26. The agency pared its
production estimate from 672 million tons in April, cutting
stockpiles to 185 million tons, the lowest since 2008-2009.  Slump Unlikely  The harvest prediction was reduced because of unfavorable
weather in a number of countries, especially the European Union
and the U.S., it said. Traders are expecting Russia to lift the
embargo, it said May 26, two days before the announcement.  Prices are unlikely to slump as the market has already
anticipated Russia’s return, said Vijay Iyengar, managing
director of AgroCorp International Pte in  Singapore , who
correctly predicted in February that corn would be the best-
performing agricultural commodity in the first half.  In the U.S., the world’s largest wheat shipper, about 45
percent of the winter wheat crop was in very poor or poor
condition as of May 22, compared with 44 percent a week earlier,
and 9 percent a year earlier, the USDA said May 23. About 54
percent of the U.S. spring-wheat was planted, behind last year’s
pace of 89 percent, also the average in the past five years.  France’s soft-wheat crop, the European Union’s largest,
will drop 12 percent, and German output will slide 7.2 percent,
local forecasters said May 18.  High-Grade Shortage  While Russia’s exports may add to the supply of global feed
wheat, there will still be a shortage of the higher-grade grain
used for making bread, pasta and noodles, said Ric Pinca,
executive director of the Philippine Association of Flour
Millers, in a phone interview from Manila today.  About 124 million tons of the 670.5 million tons of wheat
demand in 2011-2012 is intended for feed and the rest for food,
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said May 11.  Buyers in  Asia  including  Japan ,  South Korea , Taiwan,  China 
and the  Philippines  are unlikely to rush to the market to buy
Russian wheat, considered to be lower quality than that from the
U.S.,  Canada  and Australia, said Pinca. The Philippines is the
second-largest buyer in Southeast Asia.  In Canada, planting was also delayed by excessive rains.
About 53 percent of the crop was planted, trailing the normal
pace of 75 percent, the Canadian Wheat Board said May 24. By
contrast, Russia’s  Agriculture Ministry  estimates the total
grain harvest may be 85 million to 90 million tons, up from 60.9
million tons last year.  Ukraine Quotas  Russia will export 10 million tons of wheat in the 12
months ending June next year, up from 4 million tons in the
current year, according to the USDA. That’s less than the 18.6
million tons sold a year earlier. Corn shipments will increase
to 1 million tons from 25,000 tons and barley cargoes to 800,000
tons from 300,000 tons, the USDA estimates.  Ukraine President Viktor Yanukovych said in an interview
May 24 he would lift export quotas because of forecasts for a 15
percent increase in the harvest. Ukraine, once the world’s
biggest barley exporter, set shipment quotas on corn, wheat and
barley in October after drought ruined crops.  Wheat for July delivery advanced 0.6 percent to $8.1975 a
bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade on May 27, while corn
jumped 1.7 percent to $7.585 a bushel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  