-- 
Russia’s Central Bank Signals Interest-Rate Pause After Surprise Increase

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-05-31T09:51:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/russia-s-central-bank-signals-interest-rate-pause-after-surprise-increase.html
Russia signaled it may leave  interest
rates  unchanged for several months after tightening monetary
policy since December to balance accelerating inflation with
slowing economic growth.  Bank Rossii, the central bank, yesterday raised its
overnight deposit rate to 3.5 percent from 3.25 percent,
surprising 11 of 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey. It left
the refinancing and overnight repurchase rates unchanged after a
quarter-point increase in April, saying in a  statement  that
borrowing costs may be at the level necessary to tackle
inflation and promote growth “for the nearest months.”  Sergey Ignatiev, chairman of the Moscow-based bank, is
trying to limit consumer-price growth to 6 percent to 7 percent
without stifling credit and undermining an economic recovery in
the world’s biggest energy supplier. While inflation will
probably ease in the second half of the year, increases in food
prices and public-sector salaries may threaten that target.  “Most likely, the central bank won’t raise interest rates
in the next three months,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research
at BNP Paribas in Moscow, said yesterday by telephone.
“Inflation could still bring a surprise, though, requiring more
forceful action.”  While annual inflation reached an 18-month high of 9.7
percent as of May 23, price growth remains relatively low in
monthly terms, the central bank said yesterday. May prices
probably rose at the same pace as last year, when they increased
0.5 percent on the month, Ignatiev predicted last week. Food
price increases slowed after the effects of the country’s worst
drought in 50 years eased, the bank said.  ‘Significant Risk Factor’  Consumer prices will rise 9.05 percent in 2011, according
to the median estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  A ban on grain exports introduced as a result of the
drought will expire July 1, representing the “only serious,
significant risk factor” for inflation, Ignatiev said
yesterday, the RIA Novosti news service reported.  Removal of the ban may spark a surge in grain exports,
pushing up domestic prices, according to Tsepliaeva. Russian
grain prices are about half global levels, First Deputy Prime
Minister Viktor Zubkov told Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  in a
meeting May 28, according to a government statement.  Increased  government spending  before parliamentary
elections at the end of the year and a presidential vote in
early 2012 may also boost inflation, said  Ivan Tchakarov  and
Anton Nikitin, economists at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow.  ‘Key Risk’  “A substantial topping up of public sector wages and
pensions in the run-up to the parliamentary and presidential
elections” is a “key risk,” Tchakarov and Nikitin wrote in a
May 26 research note. Higher  oil prices  may have created “some
fiscal space to loosen the strings of the budget purse.”  Consumers are borrowing and spending more while saving
less, which may boost economic growth and inflation, the bank
said yesterday. Policy makers first flagged quickening credit
growth and reluctance to save as inflation risks in April.  The central bank identified credit growth as a “new
monetary risk to inflation” last month, said Jacob Nell, a
Moscow-based economist at Morgan Stanley, before yesterday’s
decision. Nell correctly predicted the deposit-rate increase.  While 20 percent lending growth is “fine” with the
central bank, it may expand at a rate of as much as 23 percent
this year, Ignatiev said last week.  Slowest BRIC Growth  The central bank cited high unemployment, slowing
industrial production growth and an “extremely low” level of
investment as key risks to the economy.  The slowest-growing economy among the so-called BRIC
nations,  Russia  is relying on revenue from oil to bolster its
recovery, at the same time it is seeking to reduce reliance on
energy exports.  Oil at more than $100 a barrel is no longer stoking
economic expansion, which slowed to 4.1 percent in the first
quarter from 4.5 percent in the fourth. Growth slid to 3.3
percent in April, the  Economy Ministry  said May 26.  Putin and President Dmitry Medvedev are seeking faster
growth. Putin said May 26 that Russia should boost per capita
gross domestic product to $35,000 from about $19,000 within 15
years. The country needs growth of 8 percent to 10 percent
annually within five years to keep up with emerging market peers
 Brazil ,  India  and  China , Medvedev said in January.  The economy will expand 4.5 percent next year, compared
with 9.1 percent for China and 7.8 percent for India, the
 International Monetary Fund  forecast in April. The Economy
Ministry estimates growth at 4.5 percent this year, a target
Ignatiev said May 26 would probably be met.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 