-- 
Russian Grain Stocks Likely to Top 20 Million Tons by July

-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-05-30T13:52:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/russian-grain-stocks-likely-to-top-20-million-tons-by-july-1-.html
Russian grain reserves will exceed 20
million metric tons by the start of July, almost double the
amount needed to ensure  food security , according to Arkady Zlochevsky, president of the  Grain Union , which represents
farmers and exporters.  “It is a huge amount,” he told reporters in Moscow today.
Russia needs about 11 million tons of grain stocks based on  Food
and Agriculture Organization  guidelines, Zlochevsky said.  Russian grain stocks jumped after the government in August
banned exports as the nation’s worst drought in half a century
ruined crops. The absence of sales from Russia, once the world’s
second-largest wheat exporter, helped drive grain prices up as
dry weather or floods curbed harvests from  Europe  to  Canada .  Russia’s largest farms had grain stocks of 23.5 million
tons as of May 1, about 19 percent less than a year earlier,
Zlochevsky said, citing Rosstat, the government’s statistics
service. The agency’s figures don’t include small farms, which
account for about 20 percent of Russian grain output, he said.  Russia  has a good chance of achieving the government’s
targeted grain harvest of between 85 million tons and 90 million
tons, of which 20 million tons can be exported, Zlochevsky said.
The expected loss of winter crops constitutes a lower-than-usual
6.6 percent, based on the union’s calculations, he said.  Ban to End  The grain crop in the southwest Krasnodar region, usually
Russia’s largest producer, is expected to reach 10.1 million
tons, up from 9.9 million tons last year, said Savva Shevel,
head of the plant cultivation unit at the regional agricultural
department.  Of that, 6.7 million tons will be wheat and 940,000 tons
feed barley, he said on a video-conference from the regional
coastal city of Sochi.  Russia will let its ban on grain exports expire on July 1,
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said during a meeting with First
Deputy Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov outside Moscow on May 28.  Milling wheat for November delivery fell as much as 4.7
percent to 239.25 euros ($341.77) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in
Paris before trading at 241 euros as of 2:37 p.m. London time.
The Chicago markets are closed today for a holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at   tclark8@bloomberg.net  