-- 
Saudi-Iran Feud Draws Sectarian Line Amid Mideast Oilfields

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-05-31T12:58:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/saudi-iran-feud-draws-sectarian-line-across-mideast-oilfields.html
Diners at Shayan in Riyadh,  Saudi
Arabia ’s capital, are assured by a sign near the cash register
that they can enjoy the restaurant’s Persian food without
worrying about Iranians profiting. The establishment is Saudi-
owned, it says.  Saudi fulmination against Iranian interference in the
 Persian Gulf  finds its mirror image in Tehran. There, buses
bring doctors and schoolgirls to join protests outside the Saudi
embassy, as clerics, ministers and state-run media denounce the
deployment of Saudi troops to Bahrain.  The Gulf, home to three-fifths of the world’s oil reserves,
has largely escaped the violence that accompanied uprisings in
 Egypt , Libya and other countries this year. The main exception,
though, carries the risk of a wider conflict. Bahrain’s Saudi-
backed rulers are using force to suppress an opposition that
mostly shares Iran’s Shiite faith -- exacerbating the rivalry
between the region’s two most powerful and oil-rich countries.  It’s “frightening to think of this conflict and the
effects on oil and other markets,” said  Paul Sullivan , a
political scientist specializing in Middle East security at
 Georgetown University .  Saudi Arabia, like Bahrain a Sunni monarchy and key U.S.
ally, sent more than 1,000 troops to its neighbor, the largest
component of a Gulf force named Peninsula Shield.  Protesters Killed  They arrived March 15, the day Bahrain’s ruling Al Khalifa
family declared a state of emergency after a month of pro-
democracy demonstrations. Security forces have killed more than
20 protesters. Human rights groups say many more have been
jailed and tortured since the Saudi intervention while Shiite
mosques have been destroyed, a charge the government denies.  Shiites are a majority in Bahrain. In Saudi Arabia, where
they make up about 15 percent of the population, officials
accuse  Iran  of stoking opposition to Sunni rulers.  “Iranian sectarianism is the cause of the tension,”
Sheikh Abdul Mohsen al-Obeikan, an adviser to King Abdullah’s
 Royal Court , said in an interview in Riyadh. Bahrain’s
protesters “strayed away from just asking for basic demands and
went on to threats,” he said. “That’s why Bahrain’s government
agreed to receive the Peninsula Shield.”  ‘Hawkish Wing’  It was Bahrain’s rulers who widened sectarian schisms by
crushing the protests, said Arshin Adib-Moghaddam, a lecturer at
the School of Oriental and African Studies in  London . “Bahrain
was not a Shiite-Sunni issue until the rather more hawkish wing
of the al-Khalifa family decided to turn it into one,” partly
in order to signal to the U.S. that any alternative regime would
be pro-Iran, he said.  Other Gulf countries are also targeting Iran. Kuwait, whose
Shiite minority protested the Peninsula Shield deployment,
sentenced two Iranians and one Kuwaiti to death for spying in
March.  Crude prices have jumped almost 20 percent to about $100 a
barrel since unrest in Bahrain and  Libya  began mid-February.
That increase suits Iran’s strategy better than Saudi Arabia’s,
according to Jarmo Kotilaine, chief economist at  National
Commercial Bank  in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.  “Saudi Arabia has a long history of fostering stability in
the oil markets,” he said. “Iran wants to produce more oil at
higher prices.”  Iran had 138 billion barrels of reserves at the end of
2009, according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy.
Saudi Arabia had 265 billion. The kingdom is the world’s biggest
oil exporter, and spends some of the revenue arming itself. It
has agreed to buy $60 billion of equipment including  Boeing Co. (BA) 
F-15 fighter jets and attack helicopters.  King Urged Attack  Iran, suspected by the U.S. and allies of seeking to
develop atomic weapons, is the perceived threat behind that
defense spending.  King Abdullah  urged the U.S. to attack Iran,
“cut off the head of the snake” and halt its nuclear program,
U.S. diplomats reported in cables released by WikiLeaks. In
another cable from August 2008, U.S. diplomats said there had
been “no convincing evidence of Iranian weapons or government
money” in Bahrain for more than a decade.  Saudi and Bahraini rulers haven’t presented evidence of
Iranian involvement there. Iranian leaders point to Saudi
troops, dead Shiites and bulldozed mosques.  Cleric  Ayatollah Sheikh Mohsen Araki , a former member of
the Assembly of Experts, the Islamic republic’s top religious
body, issued a fatwa condemning those he said were involved in
demolishing mosques and killing Muslims in Bahrain.  Schoolgirl Chants  “Death to the infidel Saudi regime,” a group of
schoolgirls chanted May 3 outside the Saudi embassy in Tehran.
State-run Press TV has broadcast footage of wounded Bahraini
protesters in their hospital beds.  The two countries squaring off over Bahrain lie at the
heart of regional alliance networks.  Iran supports Syrian President Bashar al-Assad -- a ruler
from a minority sect with Shiite connections who’s seeking to
crush protests in a mostly Sunni country -- and has developed
ties with  Iraq ’s Shiite-led government. In Lebanon, Iran backs
the Shiite Hezbollah movement, which toppled the government of
 Saad Hariri , a U.S. and Saudi ally, in January.  The Saudi-led Gulf Cooperation Council said this month it
may add Sunni monarchies  Jordan  and  Morocco  to its six members.  Tensions date back to Iran’s Islamic Revolution in 1979.
 Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini  accused Saudi rulers of corruption
and argued that the holy sites of Mecca and Medina in Saudi
Arabia shouldn’t be under a single country’s guardianship.  Bahrain Warning  Past sparring has now “become a reality,” and the
violence in Bahrain probably isn’t over, said  Theodore Karasik ,
director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East
and Gulf Military Analysis.  Bahrain is due to lift emergency rule tomorrow. The
Ministry of Justice signaled today that it won’t allow a
resumption of anti-government protests, ruling out “activities
that could affect security or harm the national peace.” In
Shiite villages, subjected to repeated raids and arrests since
martial law was declared, activists plan to hold rallies, the
Bahrain Youth Society for Human Rights said.  “Some Shiite Bahrainis may try to retaliate,” Karasik
said. “After the government’s crackdown, there is very little
room for compromise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 