-- 
Most Emerging Stocks Decline as European Debt Concern Offsets Profit Gains

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 
2011-05-30T21:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/msci-emerging-markets-gains-for-third-day-as-profits-offset-debt-concerns.html
Most emerging-markets stocks fell as
concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen amid a slowdown in
global economic growth offset higher corporate profits.  Eight stocks fell for every seven that gained on the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index as the equity gauge climbed less than 0.1
percent to 1,148.15 at 4:43 p.m. in  New York . The Philippine
Stock Exchange Index rose 0.5 percent, Russia’s Micex rallied
0.4 percent, and Poland’s benchmark gauged advanced 0.2 percent.
South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  lost 0.3 percent, and Hungary’s BUX
Index slid 1.2 percent, the first decline in three days.
Brazil’s Bovespa slipped 0.5 percent.  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) , India’s largest
drugmaker by market value, jumped after profit beat analyst
estimates. STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. led South Korean
shipbuilders higher after receiving a $150 million order.  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  paced a drop among exporters amid concern
demand for technology products will weaken.  “We’re not seeing a clear direction in the market now,
especially amid ongoing debt problems in Europe and as the U.S.
economic indicators are not turning out to be very good,” said
Chung Yun Sik, chief investment officer for equities at ING
Investment Management Korea Ltd., which oversees about $16
billion. “This should continue until end-June when clearer
forecasts for current-quarter earnings will start to come out.”  Stock Volatility  The MSCI gauge of emerging markets has dropped 0.3 percent
this year, trailing a 4.5 percent advance in the MSCI World
Index, a measure for developed markets. Stocks in the benchmark
index for developing equities are valued at 11.1 times estimated
earnings, less than the multiple of 12.8 times for developed
countries.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said he’ll press
ahead with new austerity measures even as he failed to win
backing from opposition parties. A report today showed the
Philippine economy expanded at the slowest pace since 2009 last
quarter, while U.S. data this week may show employers probably
hired fewer workers in May and manufacturing cooled in the
world’s largest economy.  Another financial crisis is “around the corner” because
the causes of the previous crisis haven’t been solved,  Mark Mobius , executive chairman of Templeton Asset Management’s
emerging markets group, told reporters in  Tokyo  today. Stock
volatility will rise in the next 10 years, he said.  Shipbuilders, Technology Shares  Sun Pharmaceutical rallied 4.4 percent in Mumbai after
India’s biggest drugmaker by market value said fourth-quarter
profit rose 12 percent, beating analyst estimates.  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) ,
India’s largest iron-ore producer, rose 3 percent after earnings
almost doubled. In Malaysia,  Tiong Nam Logistics Holdings (TNL)  Bhd.,
a transport and warehousing company, surged 9.2 percent after
profit jumped tenfold.  STX Offshore advanced 3.6 percent in  Seoul  after saying it
won a $150 million order to build four vessels to carry oil
products. Other Korean shipyards also climbed, with Hyundai
Heavy Industries Co. rising 1.3 percent and Daewoo Shipbuilding
& Marine Engineering Co. adding 2.1 percent.  Hynix, the world’s second-largest computer-memory
chipmaker, lost 5.8 percent, while LG Display Co., the second-
largest liquid-crystal display maker, dropped 3.1 percent.  “Investors seem to be concerned that demand for computers
and televisions is not recovering as fast as previously
anticipated, affecting sentiment toward overall technology
stocks including Hynix,” Kim Young Chan, an analyst at Shinhan
Investment Corp., said by phone today.  Worst Performer  Samsung SDI Co., a South Korean maker of electric-car
batteries, tumbled 11 percent, the worst performer on the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index, on concern its planned purchase of
Samsung Electronics Co.’s solar-cell business may not pay off in
the near future.  CEZ AS, the biggest Czech power producer, gained for a
third day after  Germany  said it will keep a tax on nuclear fuel
and close down all nuclear power stations by 2022, sending the
electricity price to the highest in almost two months. CEZ,
which exports part of its output to Germany, rose as much as 0.9
percent.  Brazil’s Bovespa index fell, adding to its third monthly
decline this year, as a drop in commodities prices offset
reduced inflation forecasts.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, declined 0.9 percent, following crude prices lower.
Fifty-four stocks fell on the index, while 11 rose.  In  Taiwan ,  Asia Cement Corp. (1102)  and  Taiwan Cement Corp. (1101)  jumped
more than 4 percent after the island said on May 27 it will levy
a provisional anti-dumping tax on some Chinese cement products.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  