-- 
Seagate, Western Digital Face EU Probes

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-05-30T17:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/seagate-western-digital-hard-disk-drive-deals-face-eu-scrutiny.html
Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  and  Western
Digital Corp. (WDC)  face extended antitrust scrutiny from European
Union regulators into separate deals to expand their hard-disk
drive businesses amid a demand slump.  The European Commission opened in-depth probes into
Seagate’s bid to buy Samsung Electronics Co.’s computer hard-
disk drive operations and  Western Digital ’s purchase of  Hitachi
Ltd. (6501) ’s storage business with a deadline of Oct. 10 to rule on
the deals, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  The hard-drive industry “has already experienced
significant consolidation and the proposed acquisitions will
further reduce competition,”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s
antitrust chief, said in the statement.  The two deals would reduce the number of large
manufacturers of mechanical hard-disk drives for computers to
three from five, leaving Western Digital with 50 percent of the
market, Seagate with 40 percent and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  with around 10
percent,  according  to researcher IHS Inc.’s iSuppli.  Brian Ziel, a spokesman for Dublin-based Seagate, declined
to comment on the decision. Western Digital will cooperate fully
with the European Commission Phase II review, the Irvine,
California-based company said in a statement. The company now
expects the transaction to close in the fourth quarter of 2011,
it said.  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , and Hitachi didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails outside regular office hours.  U.S. Scrutiny  U.S. regulators are looking closely at both deals. Western
Digital said in a regulatory filing that it and Hitachi received
a second information request from the Federal Trade Commission
in April that extended the antitrust review of the deal.  Seagate also received a second request from the FTC on May
20, it said in a regulatory filing. The company said it was
“working cooperatively with the FTC as it reviews the proposed
transaction.”  The FTC and other global regulators are focused on benefits
to consumers and are “less concerned about the number of
players out there,” Western Digital’s chief financial officer
Wolfgang Nickl said on May 10.  “We would think that the FTC and others will listen to the
customer,” Nickl said at the time. “We remain highly confident
that we get this through.”  Drive makers have slashed prices to compete against flash
memory and solid state drive storage. Consolidation among drive
makers follows Toshiba’s 2009 purchase of  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) ’s money-
losing hard-disk drive business. Toshiba is also the world’s
second-largest maker of flash-memory chips.  The hard disk drive industry “remains weak in the face of
a declining PC market,” JPMorgan analysts Thomas Egan and Lina
Kabaria wrote in an April research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Budapest at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  