-- 
Sony Leads Japan Inc. Eyeing Deals With $2.4 Trillion: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-30T21:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/sony-leads-japan-inc-circling-takeovers-with-2-4-trillion-cash-real-m-a.html
After hoarding $2.4 trillion in cash,
corporate Japan is pursuing overseas takeovers like never before
to boost returns.  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901)  are
among the companies with the biggest incentive to chase deals.  More than $25 billion of cross-border acquisitions have
been struck by Japanese companies this year, on pace to exceed
the record amount of deals announced in 2006, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The buying spree comes as Japan’s
currency climbed to its highest level since World War II versus
the dollar and the world’s third-largest economy fell into its
third recession in a decade after being rocked by the nation’s
biggest earthquake on record.  Japanese companies are using their buying power on foreign
takeovers after slumping demand at home destroyed almost half
their equity value in the past five years. Tokyo-based Sony,
mired in its worst earnings slump in more than 50 years, and
Fujifilm, with five straight years of declining sales at its
film and digital camera unit, are among 13 companies with the
largest reserves and the lowest returns on equity, the data show.
That makes them candidates to profit most from acquisitions,
Capstone Global Markets LLC and Harris Associates LP said.  “Corporate  Japan  collectively has not been an efficient
user of free cash on the balance sheet,” said David Herro,
Morningstar Inc.’s international stock fund manager of the
decade and chief investment officer of international equities at
Harris Associates, which oversees about $70 billion in  Chicago .
“Given the strength of the yen, doing overseas M&A does become
a legitimate option.”  Record Cash  Privately owned non-financial companies in Japan amassed
197 trillion yen ($2.4 trillion) in currency and deposits at the
end of last year, according to  data  compiled by the  Bank of
Japan . In dollar terms, the amount was higher than any fiscal
year end since the data began in 1979.  While companies in Japan saved a record amount of cash at
near-zero  interest rates , shareholders lost money. The Topix
index, the benchmark gauge for Japanese common equity, has
fallen 49 percent since May 2006. Including dividends, managers
of corporate Japan have rewarded owners with a 45 percent loss.  Now, with Japanese companies using more of their money on
acquisitions, foreign takeovers are on pace to top $60 billion
this year, which would surpass the record $37 billion announced
in 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Go Hunting’  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. of  Osaka , Japan, and Tokyo-based
Toshiba Corp. spent $16 billion on cross-borders takeovers this
month. Takeda’s $13.7 billion deal for Nycomed in Zurich was the
largest ever by a Japanese drugmaker, while Toshiba’s $2.3
billion purchase of Zug, Switzerland-based electronic-metering
company Landis+Gyr AG was its biggest in five years.  The push overseas gained more impetus as the Cabinet Office
said May 19 that the nation’s economy shrank an annualized 3.7
percent in the first quarter, after the magnitude-9 earthquake
and tsunami on March 11 disrupted production and prompted
consumers to cut back spending.  Japan may expand by 1.4 percent over the full year, less
than half the rate of economic  growth globally , according to the
Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .  “Japanese companies have been struggling with a very weak
domestic economy,” said Kevin Caron, a market strategist in
 Florham Park ,  New Jersey , at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which has
$110 billion in client assets. “It’s a good time for Japanese
companies to go hunting abroad.”  Company List  There are currently 13 non-financial companies in Japan
with market values of more than $5 billion that have increased
their net cash in the past five years to at least $1 billion and
had a lower average return on equity versus the median company
in the Topix over that period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sony had the most cash, with $8.3 billion more in reserves
than borrowings as of March, the data show. That’s a sevenfold
increase in five years. Japan’s largest exporter of consumer
electronics had an average return on equity, which measures how
much a company earns for each dollar invested, of 0.2 percent in
that span, versus an 8.3 percent return in the Topix.  Since Howard Stringer, 69, was named Sony’s first non-
Japanese chief executive officer in March 2005, the company has
lost about $9 billion in market value, the data show. From its
high four years ago, Sony’s equity has decreased by $33 billion.  Sony, which posted three straight years of losses for the
first time since listing its shares in 1958, on May 26 forecast
net income this fiscal year that fell short of analysts’
estimates by 31 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Value Destruction  The company’s PlayStation video-game network and Qriocity
online service were also breached by cyber hackers last month,
exposing more than 100 million customer accounts, which included
billing addresses and login passwords.  “It’s hard for me to believe that these guys have
destroyed that much value in such a short time,” said  Sachin Shah , a merger arbitrage strategist at Capstone Global.
“Stringer really has to do something to revitalize the company.
For Sony to continue to compete, they’re going to have to start
doing deals.”  Imax Corp. (IMAX) , the operator of large-screen movie theaters,
and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the  Los Gatos , California-based mail-order and
online movie-rental service, are two companies that Sony should
consider acquiring, according to Shah. Imax advanced 4.5 percent
on Dec. 31 in its busiest trading day since the Mississauga,
Ontario-based company went public in 1994, after the  Daily Mail 
said Sony may be preparing a bid.  Imax, Netflix  Both Imax, which is valued at $2.4 billion, and Netflix,
with a market capitalization of $13.9 billion, will increase
per-share earnings by at least 46 percent next year, according
to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sony has “a lot of cash on their balance sheet to put to
work if they wanted to,” Shah said. “They could do multiple
deals and it could start becoming exciting for shareholders.”  Mami Imada, a spokeswoman at Sony, said the company isn’t
currently working on any acquisitions. Ann Sommerlath, a
spokeswoman at Imax, declined to comment on “rumors or
speculation,” as did Netflix’s  Steve Swasey .  Fujifilm almost doubled its net cash to $1.8 billion after
a return on equity of just 1.8 percent over the past five years,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Sales at the Tokyo-based
company’s imaging unit have decreased in every year during the
same period as more consumers used smartphones to take pictures.
Last fiscal year, Fujifilm had 325.8 billion yen in revenue at
the unit, a more than 50 percent decline from 2006.  ‘Dying Business’  Fujifilm’s cash was “built over the years in its film
business, which is of course a dying business,” said Harris
Associates’ Herro. “For them, it would make sense” to use more
of it on acquisitions, he said.  In February, the company agreed to purchase two units from
 Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck & Co. that make
biopharmaceuticals as it targets growth in health care to make
up for the slump in sales of film and cameras.  The purchase was its fifth in the past year, including its
agreement to acquire Japan Tissue Engineering Co. in August.  “We’ve been interested in acquiring firms, especially in
the medical and life science fields,” said Takao Aoki, a
spokesman at Fujifilm. “M&A is part of our business expansion.
Buying firms can help us save time and expand business segments.
We budget as much as 100 billion yen a year for acquisitions.”  With record amounts to spend, Japanese companies must avoid
repeating the mistakes of the 1980s, when they overpaid to
acquire prized assets around the world, according to James Dunigan, chief investment officer in Philadelphia for PNC Wealth
Management, which oversees $110 billion.  Cautionary Tale  During that time, Japanese buyers snapped up everything
from Rockefeller Center in  Manhattan  to  California ’s  Pebble
Beach  golf course and Vincent Van Gogh’s Sunflowers painting as
the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average reached a record 38,915.87 at the
end of the decade. Many of the investments were sold at a
fraction of their cost as the country’s asset bubble burst.  Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Estate Co., which invested $1.4
billion in Rockefeller Center in 1989 and 1990, lost it seven
years later after defaulting on the mortgage. Pebble Beach, the
site of last year’s  U.S. Open , was acquired by golf magnate
Minoru Isutani in 1990 for $841 million. It was sold less than
two years later at two-thirds the price as Isutani’s company
went bankrupt.  “It’s not like you want to throw your money around,” said
Dunigan. “The buying spree that they went on the 1980s in the
real estate market didn’t work out that well. They were out
buying in some cases trophy real estate properties, like
Rockefeller Center. You have to make smart purchases and you
have to do your homework.”  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 