-- 
South Korea’s Slower Output Growth Bolsters Case for Keeping Rates on Hold

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-05-31T01:25:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/south-korea-s-slower-output-growth-bolsters-case-for-keeping-rates-on-hold.html
South Korea ’s industrial production
expanded at the slowest pace in seven months in April,
bolstering the case for the central bank to keep interest rates
on hold in a decision due June 10.  Output climbed 6.9 percent from a year earlier after
gaining a revised 9 percent in March, Statistics  Korea  said
today. The median estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 9.2 percent advance. Production fell 1.5
percent from March, when it increased a revised 1.7 percent.  Policy makers are weighing the threat from inflation
against the risk that exports may cool from last month’s record,
undermining the economy’s expansion. The weakness in output
reflected repairs at petrochemical plants, a halt in production
of Kia Motors Corp.’s Carnival minivan, and shortages of
electronic parts because of  Japan ’s earthquake, the statistics
agency said.  “I don’t exclude the possibility of a rate increase in
June as inflation is above the central bank’s target,” Kim Dong Whan, a fixed-income analyst at HI Investment & Securities Co.
in  Seoul  said before today’s release. “But the central bank may
want to wait and see how global economic uncertainties affect
the economy and financial markets.”  Output growth will likely recover as petrochemical and car
plants and Japanese parts makers resume production, the  Finance
Ministry  said in a separate statement today.  Export Gains  The benchmark Kospi stock index rose 0.8 percent as of 9:50
a.m. local time led by renewable energy companies after  Germany 
said it would close nuclear power plants. The won gained to
1,076.30 per dollar as of 10 a.m., extending an increase of more
than 4 percent this year that threatens to damp overseas sales
of South Korean goods.  The nation’s exports were $50 billion last month and
overseas demand has bolstered sales for carmakers including
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  this year. In contrast, domestic investment
and consumption were sluggish in April, the statistics agency
said today.  The  Bank of Korea  has raised its benchmark interest rate
twice this year as it aims to keep inflation within a range of 2
percent to 4 percent. Consumer prices exceeded that level in
each of the first four months and may have gained 4.2 percent in
May from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of 11
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. May data is due tomorrow.  Hard to Predict  Economists have struggled to predict the central bank’s
moves this year, with most in a Bloomberg News survey wrongly
forecasting that the key rate would rise this month from 3
percent. Instead, the policy board left it unchanged for a
second month.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said May 18 that
global growth is on an “uncertain” path for reasons including
volatile  oil prices , U.S. plans to end so-called quantitative
easing and  Europe ’s fiscal crisis.  A South Korean leading index of economic indicators rose
1.1 percent in April from a year earlier, compared with a 1.6
percent gain in March, today’s report showed. Sales of  consumer
goods  fell 1.1 percent from March and gained 5 percent from a
year earlier.  Investment in factories declined 1.1 percent from a year
earlier, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  