-- 
South African Economy Grew at a Slower Pace in First Quarter, Survey Shows

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-05-30T08:45:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/south-african-economy-grew-4-2-in-first-quarter-survey-shows.html
South Africa ’s economy, the biggest
on the continent, probably grew at a slower pace in the first
quarter as surging energy costs curbed consumers’ income and job
losses mounted, economists said.  Gross domestic product expanded an annualized 4.2 percent,
down from 4.4 percent in the final quarter of 2010, according to
the median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Statistics South Africa will publish the data at 11:30 a.m. in
Pretoria tomorrow.  The economy shed 14,000 jobs in the first quarter, pushing
up the  unemployment rate  to 25 percent, the highest of 61
countries tracked by Bloomberg. That’s being compounded by
slower growth in  Europe , which buys about a third of South
African manufactured exports, increasing expectations the
 Reserve Bank  may leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged at
a 30-year low of 5.5 percent.  “This is an economy that’s not firing on all engines,”
said Nicky Weimar, an economist at Johannesburg-based Nedbank
Group Ltd., the country’s fourth-largest bank. “If we look at
the global economy, we may be in a soft patch for some time.
This may persuade the Reserve Bank to postpone that first rate
hike for as long as they can.”  The government has said it needs annual growth of 7 percent
in order to meet a pledge to create 5 million new jobs by 2020.
The central bank on May 12 cut its economic growth forecast for
this year to 3.6 percent from 3.7 percent.  Sappi Closes Mill  Johannesburg-based  Sappi Ltd. (SAP) , the world’s largest maker of
glossy paper, said on May 23 it’s started talks with staff and
labor unions about closing its Adamas Mill in the southern city
of  Port Elizabeth  because of falling demand and rising costs.
Pioneer Food Group Ltd. said on May 23 it’s in a “challenging
operating environment with volatile input costs trending upwards
and uncertain consumer spending patterns.”  Consumers have held back on spending as energy and food
costs climbed. The government increased gasoline costs by 4.8
percent in March and 3 percent in February. Retail sales growth
slowed for a third consecutive month to 5.1 percent in March,
while manufacturing grew 4.6 percent, down from 5.7 percent in
February, according to the statistics office.  “Growth in real gross domestic product has improved since
the recession experienced in 2009, but is insufficient to
address the burgeoning joblessness rate,”  Daniel Mminele ,
deputy governor of the central bank, said on May 27. “Growth
has not been excessive and there are tentative signs that this
positive momentum may be leveling off.”  South Africa’s rand traded at 6.9024 to the dollar as of
10:42 a.m. Johannesburg time. The currency has declined 4.6
percent against the dollar this year, the only one of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg to fall in relation to the U.S.
currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  