-- 
Statoil Partly Resumed Output at Njord Oil Field in Mid-May

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-05-30T14:47:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/statoil-partly-resumed-output-at-njord-oil-field-in-mid-may-1-.html
Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Norway ’s biggest
producer of crude and natural gas, said production at the Njord
oil field in the  Norwegian Sea  partly resumed in mid-May.  The Stavanger-based company shut production at Njord on
April 1 as a safety precaution after internal damage to the
flexible risers was detected during a scheduled inspection.
Spokesman Ola Anders Skauby couldn’t specify when full output
will resume.  “There are still some pipes that are damaged,” Skauby
said today by telephone. “Production is still considerably
reduced.”  Skauby said production at the North Sea Snorre B platform
was also still reduced, while other platforms affected by
similar piping issues were not expected to be shut.  Statoil shut three out of Snorre’s six risers about three
weeks ago due to concerns that documentation for some of the
materials used to manufacture piping were forged. Statoil was
notified earlier this year by its supplier NKT Flexibles I/S
that forged material certificates from one of the subcontractors
had been uncovered. The certificates were used in welded steel
components in risers at Visund, Snorre B, Veslefrikk and Norne.  “It’s the same type of components, but they are being used
in a different way,” Skauby said. “For the time being there
are no plans for either shutdowns or other impacts.”  Skauby declined to say how long production at Snorre B
would be reduced for or by how much it was cut.  The Snorre field produced on average about 116,000 barrels
of oil equivalent a day in the first three months of the year,
according to the  Norwegian Petroleum Directorate . Njord averaged
about 74,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in the same period,
according to the NPD.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  