-- 
Sudan Increases Pressure on Southern Army to Quit Disputed Border Areas

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-05-30T16:52:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/sudan-increases-pressure-on-southern-army-to-quit-disputed-border-areas.html
Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir’s
ruling party said it’s ready to use force to push out Southern
 Sudan ’s army from two key border states, raising concern of a
new conflict between the two former civil-war enemies.  The warning about Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile states by
al-Bashir’s  National Congress Party , reported yesterday by the
state-run  Sudanese Media Center , followed Sudan’s occupation of
the disputed border region of Abyei on May 21 and the flight of
more than 30,000 people from the area’s main town.  “It seems we are heading to serious skirmishes and serious
violence,” Fouad Hikmat, the special adviser on Sudan for the
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group , said today by phone
from Nairobi,  Kenya ’s capital.  Southern Kordofan, northern Sudan’s only oil-producing
state, Blue Nile and Abyei were key battlegrounds during a two-
decade civil war between the north and oil-rich south, which is
due to gain independence in July. Under the accord, the northern
and southern armies were due to jointly patrol the areas. The
north has withdrawn its forces from the joint units in the
south, according to  Southern Sudan ’s army.  “The NCP is raising the stakes very high for Southern
Sudan, they are putting them in the corner,” Hikmat said.
“Abyei, Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile: these are all factors
that could trigger war.”  ‘More Insecurity’  Southern Sudan’s vice president, Riek Machar, said today
that the authorities in the south have asked the government in
Khartoum to change their policy and said that ordering the
troops out of the two states “will create more insecurity.”  “Even if we tell them to withdraw, to go south, they are
not from the south, they are revolutionaries from the north,”
Machar told reporters after talks in Khartoum with his northern
counterpart, Ali Osman Taha, and al-Bashir, the first direct
negotiations since northern Sudanese forces seized Abyei.  Southern Kordofan currently pumps about 115,000 barrels of
oil per day, according to Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Co.  and Petro Energy E&P
Co. operate blocks in Southern Kordofan. The concessions are
mostly owned by  China National Petroleum Corp.  Other stakes are
held by  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd, or Petronas,  India ’s
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. and Sudan’s state-owned oil company,
 Sudapet .  “The main risk of conflict in the north-south border areas
relates to the parties’ mutual desire to control and protect
oil- and mineral-rich areas as well as strategic defensive
locations on principal routes between the north and the south,”
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in a May 17
report.  Oil Wealth  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in Southern Sudan, which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels of
oil at independence.  Negotiations between the two sides in the Ethiopian
capital,  Addis Ababa , on issues including their future relations
and how to set their border before Southern Sudan’s independence
have reached no agreement yet.  “The north has sabotaged the establishment of the
border,” Southern Sudan’s army spokesman, Philip Aguer, said
today by phone from the regional capital, Juba. “It seems they
want to establish the border militarily.”  Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile states, like  Abyei , have
ethnic groups loyal to the south and others that want to be part
of the north.  ‘Popular Consultations’  Both states were supposed to hold “popular consultations”
to decide their relationship with northern Sudan’s central
government, according to the peace agreement. A referendum in
Abyei scheduled for January on whether to join the south or
remain a special administrative region in the north was canceled
because of disagreements over who was eligible to vote.  Soldiers from the southern army were supposed to leave the
states after the “popular consultations,” which have not yet
taken place, according to Aguer.  As many as 60,000 troops in Southern Sudan’s army are from
Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile, according to Hikmat. An attempt
by the northern army to drive the remaining southern troops out
of those states, he said, may spark “a new rebellion” against
the north in those areas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 