-- 
Swiss Stocks Decline, Extending Two Weeks of Losses; UBS Falls

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-05-30T16:03:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-transocean-falls-kuehne-nagel-gains.html
Swiss shares fell, extending two
weeks of losses for the benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , as
investors awaited economic indicators later in the week from
China and the U.S.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the oil rig operator, declined 1.3 percent
as crude oil fell.  UBS AG (UBSN) , the biggest Swiss bank, slipped 1.1
percent. Swiss Re,  Europe ’s second-largest reinsurer, gained 1
percent.  The SMI of the biggest and most actively traded companies
slipped 0.3 percent to 6,470.8 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich.
The broader Swiss Performance Index lost 0.2 percent. Trading in
SMI futures was less than fifth of the average over the past 20
days as U.S. and U.K. markets were closed for holidays, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I would take it very easy today,” Henrik Drusebjerg, a
senior strategist at Nordea Investment Management in Copenhagen,
which oversees $220 billion. “We’re getting data from emerging
and developed markets this week and everybody’s looking if the
upturn has peaked. Also, we still have the Greek restructuring
issue lingering that could force equities much lower.”  Manufacturing data from  China , the U.S. and Europe will be
revealed on June 1 and the Labor Department’s monthly payrolls
report on June 3 may give insight into the strength of the
American labor market. Economists project a 185,000 gain in U.S.
payrolls in May after April’s 244,000 increase, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Debt Crisis  The SMI has declined 3.7 percent from this year’s high on
Feb. 18 amid renewed speculation the European government-debt
crisis will derail the economic recovery.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said May 28 that
he’ll press ahead with new austerity measures after failing to
win backing from the main opposition parties. An international
panel of inspectors has concluded that the debt-laden country
has missed all the fiscal targets agreed in its rescue plan,  Der
Spiegel  reported yesterday, without saying how it obtained the
information.  Transocean dropped 1.3 percent to 59.10 Swiss francs as oil
trades near $100 a barrel in  New York .  UBS fell 1.1 percent to 16.10 francs even as Swiss National
Bank Deputy Chairman Thomas Jordan said new rules that require
lenders to increase capital levels won’t impair their
competitiveness. Jordan made the comments in an interview with
Neue Zuercher Zeitung.  Swiss Re gained 1 percent to 50.20 francs.  Kuehne & Nagel International AG gained 1 percent to 132.30
francs after the 120-year-old shipping company won a five-year
contract from Spain’s Colomer Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  