-- 
Syrian Troops Backed by Helicopters and Tanks Kill at Least 14 Protesters

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-05-30T15:48:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/syria-protester-death-toll-increases-to-at-least-14-as-army-assaults-towns.html
At least 14 anti-government
demonstrators were killed and 100 people injured during an
assault by Syrian security forces that began yesterday.  The protesters were killed as government forces backed by
tanks, artillery and helicopters continued a crackdown on
rallies that began in mid-March, attacking the towns of Talbiseh
and Rastan near central Homs, said Mahmoud Merhi, head of the
Arab Organization for Human Rights. Four soldiers were killed
and 14 were wounded in Talbiseh,  Syria ’s state-run  SANA news
agency  said.  “There are tens of wounded, including children,” Merhi
said by phone today from Syria. “The situation is very bad.”
Demonstrations continued the last two nights in the Damascus
suburbs of Douma, Barzeh, Harasta and Daraya, he said.  Government forces have carried out widespread arrests since
protesters took to the streets in the suburbs of Damascus, the
capital, after 13 people were killed in nationwide rallies by
security forces on May 27 following Friday prayers. Those
killings pushed the death toll past 1,100 since demonstrations
against the government of President Bashar Al-Assad began,
according to Ammar Qurabi, head of Syria’s National Organization
for Human Rights.  Syrian opposition groups and activists will hold a
conference in Turkey tomorrow in support of the protesters,
Qurabi said. The three-day event in the Mediterranean city of
Antalya will bring together more than 200 people, he said.  Sanctions  The European Union announced sanctions on Syria on May 23
aimed at “the highest level of leadership,” as well as a
review of aid programs. The U.S. froze the assets of Assad and
top officials. In a May 19 speech, President  Barack Obama  urged
Assad to stop the killing and lead a peaceful transition to
democracy or “get out of the way.”  Syria’s government has blamed the unrest on Islamic
militants and “terrorist elements” seeking to destabilize the
country. Assad initially promised reforms in response to the
protests, which followed popular uprisings that ousted rulers in
Tunisia and  Egypt . Those pledges haven’t been repeated in recent
weeks as security forces stepped up their crackdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 