-- 
U.K. Mortgage Cap Would Help Cure ‘Addiction to Inflation’

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-05-31T10:30:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/u-k-mortgages-should-be-capped-to-cure-addiction-to-inflation-.html
U.K. lenders should cap mortgages at
90 percent of the property’s value and no more than three-and-a-
half times a household’s annual income to prevent another
housing bubble, the  Institute for Public Policy Research  said.  The U.K.’s “addiction to house-price inflation” is
damaging the economy and the Conservative-led coalition
government should make  price stability  a priority, the London-
based advisory group said in a report today.  “Britain has suffered four housing bubbles in the last 40
years, each of which contributed to major economic and social
problems,” Nick Pearce, a director at the IPPR, said in the
statement. “We need tougher mortgage-market regulation from the
FSA, especially caps on loan-to-value and loan-to-income
ratios.” The Financial Services Authority, or FSA, regulates
U.K. mortgage providers and other lenders.  House prices  tripled in the 10 years through 2006, rising
by 12 percent a year, IPPR said. Mortgage lending is 81 percent
of gross domestic product in the U.K., compared with 73 percent
in the U.S., 49 percent in  Canada  and 44 percent in western
 Europe .  No Deposit  The average loan for a first-time buyer was 3.15 times
annual household income in March, IPPR spokesman Richard
Darlington said by e-mail. In 2007, when the U.K.’s real estate
market peaked, 28 percent of all advanced mortgages had loan-to-
income ratios of 3.5 or more. First-time buyers regularly took
out mortgages of 100 percent of the property’s value.  The residential-property market is close to reaching a low-
point, the Centre for Economics & Business Research said in a
separate statement today. Prices will decline 1.4 percent in
2011 before climbing 16 percent during the four years through
2015, the CEBR estimates.  “There are signs that prices will stabilize over the
second half of the year,” Chief Executive Officer Douglas McWilliams said in the statement.  The ease of obtaining mortgage finance fueled the boom in
U.K. residential property prices and helped private landlords to
keep institutional investors out of the market. About 83 percent
of residential investors owned 10 units or less as of March 31,
according to the Association of Residential Letting Agents.  The value of loans taken out by private landlords increased
22 percent last year, Council of Mortgage Lenders data shows,
while mortgages obtained by all types of homebuyer fell 5.1
percent, according to the  Bank of England .  ‘Artificial Inflation’  “We should be encouraging institutional investors to
‘build-to-let,’ while discouraging individual property
speculators using buy-to-let mortgages which can artificially
inflate our housing market,” Pearce said.  Almost two thirds of non-homeowners believe they have “no
prospect” of buying a home, according to a survey published
today by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s mortgage division, Halifax.
About 77 percent aspire to own their own home, while nearly half
of those surveyed said Britain is becoming more like mainland
Europe in terms of the popularity of rented accommodation.  The lender surveyed 8,000 people aged 20 to 45 years old in
the U.K. and the results were weighted nationally to be
representative of the total population, Halifax said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 