-- 
UBS Sees Quarter of India Share Sales Pushed Back to 2012 Amid Stock Slump

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-05-31T06:06:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/ubs-sees-quarter-of-india-share-sales-pushed-back-to-2012-amid-stock-slump.html
UBS AG (UBS) , the fourth-biggest arranger
of Indian share sales in 2010, said at least a quarter of its
offerings scheduled for this year will be pushed to 2012 after
equities slumped.  UBS was involved in share-sale transactions worth $7
billion in India last year and sees a “significant drop” in
equity fund raising in 2011, Purvesh Shah, head of global
capital markets at UBS Securities India Pvt. said in a May 24
interview. UBS has not advised on any stock sales completed in
India this year, he said, declining to comment on how many deals
UBS is working on.  “It’s a complete swing in terms of the sentiment,” Shah
said at his office in Mumbai. “We have moved from being
optimistic during the end of last year to very highly risk
averse now.”  Stock sales are expected to slow in a market where the
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index has slumped 11 percent
this year on concern higher borrowing costs will hurt economic
growth.  India’s economy  rose 7.8 percent in the three months
ended March 31 from a year earlier, slowing from an 8.3 percent
gain in the previous quarter, the government said in a report
today. The median of 22 predictions in a Bloomberg News survey
was for an 8.1 percent advance.  Indian companies raised 245 billion rupees ($5.4 billion)
through domestic stock sales this year, down from 472 billion
rupees in the first five months of 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. U.S. companies raised $107 billion this year, up
from $54 billion in January-May 2010. The Asia-Pacific region
has had $89 billion of equity offerings this year, compared with
$104 billion in the first five months of 2010.  ‘Lose Patience’  A delay in government decision-making is also causing some
companies to put off their stock sales, Shah said. Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee appealed to business leaders for help
in generating support on some legal amendments, the Times of
India newspaper reported on March 2.  The government did not have the numbers to pass legislation
in the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of the country’s parliament,
the newspaper cited Mukherjee as saying.  “Overseas investors are starting to lose patience,” Shah
said. “Along with macro concerns like inflation, we are
grappling with a relatively weaker track record on reforming
certain sectors. It has reached a point where good quality
companies are finding it difficult to get trades done.”  Stocks have slumped as India’s central bank raised  interest
rates  nine times since March 2010 to curb rising prices.
Wholesale-price inflation quickened to 8.98 percent in March,
beating the central bank’s 8 percent target. Inflation will stay
“elevated” until September, Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said on
May 3, the day of the last rate increase.  Indian Oil  Overseas investors sold a net 23 billion rupees of Indian
stocks this year, according to data on the  website  of the
 Securities and Exchange Board of India  as of May 27.  UBS is among a group of banks hired by the government to
advise on a share sale for Indian Oil Corp., India’s biggest oil
refiner. Indian Oil plans to raise about $4.4 billion in the
transaction, former Chairman B. M. Bansal said in December. That
would be the country’s biggest share sale.  “Investors need comfort on the policy front for the Indian
Oil share sale to happen,” said Shah, whose firm helped manage
the $2.5 billion initial public offering of Reliance Power Ltd.,
 India ’s biggest private sector share sale, in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  