-- 
Hungary to Fix Exchange Rate on Household Mortgages, Will End Eviction Ban

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-05-30T13:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/hungary-to-temporarily-fix-swiss-franc-mortgages-until-end-2014.html
Hungarian banks and the government
agreed to temporarily fix exchange rates on foreign-currency
household mortgages and to lift a moratorium on evictions,
ending months of haggling over plans to relieve borrowers from
mounting debt repayments.  Lenders will fix the rate at 180 forint per Swiss franc to
eliminate the fluctuation of debt servicing for households,
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said at a press conference in
Budapest today. Accepting the fixed exchange rate will be
voluntary for borrowers, he said.  Orban is delivering on a campaign pledge to protect
foreign-currency borrower who were hurt by the forint’s decline
since 2008 and are unable to make payments. The measures both
protect those who can’t pay back their mortgages and those who
are suffering because of higher repayment obligations.  Hungarian household mortgages totaled 4.1 trillion forint
($21.9 billion) at the end of March, of which 63 percent were
denominated in foreign currencies, according to central bank
data. Over 100,000 such mortgages are overdue.  “Indebted families have become the victims of the previous
era and found themselves in a world of speculation against their
will,” Orban said.  The forint has weakened 12.5 percent against the Alpine
currency over the past year, reaching a record-low 226.4 forint
per franc in September. It has lost 6.6 percent against the
franc this month alone, the biggest slump since November,
trading at 220.7 in Budapest. Most franc-denominated mortgages
were registered when the forint traded at 160 to 180 per franc.  Rate Cap  Under the agreement, the exchange rate cap will be 250
forint per euro and 200 forint per 100 Japanese yen, Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said at the same press conference.  Swiss franc-denominated mortgages accounted for 53 percent
of the total mortgage stock, according to central bank figures.
The difference between the fixed-rate payments and the actual
exchange rate will be booked in a separate forint account where
the debt will accumulate or disappear if better exchange rates
emerge. Banks will pay for a state guarantee on these loans.  Debtors will have to start repaying the difference as of
January 2015 at a set interest rate, said Mihaly Patai, the head
of the Banking Association.  The government will lift a moratorium on evictions after
the July 1 deadline and agreed with lenders to set a quarterly
quota on the auction of foreclosed properties.  State-Owned Homes  In the first phase from July 1 to Oct. 1, banks will be
allowed to sell foreclosed properties that are worth over 30
million forint and carry a mortgage of 20 million forint,
Matolcsy said. In the fourth quarter, the quota will be 3
percent of all foreclosed homes, rising to 4 percent in 2013 and
to 5 percent in 2014, according to the minister.  Banks will sell the foreclosed assets at 35 percent to 55
percent of the market value when the mortgage was registered,
depending on their geographic location, Patai said.  The government will set up a national asset manager that
will take over the properties of non-paying debtors who will
continue to rent their homes from the state. Families agreeing
to move to a smaller home will be entitled to a state subsidy on
the interest rate of their mortgages for five years. The asset
manager will also launch a greenfield homebuilding program for
those who lose their homes, according to Orban.  Apart from OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s largest lender,
 Hungary ’s financial industry is dominated by foreign-owned banks
including the units of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  Bayerische Landesbank ,
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   Hungary will end a ban on euro-based mortgages and these
loans will become available for those who have euro-based income
of at least 15 times the current minimum wage, Orban said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  