-- 
Stocks Rally in Germany; BASF, Bayer, Metro Lead Benchmark DAX Higher

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-05-31T16:21:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/munich-re-alno-colexon-energy-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks rallied after Jean- Claude Juncker said European Union leaders will decide on
additional aid for Greece by the end of June and have ruled out
a “total restructuring” of the nation’s debt.  BASF SE (BAS)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN)  led chemical makers higher.  Metro AG (MEO) ,
 Germany ’s biggest retailer, gained 2.2 percent as a report
showed  consumer spending  increased in April. Steelmakers
advanced after Voestalpine AG reported higher earnings.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  surged 1.9 percent to 7,293.69 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt . The gauge has still fallen 2.9
percent this month as speculation grew that Greece will
restructure its debt and the outlook for other economies in the
region deteriorated. The broader HDAX Index increased 1.8
percent today.  “Markets are boosted by encouraging developments on the
subject of Greece’s solvency problems,” said Anita Paluch, a
sales trader at ETX Capital in  London . “German equities profit
from positive recommendations.”  Inspectors from the EU, the  International Monetary Fund  and
the  European Central Bank  are set to wrap up a review of
 Greece ’s progress in meeting the terms of last year’s 110
billion-euro ($158 billion) bailout in coming days. The EU will
then formulate its plan for further aid to Greece, which remains
shut out of financial markets a year after the rescue package.  U.S. Confidence  German stocks pared some of their advance after a report
showed confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly declined in
May to a six-month low as Americans’ outlook for business
conditions and the labor market soured.  BASF, the world’s biggest chemicals maker, surged 3.8
percent to 64.26 euros after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
earnings estimates. Bayer, the maker of aspirin, soared 2
percent to 56.95 euros, while K+S AG advanced 2.7 percent to
55.36 euros.  Chemical shares posted the best performance among 19
industry groups in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index today,
rising 2.5 percent, as BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research said
in a report today that “chemicals pricing and margins look
strong for April-May.”  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s biggest steelmaker, gained 3.3
percent to 33.01 euros, while  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , the second-largest,
advanced 2.6 percent to 51.35 euros. Voestalpine,  Austria ’s
biggest steelmaker, said today that fiscal full-year profit rose
almost fivefold as the global economy improved, forecasting
further gains.  Metro, GSW  Metro climbed 2.2 percent to 46.34 euros. German retail
sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, increased 0.6
percent in April from the prior month, when they fell 2.7
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists had forecast a 1.8 percent gain, the median of 23
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. Sales increased 3.6
percent from a year earlier.  GSW Immobilien AG surged 4 percent to 22.42 euros, the
highest price since the company’s initial public offering in
April. The Berlin-based property company said it returned to
profit in the first quarter with net income of 36 million euros
after a loss of 11.3 million euros in the year-ago period.  Roth & Rau AG (R8R)  dropped 3.5 percent to 22.40 euros, the
largest decline in two months. Chief Executive Officer Dietmar Roth said he doesn’t believe speculation the Meyer Burger AG’s
offer price for the company will go up or a further bid will
come from a third party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  