-- 
Turkish Lira, Stocks Rise After Central Bank Cuts Dollar Buy

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-05-30T09:13:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/turkish-lira-rises-after-central-bank-cuts-dollar-auction-amount.html
The lira headed for its biggest
advance against the dollar in almost two weeks and banking
stocks rallied after the central bank said it will reduce the
amount of dollars it buys in daily auctions from tomorrow.  The lira appreciated 0.4 percent to 1.5988 per dollar at
11:38 a.m. in Istanbul. A close at this level will be the
biggest gain since May 18. The main  ISE National 100 index (XU100)  of
shares increased 0.3 percent to 62,597.35, heading for the
biggest advance in almost a week.  The central bank will buy $40 million daily compared with
the current $50 million daily, according to an e-mailed
statement today. The Ankara-based bank said in a separate
statement today it may reduce the size of its dollar purchases
further if international capital inflows continue to slow.  “This shows that the central bank does not want further
lira depreciation,” Henza Tukel, a currency trader at Turk
Ekonomi Bankasi AS in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “The
dollar’s rise won’t be a one-way movement as the central bank
made known its position,” Tukel said.  Foreign investors reduced their holdings of stocks by $6.9
billion and  government bonds  by $2.8 billion between May 6 and
May 20, central bank data showed on May 26. The lira has
depreciated 3.5 percent this year, making it the second-worst
performer against the dollar after  South Africa ’s rand among
more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Growing worries for the sustainability of public debt in
some European countries has damaged risk appetite and led to a
relative slowdown in capital flows to emerging markets such as
ours,” the central bank said today.  The banking index rallied 1.4 percent after the central
bank said lenders’ profit this year may decline less than people
expect. Yapi ve Kredi Bankasi AS, the Turkish bank owned by
 Italy ’s UniCredit SpA and  Turkey ’s Koc Holding AS, jumped the
most since May 3, adding 2.1 percent to 3.91 liras.  Yields on two-year benchmark bonds fell four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.93 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  