-- 
Turkish Central Bank Reduces Daily Dollar Purchase Auctions to $40 Million

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-05-30T08:54:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/turkish-central-bank-reduces-daily-dollar-purchase-auctions-to-40-million.html
Turkey ’s central bank said it will
cut the amount of dollars it purchases in daily auctions after
debt concerns in European countries reduced currency inflows to
Turkey.  The central bank will buy $40 million daily instead of $50
million, effective tomorrow, the bank in Ankara said today in an
e-mailed  statement . The purchases may be “gradually reduced”
further if inflows continue to fall, it said in a separate
report on financial stability published on its website.  “Growing worries for the sustainability of public debt in
some European countries have damaged risk appetite and led to a
relative slowdown in capital flows to emerging markets such as
ours,” according to the statement.  “Today’s decision is less about the  exchange rate  and more
about fund entries,” Fatih Keresteci, a strategist for the
Istanbul-based unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a note to
clients. “For that reason, calling this positive for the lira
may not be absolutely correct.”  The lira currency gained 0.4 percent to 1.5989 per dollar
after the announcement. The currency fell 1.2 percent last week.  The central bank has increased  reserve requirements  for
banks four times since December in a bid to slow the annual
growth of  consumer lending  to 25 percent by year-end from about
35 percent.  Cutting the size of dollar purchases would lower the amount
of lira liquidity the bank provides and “reduce the need for
additional increases to reserve-requirement ratios in the second
half of 2011,” according to the stability report.  The bank raised the daily amount to $50 million from $40
million on Dec. 21.  The central bank’s international reserves were $89.5
billion as of May 20, 25 percent higher than the same period of
2010, according to the latest data from the bank released on May
26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 