-- 
Vedanta May Accept Cairn Takeover Conditions as Oil Makes Deal Attractive

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-05-30T13:10:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/vedanta-may-accept-cairn-takeover-conditions-as-oil-makes-deal-attractive.html
Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  may accept the
Indian government’s conditions for approving its planned $9.4
billion bid for control of  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR)  as high crude  oil
prices  make the deal attractive, investors said.  London-based Vedanta may agree to pay its share of
royalties from the nation’s biggest onshore oil deposit,
currently borne by Cairn  India ’s state-owned partner, according
to K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. and Aletti Gestielle
SGR SpA. Vedanta bought an 18.5 percent stake in April and needs
Cabinet approval to buy a further 40 percent from U.K.-based
 Cairn Energy Plc. (CNE)   “The rising oil price is the only reason Vedanta would
still be interested in Cairn India,” said Deven Choksey,
managing director at K.R. Choksey Shares in Mumbai. “The
royalty condition will change the deal valuations and prolong
Vedanta’s pay-back period. Only the oil price will keep them
going.”  Vedanta’s bid, announced in August, is valued at a total of
$9.4 billion, Chairman Anil Agarwal said May 5. As part of the
deal, Vedanta’s  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA)  unit bought 8.1 percent from
minority shareholders last month, paying 355 rupees a share.
Vedanta separately acquired a 10.4 percent stake from  Malaysia ’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and will buy another 40 percent from
Cairn Energy.  Panel Recommendation  A ministerial group led by Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee met May 27 and recommended approving the deal with
conditions, including reducing state-owned Oil & Natural Gas
Corp.’s royalty burden for Cairn India’s main asset, two people
with knowledge of the matter said. The panel’s advice will be
sent to the Cabinet within two weeks, Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said after the meeting, without giving more information.  ONGC, owner of a 30 percent stake in the oilfield in
Rajasthan state, previously said the deal shouldn’t proceed
without changes to the royalty agreement, which delayed
Vedanta’s bid to acquire 58.5 percent of the explorer.  Oil’s 33 percent gain since the deal was announced on Aug.
16 will help offset a drop in Cairn India’s profit if its share
of royalty from the field in Rajasthan state is recovered from
customers, said K.K. Mital, a  fund manager  at Globe Capital
Market Ltd. in  New Delhi . The change would cut Cairn India’s
earnings by 15 rupees a share, or 45 percent of the 33.36 rupees
for the year ended March 31, Mital and Choksey estimated.  Royalty Burden  Agreeing to bear the royalties for the Rajasthan field may
result in a burden of about $900 million for Cairn India over
the 12-year life of the field, said Jagannadham Thunuguntla,
chief strategist at SMC Wealth Management Services Ltd.  “From Vedanta’s point of view, the situation has already
improved as higher oil prices have made the economies of its bid
much better,” said Walter Rossini, who manages 250 million
euros ($358 million) in an India equity fund at Aletti Gestielle
SGR SpA in Milan. “Vedanta would want to close this deal as
soon as possible.”  Pavan Kaushik, a spokesman for Vedanta, didn’t answer two
calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  Vedanta plans to borrow $6 billion to fund the acquisition,
Chief Financial Officer Din Dayal Jalan said May 5. Of that,
$3.5 billion will be from bank loans, $1.5 billion from a bond
sale and $1 billion from equities, he said then. The mining and
metals company priced a $1.65 billion bond offering on May 27.  Bond Yield  Vedanta’s five-year credit default swaps rose 21.8 basis
points, the sharpest increase in almost seven weeks, to 505
basis points on May 27, according to prices provided by CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The yield on  Cairn India ’s 8.35 percent rupee bond due July
2012 increased to 9.88 percent to a record on May 27 from 9.76
percent a day earlier, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Cairn India declined 2.5 percent to 338.20 rupees in
Mumbai, the most since May 6. The company’s shares have advanced
1.6 percent since the deal was announced, compared with a 1
percent gain in the benchmark Sensitive Index of the Bombay
Stock Exchange.  Oil prices have risen every month from September and
reached a high of $113.93 a barrel on April 29. Crude for July
delivery was at $100.12 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:42 p.m. London time.  “Oil prices are expected to stay high and Cairn’s
profitability and cash flows are strong,” said Mital of Globe
Capital. “Maybe  Anil Agarwal  will realize that even at $80-$90
oil price, Cairn India will be a profitable cash cow.”  The explorer, based in Gurgaon near New Delhi, reported a
record net income of 24.6 billion rupees in the three months
ended March 31, a 10-fold surge from a year earlier, according
to a May 25 statement.  Vedanta has offered Cairn India’s Edinburgh-based parent
405 rupees a share, including a non-compete fee of 50 rupees.
Cairn Energy said in a May 27 statement it hasn’t yet received
formal confirmation of any decision made by India’s government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 