-- 
Vietnam Banks Bad Loans Rising Along With Rates, Moody’s Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-30T07:14:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/vietnam-banks-bad-loans-rising-along-with-rates-moody-s-says.html
The value of bad loans at Vietnamese
banks may increase as borrowers’ cash flows weaken because of
higher  interest rates , Moody’s Investors Service said today.  Vietnamese banks for which information was available from
annual reports in English booked a higher value of non-
performing loans as of the end of 2010 compared with a year
earlier, Moody’s said in a note today.  “This trend is continuing,” wrote Christine Kuo, a
Singapore-based senior credit officer for Moody’s. “The
increase reflected weakening corporate cash flows as a result of
lower profits owing to rising costs and higher debt-service
burdens because of rising interest rates.”  Vietnam’s central bank this month increased its repurchase
rate to 15 percent, up from 14 percent previously and from 10
percent at the beginning of the year. Lending rates at
commercial banks have climbed as high as 28 percent, VinaCapital
Investment Management Ltd. said last week.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung said in February that the
government will aim to curb credit growth at less than 20
percent this year, down from an earlier target of 23 percent.  “A slower pace of credit expansion will help control
inflation, benefiting banks’ funding and asset quality,” wrote
Kuo.  Vietnam ’s year-on-year inflation rate in May reached 19.78
percent, the highest in more than two years.  “While tighter credit will lead to rising non-performing
loans this year and possibly next year, lower credit growth will
encourage banks to focus on better borrowers,” Kuo wrote.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editor: Tony Jordan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji in  Hong Kong  at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  