-- 
LVMH Seeks Talks With Hermes, Won’t Be Passive

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-05-30T19:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/lvmh-doesn-t-plan-on-seeking-control-of-hermes-correct-.html
(Corrects Gode’s title in second paragraph.)  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) 
countered criticism from  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA that it is
seeking to disrupt the rival French luxury-goods company and
said it is seeking to cooperate instead.  “I challenge those who assert otherwise to produce a shred
of evidence” that LVMH has sought to destabilize Hermes, Deputy
Chairman Pierre Gode said today at Hermes’s shareholder meeting
in Paris. “We have continually sought a constructive dialogue
with Hermes.”  LVMH, which has built up a 20.2 percent stake in Hermes
since October, has tried to “destabilize” the company’s family
owners, its staff and suppliers,  Bertrand Puech , who heads
Hermes’s family’s holding company, said in an interview
published in today’s Le Figaro.  While LVMH’s investment in Hermes is “peaceful,” the
company won’t be a passive shareholder, Gode said, repeating
comments made earlier this year by  Bernard Arnault , chairman and
CEO of the world’s largest luxury goods maker. LVMH is ready to
work with Hermes to exchange ideas and know-how, Gode said.  “From the outset we understood that there was no
possibility of controlling Hermes because the family
shareholders spoke for 70 percent of the company,” Gode said.
“Our sole objective was, and remains, to make a long-term
investment in a company with recognized potential and with which
we share a passion for high-quality workmanship.”  The bag maker’s founding family members plan on retaining
control of the company, Puech repeated today. Hermes aims for
“good” sales growth this year, albeit at a slower pace than in
2010, Chief Executive Officer Patrick Thomas also said.  Hermes wants LVMH to reduce its stake by more than half to
free shares on the open market, Puech said in an interview in
February. Even if LVMH doesn’t reduce the holding, nothing will
change regarding the running of Hermes, Puech has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  