-- 
‘Hangover II’ Leads Record Memorial-Weekend Movie Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-31T21:36:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/warner-bros-hangover-ii-leads-box-office-to-weekend-record.html
“The Hangover: Part II,”  Warner
Bros. ’ raunchy comedy, led the box office to a Memorial Day
weekend record, taking in $103.4 million in U.S. and Canadian
ticket sales.  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc.’s “Kung Fu Panda 2” and
holdover “Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides” from
Walt Disney Co. helped propel the 4-day total to $276.8 million,
surpassing 2007’s $254.6 million,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said
today in a statement.  The R-rated “Hangover,” a follow-up to the 2009 hit, has
generated $135 million for  Time Warner Inc. ’s film unit since
opening on May 26. Its Friday-to-Sunday total of $86 million set
a new mark for a comedy, besting “The Simpsons Movie,” and
helped narrow 2011’s year-to-date decline in ticket sales.  “It’s doing more than doubling the first movie’s opening
and that’s way more than you can ask for,” said  Brandon Gray ,
president of researcher  Box Office Mojo . He called the opening
“sensational.”  The movie has a similar plot to the original. The main
characters wake up in a hotel room after wild partying with
little memory of what transpired the night before. As in the
previous film, the friends are played by Bradley Cooper, Zach
Galifianakis and Ed Helms.  “The Hangover: Part II” drew audiences even as poor
reviews led to a 64 percent “rotten” rating on
Rottentomatoes.com. “The Simpsons Movie” made $74 million in
its three-day debut in 2007. “The Hangover” also had the
highest-grossing R-rated movie opening, beating the $56.8
million set by “Sex and the City” in 2008, Hollywood.com said.  “Typically, comedy sequels struggle,” Gray said.  Estimate Surpassed  The movie cost $80 million to make, according to Box Office
Mojo’s estimate. Gray had forecast it would earn $70 million in
three days.  The original film cost $35 million and had sales of $45
million its opening weekend before generating $467.5 million
worldwide for New York-based Time Warner.  The animated 3-D feature “Kung Fu Panda 2” opened in
second place, earning $60.9 million in four days. Dragon Warrior
Po, played by  Jack Black , returns to battle a new villain, Shen,
while discovering secrets about his past. The movie also
features the voices of  Angelina Jolie  as Po’s ally, Tigress, and
 Gary Oldman  playing Shen.  ‘Panda,’ ‘Pirates’  “Kung Fu Panda 2” cost $150 million to make, according to
Box Office Mojo’s estimate. The original “Kung Fu Panda” in
2008 went on to gross $631.7 million worldwide. Both were
distributed for Glendale, California-based DreamWorks Animation
by  Viacom Inc. ’s Paramount Pictures.  “Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides,” the fourth
film in the Walt Disney Co. series, dropped to third place from
first, with sales of $50 million over four days. The movie has
taken in $163.6 million in the U.S. and Canada since May 20.  In “On Stranger Tides,”  Johnny Depp ’s Captain Jack
Sparrow is enlisted in a search for the Fountain of Youth.
 Penelope Cruz  co-stars as Angelica, a pirate determined to save
the soul of Blackbeard from damnation.  Geoffrey Rush  returns as
Sparrow’s rival, Barbossa, and Ian McShane plays Blackbeard.  “Bridesmaids,” from  Comcast Corp. ’s Universal Pictures,
dropped to fourth from second with $20.7 million. The film,
produced by  Judd Apatow  and starring  Kristen Wiig , has had sales
of $89.3 million in three weeks of release.  Year-to-Date Sales  The superhero saga “Thor,” from Disney’s Marvel unit and
Viacom Inc.’s Paramount Pictures, was fifth, adding $12.1
million to bring its total to $162.4 million in four weeks.  The U.S. Memorial Day holiday weekend is one of the summer
film season’s biggest for moviegoers. Revenue for the top 12
movies rose 46 percent to $268.2 million from the year-ago four-
day period, Hollywood.com said.  Sales for the year to date remain down 8.4 percent.
Attendance is off 9.7 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for May
27 to May 30. Percentage change column represents three-day
sales versus previous week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  