-- 
When Can the Chinese Expect Their Arab Spring?: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-05-30T04:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/when-can-the-chinese-expect-their-arab-spring-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Hillary Clinton  doesn’t make
mistakes. Let’s place to the side her unhappy 2008 run for the
Democratic presidential nomination, during which, as they say,
mistakes were made. As secretary of State she rarely makes an
unforced error. She does, from time to time, economize the
truth, even when speaking about perfectly awful regimes. But she
is a diplomat now, and this is a hazard of the vocation.  So when this diplomat, who does not generally make
mistakes, and who is proficient in the use of euphemism, speaks
bluntly about the failings of a country on which America is
disconcertingly dependent, my assumption is that we’re
witnessing a deliberate shift in policy.  Not long ago, I interviewed Clinton on the meaning of the
so-called Arab Spring. I raised the subject of  China , and its
own rough and hypersensitive reaction to the threat posed by
citizens speaking their minds. Our conversation came shortly
after the Chinese arrested many dissidents, most notably the
artist Ai Weiwei, who made the mistake of writing a Twitter post
about Tunisia’s Jasmine Revolution in February:  "I didn’t care about jasmine at first," he wrote, "but
people who are scared by jasmine sent out information about how
harmful jasmine is … which makes me realize that jasmine is what
scares them the most."  "A Fool’s Errand"  Clinton said, in reference to the Chinese leadership:
"They’re worried, and they are trying to stop history, which is
a fool’s errand. They cannot do it. But they’re going to hold it
off as long as possible."  As a professional newsman, it was my task to pretend as if
the secretary of State had not dropped a rather large bomb, and
so I resisted the urge to try to make eye contact with her
spokesman, who had shrewdly positioned his chair out of my line
of sight. I imagined he was giving Clinton the classic "Are-we-
absolutely-sure-we-want-to-condemn-the-historic-mistake-that-is-
the-Communist-Party’s-program-of-thought-control?" look.  I think that she meant to say what she said, and when I
reported her comments in the Atlantic, it became clear that the
Chinese also took her comments not as a gaffe but as a window
onto the true beliefs of the Obama administration.  "It is inappropriate for anyone to relate or compare China
to some west Asian and north African nations facing turmoil,"
the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu said. "And any
attempt to direct the  Middle East  turmoil to China and change
the development path chosen by the Chinese people will be
futile."  So who is right? Is Jiang Yu correct that attempts to
export the ideals of the Jasmine Revolution to China will be
futile? Or is Hillary Clinton correct that the autocrats in
Beijing are on a "fool’s errand"?  End of History  It is, of course, something of a fool’s errand to try to
predict the future of any country, much less an enormous and
confounding one like China, but here goes. One doesn’t have to
be an acolyte of Francis Fukuyama, who forecast the final
triumph of liberal democratic capitalism in "The End of History
and the Last Man," to believe that the world will ultimately
incline away from autocracy.  "The Chinese people are people, and they want what everyone
else wants, which is more say in how they lead their lives," the
author Gordon Chang told me. "It is clear that some sort of
representative governance will come to China. The problem is in
the transition. Transitions in China have always been turbulent
and deadly and chaotic." (Chang resisted the urge to predict a
date when the Chinese people will slip from the grasp of
autocracy, which was prudent: Ten years ago, he published "The
Coming Collapse of China," a book that may one day be counted in
the same canon as "Castro’s Final Hour," which was published in
1992.)  Nothing is Inevitable  One lesson of the Chinese Communist Party’s success in
creating Leninist capitalism may be that nothing is inevitable.  "The teleology of history has us heading toward more
openness and freedom, but has this new and very effective
Chinese model hijacked history?" asks Orville Schell, of the
 Asia Society . "Hillary Clinton told you what she said because
she believes it. She also knows full well that we’re at a kind
of tipping-point moment. In a certain sense history ended, and
then China started history again. We thought the Soviets were
going to send history in a different direction, and they
couldn’t, but the Chinese have a level of success in economic
development that the Soviets never approached."  Speech Control  The Chinese also possess something absent in the autocratic
Middle East: A technically sophisticated and all-encompassing
apparatus of speech control, manned by secret police and abetted
by private industry. It’s true that Iran and  Syria  make earnest
attempts at thought-suppression, but their efforts are amateur
by comparison (and they pale by comparison with their more
enthusiastic efforts to curb unacceptable speech through
murder.)  An accurate accounting of the number of Chinese bureaucrats
whose days are devoted to scrubbing impermissible thoughts from
the Internet isn’t known, but Rebecca MacKinnon, an expert on
Chinese Internet control at the  New America Foundation , says the
number rises into the tens of thousands, if not hundreds of
thousands.  She listed for me a large number of organizations focused
on speech suppression: The State Council Information Office,
which has offices in every city and in every province; the
propaganda department of the Communist Party; the Ministry of
Public Security; the Ministry of State Security; the Ministry of
Information, Industry and Technology; and the State
Administration for Radio and Television. Plus, she said, private
Internet companies all have departments that monitor their sites
for speech deemed unacceptable by the government.  Traditional Suppression  There is no sign that this system will soon come undone.
And if it did, China could resort to more traditional modes of
suppression: Schell describes a post-Tiananmen innovation of the
Chinese system, the People’s Armed Police, a million-man force
entrusted with "supporting stability," as being better equipped
to handle a Tiananmen-style revolt than the  People’s Liberation
Army .  "I don’t think we’re going to see an Arab Spring come to
China anytime soon," Schell said.  A more immediate concern for Hillary Clinton is that the
Arab Spring might not be coming to the Arabs, either. Since the
triumph of the Tahrir Square revolution in  Egypt , Arab
resistance to autocracy has met with terrible setbacks. In
Yemen, Syria, Bahrain and  Libya , dictators have learned that
freedom can be thwarted -- in part by the use of technology
suppression, but mainly by the use of limitless violence.  At the moment, at least, freedom doesn’t seem entirely
inevitable.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column: 
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column: 
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 