-- 
Yemeni Security Forces Storm Taiz Square, Killing About 20

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m ,   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-05-30T15:55:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/yemeni-security-forces-attack-protesters-in-taiz-square-killing-about-20.html
Yemeni security forces killed about
20 people when they stormed the central square in the city of
Taiz where anti-government protesters were rallying, according
to a medical official.  Security forces used bulldozers to destroy the tents of
activists camped out in the square, said Bushra al-Maktari, a
protest organizer. About 200 people were injured in the attack
today, Abdulrahim al-Samee, a doctor at the Taiz field clinic,
said in a telephone interview. Some 3,000 people had gathered at
the square to call for the release of six protesters who were
detained on May 26.  Freedom Square is “all ruins and smoke is rising all over
the place,” Maktari said in a telephone interview today.  Violence has been escalating in  Yemen  since President Ali Abdullah Saleh last week refused to sign a Gulf-backed power
transition accord that provides for his departure. Saleh
wouldn’t sign unless it was done publicly, rather than behind
closed doors. Before talks collapsed, he called the agreement a
“coup on constitutional legitimacy.” Leaders of the street
protests rejected the plan and demand Saleh’s immediate
resignation.  “There will be negative consequences for what happened in
Taiz,” Mohammed al-Mutawakil, a leader in the Joint Meeting
Parties, the six-party opposition coalition, said in an
interview. “The people of Taiz will feel frustrated and
oppressed and consider what happened is a behavior that has a
sectarian motivation.”  U.S. Statement  The U.S. embassy in Sana’a said today in an e-mailed
statement that the attacks were “unprovoked and unjustified”
and commended youth protesters who have “shown both resolve and
restraint.”  In a May 25 briefing with reporters, Saleh called the
protests a rebellion against his rule. The president, whose term
ends in 2013, has said he’s willing to hold early elections, a
call the opposition has so far rejected. The Joint Meeting
Parties initially accepted the Gulf Cooperation Council plan.  Police and snipers killed dozens of demonstrators in
Sana’a, the capital, on March 18, prompting several military and
government officials to abandon Saleh’s regime. Dozens were
killed in gunfights in the capital last week between supporters
of Sadiq al-Ahmar, leader of Yemen’s most influential Hasid
tribe, and pro-Saleh forces. Al-Ahmar said May 27 he reached a
cease-fire agreement with the government.  Tribal Clashes  Fifteen members of the Nihm tribe were killed in clashes
with Republican Guards led by a son of Saleh, as they tried to
prevent an army regiment from reaching Sana’a, the opposition
website al-Sahwa said May 27.  Islamist gunmen occupied government buildings in the
coastal city of Zanjibar yesterday. Army planes carried out
strikes on the buildings, Ali Dahmas, an opposition activist and
resident of the city, said in a telephone interview.  Saleh’s government has warned that rising social unrest
threatens to strengthen al-Qaeda, a concern also expressed by
the U.S. The group has sought to use Yemen, the poorest Arab
nation, as a base from which to destabilize neighboring  Saudi
Arabia , the world’s largest exporter of crude oil, and for
attempted attacks on international targets including two U.S.
synagogues last year.  A weak central government in Yemen also risks mirroring the
situation in Somalia across the  Gulf of Aden , where there hasn’t
been a functioning administration since 1991. Somalia has become
a breeding ground for pirates who attack shipping lanes.  Embassy Siege  Last week, the GCC secretary-general and the U.S.
Ambassador to Yemen were among diplomats in the besieged United
Arab Emirates Embassy in Yemen after protesters surrounded the
complex and blocked exit points, the official Emirates News
Agency reported May 22.  “If the U.S., the EU and Gulf states don’t stop training
and arming a regime that kills peaceful protesters to stay in
power, they risk stoking the flames of extremism rather than
fostering Yemen’s democratic development,” Letta Tayler, a
Yemen researcher with New York-based Human Rights Watch, wrote
in a letter posted on the organization’s website. “The
consequence could be far more problematic than a brief blockade
of diplomats.”  -- Editors: Louis Meixler, Ben Holland,  Karl Maier , Digby Lidstone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Taiz at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  