-- 
Zambia Says Barrick Has ‘No Cause’ for Concern Over Equinox

-- B y   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-05-30T20:32:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/zambian-minister-says-barrick-has-no-cause-for-concern-over-equinox.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , which agreed to
acquire  Equinox Minerals Ltd. (EQN)  last month, should have “no cause
for concern” over conditions on its takeover of Equinox’s
Lumwana mine in Zambia, the country’s mines minister said.  “I don’t see why there should be concern regarding the
conditionalities,” Maxwell Mwale said today in an interview
from Lusaka, the capital. He declined to comment further.  Barrick, the world’s largest gold producer, plans to take
over the Lumwana copper mine as part of a C$7.3 billion ($7.5
billion) buyout of the Perth, Australia-based company. Equinox’s
shares fell as much as 6.1 percent on May 27 after Barrick,
based in Toronto, said it’s in talks with the regulator to
modify the terms of  Zambia ’s conditional approval of the
transaction.  Barrick must let the Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
Investment Holdings, a state-controlled mining company, keep its
2.2 percent stake in Equinox as a condition of the approval for
the deal, the Zambian Competition Commission said in a statement
on May 27. Barrick must also honor Lumwana’s existing agreements
with a local smelter and suppliers, while limiting job losses,
the commission said.  “The worst-case scenario is Barrick’s tender offer for
Equinox gets a slight extension,” Catharine Sterritt, a
Toronto-based risk-arbitrage trading strategist at Scotia
Capital Inc., said today in a telephone interview. “We think
Zambia’s request can be readily accommodated.”  C$8.15 Offer  Equinox rose 22 cents, or 2.8 percent, to C$7.94 at 4 p.m.
in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. That was the biggest gain
since April 25, when Barrick made a C$8.15 per-share all-cash
offer for Equinox.  Equinox ended trading on May 27 down 4.6 percent after
Barrick said talks with the Zambian government on the takeover
were continuing.  Scott Brubacher, a Barrick spokesman, said today in an e-
mail the company wouldn’t comment beyond the May 27 statement.
John Lute, an external spokesman for Equinox, said in an e-mail
the company wouldn’t comment.  Barrick rose 8 cents to C$46.44 in Toronto. The shares have
fallen 12 percent since it announced its offer for Equinox.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Mukwita at   amukwita1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Frank at   sfrank9@bloomberg.net . 