-- 
Zuma Says NATO’s Bombing Campaign in Libya Reminds Africans of Colonialism

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-05-30T08:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-30/zuma-says-nato-bombing-of-libya-reminding-africans-of-time-of-colonialism.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
said the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s bombing of Libya
and disregard for solutions to the conflict proposed by the
 African Union  are reminiscent of colonialism.  “It is a very strong view within AU members that  Europe 
doesn’t respect the AU,” Zuma said in an interview with
Johannesburg-based broadcaster SAFM. “I think that, in a sense,
undermines the integrity of the African Union. This, in a sense,
reminds them of colonialism.”  Zuma is due in the Libyan capital, Tripoli, today to
discuss an AU initiative to end fighting as a first step toward
resolving the conflict. The rebels fighting to end Muammar Qaddafi’s four-decade rule rejected an AU peace plan last month
because it didn’t require the Libyan leader’s immediate
departure.  NATO airstrikes, carried out under a United Nations
Security Council mandate to protect civilians, have killed the
leader’s son and hit guard towers protecting Qaddafi’s Bab Al
Aziziyah complex in central Tripoli, according to the U.K.  Zuma hopes to secure an “immediate cessation of all
hostilities,” humanitarian help for civilians, guarantees on
the protection of foreigners, and a plan for political changes
which would pave the way for a lasting peace, in line with the
AU plan, Zuma’s office said last week.  NATO’s bombing campaign “prevented a timely resolution”
to the conflict as it torpedoed any chances of talks between
Qaddafi’s government and the rebels, Zuma said.  Libya ’s government gave  South Africa  false assurances that
South African photographer Anton Hammerl was alive in custody
while he had already been killed last month, Zuma’s African
National Congress party said last week.  Zuma said he will ask Qaddafi to give details on Hammerl’s
death and will seek to arrange to bring his remains back to
South Africa.  “The issue is certainly going to arise,” Zuma said. “Why
must the whole country tell us the false information?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  