-- 
‘Hole-in-One’ Cat Bonds Are Top Asset Eluding Quake’s Grasp

-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h ,   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-03-22T11:37:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/-hole-in-one-cat-bonds-rank-as-top-asset-eluding-japan-disaster.html
Catastrophe bonds may escape
 Japan ’s worst earthquake mostly unscathed, outperforming stocks,
commodities, junk-rated debt and the reinsurers they’re meant to
protect.  Insurers and reinsurers typically sell cat bonds to help
cover their most extreme risks such as an earthquake rocking
 Tokyo  or a hurricane with the force of Katrina hitting the
center of Miami. This month’s earthquake in Japan struck about
240 miles (380 kilometers) northeast of the capital, meaning
investors may pay insurers less than 10 percent of the $1.7
billion of debt sold to help cover losses, said Niklaus Hilti,
head of insurance-linked strategy at  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   “It’s almost like hole-in-one insurance,” said Nelson Seo, co-founder of Westport, Connecticut-based Fermat Capital
Management, which oversees about $2 billion, including cat
bonds. “It’s been very good returns, and most of the investors
in this space have been very happy with it.”  Cat bonds, whose owners risk losing their entire investment
if a disaster occurs exactly as defined under the security’s
terms, have returned 64 percent over the past five years through
March 18, with annual gains even following Hurricane Katrina in
2005 and the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008,
according to the Swiss Re Cat Bond Total Return Index. Only two
bonds among the more than 300 tranches issued have ever suffered
notable losses as a result of disasters, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  Relative Returns  The returns on cat bonds compare with global gains of 54
percent since March 2006 for Bank of America Corp.’s Global
High-Yield Index and the UBS Bloomberg Constant Maturity
Commodity Index. Stocks on the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index returned 10
percent in the same period, while the Bloomberg Europe 500
Insurance Index, which includes four of the world’s six biggest
reinsurers as well as companies forming the Lloyd’s of  London 
insurance market, lost 21 percent.  “The triggers are very specifically defined,” said Tom Keatinge, managing director in  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s insurance
capital management team in London. “Typically for a cat bond to
trigger you need a bull’s eye to be hit instead of a general
shot in the right direction.”  The 9.0-magnitude earthquake that struck off the coast of
Japan near Sendai on March 11 unleashed a tsunami that engulfed
towns, triggering the worst nuclear catastrophe since Chernobyl.  Insurers’ Losses  While the actual economic toll may be $200 billion to $300
billion, according to risk modeler Risk Management Solutions
Inc., the disaster may cost insurers and reinsurers $12 billion
to $25 billion, according to a March 16  estimate  by catastrophe-
modeling firm Eqecat. Rival modeler  AIR Worldwide  put insured
losses at 1.2 trillion yen ($15 billion) to 2.8 trillion yen,
excluding the tsunami.  “I would not expect to hear that cat bonds have been
triggered by events in Japan,” Keatinge said. “The losses
don’t seem that considerable.”  The Guardians of  New Zealand  Superannuation, which oversees
a NZ$16 billion ($11.7 billion) fund to help pay for future
pensions, doesn’t expect losses on its cat bonds because the
triggers of its investments don’t relate to that particular
location or event, spokesman Paul Gregory said. New Zealand
Superannuation began investing in cat bonds in February 2010
with $125 million, increasing that to a $300 million commitment
in May, including exposure to earthquakes in Japan, according to
the Auckland-based fund.  Significant Risks  Munich Re  and Swiss Reinsurance Co., the biggest
reinsurers, are among issuers of cat bonds with Japanese
earthquake coverage. Both companies declined to comment.  Cat bonds still carry significant risks and would get
crushed if a hurricane directly struck Miami, Seo said. The
Swiss Re index, calculated weekly, fell 0.31 percent in the
five-day period ended March 11, the Friday the quake struck, on
concern some securities may suffer losses. It tumbled 1.6
percent last week, the biggest drop since October 2008, as the
loss estimates came in. The declines ended 11 weeks of gains.  Cat bonds typically pay a floating interest rate that
ranges from the London interbank offered rate to as high as 49
percentage points more than the benchmark. Spreads on cat bonds
issued this year have averaged 786 basis points, or 7.86
percentage points, over Libor, narrowing from 824 basis points
in 2010 and 949 in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The premiums were 606 basis points in 2005, before
losses from  Hurricane Katrina  widened spreads, the data show.  ‘ Turning Point ’  The Japan earthquake may actually boost cat-bond returns by
driving up spreads on the securities for the first time since
2009 because the premiums reinsurers charge are set to rise.  “In the affected regions, I’m sure spreads will rise in
line with what is expected to happen in traditional
reinsurance,” said Henning Ludolphs, head of insurance-linked
securities at  Hannover Re , the world’s third-biggest reinsurer.
“It remains to be seen how strong they will rise.”  Investors may also benefit as more risks from insurers in
Japan,  Australia  and New Zealand, seeking additional catastrophe
cover, could come to the market, Ludolphs said. That would help
buyers of cat bonds diversify from U.S. hurricanes, which make
up  about half  of the risks covered by the securities.  ‘Turning Point’  “The Japan earthquake could mark a turning point,” said
Christophe Fritsch, head of insurance-linked securities at Axa
Investment Managers, the asset-management unit of Paris-based
 Axa SA. (CS)  “Reinsurers will probably increase the price of
reinsurance to recover the losses they incurred, which should
lead to cat bond spreads increasing.”  Ten bonds with $1.66 billion outstanding have triggers tied
to an earthquake in Japan, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Four
of them, including $200 million of debt due in August and sold
by Platinum Re’s Topiary Capital Ltd., require multiple
disasters to trigger payments. The $260 million Midori Ltd. cat
bond issued by Munich Re only covers earthquakes within 70
kilometers of Tokyo.  Standard & Poor’s  on March 18 put the Topiary notes on
credit watch with negative implications after the issuer asked
Risk Management Solutions to determine whether the Japanese
earthquake is an initial trigger. If the  Newark , California-
based modeler determines it is, the holders are at risk of
losing principal and interest for subsequent covered events that
occur through July 31, according to the statement. S&P said it
doesn’t expect to lower the rating.  Bond Triggers  Four other cat bonds pay out to insurers if certain
conditions are met regarding the specific strength and location
of the earthquake. Details necessary to determine whether those
bonds will be triggered haven’t been made available because of
the ongoing catastrophe, yet none of them will cover losses
linked to the subsequent tsunami.  One of the cat bonds tied to Japan earthquakes, Valais Re
Ltd., pays out if a certain loss amount is reached, as well as
covering tsunamis.  Cat bonds were developed after  Hurricane Andrew  hit near
Miami in August 1992 and help reinsurers maintain their credit
ratings by diversifying their exposure to the most extreme and
costliest disasters. There were $12.5 billion in cat bonds
outstanding at the end of last year,  according  to Aon Benfield,
the reinsurance broker of Chicago-based  Aon Corp. (AON)   Demand from pension funds will drive sales of cat bonds to
$6 billion to $7 billion this year, according to Axa Investment
Managers. Sales were $4.9 billion in 2010, Aon Benfield said.  ‘Small Fraction’  Cat bonds’ tendency to avoid taking losses may make
insurers think twice about issuing them in the future, said
Hilti, who helps manage about $3.5 billion of insurance-linked
debt at Credit Suisse.  “My sense is that the recent events will not increase the
appetite of cat bond issuers in Japan, because ultimately, the
structure almost failed to pay,” he said. “If there is any
payout, I think it is going to be a small fraction of the $1.7
billion, absolutely.”  Katrina was the first time that a natural disaster caused
meaningful losses for cat bond investors, when buyers of  Zurich
Financial Services AG (ZURN) ’s Kamp Re 2005 Ltd. security suffered
principal losses of $144 million of the $190 million in the
issue, according to Moody’s.  Glacier Reinsurance AG has also indicated that one class of
its Nelson Re Ltd. cat bond will likely experience losses from
Hurricane Ike, which slammed into  Texas  in 2008 and cost the
 insurance industry  $18.5 billion. The bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers led to losses on debt issued by the Newton Re, Ajax Re,
Carillon Re and Willow Re cat bonds, according to Moody’s. Those
bonds led to losses for their buyers as they failed to fully pay
back investors when the collateral proved more risky than
initially thought.  “It’s certainly not without risk, and you can get zapped
for a large amount on a big event overnight,” Seo said. “This
can happen anytime, even tomorrow, and that’s why a lot of
people have a hard time stomaching it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bryan Keogh in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at +1-617-210-4624 or
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  