-- 
Adobe Forecast Misses Estimates as Quake Curbs Japan Sales

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-03-23T00:29:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/adobe-systems-forecast-misses-estimates-as-japan-s-quake-cuts-into-sales.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , the largest
maker of graphic-design software, forecast second-quarter profit
that fell short of analysts’ estimates as the earthquake and
tsunami in Japan cut into sales.  Profit excluding some costs will be 47 cents to 54 cents a
share in the current quarter, Adobe said today in a statement.
That compared with the 56-cent average of analysts’ projections
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue will be $970 million to $1.02
billion, Adobe said. Analysts estimated sales of $1.04 billion.  Adobe pared its sales forecast by $50 million because of
the events in Japan, the company’s second-largest market after
the U.S. Some analysts had projected a larger hit after the
March 11 quake and tsunami shut down some power and
transportation systems and disrupted business.  Japan  contributes
10 percent to 15 percent of the  San Jose , California-based
company’s revenue each quarter, analysts said.  “The big speed bump, of course, is Japan,” Adobe Chief
Financial Officer Mark Garrett said in an interview. “We saw a
noticeable drop in our revenue.”  Patrick Walravens, an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in San
Francisco, said in a March 17 note to clients he was trimming
his second-quarter sales estimate for Japan by $93 million
because of the disaster.  ‘Budget Flush’  The company doesn’t know how long sales that would have
occurred in March, when many companies and the government in
Japan approach the end of their fiscal year on March 31, will be
delayed, Garrett said.  “March is their year-end, and you tend to get budget
flush,” he said. “I don’t think anyone understands yet whether
that flush rolls over into the next quarter, or just goes away
until the next fiscal year.”  Adobe rose 54 cents to $32.88 at 4 p.m.  New York  time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares were little changed in late
trading.  Adobe garners more revenue from Japan in February and March
than in other months, said Walravens, who has a “market
outperform” rating on Adobe shares. Thirteen percent of Adobe’s
sales came from Japan last year, the company has said.  Shareholders may have been bracing for a bigger change in
forecast, said Yun Kim, an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in New
York.  “Investors have probably digested that,” Kim said in an
interview. Excluding the lower revenue in Japan, the rest of
Adobe’s business is performing as expected, said Kim, who has a
“neutral” rating on the shares and doesn’t own them.  Japan Sales  Walter Pritchard, a Citigroup Global Markets Inc. analyst
in  San Francisco , said in a March 15 note that slower sales in
Japan may already be reflected in Adobe’s share price, which has
dropped 5.7 percent since March 10, the day before the
earthquake struck in Japan. Pritchard has a “buy” rating on
Adobe shares.  In the first quarter, which ended March 4, Adobe earned 46
cents a share in net income. Sales rose 20 percent to $1.03
billion. Excluding some costs, the company said profit was 58
cents, topping analysts’ average estimate of 57 cents.  “The other portions of the business are doing well,”
Garrett said.  Creative Suite  Adobe plans to release an update to its Creative Suite
software that will make it easier for designers to build
websites using the HTML5 Internet standard. Adobe released
Creative Suite 5, which includes the Photoshop and Illustrator
programs, last April. The next major version will arrive in
2012, Chief Executive Officer Shantanu Narayen said on a
conference call today.  The HTML5 standard, which is supported by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , competes with Adobe’s Flash Internet video and
animation software.  In the past year, Adobe has clashed with Apple, which bans
Flash on the iPad tablet computer and iPhone handset. Selling
HTML5 development tools and working with software developers who
create applications for smartphones and tablets running Google’s
Android operating system can help Adobe assert the importance of
its tools, the company’s executives say.  By embracing HTML5, Adobe gives Web developers more options
and positions itself to benefit whether programmers decide to
use Flash or HTML5.  “We really think of this as a ‘heads we win, tails we win’
situation,” Garrett said. More than 1,500 apps for Android are
built with Adobe’s Air technology, which is based on Flash,
Adobe said last month. Devices running the Android system
compete with those made by Apple.  Android became the world’s best-selling smartphone
operating system in the fourth quarter, outselling the iPhone
2-to-1, according to Canalys, a U.K.-based research company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  