-- 
AIG May Face Rivals in $15.7 Billion Bid for Assets Held by New York Fed

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-22T20:56:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/aig-may-face-rivals-in-15-7-billion-bid-for-assets-held-by-new-york-fed.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
may face rival bids to its $15.7 billion offer to repurchase
mortgage-backed securities it was forced to turn over to the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  during a rescue by taxpayers.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  is among investors considering making a
counter offer, said a person briefed on the matter, who asked
not to be identified because the deliberations are private. Seth Martin, a Barclays spokesman in New York, declined to comment.  AIG said March 10 it asked to buy back assets it had
turned over to a Fed fund known as Maiden Lane II when the
insurer was rescued amid a liquidity squeeze in 2008. The  New
York  Fed said the next day it is considering the offer as it
seeks a solution that “maximizes the proceeds to the
taxpayer.”  “We have been told that someone else was putting together
a bid,” AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 66, said
in an interview with the Financial Times, which reported
Barclays’s deliberations yesterday. “I think we can offer a
little more, but the price we offered is about it. Until I see a
competing bid, I’d have to wait and see.”  Mark Herr, a spokesman for the New York-based company,
didn’t elaborate.  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the New York Fed,
declined to comment.  The facility holds mortgage-linked assets that AIG had
purchased with collateral turned over by Wall Street banks
through securities-lending deals. When the housing market
collapsed, AIG was unable to reimburse banks that wanted their
collateral back, prompting the Fed to make about $22.5 billion
available to  Maiden Lane II  to take the assets off the New York-
based company’s balance sheet.  Values Rebound  The value of some of the securities subsequently rebounded
and the bonds have paid coupons, reducing the Fed’s investment
in the facility. At the same time, AIG has lowered its
obligations under a $182.3 billion bailout by selling units
including non-U.S. life insurers and a consumer lender.  AIG said last month it is seeking better returns from its
investment portfolio by extending the duration on its fixed-
income holdings.  “We expect the redeployment of cash in short-term
investments in the longer-term, higher-yielding securities will
provide an opportunity to improve future earnings,” Chief
Financial Officer David Herzog said Feb. 25 on a conference call
with analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  