-- 
All Clear Sounded as Markets Shrug Off Multiple Black Swans

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-03-22T20:49:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/all-clear-sounded-as-markets-shrug-off-multiple-black-swans.html
Global markets are signaling that
sustained economic growth will more than make up for Japan’s
worst disaster since World War II, rising commodity prices and
uprisings throughout the Middle East and North Africa.  Interest-rate derivatives, bond sales by the riskiest
borrowers and rebounding benchmark stock indexes all show
increasing confidence in the economy. New York-based JPMorgan
Chase & Co. is putting up $20 billion of its own money in a
short-term loan to finance  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s $39 billion bid for
Deutsche Telecom AG’s T-Mobile business.  Manufacturing strength from the U.S. to  Germany  and  China 
is giving economists more confidence that the recovery from the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression will continue.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecasts a global expansion of 4.8
percent this year, while JPMorgan calls for 4.4 percent. The
average over the past two decades is 3.4 percent.  “People are trying to balance the global growth with these
exogenous economic shocks,” said Charles Burge, the Louisville,
Kentucky-based head of investment-grade money management at
Invesco Ltd., which oversees $641 billion. “People are thinking
growth is the one that’s ultimately going to win and we can move
past these one-off incidents.”  ‘Black Swans’  Markets have consistently rallied amid those shocks, called
 black swan  events by Nassim  Nicholas Taleb , the New York
University professor and principal at Universa Investments LP.
Taleb’s 2007 bestselling book, “The Black Swan,” showed
history is full of events that can’t be predicted by trends. The
term refers to the belief that only white swans existed -- until
black ones were discovered in Australia in 1697.  Warren Buffett  said today that the  U.S. economy  is
“getting better month by month.” The chairman and chief
executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., which posted its
biggest profit since 2007 last year, spoke today at a media
conference in Bangalore.  This year markets have contended with the ouster of
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, battles between forces loyal
to Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi and rebels, protests in Saudi
Arabia, Bahrain and Yemen, oil above $100 a barrel, record-high
food costs and a magnitude 9.0 earthquake in  Japan  that killed
more than 8,000 people and crippled a nuclear power plant.  The events haven’t dented manufacturing that’s expanding
worldwide. The Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. factory
index for the U.S. rose to 61.4 in February, the highest level
since May 2004. China said in January that industrial production
rose 13.5 percent in 2010, while growth in  Europe ’s service and
manufacturing industries accelerated to the fastest pace in more
than four years last month, led by Germany.  Swap Spreads  The difference between the two-year U.S. swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, used to gauge investor
perceptions of credit risk, was at 20 basis points today, from
this year’s high of 26.13 on Jan. 7. That contrasts with last
year, when swap spreads surged to 64.21 on May 25 from 9.6 two
months earlier as concern mounted that budget turmoil in Greece
would infect Europe’s banking system.  Some of the riskiest borrowers are tapping the bond markets
for cash with relative ease.  The Philippines, rated Ba3 by Moody’s Investors Service,
sold $1.5 billion of dollar-denominated bonds yesterday,
completing its target for global financing and helping to cover
this year’s budget deficit. Intelsat SA, the commercial
satellite operator taken private in 2005, announced plans
yesterday to sell $2.65 billion of debentures in the second-
biggest offering of speculative-grade debt this year.  ‘Happier and Healthier’  New high-yield, high-risk bonds are reviving after issuance
of all types fell more than 50 percent last week amid the threat
of a nuclear disaster in Japan and growing tensions in the
Middle East. Relative yields on the securities ended yesterday
at 498 basis points, down from 522 on March 16, the most since
Jan. 14, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “The market has stabilized,” said Marc Gross, a money
manager in New York at RS Investments, which oversees $3 billion
in fixed-income funds. “I am not sure if risk is all the way
back on to where it was, but the market seems much happier and
healthier after a short-term panic attack last week.”  Corporate bonds of all ratings dropped last week as  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  led $41.2 billion in sales, a 58.4 percent decline
from $98.9 billion in the five days ended March 11, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Volatility Rises  Mutual funds that invest in junk bonds, or those rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s or lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s ,
had $471 million of outflows last week, the first time investors
pulled cash from them this year, Deutsche Bank said in a report.  Borrowers stepped back as volatility jumped. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, derived from the price
of S&P 500 options, soared 39 percent on March 15 and 16 to 29.4
for the biggest two-day gain since May, when the volatility
index reached its 2010 peak of 45.79. The index fell to 20.6
yesterday.  ‘Coming Back’  “We had a little bit of volatility, but we’re coming
back,” Invesco’s Burge said.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks climbed in each of the past
three trading days, jumping 3.8 percent to 1,307.42. The  S&P 500
Index  rose 3.3 percent and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced
3.9 percent to 272.33.  “The U.S. economy looks like it’s on solid footing and
earnings will continue to grow,” said Joseph Keating, the
Birmingham, Alabama-based chief investment officer at
CenterState Wealth Management, who oversees $1 billion. “This
is a buying opportunity. Time to get in the market.”  While investors pulled cash out of junk bond funds last
week, they poured money into those that buy high-yield bank
loans, according to Deutsche Bank reports citing Lipper FMI.  The U.S. Treasury Department displayed more confidence
yesterday, saying it plans to wind down its $142 billion
portfolio of agency-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities by
selling as much as $10 billion per month. It began buying the
securities after seizing  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  at the
height of the financial crisis in September 2008.  The  Federal Reserve  is continuing to pump cash into the
U.S. financial system by purchasing $600 billion of Treasuries
through June to spur jobs and avoid deflation in a strategy
called quantitative easing. Policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  have held the target rate for overnight loans between
banks in a record low range of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008 to fuel growth.  ‘More Confidence’  The Fed’s stimulus has helped support the economy and
buttressed markets, said  John Lonski , the chief economist at
Moody’s Capital Markets Group in  New York .  “There’s more confidence that at least the U.S. central
bank will not be shy about avoiding any close encounter with a
double dip,” Lonski said, referring to the odds that America’s
economy will slip back into recession.  AT&T’s agreement to buy  T-Mobile USA  from Deutsche Telekom
AG for $39 billion in cash and stock to create America’s largest
mobile-phone company is another sign of confidence in economic
stability, said Matt Toms, the Atlanta-based head of U.S. public
fixed income investments at ING Investment Management, which
oversees more than $500 billion.  ‘Good News’  “That’s a big deal and means there’s some confidence in
corporate managements that there’s enough stability to get it
done,” Toms said in a telephone interview. “You’re seeing
corporate investments such as that and that’s good news.”  ING is overweight high-yield corporate bonds, Toms said,
meaning the firm owns a greater percentage of the debt than is
contained in benchmark indexes.  The deal is the largest for AT&T since the acquisition of
BellSouth Corp. in 2006 for about $83 billion, Bloomberg data
show. It’s the biggest takeover to be announced in the wireless
industry worldwide since 2004, when Sprint agreed to merge with
Nextel Communications Inc.  “We have a growth economy that seems like it is moving
faster than it was six months ago,” said Jason Pride, director
of investment strategy at Philadelphia-based Glenmede, which
oversees $19 billion in assets. “Everything’s pointing in the
direction of an economic expansion. There’s still a lot of work
to be done, but it’s moving the right way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  