-- 
U.S. Says Libyan Campaign to Ease as No-Fly Zone Is Secured

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-22T18:21:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/allies-control-of-airspace-in-libya-puts-qaddafi-s-ground-forces-at-risk.html
U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates
said the intensity of the military campaign in  Libya  will ease
soon after allied forces imposed a no-fly zone on Muammar Qaddafi’s regime, enabling rebels to push out of their eastern
Benghazi stronghold.  The fighting “should recede in the next few days,” Gates
said at a press conference in Moscow today. Opposition fighters
advanced on the central gateway city of Ajdabiya, which is held
by loyalist troops, according to the  Associated Press . Qaddafi’s
army units continued to shell the western, rebel-held city of
Misrata for a second day, residents said.  The conflict, which began in February in Benghazi, is the
bloodiest in a series of uprisings that have spread across the
Middle East this year and ousted the leaders of Egypt and
 Tunisia . While the UN-authorized no-fly zone has destroyed or
grounded the Libyan  air force , Qaddafi’s ground forces continue
to violate Security Council Resolution 1973 by keeping up
attacks on civilians in Misrata, the largest city in western
Libya, Ajdabiya and Zawiyah, near Tripoli, said U.S. Admiral
Samuel Locklear, the operational commander for the allied
attacks on Libya.  The coalition is “considering all options” to make
Qaddafi comply, said Locklear, who spoke to reporters at the
Pentagon via telephone from his command ship in the
Mediterranean.  Oil Markets  Oil traded near the highest price in more than a week as
the airstrikes threatened to prolong a supply disruption. Crude
oil for April delivery increased $1.55, or 1.5 percent, to
$103.88 a barrel at 12:38 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . April futures expire today. The more-active May oil
contract advanced $1.33, or 1.3 percent, to $104.42.  Libyan rebels in Benghazi said they have created a new
national  oil company  to replace the corporation controlled by
Qaddafi. Its assets were frozen by the  United Nations Security
Council . Libya has the largest oil reserves of any country in
Africa, according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy.  Thirteen nations are now participating, according to
Locklear. Qatar is moving aircraft to be able to join the
military operation by weekend, he said. It would be the first
Arab participant, and AP reported Qatar was deploying two Mirage
jets and a cargo aircraft to a U.S. base on Crete.  NATO Discord  The question of who assumes leadership in a U.S. handoff
was unresolved, as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
inconclusively discussed whether to take charge. Norway and
Italy said their participation in air operations depends on
settling who will be in command.  France  proposed a new political steering committee, outside
NATO, take responsibility, Foreign Minister Alain Juppe told
lawmakers in Paris, according to Agence France Press. Wrangling
over the alliance’s possible role in the four-day-old air
campaign had exposed divisions over the command structure and
strategy for the fight against Qaddafi.  President  Barack Obama , speaking in Santiago,  Chile ,
yesterday said the U.S. would hand off its leadership role “in
a matter of days, not a matter of weeks.”  “This command-and-control business is complicated, and we
haven’t done something like this kind of on-the-fly before,”
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  told reporters in Moscow
today. “It’s not surprising to me that it would take a few days
to get it all sorted out.”  War Costs  The cost of initial U.S. strikes against Libyan air
defenses exceeds $168 million, including the use of  Raytheon Co (RTN) 
Tomahawk cruise missiles and Northrop Grumman Co. long-range B-2
bombers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  told lawmakers in  London  today that
the cost of U.K. operations in Libya are likely to run into
“tens of millions of pounds” and that it will be met by the
Treasury’s reserve fund, not the Ministry of Defense’s budget.  Air strikes enabled rebel forces to push out from their
eastern stronghold of Benghazi toward Ajdabiya as the United
States  Africa  Command reported that an F-15E jet crashed because
of technical difficulties and two crew members were recovered.  In Misrata, Qaddafi’s forces shelled the main electricity
station, cutting off power from most parts of the city, Mohamed
al-Misrati, a resident who witnessed the attack, said by
satellite phone from the city. Dozens of people were killed and
more than 150 others wounded in the ongoing attack on the city,
which involved tanks shelling residential areas, al-Misrati said
today. There are no reliable estimates of the number of
casualties from the weeks of fighting.  Air Targets  Attacks late yesterday targeted early warning radars,
communication centers and surface-to-air missile sites in and
around Tripoli and Misrata, aircraft hangars at the Ghardabiya
airfield, and an armored convoy south of Benghazi. The coalition
struck a command-and-control facility in a Qaddafi compound in
Tripoli, General Carter Ham, the U.S. commander for combat
operations against Libya, said yesterday.  The coalition flew between 70 and 80 sorties yesterday,
with more than half conducted by non-U.S. aircraft, Ham said.
France,  Spain ,  Italy ,  Denmark  and the U.K. enforced the no-fly
zone over Benghazi and coalition vessels patrolled the coast, he
said. Both Italy and France deployed aircraft carriers.  “Many civilians were killed last night because many of the
targets last night were civilian and quasi-military places,”
Moussa Ibrahim, a Libyan government spokesman, said in an
interview with Sky News. “The British government is killing
more civilians to save civilians. This is absurd.”  Qaddafi’s Fate  Obama and other alliance leaders, including U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
have declared that their political objective is to force Qaddafi
from power after more than four decades. Ham said it is
“possible” the Libyan dictator would remain in power for some
time.  China today called for an immediate cease-fire in the North
African country. The United Nations resolution authorizing the
military action was meant to “protect the safety of
civilians,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu said at a
briefing in Beijing today.  “The military actions taken by relevant countries are
causing civilian casualties,” Jiang said.  Prime Minister Vladimir Putin yesterday described the
allied offensive as a “crusade,” which his spokesman later
described as his personal opinion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  