-- 
Eurofighter's Combat Debut in Libya May Boost Sales of $106 Million Plane

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-03-24T15:19:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/allies-prepare-to-attack-qaddafi-s-ground-forces-debate-command-structure.html
Missions over Libya may spur sales
of Eurofighter GmbH’s 65 million-pound ($106 million) Typhoon
warplane as the enforcement of a no-fly zone against Muammar Qaddafi gives the jet a chance to prove its battle credentials.  The 1,500-mile-an-hour Typhoon, built by  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.,
flew its first mission with Britain’s Royal Air Force on March
21, and 10 of the planes are now stationed in  Italy , Eurofighter
spokesman Marco Valerio Bonelli said in an interview.  “It never hurts to have the ‘as used in combat’ stamp,”
said Francis Tusa, London-based editor of the Defence Analysis
newsletter. “It can only do you good.”  Eurofighter competes with jets including  Dassault Aviation
SA (AM) ’s Rafale, also patrolling over Libya after flying missions in
 Afghanistan  since 2002, and the yet-to-be-battle-tested  Saab AB (SAABB) 
Gripen. That jet is made in Sweden, where the government said
yesterday it might join the conflict.  The three planes are among models competing for a 126-plane
order from  India , the biggest military deal in play, in
competition with the  Boeing Co. (BA)  F/A-18E/F  Super Hornet , Lockheed
Martin Corp. F-16 Fighting Falcon and the MiG-35. Other fighter
contests for which European manufacturers are bidding include
 Brazil ,  Japan , Oman, Qatar and Switzerland.  ‘Small Footprint’  More than 260  Typhoons  have so far entered service with the
RAF and air forces in partner countries Germany, Italy and
 Spain , as well as with Austria and Saudi Arabia, the only export
customers to date. Working with coalition forces in a battle
environment is a key test for the plane, Bonelli said.  “Interoperability is very important for combat aircraft
because they transfer data between them, especially in an
operation like this,” he said, adding that Typhoons employed in
 Libya  are also accessing data from airborne warning and control
planes and unmanned drones often hundreds of miles away.  The Libyan deployment has also demonstrated the model’s
“very quick response and very small footprint,” with only 100
technicians accompanying the aircraft, the spokesman said.  Still, the jets are limited to an air-superiority role,
Britain’s Ministry of Defence says, meaning they’ll target enemy
planes in the air, rather than attack targets on the ground, a
capability the RAF planes won’t have until 2018. Bombing has
been allocated to  Panavia Tornados , designed in the 1970s.  Budget Concerns  It may take more than a single campaign, particularly one
where the Typhoon’s capacities are limited, to excite potential
buyers, says  Richard Aboulafia , vice president at Teal Group, a
Fairfax, Virginia-based consulting company. Britain’s failure to
commit fully to a third tranche of Eurofighter orders and an
upgraded radar may damp interest from other countries.  “I can’t think of one weapon system in history that was
given any kind of boost on the market by one particular
conflict,” Aboulafia said. “They need to provide the budget
roadmap that guarantees the plane’s long-term appeal as a
weapons system.”  There have been no reports yet of the Typhoon encountering
Libyan jets, said Douglas Barrie, military aerospace analyst at
the International Institute for Strategic Studies in  London .  Eurofighter said March 8 that London-based BAE,  Europe ’s
biggest defense company, had released a  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  Paveway IV
 laser-guided bomb  from a Typhoon test plane, a weapon that Tusa
of Defence Analysis said could in theory be deployed in Libya.  “In terms of boosting exports you want Typhoon doing this,”
he said. “Having spent the money there’s no reason it can’t.”  Rafale Role  The Eurofighter’s operational scope in Libya is narrower
than that of Dassault’s Rafale, which flew combat patrols over
Afghanistan as early as 2002 and took on a ground-attack role
there five years later. The “omnirole” plane has undertaken a
variety of Libyan missions from Saint-Dizier airbase in  France 
and the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier in the Mediterranean.  “It has been used for air-to-air missions, air-to-ground
to hit targets, for reconnaissance and even as a tanker,” said
Colonel Thierry Burkhard, a spokesman for the French joint armed
forces. “It’s completely multi-functional. You can prepare the
plane and choose the mission while you’re flying.”  France has been offering the Rafale for export since 2000
but hasn’t won a single contract after competing unsuccessfully
in South Korea,  Singapore  and Morocco. Libya had even emerged as
potential customer after Qaddafi visited France in 2007.  Shot Down  “I have been little short of amazed about how low-beat the
French have been on Rafale’s profile in Libya,” said Tusa, a
defence analyst for 15 years. “They are desperate to sell it.”  The French air force bombed a Libyan military airbase 150
miles inland last night, Burkhard said at a Paris briefing,
while the New York Post said on its website that French fighters
shot down a Soko G-2 Galeb. The plane is a reconnaissance and
ground-attack model built in the former Yugoslavia until 1983.  While Libya’s air force includes more than 100 Russian MiG
jets, “much of it is obsolete or inoperable,” the Pentagon
said this month before the no-fly zone was imposed. It also has
two Dassault Mirage fighters out of an original fleet of 12.  The Saab Gripen, which first flew in 1988, two years after
the Rafale and six years before the Typhoon, has racked up
150,000 flying hours and is a proven fighter, despite never
having operated a combat mission, spokesman Lasse Jansson said.  “It’s not something we are asked when we’re out marketing
the aircraft,” Jansson said by telephone. “Most potential
customers know that Gripen has demonstrated these things.”  Command Chain  While the plane has been exported to  South Africa  and
Thailand, work may run out in 2012 and an upgrade isn’t due to
join  Sweden ’s air force until at least 2017. Sweden would make
entry into the Libyan conflict contingent on a clearer chain of
command, Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said yesterday.  U.S. fighter aircraft operating in Libya include the F-16
and Boeing’s F-15E Strike Eagle, one of which crashed on March
21 after what the Pentagon said was “an equipment malfunction.”  Coalition leaders say they’ve already crippled Qaddafi’s
air force and are now concentrating on his army. The conflict,
which began in February in the eastern city of Benghazi, is the
bloodiest in a series of uprisings that have spread across the
Middle East and ousted the leaders of Egypt and Tunisia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris via 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  