-- 
Altman's Evercore Climbs Wall Street's Deal-Advisory Ranks With AT&T Coup

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-03-22T14:06:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/altman-s-evercore-climbs-wall-street-s-deal-advisory-ranks-with-at-t-coup.html
Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , the
investment bank led by  Roger Altman , is climbing the ranks of
Wall Street’s top advisers on mergers and acquisitions after
winning roles in some of the year’s biggest deals.  The company’s stock jumped 12 percent yesterday as
investors anticipated a boost in fee revenue from the firm’s
work on  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s $39 billion takeover of  T-Mobile USA , this
year’s biggest acquisition.  The deal builds on a winning streak for Evercore. The firm
advised Sanofi-Aventis SA on its $20.1 billion purchase of
Genzyme Corp. announced in February and worked with  Lubrizol
Corp. (LZ)  on its $9.2 billion sale to  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. Altman, a former deputy secretary of the  U.S.
Treasury , has expanded Evercore into a more than 600-employee
firm since founding the New York-based company in 1996.  “We are not a small boutique anymore,” Altman, 64, said
in an interview. “We now have advised on three of the five
largest global merger agreements of 2011.”  Those deals have helped Evercore jump into the No. 9 slot
for M&A advisers so far this year, capturing 10 percent of the
market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Last year, the
bank was 16th with a 3 percent market share, the data show.  In the T-Mobile deal, Evercore joined Greenhill & Co.,
another independent investment bank, and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
the top ranked M&A adviser this year, in advising Dallas-based
AT&T.  Deals This Week  Evercore’s relationship with AT&T started in 2006 when it
advised the company on its acquisition of BellSouth Corp. for
$102 billion including debt. Since then, the firm has maintained
a “good relationship” with the company, Altman said.  The bank also advised Chicago-based OptionsXpress Holdings
Inc. on its $1 billion sale to  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  announced
yesterday and was the exclusive financial adviser to Internet-
photo company  Shutterfly Inc. (SFLY)  on its $333 million agreement to
buy Tiny Prints Inc. Additionally, the firm provided financial
advice to Severstal OAO on its $1.2 billion sale of three U.S.
plants to Renco Group Inc. announced this month.  “We are encouraged by the uptick in activity,” said
Warren Gardiner, an analyst at Ticonderoga Securities, in a note
to clients yesterday, raising his recommendation for Evercore’s
shares to “buy” from “neutral.” “We also view the recent
improvement in the backlog as somewhat of a safety net if deal
activity begins to stall.”  Evercore slipped 9 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $33.97 as of
10 a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading after
gaining the most yesterday in two years. After the advance, the
stock is down 0.1 percent this year, giving the bank a market
value of $1.27 billion.  ‘Hiring Aggressively’  A majority of the firm’s revenue comes from  investment
banking , which totaled $301.9 million in 2010, compared with
$293.3 million in 2009, according to a  filing  with securities
regulators. Evercore also has an investment management business,
which brought in revenue of $77.6 million last year, compared
with $23.3 million a year earlier.  Any increase in fees would benefit members of the firm, who
collectively own 47 percent of the company, according to a
December presentation on Evercore’s  website .  The firm has more than doubled its headcount since 2007,
when it employed 289, and had 610 workers at the end of 2010,
according to its latest regulatory filing. Evercore has 59
partners, typically adds five to seven annually and is likely to
do so again this year, Altman said.  “They’ve hired pretty aggressively the past few years,”
said Devin Ryan, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners in New
York. “They’ve increased their headcount of senior advisers,
and the people they’ve brought in have been generally heads of
businesses or heads of sectors at the largest investment
banks.”  New Hires  Evercore announced yesterday that it hired Eric Mandl, a
 UBS AG (UBSN)  banker who has advised clients including Dell Inc. on
takeovers, to cover technology and Internet companies.  Last year, the firm hired Perk Hixon, formerly of Lazard
Ltd., to lead its new mining, metals and materials advisory
group. It also added Philip Kassin, a former executive at
billionaire Len Blavatnik’s Access Industries Holdings LLC, to
focus on advising companies in the chemicals and energy
industries.  Altman has also expanded internationally. To tap emerging
markets, Evercore set up an advisory and investment venture in
2009 with Beijing-based brokerage Citic Securities Co. Last
September, Evercore agreed to pay $20 million for a 50 percent
interest in G5 Advisors, a Sao Paulo-based investment banking
boutique founded by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner
Corrado Varoli.  Altman began his banking career at Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and served in the Carter administration as assistant
secretary of the Treasury. In the 1980s, he joined Blackstone
Group LP. He was deputy Treasury secretary in the Clinton
administration from 1993 to 1995.  In addition to advising takeovers, Evercore works on
corporate restructurings. In 2009, it helped lead General Motors
Corp. through bankruptcy, and in 2010, helped with the Detroit-
based carmaker’s $23.1 billion initial public offering, which
was the year’s largest.  “They have always banked large, multinational companies in
the past,” said Ryan at Sandler O’Neill. “In growing, they’ve
kept that high profile.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 