-- 
America Movil Debt Sales to Decline After ‘Exceptional’ 2010

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-03-22T20:17:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/america-movil-cfo-says-debt-sales-will-decline-after-exceptional-2010.html
America Movil  SAB, the biggest debt
issuer in Latin America last year, will reduce bond sales in
2011, having met its needs for long-term financing and a $23
billion acquisition, the company’s chief financial officer said.  “I don’t foresee such exceptional operations,” CFO Carlos Garcia Moreno said last week in a telephone interview. “Today
we have a good liquidity position.”  America Movil, the largest mobile-phone company in the
Americas, will pay about 14.4 billion pesos ($1.2 billion) in
dividends this year and split its stock 2 for 1. The Mexico
City-based company issued $8.5 billion in bonds last year in
Mexico and abroad, edging out the total debt sold by state-run
oil producer  Petroleos Mexicanos , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Garcia Moreno, 54, said he began meeting with banks on
March 18 to replace a five-year-old, $2 billion credit line
expiring in April with two syndicated revolving credit lines of
$2 billion each. A dollar-denominated line will be for 3 1/2
years, and a euro-denominated line will be for five years, he
said.  The credit lines will give flexibility to America Movil,
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , if acquisition
opportunities arise or debt markets tighten, Garcia Moreno said.
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  have been
involved in the discussions.  Telmex Purchase  America Movil completed a $23 billion acquisition last year
of Telmex Internacional SAB and its holding company, Carso
Global Telecom SAB, both controlled by Slim. The purchase gave
America Movil a majority stake in its former parent, Telefonos
de  Mexico  SAB.  The company, which offered Telmex Internacional
shareholders the choice of being paid in cash or stock, had to
borrow to be prepared if a large portion of shareholders
accepted cash, Garcia Moreno said. Shareholders ended up
accepting 26.8 billion pesos in cash and 44.2 billion pesos in
shares for Telmex Internacional, plus 222 billion pesos in
shares for Carso Global Telecom.  The company spent an additional $2.7 billion between
October and January to buy preferred shares of Net Servicos de
Comunicacao SA,  Brazil ’s biggest cable-TV operator.  At the same time, America Movil was replacing bonds
expiring in the coming years with longer-term debt at low fixed
 interest rates , Garcia Moreno said. That work is largely
complete, he said.  New Debt  This year, America Movil offered to exchange new debt for
Telmex bonds totaling $1.3 billion. The company acquired about
$370 million in Telmex bonds, and Telmex announced this month
that it spent $394 million to pay off those bonds.  Last year’s debt sales included $4 billion in dollar bonds,
a $3 billion sale in the euro and pound bond markets, $1.2
billion in Mexican bonds, $215 million in Swiss franc bonds and
$198 million in Chilean peso bonds. The company continues to
explore debt issues in a diverse group of markets because of the
flexibility it provides and the access it gives to investors,
Garcia Moreno said.  “It’s always preferable to have more options than fewer,”
he said. Foreign investors who want to diversify from their
local markets will find America Movil a good proxy for investing
in Latin America, since the company has operations in 17
countries in the region, plus the U.S., he said.  Coming Due  America Movil has about 19.8 billion pesos in bonds and
loans due through 2012, according to Bloomberg data. The company
will generate about 147 billion pesos in free  cash flow  this
year, according to estimates from Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  The stock split proposal, which will face an investor vote
in a meeting to be held before April 30, is designed to make
America Movil’s shares accessible to a wider group of investors,
not just large funds, Garcia Moreno said.  The split, the second in America Movil’s decade-long
history, would bring the price of the shares closer to where
they first began trading after the spinoff from Telmex, he said.
They closed at 9.95 pesos on their first day, Feb. 7, 2001.  America Movil rose 47 centavos to 32.80 pesos at 4:10 p.m.
New York time in Mexico City trading.  The company also may list its stock in other markets to
provide more access for investors, Garcia Moreno said. The
shares are listed in Mexico, the U.S. and  Madrid ’s Mercado de
Valores Latinamericano.  Japan ’s earthquake and nuclear crisis, along with  Europe ’s
debt problems and unrest in Africa and the Middle East, are
putting pressure on the economic recovery, Garcia Moreno said.  “It’s clear that the economy has improved, but it’s still
a weak recovery, and there are doubts,” he said. “There are
still reasons to stay alert.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  