-- 
Apple, Amazon, Barry Bonds, Wisconsin Law, Insider Trading in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-03-22T12:28:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/apple-amazon-microsoft-sports-insider-trading-in-court-news.html
Zain Fancy, who joined  Och-Ziff
Capital Management Group LLC (OZM)  from Morgan Stanley in 2008, sued
two units of the New York-based hedge fund manager in  Singapore ,
claiming they withheld $7.9 million in pay and stock that he was
owed.  Och-Ziff Real Estate Singapore Pte, a venture in which
Fancy was the founding partner and executive managing director,
had no basis for firing him in October and owed him $1 million
in wages and $6.9 million worth of stock, according to Fancy’s
lawsuit filed with the Singapore High Court. A closed hearing is
scheduled for March 25.  Fancy acted in bad faith by not fully disclosing his
involvement in a probe by the U.S. Department of Justice and the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission into  alleged corruption
at Morgan Stanley , where he had been head of the bank’s real
estate business in  Asia , according to court papers filed by Och-
Ziff.  “Mr. Fancy’s involvement in pending investigations,
coupled with other factors unrelated to Och-Ziff, have prevented
the parties from raising third-party capital for the venture and
rendered the venture unworkable,” Chief Financial Officer Joel
Frank said in a filing. “His actions have resulted in a breach
of trust.”  Fancy didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment. His
lawyer Cavinder Bull from Drew & Napier LLC declined to comment
as did Och-Ziff spokesman Jonathan Gasthalter. SEC spokesman
John Nester and Justice Department spokeswoman Laura Sweeney
also declined to comment.  The case is Zain Asif Fancy v. Och-Ziff Real Estate
Singapore Anor S787/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  For more, click here.  Apple Claims Amazon.com Improperly Using ‘App Store’ Trademark  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sued  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , saying the online retailer
is improperly using Apple’s “App Store” trademark for a mobile
software developer program.  Apple, in a complaint filed March 18, accused Amazon.com of
trademark infringement and unfair competition and asks for a
court order to prevent the company from using the “App Store”
name as well as for unspecified damages.  Apple’s App Store offers software downloads, by the company
and by third-party developers, for users of its iPhones, iPods
and iPads. There have been more than 10 billion downloads
through the service since it was started in 2008, Apple said in
the complaint.  Amazon.com since January has started to solicit developers
for a future mobile software download service, Apple said.
Amazon.com has used “Amazon Appstore Developer Portal” and
“Amazon Appstore” in connection with this service, according
to the complaint.  “We have a long-standing practice of not commenting on
pending litigation,” Mary Osako, a spokeswoman for Seattle-
based Amazon, said yesterday.  The case is Apple v. Amazon.com, 11-1327, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California .  For more, click here.  Microsoft Seeks to Block Imports of Barnes & Noble’s Nook  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  yesterday said it filed patent-infringement
claims against Barnes & Noble Inc., seeking to block U.S.
imports of the Nook e-reader in the latest legal dispute over
the Android operating system.  Microsoft said it filed complaints with the U.S.
International Trade Commission in  Washington  and in federal
court in  Seattle  against Barnes & Noble and the Nook’s
manufacturers,  Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038)  and Inventec
Co. Ltd. after yearlong licensing talks failed.  The Nook uses  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, and
is infringing patents “that are essential to the user
experience,” Microsoft said in a statement. Microsoft, which
makes the rival Windows-based operating system, filed a
complaint in October against Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.
over Android-based smartphones.  “The Android platform infringes a number of Microsoft’s
patents, and companies manufacturing and shipping Android
devices must respect our intellectual property rights,”  Horacio
Gutierrez , Microsoft’s deputy general counsel for intellectual
property and licensing, said in a statement.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft has created a patent-
licensing program just for Android device manufacturers,
Gutierrez said. HTC Corp., which makes phones for both the
Android and Windows systems, signed a license with Microsoft
last year.  “Their refusals to take licenses leave us no choice but to
bring legal action” against New York-based Barnes & Noble,
Foxconn and Inventec, he said.  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble,
declined to comment. The Nook is Barnes & Noble’s best-selling
product, and sales of the device last quarter drove the
company’s first increase in same-store sales since 2007.  Suits and patent-licensing deals are likely to increase
industrywide this year, Gutierrez said in January, as the pace
of new device introductions increases. The new products combine
so many different components, it’s unlikely any company will own
all the intellectual property they use, he said.  The civil case is Microsoft Corp. v.  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ,
11cv343, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Washington (Seattle).  For more, click here.  Mylan Sues U.S. FDA to Block Ranbaxy’s Sale of Lipitor Copy  Mylan Inc. sued the U.S. Food and Drug Administration,
seeking to block  India ’s  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) ’s exclusive
rights to sell a generic version of Pfizer Inc.’s cholesterol
pill Lipitor, the world’s best-selling medicine.  Mylan and other generic-drug makers should be allowed to
enter the market as soon as Lipitor’s patent expires in June
because of manufacturing violations at two Ranbaxy factories in
India, Mylan said in a complaint filed March 18 in federal court
in Washington. Ranbaxy, 64 percent owned by Tokyo-based Daiichi
Sankyo Co., fell the most in almost two years in Mumbai.  Ranbaxy has said it is entitled to 180 days of marketing
exclusivity as a reward for being the first to challenge the
Lipitor patents. The drugmaker, based in Gurgaon near New Delhi,
reached an agreement with Pfizer in 2008 to sell copies of the
medicine beginning Nov. 30. The FDA has yet to clear any of the
generic competitors as equivalent to brand-name Lipitor.  “It’s the first time someone is openly challenging
Ranbaxy’s exclusivity for Lipitor,” said Bino Pathiparampil, a
Mumbai-based analyst at India Infoline Ltd. “It is
incrementally negative for sure” for Ranbaxy.  Ranbaxy declined to comment on the lawsuit in an e-mail
statement.  The case is Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. U.S. Food and
Drug Administration, 11-566, U.S. District Court for the
District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Greenberg’s Starr Sues  China  MediaExpress, Alleging Fraud  Starr International Co., a firm run by former  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  Chief Executive Officer Maurice
“Hank” Greenberg, sued  China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME)  and
its auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, saying it was fraudulently
induced into investing about $13.5 million.  The suit from Starr Investments Cayman II Inc., filed in
U.S. federal court in  Delaware  on March 18, says Hong Kong-based
China MediaExpress misrepresented its business and finances.
Chief Executive Officer Zheng Cheng and Chief Financial Officer
Jacky Lam were also named in the suit. Lam quit earlier this
month.  Greenberg, through Starr International and C.V. Starr &
Co., is the third-largest China MediaExpress holder with 4.55
million shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Starr
International purchased about 1.5 million shares in October,
then valued at about $13.5 million. Shares of China
MediaExpress, which says it provides advertising on buses in
China, have been halted in the U.S. since March 11 after
plunging 48 percent in six weeks. The company said March 14 that
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu resigned.  China MediaExpress didn’t respond to an e-mail message sent
to its investor relations department outside regular business
hours in  Hong Kong . Jake Sokol, a C.V. Starr spokesman, declined
to comment.  Trials/Appeals  Barry Bonds  Perjury Trial Over Alleged Steroid Use Begins  Home run record holder Barry Bonds’s trial to determine if
he committed perjury when he said he never knowingly took
steroids began yesterday with jury selection in federal court in
 San Francisco .  Bonds, 46, who broke Hank Aaron’s record of 755 career home
runs in August 2007, faces four counts of perjury and one count
of obstruction of justice for telling a grand jury in 2003 that
he didn’t knowingly take performance-enhancing drugs. The
maximum sentence for each of the counts is 10 years in prison
and a $250,000 fine. Bonds, who was first charged in November
2007, has pleaded not guilty.  U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston  selected a jury
yesterday. She told would-be jurors that if chosen they must
decide the case based only on the trial evidence though they may
have read about the charges against Bonds.  Attorneys for Bonds and federal prosecutors yesterday
agreed that 38 of about 100 potential jurors should be dismissed
based on their answers to a three-page questionnaire.  The trial was postponed for two years as federal
prosecutors appealed a judge’s ruling barring them from using as
evidence certain documents they say show that Bonds tested
positive for steroid use. They lost the appeal. Government
attorneys may call former  New York  Yankee Jason Giambi and other
baseball players to testify that they received steroids from
Bonds’s former trainer, according to court documents.  Bonds holds the Major League Baseball career record with
762 home runs and the single-season record with 73 home runs in
2001. He played 22 seasons in the major leagues, the first seven
with the Pittsburgh Pirates before moving to the San Francisco
Giants in 1993 as a free agent. He won a record seven National
League Most Valuable Player awards, including four straight from
2001 through 2004. He hasn’t played since the 2007 season.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Wisconsin Asks Appeals Court to Block Order on Labor Law  Wisconsin’s attorney general asked an appeals court to
block a state judge’s order that temporarily halted a law
curbing government employee unions’ collective-bargaining power.  State Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen  yesterday also asked
the Wisconsin Court of Appeals for permission to file an appeal
seeking to overturn the ruling by Circuit Court Judge Maryann
Sumi.  “Contrary to established case law, the trial court
injected itself into the legislative process and enjoined a
legislative act,” Van Hollen said in court papers filed
yesterday in Madison. “There is absolutely no authority for the
broad, overreaching step taken.”  Sumi on March 18 granted a temporary restraining order
blocking publication of the measure signed into law by Governor
Scott Walker on March 11, after a hearing in Madison, the
state’s capital city. Publication gives the law full force and
effect.  The legislation championed by Walker, a first-term
Republican, requires annual recertification votes for union
representation and makes voluntary the payment of union dues. It
exempts firefighters and police officers.  Organized labor and Democrats called the bill an attack on
workers. Opposition sparked almost four weeks of mass protests
at the Capitol.  The case is State of Wisconsin Ex Rel. Ozanne v.
Fitzgerald, 11cv1244, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison).  For more, click here.  Hilton Stock Purchase Lawful, Rajaratnam’s Lawyer Tells Jury  Raj Rajaratnam’s lawyers sought to use cross-examination of
a government witness to show Galleon Group LLC had legitimate
reasons to buy Hilton Hotels Corp. stock before its 2007 buyout
that didn’t involve inside information.  During defense questioning of Margaret Holloway, a senior
credit analyst at Moody’s Investors Service Inc., defense
attorney Michael Starr tried to show sophisticated traders knew
Hilton was a takeover target months before Rajaratnam was
allegedly tipped. Prosecutors claim Galleon, co-founded by
Rajaratnam, bought the shares because Deep Shah, a junior
analyst at Moody’s, leaked news July 2, 2007, a day before the
Blackstone Group LP’s takeover of the chain was made public.  Starr questioned Holloway about analyst reports and media
accounts speculating on the likelihood of a buyout beginning
four months earlier. He showed her documents filed with
regulators stating that New York-based Galleon increased its
holdings from 250,000 shares in the quarter ended March 31,
2007, to 475,000 three months later -- prior to the alleged tip.  “This is not a secret document, is it?” Starr asked
Holloway about an April 30, 2007, report by  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
saying that private equity investors were “swarming the lodging
space.” Holloway replied that it wasn’t.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips leaked
by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders. The Hilton tip was
passed from Shah to  Roomy Khan , a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive
and stock trader, who in turn told Rajaratnam, prosecutors said.  Khan has pleaded guilty in the case. Shah remains a
fugitive.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  Verdicts  Deutsche Bank Loses Case Over Swap Sales at German Top Court  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest bank, lost a ruling
over an interest-rate swap in the first case concerning sales of
the products to companies and local governments heard at the
country’s highest civil court.  The bank must pay  Ille Papier Service GmbH  541,074 euros
($770,000) plus interest over the swap purchase, Federal Court
of Justice Presiding Judge Ulrich Wiechers said in Karlsruhe,
Germany, today.  “As an adviser to its customer, the bank must guard the
customers’ interest alone,” Wiechers said.  “But as a seller
of the swap, a loss to the customer works to the banks’
advantage.”  The ruling will influence dozens of disputes Deutsche Bank
has with local German governments, community-owned utilities and
companies that claim the lender sold swaps without adequately
disclosing risks and fees. Cases over swap agreements have
spread throughout  Europe  with similar disputes in  Italy ,  France 
and  England .  Deutsche Bank lawyer Christian Duve said his client needs
to analyze the written ruling.  The “number of open disputes over these swaps is
limited,” he said. “And the bank has taken adequate risk
provisions for this.”  Deutsche Bank, which acted as Ille Paper’s adviser, had the
duty to disclose an initial negative market value of about
80,000 euros that covered the lenders profit and costs, because
it was a crucial indicator how chances and risks were structured
into the product, Wiechers said today.  The case is BGH, XI ZR 33/10.  For more, click here.  Ex-UBS Banker Poteroba Gets 22 Months for Insider Trading  Igor Poteroba, a former  UBS AG (UBS)  investment banker who
pleaded guilty to insider trading, was sentenced to 22 months in
prison.  U.S. District Judge Paul A. Crotty in Manhattan also
ordered Poteroba to pay a $25,000 fine and to serve three years
of supervised release after his prison term. In December,
Poteroba, 37, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud and three counts of securities fraud.  “This activity was done repeatedly, over an extended
period of time,” Crotty said before passing sentence.  Poteroba has agreed to forfeit the $465,000 in proceeds
from his insider trading. Crotty said he will probably be
deported to his native  Russia .  Poteroba, who worked in UBS Securities LLC’s Global
Healthcare Group in New York, was charged and arrested in March
2010 along with Alexei Koval, a Chicago man who allegedly traded
on the information. Poteroba was accused of leaking tips about
potential mergers and acquisitions involving six public
companies to Koval and a third, unidentified person.  The judge said Poteroba’s 22-month term includes the year
he already spent in a federal lockup since his arrest.
Poteroba’s lawyers argued that his time already served was an
appropriate term. Prosecutors urged Crotty to sentence him to as
long as 37 months.  “I made some very bad mistakes and made many bad
decisions,” Poteroba told Crotty.  Koval pleaded guilty in January. His sentencing is
scheduled for May 24.  The case is U.S. v. Poteroba, 10-mag-00562, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  AIG, Three Others Will Pay $27 Million in Antitrust Suit  American International Group Inc., the bailed-out insurer,
is one of four insurance companies that will pay a total of $27
million to resolve a lawsuit claiming they improperly sold
excess casualty policies.  AIG, Liberty Mutual Holding Co., Travelers Cos., Inc. and
 XL Group Plc (XL)  agreed to settle the case with buyers of insurance
policies sold from 1998 through 2004. Five other insurers agreed
to settle a related set of claims over non-excess casualty
policies.  “We are pleased to have reached an agreement to resolve
this matter,” said company spokesman Mark Herr in an e-mailed
statement. “Through this settlement, AIG brings an end to
another long-standing lawsuit about events from many years
ago.”  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , the largest Swiss insurer,
and Arthur J. Gallagher & Co., an insurance broker, previously
settled the case pending in federal court in Trenton, New
Jersey. Zurich, based in the Swiss city of the same name, agreed
to pay $121.8 million to clients and $30 million in attorneys’
fees. Gallagher, based in Itasca, Illinois, agreed to pay $28
million to clients and $8.9 million in attorneys’ fees.  The case was inspired by a 2004 regulatory probe by  Eliot
Spitzer , then the New York attorney general, of a conspiracy by
brokers and insurers to stifle competition.  The company used fake quotes to steer clients to favored
insurers in exchange for hidden fees, Spitzer said in his suit.
Marsh & McLennan Cos. settled with him in 2005 by agreeing to
pay $850 million to customers across the U.S. Some 70,000
clients, including more than 90 percent of the largest, accepted
the compensation.  The case is In Re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation,
04-5184, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  Fed Will Release Bank Loan Data as Top Court Rejects Appeal  The  Federal Reserve  will disclose details of emergency
loans it made to banks in 2008, after the U.S.  Supreme Court 
rejected an industry appeal that aimed to shield the records
from public view.  The justices yesterday left intact a court order that gives
the Fed five days to release the records, sought by Bloomberg
News’s parent company, Bloomberg LP. The Clearing House
Association LLC, a group of the nation’s largest commercial
banks, had asked the Supreme Court to intervene.  “The board will fully comply with the court’s decision and
is preparing to make the information available,” said  David
Skidmore , a spokesman for the Fed.  The order marks the first time a court has forced the Fed
to reveal the names of banks that borrowed from its oldest
lending program, the 98-year-old discount window. The
disclosures, together with details of six bailout programs
released by the central bank in December under a congressional
mandate, would give taxpayers insight into the Fed’s
unprecedented $3.5 trillion effort to stem the 2008 financial
panic.  “I can’t recall that the Fed was ever sued and forced to
release information” in its 98-year history, said Allan H.
Meltzer, the author of three books on the U.S. central bank and
a professor at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.  Under the trial judge’s order, the Fed must reveal 231
pages of documents related to borrowers in April and May 2008,
along with loan amounts.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox News is pressing a bid
for 6,186 pages of similar information on loans made from August
2007 to November 2008.  The records were originally requested under FOIA, which
allows citizens access to government papers, by the late
Bloomberg News reporter Mark Pittman.  The cases are Clearing House Association v. Bloomberg,
10-543, and Clearing House Association v. Fox News Network,
10-660.  For more, click here.  NAB Agrees to Settle A$309 Million Dispute Over Taxes  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the nation’s biggest lender
to companies, agreed to settle a A$309 million ($311 million)
dispute with the country’s tax office, saying it won a A$142
million reduction.  The agreement was reached as a four-week trial was
scheduled to begin in Sydney Federal Court March 20. The bank
didn’t admit liability and will get a refund from the tax
office, National  Australia  Bank said in a statement yesterday.  The lender claimed interest on capital instruments, known
as exchangeable capital units, or ExCaps, is tax-deductible. The
Australian Tax Office disagreed and issued six amended
assessments against the bank in December 2008 and May 2005,
seeking to recoup the deductions.  “This removes the need for potentially long and costly
legal proceedings,” National Australia Bank Chief Financial
Officer Mark Joiner said yesterday in a statement issued to the
Australian Stock Exchange.  The Australian Tax Office ruled the interest payments
weren’t tax deductible because the money was considered capital.  National Australia paid A$309 million and sued to recover
the money.  The case is National Australia Bank Ltd. V. Commissioner of
Taxation. NSD 1297/2009. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney)  Lawsuit News  Mets Say Madoff Trustee Made Charges to Force Settlement  The New York Mets owners said the trustee liquidating the
business of convicted fraudster Bernard L. Madoff concocted
allegations against them to force a settlement.  Irving Picard , seeking $1 billion in Ponzi scheme profits
and principal from the baseball team’s owner, Sterling Equities
Inc., sued in New York, accusing the team and the owners of
participating in Madoff’s fraud and ignoring “red flags.”  Asking a judge to dismiss Picard’s suit, the Sterling
partners said March 20 in court papers that they weren’t
professional investors and saw no warning signs. Fred Wilpon,
the Mets chairman, and Saul Katz, the ball club’s president,
described Picard’s accusations as a “work of fiction.”  Picard’s calculation that the Sterling partners and
companies made $300 million in false profit from the Ponzi
scheme ignored their Madoff accounts that had net losses,
Sterling said in a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in New York.
After losses, Sterling’s fake profit was about $150 million over
25 years, according to the filing.  “Let us be very clear: We did not know that Madoff was
engaged in a fraud,” Katz and Wilpon said March 20 in a
statement. “There were no red flags and we received no
warnings.”  The Mets said in January that they are seeking to sell as
much as 25 percent of the Major League Baseball team to raise
money to settle a Madoff-related lawsuit. Picard’s suit, filed
in December, was kept under seal until last month.  Picard revised the suit on March 18 to add a claim that
Sterling and Madoff disguised a $54 million loan from Madoff as
an investment by his wife,  Ruth Madoff , to help Sterling
purchase the Mets’ broadcast rights from Cablevision Systems
Corp. in 2004.  The amended complaint showed the “deep dependency” of
Sterling businesses on the Madoff fraud “and certain knowledge
of indicia of fraud” by the Sterling partners,  David Sheehan ,
Picard’s lawyer, said in a statement.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 10:05287, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  NFL Owners Say Court Lacks Right to Bar Lockout of Players  National Football League owners voiced opposition to a bid
by 10 NFL players for an order blocking a lockout during
collective bargaining, saying the federal court lacks
jurisdiction over the dispute.  Only the National Labor Relations Board has the authority
to resolve the fight, the 32-team league said yesterday in
papers submitted to U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in
St. Paul, Minnesota.  “The jurisdictional bar applies as long as this case
‘involves or grows out of’ a labor dispute, a test that is
clearly satisfied here,” according the owners argued.  Quarterbacks Tom Brady, Peyton Manning and Drew Brees led
the group that sued the league on March 11 after negotiations to
craft a new contract collapsed and the National Football League
Players Association said it no longer would function as a union.
League policies violate U.S. antitrust laws, the players said.  Owners declared a lockout hours later, shutting down the
most-watched and wealthiest U.S. sport at midnight.  During the lockout, players won’t be paid, and teams can’t
practice, sign new players or make trades. The NFL draft of
college players is still scheduled to begin April 28.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-639, U.S. District Court,
District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  Law Firm News  Bernstein Litowitz Tops 2010 Class-Action Settlements List  Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann LLP recovered more
money in class-action settlements of investor lawsuits in 2010
than any other law firm, according to a study that found 17
firms recouped more than $100 million each.  Bernstein Litowitz represented the lead or co-lead
plaintiff in 16 lawsuits that settled last year totaling about
$1 billion, according to the study released yesterday by
RiskMetrics Group’s Institutional Shareholder Services unit,
which tracks shareholder complaints.  San Diego-based Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd, which topped
the 2009 list, fell to second with $740.8 million followed by
Labaton Sucharow in New York in third place with $576.4 million.
Hargrove Pierson & Brown in Boca Raton, Florida, and Marcus &
Auerbach in Jenkintown, Pennsylvania, round out the top five
with $549.3 million each, according to the study. Robbins
Geller, which represents investors in suits filed against
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , was also the most-
active firm by number of settlements with 31 deals.  Cunningham Bounds, based in Mobile, Alabama, also posted
the highest average settlement amount among the top 50 law firms
ranked in the study, averaging $83.5 million in its three cases.
The firm served as co-lead counsel for bondholders in
settlements with  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  HealthSouth Corp. (HLS)  and Ernst & Young LLP
over the health-care services provider’s demise.  New York-based RiskMetrics is a unit of  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , which
develops investment indexes and analytics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  