-- 
Area Property Buys 30% Stake in U.K. Real-Estate Fund From BT Pension Plan

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-03-22T07:54:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/area-agrees-to-buy-hermes-s-stake-in-most-profitable-u-k-real-estate-fund.html
Area Property Partners LP, the
asset manager founded by William Mack, bought 30 percent of X-
Leisure, the best-performing U.K. real estate fund last year and
the owner of buildings worth 528 million pounds ($861 million).  The holding in Jersey-registered X-Leisure was purchased
for 65 million pounds from Britain’s largest pension fund, BT
Pension Scheme, according to  Hermes Fund Managers Ltd. , which
manages BTPS. Hermes created X-Leisure in 2004 with  Capital &
Regional Plc (CAL) , which owns an 11.9 percent stake in the fund.  “It’s not a sector that we wanted to hold any longer,”
Chris Taylor, head of real estate at Hermes, said in an
interview yesterday at the asset manager’s office in London.
Area, based in  New York , declined to comment.  X-Leisure  owns the marina at Brighton and 18 other
properties across the U.K. accommodating facilities such as
indoor ski slopes, gymnasiums, bowling alleys, movie theaters,
shops, bars and restaurants. A venture of Hermes and Capital &
Regional manages the fund’s properties under a team led by
Pierre-Yves Gerbeau, former head of the U.K.’s Millennium Dome.  The fund returned almost 46 percent in 2010 as property
values increased for the first time in three years, beating 58
other U.K. real estate funds, according to  Investment Property
Databank Ltd.  A slide in values caused X-Leisure to lose 49
percent in 2009 and 50 percent in 2008, IPD data show.  New Shareholder  Hermes and Capital & Regional raised 50 million pounds in
the third quarter of 2009 to recapitalize X-Leisure and
negotiated new loan terms with the fund’s banks.  Taylor said the sale of the X-Leisure stake is part of his
strategy to reduce his company’s investments in closed-end funds
and to have greater control over BTPS’s 4 billion pounds of real
estate.  Taylor joined Hermes in November last year and plans to
diversify Hermes’s property investments outside the U.K. and
reduce debt. Aside from running BTPS, Hermes Real Estate manages
another 1 billion pounds of real estate through the Hermes
Property Unit Trust for charities and pension funds, a logistics
fund and as owner of U.K. developers MEPC and Argent.  Hermes Fund Managers, the parent, is owned by BT Pension
Scheme and oversees 25.6 billion pounds of assets, according to
its  website.   Junction Fund  The holding in X-Leisure was acquired by  Area European Real
Estate Fund III  and was at least Area Property’s third
transaction involving a fund linked to Capital & Regional. Two
years ago, Area paid 50 million pounds for a stake in the
Junction Fund, which is managed by Capital & Regional and owns
U.K. retail parks, in a fundraising in which it acquired units
at a discount of about 40 percent.  Area and Capital & Regional also have a  venture that owns
48 retail properties in Germany  valued at 580 million euros as
of the end of June 2010.  National Australia Bank Ltd. acquired a 35 percent stake in
Area earlier this month for an undisclosed sum. Mack, Area’s
chairman, and Lee Neibart, chief executive officer, will remain
in charge of all investment decisions, the real estate fund
manager said in a statement at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 