-- 
Irish, Portuguese Bonds Sink on Debt Concern; Stocks Retreat

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 
2011-03-22T20:27:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/asia-stocks-rise-japan-bonds-fall-on-nuclear-progress-oil-gains-on-libya.html
Irish notes slid, leading bonds of
 Europe ’s most indebted nations lower, and the euro fell on
concern the region’s leaders are struggling to fix the
government-finance crisis. Oil rallied, while U.S. and European
stocks retreated following a rebound in Japanese shares.  Irish 2-year note yields surged 62 basis points to 9.87
percent and rose as high as 10.18 percent, the most since
Bloomberg began collecting the data in 2003. Yields on similar-
maturity Portuguese and Greek debt climbed at least 26 basis
points. The euro weakened versus 12 of 16 major peers. Oil rose
1.6 percent at $104 a barrel as unrest spread in the Middle East
and northern Africa. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.4
percent at 4 p.m. and the Stoxx Europe 600 lost 0.2 percent.  The slump in Irish notes came after EU finance chiefs
settled yesterday on how to enable a permanent rescue fund to
lend 500 billion euros ($712 billion) as of 2013, while
remaining divided over how to get the current stopgap fund to
its full capacity. The  Portuguese government  forecast that the
economy will contract this year as investment declines and it
cuts spending to narrow the  budget deficit .  “The problems in the periphery have not lessened,”  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York, said in a note to clients. “ The
real immediate focus is on Portugal. The government’s new
austerity measures will be debated tomorrow.”  Portugal Austerity  Ten-year Portuguese yields jumped 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 7.49 percent after retreating for two
straight days. The spread above benchmark German bund yields
widened 10 basis points to 4.24 percentage points. Portugal’s
government may collapse tomorrow as the country’s parliament
votes on a plan for fiscal austerity measures, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. economist Nicola Mai said in a note e-mailed to investors.  Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  has been attempting to find a
compromise with the opposition, “but the opposition does not
seem to buy into this,” Mai said in the note.  Credit-default swaps insuring Irish government debt surged
31 basis points to 618 as of 4:20 p.m. in  London , the highest
since Jan. 27, while contracts on Greece rose 23 basis points to
973 and those on Portugal climbed 42.5 basis points to 540,
according to CMA.  The yield on the Irish 10-year note surged 23 basis points
to 9.83 percent, the highest since 1993.  Ireland’s top financial regulator, Matthew Elderfield, said
the country’s bailout program is capable of handling any
outcomes from next month’s stress tests on banks. Allied Irish
Banks Plc, a government-controlled lender, responded to market
speculation by saying it has “no plans” to miss interest
payments on its bonds.  Allied Irish Responds  “AIB has not missed a coupon payment and will pay a due
coupon tomorrow,” said  Catherine Burke , a spokeswoman for the
lender. “We have no plans not to make future payments.”  Europe’s efforts to tackle its sovereign debt crisis aren’t
persuading money managers to buy bonds from the region’s most
indebted nations. Work toward a solution to the region’s credit
woes is scheduled to culminate at a March 24-25 summit of
European leaders.  The  S&P 500  retreated after rallying 3.3 percent over the
previous three sessions, its biggest gain of the year for equal
time spans, as concern eased that damage stemming from  Japan ’s
worst earthquake on record will threaten the global economy.  Walgreen, Carnival  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S. drugstore chain, dropped 6.6
percent to lead losses in the S&P 500 today after profit margin
fell short of analyst estimates. Carnival Corp., the world’s
biggest cruise-line operator, fell 4.5 percent after forecasting
profit that missed analyst projections. Sprint Nextel Corp.
rallied 2.5 percent as Raymond James & Associates raised its
rating to “strong buy,” while Netflix Inc. gained 4 percent as
Credit Suisse Group AG lifted its rating.  U.S. stocks will probably rise back to their 2011 peak from
February after the S&P 500 lost as much as 6.4 percent following
Japan’s earthquake, according to hedge fund manager  Barton
Biggs .  “We certainly had a number of black swan crises back to
back, and that’s always very disconcerting,” Biggs, who helps
oversee $1.4 billion as managing partner of Traxis Partners LP,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart
with  Carol Massar  and Matt Miller.” “There’s still a couple
black swans flapping around out there, but unless you come up
with a dire scenario I think we’ll extend the rally.”  Rare, high-impact events in markets received the label in
the 2007 bestselling book, “The Black Swan,” by  New York 
University professor Nassim Taleb. It refers to the belief that
only white swans existed until black ones were discovered in
Australia in 1697.  European Stocks  Auto and industrial companies led losses among 13 of 19
groups in the Stoxx 600, which fell for the first time in four
days. Daimler AG retreated 0.8 percent in  Frankfurt , while
Siemens AG lost 1.9 percent.  The euro slumped the most against the New Zealand dollar
and South African rand, dropping at least 0.8 percent versus
each. Europe’s common currency fell 0.6 percent against the
British pound. The U.K. currency rallied against 13 of 16 peers
after inflation accelerated more than economists forecast in
February to double the Bank of England’s target, increasing
pressure on policy makers to raise  interest rates .  Kiwi Rallies  New Zealand’s dollar strengthened against 15 of 16 major
peers, jumping 0.7 percent against its U.S. counterpart and 0.6
percent versus the yen, after the  International Monetary Fund 
said the nation’s central bank may need to raise interest rates
“relatively quickly.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rebounded 4.4 percent in  Tokyo 
after being closed yesterday, paring its post-earthquake loss to
7.9 percent. Tokyo Electric Power Co. rose by its daily limit in
Tokyo, extending a two-day gain to 38 percent. The cost of
credit-default swaps protecting Japan’s government debt fell
below 100 basis points for the first time in a week, according
to CMA.  “Investors are a bit relieved regarding Japan,” said
Bruno Ducros, a Paris-based fund manager at CamGestion, which
oversees about $4.3 billion in stocks.  The MSCI Emerging-Markets Index rose for a third day,
gaining 0.8 percent. India’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex, jumped
0.8 percent and benchmark indexes in  South Korea  and Taiwan
advanced by 0.5 percent.  Oil’s Gain  Oil’s advance came amid speculation Japanese rebuilding
efforts will bolster fuel consumption and as unrest spread in
the Middle East and northern  Africa . Japan considered setting up
a reconstruction agency to oversee repairs from the March 11
earthquake and data showed the central bank pumped record
liquidity into lenders. Oil has risen 14 percent this year as
turmoil that drove longtime rulers from power in Tunisia and
Egypt spread to Libya, Yemen, Bahrain and Syria.  U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said the intensity of
the military campaign in Libya will ease soon after allied
forces imposed a no-fly zone on Muammar Qaddafi’s regime.
Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh warned defecting generals
that they risk dragging the country into a “bloody civil war,”
and signaled he’s ready to quit this year if the uprising eases
and elections are held.  Cotton for May delivery rose 7 cents, the exchange limit,
to $2.0596 a pound. Cocoa and natural gas also climbed more than
2.2 percent to help lead gauges of commodities higher, while
nickel and coffee fell more than 1 percent for the biggest
declines among materials in the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
commodities index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at   mregan12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at   chrisnagi@bloomberg.net . 