-- 
Asian Stocks Gain as Japan Makes Progress on Nuclear Crisis; Honda Rises

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-22T10:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/asian-stocks-gain-as-japan-makes-progress-on-nuclear-crisis-honda-rises.html
Asian stocks rose for a third day,
led by Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average, which had its biggest
two-day advance since April 2009 as the country made progress in
stabilizing reactors at a crippled nuclear plant.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, rose 4
percent in  Tokyo . Tokyo Electric Power Co., the operator of the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant which was damaged by the 9.0-
magnitude earthquake on March 11, soared 16 percent.  Extract
Resources Ltd. (EXT) , a uranium producer, advanced 1.3 percent in
Sydney after Japan’s Prime Minister said there was “light at
the end of the tunnel” for the country’s nuclear crisis. Cathay
Pacific Airways Ltd. climbed 3.1 in  Hong Kong  as international
travel prospects improved.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 2.2 percent to 132.98 as
of 7:49 p.m. in Tokyo. More than three times as many stocks rose
as fell on the index and all 10 industry groups climbed. The
gauge is now 2.3 percent lower than its closing level on the day
before the earthquake struck. The index closed 8.2 percent below
that level on March 15.  “The feared nuclear meltdown in  Japan  hasn’t happened and
looks less and less like it will,” said  Shane Oliver , head of
investment strategy in Sydney at AMP Capital Investors Ltd,
which manages $98 billion. “Investors are feeling less negative
and so shares are having a bounce. It could prove temporary,
though, if Middle-East tensions lead to a further spike in the
oil price.”  Libya Fighting  The Asia-Pacific gauge last week recorded its biggest
weekly drop since the height of the European debt crisis in May,
as Japan fought to prevent an atomic disaster at a nuclear plant
north of Tokyo after the earthquake, and as tensions escalated
in Libya.  Allied forces are expanding their air campaign over  Libya 
in an effort to thwart Muammar Qaddafi’s fighters and enable
rebels to control cities, such as the opposition capital of
Benghazi, that had been under attack by troops loyal to the
regime.  Oil rose for a second day in  New York  as Allied airstrikes
in Libya threatened to prolong a supply disruption from  Africa ’s
third-largest crude producer and as protests intensified in
 Yemen .  Oil futures climbed as much as 0.3 percent as thousands
spent the night on streets in Yemen to maintain pressure on
President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who is facing a growing internal
revolt. Airstrikes on Libya and the threat of contagion in the
Middle East raises a risk of higher  oil prices , Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said.  Nuclear Calm  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 4.4 percent today,
having plunged 10 percent last week on concern the effects of
the earthquake and devastated reactors will hurt a recovery in
the world’s third-largest economy. Japanese markets were closed
yesterday for a public holiday.  “The nuclear issue has calmed,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi ,
a strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co. “People
focused on low valuations will probably buy stocks.”  South Korea ’s Kospi Index added 0.5 percent, while
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index was little changed. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index advanced 0.8 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 5.5 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 3.2 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 1.3 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at 13.1 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.4 times for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 11 times for the Stoxx 600.  ‘Fear Premium’  Futures on the S&P 500 were little changed today. The U.S.
gauge climbed 1.5 percent yesterday as concern eased that Japan
will suffer a nuclear meltdown and after AT&T Inc. agreed to buy
T-Mobile USA for $39 billion.  Toyota surged 4 percent to 3,345 yen in Tokyo. Honda Motor
Co., Japan’s third-largest carmaker, rose 2.1 percent to 3,145
yen, and Fanuc Corp., an industrial-robot manufacturer, climbed
5.7 percent to 12,150 yen. Fujitsu Ltd., Japan’s biggest
computer-services provider, leapt 11 percent to 501 yen. Sony
Corp., an electronics maker, climbed 3.2 percent to 2,600 yen.  “The fear premium is declining sharply,” said James Holt,
Sydney-based director of BlackRock Investment Management
(Australia) Ltd., which oversees about $40 billion in assets.
“A very cheap market got even cheaper last week and investors
are starting to focus on this as their overarching nuclear
worries recede. The earthquake is a tragedy, but going forward
it’s about the cleanup and getting factories back up and
running.”  Radioactive Release  Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan said yesterday he could
see “light at the end of the tunnel,” even as smoke at two
reactors hampered efforts to restore cooling systems at the
troubled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, which was damaged
following an earthquake and tsunami on March 11.  Tokyo Electric  Power, which operates the plant, said
yesterday it connected a power cable from reactor 3 to 4. Kan
said progress was being made restoring power to units 1 and 2.
Tokyo Electric’s shares soared 16 percent to 1,098 yen.  Separately, Tokyo Electric said fuel rods at the Fukushima
plant have been damaged, releasing five kinds of radioactive
material and contaminating seawater nearby. That indicates
poisons emanating from the plant may be spreading through the
air and sea, raising concern over the safety of seafood from the
coast of northeastern Japan and agriculture in the region.  Buffett Holds  “Risk trades seem to be returning as the situation in
Japan seems to be stabilizing and markets seem pretty relaxed
about the situation in Libya,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-
based head of investment markets research at Colonial First
State Global Asset Management, which oversees about $150 billon.
“But there are still plenty of risks out there.”  Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  said the record
earthquake is a buying opportunity and he won’t sell his shares
in Japan.  Buffett canceled a trip this week to Japan to visit a
factory owned by Iscar Metalworking Cos.’s Tungaloy Corp. in
Fukushima prefecture, site of the worst nuclear accident in 25
years. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. owns 80 percent of
Iscar, a maker of cutting tools.  Extract advanced for a third day, rising 1.3 percent to
A$8.11 in Sydney. In Hong Kong, Cathay Pacific climbed 3.1
percent to HK$18.24, while in Sydney,  Flight Centre Ltd. (FLT) ,
Australia’s largest travel agency, advanced 2.2 percent to
A$21.14.  In  Seoul , Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. gained 3.7 percent
to 496,500 won. The world’s largest shipyard said it received an
order from BP Plc to build an offshore platform worth about $600
million. The structure, which will be completed by the end of
2014, will be used to drill and produce oil and gas at the Clair
Ridge Field off Scotland’s Shetland Isles.  Samsung Heavy Industries Co. climbed 3.4 percent to 40,900
won after the Korea Economic Daily reported the company is in
talks with a Hong Kong customer for an $800 million order to
build six container ships, citing a company official it didn’t
identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 