-- 
AT&T Paying Twice Valuation for Customer-Losing Firm at 29 Times: Real M&A

-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-22T11:23:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/at-t-paying-twice-valuation-for-customer-losing-firm-real-m-a.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  is so determined to
surpass Verizon Wireless that it’s willing to pay double its own
valuation for the only U.S. wireless operator losing customers.  AT&T agreed to buy T-Mobile USA on March 20 for $39 billion
in cash and stock and create the largest U.S. mobile-phone
company, valuing  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s unit at 28.8 times
earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. AT&T, which
fell 31 percent even after it began exclusively carrying Apple
Inc.’s iPhone in June 2007, now trades at 13 times profit, while
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  commands a multiple of 16.3. T-
Mobile’s valuation was also higher than any cellular phone
company outside Hong Kong and  China , the data show.  Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson, 50, is betting
that adding  T-Mobile USA ’s 34 million customers and wireless
spectrum will boost sales and reduce dropped calls after losing
exclusive rights to the iPhone. The Dallas-based company is
spending what Deutsche Telekom’s finance chief called an
“enormous” price that avoids taking on T-Mobile USA’s $15.9
billion of debt and may ward off other suitors. The deal still
faces regulatory hurdles and a $3 billion breakup fee if it falls
apart.  “Is T-Mobile that much more valuable? I doubt it,” said
 Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1 billion as chief investment
officer at Stewart Capital in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania . “It’s a
struggling company. If AT&T has to sell big chunks of the thing
to make it work, it doesn’t make sense. If they can’t complete
the deal, they’ve got to turn over $3 billion.”  High-Speed Wireless  Shares of AT&T rose 1.2 percent to $28.26 yesterday after
announcing the deal that will help expand the rollout of its
high-speed wireless technology. Deutsche Telekom jumped 11
percent to 10.67 euros yesterday after it sold the unit for more
than analysts projected. The Bonn-based company advanced 0.6
percent to 10.73 euros today.  AT&T and T-Mobile USA combined would control 39 percent of
the U.S. mobile-phone market, surpassing  Verizon Wireless , which
has 31 percent, according to data compiled by research firms
EMarketer and ComScore Inc.  The transaction will give AT&T new airwaves for its planned
high-speed, fourth-generation network that will cover 95 percent
of the U.S., John Stankey, president of AT&T Business Solutions,
said on a conference call yesterday. AT&T and T-Mobile in the
U.S. both use the GSM standard to deliver mobile phone and data
service, making the integration easier, he said. The combined
company will also be able to cut costs in retail, advertising
and overhead.  ‘Liking the Deal’  “The market seems to be liking the deal,” said E. William Stone, who oversees about $105 billion as chief investment
strategist in Philadelphia for PNC Wealth Management, which owns
shares of AT&T. The company believes they can “take a lot of
costs out of it,” he said.  AT&T will be able to increase average revenue per user by
selling more data-heavy smartphones to T-Mobile USA customers
and reduce T-Mobile USA’s cancellation rate with a bigger lineup
of phones, improved network performance and access to Wi-Fi
hotspots, Ralph de la Vega, CEO of AT&T’s mobility and consumer
markets, said on the conference call.  Last year, AT&T said it had a so-called churn, or
cancellation, rate of 1.3 percent compared with T-Mobile USA’s
3.4 percent. AT&T drew an average of $62.57 from each customer,
while T-Mobile USA got $52, according to AT&T’s slide
presentation yesterday.  ‘Really Look’  AT&T was the only U.S. carrier selling the iPhone until
Verizon Wireless got the device this year. The smartphone, which
downloads music, videos and accesses the Internet, clogged
AT&T’s network in markets such as  New York  and  San Francisco ,
causing dropped calls and hurting customer satisfaction ratings.
AT&T needs acquisitions to boost profit that it could then
invest in its network and service, said Bill Kavaler, a special
situations analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in New York.  “You can’t really look at it in terms of being cheap or
expensive,” Kavaler said. “You have to look at it in terms of
competitive position. Now that Verizon has Apple’s products,
AT&T’s biggest problem, which was their coverage and their
quality of service, perceived to be inferior to Verizon, is now
an issue.”  While AT&T won more customers since it started selling the
iPhone, its shareholders haven’t reaped the benefits. Since the
phone’s debut in June 2007 -- the same month Stephenson became
AT&T’s CEO -- the company’s shares declined 31 percent through
last week. Over the same span, New York-based Verizon dropped
6.2 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Ends Any Debate’  Including dividends, AT&T dropped 16 percent, versus a 15
percent return for Verizon. Only two integrated telephone
companies with market values of more than $10 billion lost more
 shareholder value  in that period than AT&T, the data show.  AT&T, the second-biggest U.S. wireless provider, beat out
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  by agreeing to pay $25 billion in cash and
offering a higher-than-average breakup fee, said three people
with knowledge of the matter.  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint
and Deutsche Telekom had held on and off discussions about a
lower priced deal for T-Mobile USA, according to the people, who
declined to be identified because the negotiations were private.  “That ends any debate about it as far as somebody else
coming in and making an offer,”  Peter Sorrentino , who helps
oversee $14.4 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in
Cincinnati, said of the price AT&T is paying for T-Mobile. “It
ends all debate.” Huntington owns AT&T shares.  In T-Mobile USA, AT&T is getting a business that reported
profit declines in four of the past five years as it trailed
U.S. rivals in building out a third-generation mobile network
and missed out on sales of the iPhone. About 56,000 customers
abandoned T-Mobile last year, while Verizon Wireless, AT&T and
Sprint all boosted their subscriber counts.  ‘Enormous Price’  AT&T agreed to pay a breakup fee of $3 billion, or almost 8
percent of the total purchase price, which is more than twice
the typical fee. The company also will give Deutsche Telekom
some spectrum if the deal falls through.  Deutsche Telekom’s Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges said the deal topped analysts’ estimates for T-Mobile
to fetch 16 billion euros ($22.7 billion) to 19 billion euros in
an acquisition.  “With this enormous price, we’ll be able to more
consistently improve, change and renew our strategy,” he said
on a conference call with reporters yesterday.  Completing the acquisition may still take a year, the
companies said. Regulators may force AT&T to build out more
rural networks or provide data roaming to rural carriers, said
 Roger Entner , an analyst at Recon Analytics LLC. AT&T expects
regulators will require it to divest wireless spectrum and
subscribers, said a person with knowledge of the situation.  Relative Value  The $39 billion price tag is 28.8 times T-Mobile USA’s net
income of $1.35 billion last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. T-Mobile USA’s earnings slipped 7.9 percent in 2010
as sales declined for a second straight year.  The valuation was 121 percent higher than AT&T’s price-
earnings ratio, 77 percent greater than Verizon and 5.3 percent
pricier than Deutsche Telekom, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
It’s also more than twice the median valuation of 11.9 times
profit as of last week for 32 global cellular phone companies
with market capitalizations of more than $1 billion, excluding
those in  Hong Kong  or China.  With AT&T reaching agreement without assuming T-Mobile
USA’s debt, the takeover appears cheaper on other metrics.  The purchase price represented a multiple of 7.1 times 2010
T-Mobile USA’s adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, Deutsche Telekom said. That’s
lower than the median Ebitda multiple of 9.3 for global
telecommunications takeovers of more than $1 billion in the past
five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Capital Expenses  AT&T isn’t taking on T-Mobile USA’s debt that totaled $15.9
billion at the end of 2010 and will issue about $14 billion of
shares to Deutsche Telekom, subject to adjustment.  The U.S. carrier said it will borrow money to help finance
the cash portion of the purchase. AT&T has an 18-month
commitment for a $20 billion unsecured bridge loan from New
York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co.  AT&T is currently rated B3H, the third-lowest investment-
grade rating, according to Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings,
which analyze borrowers based on indebtedness, market value,
profitability and other financial ratios. The carrier would
maintain its rating even after increasing its long-term
borrowings by $25 billion, Bloomberg’s ratings show.  ‘Track Record’  Cost savings and revenue gains may total $3 billion
annually within three years, AT&T said. Based on expected so-
called synergies of $40 billion, which are plausible, AT&T
“believes it can acquire the asset for free,” according to a
report from  Craig Moffett , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. in New York.  AT&T agreed to buy BellSouth Corp. in 2006 for more than
$80 billion in its largest acquisition, giving it full ownership
of Cingular Wireless, the biggest U.S. mobile-phone operator at
the time. At least $250 billion in deals in two decades has left
the company’s market value at $167 billion, Bloomberg data show.  “The track record in general for deals of this size in any
industry is not great,” said  Walter Todd , who helps manage $950
million at Greenwood Capital Associates in Greenwood,  South
Carolina . “AT&T felt they needed to do this to try to compete
with Verizon. They don’t have a choice.”  Overall, there have been 5,086 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $526.4 billion, a 22 percent increase from
the $430.3 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Rabil in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 