-- 
Latvia Wins Appeal of C02-Emission Curbs at European Court

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-03-22T11:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/latvia-wins-challenge-to-co2-emission-curbs-at-european-court.html
Latvia  won a court case challenging
European Union limits on carbon-dioxide emissions by energy and
manufacturing companies that are stricter than levels sought by
the country.  The  EU General Court , the 27-nation region’s second-highest
court, today overturned a 2007 decision by the European
Commission because the regulator missed a three-month deadline
to respond to Latvia’s plan. The commission’s request for
information, three months and one day after Latvia’s submission,
“was out of time” and the national allocation plan became
effective on March 30, 2007, the court said.  Latvia  challenged  the decision by the commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm, to cut the average annual limit for carbon-
dioxide emissions in the Baltic country to 3.43 million metric
tons in the 2008-2012 trading period from the 6.25 million tons
proposed by the government.  The Luxembourg-based court in September 2009 ruled in favor
of similar appeals by  Poland  and  Estonia  in the first of a
series of challenges to commission decisions on national
emissions plans. The court in that case said the commission has
“very restricted” authority to review national plans for
allocating CO2 permits in the EU emissions-trading system, the
world’s biggest greenhouse-gas market.  Poland, Estonia  The EU regulator sought to uphold its decisions to award 73
percent of the carbon-dioxide allowances demanded by Poland and
52 percent of those Estonia requested for the five years through
2012 and said any revisions to the cap would have to take into
account economic developments and may turn out even smaller than
approved in 2007.  The Brussels-based commission said it “will analyze the
judgment in detail.” The commission can appeal to the EU Court
of Justice.  “The commission will also analyze any implications on the
third trading period (2013-2020) and take all possible action in
order to protect the integrity of the European-wide market,”
Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for the EU, said in the
statement.  Poland dropped demands last year for a higher cap after the
recession reduced industrial discharges. While the commission is
still waiting for the court decision on its appeal, Poland
agreed that its annual limit of 208.5 million tons should remain
unchanged.  Latvia said in its 2007 challenge that the commission
decision to allow it fewer emission permits than requested
“significantly restricted” the country’s sovereign energy
rights and was discriminatory against countries with low
emissions.  The case is T-369/07, Latvia v. European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  