-- 
Australian Senator Seeks Parliamentary Probe Into Merits of ASX-SGX Merger

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-22T02:14:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/australian-senator-seeks-inquiry-into-asx-sgx-merger.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s proposed
takeover of  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , operator of  Australia ’s main bourse, faces
a new hurdle for approval after a senator in Canberra proposed
today that the bid to be subjected to a parliamentary inquiry.  South Australian independent Senator Nick Xenophon’s motion
for the Economics References Committee to examine the bid is due
to be debated by the upper house Senate today, according to an
order of business published on the national parliament’s  website .  An inquiry would further delay the bid, submitted to
Australia’s  Foreign Investment Review Board  on March 11, to
create what the companies say will be the world’s fifth-largest
listed exchange operator. It faces opposition from several
Australian lawmakers who oppose Australian capital markets being
run from  Singapore .  “Hundreds of high level commerce jobs would disappear to
Singapore if this takeover is approved,” opposition Nationals
party Senator Barnaby Joyce said in a Canberra interview today
as he joined in opposition to the bid. “This is not being
parochial, it is a matter of survival for Australia’s commercial
center of Sydney.”  The government is just going through the motions and will
not approve the takeover even if the  Foreign Investment Review
Board  says it can go ahead, according to a person with knowledge
of the issue, who spoke to Bloomberg yesterday on the condition
of anonymity because Singapore Exchange’s bid for ASX is still
being reviewed by regulators.  ‘Crazy to Approve’  Singapore Exchange , which runs the city’s securities and
derivatives market, offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 in a cash and
share deal then valued at A$8.4 billion ($8.44 billion), a 42
percent premium to ASX’s share price, and worth A$7.5 billion at
yesterday’s close of trading in Australia.  “We would be crazy to approve this,” Joyce said. “We
would just see jobs disappear and any idea of Australia being a
financial hub of  Asia  would go with it.”  The bid, which won approval from Australia’s competition
regulator on Dec. 15, still requires the support of Treasurer
 Wayne Swan , the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, FIRB, the  Australian
Securities & Investments Commission  and parliamentarians,
several of whom have opposed the sale.  The minority Labor government led by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  needs the support of four independent or Greens
lawmakers to pass changes to the Corporations Act that are
needed to allow the bid to proceed.  “The final decision maker here is the treasurer,” Swan
told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio yesterday. “I will
take my decision based on the evidence before me, based not only
on the recommendations of the Foreign Investment Review Board,
but a thorough consideration of all these issues in good time.”  The Singapore bourse offered on Feb. 15 to give more board
seats to Australians as a way of overcoming political opposition
to the takeover on national-interest grounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 