-- 
Bail-In Losses Leave Denmark Battling Isolation

-- B y   T a s n e e m   B r o g g e r   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-03-22T08:30:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/bail-in-losses-leave-denmark-battling-isolation-correct-.html
Denmark  is trying to persuade the
rest of Europe to match rules exposing bondholders to losses
after the failure of a regional bank last month left lenders in
the Nordic country risking higher funding costs.  The collapse of Amagerbanken A/S on Feb. 6 forced a 41
percent loss on unsecured senior bonds and prompted Moody’s
Investors Service 10 days later to cut ratings on five Danish
lenders, including Denmark’s biggest, Danske Bank A/S, as it
factored out state protection. The insolvency was the first to
test rules Denmark put in place in October and set a European
Union precedent for senior creditor losses amid a region-wide
debate on burden sharing.  “The EU ought to think very seriously about this,” said
Thomas Broeng Joergensen, acting director of international
financial affairs at the Copenhagen-based  Financial Supervisory
Authority , in a March 20 e-mail. “A level playing field in
Europe is crucial for ensuring an effective, transparent single
market.”  Denmark is arguing the financial crisis hasn’t adequately
stemmed risk-taking amongst bond investors and wants the EU to
enforce the “possibility of debt writedowns” to discipline
markets, according to a March 4 letter sent to the European
Commission. EU financial services chiefMichel Barnier in
January said bank regulators should be able to write down
lenders’ senior debt, though a final agreement has yet to be
reached.  Irish Guarantee  European leaders are trying to put in place measures to
protect taxpayers from having to rescue failing banks after
Ireland guaranteed six lenders in 2008. The government in
November was forced to seek an 85 billion-euro ($121 billion)
rescue loan, more than a third of which is earmarked for
recapitalizing the banks.  A permanent European crisis-handling mechanism due to come
into force in 2013 will include provisions for bondholder losses
on a case-by-case basis in line with International Monetary Fund
practices.  European finance ministers yesterday settled on how to
enable a permanent rescue fund to lend 500 billion euros ($710
billion) as of 2013, while remaining divided over how to get the
current stopgap fund up to its full capacity of 440 billion
euros.  The failure of Amagerbanken, which was Denmark’s fifth-
largest listed bank, will trigger a wave of consolidation as
small banks struggling to raise funds get absorbed by bigger
rivals, said Ulrik Noedgaard, FSA director, in a March 4
interview.  Toughest Rules  The Nordic country opted for  Europe ’s toughest bank rescue
mechanism even though it was clear “that one of the
consequences of Denmark no longer securing all debt holders
could be that financing costs would rise,” he said.  “It’s important that one has this sort of rule across
borders,” Danish central bank GovernorNils Bernstein said in a
March 16 interview. “Bail-in is something to be viewed as a
general construction.”  The lenders also have the choice of going through a
standard bankruptcy process, whereby senior creditors are given
priority as liquidation proceeds are doled out.  While Denmark doesn’t want the state to bail out unsecured
senior creditors, it’s lobbying to ensure that its covered bonds
-- securities backed by pools of  mortgage loans  -- are excluded
from bail-in rules because the top-rated debt offers lenders the
best protection against losses.  Covered Bonds  “Our comments are currently being discussed by the
European Commission,” said Broeng Joergensen. “We don’t expect
any outcome on what the combined stance will be until after the
summer.”  Denmark, home to the world’s third-largest mortgage-backed
bond market after the U.S. and  Germany , is trying to persuade
the EU that the debt deserves a higher liquidity grade than the
Basel Committee for Banking Supervision agreed on in December.  The covered-bond market may also become more liquid as
investors spooked by the threat of losses on other debt classes
turn to bonds backed by collateral, according to Fitch Ratings
Ltd.  “The growing use of covered bond funding by banks is a
trend set to continue,” Fitch analysts Helene M. Heberlein,
Bridget Gandy and Jan Seemann said in a March 10 note. Issuers
are also adding surplus collateral to the pool backing the bonds
to attract investors, leaving less behind to cover other debt
classes, Fitch said.  “There must be no doubt that holders of covered bonds and
junior covered bonds always will receive timely payment,”
Denmark’s government said in the March 4 letter. “It should
therefore be made clear that covered bonds and junior covered
bonds should not be subject to debt write downs.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  