-- 
Bank Leumi Wins $19 Million U.K. Ruling Over Wachner Trades

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-22T18:09:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/bank-leumi-wins-19-million-u-k-ruling-over-wachner-trades-2-.html
Bank Leumi  Le-Israel Ltd., the
country’s biggest lender, won a U.K. lawsuit against ex- New York 
Stock Exchange board member Linda Joy Wachner over 13.4 million
euros ($19 million) she lost in foreign-exchange trades.  Wachner, 65, must repay the bank’s U.K. unit what she lost
in 2008 through dollar-euro transactions that went
“disastrously wrong,” Justice Julian Flaux ruled today in the
 High Court  in London. Flaux rejected Wachner’s claim that Bank
Leumi irresponsibly classified her as a professional client with
direct access to dealers on the lender’s U.K. trading floor.  “Despite the somewhat helpless image she now seeks to
portray, that was certainly not her self-assessment at the time
as to her foreign-exchange experience and expertise,” Flaux
said in the 88-page ruling. “One suspects that any attempt to
reclassify her and restrict her access to the dealing room would
have been met by indignation bordering on outrage.”  The dispute over losses on so-called reverse knock-in
options, both in the form of calls and puts, erupted after
Wachner, once one of the highest-paid U.S. executives, accused
the Israeli bank’s U.K. unit of wrongfully allowing her to make
trades she didn’t understand. The trades resulted in heavy
losses after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in
September 2008.  ‘Novice’  Wachner, a NYSE director from 1997 to 2000 who had traded
foreign exchange with the bank since 2003, portrayed herself in
the case as a “novice” who was led into the trades, according
to the ruling.  Wachner may take legal action in New York in response to
today’s ruling, her lawyer  Sue Prevezer , with the firm Quinn
Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP in London, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Our client does not view this matter as closed,”
Prevezer said. “She maintains that she was incorrectly
classified by Bank Leumi and treated as a professional trader
which exposed her to unjustified levels of risk.”  The judge said “that despite warnings which she was given
she carried on trading regardless.”  “She was substantially at fault for not engaging a
professional trader,” Flaux said in the ruling.  Wachner was chief executive officer of New York-based
apparel retailer  Warnaco Group Inc. (WRC) , a maker of branded clothing
including Calvin Klein jeans and Speedo swimsuits, before being
ousted amid investor criticism of her management decisions and
pay.  Wachner and Warnaco auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in
2004 agreed to pay a combined $3.7 million to settle U.S.
allegations they approved a misleading Warnaco annual report.
The company had filed for bankruptcy in 2001 and emerged from
court protection two years later.  “We are pleased that the court vindicated our position,
rejected Ms. Wachner’s counterclaims and found that the bank
properly discharged its regulatory responsibilities in this
matter,” Bank Leumi (U.K.) Plc said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story. 