-- 
Bank of Spain Underestimates Funding Gap Faced by Lenders, Idealista Says

-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 
2011-03-22T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/bank-of-spain-underestimates-lenders-shortfall-idealista-says.html
Spanish lenders face a capital
shortfall that’s “substantially” higher than an estimate by
the  Bank of Spain  because they haven’t accounted for all of
their real-estate losses, according to Jesus Encinar, founder
and chief executive officer of  Idealista.com .  As much as 15.2 billion euros ($21 billion) is needed by
Spanish banks to meet new capital requirements, the central bank
said on March 10. Encinar, 40, said the eventual shortfall may
be between 80 billion euros and 100 billion euros. A spokesman
for the Bank of Spain declined to comment on his estimate.  “Property portfolios are still mostly valued at prices
dating from the boom, rather than current values,” Encinar said
during an interview at his office in Madrid.  Home prices  in some
parts of Spain have dropped about 40 percent since the market’s
peak in 2007, according to his 10-year-old company, the
country’s largest property website.  The Bank of  Spain  published its estimate after the lenders
reported they have about 320 billion euros in property assets
and loans to the real estate and construction industries. The
central bank’s announcement set in motion a timetable that gives
lenders as long as a year to raise funds or risk being taken
over by a government bailout fund.  Savings banks alone have taken on land worth 23 billion
euros after borrowers defaulted on their loans, according to
data from the Bank of Spain. Land prices have fallen as much as
80 percent in the past four years and the valuations used by
lenders are “pure fantasy,” Encinar said.  Lower Rating  Moody’s Investors Service cut its  credit rating  for Spain to
Aa2 before the Bank of Spain’s announcement. Lenders may need as
much as 50 billion euros to comply with the new balance-sheet
rules, the ratings company said. Silvio Peruzzo, an economist at
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in  London , estimates the
shortfall is about 52 billion euros.  On March 15, Spanish Finance Minister Elena Salgado said
that estimates of lenders’ capital needs by rating companies
aren’t comparable with those of the Bank of Spain and the firms
should explain their methodology.  While the Bank of Spain does a “simple subtraction” to
see how much capital is needed to meet the new rules, the rating
companies make “presumptions on the amounts our lenders would
need to cope with certain eventualities.”  Banks have until September to meet core  capital
requirements  of 8 percent for listed lenders or 10 percent for
banks without shareholders that also depend on wholesale
financing. They can seek an extension until the first quarter of
2012 if they commit to listing shares.  Inflated Prices  Banks and other financial-services companies advertise
homes at prices that are as much as 12 percent higher than
privately owned properties, according to Idealista. In return,
they offer better mortgage terms, Encinar said. In some cases,
banks only grant mortgages for homes that they own.  “We tried to inform the banks about the market value of
their properties, but they won’t reduce prices because it would
affect the data that the banks are giving to the Bank of
Spain,” he said.  About 30,000 of the 767,889 homes advertised on
Idealista.com are owned by banks, the company said.  Residential property prices have declined about 15 percent
in large Spanish cities since the top of the market, Idealista
estimates. In some coastal areas, they’ve dropped as much as 40
percent.  “Prices are falling too slowly, which seems to be what the
Bank of Spain wants in order to prevent banks from going out of
business and having to be seized,” Encinar said.  More Foreclosures?  An increase in  interest rates  would make the situation even
worse for lenders, he said. This could lead to more foreclosed
homes that banks will have to take onto their balance sheets on
top of the “second wave” of property and land assets handed
over by  developers that can no longer refinance debt.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
March 3 that the ECB’s key interest rate could rise from 1
percent as early as next month.  Spanish homeowners are particularly vulnerable to rate
rises because 97 percent of outstanding mortgages have variable
interest rates, according to the  Spanish Mortgage Association .
In a typical week this year, 5,000 sellers have lowered the
price of their home on Idealista.com. That climbed to 8,000
after Trichet’s comments.  “If the banks, the government and the Bank of Spain were
more realistic, they would help to restore confidence,” Encinar
said. “Until then, all we can do is plaster over the problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 