-- 
Barnes & Noble Said to Be Likely to End Search Without Buyer

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-03-23T20:18:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/barnes-noble-is-said-to-be-likely-to-end-search-for-buyer-without-a-sale.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the largest
U.S. bookstore chain, is likely to end its months-long search
for a buyer without a sale of the company, said five people with
knowledge of the bidding process.  Private-equity firms and strategic bidders have backed away
from the auction, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because negotiations aren’t public. Interest from at
least seven potential buyers waned after the first round of
bidding, the people said.  The auction isn’t over and will probably last a few more
weeks before the company officially calls off the search, one
person said.  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for  New York- 
based Barnes & Noble, said the process is still ongoing and
declined to comment further.  The chain, facing increasing competition as more people buy
electronic readers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle, hired
Lazard Ltd. last year to explore a possible sale. Barnes & Noble
makes the Nook e-reader, and some potential bidders balked at a
purchase because of how long it may take the chain to generate
more digital sales, two of the people said.  A few private-equity funds determined Barnes & Noble is
relatively unproven in digital sales and would have to compete
in that area with companies such as Apple Inc., Amazon.com and
Google Inc., said the two people.  Digital Content  Barnes & Noble Chairman and founder  Leonard Riggio  has
sought to improve results after three years of profit declines,
hurt by consumers’ switch to digital content. The chain, which
suspended its dividend in February and has sacrificed profit to
invest in its e-reader, saw its closest rival,  Borders Group
Inc. (BGP) , file for bankruptcy this year.  Remaining public may put more pressure on Barnes & Noble
shares as the company tries to transform itself,  Michael Souers ,
an analyst for  Standard & Poor’s  in  New York , said earlier this
month.  “Investors don’t have the most patience in the world,”
Souers said. He recommends holding Barnes & Noble shares.  Barnes & Noble fell 15 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $9.10 at
4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, giving
the company a market capitalization of about $550 million. The
shares have plunged 51 percent since Feb. 18, the last trading
day before the company eliminated its $1 annual dividend.  Poison Pill  Riggio, the largest shareholder, and the rest of the board
began examining a possible sale under pressure from  Ron Burkle ,
who began building a stake in the company in late 2008.  The board responded to Burkle’s stock purchases by
introducing a so-called poison pill in November 2009 to limit
his ownership to 20 percent. Yucaipa Cos., Burkle’s Los Angeles-
based investment fund, sued to overturn the pill and lost.  Yucaipa then waged a proxy contest last year to add Burkle
and two other candidates to the board, losing to Riggio’s slate.
Yucaipa held almost 19 percent of Barnes & Noble as of October,
compared with about 30 percent for Riggio, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Riggio’s empire  began  in 1965 with a college bookstore in
Manhattan’s  Greenwich Village . In 1971, he bought the Barnes &
Noble name and its flagship store in  Manhattan . The company
expanded through acquisitions, buying B. Dalton Bookseller and
Doubleday Bookshops.  U.S. Expansion  The chain shifted from mall-based locations to superstores
in the early 1990s. An initial public offering in 1993 provided
the capital to expand across the U.S., and by 1996 the company
had more than 400 of these locations. The company now has more
than 700 superstores and has closed its mall sites.  Barnes & Noble added to its retail locations in August 2009
after buying Barnes & Noble College Booksellers Inc. from Riggio
for more than $500 million.  More recently, the company’s investment in developing its
Nook digital reader and creating an e-book library have fueled
revenue gains. Sales at Barnes & Noble stores open at least a
year rose 7.3 percent in the quarter ended Jan. 29, the first
gain since 2007. Online revenue, where all digital content
purchases are recorded, surged 52 percent to $319.4 million last
quarter.  The spending has helped Barnes & Noble narrow the gap with
market leader Amazon, which released its Kindle digital book
reader in 2007, two years before the Nook’s debut.  E-Book Sales  The Kindle has 67 percent of the e-reader market in the
U.S., followed by the Nook at 22 percent, according to a
February report from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Amazon also
generates 58 percent of e-book sales, followed by Barnes &
Noble’s 27 percent and Apple at 9 percent.  The retailer may also receive a boost from the bankruptcy
filing of  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based Borders, the second-largest
U.S. book chain, in February. Borders plans to close at least
200 of its superstores as part of its restructuring. Barnes &
Noble may take over some of those locations, Chief Executive
Officer William Lynch said in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  