-- 
Benalec, Berjaya, Harbour-Link, Kulim: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-03-22T00:28:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/benalec-berjaya-harbour-link-kulim-malaysia-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and share prices are from the most recent close.
Malaysia’s  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 0.3 percent to
1,508.88 yesterday.  [bn:WBTKR=BHB:MK]   Benalec Holdings Bhd. [] (BHB MK): The marine construction
company won a 37-million ringgit contract for earthworks and
river protection in Selangor state, according to an exchange
filing. Benalec gained 0.8 percent to 1.23 ringgit.  Berjaya Food Bhd. (BFD MK): Lembaga Tabung Angkatan
Tentera, Malaysia’s armed forces fund, sold 7.97 million shares
in the company which operates Kenny Rogers restaurants in
Malaysia, according to an exchange filing. The fund is no longer
a major shareholder, it said. Berjaya Food, which listed on
March 8, rose 0.9 percent to 59 sen.  Kulim (Malaysia) Bhd. (KUL MK): The Malay Chamber of
Commerce is keen to buy Johor Corp.’s 53 percent stake in the
plantation company so that it remains in the hands of so-called
bumiputeras, Bernama reported, citing chamber President Syed Ali
Alatas. Bumiputeras comprise the country’s ethnic Malays and
indigenous people. The stock rose 0.9 percent to 3.43 ringgit.  [bn:WBTKR=HALG:MK]   Harbour-Link Bhd. [] (HALG MK): The engineering group won a 29
million-ringgit civil works contract in eastern Sarawak state,
according to a company statement. The stock rose 0.5 percent to
96 sen.  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  : The world’s biggest palm oil
producer said former group chief executive officer Ahmad Zubir
Murshid had filed third party legal notices against 22
individuals, including current members of the company’s board.
Ahmad Zubir is seeking indemnity and contributions from these
people if he is found liable in separate lawsuits that he is
defending, Sime said in an exchange filing. Sime rose 0.2
percent to 9.03 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  