-- 
Benin Opposition Leader Houngbedji Claims Presidency as Tensions Increase

-- B y   S e r g e - D a v i d   Z o u e m e   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-03-22T13:17:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/benin-opposition-leader-houngbedji-claims-presidency-as-tensions-increase.html
Benin ’s opposition presidential
candidate, Adrien Houngbedji, declared himself winner of the
country’s March 13 election, disputing figures that put him in
second place and out of contention for a runoff.  “I won the election,” he told reporters in Cotonou, the
commercial capital, late yesterday, saying provisional results
released by the country’s Constitutional Court were
“manipulated.”  The court said Houngbedji got 36 percent of votes in the
election, not enough to force a runoff with President Thomas Boni Yayi who appeared to have secured a second term in office
with a first-round win of more than 53 percent. Opposition
candidates have five days to contest the results and the court
will make its final declaration later this week, Robert Dossou,
head of the court, said on state-owned broadcaster ORTB today.  The Economic Community of West African States expressed
concerned about “escalating tensions” in  Benin  following the
court’s announcement. The regional bloc called on candidates “to
be gracious enough to abide by the results of the election and
to direct all complaints through constitutional channels,”
according to a  statement  published on its website yesterday.  Voting was “peaceful, fair and transparent,” Abuja-based
Ecowas said in the statement.  “Everyone is quite jittery given what happened in Cote
d’Ivoire,” said Kissy Agyeman-Togobo, an analyst with London-
based Songhai Advisory, referring to the West African nation in
the midst of a violent political impasse that followed that
country’s presidential election. Incumbent  Laurent Gbagbo 
refuses to cede power to Alassane Ouattara, recognized by the
 African Union , Ecowas and the  United Nations  as the winner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serge-David Zoueme in Cotonou and Jason McLure in Accra at 
   jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 