-- 
Berkshire Board Would Support Reinsurance Head Jain for CEO, Buffett Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-03-22T16:27:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/berkshire-board-would-support-reinsurance-head-jain-for-ceo-buffett-says.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Chief
Executive Officer  Warren Buffett  said directors would support
Ajit Jain as the company’s next head if the reinsurance
executive decided to seek the post.  “He loves what he does, he’s not looking to take my job,”
Buffett said yesterday at a news conference in Bangalore. “If
he was, the board of directors would probably put him in there
in a minute.”  Buffett, 80, is preparing Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
for his eventual departure. The company said in February it has
four candidates to succeed Buffett as CEO, without publicly
identifying them. In his annual letter on Feb. 26, Buffett
praised Berkshire managers including Jain, energy executives
 David Sokol  and Greg Abel, railroad CEO Matt Rose, and Geico car
insurer CEO Tony Nicely.  “Ajit has probably made a lot more money for Berkshire
Hathaway than I have,” Buffett said in his response to a
question about whether Jain, 59, would succeed him. “I really
feel about him like I would a brother or a son.” Jain didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment left with an
assistant.  Berkshire has said it will split Buffett’s roles as CEO,
chairman and head of investments after the billionaire’s death
or retirement. Last year, Buffett announced the hiring of
investment manager Todd Combs to help run the company’s
portfolio. Buffett has said his son,  Howard Buffett , a Berkshire
director, would be an effective non-executive chairman.  ‘Incredible Talent’  Berkshire’s next CEO will be handed oversight of a firm
that posted $13 billion of profit last year and $30.7 billion of
insurance premium revenue. Jain, who was born in  India , joined
Berkshire more than two decades ago. He runs a reinsurance
business that specializes in large risks and collects the
premiums that have provided funding for Buffett’s investments.  “He walked into the office, I think on a Saturday in 1985,
and I knew I was looking at, and talking with, someone with
incredible talent,” Buffett said. “Over a period of 25 or 26
years, he’s not only excelled at every single task he’s taken on
in insurance, but he’s behaved in a way that’s been totally
honorable, more than generous throughout that period.”  Buffett is visiting  Asia  to review Berkshire’s operations
on the continent and scout opportunities. He was in  South Korea 
earlier this week.  Buffett built Berkshire over four decades from a failing
textile mill to a $210 billion provider of insurance, energy,
 luxury goods  and shipping services. Buffett didn’t respond to a
request for more information on Berkshire’s succession plans
that was sent to an assistant after the press conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Pooja Thakur in Bangalore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net 
Arijit Ghosh at   aghosh@bloomberg.net  