-- 
Berlusconi Hedges Bets on Libya War Outcome by Pushing for NATO Takeover

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-23T09:23:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/berlusconi-hedges-bets-on-libya-war-outcome-by-pushing-for-nato.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
push for NATO to take command of the Libyan no-fly zone shows
how Muammar Qaddafi’s former friend is trying to hedge his bets
over the civil war in Italy’s one-time colony.  “Italy is in a tight spot; it has the most to lose,” said
Nicolo Sartori, an analyst at the Rome-based Institute for
International Affairs. “If NATO takes over and things are run
from Italy, this can be presented to rebels as proof Italy did
its part to help.” In a situation where Qaddafi hangs on to 
power, Italy can say “it only got involved when the 
international community rose up,” he said.  Italy, Libya’s biggest trading partner, has threatened to
withdraw access to its military bases unless the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization take charge of operations. The country’s
airfields, which include NATO bases, are closer to Libya than
the sites now being used in  France  and the U.K.  A rebel victory would leave the African oil supplier under
new ownership, threatening Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI) , the dominant foreign
crude producer since Qaddafi came to power in 1969. Qaddafi has
called Berlusconi a traitor for participating in the campaign
and has threatened to replace Eni, Finmeccanica SpA and other
Italian companies with Russian and Chinese rivals.  ‘Very Resentful’  The U.S. and U.K. say they favor the idea of a single
command under NATO over the current U.S.-led control structure.
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who lobbied European leaders
to back a no-fly zone before the  United Nations  endorsed the
idea, has resisted a shift to NATO control.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said yesterday that “he had no
doubt” control of the operation would be turned over to an
international coalition and that NATO could be ready to assume
control “over the next several days.”  “The Italian authorities are very resentful of a British
or French premiership over  Libya , and a way to dilute their role
and make it more palatable for Italy is to put it under NATO,”
said Arturo Varvelli, a researcher at the Institute for
International Political Studies in Milan.  France opened the attacks against Qaddafi’s forces from its
military bases, and the country’s high-profile role in the
campaign has led investors to speculate it may be trying to
curry favor with the rebels in a post-Qaddafi Libya.  “There is some concern the French might try to gain
economic advantages from their role,” said Patrizio Pazzaglia
head of financial investments at Bank Insinger de Beaufort NV in
 Rome , who owns Eni shares. Paris-based Total SA “may lobby for
a share of future concessions that also interest Eni for
example,” he said.  Ancient Rome  Italy ’s presence in Libya dates back to ancient Rome’s
occupation of the region. This year marks the 100th anniversary
of the start of modern Italy’s 30-year colonization of  Africa ’s
third-largest oil producer. Eni,  Europe ’s fourth-biggest  oil
company , entered the country more than half a century ago and
relies on the nation for about 15 percent of its production.  Oil output has fallen by three quarters since the start of
the conflict and may come to a complete halt,  Shokri Ghanem ,
chairman of Libya’s National Oil Co., said on March 19. Libyan
rebels in Benghazi said they’ve created a new national oil
company, possibly leaving Eni’s contracts in limbo.  French rival Total produces about 55,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day in Libya, about a fifth of Eni’s output.  Eni will continue to work in Libya “whatever the political
system,” Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni , told a
parliamentary committee in Rome on March 16.  ‘Mad Dog’  For now, Italian companies in Libya are bracing for a hit
to 2011 earnings. Ansaldo STS, a railway-technology company,
said the Libyan unrest may cost it 100 million euros ($142
million) of revenue this year, more than 5 percent of forecast
2011 sales.  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , the defense contractor that owns
Ansaldo, had about 600 million euros in Libyan sales last year.  The Libyan civil war also threatens to undo Berlusconi’s
efforts to ensure Italy remains Libya’s biggest trading partner.
Berlusconi courted Qaddafi after U.S. sanctions were lifted
against Libya in 2004. He led a succession of world leaders
willing to put Libya’s past as a sponsor of terrorism and a
developer of nuclear weapons behind them and go into business
with Qaddafi, once dubbed the “mad dog of the Middle East” by
former U.S. President  Ronald Reagan .  Former U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair and former German
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder both visited Libya in search of
contracts during their tenure. Qaddafi traveled to Paris in 2007
to meet with Sarkozy.  ‘Privileged Status’  Still, it was Italy, with its historic and cultural links,
that gained the most from Qaddafi’s rehabilitation, culminating
with the 2008 “Friendship Treaty” between the two nations. As
reparation for its former colonial rule, Italy agreed to invest
$5 billion to build a highway, using Italian construction
companies such as  Astaldi SpA (AST)  and  Impregilo SpA. (IPG)  The agreement
led Eni to announce plans for $25 billion of new investment in
the coming decades.  Qaddafi, in turn, pledged to further open Libya to Italian
companies, curb illegal immigration and invest his oil dollars
in Italy. The country’s central bank and main sovereign wealth
fund own a 7.2 percent stake in  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest
bank. The shares, with a market value of 2.4 billion euros, have
been frozen under European Union sanctions against Qaddafi.
Libyan funds also own 2 percent of Finmeccanica, 7.5 percent of
soccer team Juventus SpA, and the Libyan Investment Authority
also holds about 1 percent of Eni, its former deputy CEO Mustafa Zarti said in a March 9 interview.  Berlusconi’s close ties to Qaddafi have at times raised
hackles in Italy. In March of last year, Berlusconi kissed
Qaddafi’s hand at an Arab League summit in Sirte, Libya, a sign
of deference generally reserved for the Pope. Prior to a
ceremony last August in Rome, Qaddafi organized two “parties”
where 700 young women were paid to listen to the Libyan leader
extol Islam and seek their conversion.  “If Qaddafi stays, he’s a pariah and they can’t deal with
him as before,” Sartori said. “If the rebels win with the help
of the French, Italy won’t have the privileged status it had
before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  