-- 
Beshear Seeks Fix for Kentucky Medicaid Cuts Threatening to Devastate Care

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-03-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/beshear-seeks-fix-for-kentucky-medicaid-cuts-threatening-to-devastate-care.html
Governor Steve Beshear of  Kentucky 
has given lawmakers less than two weeks to approve his plan to
come up with $165 million for Medicaid or he’ll cut payments,
which he said may devastate the state’s health-care system.  The first-term Democrat who took office in January 2008
faces a local variation on a problem vexing governors across the
U.S.: when Kentucky lawmakers approved an $18 billion biennial
budget last year, they overestimated federal Medicaid funding.
That created a $165 million hole that balloons to $600 million
this year with the loss of U.S. matching aid. To fill the gap,
Beshear wants to tap next year’s Medicaid budget, which is fully
funded, and private-sector-style managed care to cut costs.  The state has notified doctors that absent the transfer, it
will be forced to cut their payments by 35 percent. As a result,
care for poor pregnant women, diabetes programs and therapy for
coal miners suffering black  lung disease  may be ended, said
Janie Miller, secretary of the Cabinet for Health and Family
Services, and according to the state’s health-care association.  “There is no acceptable alternative to this plan,”
Beshear, 66, said of his proposal in a telephone interview last
month from the state capital, Frankfort. Without the funds
transfer, health-care providers and hospitals may make service
cuts that “would be devastating,” he said.  Competing Plan  Beshear called a special session of the Legislature that
started March 14, and he’s set an April 1 deadline to approve
the changes or he’ll cut reimbursements, said Kerri Richardson,
a spokeswoman. Republicans, who control the senate, advanced a
competing plan that would make about $35 million more in
Medicaid-spending reductions than Beshear initially proposed.  Beshear, a lawyer from  Dawson Springs  whose father was a
Baptist minister, said he never planned to be governor during
the most prolonged U.S. recession since World War II, which
brought deficits to plague his and other states. He’s rebalanced
Kentucky’s budget eight times in three years and cut $1 billion
in spending, he said, without reducing funds for education or
public safety.  After serving three terms in the Legislature in 1974-79,
Beshear was Kentucky’s attorney general and lieutenant governor.
He ran unsuccessfully for the top job in 1987, after which he
returned to private practice, focused on his family -- a wife
and two sons -- and did some community banking. A “good life,”
he said.  Candidate Search  In 2006, Beshear and other prominent Democrats were
searching for a candidate to run against Republican incumbent
Governor Ernie Fletcher. After several people asked Beshear to
seek the nomination, he carried a seven-way primary by 41
percent and ousted Fletcher by 17 percentage points.  Beshear must close the Medicaid funding gap as he faces re-
election in November. Senate President  David Williams , a
Republican from Burkesville, is his prime opponent.  At stake is the future of Medicaid, the state-federal
health program for the poor, aged and disabled, which has grown
to cover one in five Kentuckians since the recession started in
December 2007. Almost 32 percent of people in the state are
deemed obese, and 80 of 100,000 die from  lung cancer  compared
with a U.S. rate of 55 per 100,000, according to the non-profit
 Foundation for a Healthy Kentucky.   Life Expectancy  The number of Kentucky residents who die before age 75 is
20 percent above the national rate and the state’s life
expectancy of 75.5 years is below the U.S. figure of 78 years,
according to the non-profit  Kaiser Family Foundation .  Kentucky, with the fourth-highest number of farms of any
U.S. state, also ranks fourth in car and truck production from
plants such as  Toyota Motor Corp.’s factory  in Georgetown. The
state’s resource economy was dominated by coal, timber and
agriculture before a wave of postwar industrial growth.  Beshear said he’s talking with 248 companies about making
$2.2 billion worth of investments in Kentucky that would create
almost 15,000 jobs. The state’s unemployment rate was 10.4
percent in January, 1.4 percentage points above the national
rate at the time.  The coming fiscal year is shaping up as one of the most
difficult state budget years. So far, some 44 states and the
 District of Columbia  are projecting budget  shortfalls totaling
$112 billion  for fiscal 2012.  When Kentucky lawmakers passed their two-year $18 billion
budget in May, they assumed an additional $100 million in
federal matching funds for Medicaid that wasn’t approved.
Beshear said the second year of the plan didn’t count on the
higher level of funding.  Reducing payments to address the shortfall may mean the
closure of some cash-strapped hospitals, said Elizabeth Cobb,
vice president for health policy at the  Kentucky Hospital
Association . It could also prompt some physicians to cut
programs for poor, rural and obese Kentuckians, she said.  Extra Savings  Senator Bob Leeper, a Republican from Paducah, said
lawmakers are prepared to plug the $165 million hole provided
the governor agrees to the extra savings through managed care
and cuts across the board. “We don’t have the confidence that
he’s going to be able to do that,” he said.  Dennis Meyers, president and chief executive officer of the
63-bed  Manchester Memorial Hospital  in Manchester, said many
lawmakers don’t understand the complexities of the Medicaid
debate.  He said Medicaid enrollees and the uninsured make up 20
percent of the emergency-room patients in his hospital, which
gets back only about 80 cents on the dollar for the care.  Future Care  “I’m concerned about our bottom line but, beyond that, the
biggest concern I have is whether we’ll be able to take care of
people in the future,” Meyers said. “We’re a microcosm in the
health-care community of what the big picture is, and we have to
worry every day.”  Meyers said programs that don’t make money for his hospital
include obstetrics, gynecology and assisting older coal miners
with respiratory illness. The cuts Beshear has warned of may
mean layoffs among his 535 employees and service cuts to so-
called loss-leaders, he said.  Making the situation drearier is the fact that the growth
of Medicaid costs is due largely to people losing benefits as
jobs disappeared, Beshear said.  “We have people in the Medicaid program who never thought
in their wildest dreams that they would qualify for Medicaid or
for  unemployment benefits ,” Beshear said.  The governor said U.S. voters “sent a very clear message
to  Washington ” last November when they handed Republicans a
majority in the U.S. House of Representatives. He said he’s
hopeful his message of fiscal restraint will resound with voters
and that cooler heads will prevail in the Medicaid debate.  Leeper said political questions go with the turf.  “This is the state capital,” he said. “Politics is
everywhere.”  Steve Beshear at a Glance  Born: Dawson Springs, Kentucky, Sept. 21, 1944.  Party: Democrat.  Spouse: Married since 1969 to Jane Beshear, former teacher and
real estate agent. She manages the family farm in  Clark County .  Children: Jeff, 36, veterinarian; Andy, 33, attorney.
Grandchildren: Nicholas, 7; Will, 20 months; Lila, 8 months.  Career: State representative, 1974-79; attorney general, 1979-
83; lieutenant governor, 1983-87; attorney in private practice
1987-2006; governor 2007-present.  Education: Undergraduate and law degrees from the  University of
Kentucky .  Noteworthy: Beshear’s father and grandfather were Baptist
ministers. He has been active with civic groups including
Commerce Lexington Inc., the Kentucky Horse Park Foundation,
God’s Pantry Food Bank, Bluegrass Tomorrow, the Kentucky World
Trade Center and the U.K. College of Law Visiting Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  