-- 
BG Says U.S. May Allow LNG Exports From Gulf of Mexico

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-03-22T12:38:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/bg-says-u-s-may-allow-lng-export-from-gulf-of-mexico-terminals.html
The U.S. may allow liquefied
natural gas exports from  Gulf of Mexico  terminals after advances
in shale gas boosted output,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  said.  BG, the U.K.’s third-largest natural-gas producer, has been
examining plans to use its  Lake Charles  import terminal in
 Louisiana  for fuel exports, said Elizabeth Spomer, a vice
president for business development. Cheniere Energy Inc., a
Houston-based LNG terminal owner, in June said it may become the
first in the continental U.S. to export LNG.  “The public policy debate hasn’t occurred yet,” Spomer
said in an interview in Amsterdam late yesterday. “It’s
generally not U.S. government policy to refuse exports on the
basis that there is an impact on domestic prices. We wouldn’t be
exporting corn and soya beans if that would be the case.”  The U.S. surpassed  Russia  as the world’s largest natural-
gas producer last year after companies raised extraction of
unconventional gas. BG, which is working with Exco Resources
Inc. to tap U.S. shale gas resources, in February raised its
outlook for U.S. shale output to 190,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day by 2015 from a previous forecast of 100,000
barrels a day.  ‘Competitive’  “The U.S. could export relatively material volumes of LNG
without any impact on the domestic gas price,” De La Rey
Venter, Shell’s global head of LNG, told reporters today in
Amsterdam. “Exports from the U.S. would be competitive
especially in the Atlantic basin.”  The Gulf of  Mexico  has existing import terminals that can
be converted for LNG exports, BG’s Spomer said. “We were
thinking about monetizing our position at  Lake Charles , but it’s
way too early to talk.”  The global industry will need $2 trillion in investment to
find and develop gas supplies equivalent to 20 times production
in  Norway  through 2020, BG Chief Executive Officer Frank Chapman
has forecast.  Norway, the world’s second-largest gas exporter, produces
about 100 billion cubic meters a year of gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  