-- 
MBIA 2008 Loss Projection at Least $12 Billion Short, Banks Say

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-03-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/mbia-loss-projections-at-least-12-billion-short-banks-say.html
When  New York  regulators approved
MBIA Inc.’s 2009 split, the bond insurer’s projected losses on
structured-finance guarantees were at least $11.8 billion short,
according to 11 banks seeking to annul the move.  A  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  unit, hired by the banks for their lawsuit
to analyze potential claims against the insurer at the time of
the regulators’ review, estimated MBIA faced at least $13.8
billion in possible losses on $50.1 billion of securities backed
by home loans and commercial real estate, according to  filings 
yesterday in New York state Supreme Court. The regulators lacked
a basis to approve the restructuring because MBIA at the time
had loss reserves of about $2 billion, the banks argue.  The banks, including  UBS AG (UBSN) , Bank of America Corp. and
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, are fighting a split that moved more
than $5 billion from the company’s MBIA Insurance Corp. unit
into a new insurer in a bid to jumpstart its business of
guaranteeing state and municipal debt. MBIA and other bond
insurers, which sold guarantees to the banks, were shut out of
the market after rising losses on mortgages they backed prompted
ratings firms to strip them of their top rankings in 2008.  “According to BlackRock’s analysis, the expected insurance
losses on less than one quarter of MBIA Insurance’s portfolio
rendered MBIA Insurance deeply insolvent as of December 31,
2008,” the banks said.  Chuck Chaplin,  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  President and Chief Financial
Officer, said the banks’ arguments “are without merit and we
remain confident that the court will affirm the New York State
Insurance Department’s decision to approve MBIA’s
transformation, which came after a thorough and careful
analysis.”  ‘Was Solvent Then’  “MBIA Insurance Corp. was solvent then and remains so
today, two years and two unqualified audit opinions later,” he
said in an e-mailed statement.  The filings yesterday follow affidavits disclosed March 13
in which four former New York state insurance regulators hired
by the banks’ lawyers said they wouldn’t have approved the
restructuring.  The banks sued under New York state’s Article 78, which
allows court review of state administrative decisions, to
challenge former insurance Superintendent Eric Dinallo’s
authorization of the split in February 2009. The approval was
based on a “rushed, cursory and inadequate” review of facts
and on assumptions that at times were outdated and inflated, the
banks claimed in a 187-page court filing.  Ron Klug, a spokesman for the state insurance department in
 Albany , New York, declined to comment. Dinallo couldn’t be
reached for comment, said Suzanne Elio, a spokeswoman for
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, the law firm Dinallo joined in
December.  Appeal Pending  The banks separately sued the bond insurer to challenge the
restructuring in a lawsuit dismissed by a lower court. The
appeal of that suit, which claimed MBIA made the split to avoid
its obligations to policyholders and to defraud creditors, will
be argued in the state’s highest court May 31.  BlackRock Solutions, an advisory services unit of the New
York-based asset manager, reviewed $50.1 billion of securities
guaranteed by MBIA, including “most or all” of the residential
mortgage-backed securities it insured, according to the banks
and an affidavit from Mark Paltrowitz, a managing director who
oversaw the review.  Worst-Case Scenario  Using the same 5.03-percent rate that MBIA used to
partially discount its projected claims payouts, BlackRock
estimated potential losses as of the end of 2008 of $13.75
billion in its “base” case and $20.7 billion in a worst-case
scenario.  The banks, though, are arguing that MBIA inflated its
discount rate by excluding cash and short-term investments when
calculating the rate, understating its loss reserves.  Using a lower discount rate, BlackRock estimated losses of
$17.3 billion to $25.9 billion.  Merrill Lynch & Co., whose parent,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
and an affiliate, are plaintiffs in the banks’ lawsuit, owns 7.1
percent of BlackRock, according to the asset manager’s  website .
Barclays Plc, which was part of the suit before withdrawing last
year, owns 19.7 percent, according to the website.  At one point during the superintendent’s discussions with
MBIA, Hampton Finer, deputy superintendent in the insurance
department under Dinallo, recommended to MBIA executives that an
outside firm be hired to review the securities backed by the
insurer, according to a copy of an e-mail filed by the banks in
the case.  ‘Not Recommending’  “We are not recommending a particular valuation provider,
but others have used BlackRock with some success,” Finer said
in a November 2008 e-mail.  In a reply to the e-mail, William Fallon, MBIA’s chief
operating officer, said the company would obtain a solvency
opinion from Bridge Associates LLC and a fairness opinion from
Raymond James & Associates Inc.  “Please let us know if there is any other information that
you require,” Fallon said in the e-mail.  The cost to protect against a default by MBIA Inc. rose
after the banks’ court filing, according to London-based market
data provider CMA.  Five-year credit-default swaps on the company climbed 2.63
percentage points to a mid-price of 14.6 percent upfront, CMA
data shows. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it
would cost $1.46 million initially and $500,000 annually to
protect against losses on $10 million of MBIA debt for five
years.  The Article 78 case is ABN Amro Bank NV v. Dinallo, 601846-
2009, New York state  Supreme Court  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Freifeld in New York State Supreme Court
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  