-- 
Billionaires Splash Out on Middle-East Art as Dubai Fair Grows

-- B y   J o h n   V a r o l i
-- 
2011-03-22T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/billionaires-splurge-on-middle-east-art-as-dubai-fair-rebounds-from-slump.html
Billionaire collectors splashed out
in Dubai as galleries reported stronger sales and a growing
interest in Middle Eastern art.  Business at  Art Dubai  was better than last year, when the
global economic crisis depressed sales, said dealers. Buyers
shrugged off worries about political unrest and natural
disasters that held back business at the world’s largest art-
and-antiques fair, Tefaf, taking place in the Netherlands.  Art Dubai, a bellwether for contemporary and Middle Eastern
art, this year featured 82 galleries from 34 countries. Fair
organizers said “several hundred” galleries applied to
participate, and 80 percent of them reapplied from last year.
Artworks were priced from $5,000 to $1 million.  “Art Dubai is a meeting point for the international and
Middle Eastern art communities,” Antonia Carver, Art Dubai’s
director, said. “Dubai historically has been important as a
trading point for the Middle East and  Southeast Asia . Now, the
same thing is happening for contemporary art.”  Traffic Gallery  of Dubai reported 40 works sold for a total
of more than $100,000. One of  Ahmed Mater’s  “Evolution of Man”
series (2010) was bought by a Saudi collector for $30,000 just
before the fair opened. The light-box work shows a gasoline pump
morphing into the X-rayed skeleton of a human holding a gun to
his head.  “There’s a bedrock of collectors here from the Middle East
and Europe,” said Carver. “A lot of Middle Easterners come to
the fair from  New York  and  London .”  Russia ’s Miami  Aidan Gallery  of Moscow sold a work from  Aladdin Garunov’s 
“Zikr” series for $20,000 to a Middle Eastern collector living
in  Europe . It features shoes fastened to an oriental carpet. The
artist is from Russia’s southern region of Dagestan.  “Dubai is Russia’s Miami, and many of my Russian clients
vacation here,” said Aidan Salakhova, the gallery owner. “Last
year Art Dubai was dead and we twiddled our thumbs: This year
there’s strong interest from serious potential buyers.”  Ayyam Gallery  sold “Dream 40” by  Safwan Dahoul  for $300,000
to an “important public institution.”  Galerie Chantal Crousel  of
Paris said a Gulf collector bought “Intermission” by Jennifer 
Allora and Guillermo Calzadilla, who will represent the U.S. at 
the  Venice Biennale  of Contemporary Art that opens in June.  Artspace Gallery  of Dubai reported sales including Nadine
Hammam’s “Got Love” (2010) that shows the silhouette of a
female nude. It sold for $16,000 to a Dubai collector. The
gallery also sold Zakaria Ramhani’s, “Bye Bye Hosni,” (2011)
for $26,000. Its theme is  Hosni Mubarak ’s recent removal as
president of  Egypt .  Art Dubai said 20,000 people attended, 30 percent more than
last year. The British Museum, Victoria & Albert Museum and
 Royal Academy  of London sent representatives. Serpentine Gallery
co-director Hans Ulrich Obrist, Museum of Modern Art director
Glenn Lowry and Richard Armstrong, director of the Guggenheim
Museum, also attended, the organizers said.  Art Dubai ended on March 19; Tefaf, the European Fine Art
Fair, in Maastricht, the Netherlands, runs through March 27.  (John Varoli writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
John Varoli in Dubai at  jvaroli@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 