-- 
Billionaire Thapar’s BILT to Raise $330 Million Selling Shares in London

-- B y   A m e y a   K a r v e
-- 
2011-03-22T11:03:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/billionaire-thapar-s-bilt-to-raise-330-million-selling-shares-in-london.html
Indian billionaire Gautam Thapar’s
BILT Paper Plc plans to raise about $330 million selling shares
in  London  and use the proceeds to reduce debt and expand its
paper mills in the South Asian nation.  The company will use $140 million to repay debt and about
$170 million to enhance capacity, BILT said in a statement to
the London Stock Exchange today. The shares of  Ballarpur
Industries Ltd. (BILT) , India’s biggest paper maker, which controls
BILT, gained 4.7 percent to 32.65 rupees as of the 3:30 p.m.
close in Mumbai, after surging as much as 8 percent.  Economic growth is raising literacy levels in the world’s
second-most populated nation where 65 percent of the country’s
1.2 billion people can read and write, according to the 2001
census, adding to demand for BILT’s products. Growth in demand
for paper in  India  may exceed that of  China  this decade, rising
5.5 percent every year, BILT said in the statement.  “This growth in demand, which is closely correlated to
growth in GDP and disposable income, has already led us to
significantly expand our production,” Chairman R.R. Vederah
said in the statement.  The share sale will reduce the founders’ holding in the
company by at least 25 percent, B. Hariharan, director at parent
Ballarpur said in a conference call with reporters today. BILT
Paper will get listed in London by April 20, he said.  ‘Choosing London’  “The idea of choosing London is to attract a new set of
investors from the U.K. and other developed markets,” Ballarpur
Industries’ Chief Executive Officer Yogesh Agarwal said on the
conference call.  Ballarpur Industries holds 79.5 percent in BILT Paper
through unit Ballarpur International Holdings BV. Lathe
Investment Pte, a unit of Government of Singapore Investment
Corp. owns 12.9 percent and JPMorgan Mauritius has the remaining
7.6 percent, according to the regulatory filing.  BILT has a capacity to produce 758,710 metric tons of paper
and 250,000 tons of pulp, according to the statement.  Citigroup Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are managing the
share sale, according to the statement. Thapar is India’s 27th
richest man with $2 billion in assets, according to Forbes
magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ameya Karve in Mumbai at 
 akarve@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 