-- 
Birmingham Soccer Team's Parent Company Raises $11 Million in Share Sale

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-22T16:14:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/birmingham-soccer-team-s-parent-company-raises-11-million-in-share-sale.html
Premier League soccer team
Birmingham City’s holding company raised HK$87 million ($11.2
million) by selling a 12 percent stake through a share sale.  Birmingham, which last month won its first major soccer
trophy in 48 years,  England ’s League Cup, has been trying to
raise funds after parent company  Birmingham International
Holdings Ltd. (2309)  said its liabilities exceeded assets by about
HK$348 million.  Carson Yeung remains the biggest investor in BIH, according
to a filing today to the  Hong Kong  Stock Exchange, although his
stake falls to 16.3 percent from 18.5 percent. That’s controlled
though a personal holding and his company Great Luck Management
Ltd.  The filing said 450 million shares, representing about
12.37 percent of the company, were sold at 20 HK cents each to
not fewer than six parties who aren’t connected to the company
or to anyone linked to it. The shares closed unchanged at 20.8
cents in Hong Kong today.  BIH announced earlier this month that Yeung was applying
for a HK$150 million loan and had pledged in writing that all
the money would be used to “provide sufficient financial
resources” to allow the business to meet its liabilities and
carry on “without significant curtailment of its operation.”  The company said it was fundraising because its financial
position indicated “the existence of a material uncertainty
that may cast significant doubt on the group’s ability to
continue as a going concern.”  Portsmouth Woe  Portsmouth last season became the first Premier League team
to seek  bankruptcy protection  after being unable to pay debts of
more than 100 million pounds ($164 million). The auditor of the
Premier League’s last-place club, Wigan, said the team needed
infusions of cash from its owner to continue as a going concern,
in accounts published earlier this month.  Birmingham is second-last in the 20-team Premier League
after 29 games. If it finishes in the bottom three, it would be
relegated to the second tier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Hwee Ann Tan in Hong Kong at 
6644 or  hatan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  