-- 
BJ’s Shareholder Leonard Green to Study Possible Takeover

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-03-22T20:17:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/bj-s-shareholder-leonard-green-to-study-possible-takeover.html
BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. (BJ) 
shareholder  Leonard Green  & Partners said it’s considering
making an offer for the U.S. membership warehouse chain,
reviving its overtures after BJ’s began looking for suitors.  The retailer and the investor reached a confidentiality
agreement yesterday as part of a possible transaction, according
to a U.S. regulatory filing today. Leonard Green agreed to
provisions restricting it from purchasing additional BJ stock
for a year.  Laura Sen, president and chief executive officer of BJ’s,
is adding smaller-format stores and has said the company is
capturing market share. BJ’s, which operated 189 stores as of
Jan. 29, has a stock-market value of $2.64 billion and had sales
of $10.9 billion in its fiscal year ended Jan. 29.  The Westborough, Massachusetts-based warehouse chain in
February said its board had decided to explore strategic
options, including a possible sale as investor buyouts of retail
and consumer companies rebounded along with  consumer spending .
BJ’s hired Morgan Stanley in November after receiving an offer
from Leonard Green, a Los Angeles-based private-equity firm,
three people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  BJ’s, the third-largest U.S. warehouse chain after  Costco
Wholesale Corp. (COST)  and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Sam’s Club, carries a
heavier mix of groceries than its two larger competitors and
more directly targets consumers over small businesses, said  Joe
Feldman , an analyst with Telsey Advisory Group LLC in New York.  Expanding the Base  “If you’re able to grow the store base a little and
enhance the operations a little bit, that’s where the value
would come,” said Feldman, who doesn’t rate companies.  The company rose $2.32, or 5 percent, to $48.84 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares are up
2 percent this year.  Leonard Green owned 3.9 percent of the company as of March
21, or 9.3 percent including options to buy shares as of
October, according to its regulatory filing today.  BJ’s, which is concentrated on the Eastern seaboard, could
spread west in addition to opening more stores in existing
markets, Feldman said, speaking in a telephone interview.  Earlier this month BJ’s forecast first-quarter profit of as
much as 58 cents a share, exceeding analysts’ estimates, after
it raised membership fees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ; 