-- 
BNY Mellon Boosts Payout 44%, Plans $1.3 Billion Buyback After Fed Review

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-03-22T15:18:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/bny-mellon-boosts-dividend-44-plans-share-buybacks-of-up-to-1-3-billion.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the
world’s largest custody bank, raised its quarterly dividend by
44 percent and plans to repurchase $1.3 billion of shares this
year after the  Federal Reserve  approved the measures.  The bank will lift the dividend to 13 cents a share from 9
cents, payable on May 10, BNY Mellon said today in a statement
from  New York . The company raised the number of common shares
available for repurchase to almost 47 million.  BNY Mellon joins rival State Street Corp. in returning more
capital to shareholders after the Fed reviewed the ability of
the largest U.S. lenders to withstand another economic slump.
Even with the capital measures, the bank said it expects to
exceed the Tier I common  capital requirements  by the end of the
year under new rules known as Basel III.  “Our strong balance sheet and significant capital
generation should continue to provide us with the flexibility to
pursue the opportunities for growth that our business model
affords, as well as return capital to our shareholders,” Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer of BNY Mellon,
said in the statement.  BNY Mellon cut its dividend from 24 cents in April 2009
when plunging equity markets triggered a drop in its
recordkeeping and money-management fees.  State Street, the third-largest custody bank, last week
raised its quarterly dividend to 18 cents a share from 1 cent
and said it will buy back as much as $675 million in common
stock this year. The firm, which is based in  Boston , had reduced
its quarterly payout from 24 cents on Feb. 5, 2009, in an effort
to preserve capital amid the financial crisis.  Custody banks earn fees for keeping records, tracking
performance and lending securities to institutional investors
such as mutual funds, pensions and  hedge funds .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel in Boston at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  