-- 
Japan's Central Bank Pumps Record Amount of Cash Into System Since Quake

-- B y   S a b u r o   F u n a b i k i   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-03-22T07:20:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/boj-current-account-funds-to-reach-record-537-billion.html
Japan ’s central bank pumped a
record amount of funds into the financial system since March 11
to calm markets and soften the economic impact of the earthquake
and tsunami.  Lenders’ deposits with the central bank will jump an
estimated 146 percent to an all-time high of 43.6 trillion yen
($539 billion) today, from 17.7 trillion yen the day before the
temblor struck, the  Bank of Japan  said in a release in Tokyo.  Policy makers have added emergency cash every business day
as they battle Japan’s worst postwar disaster, backed by the
Group of Seven nations’ coordinated intervention to weaken the
yen. Liquidity exceeded the 36.4 trillion yen record set in
March 2004, when the  central bank  was implementing so-called
quantitative easing measures to counter deflation.  “The BOJ is firmly sticking to its promise of pumping a
massive amount of cash into the banking system,” said Toshiaki Terada, a researcher at Totan Research Co., a money-market
brokerage in Tokyo. “Even though Japan’s money market is
already flooded with cash, there is still the risk that cash
demand from lenders will suddenly surge.”  Stocks Rally  Japanese stocks rose today, with the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average marking its biggest two-day advance since April 2009, as
the country made progress in stabilizing reactors at a nuclear
plant crippled by this month’s disaster. The benchmark gained
4.4 percent to close at 9,608.32 in  Tokyo , paring its loss since
the magnitude-9 temblor struck to 7.9 percent.  “The central bank is trying to prevent any business
failures that could be caused by a shortage of cash,” said
 Hiroshi Watanabe , an economist at the Daiwa Institute of
Research in Tokyo. He said cash hoarding by companies and
individuals after the crisis could leave insufficient liquidity
in the market, unless the BOJ pours in extra funds as it’s doing.  The Japanese government will release a monthly economic
report tomorrow, in its first official assessment of the impact
of the disaster, according to the Cabinet Office. Japan’s
annualized growth will trough at 0.4 percent in the second
quarter, the median forecasts of nine economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News show.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said yesterday he can see “light
at the end of the tunnel,” even as smoke hampered efforts to
restore cooling systems at the troubled Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant.  Emergency measures to steer Japan’s economy through the
crisis have included coordinated intervention by the Group of
Seven nations to weaken the yen, aiding the nation’s exporters.
The currency was little changed today at 80.90 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saburo Funabiki in Tokyo at 
 sfunabiki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 