-- 
Bonds's Positive Steroids Test Shows He Lied, U.S. Prosecutor Tells Jury

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-03-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/bonds-was-one-of-three-musketeers-in-steroids-lab-prosecutor-tells-jury.html
Jurors shouldn’t believe  Barry Bonds ’s claim that he never knowingly took steroids because he
failed a drug test, a prosecutor said at the start of his trial.
Defense lawyers said Bonds didn’t know what he was taking.  Urine collected from the home run record-holder a few
months before his 2003 grand jury testimony contained a so-
called designer steroid and testosterone not produced in the
body, Assistant U.S. Attorney Matt Parrella said yesterday in
opening statements in San Francisco.  “All he had to do was tell the truth,” Parrella said, his
voice raised as he gestured toward the seated Bonds. “But he
couldn’t do it. And the evidence will show that he planned not
to do it.”  Bonds, who had occasionally been writing in a small
notebook, stared straight ahead.  The former  San Francisco  Giants outfielder and other
professional athletes connected to Bay Area Laboratory
Cooperative, or Balco, were asked to testify about their
dealings with the company, Parrella said.  He showed the jury a photo of Bonds with his trainer,  Greg Anderson , and the lab’s founder, calling them “the three
musketeers of Balco.”  Allen Ruby, one of the player’s five lawyers in court,
addressed the jury after Parrella and said Bonds testified
truthfully.  ‘The Clear’  “He acknowledged again and again he received ‘the clear’
and ‘the cream’ from Anderson,” Ruby said, using what he said
were terms for steroids distributed by Balco. “When Barry was
getting the clear, nobody knew what it was. It was supposedly
something new.”  Bonds told the grand jury what he received from Anderson
and what he knew about it, Ruby said.  “And we have all this,” he said, motioning to the
courtroom. “That’s not much of a made-for-TV movie.”  Bonds, 46, the holder of Major League Baseball records for
career and single-season home runs, faces four counts of perjury
and one of obstruction of justice. The trial is to last as long
as four weeks.  The slugger, who hasn’t played professional baseball since
the 2007 season, the year he was charged, is accused of lying
when he said he didn’t knowingly take steroids given to him by
Anderson, and that no one other than his doctor gave him
injections.  Guilty Pleas  Anderson and Victor Conte, Balco’s founder, pleaded guilty
to distributing steroids in 2005.  Parrella told the eight-woman, four-man jury that it will
hear from Bonds’s ex-mistress, his former personal assistant and
a former business partner. They will testify that Anderson
injected Bonds with a substance, and that he underwent physical
changes, including testicular shrinkage, indicating steroid use,
the prosecutor said.  “Go ahead and do it,” Parrella quoted Bonds as saying
when his assistant walked in on Anderson injecting him in the
navel. “She’s my girl. She’s not going to say anything.”  Navel injections are “a signature of human growth
hormone” application, the prosecutor said.  Ruby, the defense lawyer, described friction between his
client and two of the forthcoming witnesses.  Bonds and his girlfriend had a “very, very unfriendly
breakup” of their nine-year relationship that left her
“extremely unhappy,” the lawyer said.  Government Witness  The former business partner forged Bonds’s name on sports
memorabilia he was selling, and he became a witness for the
government after Bonds turned over the information about the
forgery to prosecutors months before his grand jury testimony,
Ruby said.  The government’s lawyers and witnesses have tried to
“create a caricature” of the slugger -- “Barry Bonds, a
terrible guy, always has been.”  “And Barry is not a caricature,” he said. “He is a
man.”  Anderson, the trainer, refused to testify yesterday, as he
has in the past. U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston  found him in
contempt of court and ordered him jailed.  “He doesn’t trust the prosecution and he will never
testify,” Anderson’s attorney, Mark Geragos, said in an
interview outside the courtroom.  Anderson has already spent more than 18 months incarcerated
after pleading guilty to steroids distribution in 2005, and
refusing three times to answer prosecutors’ questions about
Bonds, according to court documents filed yesterday by Geragos.  The jury picked March 21 includes a data center engineer at
Amazon.com Inc., two nurses and a business-college student.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 