-- 
BP Spill Raises Concern U.K. Drillers Don’t Plan for Disaster

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-03-22T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/bp-spill-raises-concern-u-k-drillers-don-t-plan-for-disaster.html
The  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill last
year raised concern among U.K. lawmakers that drillers in
British waters aren’t making sufficient plans for accidents.  Parliament’s  Energy and Climate Change Committee 
recommended rules requiring that offshore crew members are able
to halt operations without getting permission from someone
onshore. The governments should require that wells have blow-out
preventers with two blind sheer rams to avoid a blowout similar
to the one at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well last year that started the
worst U.S. spill, according to the advisory committee.  “Despite the high regulatory standards in the U.K., we are
concerned that the offshore oil and gas industry is responding
to disasters, rather than anticipating worst-case scenarios and
planning for high-consequence, low-probability events,” the
committee wrote in a report published in  London  today.  The lobby group for U.K. oil producers said last week that
companies are building a well cap designed by BP to use in
British waters in case of a spill. Oil Spill Response Ltd. has
commissioned the device that will be built by Cameron Ltd., Oil
& Gas U.K. said.  The Gulf spill prompted President  Barack Obama  to ban
deepwater drilling for months. The U.K. energy committee said
there was insufficient evidence that there should be a similar
moratorium in Britain and that such a ban would cause rigs to be
deployed in other parts of the world, depriving the country of
domestic production and energy security.  BP, Total, Chevron  BP,  Total SA (FP)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  are exploring in waters of
similar depths to the Gulf of Mexico in the west of  Scotland ’s
Shetland Islands.  “There are serious doubts about the ability of oil spill
response equipment to function in the harsh environment of the
open Atlantic in the West of Shetland,” the committee said.  It said the $245 million liability limit imposed by  the
Offshore Pollution Liability Association  would be
“insufficient” to cover the expenses of an accident. It also
criticized a provision that companies only need to cover direct
damage from a spill, saying the definition is unclear.  The committee said that BP’s internal investigation of the
accident, called the Bly report after its main author Mark Bly,
arrived at “controversial” conclusions about the Macondo well
design and should only be considered along with other reports
and investigations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  