-- 
Bracco Asks U.S. Approval to Send Chemical War Treatment for Use in Libya

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/bracco-asks-u-s-approval-to-send-chemical-war-treatment-for-use-in-libya.html
The conflict in  Libya  has spurred
Bracco SpA to seek expedited U.S. approval to ship a treatment
for chemical warfare agents to that country, where leader
 Muammar Qaddafi  has supplies of mustard gas.  Bracco’s health-care protective products division applied
for an exemption from arms-trafficking restrictions that bar
sending the decontaminant to Libya, said Timothy Henry, vice
president and general manager of the Princeton, New Jersey-based
unit.  A global humanitarian relief organization, which Henry
declined to identify, wants to provide the Reactive Skin
Decontamination Lotion, or RSDL, to its aid workers in Libya as
a precaution, Henry said.  Bracco’s application marks “the first time operational
concerns caused a non-profit, high-profile relief agency to use
their limited dollars to protect workers with RSDL,” Henry
said. Milan-based Bracco is selling the organization six cases
for the cost of one, he said.  Jason Greer, a spokesman for the State Department, declined
to comment, citing a policy of not discussing applications that
are pending or have been approved.  Governments generally restrict the export of such
treatments for fear they may make it easier for a regime with
chemical weapons to work with the materials, said Michael
Rowell, head of the health and safety branch of the  Organization
for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons , an inter-governmental
agency in the  Hague ,  Netherlands .  ‘Significant Quantity’  U.S. Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, cited Libya’s “significant quantity” of mustard gas
as one worry for the military coalition seeking to stop
Qaddafi’s forces from attacking opponents and rebel fighters.  “There’s no indication he’s moving toward using that, but
certainly that’s something we’re watching very carefully,”
Mullen said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program on March 20.
“We’ve had our eyes on that for a significant period of time,
literally the last two or three weeks.”  While Qaddafi for a time renounced terrorism and the use of
weapons of mass destruction, he still has chemical agents he
once assembled for potential use in warfare. Qaddafi’s
rapprochement with western nations ended last month, when he
ordered his military to put down anti-regime demonstrations.  A military coalition including the U.S., U.K. and  France ,
supported by the  Arab League , began bombarding Qaddafi’s air
defenses March 19 to impose a no-fly zone over the country.  ‘Frequently Invisible’  “We know Libya still has about 9.5 metric tons of sulfur
mustard,” said retired U.S. Army Major General Stephen V.
Reeves, a consultant for Bracco. Mustard gas in the environment
is “frequently invisible, quickly penetrates clothing, and it
can be six to twelve hours before exposure becomes
physiologically apparent.”  If chemical warfare agents are used, “it seems highly
plausible that an aid worker could simply, unintentionally walk
into a contaminated area,” said Reeves, who formerly served as
the Pentagon’s joint program executive officer for chemical and
biological defense.  RSDL gained approval for military use from the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration in 2003 under the sponsorship of the
U.S. Army Surgeon General. It won clearance from European and
Australian regulators in 2009.  The lotion has the effect of neutralizing all known
chemical warfare agents on the skin, according to the company.  More Practical  Because it’s portable, it’s more practical for cases where
large quantities of soap and water aren’t available to douse
someone who has been contaminated, Rowell said.  “It’s a proven technology,” said Rowell, whose
organization implements the global Chemical Weapons Convention.  The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is
among the buyers of the lotion, according to Bracco. Other
customers include most NATO militaries, the fire departments of
 New York  and  Chicago , and the U.S. Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Henry said.  The company first applied on Dec. 22 to remove RSDL from
the defense articles regulations, before the non-profit group’s
order came in, he said. Without a response, Bracco last week
filed for an exemption to ship the product to Libya under the
regulation.  Reeves said RSDL works as soon as symptoms appear,
neutralizing blood, blister and nerve agents, including mustard.  “The fact that it is a lotion makes it far more effective
in treating later post-exposure victims” than previous methods,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  