-- 
Brazil Must Keep Acting to Cool Down Heated Domestic Demand, Tombini Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 
2011-03-22T18:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/brazil-must-keep-acting-to-cool-down-heated-domestic-demand-tombini-says.html
Brazilian central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said policy makers may adopt new measures to
curb  consumer credit  growth in a bid to cool heated domestic
demand. Yields fell.  Tombini, in Senate testimony today in Brasilia, said growth
in consumer credit above 15 percent needs to be monitored “very
carefully” to avoid “excessive risks.” Total outstanding
credit in January rose 20.3 percent to 1.71 trillion reais
($1.03 trillion) from a year ago, central bank data shows.  The bank “will make the adjustments that are needed to
prevent imbalances from arising,” he said. Tombini said he has
“confidence” and “certainty” that interest rate increases,
fiscal cuts and curbs on consumer credit will slow inflation to
4.5 percent -- the midpoint of the government’s target range --
next year.  Economists  raised  their 2011 inflation forecast to 5.88
percent, from 5.82 percent a week earlier, according to a March
18 central bank survey of about 100 economists published
yesterday. Economists expect inflation to slow to 4.80 percent
in 2012, the survey found.  Brazilian economists estimate that the credit curbs have
the same impact on inflation as a 0.75 percentage-point interest
rate increase, according to t median estimate in a central bank
survey published Feb. 24.  Lending, Prices  The average interest rate charged on consumer loans jumped
3.2 percentage points to 43.8 percent, the highest level since
October 2009, as lenders reacted to the credit curbs.  The yields the interest rate future contracts due January
2012 and January 2013, which are the two most traded today,
fell. The January 2012 contract, the most traded overall, fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.35 percent at
2:23 p.m. New York time.  Brazilian inflation is being fueled by strong domestic
demand, coupled with commodity price increases, Tombini said. A
shortage of skilled workers and a “tight” labor market are
also driving up wages, he said.  The central bank must be vigilant to ensure that inflation
in commodities prices does not spread to other areas of the
economy, Tombini said.  Higher food prices impact Brazilian inflation more than
they impact inflation in developed countries, due to their
greater weighting in the  consumer price index , Tombini said.  Expectations  Monthly consumer prices will begin to slow in the second
quarter, while annual inflation should remain at higher levels
before slowing toward to the midpoint of the bank’s target range
in the last three months of this year, Tombini said.  “The central bank needs to present a less optimistic and
harder view to anchor expectations,” said Elson Teles, chief
economist at Maxima Asset Management. “The market needs the
bank to show that it will do whatever it needs to hold
inflation, including traditional tools of monetary policy.”  In the  minutes  of its March 1-2 policy meeting, published
March 10, the central bank said that so-called macro-prudential
measures to curb bank lending are a “rapid and potent” weapon.  Tombini told lawmakers today that a cut in spending
equivalent to 1 percent of  Brazil ’s gross domestic product would
equal a 1 percentage point increase in the benchmark interest
rate.  ‘Dovish View’  Policy makers raised the Selic rate twice this year to
11.75 percent, to slow inflation running at the fastest pace
since November 2008.  President  Dilma Rousseff  last month imposed spending cuts
that amount to a 50.7 billion reais this year, preserving public
investment in infrastructure and social programs.  In December, the central bank increased capital and reserve
requirements to slow credit growth and inflation.  Tombini said the credit measures could intensify the
effects of conventional monetary policy tools.  “Tombini reiterated the dovish view from the minutes,”
said  Luciano Rostagno , chief economist at CM Capital Markets.
“He reinforced the idea of more prudential measures and one
more interest rate increase.”  -- With assistance from Mario Sergio Lima and Iuri Dantas in
Brasilia. Editors: Joshua Goodman, Robert Jameson  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net 
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  