-- 
Brevan Howard Equity Fund Reduced Stock Wagers Before Quake Struck Japan

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-03-22T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/brevan-howard-equity-fund-reduced-stock-bets-before-japan-quake.html
Brevan Howard  Asset Management LP
“significantly reduced” risk last month in its $569 million
equity hedge fund because of the unrest in the Middle East, a
move that limited potential losses from the stock selloff in the
aftermath of the Japan earthquake.  The Brevan Howard Equity Strategies Fund Ltd. cut its “net
exposure” to a range of 0 percent to 20 percent at the end of
February from 30 percent to 50 percent at the start of the
month, according to a  letter  sent to investors this week. Net
exposure measures how much a firm is hedged by subtracting its
bets that stocks will fall from wagers they will rise.  “In light of the increasing uncertainty, both the net and
gross exposure” of the fund “was significantly reduced,”
wrote London-based Brevan Howard, which oversees $32 billion and
is  Europe ’s largest hedge-fund manager. Factors that may hurt
economic growth include rising energy prices and efforts to
slash  government spending  in the U.S., the firm said.  Crispin Odey’s larger Odey European Inc. was hurt by its
bet on stocks after a 9.0 magnitude quake struck Japan on March
11, spurring a global market rout. Odey’s fund lost 5.6 percent
this month through March 14, wiping out its gains for the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Brevan Howard stock fund made its decision as fighting
between Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and rebels escalated in
the North African nation. The move preceded a 4.2 percent drop
in  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index over three trading days after the quake
triggered  Japan ’s worst postwar disaster. The index rebounded 4
percent through yesterday at 9:04 p.m. London time, recouping
most of its losses, amid optimism for global growth.  Rising Risk  Oil prices  rose after the U.S. and its allies started
conducting air strikes in  Libya  last week to halt Qaddafi’s
attacks on rebels. Crude for April delivery was at about $104 a
barrel, up 7 percent since March 15, in electronic trading
yesterday on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  “If things were to deteriorate in the Middle East, we
would expect positions to be moved to reflect that,” said Sean
Molony, chairman of the asset allocation committee at
International Asset Management Ltd., a London-based firm that
has about $2.7 billion invested in  hedge funds . “Clearly, risk
levels have risen over the last month or two.”  The “majority” of risk to the Brevan Howard equity fund
stems from positions in energy and financial companies,
according to the letter. Holdings in material and industrial
companies have been significantly reduced, the note said.  The letter provides a monthly performance overview for BH
Global Ltd., a closed-end  investment company  listed on the
London Stock Exchange with its assets in Brevan Howard fund
strategies.  Call Options  The firm’s equity fund fell less than 1 percent in February
after gaining about 3 percent in 2010. It’s managed by Fabrizio Gallo, who oversaw proprietary trading at Morgan Stanley before
joining Brevan Howard in 2009.  Gallo has in the past replaced equity holdings in his
portfolio with  call options , from which he would still profit if
stocks rise, said Nagi Kawkabani, Brevan Howard’s co-chief
executive officer. Such a strategy limits losses if there is a
selloff in equities, Kawkabani said in an interview yesterday.  “I’m pretty sure he’s not bearish,” Kawkabani said.
“Reducing risk is not the same thing as being bearish.”  Stocks are “not really” Brevan Howard’s focus, Kawkabani
said. The firm’s $25 billion Brevan Howard Master Fund, its
biggest, makes bets on  interest rates  and foreign exchange.  Long-short equity funds, whose managers can bet on rising
and falling stocks, returned 1.2 percent on average in February
and rose 7.3 percent in 2010, according to Bloomberg data.  Odey Asset Management LLP oversees about $6 billion, and
its European fund had $1.5 billion in assets as of Jan. 31,
Bloomberg data show.  “He’s not trying to hedge at the moment,” David Stewart,
the London-based company’s chief executive officer, said of Odey
in an interview. “He’s long and he’s exposed to the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  