-- 
Brown Sees ‘Positive Signs’ in Bid for Republican Votes on California Tax

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-22T04:46:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/brown-sees-positive-signs-in-bid-for-republican-votes-on-california-tax.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown 
said there are “positive signs” in negotiations with
Republicans on a $9.3 billion tax referendum, the cornerstone of
his plan to balance the budget of the most populous state.  Democratic majorities in the Legislature slashed $12.5
billion from spending March 17. Brown wants a special election
to approve extensions on higher taxes and fees, and needs four
Republican votes to authorize the ballot. So far, Republicans
have been united in opposition.  “I’m not prepared to cease negotiating in good faith in
every way that I can,” Brown said after a speech to a labor
 conference  in Sacramento yesterday.  “I remain hopeful. There
are some positive signs.”  The 72-year-old Democrat won election to a third term on a
promise to restore fiscal stability to the nation’s most
indebted state as it faces a $26.6 billion deficit through June
2012.  Brown drew applause when he excoriated Republican
lawmakers, without naming any, for the budget deadlock.  “If you’re not going to do anything, why do you take a
paycheck?” he told labor leaders, who had earlier chanted,
“Let us vote! Let us vote!”  Unions were the second-largest source of funds for Brown’s
2010 campaign, putting in almost $5 million, or 12 percent of
his total contributions,  according to  the National Institute of
Money in State Politics. Only Brown’s own campaign treasury,
from his successful run for attorney general four years earlier,
provided more.  Private Meetings  Brown has been meeting privately with lawmakers from both
parties in an effort to persuade all Democrats and at least four
Republicans to back his tax plan.  Five Republican senators met with Brown, suggesting that
they might back the referendum in exchange for limits on public
pensions, a ceiling on spending and changes to environmental
regulations. No similar effort has emerged in the Assembly.  Brown said some of the Republican proposals are legitimate,
although he said they should be uncoupled from the short-term
need to adopt a balanced budget. The governor said public
pensions are “unsustainable in certain circumstances.”  Although both chambers are controlled by Democrats, Brown
needs two Republicans in each chamber to vote for his plan,
which requires a two-thirds majority.  Brown met earlier in the day with the Legislature’s top two
Democrats, Assembly Speaker John A. Perez and Senate President
Pro-Tem Darrell Steinberg.  ‘Productive Conversations’  “There have been some positive and productive
conversations on some of the issues that have been bandied about
by the Republican caucus,” Steinberg said, without going into
specifics. “We’re going to try to bring this together.”  Steinberg said Republicans may be more open to compromise
now that their annual convention is over. Delegates to the
 California  Republican Party didn’t take up a resolution to
censure any “traitors” who voted with Brown on the tax
measure.  The author of the proposed resolution, Celeste Greig of the
conservative California Republican Assembly, withdrew the
measure before it was to come up for a committee vote.  Still, the gathering of party faithful was full of anti-tax
messages.  “If the Republicans vote to raise taxes, hell hath no fury
like a taxpayer scorned,” Republican pollster and commentator
Frank Luntz said at the convention March 19. “Don’t you dare
vote for the taxes.”  Redrawing Districts  Two factors further complicate the political calculus.
Before the next election, in 2012, a nonpartisan commission will
redraw legislative districts, which may do away with some seats
that were considered “safe” for incumbent Democrats or
Republicans.  Also, traditional partisan primaries will be replaced by a
system in which the top two finishers -- regardless of party --
face off in the general election. That means an anti-tax
Republican could be pitted against an incumbent Republican who
voted to put the tax measure on the ballot.  The changes are weighing heavily on the minds of lawmakers,
said  Mark Baldassare , president of the nonpartisan Public Policy
Institute of California.  “They just don’t know the shape and form of their
districts and what it’s going to mean to run in a nonpartisan
primary,” he said in a phone interview last week. “It may be
different thinking that’s going to lead to different behavior.”  Billions in Shortfalls  With an economy bigger than  Russia ’s, California has fought
through a combined $100 billion of shortfalls in the past three
years. U.S. governors face deficits totaling as much as $113
billion in the coming fiscal year, according to the Washington-
based Center on Budget & Policy Priorities.  If the ballot measure is approved, voters would be asked to
retain a 0.25 percentage-point increase in personal income-tax
rates; a 1 percentage-point boost in the retail-sales tax rate,
to 8.25 percent; an increase in the rate for auto-registration
fees of 0.5 percentage point, to 1.15 percent of a vehicle’s
value; and a reduction of the state’s child tax credit to $99
from $309.  Brown has said he wants to know the outcome of that vote
before June 15, the constitutional deadline for the Legislature
to send him a budget. Last year’s financial plan was passed a
record 100 days into the fiscal year, which begins July 1.  California shares with Illinois the lowest credit rating of
any state from Moody’s Investors Service. The A1 grade is
Moody’s fifth-highest. Standard & Poor’s rates California A-,
its fourth-lowest level for investment-quality securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  