-- 
BT Loses U.K. Appeal Over $68.3 Million Wireless Overcharges

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-22T14:11:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/bt-loses-u-k-appeal-over-68-3-million-ofcom-wireless-finding.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) , Britain’s largest
phone company, lost an appeal to a regulator’s finding that it
overcharged wireless providers such as  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  by 41.7
million pounds ($68.3 million) for access to circuits.  The  Competition Appeal Tribunal  in  London  today rejected
BT’s claim that the regulator,  Ofcom , misused a dispute
resolution process by seeking repayment of the overcharges
instead of setting fair prices for the future.  “Ofcom’s use of the dispute resolution process in this
case was unimpeachable,” the tribunal said in the 106-page
 ruling . The regulator correctly used its power “by ordering
that the entire amount of BT’s overcharge should be repaid.”  Ofcom said in October 2009 that London-based BT should
repay with interest money overcharged from 2004 to 2008 for
access to so-called partial private circuits, which wireless
companies use to connect some customers to phone networks.  “BT is disappointed with the outcome of the appeal” and
will now “consider the range of options open to us for what we
might do next,” Gemma Thomas, a spokeswoman for BT, said in an
e-mail. BT already paid the wireless companies after previously
setting aside 52 million pounds to cover the dispute, she said.  London-based  Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (CWC)  and  Colt
Group SA (COLT) , U.K. units of Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Global Crossing
Ltd. (GLBC)  and New York-based  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  are the
other wireless operators that claimed they were overcharged.  At a hearing in the appeal in May, BT’s lawyer said the
watchdog’s finding was “inherently wrong.”  Ofcom “is pleased that the CAT has supported our
decision,” the regulator said in an e-mail.  Partial-private circuits allow wireless companies to
connect their networks to their end-user customers in locations
where they don’t have direct access, according to court papers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  