-- 
Buffett Seeks to ‘Spend Some Money’ as Omaha Native Makes First India Trip

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-03-22T14:35:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/buffett-seeks-to-spend-some-money-as-omaha-native-makes-first-india-trip.html
Warren Buffett , visiting India for
the first time, said he hopes to invest in the South Asian
nation after his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  committed more than $35
billion to takeovers in the last two years.  “We hope we spend some money here,” Buffett, Berkshire’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said at a media conference
in Bangalore today. “I don’t consider India as an emerging
market. We tend to look at larger countries like India, China,
U.K. Brazil,  Germany . Those all fit us.”  Buffett, 80, is seeking deals in the U.S. and abroad as
earnings climb at Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire. He agreed
this month to pay about $9 billion for engine-additive maker
 Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  and last year bought railroad Burlington Northern
Santa Fe for $26.5 billion. Berkshire’s cash holdings rose to
$38.2 billion as of Dec. 31, prompting Buffett to tell investors
two months later that his “elephant gun has been reloaded.”  Buffett is seeking to expand into India to tap growth in
 Asia ’s second-fastest growing major economy. India’s $1.3
trillion economy may expand by as much as 9.25 percent in the
year starting April 1, the fastest pace since 2008, the finance
ministry forecast last month.  Berkshire, which started selling insurance to Indian
consumers this month after forging an agreement with Bajaj
Allianz General Insurance, will keep doing business in India in
that form for the foreseeable future as the government caps
foreign ownership in insurance companies to 26 percent, Buffett
said.  Ownership Limit  “ India  would be more attractive if we could buy more than
26 percent,” said Buffett. “That is a factor in the decision
of not investing.”  India aims to raise the limit in the  insurance industry  to
attract companies in the $41 billion market,  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy chairman of the nation’s Planning Commission
said in December. He didn’t give a timeframe.  Allianz SE, Aviva Plc and ING Groep NV are among the global
insurers that will be able to invest in their Indian ventures if
the limit is raised in an industry that the Life Insurance
Council forecasts is expanding 34 percent annually.  Nippon Life Insurance Co.,  Japan ’s biggest life insurer, on
March 14 agreed to buy a 26 percent stake in India’s Reliance
Life Insurance Co. to boost business overseas.  Non-U.S. Acquisition  Buffett, whose largest non-U.S. acquisition was the 2006
purchase of Israel’s Iscar Metalworking Cos., is traveling in
 South Korea  and India to visit Berkshire’s operations and look
for opportunities. Iscar, purchased for $4 billion, makes
cutting tools. A stop in Japan was canceled after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami. He visited  China  in September.  Buffett will meet customers of  berkshireinsurance.com , its
venture with Bajaj Allianz, on March 25.  He transformed Berkshire over the last decade by adding
shipping businesses and real-estate brokers to the company’s
insurance, energy and consumer-goods units.  David Sokol , a
Berkshire energy executive, said Buffett has the access to
capital and confidence to pounce on an opportunity and isn’t
limited by devotion to certain industries.  Buffett heads a staff of about 20 at Berkshire’s
headquarters and delegates operational authority of subsidiaries
to the CEOs of each unit.  Berkshire’s growth has prompted Buffett to focus more on
businesses such as power producers and railroads, which require
consistent investment in infrastructure and equipment. Last year
Berkshire posted $13 billion of net income and spent $6 billion
on property and equipment. He has taken at least $2.25 billion
in dividends from Burlington Northern since the February 2010
takeover.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Jay Shankar in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  