-- 
Buffett Says U.S. Economy Improves by the Month, Can Withstand Japan Quake

-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-22T14:33:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/buffett-says-u-s-economy-is-getting-better-month-by-month.html
Warren Buffett , whose  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  posted its biggest profit since 2007 last year,
said the  U.S. economy  is “getting better month by month,”
aided by government stimulus and the strength of capitalism.  “The most important factor is the really underlying
resilience of capitalism,” Buffett said today at a press
conference in Bangalore. There are more than 300 million
Americans “thinking about how to do something better tomorrow
than they’ve done today.”  The U.S. economy expanded 2.8 percent last year, the most
since 2005, after the  Federal Reserve  lowered  interest rates  to
near zero. Joblessness in the U.S., the world’s largest economy,
dropped to 8.9 percent in February from 9.8 percent in November.  “The U.S. economy has been improving fairly steadily, but
not at a great rate” since mid-2009, Buffett said.  Berkshire reported $13 billion of 2010 profit on Feb. 26,
and this month Buffett, 80, announced a $9 billion deal to buy
engine-additive maker  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  Last year, the billionaire
completed the biggest takeover of his career, the $26.5 billion
deal for railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe, in what he
called an “all-in-wager” on the U.S. economy.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 3.2 percent this
year through yesterday after climbing 13 percent in 2010 and 23
percent in 2009. The index is still about 14 percent below where
it ended in 2007.  Global Prosperity  Buffett, who has a derivative bet that Japanese stocks will
advance, said earlier this week that declines caused by the
country’s worst earthquake on record are a “buying
opportunity” for equity investors. The S&P 500 was little
changed at 10:29 a.m. in New York.  The quake “will not stop the growth of the world’s
economy,” Buffett said today. “It’s going to be important for
 Japan , obviously.”  Buffett canceled a trip to Japan after the earthquake and
is now in India after visiting South Korea earlier this week. He
is seeking opportunities for Berkshire in Asia and promoting the
benefits of international commerce.  “Trade is essential to the world’s prosperity, and the
more prosperous the rest of the world is, the better off it is
for the United States,” he said. Buffett oversees more than
260,000 Berkshire employees in industries spanning energy,
insurance, shipping and consumer goods. Berkshire units
including Iscar Metalworking and Fruit of the Loom are among his
businesses that manufacture products outside the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jay Shankar in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  