-- 
Buffett ‘Buying Opportunity’ Meets Next Big One: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-03-22T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/buffett-buying-opportunity-meets-next-big-one-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
The Z/Yen Group just published its
annual  Global Financial Centers Index  and  Tokyo  is tied with
 Shanghai  for fifth place. If the survey were retaken today, what
might happen to Tokyo’s standing?  What a difference 12 days make: a massive earthquake,
deadly tsunamis, radiation panic that only now is coming under
control and blackouts that halted production at the likes of
Toyota Motor Corp. Japan’s world changed on March 11.  Tokyo withstood the 9-magnitude quake impressively. Yet
there’s a reason champagne corks aren’t popping. It wasn’t the
“Big One” Japan has prepared for all these years. It occurred
along a different fault line in the northeast. Now, geologists
wonder if it loaded stress onto the fault line beneath Tokyo.  I’m not trying to yell “Fire!” in a crowded, traumatized
city. Yet is Tokyo ready for the day we hope will never come?
Here are five early lessons we can learn from the recent quake.  One, vigilance works. All those earthquake drills to which
we Tokyoites were subjected over the last decade -- Bring your
helmet! Don’t use the elevator! Climb under your desk! Watch the
 power lines ! Stay calm! -- paid off. The stringent and costly
architectural codes Corporate Japan complained about following
the 1995 Kobe earthquake saved many a life.  Cynics thought it was all window dressing. A 2005 discovery
that architect Hidetsugu Aneha falsified earthquake resistance
data for hotels and condominiums seemed to buttress the point.
Well, seismic standards work. And we can always do better.
Improved tsunami preparedness, including better early-warning
systems, higher seawalls and more education would help.  The Unthinkable  Two, expect the unexpected. When Tokyo Electric Power Co.
opened the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant 40 years ago, the facility
was equipped for the worst-case scenario. Yet as we saw in other
developed nations -- the U.S. in 2005 during  Hurricane Katrina  -
- we humans tend to underestimate damage. Chalk it up to human
nature; we consider it too dark and pessimistic to engage in
serious what-if exercises where huge calamities are concerned.
We rarely contemplate the unthinkable.  Well, what if the Tohoku quake was a foreshock that
affected pressure on the Tokai fault line near Tokyo? It’s
possible that it relieved pressure, which means we are now
safer. The opposite reality would be devastating for Japan’s
economy, given how much output is centered here. The folks at
Z/Yen Group can consider Tokyo’s place in the world. Japanese
know that their entire $5 trillion economy is essentially on,
well, shaky ground.  Fault Lines  Three, nuclear risks abound. That gets us to nuclear power
stations, like Chubu Electric Power Co.’s Hamaoka plant, which
may take quite a hit should the Tokai fault line become active.
At the very minimum,  Japan ’s government needs to act quickly to
retrofit nuclear plants to withstand ever-bigger quakes.  The Fukushima plant wasn’t a huge worry among
seismologists. The same can’t be said of others. Japan needs
protocols in place to shut plants that put the public at risk,
no matter what it means for electricity. Among the things to
avoid is putting backup diesel generators for nuclear facilities
in the basement where they can be flooded by tsunamis.  Four, global markets are watching. The business of business
returned in short order yesterday as Tepco shares rallied 16
percent. Buyers loaded up on the unscrupulous company spewing
radiation into the skies amid signs of progress in stabilizing
its reactors. So much for ethical investing.  Among those eyeing Japanese bargains is none other than
billionaire  Warren Buffett . He says Japan’s record quake is a
buying opportunity.  Investment List  The list of investment targets might include real estate,
technology shares, construction companies, battered automakers,
metal recyclers, waste managers, concrete producers, anything to
do with clean energies like solar and wind, and nuclear-reactor
suppliers like Toshiba Corp. It works both ways. If Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  doesn’t handle Japan’s dueling crises well,
it will become a smaller blip on investors’ radar screens.  Five, economists don’t get it. Among the nuggets of
conventional wisdom being tarnished this week is the resale
value of beach-front property. Also, anyone in Japan living or
working on structures placed atop reclaimed land might want to
reconsider matters. They’re the first things that will turn to
Jell-O if the next great quake unleashes tsunamis.  Many ‘Ifs’  Economic convention will be challenged, too. Talk of a V-
shaped Japanese rebound makes as much sense as the yen rallying,
and it’s plagued by many “ifs.”  If aftershocks stop, if the nuclear crisis is resolved
soon, if electricity disruptions cease, if radiation fears don’t
kill exports, if households don’t save aggressively, if Japan
suddenly learns to power cities without reactors then, sure, we
can smile. To me, that’s a whole lot of uncertainty for a debt-
ridden economy that shrank at an annualized 1.3 percent rate in
the three months ended Dec. 31.  All of these “ifs” pale in comparison to the nagging risk
that the Big One will one day shake Tokyo like never before.
There’s no doubt Tokyo is a vital financial center, and Buffett
is scouring it for investments. I just know that the tectonic
plates below us don’t care.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  