-- 
Bunge Expanding Sugar-Cane Crop After Drought, Weisser Says

-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 
2011-03-22T19:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/bunge-expanding-sugar-cane-crop-after-drought-weisser-says-1-.html
Bunge Ltd. (BG) , the world’s second-
largest sugar trader, is planting more cane in  Brazil  as it
recovers from a drought and plans to run its mills full capacity
next year, Chief Executive Officer Alberto Weisser said.  Bunge is cultivating new land while also growing cane on
areas where crops were destroyed by dry weather last year. It
will plant and replant about 50,000 hectares (124,000 acres)
this month through May in Brazil’s Center South region, Weisser
said. Bunge will have a total of 200,000 hectares growing cane
at the end of the process, he said.  “We have been replanting massively,” Weisser said in a
telephone interview today from the company’s headquarters in
 White Plains ,  New York . “There is more planting than
replanting. We will not benefit from all of it this year but we
will benefit in 2012.”  The drought in Brazil, the world’s largest producer of
sugar, lowered the availability of cane. Startup delays at some
of Bunge’s mills also helped to curb the company’s crushing
capability. Its sugar and bioenergy unit, which lost $13 million
in 2010, aims to boost cane crushing to 17 million tons in 2011
from 13 million tons last year.  “2011 will be a better harvest than 2010,” Weisser, 55,
said. “It’s a bit early to say how much it will be because we
are still in the growing season.”  Above-average rainfall in March in Center South, Brazil’s
main sugar-growing region, will benefit the crop, he said. The
rain may delay harvesting, Marcos Mine, head of the sugar and
ethanol desk at ICAP Brasil in  Sao Paulo , said March 18.  Price Floor  “These rains we are seeing at the moment are good,”
Weisser said. “I don’t see any negative impact.  Raw sugar for May delivery dropped 1.2 percent to 27.16
cents a pound at 3:10 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. The
commodity has advanced 58 percent in the past year.  “Because of the strong real and high price of petroleum,
farmers probably need to receive something like 22 to 24
cents,” he said. “If prices would drop below this, farmers
would not expand.”  Bunge acquired its first sugar mills in Brazil in 2007 and
added five more in the country in early 2010 after its $1.4
billion purchase of Usina Moema Participacoes SA.  The company is still interested in expanding in  Australia ,
Weisser said. Bunge’s bid for closely held Australian producer
Tully Sugar Ltd. was blocked Feb. 18 when Queensland Sugar Ltd.
and Mackay Sugar opposed the removal of a 20 percent
shareholding cap.  Tully Interest  “Tully is an outstanding asset,” Weisser said. “We will
continue to be interested both in Tully and also in others.”  Cargill, which is based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , is the
world’s largest sugar trader.  Bunge also processes and trades grains and soybeans.
Chinese imports of corn will increase over the next couple of
years, especially for feed, Weisser said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  