-- 
Canadian Opposition Parties All Reject Budget, Setting Stage for Elections

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-03-22T21:50:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/canadian-opposition-parties-all-reject-budget-setting-stage-for-elections.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s  budget  was rejected by all three of the main opposition
parties, setting the stage for elections.  Michael Ignatieff , leader of the main opposition Liberal
Party, Gilles Duceppe, leader of the  Bloc Quebecois , and Jack Layton of the  New Democratic Party  told reporters in Ottawa they
won’t support the fiscal plan that was presented today by
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty .  The Conservatives lack a  majority of seats  in the House of
Commons and need the support of at least one of the opposition
parties to pass the fiscal plan. Under Canadian parliamentary
tradition, a budget vote is considered a matter of
“confidence” in the government and would trigger elections if
it is voted down.  The government “missed an opportunity to address the needs
of working families,” Layton told reporters. “Nothing in this
budget has persuaded me that Mr. Harper has changed.”  Harper, 51, faces several Parliamentary votes this week
that could bring down his Conservative Party government about
halfway through its current mandate. Aside from the budget,
there may also be votes over incidents the main opposition
 Liberal Party  calls an abuse of power, including the
government’s reluctance to provide details on the cost of its
legislation.  Deficit Reduction  Flaherty pledged today to use an improving fiscal outlook
to speed deficit reduction, while providing C$7.6 billion ($7.8
billion) in new spending and tax credits over five years in a
bid to win support from opposition lawmakers.  “There is not a whole bunch of new measures,” said Pedro Antunes, director of economic forecasting at the Conference
Board of  Canada . “If the budget is not adopted, it’s pretty
much status quo.”  The five-year fiscal plan projects a C$29.6 billion deficit
in the fiscal year that begins April 1, down from C$40.5 billion
in the current year and a record C$55.6 billion two years ago. A
surplus is projected for the 2015-2016 fiscal year. The plan
projects C$95.1 billion in cumulative deficits through March
2016, C$11.9 billion less than forecast last October.  Tax Reductions  At stake in an election are tax reductions valued at C$6
billion annually for businesses such as  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) 
that the Liberals say are unaffordable and have pledged to
reverse if elected. The Liberals also have said they would
cancel the government’s plans to acquire 65 of  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter jets.  Recent data have shown Canada’s recovery is accelerating,
even as inflation remains tame. The economy added jobs for a
fifth straight month in February, and expanded at a 3.3 percent
annualized pace in the fourth quarter, the fastest in the Group
of Seven.  Canadian  government bonds  have returned 4.6 percent over
the past year according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data, compared with a 3 percent average for the G-7. Canada’s
benchmark S&P/TSX Composite Index has risen 17 percent in the
past 12 months, compared with a 7 percent gain for the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 