-- 
Canada to Allow Property and Casualty Insurers to Demutualize

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-03-22T20:03:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/canada-to-allow-property-and-casualty-insurers-to-demutualize.html
Canada  plans to establish rules
that will allow policyholder-owned property and casualty
insurance companies to demutualize.  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said the governing
Conservative Party will provide “an orderly and transparent
process and ensure that policyholders are treated fairly and
equitably,” according to budget documents released today in
Ottawa. Insurers will be prevented from demutualizing before
rules are in place.  Demutualization would allow insurers such as Economical
Mutual to sell stock and raise capital. The measure is part of
Flaherty’s effort to bolster Canada’s financial sector, which
employs more than 750,000 Canadians and contributed about 7
percent last year to the country’s gross domestic product.
Canada’s banks have been ranked the world’s soundest for three
straight years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum .  Canadian life insurers including  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) 
and  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  demutualized in the late 1990s
before becoming publicly traded insurance companies.  The Canadian government also plans to “formalize” rules for
insurance with private mortgage insurers and the government-
owned Canada Mortgage and Housing Corp. Flaherty announced
changes to rules for government-backed insured mortgages in July
2008, February 2010 and January 2011.  In addition, the government proposed rules to ban the
distribution of unsolicited credit-card checks in Canada and
will “monitor developments” for prepaid credit cards.  The government also said it will provide C$3 million a year
to improve financial literacy in Canada, adding to a previous
commitment of C$2 million a year.  The  Task Force  on Financial Literacy, a group established
by Flaherty and headed by Sun Life Chief Executive Officer
Donald Stewart, reported its findings earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 