-- 
Flaherty to Boost Spending While Seeking Balance as Canada Election Looms

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-03-22T04:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/canada-s-flaherty-to-boost-pre-vote-spending-as-he-works-toward-balance.html
Canada’s Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  will use an improving fiscal outlook to finance new
spending in a fiscal plan later today, even as he seeks to
reassure investors and voters a balanced budget is within sight.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ,  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  and  Suncor Energy
Inc. (SU)  -- the country’s three biggest taxpayers over the past 12
months -- will be among the beneficiaries of a planned 1.5
percentage point cut in the corporate tax rate, which Flaherty
has said won’t be dropped in his budget, scheduled for release
in Ottawa at 4 p.m. New York time.  Flaherty faces pressure for additional spending measures
from opposition lawmakers whose support the governing
Conservatives need to stay in power. He can tap into greater-
than-expected revenue to finance the measures without
undermining his target for a balanced budget by 2015, said Ed Devlin, a London-based money manager at Pacific Investment
Management Co.  “There will be a little extra cash kicking around,” said
Devlin, who heads Pimco’s Canadian portfolio management team.
“Don’t expect any kind of big deviations” from the
government’s fiscal plan.  Flaherty told reporters yesterday the budget will include
“some investment to promote economic growth, jobs.”  New Funding  The budget will provide C$400 million ($409 million) in new
funding for a program that benefits homeowners who carry out
energy-saving improvements, a government official said on
condition he not be identified because the budget hasn’t been
released. The measure is one of the items requested by the
opposition  New Democratic Party .  The budget will also include loan forgiveness on student
debt for new doctors and nurses who work in remote areas, and
funding for an apprenticeship program for armed forces members,
the official said.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper, 51, faces Parliamentary
votes this week that could bring down his government over a
series of incidents the main opposition  Liberal Party  calls an
abuse of power, including government reluctance to provide
details on the cost of its legislation.  Opposition lawmakers -- who hold a  majority of seats  in the
House of Commons -- have suggested they may try to bring the
government down with a so-called no confidence motion this week,
and the government could also fall if the fiscal plan is
defeated in votes that will begin as early as Thursday.  Recovery Accelerating  Recent data have shown  Canada ’s recovery is accelerating,
even as inflation remains tame. The economy added jobs for a
fifth straight month in February, and expanded at a 3.3 percent
annualized pace in the fourth quarter, the fastest among the
Group of Seven nations.  Government bonds  have returned 4.6 percent over the past
year according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data,
compared with a 3 percent average for the G-7. Canada’s
benchmark S&P/TSX Composite Index has risen 17.1 percent over
the past 12 months, compared with a 10.5 percent gain for the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average .  In last year’s  fiscal plan , Flaherty pledged to return to
balanced budgets by letting stimulus measures expire,
controlling defense and international aid spending, freezing
operating budgets for government departments and undertaking a
“comprehensive review” of spending to examine future cost-
cutting possibilities.  The measures were projected to narrow the deficit to about
C$30 billion next fiscal year from C$45 billion in the current
year and a record C$56 billion two years ago. A C$2.6 billion
surplus was projected for the 2015-2016 fiscal year.  Slowest Pace  Spending was forecast to grow at its slowest pace in 15
years, with expenditures projected to shrink by 1.6 percent in
the fiscal year that starts April 1, and grow by an average 2.3
percent over the next four years. That’s down from spending
increases of 8.9 percent on average between 2006 and 2010.  Investors will be looking for more  details  on how Flaherty
plans to meet his spending targets, said Sonya Gulati, an
economist with the TD Economics unit of Toronto-Dominion Bank.  “A significant risk to the fiscal plan is its spending
line,” said Gulati. “What we are looking for is a bit more
detail.”  The most contentious issue related to Flaherty’s budget is
his plan to maintain reductions in corporate tax rates that
would cost the government more than C$6 billion in revenue next
year, according to estimates by the Canadian Manufacturers and
Exporters, an Ottawa-based  lobby group  that supports the
measures.  Corporate Taxes  Canada cut the federal corporate income  tax rate  by 1.5
percentage points to 16.5 percent on Jan. 1, and it will fall to
15 percent in 2012 under legislation passed in 2007. The Liberal
Party has said the next reduction should be scrapped, and wants
Flaherty to do so in this budget.  The  Bloc Quebecois , the second-largest opposition party in
Canada’s parliament, said in January Harper’s government will
need to give the French-speaking province of Quebec C$5 billion
in the budget in order to win its support for the fiscal plan.  The New Democratic Party, seen as the most likely backer of
the budget among opposition parties, has also asked for an
increase in income supplements to low-income seniors and an
expansion of the public pension system, as well as the reversal
of the corporate income tax cut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 