-- 
Capello May Use Rooney Along With Carroll Against Wales: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-03-22T10:31:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/capello-may-use-rooney-along-with-carroll-against-wales-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  England Strike Duo  England manager  Fabio Capello  wants to use Wayne Rooney and
Andy Carroll as his strike force against Wales in the Euro 2012
qualifier next weekend, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Capello’s assistant Franco Baldini watched Carroll in
Liverpool’s win at Sunderland two days ago. The coach is
satisfied the former Newcastle center-forward is fit enough to
play after struggling with a thigh injury, but the key is how he
performs in training, the Mail said.  Rio’s Call  Deposed England captain Rio Ferdinand rang his successor
 John Terry  to wish him luck in the Wales match,  the Sun 
reported.  Ferdinand made it clear his issue over losing the captaincy
was with Capello alone, and said he couldn’t understand
Capello’s refusal to discuss the matter with him, the Sun added.
Terry was stripped of the role last year amid reports about his
private life.  Bellamy Return?  Craig Bellamy , now on loan at Cardiff, is likely to return
to Manchester City even if the Welsh club is promoted to the
Premier League, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Bellamy said Cardiff, his hometown club, probably couldn’t
afford the transfer fee or wages to make the move permanent.  He’s under contract with City until 2012 and his return
would be unlikely to be welcomed by coach  Roberto Mancini , the
Mail added.  Reds’ Target  Real Sociedad winger Xabi Prieto is a potential transfer
target for Liverpool coach  Kenny Dalglish ,  the Sun  reported.  The Reds’ need for a wide man has increased with the
signing of Andy Carroll, the newspaper added. Prieto is rated at
about 10 million pounds ($16.3 million).  City Eyes Hennessey  Manchester City  may try to re-sign Wolves goalkeeper Wayne
Hennessey to provide fresh competition for first-choice Joe Hart, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  City plans to transfer unsettled No. 2 Shay Given, the
Mirror added. Wales keeper Hennessey was at City as a trainee
but the club released him as it rated Kasper Schmeichel more
highly.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 