-- 
CFTC’s Gensler Says Swap Rules Need International Consensus

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-03-22T17:46:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/cftc-s-gensler-says-swap-rules-need-international-consensus-1-.html
Effective oversight of the $583
trillion global swaps market hinges on cooperation between
regulators drafting new rules in the U.S. and Europe,  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  chairman  Gary Gensler  said.  “Effective reform cannot be accomplished by one nation
alone,” Gensler said in a speech to lawmakers at the European
Parliament in Brussels today.  U.S. and European Union regulators oversee a “significant
majority” of the swaps market and must “find general
consensus” on derivatives regulations, Gensler told members of
the EU Parliament’s  Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee .
Convergence of rules is “critical” he said, in response to
questions from lawmakers.  Regulators are drafting rules governing the  derivatives
market  after largely unregulated transactions helped fuel the
2008 credit crisis. The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange
Commission  are leading U.S. efforts, required under the Dodd-
Frank Act, that seek to reduce risk and boost transparency by
having most swaps guaranteed by clearinghouses and traded on
platforms such as exchanges.  The EU’s focus only on derivatives traded away from
exchanges may lead to gaps in regulation in the region compared
with the U.S, Gensler said.  “The U.S. law covers all swaps, all derivatives,” Gensler
said. The “idea is not to have an arbitrage that some things
are in and some things are out,” he said, without elaborating.  Comparable Rules  U.S. lawmakers have tasked regulators with determining
whether other nations should be recognized as having rules that
are “comprehensive and comparable” with those in the U.S.,
Gensler said.  “I would fear that if you were only covering part of the
marketplace it would be harder to make that determination,”
Gensler said. It would be a “fairly critical point.” He didn’t
specify what the consequences of non-comparability would be.  EU regulators are also looking for “comparability” from
other nations “for Europeans to use data repositories or to use
clearing houses” located there, he said.  The EU proposals concern so-called over-the-counter
derivatives, those traded outside of regulated platforms.  The global market for such trades was $583 trillion as of
last June, according to the Basel-based  Bank for International
Settlements .  Out of Step  CFTC Commissioner Jill E. Sommers said March 7 in a speech
delivered to a meeting of the  Institute of International Bankers 
that the agency’s derivatives-trading rules have put it “out of
step” with other U.S. and overseas regulators.  A CFTC proposal for new swap execution facilities doesn’t
provide the same flexibility as a proposal from the SEC or rules
under discussion in  Europe , Sommers said.  Differences in trading regulations may lead banks and other
market participants to shift where they conduct business,
according to a Feb. 18  report  from a technical committee of the
 International Organization of Securities Commissions . IOSCO,
based in  Madrid , is a forum for securities regulators to set
international standards.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 