-- 
Chavez Raises Bread, Pasta Prices as Much as 33%, Risking Inflation Surge

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-03-22T14:49:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/chavez-raises-bread-pasta-prices-as-much-as-33-risking-inflation-surge.html
Venezuela  raised price caps on
bread and pasta in order to bring costs in line with rising
international prices, Food Minister Carlos Osorio said,
threatening to accelerate the hemisphere’s fastest inflation.  The cost of baguette-style bread was increased about 24
percent to 5.52 bolivars ($1.29) per kilo and pasta was raised
33 percent to 4.33 bolivars per kilo, Osorio said. Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez ’s government regulates the price of basic
foods.  “We’re adjusting the prices for the goods made with wheat,
a product that we don’t produce locally and that we’ve become
accustomed to consume through imports in the past,” Osorio said
today on state television. “The price of wheat has risen
internationally.”  Chavez, who scrapped the subsidized exchange rate of 2.6
bolivars per dollar on Jan. 1 that was used to import food and
medicine at lower costs, risks fueling inflation as he adjusts
regulated costs to prevent shortages. Consumer prices
rose 28.7 percent in February from a year earlier, the fastest
pace in six months.  South America ’s largest oil producer has the 
fastest annual inflation of 78 economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Replenishing Stockpiles  Global wheat production in the crop year that begins in
July will rise 3.7 percent to 672 million tons, according to the
International Grains Council, a group of more than 50 nations.
That may be too little to fully replenish stockpiles. The
combined inventory of the seven biggest exporting nations and
the EU will drop 22 percent by the end of the current crop year,
according to the London-based IGC.  The government is moving to raise price caps on goods that
have a strong weight in the  central bank ’s national consumer
price index and that have been pegged for an average of 2.5
years, the resolution published in the Official Gazette said
today.  The resolution also said that the recent devaluation has
put added pressure to raise the prices due to the higher import
costs.  “The government has worked in a coordinated effort to
evaluate the cost structure and won’t let prices be set by the
invisible hand of the market,” Osorio said. “Just imagine the
price of the food goods if we didn’t regulate them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  