-- 
China Telecom Profit Gains 42% as Smartphone Users Rise

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-22T11:27:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/china-telecom-fourth-quarter-profit-gains-42-misses-analysts-estimates.html
China Telecom Corp., the country’s
biggest fixed-line carrier, said fourth-quarter profit rose 42
percent as its mobile-phone unit more than tripled the number of
smartphone users on its network.  Profit excluding gains from connection fees rose to 2.67
billion yuan ($408 million) in the three months ended Dec. 31,
from 1.88 billion yuan a year earlier, the Beijing-based company
said in a statement on its  website  today. That compares with the
3.06 billion yuan average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Chairman Wang Xiaochu boosted the number of users for the
company’s third-generation service to 12.3 million at the end of
December, from 4.1 million a year earlier, by increasing the
variety of handsets on offer. China Telecom now plans to buy the
3G assets it leases from its parent to save money after the cost
of leasing the CDMA network rose 59 percent in 2010.  “The reason why they are buying the network is because the
leasing fee they are currently paying to the parent company is
more than the depreciation of the assets and related finance
charges,” Kelvin Ho, a Shanghai-based analyst at Yuanta
Securities Co., said by telephone. “If they buy, it will be
cheaper and they will save costs. The parent will try to price
it attractively so it will be accretive.”  China Telecom paid 13.3 billion yuan as leasing fees to its
parent last year, the company said.  Subscriptions Jump  Wang boosted the company’s total number of mobile
subscribers 61 percent last year with handset subsidies and
promotional calling rates to grab share from market leaders
 China Mobile Ltd. (941)  and China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd.  Sales in the fourth quarter rose 5.1 percent to 56.2
billion yuan. That compares with the 59.9 billion-yuan average
of nine analysts’ estimates.  China Telecom rose 2.3 percent to HK$4.49 at the 4 p.m.
close of trading in Hong Kong. The stock has gained 10 percent
this year compared with a 0.8 percent decline in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   China Telecom will complete the purchase of the 3G CDMA
wireless network by the end of next year, Wang said at a press
conference in Hong Kong. The network is valued at about 90
billion yuan and the purchase, for which the price is yet to be
decided, will be funded with debt, he said.  Apple Talks  The carrier said today it offered subsidies to promote 3G
smartphones and increased the number of models to more than 300
at the end of last year from about 100 at the start of 2010.
China Telecom is in talks with Apple Inc. about product
offerings that Wang said he couldn’t elaborate on.  China Unicom is the only Chinese carrier now offering
Apple’s iPhone in the nation’s market. China Telecom’s CDMA
network is similar to that of  Verizon Wireless , which began
selling CDMA iPhones in February.  Higher use of its third-generation network lifted operation
costs 10 percent to 47.3 billion yuan last year, while Wang also
boosted capital expenditure by 13 percent to 43 billion yuan to
expand broadband  Internet access .  Capital spending  will rise to
50 billion yuan this year, Wang said today.  “The biggest concern for investors would be higher
capex,” Paul Wuh, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Samsung
Securities Co., wrote in a report to clients today. He has a
“buy” rating on the stock.  The number of mobile subscribers increased to 90.5 million
at the end of December, from 56.1 million a year earlier, China
Telecom said in January. The carrier ranks third in wireless
users in the Asian nation, behind China Mobile and China Unicom.  ‘Prime Period’  “The next two to three years will be a prime period of
strategic opportunities,” Wang said. “Mobile Internet is
undergoing a rapid growth period and wireline broadband is still
enjoying considerable room for development.”  The prospects for growth are accompanied by “intensified
challenges from increasingly fierce competition in the existing
and new businesses,” he said.  The statement didn’t specify how much was spent on
subsidies in the fourth quarter. China Telecom spent 6.1 billion
yuan on handset subsidies in the first half of 2010, or about 27
percent of the wireless division’s revenue, Wang said in August.
The proportion would be lower than 30 percent for the full year,
he said at that time.  China Telecom entered the wireless market in 2008 by
acquiring the smaller of China Unicom’s two mobile divisions in
a government-led revamp of the Chinese mobile-phone industry.  China Mobile, the world’s biggest phone carrier by users,
on March 16 reported fourth-quarter net income rose 3.7 percent
to 32.4 billion yuan, beating analysts’ estimates. China Unicom
is scheduled to announce results on March 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  