-- 
China Telecom Plans to Buy Wireless Network From Parent as Users Tripled

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-22T08:51:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/china-telecom-plans-to-buy-wireless-network-from-parent-as-users-tripled.html
China Telecom Corp., the country’s
biggest fixed-line carrier, said it plans to buy the mobile-
phone network it now leases from its parent company after the
number of users more than tripled in the past year.  China Telecom will complete the purchase of the third-
generation CDMA mobile phone network by the end of next year,
Chairman Wang Xiaochu said at a press conference in  Hong Kong 
today. He said the network is valued at about 90 billion yuan
($14 billion) and that the purchase will be funded with debt. He
said a price for the acquisition hasn’t been decided.  China Telecom boosted the number of 3G phone users to 12.3
million at the end of last year, from 4.1 million a year
earlier, by increasing the variety of handsets on offer. The
network purchase will raise earnings, Wang said. The listed-
company’s CDMA network capacity lease fee rose 59 percent to
13.3 billion yuan last year, the company said today.  “The reason why they are buying the network is because the
leasing fee they are currently paying to the parent company is
more than the depreciation of the assets and related finance
charges,” Kelvin Ho, a Shanghai-based analyst at Yuanta
Securities Co., said in a phone interview today. “If they buy,
it will be cheaper and they will save costs. The parent will try
to price it attractively so it will be accretive.”  China Telecom rose 2.3 percent to HK$4.49 at the 4 p.m.
close of trading in Hong Kong.  The company said today profit excluding gains from
connection fees rose 42 percent to 2.67 billion yuan in the
three months ended Dec. 31. Sales rose 5.1 percent to 56.2
billion yuan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  