-- 
China Profitable as Business Climate Worsens, Amcham Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-22T04:49:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/china-operations-more-profitable-as-climate-worsens-amcham-says.html
More U.S. businesses in  China  said
they were profitable last year even as they became increasingly
pessimistic about the Chinese government’s commitment to
improving  market access , the American Chamber of Commerce in
China said today.  Seventy-eight percent of member companies surveyed by
Amcham said their China operations in 2010 were very profitable
or profitable, the highest proportion in survey results dating
back to 2002, the Beijing-based chamber said in its annual
business climate survey. At the same time, 24 percent of
respondents said China’s economic reforms had done nothing to
improve the environment for U.S. businesses in the country, up
from 9 percent who said the same in the previous poll.  The disconnect between performance and perception comes as
U.S. companies, including  Google Inc. (GOOG) , say the Chinese
government is making it increasingly difficult to do business in
the world’s second-biggest economy. At the same time, the
country’s rapid economic growth makes it an increasingly
important market for companies such as General Motors Co. and
General Electric Co.  “There are two themes to the data,” Amcham China Chairman
Ted Dean told reporters in Beijing. “American companies are
doing well and American companies are concerned about in some
cases the current regulatory environment and in others the trend
line for the regulatory environment.”  More Investment  Eighty-three percent of Amcham China member companies plan
to increase investment in the country this year, according to
the survey, which used responses from 434 member companies out
of a total of about 1,100 members. Some 85 percent of
respondents reported increased revenue from their China
operations last year. Sixty-three percent reported improved
operating margins, compared with 44 percent who said the same of
their 2009 results.  Seventy-one percent of the respondents said China’s
business licensing process discriminates against foreign
companies, according to the survey. More respondents -- 31
percent -- named bureaucracy as one of their top five challenges
than any other issue, up from 23 percent in 2010.  Yao Jian, a spokesman for China’s Commerce Ministry, told
reporters today in response to the Amcham survey that China will
give equal treatment to foreign companies and further promote
opening of the domestic market.  The survey’s results come after Google Inc. said its Gmail
service is being blocked by China’s government in such a way
that it is “carefully designed to look like the problem is with
Gmail.” While the Gmail page is usually still visible within
China, for at least two weeks users have had trouble accessing
their accounts and sending emails from the site.  Dean said the Gmail blockage is a “cause for concern to
our members and we’ve had members raise the issue already, so
it’s something we’ll be following closely.”  --Michael Forsythe, with assistance from Regina Tan. Editors:
Peter Hirschberg, Ben Richardson  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  