-- 
Christchurch's City Center to Become Low-Rise After Quake, Architect Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-03-22T03:33:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/christchurch-s-city-center-to-become-low-rise-after-quake-architect-says.html
The center of Christchurch, the
second-largest city in  New Zealand , will become an area of low-
rise, wider buildings after last month’s devastating earthquake,
according to an architect advising on the city’s rebuild.  Plans to overhaul the city center, which was hit by a
magnitude 6.3 earthquake on Feb. 22, will take at least six
months to materialize,  Ian Athfield  said at a Sydney briefing
organized by Ray White Group,  Australia  and New Zealand’s
biggest property broker. Christchurch City Council appointed
Athfield as lead advisory architect on the city’s rebuild after
a magnitude 7.0 temblor on Sep. 4.  “There certainly will be a resistance in the medium term
to go into high-rise buildings,” Athfield said.  Christchurch’s central business district was severely
damaged by both the February and September quakes, and a cordon
prevents business owners from entering their premises. The
government is preparing to set up temporary business parks on
the edges of the city, Earthquake Recovery Minister  Gerry Brownlee  said earlier this month.  “We’ll see a bit of spread, with regard to where business
centers are springing up,” Adrian Raine, a commercial property
agent for Ray White in Christchurch, said during the briefing.
“We may have lost a few tenants already from the CBD
permanently. Those who have already moved into business parks,
they have no reason to go back in there.”  Christchurch’s new office buildings are likely to be wider
than before and no more than five stories high, Athfield said.
That will enable them to withstand an earthquake better than a
narrower, taller building, he said. The city’s rebuild will take
at least five years, he said.  The estimated repair bill for the South Island city may be
as much as NZ$15 billion ($11 billion), or 7.5 percent of gross
domestic product, the  International Monetary Fund  said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  