-- 
Chrysler Pushes Dealers to Hire More Salesmen to Reach 32% Goal

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-03-22T14:16:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/chrysler-pushes-dealers-to-hire-more-salesmen-to-reach-32-goal.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker operated by  Fiat SpA (F) , is pushing its U.S. dealers to
hire more service workers and salesmen to help the company boost
vehicle sales 32 percent this year.  “While it’s still early in the calendar year, now is the
time to act,” Peter Grady, vice president of Chrysler’s network
development and fleet, said in a memo to dealers this month.
“Hiring additional personnel in preparation for the spring
market is essential for success in 2011.”  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  is targeting
global sales this year of 2 million vehicles, including
1.57 million in the U.S. The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
automaker has begun selling new or revamped models including the
Chrysler 300 large sedan, Dodge Durango sport-utility vehicle
and Fiat 500 subcompact.  Chrysler, aiming to boost U.S. deliveries by 45 percent
this year, has been working with its 2,311 dealers in the market
to extend store hours and add quick-lube services. In February,
Marchionne said 80 percent of the automaker’s U.S. dealers were
operating profitability, the highest percentage since 2000.  “After analyzing our competitors and your 2010 financials,
we believe there’s still some work to do,” Grady told dealers
in the memo.  Chrysler’s sales staff productivity was “considerably
lower” than competitors’ and the number of salesmen fell
10 percent last year while rivals increased their forces, he
said.  “Chrysler underperforms by almost two vehicles per month
per salesperson,” Grady said.  Service Revenue  Chrysler’s service advisers generated $8,500 less each
month in sales than their  General Motors Co. (GM)  counterparts and
$2,500 less than those at  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Grady said.  “Peter Grady corresponds regularly with the dealer body,
but we don’t discuss business operations publicly,” Ralph Kisiel, a Chrysler spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Chrysler dealers in recent months have hired 600 sales
consultants, 500 technicians and almost 100 service advisers,
Grady said. He said metropolitan dealerships should hire six
additional sales consultants, three technicians and one service
adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 Thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  