-- 
Cinven Said to Start Raising $7 Billion for Fund as LBO Firms Resume Deals

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-03-22T17:25:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/cinven-said-to-start-raising-7-billion-for-fund-as-lbo-firms-resume-deals.html
Cinven Ltd., the British private
equity firm that owns the  Pizza Express  restaurant chain, is in
talks to raise 5 billion euros ($7 billion) for a leveraged
buyout fund, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Managing Partner Hugh Langmuir, a 20-year Cinven veteran,
began briefing investors on the plans today after the firm spent
70 percent of the 6.5 billion-euro pool it raised in 2006, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the decision
is private. The firm initially sought 5 billion euros for its
previous fund.  Cinven follows competitors BC Partners Ltd., Montagu
Private Equity LLP and  Sweden ’s EQT Partners AB in returning to
investors for money in  Europe  as LBO firms resume acquisitions
as the credit crisis eases.  BC Partners , one of the first
European funds to start raising money since 2008, has amassed 4
billion euros so far out of the 6 billion euros it’s seeking for
its latest fund, people with knowledge of the talks said on
March 8.  Cinven was founded in 1977 by the Coal Pension Trustees
Services Ltd. It has been an independent company since 1995 and
has invested throughout Europe in companies including  Amadeus IT
Holding SA (AMS) , the flight-reservation provider that went public
last year, French women’s clothing retailer Camaieu and Avio, a
maker of engines for airplanes and rockets.  The firm expects to announce a so-called first close of the
new fund in the second half of the year before completing the
fundraising in 2012, investors were told at the firm’s annual
meeting in  London  today, according to the people. Cinven’s 2006
fund is posting a 40 percent gain on its investments, while the
firms’ previous fund has returned about 27 percent a year after
fees, they said.  Private equity firms raised $225 billion last year, the
lowest since 2004 as investors became reluctant to commit money
to new funds before reaping profits from previous investments,
according to Preqin Ltd. They may raise more than $300 billion
this year, the London-based firm research said.  Cinven is planning to extend the investment period of its
current fund by a year starting in June, to invest another 1.3
billion euros from it, according to the people. The firm is also
considering options including initial offerings for Avio and
Dutch cable company Ziggo BV, one of the people said.  Private equity fund managers have led $74.8 billion of
buyouts this year, twice the amount in the same period in 2010,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  