-- 
Coalspur, Pace, SouthGobi, Uranium One: Canadian Equity

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-03-22T13:24:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/coalspur-mines-imperial-metals-wajax-canadian-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Canadian trading.  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  : The country’s
second-largest railroad forecast first-quarter earnings of 12
Canadian cents a share to 22 Canadian cents a share. The average
estimate among 25 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was 74 Canadian
cents a share, excluding certain items.  Coalspur Mines Ltd. (CPL)  : The developer of a  coal mine 
in Alberta received a “speculative buy” rating in new coverage
from Mike Plaster, an analyst at Salman Partners Inc.  Imperial Metals Corp. (III)  : The producer of base and
precious metals in British Columbia forecast 2011 declines in
production of 11 percent in copper, 6.1 percent in gold and 53
percent in silver.  Pace Oil and Gas Ltd. (PCE)  : The exploration and
production company was rated “buy” in new coverage at
Canaccord Financial Inc. The 12-month forecast price is C$14.50
per share.  SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ)  : The coal producer
operating in Mongolia reported a fourth-quarter loss of $28.7
million as costs climbed.  Uranium One Inc. (UUU)  : The uranium producer said its
option to buy Mantra Resources Ltd. from Rosatom Corp.’s ARMZ
Uranium Holding Co. for the same price the Russian state-owned
nuclear company will pay can be extended to two years from one
year.  Wajax Corp. (WJX CN): The distributor of heavy equipment
and industrial components said it may face Hitachi parts
shortages due to the earthquake in  Japan .  To contact the reporter on this story;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 