-- 
Coalition Aircraft Watching Qaddafi Son’s Elite Unit, U.S. Commander Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/coalition-eyes-qaddafi-s-premier-unit-to-attack-locklear-said.html
U.S. and coalition air forces in
the “coming hours and days” will target ground forces of
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , including the brigade commanded
by one of his sons, the top U.S. tactical commander said.  The 32nd Brigade, which is estimated to have as many as
10,000 troops and is commanded by Qaddafi’s youngest son,
Khamis, has the best equipment and is the “primary regime
protection element,” according to a Pentagon statement.  The brigade is a “premier force for Colonel Qaddafi” that
“we have been watching closely,” U.S. Admiral  Samuel Locklear 
told reporters at the Pentagon via telephone from his command
ship in the  Mediterranean Sea . Initially arrayed around Tripoli,
the brigade has moved some of its elements around the country to
reinforce other Libyan forces under attack, he said.  Increased air-to-ground attacks, based on timely
intelligence, will intensify soon, Locklear said. That’s because
in spite of the coalition’s success in grounding  Libya ’s  air
force , “it’s my judgment Qaddafi and his forces are not yet in
compliance with the UN Security Council resolution,” he said.  Qaddafi’s forces continue “aggressive actions” against
the civilian population, Locklear said. These include attacks or
failure to pull back units as required in Misrata, Ajdabiya and
Zawiyah in violation of United Nations demands.  “We’re conducting a wide range of operations across Libya.
Certainly the 32nd Brigade is always considered in the
calculation of how we conduct operations in the future,” he
said. “We will continue to watch carefully their positions.”  Harrier Attacks  Marine  AV-8B  Harriers on March 21 launched night attacks
with laser-guided bombs on tanks and artillery attacking
Ajdabiya “believed to be elements of the 32nd,” U.S. Marine
Corps spokesman Captain Richard Ulsh, on the USS Kearsarge off
Libya, said in an e-mail.  An expanding coalition has destroyed Libya’s air defenses
and has set up an initial no-fly zone that includes the  Northrop
Grumman Corp. (NOC)  Global Hawk high-altitude drone and Joint Stars
ground surveillance aircraft for tracking moving vehicles and
convoys, Locklear said.  “As the capability of the coalition grows,” it will be
able to provide more support and more “time-sensitive
targeting,” of forces not complying with the UN demand for a
cease-fire, Locklear said.  Airpower Strategy  Locklear was referring an airpower strategy espoused by the
Air Force in the early days of the 2003  Iraq war , and later in
the 2007 surge, that calls for the rapid attack of individuals
or ground forces based on intelligence.  It has had mixed results. The Air Force in 2003 set up a
“TST cell,” consisting of 25 Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps
weapons experts working alongside military and civilian
intelligence analysts to match bombs and missiles to potential
targets.  One of the best known examples of the system was the
Tomahawk missile and F-117 stealth fighter attack on the first
day of the Iraq invasion, intended to killed  Saddam Hussein . He
was not at the target that intelligence identified.  In their book “Cobra II,” about the Iraq invasion,
authors Michael Gordon and Bernard Trainor  concluded  that “as
the war waged, allied planes would carry out strikes against
other time-sensitive targets. But not one of the top 200 figures
in the regime was killed by air strike. Such attacks would be
only as good as the intelligence they are based on.”  Special Operations Forces  The U.S. has had more success with ‘time-sensitive-
targeting’’ during the Iraq surge and in Afghanistan. U.S.
special operations forces killed numerous al-Qaeda and Iraq
leaders after being cued by cells that consolidated and analyzed
real-time information from informants, satellites and
eavesdropping.  In  Afghanistan , U.S., NATO and Afghan special forces
between May and mid-August conducted more raids against Taliban
and other insurgents’ networks at any time in the almost nine-
year conflict, according to U.S. officials.  -  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  