-- 
Libya War Cost to Be ‘Tens of Millions’ of Pounds, U.K. Says

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-03-22T18:36:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/cost-of-libya-war-to-be-tens-of-millions-of-pounds-u-k-says.html
The cost of the U.K.’s military
operations in  Libya  will be in the “tens of millions” not
“hundreds of millions” of pounds, U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  told Parliament today.  Lawmakers “will understand that it is too early to give a
robust estimate of the costs of the operations in Libya,”
Osborne said in London. “The costs should be modest compared to
some other operations, like  Afghanistan , and the Ministry of
Defense’s initial view is that these will be in the order of the
tens of millions not the hundreds of millions of pounds.”  With the coalition in its fourth day of the campaign, the
London-based  Royal United Services Institute  said it estimated
at current rates the Libyan operation could cost 100 million
pounds ($164 million) within four to six weeks, at a rate of
around three million pounds a day.  For every hour in the air, the U.K.’s Tornado GR4 and
Typhoon aircraft cost 35,000 pounds and 70,000 pounds
respectively, a spokesman for RUSI said in a telephone
interview. The figures are based on defense ministry figures
from costs on the conflict in  Kosovo .  The ministry figures lower costs, putting the extra
spending at 4,897 pounds per hour for the Tornadoes and 3,875
for the Typhoon jets because manpower and equipment costs are
already accounted for, according to an official who couldn’t be
named under department ground rules.  Osborne also confirmed that Defense Secretary  Liam Fox 
would not have to fund the campaign from his ministry’s over-
stretched budget, saying it would be paid for out of central
government funds.  “Whatever they turn out to be, the additional costs for
operations in Libya will be fully met from the reserve,”
Osborne said. U.K. spending on defense is set to fall to 8.7
billion pounds in the fiscal year 2014-2015, an 8 percent
reduction over four years. Defense Procurement Minister Peter Luff said March 8 further cuts this year were in the offing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  