-- 
Crude Oil Futures Increase as Japan Reconstruction May Bolster Fuel Demand

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-03-22T20:42:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/crude-oil-drops-on-speculation-supply-disruptions-will-be-limited-to-libya.html
Crude rose on speculation Japanese
rebuilding efforts will bolster fuel consumption and as unrest
spread in the Middle East and North Africa.  Oil climbed 1.6 percent as  Japan  considered setting up a
reconstruction agency to oversee repairs from the March 11
earthquake and data showed the central bank pumped record
liquidity into lenders. Prices have advanced 14 percent this
year as turmoil that drove longtime rulers from power in Tunisia
and Egypt spread to Libya, Yemen, Bahrain and Syria.  “Japanese oil demand took a hit initially but is going to
rebound in spades,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist
at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis . “The
situation won’t be resolved soon and will probably get worse
before it gets better.”  Crude oil for April delivery increased $1.67 to $104 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since March 9. April futures expired today. The more-
active May oil contract advanced $1.88, or 1.8 percent, to
settle at $104.97.  Prices declined from the settlement after the  American
Petroleum Institute  reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles rose 970,000 barrels to 350.8 million. May oil was up
$1.79, or 1.7 percent, to $104.88 a barrel in electronic trading
at 4:33 p.m.  Brent oil for May settlement rose 74 cents, or 0.6 percent,
to end the session at $115.70 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  Oil Volume  Oil volume on the Nymex was 506,304 contracts as of 4:34
p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 499,436 contracts yesterday, 38
percent below the average of the past three months and the
lowest level since Jan. 3. Open interest was 1.51 million
contracts, the least since Feb. 22.  “Volume is extraordinarily light right now,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “It only takes a stiff breeze to move the market when the
volume is this low. The April contract also expires today, which
can lead to volatility that doesn’t really mean very much.”  The March 11 earthquake, Japan’s strongest on record,
triggered a tsunami that killed thousands and damaged the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. Tokyo Electric Power Co. began
restoring power at the facility today, easing concern there will
be a nuclear meltdown.  “The recent tragic events in Japan will result in a sharp
short-term drop in economic activity but is likely to be
followed by a strong recovery driven by reconstruction and
replacement of durables which would boost the demand for many
commodities,” Societe Generale’s analysts led by  Michael Wittner  in New York said in the report dated yesterday.  Japanese Rebound  Japan is likely to see a rebound in the second half of this
year, a Bloomberg News survey of economists showed.  Japan’s refineries are processing more oil than expected,
Vienna-based researcher JBC Energy GmbH said. The earthquake
shut six refineries totaling about 29 percent of the country’s
processing capacity, Bloomberg calculations based on Petroleum
Association of Japan data show. Three of the plants remain
closed, JBC analysts led by  David Wech  said today in a note.  The increased refining “is supportive for the market,”
said  Hamza Khan , an analyst with the Schork Group Inc., a
consulting company in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “The Japan news
explains why crude is stronger than the products today.”  Gasoline for April delivery rose 0.71 cent to end the
session at $3.0045 a gallon in New York. Heating oil for April
delivery climbed 2.37 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $3.0762 a
gallon, the highest settlement since March 4.  Libyan Fighting  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said the intensity of
the military campaign in  Libya  will ease soon after allied
forces imposed a no-fly zone on Muammar Qaddafi’s regime,
enabling rebels to push out of their stronghold in Benghazi,
Libya’s second-largest city.  The fighting “should recede in the next few days,” Gates
said at a press conference in Moscow today. Opposition fighters
advanced on the central gateway city of Ajdabiya, which is held
by loyalist troops, according to the  Associated Press . Qaddafi’s
army units continued to shell the western, rebel-held city of
Misrata for a second day, residents said.  “The Middle East and North Africa are going to keep oil
very jittery and keep this uptrend intact,” said  James Cordier ,
portfolio manager at OptionSellers.com in Tampa,  Florida .  Yemen Warning  Yemen’s president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, warned defecting
generals that they risk dragging the country into a “bloody
civil war,” and signaled he’s ready to quit this year if the
uprising eases and elections are held.  Opposition efforts to oust Saleh, a U.S. ally against al-
Qaeda, have intensified since a March 18 crackdown against
protesters. At least 46 people were killed and scores injured in
the capital as police and snipers opened fire in the worst
violence since the unrest started two months ago.  “The market is probably stuck in a $100-to-$105 range
until things get a lot worse in Libya or a lot better in
Japan,” said  Rick Mueller , director of oil markets at Energy
Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  