-- 
Cumberland Advisors Buying in Japan After Divesting to ‘Zero’: Tom Keene

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-03-22T18:29:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/cumberland-advisors-buying-in-japan-after-divesting-to-zero-tom-keene.html
Cumberland Advisors Inc., which
manages more than $1.5 billion in assets, is purchasing  Japan ’s
securities after abandoning them when the country’s worst
earthquake on record struck more than a week ago.  “We took Japan all the way to zero on the first news, and
we’ve been scaling back into Japan continuously,”  David Kotok ,
chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors in Vineland,  New
Jersey , said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with Tom Keene. “There’s a culture and a resilient population
-- history is on our side on that one -- and it’s a very wealthy
country with very good technical capabilities.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 4.4 percent today
following a 2.7 percent increase on March 18 in the biggest
two-day rally since April 2009 as operators made progress in
stabilizing reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant. Japan’s equities markets were closed yesterday for a
public holiday.  The nation’s risk of returning to a recession eased after
Group of Seven nations intervened in  currency markets  last week
to stabilize the yen. In a blow to the nation’s exporters, the
yen had appreciated to a post-World War II high on speculation
insurers and investors would sell foreign assets and repatriate
funds to help pay for damage from the earthquake.  “The intervention was to damp that volatility,” Kotok
said. “And it worked. It caught the markets by surprise. It
stabilized the markets.”  Yen’s Impact  A stronger yen diminishes foreign demand for Japanese
exports, hampering the nation’s economy at a time when growth is
already forecast to be depressed.  Japanese policy makers are girding for a contraction in
gross domestic product that may be as deep as an annualized 12
percent in the second quarter, according to Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co.  Sony Corp., Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics, suspended some work at five plants in the central
and southern regions today until March 31 because of trouble
getting supplies after power outages, the company said in a
statement. Toyota, the world’s biggest carmaker, said all
domestic car-assembly will be stopped until March 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  