-- 
Dell Aims to Increase India Sales to $2 Billion, Add Workers

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-03-22T09:04:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/dell-expects-india-revenue-to-reach-2-billion-chairman-says.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  Chief Executive Officer
Michael Dell said he aims to boost sales in India to $2 billion
as the third-largest personal-computer maker plans to increase
investment in Asia’s third-biggest economy.  “If I look out to 2020, 2030, India is on a clear path to
become the third largest economy in the world and our investment
will scale very nicely in support of that,” Dell told reporters
in  New Delhi  today. “We have about 23,000 people here. We’ll
probably grow that by a few thousand, certainly, over the next
year or so.” Dell didn’t give a timeframe for the sales target.  Dell last month reported sales in the South Asian nation
jumped 37 percent in the three months ended Jan. 28, outpacing
the 21 percent growth in the PC maker’s larger Chinese business.
Operations in  India , where the company has a factory in the
southern state of  Tamil Nadu , will play a crucial role in
future, the chief executive said.  “India for us is a critical part of our infrastructure
globally with research and development, and IT services and
sales and support, manufacturing, analytics,” Dell said. China
and India will contribute an increased proportion of the
company’s sales, the 46-year-old founder said in November.  Sales in Brazil, Russia, India and China combined also grew
21 percent in the fourth quarter, the Round Rock, Texas-based
company reported last month. The so-called BRIC countries
accounted for 13 percent of revenue, or more than $2 billion.  Dell had 14.2 percent of the overall Indian PC market in
the three months ended December, giving it the second position,
research company IDC said in a  statement  on its website last
month.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the largest personal-computer
supplier, held the top spot in the South Asian nation last
quarter with a 17.3 percent share, and Taiwan’s  Acer Inc. (2353)  was
third with 11.5 percent, according to IDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  