-- 
Delta Cuts Japan Seats Up to 20%; AMR Says Quake Hurt Sales

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-03-22T20:18:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/delta-air-lines-cuts-japan-seats-up-to-20-amr-says-quake-damped-revenue.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  will slash
seating capacity to  Japan  as much as 20 percent through May,
while  American Airlines  reported a “modest” revenue decline
after the March 11 earthquake and radiation leaks.  The reductions at Delta will have a net effect of
$250 million to $400 million, the carrier said today at a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. conference in  New York .  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s
American is keeping its full schedule and the April 1 start of a
trans-Pacific joint venture with Japan Airlines Corp.  American is “monitoring the situation carefully” and has
the ability to shrink capacity if necessary, Treasurer Beverly
Goulet said at the conference.  The U.S. carriers join  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s budget unit in trimming Japan flights to match
waning demand. The U.S. is Japan’s largest overseas travel
market, with 9.2 million passengers and $10.5 billion in revenue
annually, according to Citigroup Inc.  Delta has the most seating capacity generated in Japan
among U.S. airlines, at about 7 percent, followed by 5 percent
for  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and 3.5 percent for
American, according to Gary Chase, a Barclays Capital analyst in
New York.  United Continental Chief Executive Officer Jeff Smisek
didn’t address the specific financial effects of Japan bookings
during his remarks.  Losing some Japan business adds to the strain on U.S.
carriers already grappling with a 32 percent increase this year
in the price of  jet fuel  for immediate delivery in New York
Harbor, as well as sales damped by winter storms.  Cutting Back  Delta also said today it would reduce seating capacity by
4 percentage points in 2011’s second half, especially in markets
where “revenue has not kept pace with fuel” such as the trans-
Atlantic. In addition, the Atlanta-based carrier is chopping
departures by 25 percent at its hub in Memphis, Tennessee.  Weather disruptions from snow and ice in the U.S. damped
revenue at American by $50 million, the Fort Worth, Texas-based
carrier said.  United Continental on March 7 dropped plans to expand
seating capacity as much as 2 percent this year, saying it would
be unchanged instead.  Delta and American rank second and third in the U.S. by
passenger traffic, trailing United Continental. Chicago-based
United Continental reiterated yesterday that it expects total
available seating will be little changed this year.  The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index of 12 carriers fell
5.2 percent from March 11 through today, outpacing a 0.8 percent
drop for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  ‘It’s Psychological’  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , the fifth-largest U.S. airline, said
total bookings fell about 20 percent the day of the quake and
remain down a “couple percent” from pre-disaster levels. The
Tempe, Arizona-based carrier has no service across the Pacific.  “It’s psychological more than anything, as people deal
with the uncertainty of supply chains around the world,”
President Scott Kirby said today at the conference. “I think it
will be a temporary effect.”  Revenue for each seat flown a mile rose 13 percent through
March 15 and probably will be up 3 percent in the second half of
the month as a result of the slide in bookings, Kirby said.  US Airways  also trimmed its systemwide growth plans for
this year to 1.5 percent, from 2 percent.  Fare Increases  Kirby and  Gary Kelly , Southwest Airlines Co.’s chief
executive officer, said a series of ticket-price increases this
year to offset higher fuel costs hasn’t discouraged demand.  “We’ve had six fare increases so far this year,” Kelly
said. “That’s a lot in 90 days. At the same time, we’ve seen
very strong demand. We’re very pleased with our continuing
revenue momentum.”  Southwest, based in Dallas, reiterated plans to increase
capacity 5 percent to 6 percent this year, excluding its pending
acquisition of AirTran Holdings Inc.  Singapore will suspend one of its two daily flights to
Tokyo’s Haneda airport, where Delta is pulling out, starting
March 27. Qantas’s Jetstar will redirect half of its 14 weekly
Tokyo-bound flights to  Osaka , the carriers said. Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd., Korean Air Lines Co. and Singapore Airlines have
ended temporary increases in  Tokyo  capacity as demand cools.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  