-- 
Delta Slashes Japan Capacity, Trims Atlantic Routes on Fuel

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-03-22T13:17:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/delta-air-lines-slashes-japan-capacity-as-much-as-20-after-quake-tsunami.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  will cut
capacity on its  Japan  routes by as much as 20 percent through
May, joining Asian carriers that have trimmed services after an
earthquake and radiation leaks from a nuclear power plant.  The impact of Delta’s cuts in Japan service will be $250
million to $400 million, the carrier said today in a  regulatory
filing . Delta is suspending service to Tokyo’s Haneda airport
and will continue serving Narita.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. will suspend one of its two daily
services to Haneda from March 27, and Jetstar, the budget unit
of Qantas Airways Ltd. will redirect half of its 14 weekly
Tokyo-bound flights to  Osaka , the carriers said. Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd., Korean Air Lines Co. and Singapore Air have ended
temporary  Tokyo  capacity boosts as demand cools.  Carriers added seats out of the Japanese capital last week
as overseas governments advised residents to avoid the city
after the earthquake and an accident at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear power plant.  About $2 billion of Delta’s total revenue, or 8 percent,
“touches Tokyo” and there has been “some drop-off in
bookings,” President Ed Bastian said in a presentation during a
transportation conference in New York hosted by JP Morgan Chase
& Co.  The decline in  travel demand  to Japan is “somewhere
between a 6- and 9-month one-time event” and will probably
rebound when the government puts more money into the economy for
rebuilding efforts, he said.  Delta, the world’s second-largest carrier, said it would
reduce overall seating capacity by 4 percentage points in the
second half of the year, especially in markets where “revenue
has not kept pace with fuel” such as the trans-Atlantic. The
Atlanta-based airline is cutting departures at its Memphis hub
by 25 percent.  The company is retiring 120 of its least-efficient planes
over the next 18 months, including DC9-50s and Saab turbo-props
and 60 of its 50-seat regional jets, according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 