-- 
Deutsche Boerse, NYSE Deal Faces Lengthy EU Antitrust Review, Almunia Says

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-03-22T17:48:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/deutsche-boerse-nyse-deal-faces-lengthy-eu-review-competition-chief-says.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE
Euronext face an in-depth European Union review of their
proposed merger, according to the region’s antitrust chief.  The “analysis of this operation will not be a simple
one,”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust commissioner, said in
Brussels today. “I will not be surprised if this merger, once
it is notified, will be one of those cases where we are obliged
to go to phase two,” he said, referring to the extension of a
review beyond an initial month-long probe.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
must rule on the takeover, which would combine NYSE Euronext’s
Liffe and Eurex, the exchange jointly owned by  Deutsche Boerse 
and the Swiss Stock Exchange. The deal would put more than 90
percent of the region’s exchange-traded derivatives market in
the hands of one organization.  Almunia also said that he preferred a “more open business
model” like the one used by  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , which uses outside
companies for some aspects of clearing, to Deutsche Boerse’s
“vertical silo,” which routes all clearing through its own
services.  Clearinghouses -- such as Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex Clearing
unit and  London ’s LCH.Clearnet Ltd. -- operate as central
counterparties for every buy and sell order executed by their
members, who post collateral, reducing the risk that a trader
defaults on a deal.  Vertical Silo  “I tend to prefer models that are not a vertical silo,”
said Almunia, without giving details of how this may affect the
way he views the merger review. “This creates more competition,
more opportunities and this more open business model -- together
with interoperability -- from the competition point of view is
the preferred one.”  Naomi Kim, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Boerse in  Frankfurt ,
declined to comment on Almunia’s remarks.  “It’s absolutely crucial that investors can make their own
choice where to clear, trade and settle,” Rob McIvor, a
spokesman for the Association for Financial Markets in  Europe ,
said in a telephone interview. AFME represents international
lenders including Deutsche Bank AG, BNP Paribas SA and UBS AG.  “What banks and end users are looking for is
interoperability between clearers, so they are not channeled
down a particular route for clearing,” McIvor said.  Derivatives Rules  Almunia said the EU’s probe would need to dovetail with
planned rules governing derivatives in the region.  The EU is considering plans to increase the use of
clearinghouses in trading of so-called over-the-counter
derivatives. The draft rules, proposed by the commission in
September, also contain provisions to increase interoperability
between different clearinghouses. The extent of this
interoperability is still being discussed by governments and
members of the European Parliament.  “During the analysis of this merger, we will have to be
very well coordinated” with EU governments and lawmakers on the
new derivatives legislation, he said.  Dominique Cerutti, NYSE Euronext’s deputy chief executive
officer, said last month he expects an “intense” and lengthy
EU review, lasting as long as a year. U.S. and European
financial markets supervisors aren’t expected to raise problems,
he said.  In most cases, an in-depth EU probe adds an extra four to
five months to the  approval process .  Almunia said today he’s met with officials from both sides
of the deal to discuss “their intentions” and didn’t know when
they would formally ask the EU to start reviewing the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 