-- 
Deutsche Bank Loses First German High Court Case Over Swaps

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-03-22T17:14:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/deutsche-bank-loses-german-top-court-case-over-spread-ladder-swap-sales.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest
bank, lost a case over interest-rate swaps in the first ruling
by Germany’s highest court concerning sales of the products that
have spurred lawsuits against lenders throughout Europe.  The bank must pay  Ille Papier Service GmbH  541,074 euros
($770,000) plus interest over the swap purchase, Federal Court
of Justice Presiding Judge Ulrich Wiechers said. The bank didn’t
adequately disclose the risks of the products, he said.  “As an adviser to its customer, the bank must guard the
customers’ interest alone,” Wiechers said in Karlsruhe,
Germany, today. “But as a seller of the swap, a loss to the
customer works to the banks’ advantage.”  The ruling will influence dozens of disputes Deutsche Bank
has with local German governments, community-owned utilities and
companies that claim the lender sold swaps without adequately
disclosing risks and fees for the products that were designed to
lower interest payments. Cases over derivatives sales have
spread throughout  Europe  with similar disputes in  Italy ,  France 
and  England .  “The floodgates are open,” said Michael Dempster, founder
of the University of Cambridge’s Centre for Financial Research
in the U.K., who is working with law firms, including the
lawyers for Ille Papier, representing German municipalities in
swaps cases. “Every bank was doing this and not just in
Germany.”  ‘Risk Provisions’  Deutsche Bank lawyer Christian Duve said his client needs
to analyze the written ruling. The “number of open disputes
over these swaps is limited,” he said. “The bank has taken
adequate risk provisions for this.”  Olaf Kayser, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg,
estimates swap-related suits may cost Deutsche Bank a “mid
double-digit million euro sum.”  “I think the damages for Deutsche Bank are relatively
limited because the bank has already won or reached settlements
for the majority of such cases,” Kayser said. “These cases
could damage the bank’s reputation.”  Deutsche Bank’s maximum exposure from the suits would be
“substantially” less than 100 million euros, Deutsche Bank
spokesman  Ronald Weichert  said. Shares of the bank fell 7 cents,
or 0.2 percent, to 41.13 euros in Frankfurt trading.  Deutsche Bank, which acted as Ille Paper’s adviser, had the
duty to disclose an initial negative market value of about
80,000 euros that covered the lenders profit and costs, because
it was a crucial indicator how chances and risks were structured
into the product, Wiechers said today.  Negative Market Value  “The bank consciously structured the risk to its own
advantage and at the expense of its client to be able to sell
that risk to the market,” said Wiechers. “The negative market
value, consciously structured by the bank, was a manifestation
of a grave conflict of interest.”  The bank also didn’t adequately explain the risk, according
to the judge. It wasn’t enough to tell Ille Papier that it could
“theoretically” face unlimited losses.  “The court very well exposed the structure of the product
and the conflict of interest problem,” said Jochen Weck, a
lawyer for Ille Papier.  There are eight cases pending at the top court and 17 in
lower courts over the same type of derivative, according to
Deutsche Bank.  ‘Greater Transparency’  Banks may fare better in the U.K., where dozens of swaps
cases have been filed. Barclays Plc earlier this month won a
case filed by Cassa di Risparmio di  San Marino  and in 2009 two
Norwegian towns were ordered to pay Depfa Bank Plc about 425
million kroner ($76 million).  “The more interesting question is what happens when banks
specifically exclude that they act as an adviser, said Dario Loiacono, who represented San Marino. “This judgment seems to
confirm that bank must act in the interest of the client,
irrespective of how sophisticated the client is. It defeats the
premise of caveat emptor.”  In Italy, municipalities face derivative losses of at least
1.2 billion euros,  Bank of Italy  data from June 30 show.  Today’s case centers on a derivative Deutsche Bank branded
as a “CMS Spread Ladder Swap.” Under its terms, the lender
agreed to pay its customer 3 percent interest on 2 million euros
for five years. The customer had to pay the bank 1.5 percent
during the first year and later a variable rate based in part on
the spread between two-year and 10-year Euribor rates.  The court rejected Deutsche Bank’s argument that every high
school graduate could calculate the formula the swap was
structured on. It wasn’t enough to explain the steps of the
mathematical operation unless the banks also explained what
risks it entails, Wiechers said.  Formulaic Poems  “Let me put it this way: If you are able to read the words
of a poem, you haven’t necessarily also understood its
meaning,” said Wiechers. “That also applies to this swap’s
formula.”  At the February hearing the lender’s lawyer, Reiner Hall,
said that if the court required banks to disclose their profit
margins, they could cause a new financial crisis. Such a ruling
could cost the industry “billions of euros,” said Hall.  Wiechers rejected that argument today, saying as a rule,
banks don’t have to disclose profit margins. The swap in today’s
case required disclosure of profit margins because it involved
greater conflict of interest between the bank and customer,
according to the judge.  Profit Disclosure  “It’s clear that as a general rule banks don’t have to
disclose their profits if they sell products,” said Lars
Kloehn, a law professor at  Germany ’s Marburg University. “They
do have to disclose them if additional circumstances apply, for
example when banks act as investment advisers and sell products
that they have deliberately structured to the detriment of the
customer.”  Ille Papier, based in Altenstadt, Germany, sells toilet
paper, paper towels and disposal systems for bathrooms. The
hygienic paper brand is often seen in bathrooms at service areas
along Germany’s autobahns.  In February 2005, Deutsche Bank advised Ille Papier to buy
the CMS swap based on its expectation the spread would widen and
the customer would make money. The lender hedged its risks on
the deal through options.  The spread narrowed in the second half of 2005 and Ille
Papier lost money. The company and Deutsche Bank agreed in 2007
to terminate the contract for a payment Ille Papier now seeks to
recover. The bank won dismissal of the suit in lower courts.  The German city of Pforzheim filed an action against
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in December over 56 million euros in
losses, making claims similar to those in the top court suit.  Deutsche Bank won a majority of decisions on the swaps
issue in German state appeals courts while a minority held the
lender violated its duties to customers when selling the swaps
and ruled, at least in part, against the bank.  The case is BGH, XI ZR 33/10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Karlsruhe via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 