-- 
Discover Beats Estimates on Record Profit, Increases Dividend

-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-03-23T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/discover-beats-estimates-on-declining-defaults-boosts-payout-shares-gain.html
Discover Financial Services (DFS) , the
payments network whose stock outperformed three larger rivals in
the past year, increased its dividend after reporting a record
fiscal first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Net income for the three months ended Feb. 28 was $465
million, or 84 cents a share, compared with a loss of $104
million, or 22 cents, in the same period a year earlier, the
Riverwoods, Illinois-based company said yesterday in a
statement. The average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was 60 cents.  Discover is benefiting from a rebound in its core card-
lending business as write-offs for loans deemed uncollectible
fell to 5.79 percent in February from 9.11 percent a year
earlier, the company said in regulatory filings. Last week,
Moody’s Investors Service raised its outlook for the industry to
“stable” from “negative.” The quarterly dividend was
increased to 6 cents a share, from 2 cents.  “Industry asset quality has rebounded in the past year,
with delinquencies and charge-offs declining,” Curt Beaudouin,
a Moody’s analyst, said in a March 17 report. “We expect this
trend to continue in 2011.”  Discover advanced 2.2 percent in extended trading yesterday
after closing at $22.25 on the  New York  Stock Exchange. The
shares have gained 45 percent in the past year.  Visa, MasterCard  Chief Executive Officer David Nelms, 50, is expanding
Discover beyond its core credit-card business by increasing the
firm’s student-loan portfolio and broadening its payment-
processing network to compete worldwide with San Francisco-based
 Visa Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and  American Express Co. (AXP)  Discover’s  Card sales volume rose 7 percent on an annualized basis to
$24 billion, Discover said in the statement. Credit-card loans
fell 3 percent to $44.3 billion. Payments volume climbed 21
percent to a record $43.2 billion during the quarter, driven by
a 29 percent increase in processed transactions on the company’s
Pulse debit network, according to the statement.  Revenue advanced to $1.73 billion from $1.69 billion a year
earlier. The company released $271 million from an account to
cover soured loans, compared with a $305 million increase in
reserves in the first quarter of 2010, the company said.  In January, Discover completed its acquisition of  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ’s Student Loan Corp. in a $600 million deal that makes it
the third-biggest U.S. provider of private  student loans . The
deal included the purchase of the studentloan.com website, Nelms
said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Mobile Payments  “It’s one of the first things that will come up” during
an Internet search, Nelms said. “That will allow us to really
accelerate our growth in this space.”  Discover’s pretax income during the first quarter included
$30 million related to Student Loan Corp., the company said.  In November, three of the largest U.S. mobile carriers led
by  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless  announced a venture that will
work with Discover to let people make purchases with
smartphones. The partnership may help Discover capture a share
of the U.S. mobile-payments market as it competes with Visa,
MasterCard, AmEx and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal.  Visa, the world’s biggest payments network, has dropped 20
percent in the past year, and MasterCard, based in Purchase, New
York, declined 0.2 percent. New York-based AmEx, the third-
biggest network and the biggest credit-card issuer by purchases,
has advanced 8.9 percent.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  