-- 
Doosan Power in Pact With Scotland for a $278 Million Offshore Wind Base

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-03-22T17:29:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/doosan-power-in-pact-with-scotland-for-a-278-million-offshore-wind-base.html
Doosan Power Systems Ltd., the
clean energy unit of  South Korea ’s biggest power equipment
maker, aims to invest as much as 170 million pounds ($278
million) in an offshore wind base in Scotland.  The Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Ltd. subsidiary
agreed to develop a renewable research and development base at
its Westway site near Glasgow, the Scottish government said
today. Doosan may also locate its wind turbine assembly and
manufacturing facilities in Scotland though that is subject to
further discussions, the government said in a statement.  “We have already had investments by Mitsubishi Power
Systems  Europe  Ltd. and Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA and now
Doosan,” First Minister of Scotland  Alex Salmond  said by phone.
“We want to capture in Scotland the R&D of all the big offshore
wind turbine players.” Scotland is hoping to create a low-
carbon industry to boost its economy and derive 80 percent of
its power from clean sources by 2020, up from 27 percent now.  Under Doosan’s plans, agreed to in a memorandum of
understanding with the government agency Scottish Enterprise,
the company could establish an assembly facility for a 6-
megawatt offshore turbine by 2015, Mark Garnett, director of
wind power at Doosan, said in an e-mail.  Doosan could create 700 jobs directly and 1,000 more in the
supply chain, the government said. In addition, 120 also will be
created at  Steel Engineering Ltd. , a maker of equipment for
offshore wind, wave and tidal power. That Westway-based company
received a 1.8 million-pound grant through Scottish Enterprise
to help fund its expansion.  Mitsubishi, Gamesa  The Doosan investment, to be made over 10 years, follows
commitments by Mitsubishi to invest as much as 100 million
pounds in an Edinburgh turbine research center and plans by
 Spain ’s biggest turbine maker Gamesa to locate facilities in
Dundee and Glasgow.  Turbine makers are seeking to tap demand in Europe from
2015, “when the U.K. and European offshore wind market is
expected to gain significant momentum,” Garnett said. The U.K.
awarded licenses to developers for 32 gigawatts of offshore wind
in January 2010 while  Germany  is targeting 10 gigawatts in the
next decade. France is seeking to install 6 gigawatts by 2020
from none now.  Scotland, which accounts for almost 40 percent of offshore
wind, wave and tidal resource in the U.K., is Doosan’s “favored
location” for building turbine prototypes and manufacturing,
according to the statement.  Job Creation ?  Production of the 6-megawatt prototypes and demonstration
turbines would be undertaken at Doosan’s existing manufacturing
site in Westway in Renfrew, Garnett said. The exact location of
the main assembly facility will be announced shortly, he said.  Offshore wind could spark 20,000 jobs directly plus a
further 20,000 in the supply chain in Scotland by 2020, Salmond
said. “The investments so far put us into the low thousands of
jobs, perhaps 1,500 to 1,600,” he said.  The news confirms “the potential business opportunities in
renewable energy in  Scotland  for both homegrown and
international companies,” Niall Stuart, chief executive of
lobby group Scottish Renewables, said in an e-mailed statement  Doosan shares slipped 0.9 percent to 64,400 won on the
Korea Exchange, bringing their decline this year to 25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  