-- 
Dougan Embraces CoCos Gruebel Deems ‘Dangerous’ in Swiss Clash on Capital

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-03-22T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/dougan-embraces-cocos-gruebel-deems-dangerous-in-swiss-clash-on-capital.html
Oswald Gruebel  and Brady Dougan,
once colleagues and now heads of rival  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , are clashing over contingent convertible bonds -- a
dispute that reveals how much UBS stands to lose.  Swiss regulators, spooked by the near collapse of UBS in
2008, may require the two Zurich-based lenders to sell the
securities, known as CoCos, to avoid future bailouts. Gruebel
has called the debt, which turns into equity when a bank’s
capital drops below a certain level, “dangerous.” Dougan, who
runs the firm Gruebel once led, sold the first CoCos last month.  Credit Suisse is using the bonds to replace so-called
hybrid debt, which will no longer count as the highest-quality
capital under rules approved last year by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision . For UBS, which has less such debt to
replace, CoCos may prove a more expensive way to fatten capital
cushions.  Simon Maughan , co-head of European equities at MF
Global Ltd., estimated that selling the securities may shave 10
percent from UBS’s annual net income after 2012.  “The more hybrid you’ve got, the happier you are to
embrace CoCos because the hybrid isn’t going to count under
Basel III anyway,” said Maughan, who is based in London and has
a “sell” rating on UBS and Credit Suisse. “That’s why they
have a difference of opinion, and that’s why the impact on
Credit Suisse is much, much smaller.”  Tougher Rules  The disagreement over CoCos may play out around the world
if the Basel committee approves the use of CoCos to fulfill
added capital requirements for systemically important financial
firms and governments force lenders to sell them. Banks globally
may need to issue $1 trillion of CoCos over the next decade to
meet tougher rules designed to prevent another crisis,  Standard
& Poor’s  said in December.  The Swiss government proposed changes to banking laws that
would require UBS and Credit Suisse to hold capital equal to at
least 19 percent of their assets, weighted according to risk. Of
that, CoCos would amount to as much as 9 percentage points, or
almost half. Swiss officials want to avoid bank rescues after
propping up UBS, the nation’s biggest lender.  Under the proposal, the two banks would be required to sell
CoCos amounting to 6 percent of their risk-weighted assets. The
bonds would convert to shares if the banks’ common equity ratio
falls below 5 percent. The objective of these so-called low-
trigger CoCos is to provide enough capital to keep a lender
afloat while the businesses most important to  Switzerland  are
preserved and the rest are wound down.  “Politicians don’t care about banks having the highest
returns on equity,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst
at Kepler Capital Markets. “They care about not having to pay
for the banks’ gambling with taxpayers’ money.”  ‘Sensible’ Approach?  The Swiss proposals are tougher than the Basel committee’s
rules, known as Basel III, which called for a common equity
ratio of 7 percent and total capital of 10.5 percent. They also
go beyond recommendations made by a Swiss committee that
included bank representatives, Gruebel has said. Both the global
rules and the local ones will be phased in by 2019.  The consultation period for Switzerland’s  draft law  ends
today, and after that the government will send it to parliament
for approval. UBS is pushing for amendments to allow
alternatives to CoCos, as well as flexibility on  capital
requirements  until it’s clear what other countries will demand
of their biggest banks.  “The question is whether the rush in Switzerland is
sensible,” Gruebel, 67, told the Swiss magazine  Bilanz  this
month. If Swiss capital requirements make the bank
uncompetitive, UBS may have to consider moving businesses and
the holding company abroad, capitalizing units according to
less-strict local rules and even doing initial public offerings
of subsidiaries, he said.  ‘Not So Uncompetitive’  Dougan, 51, who became CEO of Credit Suisse in May 2007
when Gruebel retired, said at the bank’s annual earnings
conference last month that selling CoCos probably won’t result
in additional costs for the company because they would replace
other non-equity capital. A requirement for common equity of 10
percent may be “not so uncompetitive” if other countries
impose surcharges on their largest banks, he said.  Dougan cut Credit Suisse’s target for return on equity, a
measure of profitability, to more than 15 percent from more than
18 percent last month, blaming stricter regulatory requirements.
Gruebel said he won’t change the company’s goals until the fog
lifts over regulation. In 2009, he set a target for return on
equity of 15 percent to 20 percent and aims to double pretax
earnings to 15 billion francs ($16.6 billion) by 2014.  ‘Old-Fashioned Trader’  “Brady is the classic process-driven U.S. banker, who is
very good at getting the most out of a franchise,” said
 Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA.
“But the big question is has he got plan B? Whereas Ossie is an
old-fashioned trader and doesn’t only have plan B, he has plan
C, D, E and F, none of which might be palatable to certain
people. But the view is that you have to keep moving, you can’t
stay still.”  Gruebel, who joined Credit Suisse as a trader in 1970,
spent 37 years at the bank, Switzerland’s second largest. Under
his leadership, and later under Dougan, Credit Suisse reduced
its holdings of U.S. subprime-mortgage debt before the credit
crunch, limiting losses during the financial crisis and avoiding
having to take state aid.  Emerging from retirement in February 2009, Gruebel agreed
to lead UBS, which had piled up more than $50 billion of losses.
The bank posted its first annual profit since 2006 last year,
earning net income of 7.5 billion francs, compared with profit
of 5.1 billion francs at Credit Suisse.  Capital Gap  Gruebel stirred an international debate about CoCos by
describing the bonds, which have never been tested in a crisis,
as “very dangerous” in an interview with the Financial Times
this month. He argued that if a bank’s capital fell close to the
level that would trigger a conversion of CoCos into equity,
investors would abandon the stock, accelerating its decline and
panicking customers and clients.  Under current rules, banks can count hybrid debt --
perpetual securities that can only be redeemed with regulatory
approval -- as tier 1 capital. Rule-makers decided last year to
phase out counting most hybrid debt as capital starting in 2013
because it failed to provide a buffer for losses in the
financial meltdown.  The tier 1 ratios of UBS and Credit Suisse were 17.8
percent and 17.2 percent at the end of 2010, under existing
rules. Under the new regulations, the gap between the two banks
will widen. About 29 percent of Credit Suisse’s tier 1 capital
is currently made up of hybrid debt compared with less than 14
percent at UBS, according to company reports.  Hybrid Debt  UBS may reach a common equity tier 1 ratio of 13.8 percent
in 2012 under Basel III, higher than 33 other European and U.S.
banks, according to estimates by JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts
led by Kian Abouhossein. For Credit Suisse, that ratio may stand
at 8.6 percent, the analysis showed.  While UBS sold new shares worth almost 20 billion francs
and mandatory convertible bonds to raise funds during the credit
crisis, Credit Suisse fulfilled most of its capital needs by
selling hybrid bonds. Credit Suisse had 11.1 billion francs of
tier 1 hybrid debt outstanding at the end of last year, up from
2.2 billion francs at the end of 2006, according to company
reports. At UBS, the amount fell to 4.9 billion francs from 5.6
billion francs in the same period.  “Credit Suisse issued quite a bit of hybrids in the fourth
quarter of 2008 at shocking prices,” said Dirk Hoffmann- Becking, a London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  Higher Cost  Credit Suisse can now replace those securities with CoCos.
The bank last month agreed to exchange $3.5 billion of 11
percent and 2.5 billion francs of 10 percent tier 1 hybrid notes
sold to  Qatar  and  Saudi Arabia  in October 2008 for contingent
convertible bonds. These CoCos will be issued no earlier than
October 2013, the first call date on the old tier 1 notes, and
will have lower coupons than the previous bonds: 9.5 percent for
the securities denominated in dollars and 9 percent for the
franc issue.  UBS last sold hybrid tier 1 bonds in April 2008, when it
offered 995 million euros of perpetual bonds with an 8.84
percent coupon until the first call date. The coupons on the
remaining outstanding hybrid tier 1 bonds now range from 4.28
percent to 7.25 percent, which means the bank may have to pay
more to replace these notes with contingent convertibles.  Gruebel has said UBS intends to boost capital by retaining
earnings and not paying dividends “for some time.” The bank
has “no intention” and sees “no need” to sell CoCo bonds, he
said in the Bilanz interview.  Less Dilution  “If you build up capital by not paying any dividends, from
a profit-and-loss perspective that’s cheaper than paying people
9.5 percent every year,” said Hoffmann-Becking, who has an
“outperform” rating on UBS. “From a shareholders’
perspective, that’s obviously not a clever plan.”  Gruebel says shareholders will benefit. Retaining all
earnings to build reserves faster is a “safer” plan than the
potential risk of having to sell shares again in an emergency,
he said at the company’s investor day in  London  last November.  “We are probably a little bit influenced by the absolutely
fantastic dilution the company went through in the last few
years where we virtually doubled the number of shares
outstanding,” he told analysts and investors.  CoCos would only add to the risk of dilution, according to
Gruebel. He favors alternatives, such as selling bonds under the
condition that only 50 percent would be repaid if certain
capital levels are triggered.  “For Credit Suisse, when the hybrid capital runs off,
something has to be issued, and it’s largely indifferent whether
it’s more hybrid bonds or CoCos,” said MF Global’s Maughan.
“So they just did CoCos and said, ‘Look, we’re so compliant,
aren’t we great?’ UBS doesn’t have the same amount of stuff
running off, so if it’s forced to raise CoCos, they would come
on top of its existing capital and it would be way over-
capitalized.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 