-- 
Drugmaker Investor Lawsuits Backed by U.S. Supreme Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-03-22T22:02:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/drugmaker-investor-lawsuits-backed-by-u-s-supreme-court-4-.html
The U.S. Supreme Court, allowing a
suit over a withdrawn cold remedy, gave shareholders more power
to sue drugmakers and biotechnology companies for failing to
reveal indications about dangerous side effects.  The justices unanimously said  Matrixx Initiatives Inc. (MTXX) ,
acquired in February by HIG Capital LLC, must defend against
accusations that it should have told investors that some users
of the Zicam nasal spray and gel had lost their sense of smell.  Matrixx argued that drugmakers need not say anything until
reports of side effects become statistically significant. The
high court today rejected that argument, saying that less
definitive evidence in some cases is enough to require
disclosure under the federal securities laws.  “Given that medical professionals and regulators act on
the basis of evidence of causation that is not statistically
significant, it stands to reason that in certain cases
reasonable investors would as well,” Justice  Sonia Sotomayor 
 wrote  for the court.  The court also ruled against business groups in a second
case today. The justices  ruled  6-2 that, under a federal labor
law, employers can’t retaliate against employers who orally
complain about workplace conditions.  Matrixx stopped selling its Zicam nasal spray and gel in
June 2009 after the  Food and Drug Administration  warned
consumers the treatments may cause a loss of smell, a condition
known as anosmia. Matrixx says it disagrees with the FDA’s
findings. Other versions of the cold remedy remain on the
market.  Link Alleged  Sotomayor limited the impact of the ruling by saying it
“does not mean that pharmaceutical manufacturers must disclose
all reports of adverse events.” She called those reports
“daily events” in the industry.  In Matrixx’s case, the company allegedly “received
information that plausibly indicated a reliable causal link
between Zicam and anosmia,” Sotomayor wrote. She pointed to
allegations that three medical professionals and researchers had
compiled reports describing more than 10 patients who had lost
their sense of smell after using Zicam.  The suing investors also pointed to lawsuits filed on
behalf of nine people from October 2003 to January 2004.  “The inference that Matrixx acted recklessly (or
intentionally, for that matter) is at least as compelling, if
not more compelling, than the inference that it simply thought
the reports did not indicate anything meaningful about adverse
reactions,” Sotomayor wrote.  Company Confident  A lawyer representing Matrixx said the company is confident
it will be able to refute the allegations when the case returns
to a federal trial court in  Arizona .  “There was certainly no intentional or reckless failure to
disclose any information to the public,” said the lawyer,
Michael Yoder, a partner at  O’Melveny & Myers LLP  in  Newport
Beach ,  California .  The investor suit seeks class-action status on behalf of
people who bought Zicam from Oct. 22, 2003, to Feb. 6, 2004.  The case is Matrixx Initiatives v. Siracusano, 09-1156.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  