-- 
Dumped Milk, Thinning Cows Signal New Threat to Farms Near Fukushima Plant

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a ,   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   J a e   H u r
-- 
2011-03-22T05:42:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/dumped-milk-thinning-cows-signal-new-threat-to-farms-near-fukushima-plant.html
Kanju Kurosawa kept his 50 dairy
cows alive by carting water from a neighboring town after local
supplies were knocked out by the March 11 earthquake.  By the time taps flowed again on March 19, Kurosawa and his
80-year-old father had trucked 12,000 liters (3,100 gallons) for
the herd -- less than half its requirement. Milk output is at
half the pre-quake levels, he said, and what’s produced is
considered unfit for human consumption because of the dairy’s
proximity to the  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s stricken nuclear
power plant, 52 kilometers (32 miles) away.  Concern that radioactive emissions from the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi facility will contaminate food and cause cancer are
prohibiting hundreds of dairy farmers like Kurosawa from selling
their milk. With no compensation, Kurosawa, 53, said he doesn’t
know how long he can continue the 70-year-old family business.  “We don’t know how dairy farmers in Fukushima will
survive,” said Kurosawa, who estimates he’s losing 60,000 yen
to 70,000 yen ($740-$865) a day on his farm in Iino, 235
kilometers north of Tokyo. “I want to stick it out, but I don’t
know how long the radiation impact will last and whether the
spring grass will be contaminated. I can’t continue if I have to
buy all my feed.”  Radiation Contamination  Fukushima supplied about 1.3 percent of Japan’s 2009 annual
milk production of about 7.91 million tons, according to
government statistics. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  asked local
officials to suspend milk shipments from the region’s 567 dairy
farms after random tests found levels of radiation that exceeded
government-prescribed safe levels.  Milk shouldn’t be consumed from the local area until tests
for radioactive iodine have been completed, according to the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  in Vienna. Farmers in
Fukushima have been told to keep their animals in barns and not
to feed them fodder kept outside.  More than half of Kurosawa’s produce would be used in local
schools and supermarkets, with the remainder sold to either
Meiji Holdings Co. or Morinaga Milk Industry Co.  Contaminated milk was linked to more than 6,000 cases of
thyroid cancer in children and adolescents in Belarus, Ukraine
and  Russia  in the two decades following the 1986  Chernobyl 
nuclear disaster in Ukraine. Iodine-131 was the main contributor
to  radiation poisoning , the United Nations Scientific Committee
on the Effects of Atomic Radiation wrote in a  2008 report .  Milk shipments from Fukushima will likely remain suspended
at least until the crisis at the nuclear plant is resolved,
said Mitsuhiro Honda at the milk and dairy products division of
the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.  Contaminated Seawater  Fuel rods at the nuclear plant have been damaged, releasing
five kinds of radioactive material and contaminating seawater
nearby, Tokyo Electric said today.  “Some of the farmers may abandon the business and destroy
their cows, too, as they don’t know how long the shipment
restrictions will continue,” said Saori Kabeya, an official
with Fukushima prefecture’s livestock department.  The affected farmers will be compensated, Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters in Tokyo yesterday.  “Fundamentally, the primary responsibility is on  Tokyo
Electric  as it stems from the nuclear disaster,” Edano said.
“If it can’t compensate fully, the central government will
guarantee them.”  Kurosawa’s last milk delivery was March 12. He had to
borrow a neighbor’s generator to power dairy machinery after
electricity supply was interrupted by the 9.0-magnitude
earthquake. His cows remain stressed by the temblor and
aftershocks, he said.  ‘Head Butt’  “We couldn’t go into to the barn because they would kick
and head butt” after the quake, Kurosawa said. “Cows are like
humans, they get very nervous and worried that such a large
earthquake may come again.”  In Aizu county, about 100 kilometers from the Fukushima
plant, dairy farmer Masahiko Kaneko hasn’t been able to buy
cattle feed for weeks. As his hay and silage stockpiles decline,
so does the milk from his 34-cow herd. Production is down as
much as 20 percent to less than 600 liters a day since the
earthquake.  A March 18 test on Kaneko’s milk showed levels of
radioactive  iodine  measuring 4 becqueral per kilogram -- less
than 2 percent of the government’s prescribed safety limit of
300 Bq/kg.  Japan ’s  Food Safety Commission  is reviewing
acceptable radioactivity levels in food and may set new
standards in a week, it said today.  “I cannot see any light at the end of the tunnel,” Kaneko,
53, said. “My cows are getting thinner and thinner day by
day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in  Singapore  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net . 