-- 
Headless Nude, Pious Killer Drive Fairstein Thriller: Interview

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-03-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/headless-nude-pious-killer-drive-fairstein-thriller-interview.html
Firefighters and police rushed to
the blaze at a Harlem church to find that the burning object was
a decapitated, naked woman. Underneath the body lay a small,
gold Star of David, whose outline had seared into her flesh.  In Linda Fairstein’s 13th crime novel, “Silent Mercy,”
District Attorney Alexandra Cooper must track down a serial
killer with a religious bent.  Fairstein prosecuted rapists and killers as head of the  New
York  District Attorney’s Sex Crimes Unit. She continues to
consult pro bono on cases involving women and violence.  Lundborg: How hard is it to cut someone’s head off?  Fairstein: It depends: You can do a very careful, skillful
decapitation, or you can just take a machete and do it in one
amateur whack.  Lundborg: How enraged do you have to be?  Fairstein: Unlike killing a stranger, the domestics usually
have a lot of rage built up over a long period of time. With
strangulation and stabbing, domestics also have more means and
opportunity for violence.  We now have a lethality assessment to let women know the
likelihood of being killed as the level of violence against them
escalates.  Lundborg: How did you get the idea for this book?  Religious Misogyny  Fairstein: I went to Mount Neboh Baptist Church and noticed
Stars of David and Hebrew lettering in the stained glass
windows. It was fascinating that it had been built as a
synagogue.  New York City  is really a character in the books, and here
it’s religious institutions. I had not expected to get so
involved with the treatment of women in different religions.  Lundborg: Where did your title, “Silent Mercy,” come
from?  Fairstein: I found out about nuns being silenced, when they
want to become priests or talk about abortion.  Lundborg: Does religious misogyny create a climate of
violence against women?  Fairstein: Any kind of bigotry makes acceptable some things
that you wouldn’t otherwise tolerate.  And if a church is anti-women, it’s also anti-gay.  Fight Clubs  Lundborg: Some men feel the church has become too soft and
pink?  Fairstein: There are Pentecostal congregations, mainly in
the south, called “Fight Churches.” They’re designed to get
young men back to religion, so women are not welcome.  There’s a ring, they teach martial arts, and then you fight
for Jesus and literally tear each other apart.  Lundborg: How fringe is this?  Fairstein: The fighting may be fringe, but the Pentecostals
are the largest-growing segment, as people leave conventional
organized religion.  Lundborg: Prejudice is not confined to Christians, of
course.  Fairstein: Orthodoxy allows no privileges for women. Jews
are so intolerant of women, they’re not even allowed to go to
the Wailing Wall in  Jerusalem  wearing a prayer shawl.  Muslims deserve their own book. Within each religion there
is this resistance and a terrible bigotry toward women.  Mariska Hargitay  Lundborg: What do you think of “Law and Order: Special
Victims Unit?”  Fairstein: It’s good the shows shed light on these issues.
It’s fiction, so they solve crimes in under an hour. Some
episodes are dead-on and some are far-fetched.  Mariska Hargitay gets so much mail from victims. “I was
raped when I was 15, and I’ve never been able to talk to anyone
about it. What should I do?”  As a result, she founded the  Joyful Heart Foundation  to
help survivors of sexual assault, where I’m on the board.  Lundborg: What’s your next book about?  Fairstein: It’s a lot lighter. It’s about food and wine,
since Alex’s lover is a French chef. He’s trying to open a
restaurant in New York.  Lundborg: All those nice sharp knives. You’re also still
consulting?  Fairstein: I do a lot of work for victims who can’t get
access to the system all around the country.  My favorite charity is victim advocacy group  Safe Horizon ,
where we opened a child center last year. We’d been trying to
get one in the city since 1977.  Children under 12 who are victims of sexual or physical
violence are taken to this center instead of a police precinct
or an emergency room.  We expected 300 victims the first year, and we got 600,
 Manhattan  only.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 