-- 
Heating Oil Rises to 2-Week High on Escalating Mideast Tensions

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-03-22T19:59:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/heating-oil-rises-to-2-week-high-on-escalating-mideast-tensions.html
Heating oil advanced along with oil
futures on concern that the Libyan war will be protracted and
unrest may spread in the Middle East, disrupting crude supplies.  Futures rose to a two-week high as allied forces expanded
their air campaign over  Libya  to thwart fighters loyal to
 Muammar Qaddafi  and enable rebels to regain control of cities.
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said the intensity of the
military campaign in Libya will ease soon after allied forces
imposed a no-fly zone on Muammar Qaddafi’s regime, enabling
rebels to push out of their eastern Benghazi stronghold.  “The situation in Libya gets more bullish as you look at
it,” said Ray Carbone, president of Paramount Options Inc. in
New York. “There’s confusion among NATO partners as to when and
how this will end. We seem to be moving toward a long drawn-out
war, extending the time Libyan oil will be off the market.”  Heating oil for April delivery gained 2.37 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $3.0762 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Libyan oil production halted by the country’s civil war is
likely to remain suspended the rest of 2011, according to
analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Merrill Lynch
and Barclays Plc. Oil supplies from Africa’s third-largest
producer collapsed from 1.6 million barrels a day in January to
a “trickle” as of last week and may be halted for months
because of international sanctions, the  International Energy
Agency  estimates.  Israeli Shelling  Elsewhere in the region, Israeli soldiers fired tank shells
into the  Gaza Strip  killing four teenagers playing soccer and an
air strike left three other people dead in a separate incident,
said Adham Abu Selmeya, head of  emergency services  at the Gaza
Health Ministry. The Israeli army said in a statement that both
strikes were aimed at Palestinians firing mortar shells and
rockets at  Israel .  “It’s difficult to see where all this is going to end,”
said  James Cordier , portfolio manager at OptionSellers.com in
Tampa,  Florida . “Overnight, we have a third war in Libya and
investors and traders are factoring all this in.”  The Libyan conflict, which began in February in Benghazi,
is the bloodiest in a series of uprisings in the Middle East
this year that ousted the leaders of Egypt and Tunisia. With
Qaddafi still in power and a no-fly zone called for by the
United Nations Security Council now in place, military analysts
have questioned what the coalition will do next.  Brent crude  for May settlement advanced 74 cents to $115.70
a barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange. Nymex April-
delivery crude gained $1.67 to $104 a barrel.  Gasoline for April delivery rose 0.71 cent to settle at
$3.0045 a gallon.  Gasoline Imports  Gasoline’s gains were constrained by speculation that
supplies will increase as U.S. refiners finish spring
maintenance. Imports may swell after  Japan  closed petrochemical
plants that buy European naphtha, an oil product than can be
processed further or converted into gasoline.  European refiners will need alternative markets while
plants remain shut in the wake of Japan’s worst earthquake on
record. Supplies on the U.S. East Coast fell to a six-week low
through March 11 as imports slipped to the lowest level this
year, according to Energy Department data.  “The expectation we may see some additional gasoline
headed this way and the weakness in the cash market as refiners
come out of turnaround and make more gasoline is the double
whammy for the gasoline market right now,” said Tom Knight,
vice president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in
Texarkana,  Texas , which supplies about 80 million gallons of
gasoline and diesel a month.  Spot Market  Gasoline for immediate delivery in  New York  Harbor, the
delivery point for the Nymex contract, traded at a 19-cent
discount to April futures as of 2:29 p.m. in New York, according
to Bloomberg data. That’s the largest discount since May 2008.  U.S. supplies of gasoline probably fell 2 million barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of 14 analysts in a
survey by Bloomberg news. U.S. stockpiles shrank 4.17 million
barrels to 225 million in the week ended March 11, the lowest
level in nine weeks, according to government data.  Inventories of distillates, including heating oil and
diesel probably declined 1.5 million barrels, according to the
survey. The department is scheduled to report last week’s
inventories tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington .  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.2
cent to $3.547 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  