-- 
Egypt ETF Tumbles in New York, GDRs Slide a Day Before Cairo Bourse Opens

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-03-22T20:29:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/egypt-etf-tumbles-in-new-york-gdrs-slide-a-day-before-cairo-bourse-opens.html
Egyptian shares tumbled in New York
and London a day before Cairo’s bourse is scheduled to open for
the first time in almost two months.  The  Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF (EGPT) , a U.S.-listed fund that
holds Egyptian stocks, dropped the most since Jan. 26,
retreating 5.7 percent to $16.65 at 4:27 p.m. in New York.
London-listed global depositary receipts of  Orascom Construction
Industries (ORSD) , Egypt’s biggest publicly traded builder, sank 4.5
percent, while GDRs of  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (CBKD) 
retreated 3.8 percent.  “I’m very worried that we’ll see a huge sell-off,” said
Mohsin Adel, who helps oversee 500 million Egyptian pounds ($84
million) as a managing director at Cairo-based Pioneer Funds.
“I’m hearing from a lot of investors that want to sell tomorrow
then buy back later at cheaper prices to recover their losses.”  Egypt’s government said it will open the bourse tomorrow
after closing it Jan. 27 amid a popular revolt that ended the
30-year rule of former President  Hosni Mubarak . The Egyptian
army, which took over power from Mubarak on Feb. 11, has
struggled to prevent demonstrations even after voters approved a
constitutional referendum on March 19. A fire broke out in an
Interior Ministry building following protests in Cairo today,
injuring eight people.  Egypt’s cabinet said in a statement on March 21 it will
open the stock exchange after taking “all necessary measures”
to “ensure the safe opening and smooth trading of the bourse.”
The cabinet also announced the appointment of Mohamed Abdel
Salam, head of the state-run clearing house, to supervise the
bourse for six months, replacing Khaled Seyam, who resigned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 