-- 
Egyptian Stock Trading Set to Resume With Loss Limits After GDRs Decline

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e ,   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-03-23T07:22:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/egyptian-stock-trading-set-to-resume-with-loss-limits-after-gdrs-decline.html
Egypt plans to resume  stock trading 
after an almost two-month halt as recovering global markets and
rules aimed at limiting declines provide support amid concern
that weeks of protests may have hurt the economy.  Egyptian shares tumbled in  New York  and London yesterday,
with the  Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF (EGPT) , a U.S.-listed fund that
holds Egyptian stocks, retreating 5.7 percent and London-listed
global depositary receipts of Orascom Construction Industries,
the country’s biggest publicly traded builder, down 4.5 percent.
The exchange won’t allow daily share moves to exceed 10 percent.  Analysts downgraded 10 of the 30 companies on the benchmark
EGX 30 Index since the end of January and the government
forecast economic growth will slow following the riots that led
to the fall of former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s regime. Stocks
may be bolstered by a rally in global markets that has continued
amid unrest in the Middle East and  Japan ’s worst earthquake on
record. Investors have also been encouraged by constitutional
changes in  Egypt  to allow presidential elections by year-end.  “While there have been positive developments on the
political side, the protests in Egypt did take a toll on the
economy,” said Yong Wei Lee, who helps oversee about $1.2
billion as a senior  fund manager  at Emirates NBD Asset
Management in Dubai. “It’s too early to consider bargain
hunting. The Egyptian market will remain volatile for a while.”  Worst Performer  The bourse, North Africa’s second-largest after  Morocco  by
market value, is set to resume trading two days before a
deadline that could have led to its removal from the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. Trading was suspended after the market
closed Jan. 27 as protests that led to the ouster of Mubarak
grew.  The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  became the world’s worst-performing gauge
this year after plunging 16 percent in the week the market
closed, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
rose 15 percent last year and 35 percent in 2009.  During the closure, the exchange adopted rules that lower
the cash reserve requirement for brokerages to 5 percent of
their capital from 10 percent and reduced the trading session by
one hour to three. Prime Minister Essam Sharaf allowed
regulators to ease rules on margin calls and to tap as much as
30 percent of an 850 million Egyptian-pound ($143 million) fund
to help support the market.  The “strong measures from the stock exchange” may help
buoy shares, and the passage of the referendum allowing for
elections creates more political transparency, said Mark Rorison, director of research at Cairo-based CI Capital, which
manages 10 billion pounds in Egyptian assets.  “Downward pressure” may come from investors “who have
been locked in for over a month,” he said.  Delayed Opening  The bourse delayed the opening several times, pressured by
individual investors concerned that a premature resumption of
trading could wipe out their holdings.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index climbed four of the past five trading
days as investors bet global economic growth will more than make
up for Japan’s worst disaster since World War II, rising
commodity prices and uprisings throughout the Middle East and
North Africa. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index was little changed
after gaining 2.6 percent in the previous three days.  “They have picked a good day to reopen,” said Paul Cooper, Dubai-based managing director at Sarasin-Alpen &
Partners Ltd., which oversees more than $500 million in the
Middle East. “Given the turmoil elsewhere in the region and in
Japan recently, sentiment could have been a whole lot worse.”  Prime Minister Sharaf, Orascom Telecom Holding SAE
Chairman, billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , and pop singer Mohamed
Mounir have appeared in commercials asking Egyptians to support
the stock market and the economy.  ‘Important Role’  “I, like most people in Egypt, do not know much about the
bourse,”  Mounir  says in the advertisement. “But I found out
that the bourse has an important role in the Egyptian economy.
What is being asked of all of us, by any means, is to support
the bourse for a more beautiful Egypt, better Egypt, stronger
Egypt.”  The cost of protecting Egyptian government debt against
default has dropped 23 basis points since last week, or 0.23
percentage point, to 353.2 yesterday, according to CMA prices in
 London . The contracts climbed to as high as 442.3 on Jan. 31.
The yield on Egypt’s 10-year dollar bond fell for a sixth day to
6.64 percent the lowest in a more than a month, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Oil Prices   The uprising that forced Mubarak to resign Feb. 11 was
inspired by a revolt that had brought down the president of
 Tunisia  in January and later spread to countries including
Yemen, Bahrain,  Algeria , Oman. In  Libya , which shares a border
with Egypt, fighting between  Muammar Qaddafi  and rebels who want
to end his four-decade rule prompted the  United Nations  to
impose a no-fly zone over the country that has been enforced by
allied forces’ bombing of military targets.  The unrest in the Middle East has helped push oil prices
7.2 percent higher this month to $104 a barrel yesterday. Stocks
in the Persian Gulf tracked by the  Bloomberg GCC 200 index (BGCC200)  have
climbed 4.6 percent during the same period.  ’Panic Selling’  Cairo-based Orascom Construction Industries, whose GDRs
trade at a discount of 8.4 percent to its local shares, was cut
to “buy” from “strong buy” at CI Capital March 9. EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE, the country’s biggest investment bank, was lowered
to “neutral” from “overweight” at HSBC Holdings Plc on Feb.
18. The GDRs closed at $7.51, leaving them at a discount of 15
percent to the Cairo-listed shares.  Orascom Telecom GDRs have gained 2.4 percent this month to
$3.15. The merger between its parent Wind Telecom SpA of  Rome 
and VimpelCom Ltd., based in Amsterdam, to create the world’s
sixth-biggest mobile operator may be completed within weeks,
Wind Chief Executive Officer Khaled Bichara said in a March 17
interview.  “Uncertainty and panic selling always create
opportunities. I don’t expect Egypt’s market to be different,
but wouldn’t rush to buy anything at the opening,” said Fadi Al
Said, a Dubai-based senior investment manager at ING Investment
Management, which oversees about $518 billion worldwide. “I
would wait until the selling momentum fades and then look for
the jewels.” About 11 percent of Al Said’s ING L Invest -Middle
East & North Africa fund is invested in the North African
country.  Mubarak Links  Telecom Egypt, the largest fixed-line telephone company in
the Middle East and 80 percent government-owned, has dropped 16
percent in London trading since the bourse was shut. Commercial
International Bank’s London shares have tumbled 19 percent.  Companies whose executives have been linked to the Mubarak
regime or those facing legal investigations will likely suffer,
said Khaled Masri, head of brokerage at Rasmala Investment Bank
Ltd. in Dubai.“The knee-jerk reaction in the market in our view
will be to punish most of the stocks that are seen to be
politically tainted given some of the ongoing corruption
investigations,” he said.  Growth Outlook  Ahmed Ezz, chairman of Egypt’s biggest steel producer Ezz
Steel, is on trial for corruption charges. Yassin Mansour,
chairman and chief executive officer of real-estate developer
Palm Hills Developments SAE, has also been referred to court.
Both men have denied any wrongdoing.  Palm Hills, which develops luxury residential compounds,
was cut to “neutral” from “buy” on Feb. 15 at EFG-Hermes,
which also lowered Ezz Steel to “sell” from “neutral.”  Finance Minister Samir Radwan said in a telephone interview
on Feb. 12 that economic growth may slow to 4 percent in the
fiscal year through June from an earlier estimate of 6 percent.  The planned opening of the stock exchange makes its removal
from the MSCI Emerging Markets Index less likely, said Frank Nielsen, executive director for equity and applied research at
MSCI Inc. The scheduled opening day falls on the 38th business
day since its closure. If the market is closed 40 business days
or more, MSCI Inc. may begin talks to determine whether to
remove it from the company’s emerging markets index.  “If the stock exchange opens on Wednesday that will be
great news,” Nielsen said in an interview March 21. “We will
continue to monitor the exchange and depending on the feedback
we receive from our index users, asset management firms, asset
owners, etc., we would make a decision about whether to go on
with a formal consultation or just continue monitoring it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  