-- 
Telekom Austria Won’t Buy in Serbia ‘At Any Price,’ CEO Ametsreiter Says

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-03-22T12:20:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/telekom-austria-won-t-buy-in-serbia-at-any-price-ceo-ametsreiter-says.html
Telekom Austria AG (TKA) ,  Austria ’s
former telephone monopoly, won’t buy Telekom Srbija AD “at any
price,” Chief Executive Officer Hannes Ametsreiter said.  “We know exactly what we are prepared to pay and what we
are not prepared to pay,” Ametsreiter told journalists in
Vienna today. There still are “some open questions,”
Ametsreiter said, declining to comment on details.  The Austrian phone company, which runs mobile networks in
seven east European nations, yesterday placed the sole bid for
Serbia’s 51 percent stake in the national phone company, risking
a rejection as the offer fell short of government demands.  Telekom Austria offered as much as 950 million euros ($1.34
billion) in cash and 450 million euros in committed investments
over the next three years, according to a statement from the
Vienna-based company announcing the conditional offer.  The bid is less than the 1.4 billion euros in cash  Serbia 
said it needs to bolster the economy, trim the budget gap and
steer the Balkan country closer to the European Union. Telekom
Austria acknowledged the bid “does not comply” with Serbia’s
“unconditional minimum price.”  “We wanted to indicate our interest,” Ametsreiter said
today. “We’ve made a fair offer that includes investment in
Serbia.”  Serbia said yesterday that the government’s working group
will take five days to analyze the offer and announce its
decision on March 28. Premier  Mirko Cvetkovic  said today in an
e-mailed statement that his government won’t accept less than
1.4 billion euros it asked for.  Credit Rating  “We believe there would be synergies between Telekom
Austria’s regional operations and within the market,” Hannes Wittig, an analyst at JPMorgan in  London , wrote in a note to
investors. “However these would have to be traded off against
regulatory and political risks which in our view are
structurally somewhat unpredictable.”  Telekom Austria is keeping an eye on maintaining its BBB
rating at Standard & Poor’s and A3 rating at Moody’s Investors
Service and while isn’t planning a capital increase to finance
the deal “we won’t allow this to worsen our rating,”
Ametsreiter said.  Moody’s on Feb. 14 boos Telekom Austria’s outlook to
negative from stable, saying that a “large debt-financed
acquisition” could lead to a “one-notch rating downgrade  over
the next 12-18 months” because of “weaker debt protection
ratios.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  