-- 
Meltdown-or-Not Future for Nuclear Seen in Diminutive Reactors

-- B y   J o h n   L i p p e r t   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-03-22T21:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/meltdown-or-not-future-for-nuclear-seen-in-diminutive-reactors.html
Nuclear engineer  Jose Reyes  jolted
awake at 4:45 a.m. on March 11 when his son called to warn him
that a massive earthquake had unleashed a tsunami that rocked
Japan. Giant waves were heading for the Oregon coast, about an
hour from Reyes’s Corvallis office.  As news poured in during the next 12 hours that the cooling
system at a Tokyo Electric Power Co. nuclear plant had been
damaged, Reyes’s anxiety grew. People were using the words
“potential meltdown” with alarming frequency.  Reyes, 55, who founded NuScale Power Inc. in 2007 to design
a slimmed-down, 45-megawatt reactor, contemplated the blot on
the already beleaguered nuclear industry -- and the prospects
for his nascent company, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in
its May issue.  “We’ve been hard-pressed but not crushed,” he says.
“Stopping the progress being made would be a mistake.”  Convinced that today’s large nuclear projects are burdened
by too much financial risk, NuScale is designing and testing a
60-foot-high (18-meter-high) reactor encased in a thermos-like
metal sheath. It would cost about $200 million and could be used
to light and heat villages, desalinate ocean water or be strung
together side by side to form a midsize power plant -- virtually
free of carbon emissions. With some investors on board, Reyes
plans to ask the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission for a
license in late 2012.  “More and more people see small nuclear as a green
technology,” he says.  Nuclear Revival  Decades after accidents at  Three Mile Island  and  Chernobyl 
poisoned attitudes and the environment, Reyes and a cadre of
scientists, engineers and investors have been betting that
small-scale reactors can spark a nuclear revival.  Hyperion Power Generation Inc. in Santa Fe,  New Mexico , is
working on 25-megawatt, refrigerator-sized designs for $50
million each that could power remote locations or be used in
hospitals and factories. By 2020, Russian nuclear company
Rosatom Corp. expects to sell seven barges equipped with twin
35-megawatt reactors for the Arctic and Africa. In  Argentina ,
the government of President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is
clearing ground in the central grasslands for a 25-megawatt
 prototype  planned for 2014.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder  Bill Gates  is backing a more
powerful, 500-megawatt reactor designed by  TerraPower LLC  in
Bellevue,  Washington . Its  traveling-wave  technology uses
uranium-238 to fuel a reaction in what functions like a 13-foot-
tall candle.  ‘Valuable Offering’  “If it works, it’s hard to think of a more valuable
offering in the energy space,” says Izhar Armony, a partner at
Waltham, Massachusetts-based Charles River Ventures, which
invested in TerraPower.  As improbable as it may sound amid the devastation in
northeastern Japan, the nuclear accident may increase the appeal
of innovative, small-scale reactors, says Chris Gadomski, a
Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst in  San Francisco .  “We’re seeing a knee-jerk reaction saying, ‘get rid of
nuclear,’ but that’s not going to happen in the long run,” he
says. “There is no other good solution if you want to
decarbonize the energy sector. As far as small reactors go,
these events in  Japan  will strengthen their hand as opposed to
weakening it.”  U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu, who won the Nobel Prize
in physics in 1997 for using lasers to  study  atomic particles,
has requested $97 million for small-reactor development in
fiscal 2012, which begins on Oct. 1. Chu said on March 16 that
President Barack Obama’s administration will press ahead with
efforts to expand loan guarantees for new reactors.  Nuclear and Coal  Maurice Gunderson, a partner at San Francisco-based CMEA
Ventures, invested in NuScale four years ago. He predicts he’ll
raise an additional $200 million by June 1, even after the
Japanese disaster.  Anti-nuclear sentiments inflamed by leaking radiation at
the Fukushima plant may subside over time, he says. More
crucial, he says, is that the world has few good options to
replace the  one-seventh  of its electricity that’s produced by
nuclear reactors.  “Powering a society as large as the one we have means
using nuclear power and coal,” he says. “Nothing else we have
at the present time is big enough to do it in a sustained way.
And coal means lopping off mountaintops, air pollution and
mining deaths. It’s tremendously hazardous.”  Burning petroleum spews carbon into the air, and rising
prices ripple through the global economy. From Dec. 17, when
riots erupted in Tunisia and spread to oil-rich nations in the
region, Brent crude for May settlement surged 26 percent to
$115.70 a barrel in  London  on March 22.  No Pumps, External Power  Reyes says his preliminary  data  show that his reactor would
have survived the Japanese earthquake -- and held up under one
that shook the ground even harder. NuScale’s reactor core is
housed inside a vessel that’s 10 times stronger than the one in
Japan, he says, and that’s placed in a pool of water and buried
underground.  More important, his design doesn’t require pumps or
external power to cool the reactor. Fukushima Dai-Ichi reactors,
of which  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  was among the builders, overheated when
power sources failed and pumps couldn’t deliver cooling water.  NuScale’s design relies on so-called  passive safety  systems
that take advantage of natural circulation created by the
heating and cooling of water inside and outside the reactor.
NuScale’s design, which uses about 5 percent of the amount of
fuel of the big models, produces less heat after it’s idled.  “Keep your core covered with liquid -- that’s the rule of
thumb,” Reyes says.  Last Bit of Hope  The accident in Japan is hurting Toshiba. The company’s
shares have dropped 17 percent in the days after the earthquake
and tsunami to 406 yen on March 22. On March 16,  China  suspended
approval of new nuclear projects and said it would conduct
safety inspections of all plants under construction. China has
chosen the  AP1000  from Toshiba’s Westinghouse unit as its
flagship, with the first one set to go online in 2013.  Mycle Schneider, a Paris-based nuclear industry analyst who
has advised the governments of Belgium, France and  Germany  on
atomic energy, says small reactors would have been vulnerable to
the twin forces of Japan’s earthquake and tsunami.  “The industry has lost the last remaining bit of hope,”
he says. Nuclear proponents can’t recover by painting rosy views
of a carbon-free atomic future, Schneider says. “This was a big
one for the nuclear industry,” he says.  Consuming Nuclear Waste  New reactor models will arrive too slowly to make a dent in
global warming, while used fuel stored in pools of water is a
prime terrorist target and safety risk, he says. Permanent waste
disposal solutions mean digging into granite or salt and leaving
radioactive material for thousands of years.  In the face of such dire predictions, nuclear power has
been growing as countries strive to slake mankind’s appetite for
energy.  The world has 441 reactors, including those at Japan’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi facility, with a total of 375,000 megawatts
of capacity, the  United Nations International Atomic Energy
Agency  said in  September 2010 . That provided about 14 percent of
the world’s power last year. Another 60 reactors are in the
works, and output may reach 445,000 megawatts by 2020, the IAEA
says.  By 2025, the world  could add  36 small reactors, each with
400 megawatts of capacity or less, according to the IAEA. Of the
38 reactors of this size operating today, 34 were built before
1990 and use traditional technology rather than new designs.  TerraPower  TerraPower, the company Gates is backing, aims to build a
sodium-cooled reactor by 2020. It would consume spent fuel from
conventional plants and generate less waste of its own,
addressing a problem that has dogged the industry. TerraPower
has spent tens of millions of dollars on research and will need
several billion dollars more for a prototype, CEO John Gilleland
says.  Toshiba  is planning a 10-megawatt model that, if approved,
may supply the Alaskan village of  Galena . Older, larger Toshiba
reactors overheated amid the earthquake when backup systems
failed to keep them cool. Toshiba declined to comment on the
impact of the accident on its small-scale program.  Babcock & Wilcox Co. , Reyes’s main competitor in small
models, has lined up a customer -- a crucial step before seeking
NRC approval for its technology. The  Tennessee Valley Authority ,
a federally owned utility in seven states,  may build  six small
Babcock reactors to provide power for 4,800 Department of Energy
researchers in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, says Andrea Sterdis, TVA
senior manager for nuclear expansion. Terry Johnson, a TVA
spokesman, says it’s too soon to say how the Japanese accident
may affect small-scale reactor development.  Babcock and TMI  Babcock, which supplied boilers for  New York ’s first
subways, also built the reactor for the stricken Three Mile
Island nuclear facility near Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. In 1979,
a commission appointed by U.S. President Jimmy Carter  criticized 
the company for, among other things, failing to notify customers
that the kind of coolant valve that caused the Pennsylvania
accident had already failed nine other times. Babcock declared
bankruptcy in 2000 as a result of legal claims for exposure to
asbestos in its power-generating equipment. The company emerged
from bankruptcy six years later.  Babcock’s new, 125-megawatt reactors would cost about $500
million each and become available as early as 2018, says
Christofer Mowry, CEO of Babcock’s B&W Modular Nuclear Energy
unit. He declined, through a spokesman, to comment on the
Fukushima accident.  ‘Icing on the Cake’  Ben Landy, an analyst at Baltimore-based T. Rowe Price
Group Inc., says that Babcock already builds reactors for the
U.S. Navy and that the company’s boilers and pollution-control
equipment for coal plants are competitive strengths.  “If small reactors become a big market, that’s icing on
the cake,” Landy says.  With 14.4 million shares, T. Rowe Price is Babcock’s
biggest investor. Babcock shares rose 52 percent from Aug. 2,
when the company was spun off from  McDermott International Inc. (MDR) ,
to $35.09 on March 10, the day before the earthquake. The stock
has dropped 9.8 percent since then, to $31.65 on March 22.  Landy says negative publicity over Fukushima may impede
large U.S. reactors already fighting to raise money. Buyers may
view Babcock’s small models as safer, partly because they’re
buried in the ground, he says.  NRC Gears Up  The NRC has been marshalling resources for when
applications for mini-reactors start rolling in, NRC Chairman
Gregory Jaczko says. The commission has 50 people who will
determine whether the models need the same personnel, security
and insurance as big designs and whether operators should pay
similar licensing, disposal and decommissioning fees.  The NRC is familiar with NuScale’s basic design and is
likely to certify it, BNEF’s Gadomski predicts. Hyperion’s 8-
foot-tall models present a tougher security challenge because
they’re intended for remote locations. Common thieves probably
couldn’t steal them, but a rogue government could -- and then
may convert the uranium into weapons, he says.  Even as Republicans in Congress attacked Obama’s energy
plan, they left most nuclear programs intact. After Japan’s
woes, Democrats may be less likely to support the
administration’s nuclear agenda.  The day after the earthquake, Representative Ed Markey, a
Democrat from Massachusetts, called for a moratorium on new
plants in seismically active areas until additional safety
reviews could be completed. Senator Joseph Lieberman of
Connecticut, an independent who heads the Senate’s Homeland
Security Committee, sought a pause until the Japan accident
could be analyzed.  Evaluating Risk  The U.S. nuclear industry is already growing more slowly
than those of China, Russia and  India . Nuclear generating
capacity may  jump  by 77 percent in the Far East, including
China, by 2020 compared with 12 percent in  North America , the
IAEA says. Capacity in Western Europe may drop 24 percent in
that period, the agency says.  Most U.S. utilities still see too much risk.  Constellation
Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  abandoned a five-year quest in October for a
third big reactor in Lusby, Maryland. Chicago-based  Exelon
Corp. (EXC) , the largest U.S. nuclear operator, with 17 reactors, is
reassessing a $3.65 billion plan to raise output at its nuclear
plants because the company expects safety reviews by the NRC,
CEO John Rowe said on March 16. Marilyn Kray, vice president of
nuclear development, says if utilities need power, and can be
convinced that small reactors are cost-effective, they may build
them at existing nuclear or coal sites, which already have
transmission lines and permits.  1,000 Alarms  That thinking meshes with Reyes’s plans for NuScale.  Seated in his office near  Oregon State University , where
two paintings by Austrian artist Friedensreich Hundertwasser
lean, unhung, against the wall, Reyes recalls how living through
the worst U.S. nuclear accident taught him about scale.  He was working as a safety analyst at the NRC during the
partial core meltdown at General Public Utilities Corp.’s Three
Mile Island plant in 1979. He studied how operators of the
Babcock reactor were baffled by 1,000 alarms going off
simultaneously. Today, a plant’s key diagnostics fit on one
computer screen, he says.  “Simplicity matters,” Reyes says.  Reyes began forming his idea for NuScale after he got a DOE
grant to develop reactors for emerging markets. He built a mock
power plant that resembles a 12-foot-tall chimney to
troubleshoot his designs in a four-story garage at Oregon State,
where he’s on leave from his job as a tenured professor. He
decided to commercialize the technology and filed 18 patent
applications.  ‘Right Way to Go’  Reyes, who holds a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering from the
University of Maryland, used similar equipment to convince the
NRC in 2005 that a $6 billion, 1,117-megawatt behemoth designed
by Toshiba’s Westinghouse unit was safe partly because, like
NuScale’s, it relies on passive safety systems. China later
adopted Toshiba’s design for its future reactors.  “After reviewing all these events in Japan, people may
decide that these passive plants might be the right way to go,”
Reyes says.  Reyes had been struggling to raise money even before the
Japanese crisis. His woes worsened in January, when the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filed a  lawsuit  against his
biggest backer, Francisco Illarramendi, claiming that
Illarramendi transferred money among investment accounts without
telling clients.  Worth Billions  Illarramendi, principal owner of Michael Kenwood Group LLC
in Stamford, Connecticut, pleaded guilty in March to what the
SEC  described  as a multiyear Ponzi scheme. He could face up to
70 years in prison, prosecutors say. John Gleason, his attorney,
declined to comment.  In January, when the lawsuit temporarily froze NuScale’s
bank account, CEO Paul Lorenzini fired 30 of 100 employees and
hundreds of contractors and cut pay by as much as 50 percent.  One potential investor, Ray Rothrock, who works in Palo
Alto,  California , for venture firm Venrock Associates, says he
passed on NuScale because no one can predict whether or when the
NRC will approve its design. The Fukushima accident magnifies
the uncertainty, he says.  “This will slow things down, cost money and require the
regulatory people to opine on it,” Rothrock says. If NuScale
passes its regulatory hurdles, he says, the company will be
worth billions of dollars.  Nuclear Batteries  About 1,450 miles (2,333 kilometers) from Reyes’s Oregon
lab, in Santa Fe, Hyperion CEO John Deal has been working on
what he calls “nuclear batteries” that hospitals, remote
communities and oil companies can use for power and heat. Each
reactor is designed to run for eight years before Deal retrieves
it and drops off a new one.  Deal, 47, worked at  Los Alamos National Laboratory , where
he says he got the idea to commercialize small nuclear
technology, as “resident entrepreneur.” By 2020, Hyperion aims
to have a prototype that can operate at 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit
(538 degrees Celsius), 400 degrees hotter than water-cooled
designs. Hyperion’s lead-bismuth model and sodium-cooled
versions from other companies could generate electricity as well
as heat for refining bitumen into crude oil or for warming the
maternity ward of a hospital.  Deal says his “batteries” offer advantages over the
reactors in Japan. They’d spread out power generation rather
than concentrating it; they’d be a fraction the size of
traditional models; and they’d be buried inside reinforced
bunkers designed to withstand earthquakes. Cooling would work by
gravity, without pumps.  ‘Get Out of Berkeley’  “If there is a worst, worst, worst case, all
contamination, if any, should be very local and remain in the
ground inside the vault,” Deal says.  People are likely to accept such security, especially if
lack of power means they don’t have basic necessities such as
clean water, Deal says.  “You have to get out of Berkeley to realize how badly
people need electricity,” he says, referring to the California
college town that has long been a protest hotbed. If the NRC
moves too slowly to license his reactor, Deal says, he’ll build
it overseas.  The planet has 40 years to slice carbon emissions in half
or suffer a  deadly  rise in temperatures, according to the
 International Energy Agency , which advises the governments of 28
countries, including the U.S.  Nuclear proponents say meeting this challenge requires a
cascade of inventions, including reactors that are smaller,
safer and cheaper -- even after the crisis in Japan.  “There is still a need for clean energy and for getting
away from fossil fuels,” Reyes says. “That part of the
equation doesn’t change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lippert in Chicago at 
 jlippert@bloomberg.net 
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net  or
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net  