-- 
Energy Transfer, Regency to Pay $1.93 Billion for LDH Energy

-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-03-22T22:52:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/energy-transfer-regency-to-pay-1-93-billion-for-ldh-energy-2-.html
Energy Transfer Partners LP (ETP) , the
third-largest U.S. pipeline partnership, will join with an
affiliate to buy a pipeline and natural-gas liquids processing
plants in  Texas  for $1.93 billion in cash.  Energy Transfer and  Regency Energy Partners LP (RGNC)  will buy LDH
Energy Asset Holdings LLC, which owns and operates a natural-gas
liquids storage, fractionation and transportation business, the
companies said in a statement.  Energy Transfer will pay $1.35 billion for 70 percent of a
joint venture that will own the assets, and Regency will pay
$578 million for the remaining 30 percent stake. Energy Transfer
Partners will operate the assets, the companies, both based in
Dallas, said in the statement.  The purchase “suits us very well at a time when we really
are trying to move into the transfer of liquids,” Kelcy Warren,
chief executive officer of Energy Transfer, said in an
interview. “We haven’t been a big player in that market; that’s
about to change.”  Energy Transfer and Regency are both controlled by Dallas-
based  Energy Transfer Equity LP. (ETE)  The joint venture will be
controlled by a two-member board with a representative from each
company. The companies said they will initially finance the
purchase with their existing revolving credit lines.  Intrastate Pipeline  The transaction includes the 1,066-mile West Texas
Pipeline, which originates in the West Texas Permian Basin, runs
through the Barnett Shale natural gas production area in North
Texas, and down to the company’s processing and storage plants
around Mont Belvieu, Texas, on the  Gulf coast . LDH also owns
storage and fractionation assets in  Louisiana .  The assets will provide the companies with “consistent,
fee-based revenues,” they said in their joint statement.  LDH’s plant is a good choice because Mont Belvieu is a hub
for natural gas liquids processing and is close to major
chemical plants that use gas liquids as a raw material to make
their products, said James Allred, an analyst with Raymond James
& Associates.  “Certainly it’s very hard to build a natural-gas liquids
processing footprint organically,” said Allred, who rates
Energy Transfer’s units at “market perform” and owns none.  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  is the biggest U.S.
pipeline partnership by market value, followed by  Kinder Morgan
Energy Partners LP. (KMP)  Both are based in Houston.  Energy Transfer will hold a conference call to discuss the
transaction tomorrow at 10 a.m. New York time; Regency will hold
a conference call at 11 a.m.  Editors: Susan Warren,  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  