-- 
Tennessee Fires Men's Basketball Coach Bruce Pearl After Tournament Exit

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-03-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/tennessee-fires-men-s-basketball-coach-bruce-pearl-after-tournament-exit.html
Bruce Pearl was fired as basketball
coach at the University of Tennessee, ending a six-year tenure
that included six trips to the national tournament and an
admission of lying to investigators looking into possible
recruiting violations at the school.  Pearl, 51, had been working without a contract since
September, when he gave the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  misleading and incorrect information about hosting
football recruits during a cookout at his home.  The NCAA at the time notified Tennessee that it had begun
an official investigation into the school’s athletic department.
Tennessee Athletic Director Mike Hamilton said the case has
since “evolved further,” with additional violations that
occurred in September and this month.  “The cumulative effect of the evolution of the
investigation, combined with a number of more recent non-NCAA-
related incidents, have led to a belief that this staff cannot
be viable at Tennessee in the future,” Hamilton said in a
statement. “Therefore, it is in the best interests of our
institution to move in a different direction.”  Hamilton last week told radio station WNML-AM in Knoxville,
Tennessee, that Pearl would be evaluated following the NCAA
tournament. Two days later, the Volunteers (19-15) were routed
by the  University of Michigan  75-45 in their opening game at the
tournament, ending the season with losses in eight of their
final 12 games.  Apology  Hamilton yesterday apologized to Tennessee fans for his
“untimely comments” about Pearl’s status.  “While my comments were never intended for harm, they
became an unneeded distraction to what has already been a year
of distractions,” Hamilton said.  Pearl served an eight-game suspension this season,
forfeited $1.5 million in pay and was banned from off-campus
recruiting after he acknowledged lying to NCAA investigators
about photographs taken with a recruit in 2008. Tennessee also
found that Pearl and his staff violated NCAA rules by making too
many phone calls to recruits.  Pearl had a 145-61 record with the Volunteers, never
failing to reach the NCAA tournament.  Tennessee  reached at least
the regional semifinals three times and made it to the final
eight after the 2009-10 season.  Hamilton said Pearl will be paid about $1 million through
June 2012 and that assistant Houston Fancher will serve as
Tennessee’s interim coach during the search for Pearl’s
replacement. Fancher, 45, spent this past season as the
Volunteers’ coordinator of video scouting after coaching at
Appalachian State from 2000-09 and compiling a 137-136 record.  “This is a great job and will attract a significant number
of interested coaches,” Hamilton said. “We will take an
appropriate amount of time, but will move as swiftly as is
effective to bring this to conclusion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 