-- 
Merck, Sanofi Abandon Animal Health Deal on Regulatory Snags

-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 
2011-03-22T17:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/merck-sanofi-terminate-animal-health-joint-venture-plan.html
Merck & Co. and  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) 
abandoned plans to combine their animal-health businesses after
wrestling with competition regulators for a year over potential
divestitures.  The companies will now keep the Intervet and Merial units
separate at no penalty to either side, they said in a statement
today. Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , and
Paris-based Sanofi remain committed to animal health, they said.  The decision ends a plan to create the world’s biggest
maker of medicines for livestock and pets as Merck and Sanofi
sought stable sources of revenue growth. The drugmakers were to
have been equal owners of the joint venture announced on March
9, 2010. The units had combined sales of $5.5 billion last year.  “It was clear from the beginning that there would be
problems from the regulatory side,” said Oliver Kaemmerer, an
analyst with WestLB AG in  London . Kaemmerer said he believes
Merck and Sanofi when they say they won’t sell their animal-
health assets, but “never say never.”  Merial’s products include a bird-flu vaccine for poultry
and  Frontline , the best-selling flea spray for pets, while
Intervet makes a device to vaccinate pigs without a needle and
the  Safe-Guard  treatment to deworm dogs.  Farm Animals, Pets  “The companies are discontinuing their agreement primarily
because of the increasing complexity of implementing the
proposed transaction, both in terms of the nature and extent of
the anticipated divestitures and the length of time necessary
for the worldwide regulatory review process,” Merck and Sanofi
said in the statement.  Sanofi fell 34 cents, or 0.7 percent, to close at 47.66
euros in Paris trading. Merck rose 13 cents, or 0.4, percent to
$32.52 at 1:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  The two companies had hired Morgan Stanley to arrange the
sale of assets valued at about $1 billion to resolve antitrust
concerns, two people with knowledge of the matter said in
October. Prospective buyers may have included  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , Bayer
AG, Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,
said the people. Potential buyers showed a lot of interest in
the assets, Sanofi Chief Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher said
on a Feb. 9 conference call.  New Partnership  Sanofi and Merck operated Merial as a joint venture for
more than a decade. Sanofi bought out its partner’s stake for $4
billion in 2009, removing an antitrust obstacle to Merck’s
acquisition of Schering-Plough Corp.  Merck and Sanofi agreed a year ago form a new partnership
that combined Merial and the Intervet veterinary unit that Merck
got in the Schering-Plough purchase.  Viehbacher sought to expand in veterinary products in part
because the business wasn’t as vulnerable as  prescription drugs 
to competition from generic products. Growing demand for food
also helped lift sales of products for farm animals, and rising
incomes were leading to increased pet ownership, he said.  “This is one of those sweet spots that provide
sustainability of sales and earnings growth,” Viehbacher said
on the Feb. 9 call.  Both companies remain committed to their animal-health
businesses, Merck and Sanofi said in the joint statement.  Now that Merial will remain wholly owned, its accounting
treatment will change, Sanofi said. Depreciation of the unit’s
plant, property and equipment and amortization of its intangible
assets will be included in Sanofi’s income statement, the
company said in a separate statement. Had those items been
included in earnings last year, Sanofi’s net income would have
been 240 million euros lower, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  