-- 
Metro Declines on Risk to Growth From Middle East Turmoil, Japanese Quake

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-03-22T16:49:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/metro-fourth-quarter-profit-increases-33-as-german-retailer-cuts-spending.html
Metro AG (MEO)  slumped in Frankfurt
trading after  Germany ’s largest retailer said the global
economic growth on which its forecasts depend may be curbed by
Middle Eastern political turmoil and the Japanese earthquake.  Metro dropped 2.37 euros, or 4.7 percent, to 47.74 euros,
the steepest decline since May 6, 2010 and today’s biggest
faller on Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index. (DAX)  Debt crises confronting
European Union countries are also weighing on the economic
outlook, Chief Executive Officer Eckhard Cordes said today at a
press conference in Dusseldorf, Germany.  “Nobody can say at the moment how big the impact of the
 Japan  disaster, the unrest in the Middle East and the weakness
of some southern European countries will be on the global
economy,” Cordes told reporters.  Metro qualified a forecast for growth in 2011 sales and
earnings with the proviso that the global economic recovery
continues. Uprisings in  Libya  and other North African and Middle
Eastern countries, as well as questions about the after-effects
of this month’s Japanese earthquake, have contributed to a
selloff in global stock markets that also prompted postponements
of some European initial public offerings.  “The presented outlook for growth in sales was rather
gloomy given the situation in Japan and the Middle East,” said
Anita Paluch, a sales trader at ETX Capital in  London .  Metro generates most of its sales growth in the emerging
markets of  Asia  and eastern  Europe .  CEO’s Outlook  Adjusted earnings before interest and tax may increase 10
percent in 2011, after gaining 19 percent last year, the company
said. Underlying sales should rise by 4 percent, compared with
Metro’s medium-term forecast of more than 6 percent growth.  Rising inflation in some regions isn’t a major risk for the
company’s business this year, Cordes said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television.  Metro, the owner of the Cash & Carry wholesale brand and
Real supermarket chain, has a target of increasing annual profit
by 1.5 billion euros ($2.1 billion) over four years through a
cost-saving program dubbed Shape 2012. Net income in 2010 more
than doubled to 850 million euros, with fourth-quarter profit
surging 86 percent, and unadjusted Ebit jumped 32 percent to
2.21 billion euros.  ‘Sustainable’ Earnings  The Shape project led to costs of 204 million euros while
contributing 527 million euros to earnings last year, the
Dusseldorf-based company said in its  annual report  released
today. Metro scaled its workforce back by 1.1 percent last year
to an average annual 283,280 employees. The retailer plans to
raise the dividend by 14 percent to 1.35 euros per common share.  Fourth-quarter Ebit at Cash & Carry, Metro’s largest unit,
rose 49 percent to 637 million euros, the company said in a
separate statement. Earnings dropped 30 percent to 250 million
euros at the Media Markt/Saturn electronics division because of
the costs of exiting its French operations. Without the one-time
expenses, operating profit rose 5.2 percent.  Earnings in the quarter fell 0.3 percent at Real, while
rising 26 percent at the Kaufhof department-store chain.  Metro has been searching a buyer for Kaufhof since 2008,
and said in February that it will decide this spring whether to
dispose of Real, which has been losing market share to
competitors including the Aldi and Lidl discount chains.  Real Unit’s ‘Options’  Real’s operation in Germany “isn’t a definite candidate
for disposal any longer” and, among “many options,” Metro may
keep the brand as its profitability improves, Cordes said today.
Metro also isn’t “in a hurry” to sell Kaufhof, which was the
retailer’s most profitable unit last year with an Ebit margin of
3.9 percent of sales, Cordes said. Metro would still prefer to
set up a German department-store alliance with domestic
competitor Karstadt, he said.  Metro said it plans to start wholesale operations in
 Indonesia  in 2012. Cordes said the Media Markt consumer-
electronics chain will start operating in  Norway  this year.  Total investment in 2011 will rise to 2.2 billion euros
from 1.7 billion euros last year. The retailer will add 110
stores compared with an additional 100 in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 