-- 
Mets Say Madoff Trustee Made Charges to Force Accord

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-03-22T21:40:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/mets-say-madoff-trustee-made-charges-to-force-accord.html
(Corrects to show Sterling Stamos didn’t invest in Madoff’s
firm in 16th paragraph of story published yesterday.)  The  New York  Mets owners said the
trustee liquidating the business of convicted fraudster Bernard L. Madoff concocted allegations against them to force a
settlement.  Irving Picard , seeking $1 billion in Ponzi scheme profits
and principal from the baseball team’s owner, Sterling Equities
Inc., sued in New York, accusing the team and the owners of
participating in Madoff’s fraud and ignoring “red flags.”  Asking a judge to dismiss Picard’s suit, the Sterling
partners said yesterday in court papers that they weren’t
professional investors and saw no warning signs. Fred Wilpon,
the Mets chairman, and Saul Katz, the ball club’s president,
described Picard’s accusations as a “work of fiction.”  Picard’s calculation that the Sterling partners and
companies made $300 million in false profit from the  Ponzi
scheme  ignored their Madoff accounts that had net losses,
Sterling said in a filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York.
After losses, Sterling’s fake profit was about $150 million over
25 years, according to the filing.  “Let us be very clear: We did not know that Madoff was
engaged in a fraud,” Katz and Wilpon said yesterday in a
statement. “There were no red flags and we received no
warnings.”  The Mets said in January that they are seeking to sell as
much as 25 percent of the Major League Baseball team to raise
money to settle a Madoff-related lawsuit. Picard’s suit, filed
in December, was kept under seal until last month.  Ruth Madoff   Picard revised the suit on March 18 to add a claim that
Sterling and Madoff disguised a $54 million loan from Madoff as
an investment by his wife, Ruth Madoff, to help Sterling
purchase the Mets’ broadcast rights from Cablevision Systems
Corp. in 2004.  The amended complaint showed the “deep dependency” of
Sterling businesses on the Madoff fraud “and certain knowledge
of indicia of fraud” by the Sterling partners,  David Sheehan ,
Picard’s lawyer, said in a statement.  The partners paid Madoff the next day for the single loan
he had ever advanced to them, making any incorrect documentation
irrelevant, Sterling said in its filing. Sterling’s liquidity
problems when Madoff failed were not a sign of “dependency,”
it said.  The Sterling companies used Madoff accounts like a bank,
for instance, depositing surplus cash when Mets season tickets
were sold in the winter, and withdrawing money later for
expenses, Sterling said.  Applying Pressure  “Just as would have happened if their bank had failed,
when BLMIS failed they faced liquidity problems,” it said,
referring to the Madoff company, Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC.  “Examination of the evidence makes clear the trustee’s
complaint was crafted to pressure the Sterling Partners to pay a
huge settlement,” Sterling said in its statement.  According to Picard, Peter Stamos, who ran the Sterling
Stamos hedge fund and was part of the Mets owners’ inner circle,
“repeatedly warned” that Madoff’s results were “too good to
be true.”  While Stamos evolved “stringent” rules barring his fund
from investing with Madoff, he testified under oath that he
assumed Madoff was “honorable” and called him a “legend” in
the hedge fund industry, Sterling said in its filing.  Required Transparency  Picard said Sterling should have known about the fraud
because Merrill Lynch & Co. warned that the money manager’s firm
wouldn’t satisfy its due diligence tests.  Merrill simply required transparency of all managers,
Sterling said. Sterling Stamos didn’t invest with Madoff.  In a Dec. 15, 2008, e-mail, “Stamos stated that Sterling
Stamos would not invest with Madoff because BLMIS would not pass
Sterling Stamos’ due diligence requirements and that he had
warned Saul Katz and  Fred Wilpon  not to invest,” Picard wrote
in the amended complaint.  Sterling, in its response, said the Merrill “directive was
not aimed at BLMIS, and no inference of wrongdoing is properly
drawn from the change.”  In his suits against Sterling and banks including JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Picard has said long and close contact with Madoff
should have tipped off sophisticated customers and bankers to
the fraud. JPMorgan and Sterling have denied that.  Katz and Wilpon told Picard before he sued that they lacked
investment expertise and relied on Madoff to handle their money,
Sterling’s filing said.  ‘Not My Business’  “I’m not good at it. It’s not my business,” Katz told
Picard, according to the Sterling filing. Wilpon told Picard he
didn’t understand “in any depth” how Madoff made money, the
filing said.  Major financial institutions regularly reviewed Sterling’s
Madoff holdings for collateral, even for margin loans, and as a
source of liquidity, Sterling said.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  was
“comfortable” with Madoff, Sterling said. Travelers Cos., the
insurer, interviewed Madoff personally in the course of due
diligence and afterward wrote Sterling providing “comfort”
about their Madoff investments, the filing said.  Sterling said it didn’t fail to conduct due-diligence
examinations of Madoff, as Picard alleged. Sterling partner
Arthur Friedman tracked trading prices and tried to replicate
Madoff’s so-called split-strike conversion strategy and
concluded the strategy worked, Sterling said.  Bayou Scheme  According to Picard, the Mets owners should have recognized
Madoff’s fraud partly because they had been caught in Bayou
Group LLC’s Ponzi scheme. The warning sign in Bayou was a sudden
shift in investment strategy, while there was no shift at
Madoff, who was consistent, Sterling said.  The Mets have the third-highest value in the major leagues
at $858 million, behind the  New York Yankees  ($1.6 billion) and
 Boston Red Sox  ($870 million), Forbes magazine  said in April .  A sale of 20 percent to 25 percent would be worth $171.6
million to $214.5 million, based on the Forbes figures.  Revising his suit last week, Picard claimed that, after
Madoff’s fraud was disclosed publicly in December 2008, Sterling
Equities restructured its debt to attempt to block the trustee
from recovering assets on behalf of victims. He has said the
Mets used $90 million in Madoff profits to help fund day-to-day
operations.  Picard has no evidence for alleging that Sterling
restructured to block him because it anticipated a lawsuit,
Sterling said in its filling. Sterling partners had more than
$500 million in their Madoff accounts at the time of his
failure, their lawyers said in February.  Mario Cuomo , the former New York governor and father of the
state’s current governor,  Andrew Cuomo , was appointed Feb. 10 to
mediate the dispute between Picard and the Sterling defendants.
The mediation process is under way.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 10:05287,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dex McLuskey in  Dallas  at  at  dmcluskey@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 