-- 
EU's 2020 Climate Goal Safe, Atomic Power Stays, Hedegaard Tells Group

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-22T15:34:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/eu-s-2020-climate-goal-safe-atomic-power-stays-hedegaard-tells-leaders.html
European Union Climate Commissioner
Connie Hedegaard comments about the potential impact on EU
climate goals of renewed concerns in  Europe  over nuclear safety
after  Japan ’s atomic accident. Hedegaard, who spoke to a
business group today in Brussels, also comments on U.S. policy.  The EU is on course to cut  greenhouse gases  by a fifth in
2020 from 1990 levels through laws that tighten caps on power-
plant and factory discharges of carbon dioxide and that impose
national limits on emissions by other industries through 2020.
The 27-nation EU is considering deepening its 2020 reduction
target, including through tighter caps in the emissions-trading
system, or ETS.  On the impact on EU climate policy of renewed nuclear concerns:  “Up to 2020, the implications would probably not be that
strong.”  “Most of the member states at this stage have said they
will carry on with their plans as they were.”  “We have 143 nuclear plants in Europe. It’s not going to
shut down anytime soon.”  “We should just take care not to let panic spread.”  “Of course, that would be a short-term thing for up to
2020 to take out the production from some nuclear plants. That
would then mean that the price in the ETS system would
increase.”  On U.S. federal climate-policy stalemate and state contacts:  “As long as the political situation is as it is in the
U.S., that would be one way around -- to work bilaterally also
with the states.”  Hedegaard said she plans to visit  California  and meet its
governor,  Jerry Brown , during the first week of April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  