-- 
EU Says Reformed Kenyan Courts Could Try Violence Suspects Accused by ICC

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-22T11:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/eu-says-reformed-kenyan-courts-could-try-violence-suspects-accused-by-icc.html
The European Union said it may back
 Kenya ’s bid to hold domestic trials of six officials summoned by
the  International Criminal Court  if the East African nation
carries out promised changes to its judiciary.  “The option exists that if there is a local alternative
that is credible and would provide adequate judicial treatment
of the accusations made against these people, then there is no
need for the ICC to intervene,” Nick Westcott, the union’s
managing director for African relations, told reporters today in
the capital, Nairobi.  The ICC has called on six Kenyans, including Finance
Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , to appear at The Hague-based tribunal
on April 7 and April 8 to respond to allegations they committed
crimes against humanity during violent unrest in 2008 following
a disputed election.  President Mwai Kibaki is campaigning to have the cases
suspended for one year so the country can prepare its legal
system to handle the prosecutions, a position supported by the
 African Union . Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , Kibaki’s partner in
a power-sharing government, some of his political allies and
civil-society organizations oppose a deferral.  Two months of ethnic clashes that followed the December
2007 presidential election killed more than 1,500 people and
drove 300,000 people from their homes.  Calm returned to East Africa’s biggest economy after Kibaki
signed a peace accord with Odinga that included a commitment to
enact a new constitution, which came into force in August,
overhaul the police and courts, and punish the perpetrators.  Lawmakers Block Tribunal  ICC Chief Prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo initiated an
investigation into post-election violence after Kenyan lawmakers
blocked several attempts to create a domestic tribunal.  The new constitution’s implementation was delayed earlier
this year after Kibaki appointed four key state officials
without Odinga’s consent. The dispute was resolved after Kibaki
withdrew the nominations for the posts of attorney-general,
chief justice, director of public prosecutions and budget
controller.  Kibaki signed into law two pieces of legislation to give
the judiciary financial independence and to set up a board to
scrutinize the performance of judges, the president’s office
said yesterday.  “There has been quite a lot of discussion about judicial
reform, perhaps more than action,” Westcott said. “Our one
concern is that the justice should be seen to be done for the
benefit of the Kenyan people, and the culture of impunity to be
brought to an end. How this is done is secondary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 