-- 
European Stocks Drop Amid Concern EU Will Struggle to Tackle Debt Crisis

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-03-22T17:30:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/european-stock-index-futures-rise-sanofi-may-move-after-ending-merck-deal.html
European stocks retreated for the
first time in four days as Irish and Greek bonds sank amid
concern European Union leaders will struggle to solve the
region’s debt crisis.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  led a selloff in Portuguese banks,
falling more than 2.5 percent.  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  sank the most since
2008 amid speculation that Groupe Lactalis’s purchase of a 15
percent stake reduces the chance of rival bids.  Metro AG (MEO)  dropped
4.7 percent after the retailer said the outlook for economic
growth may be curbed, posing a risk to forecasts.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.2 percent to 271.8 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , as more than two stocks fell for
each that gained. The gauge had climbed for three straight days
amid signs that Japan will avoid a nuclear meltdown following
the March 11 earthquake.  Irish, Greek and Portuguese two-year notes fell today and
the cost of debt insurance surged. EU finance chiefs settled
late yesterday on a permanent rescue fund to lend 500 billion
euros ($712 billion) as of 2013, while remaining divided over
how to get the current stopgap fund to its full capacity. Allied
Irish Banks Plc, a government-controlled lender, responded to
market speculation by saying it has “no plans” to miss interest
payments on its bonds.  National benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western
European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slipped 0.4 percent,
 France ’s CAC 40 retreated 0.3 percent and  Germany ’s DAX lost 0.5
percent.  Portuguese Vote  Portugal’s PSI-20 tumbled 1.5 percent amid speculation the
government may collapse tomorrow as parliament votes on budget
cuts that have divided lawmakers.  “The likelihood that the Portuguese government will fall
this week looks high,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist Nicola Mai wrote in a report. “This suggests that the sovereign will
likely access” the European Financial Stability Facility “in the
near term.”  Espirito Santo, Portugal’s biggest publicly traded bank,
dropped 2.6 percent to 3.14 euros.  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) ,
the second-largest, slid 2.5 percent to 63.4 cents.  Banco BPI SA (BPI) 
lost 2.4 percent to 1.33 euros.  U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates today said the
intensity of the military campaign in  Libya  will ease soon after
allied forces began imposing a no-fly zone on Muammar Qaddafi’s
regime over the weekend. In Yemen, President Ali Abdullah Saleh
warned defecting generals that they risk dragging the country
into a “bloody civil war.”  ‘Blind to Reality’  “The situation in the Middle East and North Africa is
worrisome,” said Bruno Ducros, a Paris-based  fund manager  at
CamGestion, which oversees about $4.3 billion in stocks. “We’re
cautious because the market is blind to reality.”  Parmalat dropped 7.1 percent to 2.29 euros. Lactalis said
it will buy out a group of shareholders, removing activist
investors from a battle for control of  Italy ’s biggest dairy
company. The French company agreed to acquire 15.3 percent of
Parmalat owned by Mackenzie Financial Corp., Skagen AS and Zenit
Asset Management AB, boosting its stake to 29 percent.  Metro lost 4.7 percent to 47.74 euros, the biggest decline
since May. Germany’s largest retailer said political turmoil in
the Middle East and  Japan ’s earthquake posed risks to economic
growth, on which the company’s forecasts depend. Debt crises
confronting EU countries are also weighing on the outlook, Chief
Executive Officer Eckhard Cordes said today at a press
conference in Dusseldorf, Germany.  Kuoni, Swatch  Kuoni Reisen AG fell 4 percent to 418.5 Swiss francs after
the travel company said bookings as of March 13 were 7 percent
below the year-earlier level in francs and the same as the year-
earlier level in local currencies.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  advanced 2.2 percent to 395 francs after
watch exports in Switzerland rose 17.8 percent in February,
according to the Federal Customs Offices. Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA, the world’s largest jewelry maker, advanced 3.3
percent to 51.8 francs.  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG)  advanced 3.1 percent to 1,046 pence. The
gold producer in  Russia  said proven and probable ore reserves
increased by 36 percent to 9.1 million ounces of gold following
a successful exploration program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  