-- 
European Soccer Body to Take Control of National Team Broadcasting Rights

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-22T11:15:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/european-soccer-body-to-take-control-of-national-team-broadcasting-rights.html
European soccer’s governing body
today said it will take control of selling broadcast rights for
all competitive national team matches, starting with the
qualification round for Euro 2016 in  France .  The decision, announced at  UEFA’s  35th annual congress in
Paris, ends national federations’ ability to sell televised
matches directly to networks and is likely to boost the incomes
of smaller nations at the expense of larger ones.  Television rights are the largest source of revenue for
most governing bodies. England’s  Football Association  made 575
million pounds ($942 million) over the last four-year cycle from
international and domestic rights to national team games.  “The knock-on effect will be guaranteed revenue for each
association,” UEFA President  Michel Platini  told delegates in
Paris today. “You will therefore all be able to concentrate on
the football, without having to worry what the draws might throw
up and whether their outcome will be favorable, or not, in terms
of TV rights.”  The central control will be on a similar basis to the sale
of rights for the Champions League and Europa League
competitions, where teams receive broadcast revenue from  UEFA 
based on the size of their TV markets.  “We thought it through long and hard and we’ve gotten a
good deal for ourselves,” English F.A. General Secretary Alex
Horne told reporters. “It is higher than our current valuation
of the rights. It is a creative idea and we believe it will
work.”  Media speculation suggested some national associations were
resisting the changes because of the risk of a drop in income.
Platini said all 53 of UEFA’s member countries had signed up to
the new program.  “Thank you also to the big national associations for the
exemplary solidarity they are demonstrating in this regard,” he
said.  Qualification matches for World Cups are also included in
the new sales process. National associations will now only be
able to directly sell rights for exhibition games and club cup
competitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Paris via the London newsroom on +22-
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  