-- 
Euro Drops for Second Day Ahead of EU Summit on Debt, Portugal Budget Vote

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-03-23T10:48:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/euro-holds-decline-versus-dollar-on-concern-europe-debt-crisis-will-linger.html
The franc appreciated before a
Portuguese vote that may push the nation to an early election
and European bailout, boosting demand for the safest assets.  The Swiss currency strengthened versus all of its 16 major
peers as a U.S.-led alliance prepared attacks on Libyan ground
forces. The pound weakened as minutes of the  Bank of England ’s
March 10 meeting showed fewer dissenting policy makers calling
for an interest-rate increase than some investors predicted. The
euro, dollar and yen were little changed versus each other.  “The main thing for Euro-Swiss is the talk around Portugal
and the vote today,” said Geoff Kendrick, head of European
foreign-exchange strategy at Nomura International Plc in  London .
“It is starting to look like they may need to take some money”
from the European bailout fund, he said.  The franc appreciated 0.4 percent to 1.2779 per euro as of
10:40 a.m. in London and strengthened 0.5 percent to 89.94
centimes per dollar. The euro was little changed at $1.4206.  Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  will today face a
vote against his deficit-cutting plan.  Socrates has been attempting to reach a compromise with
opposition parties, “but the opposition does not seem to buy
into this,” Nicola Mai, a London-based economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., wrote in a note to investors. “The likelihood that
the  Portuguese government  will fall this week looks high.”  EU leaders are divided over how to let the euro-region
stopgap fund spend its full capacity of 440 billion euros ($624
billion) to ease credit woes as a March 24-25 summit approaches.
Policy makers have settled on a permanent rescue fund able to
lend 500 billion euros as of 2013.  Pound, BOE  “People are looking at two things this morning:  Portugal 
and the U.K.,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a foreign-exchange strategist
at UBS AG in London. “Maybe Portugal’s austerity budget won’t
go through, and they will go cap-in-hand for a bailout. That
could be weighing on the euro a little bit. Most of the good
news is already priced in.”  The pound fell 0.3 percent to $1.6318 and depreciated 0.2
percent to 86.94 pence per euro. Sterling reached $1.6401
yesterday, the highest since January 2010, after inflation data
surpassed forecasts and spurred bets on interest-rate increases.  Policy makers voted 6-3 to keep rates steady on March 10
and saw “merit in waiting” to assess the effect of higher  oil
prices  on the economy, the Bank of England minutes showed.  “There was some hope that another voter could go for a
rate hike this month,” Nomura’s Kendrick said. “There is some
disappointment that it was still a 6-3 split.”  U.K. Budget,  Japan   Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  presents the
U.K. budget today. He will increase the level at which British
workers begin paying tax and offer support for first-time
homebuyers, a person with knowledge of the plans said. He will
give updated economic forecasts for the nation when he addresses
lawmakers at 12:30 p.m. in London.  Japan’s currency was little changed versus the dollar and
euro. Levels of iodine unsafe for infants were reported in Tokyo
tap water as workers struggled to reconnect power to the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, which was crippled by the
March 11 earthquake and ensuing tsunami. Prime Minister Naoto
Kan today ordered a halt to milk and parsley shipments from a
prefecture between Fukushima and  Tokyo  after tests showed
radiation leaked into the sea and tainted some food.  The yen strengthened less than 0.1 percent to 80.92 per
dollar and was unchanged at 114.95 per euro.  Japan’s government today estimated the damage from the
earthquake and tsunami at as much as 25 trillion yen ($309
billion), almost four times the costs imposed by  Hurricane
Katrina  on the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 