-- 
Cloud-Storage Rivals Evernote, Box.net Aim for Billion-Dollar Valuations

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/evernote-cloud-storage-sites-vie-for-billion-dollar-valuations.html
Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. have
created billion-dollar valuations by connecting the world. A
group of startups aims to do the same by organizing it.  Evernote Corp. , Dropbox Inc. and Box.net let users store
their notes, documents, images and other content in the cloud.
That means the information is kept in remote data centers,
accessible from any Web-connected computer. The companies are
raising venture-capital funding as they set their sights on
initial public offerings or big-money buyouts.  “Twitter and Facebook have done a great job of
representing your social life, but the other half of your life,
your personal life, is where we want to be the signature
brand,” Phil Libin, chief executive officer of  Mountain View ,
California-based Evernote, said in an interview. “Facebook is
for your friends -- Evernote is for you.”  The companies make money by using a so-called freemium
model, offering a free version of their products that can be
upgraded to a paid membership with more perks. As more people
look to access synchronized data from several kinds of devices
-- say, their personal computer, iPad and smartphone -- the
services are potential takeover targets, said  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at Gartner Inc. in  San Jose , California.
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  are searching for
ways to make it easier to sync data, he said.  Doing It Well  “These services are only going to become more important,”
Gartenberg said. “Microsoft has been trying to do
synchronization software, but it only works on limited devices
and limited platforms. I’d be surprised if the larger companies
weren’t looking to buy, and these companies have done it so
well.”  Box.net CEO Aaron Levie expects the industry to be worth
tens of billions of dollars. The risk is that established
technology companies figure out how to serve the market on their
own. Users of Google’s Gmail can already store documents, photos
and other files, and then retrieve them from anywhere. The same
goes for Microsoft’s SharePoint service, which is popular with
business users.  “SharePoint is pretty deeply ensconced in the upper end of
the market,” said Rob Koplowitz, an  analyst  at Forrester
Research Inc. in  Foster City , California.  Evernote, Dropbox and Box.net aim to gain an edge on bigger
rivals by making their software simple and intuitive -- much the
way Twitter and Facebook got a leg up on earlier social-
networking efforts.  Remembering Lyrics  Each of the companies has a different approach to the
market. Evernote is designed to help you remember things,
whether it’s the name of a restaurant, a screen shot of a
website, or a song lyric. Its software lets you write notes and
capture images and then store them in the cloud. More than 70
percent of Evernote’s users, which top 6 million, access the
service from a mobile device.  “Evernote has to be more than a note-taking company,”
said company founder Stepan Pachikov, who doesn’t participate in
day-to-day operations. “Evernote has to allow me not only to
remember everything but to analyze, to make decisions, to make
me smarter.”  Dropbox acts like a virtual hard drive, where users can
save content to the cloud and later access it on their PC, phone
or tablet. Co-founders Drew Houston and Arash Ferdowsi declined
to comment on the company’s plans. They’re focused on product
development and hiring and won’t be able to discuss the business
until the second quarter, said Julie Supan, a spokeswoman for
San Francisco-based Dropbox.  Venture Funding  Box.net, which Levie co-founded with Dylan Smith in 2005,
has more of a business focus, though anyone can use the service.
It has 5 million users and serves 60,000 companies, including
Panasonic Corp. and Dell Inc.  Of the three startups, Box.net has raised the most funding
from venture capitalists, including $48 million announced last
month. Its backers include Meritech Capital Partners, which
invested in Facebook in 2006, and  Andreessen Horowitz , which has
provided funding for Facebook, Twitter, Groupon Inc. and Zynga
Inc.  Palo Alto , California-based Box.net has raised a total of
about $80 million since 2005.  Box.net was the first on the Internet to offer 1 gigabyte
of free storage, said Levie, who got an early investment of
$350,000 from billionaire  Mark Cuban  after asking him to promote
the site on his blog. Even then, Box.net was making money.  “I liked that they were smart, they were generating
revenue and were essentially profitable at such an early
stage,” Cuban said in an e-mail. “And of course, the product
was one that everyone could find value from.”  Takeover Talk?  Evernote has raised $43 million. That includes a $20
million investment in October by  Sequoia Capital  -- a firm that
also invested $6 million in Dropbox in 2008. Dropbox has raised
an additional $1.2 million for a total of $7.2 million.  Other startups in the industry, including SugarSync Inc.,
also have attracted venture funds. SugarSync, based in San
Mateo,  California , focuses on online backup and file synching.  Evernote has turned down many takeover bids, Libin said,
though an acquisition is possible someday.  “An IPO is the goal,” he said. “But if somebody comes
along with a really great acquisition offer, then obviously,
we’re a venture-funded startup, we’ll take it seriously.
Something may happen.”  About 3.7 percent of Evernote’s users pay for premium
subscriptions, which cost $5 a month or $45 a year, Libin said.
Buying a subscription gives users the ability to upload more
content, search PDFs and edit content. Evernote says it makes
about $11 million in annual revenue, and sales are growing about
10 percent each month.  IPO in 2013?  Box.net lets customers use as much as 5 gigabytes of
storage for free, and files can be as large as 25 megabytes. The
company offers a storage package to businesses for $15 a month
and a more expansive product for corporate customers.  “The freemium model is working very well,” said Levie,
26. Revenue will double or triple this year, though it won’t top
$100 million, he said. A Box.net IPO won’t happen until 2013 at
the earliest, Levie said.  Beyond its free plan, Dropbox offers two professional
packages: one for $9.99 a month and another for $19.99.  The advantage of cloud-storage companies may be their
underlying technology, said Charlene Li, founding partner and
technology analyst at the  Altimeter Group  in  San Mateo . They
have shown how to make cloud computing work for consumers,
taking it out of the realm of corporate information-technology
projects, she said.  “People talk about cloud computing as something for IT
departments,” Li said. “Evernote and some of these other
companies make it real for everyday people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  