-- 
Ex-Gang Member Brings Aid to Quake Victims Officials Can’t Reach

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-03-22T08:25:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/ex-gang-member-brings-aid-to-earthquake-victims-officials-can-t-yet-reach.html
Tatsuya Nakazawa, an ex-gang member
who spent three years in a correctional facility, says his
violent past was no preparation for the sight of dead bodies
lodged in trees and houses flattened by  Japan ’s tsunami.  "I’ve experienced every bad thing in my life except murder,
but nothing compares to this," Nakazawa said two days ago as he
drove a Toyota Hiace van loaded with canned food and children’s
clothes in Kesennuma in northeastern Japan. "We want to go where
the government can’t."  Nakazawa’s convoy of five trucks and two vans, which
returned to Tokyo yesterday, is part of a volunteer force
supplementing a government overwhelmed by the biggest natural
disaster in memory. The magnitude-9 quake and tsunami on March
11 wiped out entire towns in the northeast and caused a
radiation leak at a nuclear plant further south.  Mitsuhiro Shimada, the leader of a professional wrestling
 group , arrived on the outskirts of Kesennuma on March 19 and set
up camp today in the corner of a parking lot. His eight-strong
team cooked 3,000 portions of pork soup for survivors and plans
to return to  Tokyo  tomorrow to pick up more supplies.  "The scale of destruction is awful," said Shimada, as he
stirred a large vat of soup next to a van crammed with crates of
vegetables. "There’s no way to know what there was before."  Half-Destroyed  Half of Kesennuma, a port city in Miyagi prefecture about
400 kilometers (248 miles) north of Tokyo with a population of
74,000, was wiped away. About 1,100 people are dead or missing,
according to the latest figures.  More than 15,800 evacuees were spread among 99 temporary
shelters in schools and gymnasiums as of yesterday, according to
the city’s  website . Officials said they are unsure how many
people are staying in their homes, complicating efforts to
distribute food, water and clothing.  Jessica Besecker, an American teaching at a middle school
in the town, survived the tsunami because the school is located
on a hill. When the quake struck she held her arms around two
pupils until the shaking subsided. Staff and students spent the
night of March 11 watching as fires consumed the town below.  "People just stood and watched without speaking," she said
by phone from Kesennuma.  Besecker said she isn’t worried about the threat of
radiation from the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant
almost 200 kilometers to the south. She used to lived in
 Pennsylvania  where the Three Mile Island reactor had a partial
meltdown in 1979, and is accustomed to evacuation drills.  Nakazawa, 31, who runs a painting and decorating business
in Tokyo’s Hachioji district, has made two treks to the quake
zone and is planning a third if he can get information on where
people have no access to aid. On the first trip, when he visited
the Arahama area of Sendai, Miyagi, he said he saw scores of
dead bodies among the debris.  Blankets, Diapers  In Kesennuma, Nakazawa and 13 people with him handed out
more than 300 boxes of jackets, blankets, disposable diapers and
bottled drinks to Michinori Watanabe, a 43-year-old local truck
driver who runs a distribution center from a mud-stained white
tent.  "The government office is not working because this is
beyond its capacity," said Watanabe, who started offering his
services three days after the temblor, which left his home
barely intact. "Supplies are running short. Some people are
freezing at home so we really appreciate the help."  Kimiko Umetsu, 70, took a pair of Nike sneakers from the
pile just before it started to rain. “These are very good to
walk in. I only had sandals when I fled and I am walking back to
my home with these.”  For Nakazawa, who joined a motorcycle gang as a teenager
and was locked up in a juvenile institution in Kawagoe city near
Tokyo for assault and other crimes, the biggest mistake he made
was not doing more research before he set off.  “What we failed to prepare this time was information,”
Nakazawa said on his  blog  yesterday. "There must be places that
are not getting delivered anything at all. Please give us
information.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  