-- 
Ex-Morgan Stanley’s Zain Fancy Sues Och-Ziff Over Firing, Withheld Wages

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-03-22T04:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/ex-morgan-stanley-s-zain-fancy-sues-och-ziff-over-firing-wages.html
Zain Fancy, who joined  Och-Ziff
Capital Management Group LLC (OZM)  from Morgan Stanley in 2008, sued
two units of the New York-based hedge fund manager in Singapore,
claiming they withheld $7.9 million in pay and stock that he was
owed.  Och-Ziff Real Estate Singapore Pte, a venture in which
Fancy was the founding partner and executive managing director,
had no basis for firing him in October and owed him $1 million
in wages and $6.9 million worth of stock, according to Fancy’s
lawsuit filed with the Singapore High Court. A closed hearing is
scheduled for March 25.  Fancy acted in bad faith by not fully disclosing his
involvement in a probe by the  U.S. Department of Justice  and the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission into  alleged corruption
at Morgan Stanley , where he had been head of the bank’s real
estate business in  Asia , according to court papers filed by Och-
Ziff.  “Mr. Fancy’s involvement in pending investigations,
coupled with other factors unrelated to Och-Ziff, have prevented
the parties from raising third-party capital for the venture and
rendered the venture unworkable,” Chief Financial Officer Joel Frank said in a filing. “His actions have resulted in a breach
of trust.”  Fancy didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment. His
lawyer Cavinder Bull from Drew & Napier LLC declined to comment
as did Och-Ziff spokesman Jonathan Gasthalter. SEC spokesman
John Nester and Justice Department spokeswoman  Laura Sweeney 
also declined to comment.  London  Arbitration  Fancy has also started arbitration proceedings against Och-
Ziff in London, claiming breach of a partnership agreement. Och-
Ziff is seeking a court order to halt the Singapore lawsuit in
favor of the London proceedings, a move Fancy called “nothing
more than a tactical ploy,” in a Dec. 10 filing.  Och-Ziff, which had assets under management of $28.7
billion as of March 1, hired Fancy and three other former  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  real estate executives in 2008.  Och-Ziff rose 2.5 percent to $15.72 in New York Stock
Exchange trading. The stock has gained 0.9 percent this year.  Fancy, who was paid $500,000 a year, a $10 million signing
bonus and was entitled to $35 million worth of Och-Ziff
restricted shares, isn’t aware of his status in the
investigation by the U.S. authorities, according to court
papers.  ‘Belated Allegations’  “These belated allegations are nothing more than a
transparent attempt to renege on your clients’ clear contractual
obligations,” Nish Shetty, Fancy’s lawyer at  Clifford Chance ,
said in an e-mail in September to Och-Ziff’s attorney Edwin
Shallert at Debevoise & Plimpton LLP.  Roy Kwok, who reported to Fancy at Morgan Stanley and the
founding partner of Och-Ziff  Hong Kong , has also been contacted
by U.S. authorities in the same probe, the hedge fund manager
said in court papers.  Kwok no longer works at Och-Ziff, said a receptionist at
the firm’s Hong Kong office. She declined to give her name or
provide contact details for Kwok.  “No rational investor would commit capital in the face of
uncertainty over the status of key team members,” Och-Ziff’s
Frank said in a filing. “Any attempt to solicit capital without
full and accurate disclosure as to the status of key members
would have been reckless and perilous.”  The case is Zain Asif Fancy v. Och-Ziff Real Estate
Singapore Anor S787/2010 in the  Singapore  High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  