-- 
Fed’s Pianalto Sees ‘Virtuous Cycle of Growth’ in Economy

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-03-22T12:43:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/fed-s-pianalto-sees-virtuous-cycle-of-growth-in-economy-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said today she sees the  U.S. economy 
continuing to expand at a ‘moderate pace.”  “I am seeing clearer signs of a virtuous cycle of
growth,” Pianalto said in a speech in Akron, Ohio. “Rising
incomes and rising profits are supporting growth in retail sales
and business demand, which in turn fuels more growth in incomes
and profits.”  “I expect the economy to expand at a moderate pace,
slightly above the average growth rate of about 3 percent a
year,” Pianalto said at the University of Akron Economic
Summit.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal Open Market
Committee  are pressing through with their plan to purchase $600
billion in  Treasury securities  to boost the economic recovery,
amid threats to growth such as higher  oil prices , unrest in the
Middle East and earthquakes in  Japan .  “At this point, the recent sharp rise in energy costs
associated with unrest in the Middle East and North Africa is a
key risk. If the spike in oil prices is sustained, it will
potentially slow the pace of GDP growth,” said Pianalto.  “I expect these effects to be transitory,” Pianalto said,
echoing language from the March 15 FOMC meeting where the Fed
said that while rising commodity prices are putting upward
pressure on inflation the effect is likely to be “transitory.”  ‘Close Attention’  The Fed will “pay close attention to the evolution of
inflation and inflation expectations,” the FOMC’s statement
said.  Consumer prices in the U.S. climbed more than forecast in
February, led by the highest food prices since 2008 and rising
fuel costs. The Labor Department’s consumer-price index
increased 0.5 percent, the department said last week in
 Washington . Excluding volatile food and fuel costs, the so-
called core gauge rose 0.2 percent for a second month, also more
than estimated.  “Americans have been hit with sharply higher prices for
food and energy,” said Pianalto. “These price increases have
been especially hard on lower-income households, who spend a
higher proportion of their after-tax income on food and
energy.”  Pianalto said periods of rising food and energy inflation
tend to be balanced by drops in inflation and that “to cause a
lasting rise in inflation, the increases in food or energy
prices have to be large enough and persist long enough that they
spill over and cause sustained increases in a wide array of
other consumer prices.”  ‘Underlying Trend’  “At this point, there is no evidence of broad spillover,”
said Pianalto, adding that she expects the “underlying trend in
broad consumer prices” to rise “only gradually” toward 2
percent by 2013.  Economists lowered their forecasts for growth and raised
their forecasts for inflation in a March 4-10 Bloomberg survey.
Economists expect 3 percent growth in 2011, down from 3.2
percent in the February survey. Inflation for the year will be
2.3 percent. In February, economists predicted 1.9 percent
inflation.  Pianalto, 56, became president of the Cleveland Fed in
2003. She is not a voting member of the FOMC this year and has
never dissented from a FOMC decision. Fed presidents rotate
voting on monetary policy, with Pianalto voting every other
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Akron,  Ohio  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  