-- 
Fed’s Fisher Says No More Stimulus Needed in U.S. After June

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   J e f f r e y   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-22T13:39:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/fed-s-fisher-says-no-more-stimulus-needed-in-u-s-after-june.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President Richard W. Fisher said that no additional monetary
stimulus will be necessary after the central bank completes its
asset purchase program in June.  “No further accommodation is needed after June,”
including by tapering the central bank’s purchases, the regional
bank chief, who votes on monetary policy this year, said in a
speech today in  Frankfurt . “Doing so would only prolong the
injustice that we have inflicted” on savers through inflation,
he said.  The comments by Fisher, who since last year has questioned
the Fed’s $600 billion of Treasury purchases, are the first by a
policy maker since the central bank’s March 15 meeting in
 Washington . Officials at the gathering kept the purchase plan in
place, while saying the  U.S. economy  is on “firmer footing.”
Fisher said he would have voted against the central bank’s
purchase program if he’d had the ability last year.  “I would have voted against QE2, had I had the vote,” the
62-year-old bank president said at the Frankfurt Finance Summit
2011. “We’ve done a bit too much.”  The U.S. recovery faces some hurdles, as housing starts
plunged last month to the lowest level in almost a year and
wholesale prices rose more than forecast, according to economic
data released on March 16.  Still, production at U.S. factories increased for a sixth
month in February, indicating manufacturing will keep stoking
the economy and underscoring the Fed’s view that the expansion
is strengthening, according to a Fed report released March 17.  Stocks Gained  U.S. stocks have gained since the Fed announced its second
round of large-scale asset purchases in November, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rising about 8 percent. The  S&P 500 
increased 1.5 percent yesterday in New York trading to 1,298.38.  Fisher said he is “beginning to see signs of speculative
excess” in the U.S., evidenced in the “fresh flow of money”
into the stock market, a surge in so-called covenant-lite loans
and the re-leveraging by private equity firms.  “There’s lots of liquidity sloshing around the U.S.
financial system,” Fisher said. “We are seeing signs of all
the intoxication that typically takes place when we have the
ambrosia of cheap and readily available capital.”  The central bank purchased $1.7 trillion of mortgage debt
and Treasuries through March 2010 to pull the U.S. out of the
recession. The $600 billion plan is the Fed’s second round of
quantitative easing, also known by economists and investors as
“QE2.”  Policy makers have also left the central bank’s benchmark
federal funds rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008, and pledged for the past two years to keep it
“exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”  ‘Getting Closer’  “The real question now is, ‘When do we stop
accommodation?’” Fisher said to reporters after the speech. “I
think we’re getting closer to that period.”  The jobless rate unexpectedly fell to 8.9 percent in
February, the lowest in almost two years, and employers added
192,000 jobs in a sign of growing confidence in the recovery,
Labor Department figures showed on March 4.  Fisher reiterated his view that Congress must undertake
fiscal reforms to create prosperity in the U.S.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.8 percent in January from a year earlier, matching
December’s year-over-year gain, the lowest in five decades of
record-keeping.  While “overall conditions in the labor market appear to be
improving gradually,” any inflationary effects from increased
commodity costs will be “transitory,” the FOMC said in its
statement last week.  The last time Fisher was a voting member of the FOMC in
2008, he dissented five times in favor of tighter policy. He has
led the Dallas Fed since 2005 and is one of four regional bank
presidents who rotated into voting slots this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  