-- 
Flaherty Increases Pre-Election Spending as Canada Narrows Budget Deficit

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-03-22T21:11:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/flaherty-boosts-pre-election-spending-as-canada-narrows-its-budget-deficit.html
Canada’s Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  pledged to use an improving fiscal outlook to speed
 deficit reduction  while providing C$7.6 billion ($7.7 billion)
in new spending and tax credits in a bid to win support from
opposition lawmakers.  Flaherty released a five-year  fiscal plan  in Ottawa that
projects a C$29.6 billion deficit in the fiscal year that begins
April 1, down from C$40.5 billion in the current year and a
record C$55.6 billion two years ago. A surplus is projected for
the 2015-2016 fiscal year. The plan projects C$95.1 billion in
cumulative deficits through March 2016, C$11.9 billion less than
forecast last October.  “The idea is not to craft a package that suits Party A,
Party B, Party C,” Flaherty told reporters ahead of delivering
his budget in Ottawa today. “The idea is to craft a package
that Canadians can support and that we can legitimately put
before Parliament.”  Canada ’s accelerating economy is fueling
revenue that allowed Flaherty to meet some demands for
additional spending from opposition lawmakers whose support the
governing Conservatives need to stay in power.  Michael Ignatieff , leader of the opposition  Liberal Party ,
Gilles Duceppe, leader of the  Bloc Quebecois , and Jack Layton of
the New Democratic Party -- who together hold a  majority of
seats  in the House of Commons -- all told reporters they won’t
support the fiscal plan.  The government projects it will collect C$19.1 billion more
in revenue through March 2016 than it projected in an October
fiscal update, including the current fiscal year. Revenue is
projected to grow an average 6 percent over the period.  Slow Spending Growth  Spending growth is forecast to slow even with the
additional measures as the government benefits from efforts to
reduce costs of government operations and eliminates tax
loopholes, according to Flaherty’s plan.  A C$2.9 billion savings through March 2016 is expecting
from closing a loophole that allows corporations with
significant interests in partnerships to defer income into
future years. Closing a loophole related to registered
retirement saving plans will generate an additional C$500
million.  The total savings from cost cutting and elimination of
loopholes will be C$6.2 billion over five years. Spending is
projected to grow by an average 1.4 percent through 2016, down
from an average increase of 8.9 percent between 2006 and 2010.  The budget also takes precautionary measures in case the
global economic rebound falters. It uses growth projections
lower than those provided by private sector economists, and
calls for C$35 billion of borrowing beyond what’s needed over
the next three years as a “safeguard” in case capital markets
are disrupted.  Economists surveyed by the department have raised their
2011 growth forecasts to 2.8 percent from 2 percent in October.
Nominal GDP is forecast to grow by 5.8 percent in 2011, up from
an October forecast of 4.6 percent.  Meet Requests  The budget provides C$400 million for a program that
benefits homeowners who carry out energy-saving improvements,
increases an income supplement for low-income seniors, and seeks
to encourage more doctors to work in remote areas by forgiving a
portion of their  student loans , seeking to meet requests by the
opposition  New Democratic Party .  The plan also includes a new C$2,000 tax credit for people
taking care of infirm dependent relatives, similar to a proposal
that has been made by the main opposition Liberal Party.  Recent data have shown Canada’s recovery is accelerating,
even as inflation remains tame. The economy added jobs for a
fifth straight month in February, and expanded at a 3.3 percent
annualized pace in the fourth quarter, the fastest among the
Group of Seven nations.  The government will initiate a one-year “strategic and
operating” review of C$80 billion in program spending with the
objective of generating at least C$4 billion in annual savings
by 2014. Any potential savings from that review won’t be
budgeted, leaving scope for the government to reduce its deficit
further and return to surplus one year earlier, the plan said.  ‘Close to Balance’  “The track is favorable, the projections are prudent,
there is cushion for any bad news coming and that suggests we’ll
probably get close to balance a little bit earlier than they are
suggesting,” said  Craig Wright , chief economist at Royal Bank
of Canada. “The new initiatives were less than what we were
worried that we would see.”  Additional measures in the budget include a two-year
extension of an accelerated capital cost allowance poised to
cost C$620 million, and the extension by one year of a 15
percent tax credit for mineral exploration. The fiscal plan will
also eliminate special tax breaks for the oil sands sector that
will generate C$220 million in revenue through March 2016.  Canada’s government will also extend by one-year a
temporary domestic financing mandate of its export financing
agency,  Export Development Canada , and will review whether those
powers should be extended further. EDC received its domestic
lending mandate in 2009 as part of the country’s stimulus
measures to offset the effects of the global recession.  Increasing the supplement for low-income earners will cost
C$530 million through March 2013, while the caregiver tax credit
will reduce revenue by C$200 million over that time, according
to the budget. The government also is introducing a tax credit
for families with children in arts classes, which will be worth
C$225 million through March 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 