-- 
Four Attorneys General Say Foreclosure Deal Terms May Cause `Moral Hazard

-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/foreclosure-terms-may-pose-a-moral-hazard-state-attorneys-general-say.html
A plan to resolve a nationwide
probe of foreclosure and mortgage-servicing practices is being
opposed by four more Republican state  attorneys general , who say
the terms of a deal may foster a “moral hazard.”  In a letter to Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, a Democrat
who has taken the lead in the investigation, the officials
objected to new documentation requirements and principal
reductions outlined in the proposed settlement submitted to the
country’s top mortgage-servicing companies this month.  Yesterday’s letter, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News, was signed by attorneys general Kenneth Cuccinelli of Virginia, Greg Abbott of  Texas , Pam Bondi of
 Florida  and Alan Wilson of  South Carolina . The attorneys general
of Oklahoma, Alabama and Nebraska sent Miller a letter with
their objections on March 16.  The settlement offer “appears to reach well beyond the
scope of our enforcement role, and, in some instances, far
exceeds the scope of the misconduct which was the subject of our
original investigation,” according to the letter, which was
verified by Brian Gottstein, a spokesman for Cuccinelli.  A key objection is the “moral hazard” created by the
proposal to reduce homebuyers’ loans because it “rewards those
who simply choose not to pay their mortgage,” the attorneys
general said.  ‘Starting Point’  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Miller, said by e-mail
that while there are disagreements among the states, there is
consensus on the need to work together on the foreclosure
problems. The current proposal is “a starting point,” he said.  Gottstein and Lauren Bean, a spokesman for Abbott, declined
to comment, as did Mark Plowden, a spokesman for Wilson.  Jennifer Meale, a spokeswoman for Bondi, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail message seeking comment after regular
business hours yesterday.  Federal agencies and state attorneys general on March 3
delivered a 27-page settlement proposal that would set standards
for how mortgage servicers conduct foreclosures and service
loans. Those banks include  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   The terms would force procedural changes on the servicers,
including banning companies from initiating foreclosure
proceedings while a loan modification is pending, providing
borrowers with a single point of contact, and informing
borrowers of denied modifications in writing.  Loan Modifications  Borrowers who are enrolled in a trial loan modification
under a federal program and make three loan payments on time
would get a permanent loan modification under the proposal. The
document would give attorneys general and the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau responsibility to police servicers’ compliance
with any settlement.  The terms would impose documentation requirements on banks
that go beyond Virginia law, Cuccinelli said in an interview on
March 11. A “major problem” is that government-owned mortgage
companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  aren’t involved in the
negotiations, he said.  U.S. House Republicans also criticized the proposal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in  Washington  at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 