-- 
Former Blatter Opponent Johansson Favors FIFA President Over Bin Hammam

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-22T23:01:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/former-blatter-opponent-johansson-favors-fifa-president-over-bin-hammam.html
Sepp Blatter will secure a fourth
term as  FIFA  president, according to the man who was beaten in
the incumbent’s first election to the post 13 years ago.  Lennart Johansson, 81, lost to Blatter in 1998 in a
campaign that featured each man publicly criticizing the other.
He says Blatter’s performance as soccer’s top official will make
it hard for this year’s opponent, Mohamed  Bin Hammam , to win in
the June 1 vote of the ruling body’s 208 members.  “Blatter has been there for 40 years and he was elected by
a 100 percent last time,” Johansson, a former head of UEFA,
European soccer’s governing body, said during in an interview in
Paris. “I cannot see what has happened lately that would lead
to him stepping down.”  Blatter won his third term by acclamation in 2007, after
running unopposed. He’s been with FIFA since the 1970s and is a
former general secretary of the organization.  The 75-year-old Blatter is one of sport’s most visible
administrators. He overcame opposition from inside his own
organization to take the  World Cup  to  Africa  for the first time
last year.  Bin Hammam, 61, who heads soccer in  Asia , has tried to
raise his profile in recent years, and successfully lobbied for
his homeland, Qatar, to stage the World Cup in 2022.  Johansson feels voters are likely to go with Blatter
because they know him better.  “Bin Hammam is a good man but he’s not very well known
over the world,” he said. “He hasn’t been with us so long.
It’s important for the delegates to know for whom they are
voting.”  The 1998 and 2002 FIFA elections were notable for the
rancor surrounding them. Blatter’s victory nine years ago over
Cameroon’s Issa Hyatou ended with a purge of the organization,
which included the exit of former General Secretary Michel Zen Ruffinen.  Johansson said he wants a fair election, saying that people
who’d said they’d vote for him didn’t follow through with their
promises.  “You must check that those who say they’ll support you,
that he really supports,” he said. “I was (let down) all the
way. That made me bitter in the beginning but I’ve forgotten it
now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Paris via the London newsroom
at   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 