-- 
Former Minnesota Workers Battle State in Court Over Law to Reduce Pensions

-- B y   B e t h   H a w k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-22T19:10:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/former-minnesota-workers-battle-state-in-court-over-law-to-cut-pensions.html
Six former  Minnesota  public
employees claiming to represent 130,000 others asked a court to
invalidate cuts in their retirement benefits.  The state Legislature last year reduced cost-of-living
increases the workers say they were guaranteed by contract. They
sued the governor and three pension plans, seeking class-action,
or group, status for the case. In court today, both sides asked
state Judge  Gregg E. Johnson  in St. Paul to rule in their favor.  “I cannot find any other case where the court has allowed
the government to cut the vested benefits of a group of
retirees,” workers lawyer  Stephen M. Pincus  of Pittsburgh’s
Stember, Feinstein, Doyle & Payne LLC, told Johnson.  Assistant Attorney General Rita Coyle Demeules told the
judge active employee pension terms too were altered to spread
the burden and that the retiree cuts should be upheld. “The
benefits they cite are future and speculative,” she said.  The summary-judgment hearing in  St. Paul , the state
capital, comes as  state governments  nationally are coping with
reduced revenue and pressure to cut spending.  In neighboring  Wisconsin , the state government is battling
workers over enforcement of a law that would curb state
employees’ ability to unionize and engage in collective
bargaining.  “Minnesota law demands balanced protection for the pension
interests of all plan members,” the state said in a September
filing. The retirees, state lawyers said, “urge the court to
sacrifice the interests of active employees, or taxpayers,
merely to protect their future, anticipated increases.”  Lawyers for the former workers disagree.  “Defendants could have taken other actions to shore up the
retirement systems’ funding levels without breaking their
promises to retirees,” the former workers said then.  “You’re deferring salary partly in agreement that you’re
going to get that money back when you retire,” Pincus said
today.  The reductions to retirees’ cost of living increases are
projected to expire in about 25 years. Pincus said that time
frame is too long for those he represents.  “For any of these people who are retired, already in their
60s and 70s, they will not live that long,” the attorney said.  Demeules, the state’s lawyer, said the reductions were
necessary because projected pension insolvency dates were
otherwise within the lifetimes of current retirees.  “Contributions were changed, vesting periods were changed.
This was a measured response,” the assistant attorney general
said. “Everyone’s suffering.”  Johnson said he would render a decision within 90 days and
instructed both sides to submit proposed orders to him not later
than May 13.  The case is Swanson v. State of Minnesota, 62-cv-10-5285,
Ramsey County, Minnesota, District Court, Second Judicial
District (St. Paul).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Hawkins in St. Paul, Minnesota,
at   hawkins@visi.com ;
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
   .aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  