-- 
Forth Ports Accepts $1.22 Billion Offer From Arcus European Infrastructure

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-03-22T16:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/forth-ports-accepts-1-22-billion-offer-from-arcus-european-infrastructure.html
Forth Ports Plc (FPT) , Britain’s last
listed ports operator following a spate of takeovers, accepted a
cash offer worth almost 746 million pounds ($1.22 billion) from
 Arcus  European Infrastructure Fund 1 LP.  Arcus’s Otter Ports unit will pay 1,630 pence a share in
cash for Edinburgh-based Forth Ports, which operates  Scotland ’s
biggest container dock and seven other U.K. facilities including
Tilbury, near London, the companies said in a statement today.  “The offer gives shareholders a chance to realize their
investment at a fair price and we believe it’s in their best
interests to accept,” Forth Ports Chief Executive Officer
Charles Hammond said on a conference call. “Arcus’s incentive
is to invest in the business and grow it.”  Forth has been the subject of takeover speculation since
2006, when it became the sole publicly traded U.K. port operator
after the acquisitions of Associated British Ports Holdings Plc,
Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Co. and PD Ports Plc.
Arcus’s bid was its second in a year after a group including
Peel Holdings Ltd. and RREEF Ltd. dropped an offer of 1,400
pence, saying it couldn’t justify a higher price in light of
uncertainty over the economy and the value of property assets.  The price matches an indicative offer disclosed by Forth
Ports on March 7 and is 14 percent higher than at the close on
Feb. 21, the last trading day before reports of a renewed offer.  Dividend Payment  Investors will also keep a proposed final dividend of 20
pence a share due to be paid on May 13 and based on holdings as
of April 15, Arcus said. Including that payment and the cost of
shares issued as options, the deal has a total value of about
760 million pounds, according to Arcus. That excludes about 250
million pounds of debt that the London-based fund will assume.  Forth Ports shares rose 20 pence, or 1.2 percent, to 1,634
pence in  London  trading, the highest since Sept. 12, 2008.  Arcus already owns a 22.8 percent stake in the company and
said today that in addition to the backing of directors it has a
letter of intent from Schroder Investment Management to support
the takeover with respect to a 10.1 percent holding.  “Given the recommendation by the Forth Ports board and the
substantial pre-existing shareholding of Arcus we do not
anticipate a competing offer,” Gerald Khoo, an analyst at
Arbuthnot Securities in London, said in a note to investors.  Renewable Energy   Arcus Infrastructure Partners was founded in July 2009
after a management buyout of part of Babcock & Brown Ltd.’s
European infrastructure business, according to its website.
Arcus European Infrastructure Fund 1, its first fund, is
unlisted and has more than 2 billion euros ($2.85 billion) of
commitments backed by 40 institutional investors, the site says.  The value of Forth Ports’ real estate holdings, including
the  Ocean Terminal  shopping mall in Edinburgh, rose 6.5 percent
to 115.5 million pounds last year, the company said today in its
full-year earnings statement, citing an assessment carried out
by DTZ Debenham Tie Leung.  Forth sees more value in using remaining land holdings at
Leith in the Scottish capital and in Dundee to develop hubs for
offshore-wind and biomass renewable-energy projects than in
property redevelopment, Hammond said.  Net income rose 21 percent last year to 45.1 million pounds
as sales advanced 4.6 percent to 181.9 million pounds, the
company said.  Arcus is being advised by JPMorgan Cazenove, Forth Ports by
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and Gleacher Shacklock LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  