-- 
Galleon Tipper Goel Tells Jury About Intel Disclosures to ‘Pal’ Rajaratnam

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-22T22:55:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/galleon-tipper-rajiv-goel-takes-stand-in-rajaratnam-insider-trading-trial.html
Rajiv Goel, who worked in  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ’s treasury group, told a federal jury how he passed
confidential information to his “pal”  Raj Rajaratnam , the
Galleon Group LLC co-founder on trial for insider trading.  Goel, who is testifying for prosecutors in a bid for
leniency after pleading guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud, took the witness stand and said he told Rajaratnam about
Intel’s earnings in 2007 and a $1 billion transaction in 2008.  “Raj and I were very good friends,” Goel, 52, testified,
as Rajaratnam watched from across the well of the courtroom in
lower Manhattan. “He was a good man to me. I was a good pal, a
good person to him, so I gave him the information.”  Goel, who was a managing director at Intel, is the second
government cooperator to directly implicate Rajaratnam in
 insider trading .  Anil Kumar , a former McKinsey & Co. partner who
also pleaded guilty, earlier testified about information he
leaked about clients. Other government witnesses have also
testified about leaks to Rajaratnam.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips leaked
by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders.  Wharton School  Rajaratnam says his trades were based on legitimate
research, and his lawyers say Goel is accusing Rajaratnam to
save himself from a long prison term.  In court today, Goel said he and Rajaratnam became friends
at the Wharton School at the  University of Pennsylvania , from
which they graduated in 1983, and grew close over ensuing years.
The families vacationed together, said Goel, a native of  Mumbai .  After returning to the U.S. from  India  and winning a job at
Intel in 2000, Goel said he repeatedly turned to Rajaratnam for
financial assistance. Rajaratnam loaned Goel $100,000 to buy a
home in 2005 and another $500,000 the next year when Goel needed
support for his ailing father, Goel said.  Goel put the $500,000 in a Swiss bank and used a portion to
remedy a rat problem in his new house in  California , he said.
Goel didn’t report the gift to the  Internal Revenue Service , he
said.  Goel said he and Rajaratnam shared confidences. In 2003,
Rajaratnam told Goel that two women who worked in Intel’s sales
department had leaked information to him, and Rajaratnam gave
each of them a BMW car in return, Goel testified.  ‘Gave Them the Keys’  “He gave them the keys,” Goel said.  Goel didn’t identify the two women.  Roomy Khan , a former
Intel executive and stock trader, has pleaded guilty to insider
trading and is cooperating with prosecutors. The other woman
hasn’t been identified.  Goel testified that he also asked Rajaratnam for help
trading stocks in 2005.  “I told him, ‘You’re a star trader,’” Goel said. “’I
don’t know how to trade stocks. Can you help me? Can you help me
make some money?”  Rajaratnam or an aide traded in Goel’s account with  Charles
Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  from 2005 to 2009 and earned $700,000 to $800,000
for his friend, Goel said. Prosecutors highlighted several
trades in the account that witnesses have said were based on
inside information.  One set of trades involved At Road Inc., which generated a
profit for Goel of about $19,700, he testified. Assistant U.S.
Attorney  Reed Brodsky  asked Goel whether Rajaratnam talked about
the trade.  At Road CEO  “He said he knew the CEO at At Road and there was going to
be an acquisition,” Goel testified.  At Road was acquired months later by Trimble Navigation
Ltd. Goel said the chief executive officer of At Road was Krish Panu, who also has served as a managing partner at Galleon.  Prosecutors previously claimed Panu gave Rajaratnam secret
information about PeopleSupport Inc., on whose board he sat.  Goel said he first leaked Intel’s financial data to
Rajaratnam in March and April 2007, before the company announced
first-quarter earnings. By that point, Rajaratnam’s questions to
Goel had evolved from generalities about Silicon Valley to
specifics about Intel’s earnings, gross margins and factory
capacity, Goel said.  Goel said he learned information about Intel’s earnings
from Alex Lenke, an investor-relations official at the  Santa
Clara , California-based chipmaker. Lenke, who earlier testified
at the trial, also gave Goel periodic updates on the financial
data, Goel said.  The updated financial information made Goel “nervous,” he
said.  ‘Close Friend’  “I considered Raj to be a close friend,” Goel testified.
“I was afraid that if it turned out to be wrong, it would have
a bearing on the friendship.”  Goel said he eventually tracked Rajaratnam down “somewhere
in the Caribbean islands” and told him about the updates.  Among the evidence prosecutors introduced was a Nov. 28,
2006, e-mail from Goel to Rajaratnam in which Goel said he would
soon be in  Manhattan  and wanted to meet.  In the e-mail, Goel also asked Rajaratnam if he could
introduce him to “Milken.”  “If you have any connection in to Milken, I would truly
appreciate that,” Goel wrote.  Prosecutors didn’t ask Goel to identify the person or
provide more detail.  Prosecutors tomorrow will question Goel about his alleged
tip to Rajaratnam about Intel’s $1 billion investment in a new
wireless network company formed by Clearwire Corp. and Sprint
Nextel Corp.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net .
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 