-- 
Gasoline Shipping Profit Seen Rising 24% After Earthquake: Freight Markets

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-03-22T09:28:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/gasoline-shipping-profit-seen-rising-39-after-earthquake-freight-markets.html
Profit from shipping gasoline to
the U.S. from Europe in the second quarter will rise 24 percent
as disruptions to Japanese imports divert cargoes across the
Atlantic, increasing demand for vessels.  Forward freight agreements, traded by brokers and used to
hedge or bet on future transport rates, will rise to $14,000 a
day on the route, from $11,252 yesterday, said Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo. His
recommendations on stocks of shipping lines returned 24 percent
in the past six months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami that battered  Japan 
closed petrochemical plants that buy European naphtha, an oil
product than can be converted into gasoline or used to make
plastics. European refiners will need to find alternative
markets while those plants remain shut, increasing demand and
profit for vessels in the Atlantic Ocean at a time when earnings
in most shipping markets are slumping.  “It’s highly likely that a surplus of gasoline or naphtha
or both will develop in Europe,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , the head
of commodity markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London, said
by e-mail March 18. “Refiners will want to export as much of
that as possible to the U.S. to support domestic margins.”  Japanese petrochemical plants use naphtha to make ethylene,
a material for plastics, and about 22 percent of capacity was
curbed by the March 11 disaster, according to Purvin & Gertz
Inc., an energy consultant based in Houston. Japan is the
second-biggest ethylene producer in Asia after  China , data
compiled by Bloomberg show. European naphtha shipments to Asia
will probably slump by 78 percent to 100,000 metric tons this
month, a Bloomberg survey of five traders showed.  Energy Consultant  “The outlook for naphtha is very bearish as six petchem
plants are offline and much of the manufacturing activity at
Sony, Toyota, Toshiba, etc., has been halted,” Richard Gorry, a
director at Vienna-based JBC Energy GmbH, a consultant and
researcher, said by phone March 18.  For European refineries, that means a glut of naphtha and
one way of dealing with the surplus is to blend it into gasoline
and then ship it to the U.S., the largest fuel market, according
to Tchilinguirian.  Gasoline at New York Harbor cost as much as 6 percent more
than in  Europe  yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The spread is wide enough to allow traders to ship
the fuel profitably across the Atlantic Ocean, according to RS
Platou Markets AS and Pareto Securities AS, both Norwegian
investment banks.  More Cargoes  More cargoes means more demand for the 590-foot tankers
used on the route, operated by companies including Copenhagen-
based Torm A/S, Europe’s biggest publicly traded oil-products
shipping line. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., based in  Tokyo , and
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, headquartered in Copenhagen, also own
the vessels, known as medium-range tankers.  Traders of freight forwards are already anticipating the
surge in demand in the Atlantic, with second-quarter contracts
jumping 8.8 percent on March 18, according to Imarex ASA, an
Oslo-based broker of the derivatives.  Rental income on the route jumped 79 percent this year as
demand strengthened, according to the Baltic Exchange in  London ,
which publishes rates for more than 50 maritime routes. That
beat the 6.6 percent advance in the Baltic Clean Tanker Index, a
gauge of six different routes. Returns in the spot, or single
voyage, market rose 1.1 percent to $14,607 a day yesterday,
Baltic Exchange data show.  Volatile Rates  Rates are volatile, moving 10 percent or more in all but
six of the last 31 months. They doubled in four of those months.  The improving returns on medium-range tankers contrasts
with a decline for other parts of the merchant fleet. Income on
capesizes, used to haul coal and iron ore, slumped 54 percent
this year while returns for supertankers carrying crude fell 18
percent,  Baltic Exchange  data show. Container shipping costs
climbed 26 percent, according to a gauge from the Hamburg
Shipbrokers’ Association.  Naphtha and gasoline are part of the so-called light-end
products derived from crude, accounting for about 35 percent of
the total depending on the type of crude and the refinery used
to process it, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Refineries produce naphtha when they process crude oil.
This in turn is split into heavy and light naphtha. While the
light variety is more commonly used by the petrochemicals
industry, it can be blended into gasoline, said Mike Lazer, vice
president of KBC Market Services, an adviser to the  energy
industry  based in Walton-on-Thames,  England . Heavy naphtha can
be made into gasoline with the addition of high octane
components that make it more combustible, he said.  Premium Demanded  As refineries and factories in Japan shut down this month,
the premium demanded for naphtha in  Asia  relative to Europe fell
to $13.97 a barrel so far this month from $15.21 last month,
according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a London-based
broker. The premium allows traders in Europe to pay for shipping
costs and profit from sending cargoes to Asian customers.  European refiners are losing about $8 for each barrel of
naphtha they make and earn about $5 for every barrel of
gasoline, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  More gasoline cargoes to the U.S. may mean more business
for Torm, a company founded in 1889 that now operates a fleet of
about 130 product tankers of various sizes, carrying everything
from jet fuel to diesel. The shares slumped 21 percent this year
and the company said March 10 it would probably report a third
consecutive annual loss in 2011. Just three of the 12 analysts
covering the company and tracked by Bloomberg rate it a “buy.”  Head of Tankers  Tina Revsbech, head of tankers at Torm, said it was too
soon to say whether transatlantic cargoes would increase as a
result of the events in Japan.  Global shipments of oil products, including naphtha, will
advance 3 percent this year, according to data from Clarkson
Research Services Ltd., part of the world’s largest shipbroker.
The fleet will expand 9 percent to 114.9 million deadweight
tons, a measure of carrying capacity, Clarkson estimates.  The prospects for earnings on at least one route may be
better than that ratio suggests.  “The product tanker market is expected to move higher in
the wake of the Japanese earthquake,” said Stavseth of Arctic
Securities. “When Japan stops importing there’s an excess and
it really shifts the trade volumes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 Anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  