-- 
Gazprom, Slovenia Agree on South Stream Gas Link Venture

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-03-22T17:48:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/gazprom-slovenia-agree-to-form-south-stream-gas-link-venture.html
Slovenia agreed to form a venture
with OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s gas export monopoly, to develop the
South Stream  gas pipeline  to carry fuel to central  Europe .  “I am sure this project will bring a certain benefit to
all participants, will ensure reliable energy supplies in
Slovenia and other European countries,” Russian Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  said in Ljubljana today.  Turkish reluctance to the project will not affect the South
Stream, Putin said. Russia will provide Turkey with additional
documents on the pipeline’s environmental safety, its route and
feasibility study’s estimate in few months, he said.  Gazprom and Slovenian gas distributor Geoplin Plinovodi
d.o.o., which will each hold 50 percent of the venture, will
seek an exemption from the European Union’s directive on
splitting supplies and pipeline operators, the Slovenian
government said in a statement distributed to reporters before
the signing in Ljubljana.  Slovenian Prime Minister Borut Pahor and Russian Prime
Minister Vladimir Putin met earlier today.  The  South Stream  project, led by Russian gas monopoly OAO
Gazprom and Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI) , plans to build a pipeline across
the  Black Sea  to ship Russian gas, bypassing transit countries.
Ukraine transported about 70 percent of Russia’s Europe-bound
supplies last year, Gazprom said today.  Slovenian Gas Purchases  Slovenia, which buys about 600 million cubic meters of gas
a year from Gazprom, was among the Balkan countries whose
supplies were disrupted during a gas dispute between Russia and
Ukraine. The Adriatic nation wants to avoid further disruption
by diversifying energy sources.  The Slovenian section of the South Stream pipeline will be
able to carry as much as 10 billion cubic meters a year,
Slovenian Economy Minister Matej Lahovnik said on Nov. 12.  Construction of the 900-kilometer (560-mile) South Stream
pipeline is due to start in 2013, with the first deliveries in
late 2015. Slovenia joins  Bulgaria , Serbia, Hungary and  Greece 
as a partner in the onshore section of  South Stream , which may
compete with the planned EU-backed Nabucco pipeline, designed to
carry Caspian and Middle Eastern gas through Turkey.  BASF SE’s Wintershall unit agreed yesterday to acquire 15
percent in the offshore section of the South Stream link, in
which Gazprom plans to maintain a 50 percent stake. Electricite
de France SA, Europe’s biggest power generator, is expected to
join the project this year, Gazprom Chief Executive Officer
 Alexei Miller  said last month.  The offshore section of the link may cost 10 billion euros,
while the onshore section in Europe may cost 5.5 billion euros,
Gazprom said on its website on Nov. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net ;
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  