-- 
Geithner Says Small Companies Need Better Access to Funding

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-22T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/geithner-says-small-companies-need-better-access-to-funding.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the Obama administration wants to improve access
to loans for small businesses to spur growth and employment in
the world’s largest economy.  “The financial crisis caused a great deal of damage to the
capacity of innovators to access capital, and we can’t promote
innovation and investment in the  United States  unless we help
innovative companies get the funding they need to succeed,” he
said in prepared remarks for a conference in  Washington  today.  The Obama administration is trying to address concerns of
small businesses, which the government estimates generated  two-
thirds of new jobs  over the past 15 years, as it tries to lower
8.9 percent unemployment. Hiring must accelerate, particularly
among small companies, to help restore the more than 8.75
million jobs lost during the recession.  “The ability of entrepreneurs to access financing is
essential to building a more competitive economy,” Geithner
will tell the Access to Capital Conference, according to
excerpts of his comments released by the Treasury.  A March 17 report showed consumer confidence in the U.S.
plunged in the previous week to the lowest level since August as
rising gasoline prices made Americans more pessimistic about the
economic outlook and their finances.  The conference today at the Treasury is “an opportunity to
find solutions that run from the traditional -- such as tax
incentives and direct lending -- to the innovative and
alternative, such as creating a way to efficiently pool
investments in small companies,” Geithner said in the excerpts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  