-- 
Irish, Greek Notes Slump on Concern That EU Steps Failing to Stem Crisis

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-03-22T17:18:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/german-bonds-drop-on-rising-stocks-easing-japan-concern-debt-crisis-plan.html
Irish and Greek two-year notes fell
and the cost of debt insurance surged on concern European Union
leaders are struggling to find a solution to the euro region’s
fiscal crisis.  EU finance chiefs settled yesterday on a permanent rescue
fund to lend 500 billion euros ($712 billion) as of 2013, while
remaining divided over how to get the current stopgap fund to
its full capacity.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , a state-controlled
lender, denied speculation it’s planning to miss a bond interest
payment as yields on government two-year notes soared.  The EU hasn’t “really reached an agreement on the current
mechanism,” said Elwin de Groot, a senior market economist at
Rabobank Groep in Utrecht, the Netherlands. “It’s small steps
at a time. There’s still a lot of uncertainty,” he said.  The losses left Ireland’s two-year notes yielding more than
those that mature in 10 years, while Greek two-year yields
jumped by the most since March 9. The yield difference, or
spread, between Irish two- and 10-year bonds was at minus nine
basis points today as the two-year yield exceeded that of the
10-year. The spread was as much as 150 basis points on March 7.  Credit-default swaps insuring Irish government debt surged
31 basis points to 618 as of 4:20 p.m. in London, the highest
since Jan. 27, while contracts on  Greece  rose 23 basis points to
973 and those on  Portugal  climbed 42.5 basis points to 540,
according to CMA.  ‘No Plans’  “There’s talk in the market that an Irish bank missed a
coupon payment, but nothing concrete to back it up,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate
& Investment Bank in London.  Dublin-based Allied Irish said it has “no plans” to miss
interest payments on its bonds.  “AIB has not missed a coupon payment and will pay a due
coupon tomorrow,” said  Catherine Burke , a spokeswoman for the
lender. “We have no plans not to make future payments.”  The yield on the Irish two-year note surged 62 basis points
to 9.87 percent as of 4:36 p.m.in  London , after reaching 10.18
percent, the highest since 2003 when Bloomberg began collecting
the data. Greece’s two-year yield advanced 47 basis points to
14.91 percent.  The 10-year German bund yield rose two basis points to
3.25 percent, while the yield on the two-year note declined
three basis points to 1.71 percent. European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated yesterday that he may
raise  interest rates  as soon as next month.  EU Haggling  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of
1.8 percent this year, according to indexes compiled by the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and
Bloomberg, while Treasuries have returned 0.5 percent. Spanish
debt has gained 3.1 percent and Greek bonds 2.1 percent, while
Irish debt has lost 2.9 percent and Portuguese securities have
handed investors a 3.5 percent loss, according to the indexes.  EU leaders are haggling over ways to work out a solution to
the region’s credit woes in time for a March 24-25 summit. The
package so-far agreed fell short of the original ambitions,
dropping proposals to enable debt buybacks or relieve the ECB of
the task of purchasing distressed countries’ bonds.  “We now have a comprehensive strategy to strengthen the
foundations of the euro area and to restore confidence in euro-
area sovereign bond markets,” European Union Economic and
Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters after a meeting
of EU finance ministers in Brussels yesterday.  Stability Mechanism  Yesterday’s discussions were limited to the fund to be set
up in 2013, known as the European Stability Mechanism, which
will draw on 80 billion euros of paid-in capital and 620 billion
euros of callable capital, enabling it to lend 500 billion
euros. The current fund, known as the  European Financial
Stability Facility , is only able to lend around 250 billion
euros due to collateral rules to underpin its AAA credit rating.  Germany, the biggest contributor to last year’s 177.5
billion euros in aid for Greece and Ireland, has insisted on a
toughening of sanctions against euro-area members with runaway
budget deficits. Ireland and Greece have rejected calls for
coordinating policy on issues ranging from taxation to wages as
an attack on their sovereignty.  Germany  and  France  are demanding Ireland raise its
corporate  tax rate  from the current 12.5 percent in return for
better terms on EFSF loans.  ‘Not Compromising’  “People are paying attention to the plans as they stand
with respect to the ESM,” said  Charles Diebel , head of market
strategy at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London. “People
are starting to realize that, in reality, it’s just a larger
version of what we’ve already got. Ireland is digging its heels
in about not compromising on its corporate tax rate, which means
it’s not going to get preferential rates like Greece did. That
increases the likelihood of default.”  Spain  sold a total of 2.1 billion euros of Treasury bills
today. The nation issued 1.21 billion euros of three-month bills
at an average yield of 0.899 percent, and 842 million euros of
six-month bills at 1.36 percent.  Investors bid for 7.65 times the amount of six-month bills
on sale, up from a so-called bid-to-cover of 5.51 at the
previous auction of similar-maturity securities in February.  Germany plans to sell an additional four billion euros of
the 10-year bund tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  