-- 
Girl Power Tests History’s Great-Man Theory: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-03-22T23:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/girl-power-tests-history-s-great-man-meme-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
There’s no better way to make the
point that President  Barack Obama  is indecisive, dithering and
prone to bow (literally) and scrape (figuratively) to foreigners
than with a  flood of reports  claiming it was Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , watching Colonel  Muammar Qaddafi  turn back the
rebels and strafe his own citizens, who declared war on Libya.  Not by herself, of course, and not “war,” which only
Congress can declare, as lawmakers point out ceaselessly.  Rather, this is an “intervention” engineered by Clinton
in alliance with two other powerful women:  Susan Rice , the U.S.
ambassador to the  United Nations , and Samantha Power, the
National Security Council’s senior director for multilateral
affairs. On their side was French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
who’d been marshalling the international community to join in a
stronger military action for days. Only after Clinton made up
her mind did the handwringing U.S. Hamlet-in-chief make up his.  Ooh la la! Women and the French leading Obama by the nose.
Bring on the freedom fries.  This rendering of events is greatly exaggerated but useful
for critics coming at Obama from all sides, from those adamantly
opposed to intervention to those who now support his actions but
don’t like how he got there. As Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  said on “Fox News Sunday, “I don’t
know how many people have died as we wait to do something. I
thank God for strong women in the Obama administration.”  Mired in Stereotypes  The conflict in Libya, as challenging as it may be, has a
better chance of ending well than the gender wars. We’re still
mired in stereotypes of the roles men and women play, especially
in military affairs, despite years of evidence showing that
women are as analytic, decisive, aggressive and determined.  There was, of course, the Iron Lady,  Margaret Thatcher , to
give lie to the weaker sex shrinking from confrontation. In this
country, we had National Security Adviser and Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice, a proponent of the  Iraq War  and defender of
waterboarding, and, earlier, Secretary of State  Madeleine Albright , who pushed for military action in the Balkans.  Just as Clinton today is at odds with the men on Obama’s
national security team, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and
National Security Adviser Tom Donilon, Albright was an
overwhelming force against a fretting (you break it, you own it)
 Colin Powell , then chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  Powell recalled in his  memoir  that Albright asked him in
1993, “What’s the point of having this superb military you’re
always talking about if we can’t use it?” Wrote Powell, “I
thought I would have an aneurysm.”  Making the Case  Clinton and Susan Rice had to overcome the resistance of
Gates and others to a U.S.-led effort in Libya. The New York
Times reported that Clinton got a buy-in from the  Arab League  so
that America wouldn’t be going it alone and called Obama with
the news from Paris. Rice rounded up enough votes for a toughly
worded resolution in the U.N. Security Council to pass, at one
point running from the chamber to corral AWOL diplomats.  Coinciding with the convenient and surely temporary meme
that women rule the world is a book just published by ABC legal
analyst Dan Abrams, who set out to review every study he could
find on male-female behavior. The result is “Man Down: Proof
Beyond a Reasonable Doubt that Women Are Better Cops, Drivers,
Gamblers, Spies, World Leaders, Beer Tasters, Hedge Fund
Managers and Just about Everything Else.”  While judging women superior in many ways, Abrams didn’t
find that they are treated (or paid) as such. For instance, just
3 percent of the world’s hedge-fund managers are women. Women
make less corrupt and -- according to some studies -- more
productive politicians. They also do better in the military,
enduring more pain while complaining about it less.  ‘Monster’ Label  Clinton tried to sell a version of this during the 2008
presidential campaign and got called a “monster” by her now-
ally, Power -- more evidence of another Abrams finding, that
women are better at getting along and sussing out the
competition than men are.  That was the same campaign in which Clinton was down and
out until she choked up in  New Hampshire . “Emotional” is what
those who argue for intervention for humanitarian or moral
reasons are labeled, Power wrote in her Pulitzer Prize-winning
book, “A Problem From Hell: America and the Age of Genocide.”
Nobody flung that adjective here.  What a difference two years make. Clinton sheds no tears
for  Libya  or anyone else, while the male speaker of the House
 chokes up  from the memory of sweeping up in his father’s bar.  If the military campaign goes well, White House aides will
have time to embellish the roles of their male bosses in the
successful removal of a real monster in Tripoli. The Great Man
theory of history would have it no other way.  (Margaret Carlson, author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Margaret Carlson  in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  