-- 
Glencore Said Near to Hiring Eight Banks for Initial Sale

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-03-22T15:31:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/glencore-said-to-be-near-hiring-eight-banks-for-10-billion-public-offer.html
Glencore International AG, the
largest commodities trader, is close to hiring eight banks to
manage its $10 billion initial public offering in London and
 Hong Kong , according to two people with knowledge of the
transaction.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and  UBS AG (UBSN)  may be named IPO bookrunners in
addition to lead managers  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , said the people, who declined to be
identified because the information is private. Additional banks,
including Liberum Capital Ltd., may be appointed with a lesser
role, according to the people.  While a final decision hasn’t been made on the timing of
the IPO, Glencore may press ahead as soon as April because
preparatory work may be completed by end of this month, said
the people.  Simon Buerk, a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, declined to comment. A spokeswoman at Bank of America
and spokesmen for Citigroup and SocGen declined to comment.
Spokespeople for the other banks weren’t immediately available.  The value of Glencore’s 10 largest listed mining holdings
have fallen as much as 12 percent to $27.8 billion from its
February peak after  Japan ’s nuclear crisis. The value of the
holdings rebounded to $29.6 billion as of 2:30 p.m. London time
today.  Mining Holdings  Glencore’s holdings include a 34 percent stake in  Xstrata
Plc (XTA)  and an 8.8 percent interest in United Co. Rusal, the largest
aluminum producer, according to its Dec. 31 annual report
to bondholders obtained by Bloomberg News. The MSCI World Index
of stocks is rising for a fourth-straight day, posting a 4.1
percent gain from its close on March 16.  Banks that underwrite equity sales in the U.K. and Hong
Kong receive fees averaging 2.5 percent of the amount raised,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg since 2005. At that
rate, Glencore would pay $250 million to its IPO managers if the
sale raises $10 billion, the amount the company was said to be
seeking.  Larger stock offerings typically pay a smaller percentage
to underwriters. Essar Energy Plc paid 2.25 percent to managers
of its 1.3 billion-pound ($2.1 billion)  London  IPO last year,
Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 