-- 
GM Sells $1.02 Billion of Ally Financial Perpetual Preferreds

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-22T22:27:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/gm-plans-1-02-billion-sale-of-ally-financial-preferreds.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  sold $1.02
billion of perpetual preferred stock in Ally Financial Inc., a
step in the biggest U.S. automaker’s effort to limit ties to its
former finance arm.  Ally, the lender formerly known as GMAC Inc., wasn’t slated
to receive any proceeds from the sale, according to a filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Detroit-based GM
will record a $300 million gain because of the transaction, it
said in a statement distributed by PR Newswire.  GM owned Ally until 2006, when it sold a 51 percent stake
for $7.4 billion to a group of investors led by Cerberus Capital
Management LP. U.S. taxpayers now own 74 percent of Ally’s
common stock, a holding taken on when the government bailed out
the lender in 2008 at the height of the financial crisis. GM
still owns 9.9 percent of the shares directly and through a
trust.  “The sale is a continuation of the process of slowly
moving away from the government and GM,” said  Mirko Mikelic , a
 Grand Rapids , Michigan-based money manager at Fifth Third Asset
Management, which oversees $13 billion of fixed-income holdings.
“They want to continue to expand without oversight.”  The U.S. Treasury Department sold $2.67 billion of Ally’s
trust preferred securities on March 2, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The offering recouped some of the
government’s $17.2 billion deployed to rescue the company
beginning in December of 2008.  Ally Vs. AmeriCredit  Competition between GM and Ally has intensified since the
automaker purchased AmeriCredit Corp. last year to regain a
captive finance arm. GM Treasurer Dan Ammann, who takes over as
chief financial officer on April 1, has said the company is
considering ways to expand into offering its dealers loans to
purchase new inventory, a pivotal business for Ally.  “Today, we are taking another step forward in our strategy
to strengthen and simplify the company’s balance sheet,” said
 Chris Liddell , GM’s chief financial officer, in the statement.  GM sold 40.9 million shares of the perpetual preferred
stock, which has a face value of $25 a share, Bloomberg data
show. The securities will pay a fixed 8.5 percent interest rate
until 2016, then a rate that floats over the three-month London
interbank offered rate, Bloomberg data show.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Bank of America Corp., Deutsche
Bank AG and Barclays Plc are managing the sale, according to the
filing.  The debt may be rated Caa1 by Moody’s Investors Service and
CC by  Standard & Poor’s , said the person, who declined to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to discuss the
transaction publicly.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 