-- 
Goldman’s Blankfein to Testify at Rajaratnam’s Trading Trial

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/goldman-s-blankfein-will-be-called-by-u-s-to-testify-at-rajaratnam-trial.html
Lloyd Blankfein , chief executive 
officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , will be called by U.S. 
prosecutors to testify as a government witness at Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam’s insider-trading trial.  In a letter sent to U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell,
who is presiding over Rajaratnam’s trial in Manhattan,
prosecutors sought to limit Blankfein’s cross-examination by
Rajaratnam’s lawyers.  In calling Blankfein as a witness, prosecutors in the
office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan said they
don’t want Blankfein to be questioned about “whether Goldman
Sachs is presently the subject of any pending investigations by
either the  Department of Justice  or the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission” and whether the bank bears any
responsibility for the 2008 financial crisis.  Rajaratnam’s lawyer,  John Dowd , in a separate letter to
prosecutors, also dated March 21, said,“Today, counsel learned
for the first time that neither Mr. Blankfein nor Goldman Sachs
has been notified that they are a target (or for that matter a
subject) of any active investigation.”  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips leaked
by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders. He denies
wrongdoing, saying he based his trades on research.  Yesterday in the trial, Rajiv Goel, who worked in  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ’s treasury group, testified that he passed confidential
information to his “pal” Rajaratnam.  Goel, who is testifying for prosecutors in a bid for
leniency after pleading guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud, said he told Rajaratnam about Intel’s earnings in 2007
and a $1 billion transaction in 2008.  ‘Good Friends’  “Raj and I were very good friends,” Goel, 52, testified,
as Rajaratnam watched from across the well of the courtroom.
“He was a good man to me. I was a good pal, a good person to
him, so I gave him the information.”  Goel, who was a managing director at Intel, is the second
government cooperator to directly implicate Rajaratnam in
 insider trading . Anil Kumar, a former McKinsey & Co. partner who
also pleaded guilty, earlier testified about information he
leaked about clients. Other government witnesses have also
testified about leaks to Rajaratnam.  Government Witness  The U.S. subpoenaed Blankfein to testify about former
Goldman Sachs director Rajat Gupta and his interactions with
Rajaratnam, prosecutors said in their letter to the judge.
Blankfein could testify “as early as this week,” Dowd said in
a March 20 letter to Holwell.  After testimony concluded yesterday, Holwell said that he
will hear oral arguments regarding “the Goldman letter” today
before testimony resumes. Tomorrow is scheduled to be the last
day of testimony this week.  Dowd sought to “identify all ‘open investigations’ of
Goldman Sachs” by the  Justice Department  or the SEC,
prosecutors said.  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
declined comment on the government’s letter.  Jim McCarthy , a spokesman for Rajaratnam, didn’t have an
immediate comment.  Prosecutors want Blankfein as a witness to show that
Rajaratnam traded on inside information about Goldman Sachs he
obtained from Gupta, after Gupta attended a board meeting. The
U.S. said in its letter that Blankfein’s testimony is “limited
in scope,” as it pertains to Gupta.  Berkshire Investment  Rajaratnam got a tip from Gupta about a $5 billion
investment in the firm by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., and Gupta allegedly passed the news immediately to
Rajaratnam, who bought shares, prosecutors told the jury in
opening statements.  “Were Mr. Blankfein’s testimony regarding the actions of
one board member,  Rajat Gupta , to become the vehicle through
which he is called upon to answer questions regarding any number
of unrelated pending proceedings, there would be a serious
danger of prejudice and confusion,” prosecutors said.  On March 7, Rajaratnam served a trial subpoena on Goldman
Sachs seeking “documents sufficient to show currently active
investigations” being conducted by the Department of Justice,
Bharara’s office and the SEC.  In the subpoena, Rajaratnam requested notes and memoranda
of interviews of Blankfein and Gupta, as well as Gary D. Cohn,
Goldman Sachs’s president and chief operating officer, and David Viniar, the firm’s chief financial officer, relating to the
disclosure of inside information to Rajaratnam.  Board Minutes  The subpoena also calls for minutes of Goldman Sachs board
meetings and committees that took place on July 17, 2008, and
October 23, 2008, and any materials distributed to board members
for those meetings.  The SEC on March 1 filed administrative charges accusing
Gupta of leaking confidential information to Rajaratnam,
including Berkshire’s investment in Goldman Sachs, the
securities firm’s quarterly earnings, and financial results for
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was also a director.
Prosecutors, calling Gupta a Rajaratnam co-conspirator, made
similar allegations in their opening statements at the insider-
trading trial.  Gupta’s tips allegedly spurred Rajaratnam to buy Goldman
Sachs stock, earning $1 million in two minutes, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Jonathan Streeter told the jury March 9. Streeter said
another tip by Gupta about Goldman Sachs losses prompted Galleon
to sell shares and avoid losing millions of dollars.  Gupta’s Suit  Gupta sued the SEC on March 18, claiming the SEC’s
administrative action unfairly bars him from a  jury trial . Gupta
seeks a jury trial and to have the SEC barred from asking for
civil penalties. He is also seeking a court order keeping the
agency from pursuing its administrative claims against him.  Gupta stepped down from Goldman Sachs’s board last year and
resigned from Procter & Gamble. Gupta is a former managing
director of McKinsey & Co. and is currently the firm’s senior
partner emeritus.  In Gupta’s lawsuit,  Gary Naftalis , his lawyer, called the
regulator’s claims baseless. He has also said there is no
allegation that Gupta made any illegal trades or shared in any
profits from them.  Gupta has been mentioned almost daily at Rajaratnam’s
trial, which began March 8.  Government’s Intent  In the government’s letter to the court, prosecutors said
they wanted to prevent Rajaratnam’s team from implying that
“Blankfein is testifying in this matter in hopes of obtaining a
better resolution of some separate, ongoing legal proceeding
involving Goldman Sachs.”  “There is absolutely no support for such a claim, it is
entirely false,” assistant U.S. attorneys Streeter and  Reed Brodsky  said in the letter.  “The government has made no promise, explicit or implicit,
direct or indirect, express or implied that Mr. Blankfein or
Goldman Sachs will receive anything at all in exchange for his
testimony.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 