-- 
Goldcorp Shareholders Seek Vote to Shut Down Guatemala Mine

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-03-22T21:04:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/goldcorp-shareholders-seek-vote-to-shut-down-guatemala-mine-1-.html
Two investors in  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the
world’s second-largest producer of the metal by market value,
proposed the suspension of a Guatemala mine be put to a
shareholder vote.  The Vancouver-based company has until March 26 to respond
to the resolution brought by the investors which calls for a
vote at Goldcorp’s May 18 annual general meeting, Jennifer
Moore, a spokeswoman for advocacy group MiningWatch Canada, said
today in a telephone interview from Ottawa.  The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, an arm of
the  Organization of American States , in May asked Guatemala to
close the Marlin mine pending an investigation into allegations
that it had adversely affected the health of local Mayan people.
An IACHR report also said the affected communities were deprived
of their rights because the mining concession was issued without
consulting them.  "Discussions with all stakeholders are progressing well,"
Jeff Wilhoit, a spokesman for Goldcorp, said in a telephone
interview. Most concerns about human rights raised in a company
report last year have been addressed, he said. He declined to
comment on the resolution.  A similar resolution at last year’s meeting got 10 percent
of the vote, including votes from the Van Eck Emerging Markets
Fund, Moore said. Van Eck Associates Corp. holds 2.9 percent of
Goldcorp, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Marlin produced 296,100 ounces of gold last year, or about
12 percent of Goldcorp’s total.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , based in Toronto, is the world’s
largest gold miner ranked by market capitalization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net . 