-- 
Google’s $125 Million Digital Library Settlement Rejected by U.S. Judge

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-03-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/google-s-125-million-digital-library-settlement-is-rejected-by-u-s-judge.html
A U.S. judge rejected  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
$125 million settlement with publishers and authors, saying the
deal to create the world’s biggest digital book library would be
unfair to authors.  The expansive nature of the settlement, calling for
copyright owners to opt out or be automatically included,
“would simply go too far,” said U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin
in  Manhattan , who was a district-court judge when the case first
came before him. He suggested the settlement would have a better
chance at approval were it revised to cover only those who opt
into the agreement.  As written now, the settlement “would grant Google
significant rights to exploit entire books, without permission
of copyright owners,” Chin wrote yesterday. It “would give
Google a significant advantage over competitors, rewarding it
for engaging in wholesale copying of copyrighted works without
permission, while releasing claims well beyond those presented
in the case.”  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , was sued in
2005 by authors and publishers who said the company was
infringing their copyrights on a massive scale by digitizing
books. The agreement includes a  Book Rights Registry  to
compensate copyright holders.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Yahoo! Inc., along
with the German and French governments, said the agreement would
give Google unfair control over digitized works and expand its
power in the search engine market. Some  author groups  who
weren’t part of the settlement said they would lose control of
their copyrights.  Copyright Protection  The agreement focuses on out-of-print books still protected
by U.S. copyright law. Google struck agreements with publishers
to allow limited access to books that are still commercially
available, and the site has links to let consumers buy the books
from various sources, including Amazon.com and Barnes & Noble.  Google said it was considering its options and was
disappointed by the decision.  “Like many others, we believe this agreement has the
potential to open up access to millions of books that are
currently hard to find in the U.S. today,” Hilary Ware,
Google’s managing counsel, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Regardless of the outcome, we’ll continue to work to make more
of the world’s books discoverable online through Google Books
and Google eBooks.”  Narrower Settlement  The settlement was reached with the groups including
 Author’s Guild ,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin and Education units,
McGraw-Hill Cos., John Wiley & Sons Inc. and  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon &
Schuster subsidiary. The head of Macmillan Publishers, a unit of
closely held Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH, said the
publishers are willing to enter into a more narrow settlement
using Chin’s ruling as guidance and “we hope the other parties
will do so as well.”  “For more than a decade, publishers have been making
substantial investments to enable and enhance online access to
content in accordance with copyright laws and we will continue
to do so regardless of the outcome of the litigation,” John Sargent, Macmillan’s chief executive officer, said in an e-
mailed statement. “We believe that the provisions of the
settlement would give these efforts a tremendous boost and would
open a world of opportunities for readers, researchers, authors,
libraries and publishers for decades to come.”  The settlement gave Google’s book project immunity from
copyright laws, allowing the company to distribute millions of
books on the Internet in exchange for sharing revenue.  Digital Future  The settlement became part of a larger fight over the
future of digital books. Sales of electronic titles almost
tripled last year to $441.3 million,  according  to estimates by
the Association of American Publishers in  New York .  Google and the publishers amended the settlement to address
earlier complaints, altering the handling of so-called orphan
works whose owners aren’t immediately known. They also scaled
back the international reach of the agreement to the U.S., U.K.,
 Australia  and  Canada .  Chin held a daylong hearing in February 2010 to determine
whether the revised agreement would be fair, since it would
cover a class of anyone with a copyright interest in one or more
of the books covered by the settlement.  Objectors claimed Google was using the settlement as a
vehicle to profit from the orphan works and boost the
capabilities of its search engine. They contended Congress, not
the courts, should address digital copyright issues.  Privacy concerns were raised by objectors who said it would
give Google information about what people read and how they read
it, data the company could use to improve search results and
sell advertising. They also said the deal runs afoul of
international trade treaties protecting copyrighted works.  Under Siege  “He shoots down the settlement on three important grounds,
which are the same three grounds that Google is under siege from
around the world,” said Gary Reback, co-founder of the  Open
Book Alliance , the group formed with Amazon.com, Microsoft, and
authors groups to oppose the deal. “It would give Google
dominance in the search area. There are intrusions into the
privacy of people. And Google is taking the copyrighted work of
other people without permission.”  About 6,800 people opted out of the settlement, and about
500 objections were filed with the court. Google estimated the
agreement would affect fewer than 10 million works, about half
of which aren’t commercially available in the U.S.  ‘Usurp’ Right  The ruling addresses “the important concerns raised by
foreign rights holders that their interests were not adequately
protected,” said Cynthia Arato, a lawyer representing foreign
publishing societies and publishers that objected to the
settlement. “It would be wrong for a U.S. court to allow one
company to usurp their fundamental right to control their
copyrighted work.”  Google argued that the agreement would breathe new life
into works that gather dust on library shelves because they
aren’t on the best-seller lists. Google reached agreements with
top universities to scan their books and said the database would
provide public access to the world’s greatest university
libraries, including those at Harvard and Oxford.  Sony Corp. (6758) , which makes an e-book reader competing with
Amazon.com’s Kindle and is a Google partner, said the agreement
would promote competition in the electronic book market. Google
promised to make the books usable with any device.  The case is Authors Guild v. Google Inc., 05-cv-08136, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at   aholmes25@bloomberg.net  