-- 
Parmalat Falls for Third Day as Italy May Move to Block Lactalis Takeover

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-03-23T10:31:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/groupe-lactalis-agrees-to-buy-15-3-parmalat-stake-from-three-investors.html
Parmalat SpA (PLT)  fell for a third day
as the Italian government prepared a law to make it more
difficult for Groupe Lactalis to carry out a takeover after it
gained a controlling stake in the Italian milk-products company.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s Cabinet  met  today to
consider a measure that may require government approval for any
takeover of an Italian company considered strategic. Last week,
Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti said he was doing “legislative
shopping,” studying laws in other countries as a model for the
Italian measure.  Parmalat declined 0.4 percent to 2.3 euros and has lost 7.3
percent this week.  The decree, which may weigh on Parmalat’s shares, comes a
day after French company Lactalis agreed to boost its stake in
the maker of Santal juices and long-life milk to 29 percent,
just shy of the 30 percent threshold that requires a full
takeover bid under Italian law. That holding should be enough
for Lactalis to replace Chief Executive Officer Enrico Bondi at
a shareholder meeting next month.  “The 29 percent stake will enable Lactalis to gain control
over Parmalat’s board of directors following the April
shareholder meeting, unless the Italian government finds a way
to freeze its  voting rights ,” which would leave Parmalat in an
“impasse,” Gianantonio Villani, an analyst at Gruppo Banca
Leonardo SpA, wrote in a note to investors today.  Bulgari Takeover  The government action comes less than a month after French
luxury-goods maker LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA bought
Italian jeweler Bulgari SpA and amid efforts to prevent
Electricite de France SA from gaining control of Italian power
company Edison SpA. The French utility is embroiled in a dispute
with its Italian partners over management of the company.  France has adopted similar measures to protect its
companies, provoking criticism from the European Commission for
trying to limit competition in the region’s single market. On
the last day of 2005,  France  passed an anti-takeover decree
driven by speculation that Pepsi Co. Inc was planning a takeover
bid for French Yogurt Maker Groupe Danone. The move also came
after  Italy  pressed the European Union to take action against
France for thwarting a takeover of Suez SA by Enel SpA. France
arranged the merger of Suez and Gaz de France SA to block a
purchase by Enel.  French Measures  Last January, the French Finance Ministry set up 11
committees to monitor core industries, including cars,
aerospace, and chemicals.  Tremonti may be considering a similar approach, declaring
as strategic four industries -- food, energy, defense and
telecommunications, and requiring government approval for any
foreign takeover,  Corriere della Sera  reported, without saying
where it got the information.  Lactalis could still be challenged by Italian shareholders.
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-largest bank and the holder
of about 2 percent of Parmalat, has sought support to keep the
dairy company in national hands. Ferrero SpA, maker of the
Nutella chocolate spread, said that it favors Italian ownership
of Parmalat.  Granarolo SpA, Italy’s second-biggest dairy company, has
also shown interest. Granarolo sees “no common interest” with
Lactalis on Parmalat, Chairman Gianpiero Calzolari said in an
interview. Granarolo and Ferrero didn’t get as far as holding
direct talks on Parmalat, he said.  Industry Moves  Lactalis, a French cooperative that has a dairy joint
venture with Nestle SA, raised its stake in Parmalat days after
it emerged that  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  was in exclusive talks to buy
50 percent of Yoplait from PAI Partners. Lactalis’s 1.4 billion-
euro ($2 billion) bid for all of Yoplait was rejected last year.  The Parmalat share purchase and negotiations for Yoplait
are the latest moves in a wave of dairy consolidation. PepsiCo
Inc. in December agreed to buy a controlling stake in Russian
dairy company Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC to become the biggest
food-and-beverage company in  Russia . General Mills most recently
acquired the Mountain High yogurt business from Dean Foods Co.  The median multiple paid for dairy assets in the last
decade is about 10 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  