-- 
How I Flew Off an Austrian Mountain and Survived: Nadja Brandt

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-03-22T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/i-jumped-off-an-austrian-mountain-and-survived-with-a-smile-nadja-brandt.html
As I prepared to jump off the top
of an Austrian mountain, attached by a harness to a 30-foot-wide
nylon canopy, I looked down and saw the tiny speck of a village
where I was supposed to land.  Two eagles circled above on that March day when my
instructor and I sailed through the clear blue sky in a tandem
 paraglide . The birds have been known to dive-bomb gliders, but
thankfully they were in a cordial mood that day.  After we leapt off the summit from 7,644 feet (2,330
meters), strong wind bursts lifted us even higher, making the
red-roofed houses below look miniature and surreal. Twenty-five
minutes later, after a wind-rattling ride, we both landed gently
on a field at the edge of town.  Paragliding is one of many thrills visitors can experience
in the scenic mountains of  St. Anton  in western  Austria , a ski-
resort area featured in Robert Redford’s 1969 film  “Downhill
Racer.”  But it’s far from the only one. The biggest draw is
skiing the seemingly endless terrain of groomed and “off
piste,” or unprepared, slopes.  The scenery in the Arlberg region, where the highest peak
is 9,233 feet (2,811 meters), is spectacular. Treeless
mountainsides stretch in all directions and each new run -- some
with heated chairlifts and soft-cushion seats -- reveals a
smorgasbord of skiable terrain.  Skiers and boarders can cruise the 160 miles (257
kilometers) of groomed slopes, or explore the 114 miles of
virgin trails if snow conditions and visibility permit. Visitors
typically can enjoy the area through late April.  Icy Morning  During my visit,  temperatures  were above freezing, melting
the top layer of snow in the daytime. It got much colder at
night, refreezing the runs and creating icy conditions in the
morning.  The top of the Rendl lift provides several intermediate and
off-piste, black-diamond slopes that are lovely in the afternoon
when the snow has been softened by the sun. There are also great
trails off the Kapall lift. Mattun, where the steep, ungroomed
mogul run exposes many rocks on this sunny day, is best for
experts.  Another nice day can be spent on the mountains around the
picturesque town of  Stuben , which has an old red-roof church and
houses with carved wooden balconies. To get there from St.
Anton, you must ski down to the village and catch two of the
Albona lifts to reach the top.  The effort is rewarded with more beautiful sights and
exciting off-piste mogul runs. You can top it all off at the
mountain’s peak hut with a delicious serving of Germknoedel, a
sweet dumpling filled with plum paste and smothered in vanilla.  Karaoke Songs  Toward the end of the day, most runs are crowded with
skiers looking to get back to the hotel for a steam bath or a
glass of wine. This can make the return a hairy endeavor: Some
slopes leading to the village are very narrow and bumpy.  Many skiers stop for refreshments at slope-side watering
holes, such as the infamous  Mooserwirt . Here the owner offers
karaoke (often loudly accompanied by the patrons) of folksy
German songs that wax poetic about lost love and too much
drinking.  Some ski huts include fancy restaurants with white linens
and tableside champagne coolers. One is the  Hotel Goldener Berg 
above the town of Lech, where crispy Wiener Schnitzel with
parsley potatoes and warm Apfelstrudel beckon. Dress code is
casual: ski boots and designer shades.  Most hotels in St. Anton or neighboring towns have
amenities such as ski lockers and changing rooms in the
basement. Many also offer “Halbpension,” which includes an
elaborate breakfast buffet and a multicourse dinner.  Nude Bathing  They also usually offer indoor pools and hot tubs as well
as saunas, which some customers enjoy in the buff.  If you have the energy, a fun place for dancing is the Post
Keller on the ground floor of Hotel Post. A great place for a
cheese fondue is Train in the center of town. Reservations are
recommended.  If you’re flying out of  Zurich  -- a two-hour drive from St.
Anton -- a final night in the old part of town is a must. During
my visit, a Swiss carnival had just started, featuring elaborate
costumes and street music.  At  Cafe Schober , guests sing along with the in-house
pianist and enjoy fresh desserts while sitting on quirky baroque
furniture, surrounded by red velvet walls under low-hanging
chandeliers.  Rooms at Hotel Post cost 181 euros ($257) per person daily
in March, based on a weeklong stay from Saturday to Saturday.
This includes a breakfast buffet, dinner and use of the wellness
center. Massages are also available, with a full-body, 50-minute
session costing 55 euros.  Information: +43-5446/22130;  http://www.hotel -
post.co.at/en/.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 