-- 
Li Ka-Shing’s REIT Will Start First Hong Kong Yuan Initial Offering Today

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-03-23T03:54:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/li-ka-shing-s-reit-to-start-first-hong-kong-yuan-ipo-today-1-.html
Billionaire Li Ka-shing’s real
estate investment trust may begin gauging investors’ interest
for  Hong Kong ’s first yuan-denominated initial public offering
today, according to terms for the sale.  Hui Xian, as the REIT is called, will sell about 2.7
billion existing shares, or 40 percent of the company in the IPO,
giving it a market capitalization of about 28 billion yuan ($4.3
billion), according to a sales document obtained by Bloomberg
News. About 80 percent of the shares will be offered to
institutional investors and the rest to retail investors in Hong
Kong, the terms show.  The sale may pave the way for other Hong Kong developers to
follow with similar offerings as Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd. seeks to widen its product offerings to compete in the
region. Hui Xian offers investors in Hong Kong, where yuan-
denominated bank deposits reached a record $57 billion in
January, a way to bet on appreciation in the Chinese currency
while getting higher yields than on deposits.  “The market has been keenly anticipating such a yuan-
denominated REIT, which looks attractive given the currency’s
appreciation,” said Katie Chan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Haitong International Securities Group Ltd. “The yield for the
REIT seems a bit lower than the market average.”  The yuan has gained 2.4 percent against the  Hong Kong
dollar  in the past six months.  Lower Yields  The IPO is backed by the Oriental Plaza properties in
central Beijing, the terms show. Oriental Plaza, covering
100,000 square meters (1.1 million square feet), is situated
along Beijing’s Changan Avenue. It consists of eight premium
office towers, a shopping mall, a Grand Hyatt Hotel and serviced
apartments, according to Oriental Plaza’s  website .  Hui Xian is expected to yield 3.72 percent to 4.06 percent
in 2011 and 4.2 percent to 4.5 percent in 2012, the terms show.
The REIT’s revenue rose to 2.27 billion yuan last year from 1.97
billion yuan in 2009, according to the terms.  Hong Kong-listed  Sunlight Real Estate Investment Trust (435) ,
backed by office and retail properties in Hong Kong, is forecast
to yield about 6.8 percent in 2011 and 5.8 percent in 2012,
while the forecast yield for Champion Real Estate Investment
Trust is about 4.7 percent for 2011 and 2012, according to
Haitong’s Chan.  BOC International Holdings Ltd., Citic Securities
International Co. and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are managing the sale.  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , the Hong Kong developer
controlled by Li, owns 33.4 percent of Oriental Plaza, while
affiliate  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  holds 18 percent, according to
the companies’ 2009 annual report.  IPO Fallout  Managers for the IPO are scheduled to take orders for stock
from March 30 through April 11, according to the terms. The
listing is expected to be on April 19.  At least seven companies worldwide cancelled or delayed
IPOs in the past 10 days as Japan’s nuclear crisis roiled
markets, making first-time sales more difficult to complete.
 Lagardere SCA (MMB) ,  France ’s largest publisher, delayed the initial
share sale of Canal Plus because of market volatility following
the quake in  Japan , the company said in a statement on March 16.  Hilong Holdings Ltd., a Chinese provider of oilfield
services, scrapped a plan to raise as much as $190 million from
a Hong Kong IPO. Hilong won’t proceed with the offering because
of “unforeseen market conditions,” and will return investors
money, the company said in a Hong Kong stock exchange filing on
March 21.  The 10 new stocks that started trading in Hong Kong this
year fell an average 8.1 percent from their IPO prices by
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Seven of the
10 companies traded below their initial offer prices, based on
yesterday’s close.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net 
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net 
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 