-- 
Libya Command Dispute Roils Allied Campaign Against Qaddafi

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-22T18:49:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/libya-command-dispute-over-roles-of-nato-u-s-hampers-coalition-campaign.html
Norway and  Italy  said their
participation in air operations over Libya depends on settling
who will command the mission, as members of the coalition split
over what role to assign to NATO.  The U.K. and Italy want the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization to take over the leadership of military operations
in Libya, a step resisted by  France  and other members of the
alliance, including Turkey. The U.S., which is now running the
missions, says it will turn over the command role in days.  “This command-and-control business is complicated, and we
haven’t done something like this kind of on-the-fly before,”
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  told reporters in Moscow
today. “It’s not surprising to me that it would take a few days
to get it all sorted out.”  The air assault on  Libya , which began with French jets
attacking Libyan tanks on the outskirts of the rebel-held town
of Benghazi, is in its fourth day. Attacks have included at
least 124  Tomahawk  cruise missiles fired from U.S. and U.K.
destroyers and submarines, global positioning system-guided
bombs dropped from U.S.  B-2  stealth bombers flying from Whiteman
Air Force Base in  Missouri , and laser-guided GBU-12  Paveway  II
bombs dropped from  AV-8B  Harrier jump jets flying from the USS
Kearsarge off Libya’s coast.  ‘Matter of Days’  President  Barack Obama , speaking in Santiago,  Chile ,
yesterday said the U.S. would hand off its leadership role “in
a matter of days, not a matter of weeks.”  Obama talked today with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and the three leaders
agreed that NATO should have a “key role” in command of the
air campaign,  Ben Rhodes , the U.S. deputy national security
adviser for strategic communications, told reporters traveling
with Obama in  South America .  The discussions about the command structure are continuing,
Rhodes said, adding that the action in Libya “is not strictly a
NATO operation.”  The alliance today agreed to use force to enforce the UN
arms embargo against Libya and to put assets on standby to
police the no-fly zone “if needed,” Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said in a statement in Brussels.  NATO’s Role  Italy has called for NATO to take over, citing concern over
the “multiplying centers of command.” Foreign Minister Franco Frattini said yesterday Italy will “reflect” on the use of its
seven bases and may take back control of them unless NATO
assumes leadership.  Sarkozy, one of the most vocal proponents of the no-fly
zone, said full command by NATO risked prejudicing non-NATO Arab
forces. Germany and  Turkey , two major NATO members, have opposed
putting the alliance in charge.  Turkey may be a key in the debate. Obama and Turkey’s Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  spoke by telephone yesterday and
“reaffirmed their support” for the UN mandate, the U.S. said
in a statement. Still, the Turkish leader was non-committal
about the future support of the operation.  Erdogan said Turkey is “aware of command and control
capabilities of NATO but declined to discuss what more Turkey
may do on Libya,” Rhodes said.  NATO must have “an important role to play in terms of its
unique capabilities in command and control,” he said.  Beyond the Alliance  The coalition arrayed against Libya includes non-NATO
countries and “not every single NATO ally is going to be
participating in the enforcement of the no-fly zone.”  The lack of a defined structure prompted  Norway  to keep its
fighter planes grounded on the island of Crete until the chain
of command is clear, said Eskil Grendahl Sivertsen, a spokesman
for the Ministry of Defense.  “We have now deployed six fighter jets, which are in
Crete,” Grendahl Sivertsen said by phone. “They are ready to
be put into action as soon as the command-and-control structure
is in place.”  A British military spokesman said the operation is running
smoothly even without certainty over the future command
structure.  “Clearly there is a lot of discussion going on at NATO at
the political and diplomatic level,” Major General John Lorimer
told reporters in  London  today. “You can’t just hand over and
walk out the door.”  Joint operations at the Gioia del Colle airbase, near Bari
in southern Italy, are “working very well,” Lorimer said.  Optimism on Agreement  European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton 
expressed optimism that NATO eventually will take overall
command of the Libyan mission.  “The discussions we’ve been having with NATO indicate that
will be the way forward,” Ashton told the European Parliament’s
foreign affairs committee in Brussels. “NATO is doing its
planning now. I don’t know when that will be.”  Steve Field, a spokesman for Cameron, said coalition
members are “making progress” on settling control of the
operation.  NATO’s requirement for consensus among its members is a
roadblock in the Libya case because at least a few members don’t
support the action, said Kurt Volker, a former U.S. ambassador
to the alliance who is now managing director for the Center for
Transatlantic Relations in Johns Hopkins University’s School of
Advanced International Studies in  Washington .  Non-Lethal Measures  “At best, NATO will be able to agree on some non-lethal
supporting measures, rather than broader measures to support the
coalition effort,” Volker said in an e-mail response to
questions.  Still, those steps may be useful to “lay a basis for
further NATO solidarity down the road as the issue evolves.”  Gates told reporters traveling with him to  Russia  on March
20 that there are a couple of ways the coalition command and
control could be arranged. One would involve British and French
leadership, another would be “the use of the NATO machinery,”
he said.  “I think we just have to work out the command and control
that is most accommodating to all of the members of the
coalition,” Gates said. “So the question is if there is a way
we can work out NATO’s command-and-control machinery without it
being a NATO mission and without a NATO flag and so on.”  Obama, Sarkozy and Cameron have declared that their
political objective is to force  Muammar Qaddafi  from power after
more than four decades. The UN March 17 Security Council
resolution calls for a cease-fire and authorizes air and sea
forces to protect civilians, not topple the regime.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Moscow at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  