-- 
Michigan Ex-Governor Granholm Said to Reject Consumer Bureau Job

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-03-22T17:45:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/michigan-ex-governor-granholm-said-to-reject-consumer-bureau-job.html
Jennifer Granholm, the former
Michigan governor, turned down an overture from the Obama
administration to head the new Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, according to two people briefed on the matter.  Granholm, who left office on Jan. 1 after two terms as
governor, is an instructor in law, public policy and business at
the  University of California  at Berkeley, according to a Jan. 24
announcement from the university.  Administration officials also discussed recruiting former
Ohio Governor Ted Strickland for the post, said one of the
people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks
aren’t public. Strickland, who lost his bid for re-election last
year, said today that he wasn’t approached about the job.  Liz Boyd, a spokeswoman for Granholm, declined to comment
on any discussions about the consumer bureau. She said the ex-
governor has “put her plans in place for the year,” which
include her teaching and book-writing.  Elizabeth Warren , the Treasury Department and White House
adviser charged with setting up the agency, hasn’t been publicly
ruled out by the administration as a nominee for the director’s
job. President  Barack Obama  appointed her to the adviser’s role
after Democratic lawmakers questioned whether she could win
Senate confirmation.  Warren said today in an interview with CNBC that “there is
a process in place that the president is using” to find the
agency’s first director, and declined to say whether she wants
the nomination. “The job I want is the job I have now,” she
said.  Community Bankers  Warren was speaking from  San Diego , where she attended a
convention of the  Independent Community Bankers of America . She
has courted community banks by touting the consumer bureau as an
ally that can help them compete with large Wall Street firms.  “This consumer agency is dedicated to serving America’s
families,” Warren said in her prepared remarks to the meeting.
“In the long run, these families will not be better off if only
a handful of big banks are left standing.”  Jen Howard, a spokeswoman for the consumer bureau, declined
to comment on the approaches to possible nominees.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has designated July
21 as the official start date for the consumer bureau. Under the
Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul, the new agency must have a
Senate-confirmed director before it assumes its full authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at +1-
   rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 