-- 
Libya Strikes Will Be Scaled Down as Allies Secure No-Fly Zone, U.S. Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-22T16:49:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/military-campaign-in-libya-to-ease-as-russia-calls-for-truce-1-.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
said the intensity of the military campaign in Libya will ease
in the next few days as his Russian counterpart Anatoly Serdyukov called for an immediate cease-fire by both sides.  Allied strikes against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s
forces are consistent with the United Nations  Security Council 
resolution on protecting civilians, Gates said during joint
remarks with Defense Minister Serdyukov in Moscow today. Gates,
who is scheduled to meet President  Dmitry Medvedev  later today,
also expressed puzzlement at the Russian comments.  “The coalition is going to great lengths to avoid civilian
casualties, and most of the targets are air defense targets
isolated from populated areas,” Gates said. “I also told
Minister Serdyukov that I thought the significant military
fighting that has been going on should recede in the next few
days.”  Allied forces expanded their air campaign over  Libya  to
thwart fighters loyal to Qaddafi and enable rebels to regain
control of cities.  Russia , which has veto power to block
resolutions at the Security Council, joined four members in
abstaining from last week’s vote that authorized the strikes by
the U.S. and its allies, action intended to limit civilian
casualties from the conflict.  Even so, civilian deaths in Libya “shouldn’t have been
allowed,” the Russian defense minister said today.  “We urge all belligerent parties to do their best to stop
the violence,” Serdyukov said. “We believe that only a
ceasefire and a dialogue between the belligerent parties would
be the surest way to” ensure the security of civilians.  ‘Crusade’  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said yesterday that the UN
resolution and resulting allied offensive amounts to a
“medieval call for a crusade,” a description Medvedev later
dismissed as “unacceptable.”  Medvedev defended Russia’s decision to abstain on the
resolution, saying the agreement “broadly” reflected the
country’s position.  “Russia supports the agreement among the international
powers that violence against civilians should be stopped,”
Serdyukov said today.  Gates Responds  Gates swiped back at the talk of civilian casualties, even
as he complimented Serdyukov’s balancing act between Putin and
Medvedev.  “He threaded the needle pretty well between them,” Gates
told reporters traveling with him after the meeting. “It
sounded to me like his comments were closer to President
Medvedev” rather than Putin.  Gates said he’s “a little curious, frankly, about the tone
that has been taken.” He said “the vast majority” of civilian
casualties have come at the hands of Qaddafi’s forces.  “We’ve been very careful about this,” he said. “It’s
almost as though some people here are taking at face value
Qaddafi’s claims about the number of civilian casualties, which
as far as I’m concerned are just outright lies.”  Gates and Serdyukov also discussed cooperation in
 Afghanistan , missile defense and the new Strategic Arms
Reduction Treaty, the defense chiefs said.  Missile Defense  Gates is the latest high-level Obama administration
official to visit Russia in recent weeks for talks on missile
defense. The U.S. aims to end Russian leaders’ opposition to the
system, insisting it is intended to guard against potential
attacks from  Iran  rather than to weaken Russia’s offensive
capabilities.  Vice President Joseph Biden earlier this month said the
U.S. seeks an agreement with Russia on missile defense “this
year.” Cooperation on “this once-contentious issue” will be a
“game changer,” Biden said in a speech at Moscow State
University on March 10.  While the defense chiefs didn’t achieve a breakthrough
today, officials had said that wasn’t the purpose of this trip.  “We spent much time discussing missile defense because
this is one of these issues in which neither we nor our U.S.
counterparts have a simple and unequivocal answer to,”
Serdyukov said.  Serdyukov said the discussions between the two sides will
continue.  “We have a common understanding that cooperation is better
than confrontation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Moscow via 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  