-- 
Mills, Fallon Sue News Corp., Detective in Phone-Hacking Scandal

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-22T18:44:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/mills-fallon-sue-news-corp-detective-in-phone-hacking-scandal.html
David Mills, the former husband of
U.K. lawmaker Tessa Jowell, and jockey Kieren Fallon sued a  News
Corp. (NWSA)  unit and the private detective at the center of the U.K.
phone hacking scandal.  The lawsuits were filed on March 18 in the  High Court  in
London against News Corp.’s News Group Newspapers and Glenn Mulcaire, the private detective who was jailed over claims he
accessed voicemail messages of the royal family. Jowell filed a
suit against the Metropolitan Police last week to find out if
they had evidence her phone was hacked, according to two people
familiar with the case. Details on the suits weren’t immediately
available from the court.  More than a half dozen celebrities, including actress
Sienna Miller, have sued over claims their private voicemail
messages were illegally accessed for stories at News Corp.’s
News of the World newspaper. Actor Jude Law, who has had a
relationship with Miller, filed a lawsuit against the
Metropolitan Police yesterday.  News of the World spokeswoman Hayley Barlow declined to
comment.  Last week, U.K. sports agent Sky Andrew, who’s suing News
of the World over phone hacking claims, won a bid to force the
Metropolitan Police to hand over evidence obtained in a related
criminal probe. Mulcaire and the paper’s former royal editor
 Clive Goodman  were jailed in 2007 for accessing the phone
messages of members of the royal family.  A judge in 2007 dismissed U.K. fraud charges against Fallon
and five others midway through a trial over race-fixing claims.
Police and prosecutors had spent three years preparing the case
alleging Fallon conspired to fix as many as 27 races.  Prosecutors in  Italy  in February received approval to
restart a bribery trial against Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who is accused of paying Mills $600,000 to lie on
his behalf in another trial, Ansa newswire said. It’s one of
four trials the premier faces this year including for alleged
prostitution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story. 