-- 
Indian Point Plant Safe, Japan Accident Unlikely, NRC Says

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-03-22T18:44:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/indian-point-plant-safe-japan-accident-unlikely-nrc-says-1-.html
Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s Indian Point
nuclear power plant in New York is safe and a U.S. accident
similar to  Japan ’s atomic disaster is unlikely, federal
officials told the state’s lieutenant governor, Robert Duffy.  “The robust design of U.S. plants makes it highly unlikely
that a similar event could occur in the  United States ,” the
 Nuclear Regulatory Commission  said today in an e-mail after
meeting Duffy and other state officials.  The crisis at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant after a 9.0
magnitude earthquake and tsunami should prompt the U.S.
regulator to shut the Indian Point reactors, New York Governor
 Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, said March 19. Indian Point is about
24 miles north of  New York  City.  While a report last year found “slightly higher seismic
risk for the Indian Point reactor,” it was “still within
safety margins,” the NRC said. After Japan’s earthquake and
tsunami, the agency “will look to see if there may be any
safety enhancements needed for a number of plants, including
Indian Point.”  New York officials can join NRC officials at plant
inspections and have access to the site’s seismic data, the
agency said.  Duffy spokesman, David Doyle, didn’t immediately respond to
a voicemail or e-mail seeking comment.  The two reactors at Entergy’s Indian Point plant began
operating in 1974 and 1976, according to NRC data. The  operating
licenses  are set to expire in 2013 and 2015, according to the
NRC. Entergy has applied to extend the licenses for 20 years.  90-Day Review  The NRC, which says U.S. reactors are designed to withstand
earthquakes, tsunamis and natural disasters, announced yesterday
a 90-day review of U.S. plant safety in light of Japan’s crisis.
An initial report will be released after 30 days, the NRC said.  The agency granted a 20-year license extension yesterday to
Entergy’s  Vermont  Yankee nuclear plant in Vernon, Vermont. The
decision was based on reviews completed before the March 11
earthquake and tsunami in Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  