-- 
ING CEO Hommen Waives Bonus After Criticism From Lawmakers

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-03-22T11:05:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/ing-ceo-hommen-waives-bonus-after-criticism-from-lawmakers-2-.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  scrapped proposed
executive bonuses after the pay policy of the bailed-out lender
sparked criticism, Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen said.  “The variable remuneration for the management board for
2010 threatens to inflict renewed damage to the recovering trust
of our customers and society,” Hommen, 68, said in a letter to
Dutch newspaper De Volkskrant. “We have underestimated the
signal this sends to society.” ING spokesman Raymond Vermeulen
confirmed the letter.  ING last week  said  Hommen would get a 1.25 million-euro
($1.77 billion) bonus, split equally between cash and shares,
after the biggest Dutch financial-services company reported its
first profit in three years. That triggered criticism from
lawmakers and Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said he
was “disappointed” as the Amsterdam-based bank still has to
repay 5 billion euros of state aid.  “This is a very good move” by ING’s top management, de
Jager said in a post on his Twitter account today. “This goes
further than agreements made in the past.”  The finance minister last week said he plans to propose
legislation banning banks that need state aid in the future from
paying bonuses as soon as possible.  “Last time, the deal was no profit, no bonus,” he said on
Dutch television on March 20. “I now plan to introduce
legislation with much stricter rules. As long as a bank is on
the government drip, it cannot pay bonuses to its executives.”  ING’s board members have also agreed to forgo a 2 percent
pay rise in 2011, Hommen said. The CEO’s base salary was 1.35
million euros last year. ING had net income of 3.22 billion
euros last year, compared with losses in 2009 and 2008.  The bank and insurer has repaid half of the 10 billion-euro
bailout it received in 2008. ING earlier this month said it
plans to return another 2 billion euros on May 13, while aiming
to complete the repayment by May 2012.  Hommen, who stepped down as chairman of ING’s supervisory
board to become CEO in 2009, also faces the task of divesting
the firm’s insurance operations and selling its U.S. online bank
to comply with European Union conditions for approval of the
state aid.  The remuneration proposed last week was in line with
agreements made with the Dutch state and a self-regulatory
banking code that took effect in 2010, Hommen and de Jager said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  