-- 
Liquidnet Seeks Emerging-Market Bourse Alliance, CEO Merrin Says

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-03-22T17:20:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/liquidnet-seeks-emerging-market-bourse-alliance-ceo-merrin-says.html
Liquidnet Holdings Inc., a trading
platform used by institutions to buy and sell large blocks of
shares, is in talks to forge an alliance with an emerging-market
exchange, its chief executive officer said.  New York-based Liquidnet has spoken with bourses in  Asia 
and  South America , Chief Executive Officer Seth Merrin said in
an interview at the World Exchange Congress in Madrid today. The
company started offering Indonesian equities earlier this year
and Malaysian stocks last November.  “There are lots of opportunities in emerging markets,”
Merrin said, declining to be more specific. “Exchanges need to
go global and be a conduit for their customers.”  In January, Liquidnet and SIX Group, the owner of
Switzerland’s stock exchange, said they will allow members of
both firms to trade on European and Swiss markets. The agreement
will start in the second quarter, pending regulatory approval.
Liquidnet will give Swiss Stock Exchange members the ability to
trade 3,600 securities in  Switzerland , the U.K.,  France ,  Germany 
and the Netherlands.  The company allows customers to trade blocks of shares in
two dark pools and executes customer orders on exchanges through
algorithms, or trading strategies, that break larger buy and
sell requests into smaller pieces. Dark pools, which don’t
display prices, are being probed by regulators in both  Europe 
and the U.S. because of concern that their lack of transparency
increases price volatility.  Liquidnet claims more than 620 asset management clients and
offers trading in 38 markets. It said it traded 52 billion euros
a day on average in the fourth quarter with an average European
execution size of 1.04 million euros in 2010.  Merrin agreed a settlement with rival Investment Technology
Group Inc. about an intellectual-property dispute on March 11.  “We just kissed and made up,” Merrin said today. “I
don’t think we are going to start dating soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  Madrid  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  