-- 
Iran Cited for Arms Embargo Violations, Rockets for Taliban

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-22T21:07:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/iran-cited-for-arms-embargo-violations-rockets-for-taliban.html
U.S., British, French and German
diplomats today cited evidence of a growing number of illegal
arms exports by Iran, including the seizure earlier this month
of rockets intended for the Taliban militia in  Afghanistan .  “ Germany  is concerned about the high number of violation
cases that were recently uncovered,” Ambassador Peter Wittig
said in remarks to the  United Nations  Security Council. “Many
involve the extensive delivery of weapons from Iran to unstable
regions in West Africa and the Middle East.”  Britain’s ambassador, Mark Lyall Grant, reported on the
seizure in February of weapons by Afghan and allied troops in
Afghanistan of 48 Iranian-made rockets that were being smuggled
to the Taliban. The 122-millimeter rockets have a range of 13
miles, the  Associated Press  reported.  “Detailed technical analysis together with the
circumstances of the seizure leave us in no doubt that the
weaponry recovered came from  Iran , despite the fact that they
were crudely doctored to make it look as though they originated
in a country represented on this council,” Lyall Grant said.
“This is completely unacceptable and not the behavior of a
responsible neighbor.”  The other recent case involved cargo seized by Israel on
March 15 from a ship en route to  Egypt  that included six land-
to-sea missiles. They would have significantly boosted the
“weapons capabilities of terrorist organizations” in the Gaza
Strip, Israel’s army said. Also on the boat were 2,500 mortar
shells, two radar systems, two missile launchers and about
67,000 bullets for Soviet-made Kalashnikov rifles, the army
spokesman’s office said in a statement.  Nigeria Seizure  Nigeria seized a shipment of Iranian rockets, grenades and
mortars in October, and  Italy  in September intercepted several
tons of what were described in the  Security Council  as “high
potential explosives” alleged to be destined for Syria and the
Gaza Strip.  The  Security Council  has adopted four sets of sanctions
intended to block Iran’s suspected development of nuclear
weapons. The measures, which demand that Iran halt uranium
enrichment, also bar exports of arms and explosives and urge all
nations to intercept Iranian cargo suspected of containing
banned materials.  Iran, whose mission to the UN didn’t respond to a request
for a comment on the allegations, says its nuclear program is
for peaceful purposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  