-- 
Irish Program Able to Meet Capital Needs, Regulator Says

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-22T12:26:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/irish-program-capable-of-assisting-with-banks-regulator-says.html
Ireland’s top financial regulator,
Matthew Elderfield, said the country’s bailout program is
capable of handling any outcomes from next month’s stress tests
on banks.  Regulators have earmarked as much as 35 billion euros ($50
billion) from the country’s bailout package as extra capital to
inject into the banks. The stress tests, which will be published
on March 31, will determine the final amount. Ireland may need
to spend more than 35 billion euros, Reuters reported yesterday,
citing unidentified euro-area sources.  “There’s a program in place that provides capability for
the Irish government to have assistance with any results that
come out of the stress tests,” Elderfield told reporters after
delivering a speech in Dublin today.  Ireland, which has already pumped 46.3 billion euros into
lenders after bad debts soared, is carrying out its third round
of stress tests to determine how much capital lenders should
hold in reserve against potential losses. The assessment’s
worst-case scenario includes a 60 percent decline in  house
prices  from their peak, a contracting economy and a jump in
unemployment.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said yesterday while banks
need more than 10 billion euros of capital, the cost is unlikely
“to be anything like the extravagant figures that have been”
discussed.  `More Transparent'  Elderfield said today that this year’s stress tests will be
“more conservative, more transparent” and have “stronger
external verification” than previous assessments.  As part of its 85 billion-euro bailout, Ireland agreed in
November to shrink the country’s banks by selling their assets.
The nation’s so-called viable lenders, including Bank of Ireland
Plc,  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , Irish Life & Permanent Plc and EBS
Building Society, need to cut their loan-to-deposit ratios to
122.5 percent, according to Noonan, from 170 percent today.  Any attempt to “dramatically” shrink lenders’ balance
sheets in the near-term could force Irish banks to seek an
additional 20 billion euros of capital,  Stephen Lyons , an
analyst with Dublin-based securities firm Davy, said in a note
to clients today.  “Forced deleveraging at an unrealistic pace would
 crystallize huge losses  by selling assets into depressed
markets,” Elderfield said in his speech.  While Irish and European authorities “would like to see
good progress” on deleveraging by 2013, “any disposals should
take account of prevailing market conditions,” Elderfield said
after his speech. “Any deleveraging has to take consideration
of the risk of fire-sale.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 