-- 
Israel’s Former President Katsav Gets Seven Years for Rape

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-03-22T09:12:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/israel-s-former-president-katsav-gets-seven-years-for-rape.html
An Israeli court sentenced former
President Moshe Katsav to seven years in prison for two charges
of rape, making him the highest-ranking official to receive a
jail term. Katsav’s lawyer said he will appeal.  Katsav was convicted on charges that were based on
accusations brought by former employees who worked for him
during his terms as president and tourism minister. The minimum
rape sentence is four years. The former president burst into
tears following the sentencing, Israel Radio said.  “This is a day of sadness and disgrace,” Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu said. “At the same time, it is a day of
pride in our justice system that has clearly set down the
principle that everyone is equal before the law.”  The 65-year-old Katsav stepped down as president, a mainly
ceremonial position, in January 2007 after Attorney General
Menachem Mazuz said there was evidence for an indictment. Shimon Peres, the former Israeli prime minister who shared the  Nobel
Prize  for pursuing peace with the Palestinians, succeeded Katsav
as president.  Since 2008, Israeli courts have indicted former Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert for fraud, sentenced former Finance
Minister Avraham Hirschson to five years imprisonment for theft
and money laundering, and convicted former Health Minister
Shlomo Benizri of taking bribes.  Appeal Expected  Katsav’s lawyer, Zion Amir, said the sentence and
conviction “trod” on his client’s rights and he will appeal.  “This is a sad day, a day of mourning,” Amir told
journalists outside the courthouse in remarks broadcast by
Channel Two.  According to the Dec. 30 verdict, Katsav twice raped a
woman who worked for him while he was tourism minister. It also
described inappropriate hugs, phone calls and comments he made
to others who worked for him when he was president. The court
also convicted him of sexual harassment and committing indecent
acts.  Katsav was elected to the Knesset in 1977 as a member of
the Likud Party and served as a lawmaker until he became
president in 2000. He was the second Israeli president in a row
to leave office prematurely. Ezer Weizman stepped down in 2000
following revelations that he received money from business
associates without reporting it to the authorities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 