-- 
Israel Attacks on Hamas-Ruled Gaza Kill at Least Seven After Mortars Fired

-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-22T18:43:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/israel-attacks-on-hamas-ruled-gaza-kill-at-least-seven-after-mortars-fired.html
Israeli soldiers fired tank shells
into the  Gaza Strip  killing four teenagers playing soccer and an
air strike left three other people dead in a separate incident,
the head of emergency services in Gaza said.  The Israeli army said in a statement that both strikes were
aimed at Palestinians firing mortar shells and rockets at
Israel.  “We regret the fact that civilians were killed, that was
not our intention, but this is the price from the threat that
Hamas poses to us,” army spokeswoman Avital Leibovich said by
phone.  A group of masked militants fired mortar shells at Israel
from near a playground, where teenagers were playing soccer,
said 28-year-old Mohammed, a eyewitness who asked that his full
name be withheld for fear of reprisal. He said minutes after the
mortars were fired the Israelis shot back.  The current escalation began on March 19, when the military
wing of the Islamic Hamas movement, which controls the Gaza
Strip, took responsibility for launching 50 mortar shells at
southern  Israel , injuring two Israeli civilians. Earlier this
month, Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said he has
plans to visit Gaza in a bid to end a nearly four-year split
with Hamas.  The Hamas government yesterday urged its armed wing, the
al-Qassam Brigades, not to give Israel a reason to strike Gaza.
In December 2008, Israel launched a three-week offensive against
Hamas in what it said was a bid to stop rocket fire. More than
1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were killed in that conflict.  Anti-Tank Attacks  Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007, ending a partnership
government with Abbas’s Fatah after winning parliamentary
elections the previous year. Hamas is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel, the European Union and the U.S.  At least 19 Gazans have been injured in the current round
of violence, according to Adham Abu Selmeya, chief of  emergency
services  in Gaza, who confirmed today’s deaths.  Israeli soldiers earlier today opened fire on Palestinians
preparing to shoot an anti-tank missile at a patrol, an Israeli
army spokeswoman said, speaking on condition of anonymity
according to regulation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 