-- 
Israel Army Fires at Gaza Strip Militants, Injuring Two

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 
2011-03-22T13:52:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/israel-army-fires-at-gaza-strip-militants-injuring-two-1-.html
Israeli soldiers opened fire on
Palestinians in the  Gaza Strip  who were preparing to shoot an
anti-tank missile at a patrol, an Israeli army spokeswoman said.
Two people were injured, raising to 19 the number of
Palestinians wounded in clashes over the past day, a Gaza
official said.  Soldiers on the Israeli side of the Gaza border fence
noticed Palestinians with a missile and shot, the Israeli
spokeswoman said today in a phone interview, speaking
anonymously according to regulation. Adham Abu Selmeya, chief of
 emergency services  in Gaza, said two Palestinians were wounded.
Israeli warplanes have hit seven targets in the Hamas-controlled
Gaza Strip since yesterday, the army spokeswoman said. Seventeen
people were injured in those strikes, Abu Selmeya said.  The current escalation began on March 19, when the military
wing of the Islamic Hamas movement took responsibility for
launching 50 mortar shells at southern  Israel , injuring two
Israeli civilians. Two Palestinians were killed that night,
Selmeya said. The Israeli army said they were trying to
penetrate the border fence. Of the 130 military projectiles
launched at Israel from Gaza since the start of the year, 55
have been in the past four days, the army spokeswoman said.  German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle today criticized
Israel’s strikes on Gaza “in the strongest terms,” telling
reporters in Berlin that “a new spiral of violence must be
prevented.”  Strike Gaza  The Hamas government yesterday urged its armed wing, the
al-Qassam Brigades, not to give Israel a reason to strike Gaza.
In December 2008, Israel launched a three-week offensive against
Hamas in what it said was a bid to stop rocket fire. More than
1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were killed in that conflict.  “Hamas isn’t interested in a large-scale escalation,”
said Bashir Bashir, a political analyst at Hebrew University in
 Jerusalem . He said the recent initiative by Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  to visit Gaza for
reconciliation talks with Hamas may also be “exerting immense
pressure” to keep the calm.  Abbas said on March 17 that he plans to visit Gaza in a bid
to heal a near four-year divide with Hamas. Hamas seized control
of Gaza in 2007, ending a partnership government with Abbas’s
Fatah after winning parliamentary elections the previous year.  Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
European Union and the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 