-- 
Mizuho May Face Action Over ATM Failures; Nishibori Turns Down Banker Post

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-03-22T07:28:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/mizuho-s-nishibori-refuses-bankers-group-post-on-atm-outages.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  will
face regulatory action after system failures following Japan’s
March 11 earthquake delayed salary payments to 620,000 Japanese
and forced the banking unit head to refuse a top lobbying post.  “We will ask Mizuho to submit a formal report at the
correct time” on the cause of the outage, Financial Services
Minister Shozaburo Jimi said at a press briefing today. “We
will scrutinize the contents of the report and take appropriate
action.”  The breakdown of Mizuho’s automated teller machines
nationwide last week delayed transactions valued at 829.6
billion yen ($10 billion) and curtailed access to funds as the
nation grappled with food, water and power shortages in the
aftermath of the temblor. Satoru Nishibori, president of Mizuho
Bank Ltd., said he won’t head the  Japanese Bankers Association .  Operations at ATMs located at Mizuho’s branches have
resumed, Nariyuki Murakami, a spokesman for  Japan ’s third-
biggest bank by market value, said today. Tokyo-based Mizuho
won’t accept money-transfer requests after 3 p.m.  The bank is studying the cause of the problem that started
on March 15, four days after the country’s most powerful
earthquake, delayed 1.16 million transactions.  Mizuho shares rose 7.9 percent to 150 yen in Tokyo Stock
Exchange as stocks rallied on signs the nuclear crisis is
easing. That curtailed Mizuho’s decline since March 10, the day
before the earthquake, to 8.5 percent, while the  Topix Banks
Index (TPNBNK)  dropped 7.7 percent.  Lobbying Position  The bankers association announced in September that
Nishibori would replace  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ’s
Masayuki Oku as chairman of the lobbying group from April 1. He
declined the position yesterday at a press conference in  Tokyo ,
according to spokeswoman Masako Shiono.   “The chairman plays a role in leading Japanese banks
overall, which is a very large responsibility,” Nishibori said,
according to Shiono. “To be honest, I don’t think it’s
appropriate to assume the post from April.”  The breakdowns follow a record magnitude-9 earthquake that
triggered a tsunami and radiation leaks at a nuclear plant north
of Tokyo. The system failure isn’t related to the earthquake,
Nishibori said on March 17.  Sumitomo Mitsui’s Oku will extend his tenure as head of the
Japanese Bankers Association for three months at the request of
his scheduled replacement due to the earthquake, Oku said at a
press conference this afternoon.  “I want to pass the baton to Mizuho when the situation
settles down,” Oku said.  The benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has fallen about 8
percent since March 10. The decline in the stock market will
have a limited effect on the capital of the country’s banks
because they are sufficiently capitalized, Jimi added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  