-- 
J&J Risperdal Letter Violated Consumer Law, Jury Finds

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   G a r y   H e n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-24T21:07:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/j-j-s-risperdal-letter-violated-law-south-carolina-jury-finds.html
(Corrects amount of potential penalties in second paragraph
of story published March 22.)  A  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit violated
consumer-protection laws by sending South Carolina doctors a
misleading letter about the safety and effectiveness of the
antipsychotic drug Risperdal, a jury concluded.  Jurors in state court in Spartanburg, South Carolina,
deliberated more than six hours before finding today that J&J’s
Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals unit engaged in “unfair
and deceptive acts” by sending a 2003 letter touting Risperdal
as better and safer than competing drugs to more than 7,000
doctors across the state. A judge will decide later whether the
drugmaker should pay $36 million in penalties over the mailings.  “The verdict they handed down is just and speaks the
truth,”  John White , a Spartanburg-based lawyer representing the
state, said in an interview. Jurors also found that J&J warning
label information on Risperdal was deceptive.  The state’s case centered on drug-safety claims that  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J and Janssen made in November
2003 correspondence to about 700,000 doctors across the U.S.,
including 7,200 in  South Carolina .  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  responded with a
warning letter saying J&J made false and misleading claims that
minimized the potentially fatal risks of diabetes and overstated
the drug’s superiority to competitors’ products.  ‘Acted Responsibly’  “We are disappointed,”  Greg Panico , a J&J spokesman, said
in a statement. “Janssen acted responsibly and believes it did
not violate” South Carolina law, he said.  South Carolina officials argued in the case that J&J sent
the letter to protect billions of dollars in sales of the
antipsychotic drug.  Risperdal’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. Risperdal
generated $3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of J&J’s
total sales, according to company filings. Sales of the drug
fell to $527 million last year, J&J said in a January earnings
report.  Risperdal Consta, the long-acting version of the
antipsychotic drug, generated $1.5 billion in sales last year
for J&J.  The case is the third of about 10 state lawsuits to be
considered by jurors over J&J’s Risperdal marketing campaigns.
In June, J&J won dismissal of  Pennsylvania ’s suit alleging the
company hid the drug’s diabetes risk and tricked regulators into
paying millions more than they should have for the medicine.  Louisiana Verdict  A Louisiana jury ordered the drugmaker in October to pay
$257.7 million in damages to that state for making misleading
claims about Risperdal’s safety. A judge later added $73 million
in legal fees to the award.  A West Virginia judge in a 2009 non-jury trial awarded
$3.95 million, finding the company misled doctors about the
risks and benefits of Risperdal. The state dropped its Risperdal
claim after J&J won an appeal, company officials said in
February.  Under South Carolina’s unfair trade practices law, Janssen
can be fined as much as $5,000 for each Risperdal letter sent to
South Carolina doctors. Judge Roger Couch will decide the
financial-penalty issue after an April 18th hearing.  “After the judge makes a determination as to damages, we
will consider our options,” Panico said in his statement.  The case is State of South Carolina v. Janssen
Pharmaceuticals, 2007-CP-4201438, Circuit Court for Spartanburg
County, South Carolina (Spartanburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Henderson in Spartanburg, South Carolina at
 wgaryh@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 