-- 
Japan Earthquake Hit Supplies of Key Chip Materials, BofA Says

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-03-22T05:49:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/japan-earthquake-hit-supplies-of-key-chip-materials-bofa-says.html
Global semiconductor shipments may
increase at a slower-than-expected rate this year as the  Japan 
earthquake disrupts production of materials, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said.  Quake-induced plant closures at producers of semiconductor
wafers including Shin-Etsu Chemical Co. and  Sumco Corp. (3436)  may have
led to the temporary loss of 30 percent of global capacity,
Merrill Lynch analysts including Daniel Heyler wrote in a report
yesterday. Global chip demand this year may expand between 2
percent to 3 percent less than the brokerage previously
projected, according to the report.  The disruption in supplies of wafers may prompt chipmakers
including Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. to find
alternative vendors to fill the shortfall, Merrill Lynch said.
The record magnitude-9 quake on March 11 and ensuing 20-foot
tsunamis also disrupted production of other materials such as
substrates and components used in hard-disk drives, it said.  Merrill Lynch expects supply disruptions will result in
some technology companies missing earnings projections in the
second and third quarters, according to the report.  Taiwan Semiconductor, the world’s biggest maker of
customized chips, can turn to wafer suppliers including  MEMC
Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)  and Siltronic AG to make up any
shortfall, the report said, citing Chief Executive Officer
 Morris Chang .  Production Halted  MEMC, based in St. Peters, Missouri, is expected to benefit
as chipmakers seek alternative wafer suppliers, Merrill Lynch
said. The U.S. company, which suspended production at its plant
in Utsunomiya in Japan following the quake, has a total of 12
manufacturing sites globally. Its shares rose 11 percent in New
York trading on March 14.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest maker
of computer-memory chips, is increasing orders for silicon
wafers to preempt any possible shortage of the material, Park
Hyun, a spokesman for the Ichon, South Korea-based company, said
by telephone today.  Substrate makers including Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Co. and
Hitachi Chemical Co. halted production at some sites after the
earthquake, according to Merrill Lynch.  Kobe Steel Ltd. (5406)  and
Furukawa Denko, makers of materials for hard disks, had
facilities that were damaged by the quake, the brokerage said.  The expected shortfall in semiconductor shipments this year
“should be made up in 2012” because of pent-up demand from
consumers and inventory restocking, according to Merrill Lynch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  