-- 
Japan Stocks May Lure International Investors on Valuations After Selloff

-- B y   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-03-22T18:03:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/japan-stocks-may-lure-international-investors-on-valuations-after-selloff.html
Investors from outside  Japan  may
accelerate purchases of the country’s equities after losses from
its worst earthquake drove valuations to their lowest level
since 2009, according to brokerages.  UBS AG and Nomura Holdings Inc. said overseas investors,
net buyers of Japanese stocks every week this year through March
11, are likely to purchase after the Topix index lost 9.3
percent last week. Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  on March
21 said the declines provided a “buying opportunity.” The
Topix ended at 868.13 yesterday, 20 percent above the intraday
low on March 15, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The index is
6.3 percent below its close before the magnitude-9.0 temblor.  Last week’s decline “made valuations of Japanese stocks
overwhelmingly cheap,” said Shoji Hirakawa, UBS AG’s chief
equity strategist for Japan. International investors are
“betting that the growth rate of the nation’s economy will
remain unchanged even after the quake,” he said.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average tumbled 10 percent to 9,206.75
last week following the March 11 quake and tsunami on concern
the ensuing nuclear accident would cripple the economy. The
combined drop of 16 percent on March 14 and March 15 was the
biggest over two days since the 1987 crash. The sell-off drove
the average valuation of 1,666 shares listed on the Topix index
to 0.91 times book value, the lowest since March 16, 2009.  ‘Starkly Undervalued’  “With most equity markets having had a lift during the
global recovery, Japan now stands out to foreign equity
investors for how starkly undervalued it is, especially when the
crisis gave it a whack,” said  James Holt , Sydney-based director
of BlackRock Investment Management ( Australia ) Ltd., which
oversees about $40 billion.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index trades at 2.2 times book
value, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index trades at 1.6 times,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Stocks in the MSCI Asia Pacific
excluding Japan Index fetch an average of twice the value of
their assets minus liabilities.  Foreign institutional investors, who represent  70 percent 
of  stock trading  in Japan, have been weekly net buyers of the
nation’s stocks since the period ending Oct. 29 through March
11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the longest
streak since the 26 weeks through Dec. 9, 2005. The  Tokyo  Stock
Exchange will release data for last week on March 25.  Portfolio ‘ Weight Loss ’  “Although it seems hedge funds cut their speculative
holdings in futures, I suspect overseas pension funds have
bought Japanese shares to boost their  asset allocation  because
of weight loss in Japanese equities last week,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and strategist at Tachibana Securities
Co. in Tokyo. “Foreign investors are likely to be net buyers
last week too.”  Japanese stocks rose for a second day yesterday as the
nation made progress in stabilizing reactors at a damaged
nuclear plant. The Nikkei climbed 4.4 percent to 9,608.32 on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange.  “Reactions from overseas I got through exchanging e-mails
after the quake were surprisingly positive,” Tokyo Stock
Exchange Group Inc. president Atsushi Saito said at a regular
press briefing yesterday in Tokyo. Overseas investors had been
net buyers of shares on the exchange during the March 14 and 15
rout, Saito said in a  note  on the bourse’s website on March 15.  Radiation containment units at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear reactors are intact and the situation at the plant “is
on the verge of stabilizing,” a U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission official said March 21. Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said he could see “light at the end of the tunnel” even as
smoke at two reactors hampered efforts to restore cooling
systems at the Fukushima plant.  “Foreign investors are taking the view that Japan will
recover from the earthquake,” said Masahiko Sato, an analyst at
Nomura. It’s “unlikely for them to sell far more Japanese stocks
than they buy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toshiro Hasegawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Hong Kong at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 