-- 
Japan’s Coal, Gas Demand Will Rise Following Earthquake, New Hope Says

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-03-22T06:04:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/japan-s-coal-gas-demand-to-rise-after-quake-new-hope-says-2-.html
Japan ’s coal and natural gas demand
is likely to rise after the nation’s biggest earthquake this
month knocked out nuclear-powered generators, said New Hope
Corp., an Australian coal producer.  “I would expect increased requirements to burn coal and
gas over the next few years,” Robert Neale, chief executive
officer of the Ispwich, Queensland-based company, said today in
a phone interview. Coking coal, in particular, would be needed
“because you’ll have at least five or more years of
reconstruction, which is going to require steel,” he said.  Japan, which depends on imported fuel for most of its needs,
is seeking alternatives to nuclear power after the March 11
quake forced the shutdown of 11 reactors. Five years may be
needed to rebuild after the disaster, the World Bank said.  New Hope  fell 0.2 percent to A$4.89 at the 4:10 p.m. close
in Sydney trading. Shares in the company have risen 0.8 percent
this year, compared with the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index’s 2.2
percent fall.  New Hope reported first-half profit of A$407 million ($409
million), a rise of more than fourfold following the sale of the
company’s stake in Arrow Energy Ltd. The company has a cash
balance of about A$1.6 billion following the A$238 million
acquisition of Northern Energy Ltd., Neale said.  Demand for coal will rise to make up for the lost nuclear
capacity because it’s cheaper than oil and gas, and also due to
negative public sentiment toward nuclear power, Andrew Harrington, an analyst Patersons Securities Ltd., said in a
report. “We believe that the negativity surrounding nuclear
energy will see increased demand for fossil fuels including and
especially coal.”  Coal producers likely to benefit from increased demand
include  Gloucester Coal Ltd. (GCL) , New Hope, Whitehaven Coal Ltd. as
well as developers  Aston Resources Ltd. (AZT) ,  Cockatoo Coal Ltd. (COK)  and
 Riversdale Mining Ltd. (RIV) , said Harrington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  