-- 
Japan's Bonds Rise on Speculation BOJ Fund Injections to Spur Debt Buying

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-03-23T06:26:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/japan-s-10-year-bonds-may-advance-after-central-bank-injects-record-funds.html
Japanese bonds rose, snapping a
two-day decline, on speculation the central bank’s injection of
a record amount of emergency funds into the financial system
will encourage investors to buy government debt.  Ten-year bond futures gained the most in a week after the
 Bank of Japan  said yesterday that lenders’ deposits at the
central bank more than doubled to 41.6 trillion yen ($515
billion) since the March 11 earthquake. Bonds also rallied and
stocks fell as companies announced production halts and new
tremors struck near a damaged nuclear power plant.  “The BOJ has injected more than enough funds to stem risk
factors in markets,” said  Akihiko Inoue , chief market analyst
in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Investors Securities Co., a unit of  Japan ’s
second-largest bank. “Bonds are being bought back as stocks
undergo a correction.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond fell 3.5 basis
points to 1.215 percent as of 3:22 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
1.3 percent security maturing in March 2021 gained 0.313 yen to
100.756 yen.  Ten year bond futures for June delivery advanced 0.33 to
139.73 at the afternoon close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the
biggest gain since March 15. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average
declined 1.7 percent.  The government estimates damage from the quake and tsunami
may reach 25 trillion yen, more than the 10 trillion yen cost of
the Kobe temblor in 1995, the Nikkei newspaper reported today.
Engineers at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant are unable to
connect power to one of four damaged reactors, marring progress
to cool the fuel rods, Hidehiko Nishiyama, a spokesman for the
Japan Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, told reporters today.  ‘Significant Effects’  “We’re going to see significant effects on production
capacity,” Bank of Japan board member Ryuzo Miyao said in a
speech in Oita, southern Japan. “There’s also a risk that
economic activity will be depressed by deteriorating corporate
and household sentiment due to uncertainty over the outlook.”  The Ministry of Finance will sell 2.6 trillion yen of two-
year notes tomorrow. The previous auction of the maturity on Feb.
24 attracted bids for 3.70 times the amount on offer, compared
with a ratio of 5.33 at the January sale.  “There’s little chance the market will destabilize with
tomorrow’s two-year sale because the BOJ has provided ample
liquidity since the earthquake,” said  Seiji Shiraishi , chief
economist at HSBC Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “Bonds are being
bought as stocks fall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Osaka  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  