-- 
Japan's Megaquake Is Template for U.S. Shock: Roger Bilham

-- B y   R o g e r   B i l h a m
-- 
2011-03-22T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/japan-s-megaquake-is-template-for-u-s-shock-commentary-by-roger-bilham.html
As the world’s attention remains
fixed on  Japan ’s crippled nuclear reactors, scientists are
beginning to understand the details of the megaquake that
brought so much ruin to Japan, saying it’s probably the largest
temblor to hit the nation in 1,000 years.  Seismologists have known for some time that over periods of
millennia such megaquakes occur. They pack the punch of three or
more major earthquakes into a single tumultuous rupture,
allowing several segments of long straight tectonic plate
boundaries to catch-up with a handful of inefficient adjustments
that arose in the past several hundred years.  The rarity of these events makes them difficult to study,
much less forecast, but we’ve now had three in less than a
decade: the 2004 Sumatra earthquake released twice as much
energy as the recent one in Japan, and last year’s Chilean
earthquake produced half as much. Clearly the time has come for
scientists to take up the challenge of working harder to try
forecasting these extreme geological events.  The March 11 earthquake ruptured a 300-by-100 square mile
area of the Pacific plate where it plunges into the Earth’s
mantle under Honshu, north of  Tokyo . In the past few hundred
years, earthquakes in the same region, though damaging, were
smaller, even if sometimes spawning monster tsunami with heights
near the epicenters exceeding 90 feet (27 meters).  Shocking Difference  Scientists expected more modest events, yet what happened
was stunningly different -- segments of the plate boundary that
had slipped more or less regularly, teamed up with those that
had been hung-up for centuries, in places driven by more than 50
feet of pent-up Pacific displacements.  The earthquake has caused major changes to the Pacific
coastline north of Tokyo. Thanks to several hundred global
positioning units that operated every 5 seconds during the
earthquake, we know that in less than 3 minutes the island of
Honshu expanded westward by up to 12 feet, adding acreage
equivalent to 150 soccer fields.  Like a stretched-out rubber band that’s been cut, the
coastal city of Sendai near the epicenter moved first 15 feet
toward the U.S. and then in the next 50 seconds snapped back 3
feet to where it now remains. Once the aftershocks are over, the
slow, inexorable compression of northern Japan will renew,
leading to more earthquakes.  Least Expected Effect  Yet it is the vertical motion of the Japanese coastline
that has caused the most serious of the nation’s post-earthquake
disasters, and was least anticipated by seismologists. The whole
of Honshu has sunk a little -- Tokyo itself by more than 4
inches and increasing northward. Starting some 50 miles north of
Tokyo and extending to near the northern tip of the island of
Honshu, the coastline sank not because of slumping or compaction
of coastal sediments, but due to the elastic rebound toward the
epicenter.  These same elastic stresses 10 miles to 100 miles offshore
warped a broad 10-foot to 15-foot bulge in the sea floor that
generated the disastrous tsunami. Thirty minutes later the
tsunami surged onshore as a wall of water up to 45 feet high.
Simultaneously, a mirror image of the tsunami raced eastward at
500 mph (805 kph), splashing sequentially the shores of  Hawaii ,
and coastal communities from  Alaska  to Patagonia, ultimately
raising global  sea level  globally by 1/100 of an inch.  Had Japan’s eastern shore not sunk as the sea surged toward
it, the tsunami that drove onshore would have been less
damaging, and its aftermath less tragic. Port facilities,
beaches and most important, the 16-foot-high tsunami barriers
for the Fukushima nuclear power plant, were lowered 3 feet by
the earthquake. The barriers needed to be twice as high to avoid
flooding of the facility.  Stress Triggers  The nightmare scenario now unfolding in Japan could get
worse. Seismologists have documented numerous times when an
earthquake in one place has stressed a neighboring area,
triggering another major tremor.  Could this month’s earthquake trigger what Japanese call
the  Tokai earthquake , which last ruptured the region south of
Tokyo in 1854? With a recurrence interval of 110 years, Tokyo’s
residents know this event is overdue. Ominous aftershocks have
been approaching Tokyo daily since March 11. A few sizeable
aftershocks have even migrated to its south.  U.S. Scenario  Have U.S. seismologists been too conservative in their
estimate for future earthquakes in  North America ? This seems
unlikely. The past 2,000 years of temblors on the  San Andreas
Fault  reveal none that have attained an intensity of magnitude
8. The 1812 New Madrid earthquakes near  Memphis ,  Tennessee , once
thought to be that strong, was downgraded to less than 7.5.  Yet this month’s megaquake is almost a template for the
magnitude 9.0 earthquake scientists expect to rock the Oregon-
Washington coastline. There the Juan de Fuca plate dives beneath
the North American plate in 9.0 earthquakes that occur every 300
years to 600 years from northern  California  to the Canadian
border, rupturing the plate boundary.  Seismologists think that a 9.0 earthquake will
simultaneously shake Vancouver, Seattle and  Portland . Since the
last one occurred 300 years ago, the next could strike
immediately, or possibly not for 200 years.  Could unexpected secondary effects accompany such an
earthquake? Almost certainly, and all eyes are now on Japan to
learn what impossible scenarios might now be considered
plausible.  (Roger Bilham is a seismologist at the University of
 Colorado . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Roger Bilham at  roger.bilham@colorado.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  