-- 
Japan Weighs Postwar-Style Reconstruction Agency, Injects Cash

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-03-23T03:40:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/japan-considers-postwar-style-reconstruction-agency-injects-record-cash.html
Japan  may set up a reconstruction
agency to oversee earthquake repairs, while data showed the
central bank pumped record liquidity into lenders, as the nation
grappled with its worst disaster since World War II.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters in Tokyo
the government will weigh “some sort of system or organization”
to oversee post-quake spending, adding that it’s too early to
say when a spending bill will be compiled. The Bank of Japan
said yesterday lenders’ deposits with the central bank more than
doubled since March 11, to 41.62 trillion yen ($515 billion).  Policy makers are girding for a drop in gross domestic
product that as deep as an annualized 12 percent in the second
quarter, according to Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. The
government, which releases its first monthly economic assessment
since the March 11 earthquake today, estimates the damage at as
much as 25 trillion yen, the Nikkei newspaper reported.  “The impact of the earthquake will hit the economy in late
March, but  consumer spending  wasn’t that good in January and
February to begin with,” said  Yoshimasa　Maruyama , a senior
economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo. “So there’s good chance
that the economy will shrink a bit in the first quarter.”  The Cabinet Office raised its assessment of the economy
last month, saying the nation was “emerging from a recent pause
in activity,” supported by increasing exports and industrial
output. The Bank of Japan last week said that while the economy
was coming out of a deceleration, production may drop and
corporate and household sentiment may worsen after the disaster.  Suspended Factories  Future assessments will need to address damage to much of
the northeast’s economy, and the disruptions to electricity and
distribution systems that’s spread south to Tokyo and beyond.
Toyota Motor Corp. said yesterday it will halt car assembly in
Japan through March 26.  Sony Corp. (6758)  said it shut five more plants.  The death toll following the disaster rose to 9,099 as of
last night, according to the  National Police Agency . Workers
were still struggling to gain control of the crippled nuclear
power plant 220 kilometers (137 miles) north of Tokyo.  “It is necessary to set up a full-scale administration
agency within the Cabinet to plan for basic reconstruction just
as the Economic Stabilization Board was set up after the war,”
ruling-party lawmakers including Kouki Kobayashi, Yukio Ubukata
and Jin Matsubara said in a statement.  Worse Than Kobe  Damage from the magnitude-9 quake and tsunami may linger
longer than the aftermath of the 1995 Kobe earthquake,  Bank of
Japan  board member Ryuzo Miyao said in a speech today.  Japanese stocks fell for the first time in three days today
after a series of earthquakes struck near the Fukushima nuclear
plant, which was crippled after the quake and tsunami. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average declined 1.6 percent to 9,455.06 at the
lunchtime break in Tokyo. The yen was little changed at 80.91
per dollar, in the wake of the coordinated sales on March 18 by
the Group of Seven that sent the currency tumbling that day.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters yesterday
the G-7 will monitor market developments. European Central Bank
Executive Board member Juergen Stark said in a March 18
interview with the Nikkei newspaper the group stood ready for
further steps if needed at Japan’s request.  Meantime, the BOJ will take appropriate action if needed,
Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  told lawmakers at an appearance
yesterday in the Diet, amid forecasts that the central bank will
further enlarge its asset-purchase program. He also reiterated
his warning against the central bank directly buying Japanese
 government bonds  from the  finance ministry .  Underwriting Bonds  “If a central bank starts to underwrite government bonds,
there may be no problems at first, but it would lead to a
limitless expansion of currency issuance, spur sharp inflation
and yield a big blow to people’s lives and economic
activities,” as has happened in the past, Shirakawa said.  By law, the central bank can directly buy JGBs only in
extraordinary circumstances with the permission of the Diet.
Vice Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said in parliament that
the government needed to be “cautious” in considering whether
to have the BOJ make direct purchases.  Bond sales, cuts to other spending and tax measures could
pay for reconstruction, Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister
 Kaoru Yosano  said yesterday. Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.
analysts led by  Robert Feldman  in  Tokyo  wrote in a note this
week that policy makers will likely implement “several”
spending packages of 10 trillion yen or more.  Loan Programs  Fiscal spending won’t be the only channel for stimulus,
according to Chotaro Morita, chief strategist at Barclays
Capital Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.  “We expect the utilization of government lending”
vehicles such as the Government Housing Loan Corporation and
Finance Corporation for Municipal Governments, as was done in
the wake of the 1995 Kobe earthquake, Morita wrote in a report
to clients yesterday. This would help reduce the increase in
government-bond issuance, he said.  In the wake of the devastation of World War II, Japan’s
government set up the Economic Stabilization Board in August
1946. Among its duties was to ration commodities and oversee the
revival of the nation’s industries.  To maintain short-term financial stability, BOJ policy
makers have added emergency cash every business day since the
quake. Lenders’ current-account balances at the central bank
yesterday exceeded the 36.4 trillion yen record set in March
2004, when officials were implementing so-called quantitative
easing measures to counter deflation. Deposits have climbed from
about 17.6 trillion yen on March 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  