-- 
Japan Property Stocks ‘Lagging Bounce,’ Prospect’s Freeze Says

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 
2011-03-22T03:16:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/japan-property-stocks-lagging-bounce-prospect-s-freeze-says.html
Curtis Freeze, founder of Prospect
Asset Management Inc., which manages $280 million and has been
investing in  Japan  for more than two decades, comments on the
impact of the earthquake and deadly tsunami on Japanese stocks.  On market reaction:  “We’ve seen the lows. We have had a strong bounce since
the lows of last Wednesday morning. We might have volatility
going forward. There will be good news followed by bad news, but
it’s good that we’ve been through the worst as far as the market
is concerned.”  On the long-term impact:  “There will be spending required, there will be companies
that benefit from that spending. On a personal level it’s very
hard for the people affected. On a corporate level, it’s very
brief, the impact should last about three or four months. We
will have downward revisions and most of those will be out of
the way in this March year-end set of results. Companies will
make plenty of allowances for whatever the impact is when they
announce the results over the next few months.  “The forecast for next year of course will be fairly
positive. That’s one reason we’ve digested the impact; it’s in
the price so to speak. Companies’ results will reflect whatever
allowances need to be made. Next year will reflect the recovery
and the spending on the recovery.”  On the impact on companies:  “Construction-related companies rebuilding the roads,
bridges, the housing” are set to benefit.  “Real-estate stocks have been hit overly hard. Most people
in  Tokyo  were relieved how little impact there was on housing in
Tokyo, on real estate in Tokyo; very few buildings were damaged.
Demand for housing, condominiums, real estate office will be
quite firm. These stocks are still lagging the bounce. Many of
them are still down 20, 30 percent from prior to the quake. The
survey of Tokyo real estate particularly the real estate owned
by the major real estate companies, and also the real estate in
REITs shows there’s been almost no effect on those properties.”  On investments:  “The construction stocks have had a run so I wouldn’t
chase them at this point.  “The housing stocks are much more interesting.”  Freeze said he’s been buying shares in “single-family
housing companies in Tokyo” including  Iida Home Max. (8880)   “None of their housing projects have been affected. They
haven’t been hit directly by the quake. The worry is of course
consumer confidence, will people buy housing after the quake.
And I think the answer is yes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  