-- 
Australian Stocks Gain, Japanese Futures Advance on Easing Nuclear Crisis

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-03-22T23:24:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/japanese-stock-futures-rise-on-easing-nuclear-crisis-oil-australia-gains.html
Japanese  stock futures  rose as
power was restored to a crippled nuclear plant in northern Japan
and after commodity prices increased. Australian stocks gained.  American depositary receipts of Hitachi Ltd., which
provides nuclear-power systems, gained 0.6 percent from the
closing share price in Tokyo yesterday. Those of Sekisui House
Ltd., a Japanese homebuilder, advanced 1.2 percent. Santos Ltd.,
 Australia ’s third-largest oil and gas producer, increased 0.7
percent in Sydney today.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
June closed at 9,545 in Chicago yesterday, compared with 9,530
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,510 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
rose 0.3 percent today.  New Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index was little
changed in Wellington.  “Anxieties about the nuclear issues aren’t gone yet, but
the situation is improving,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities
manager in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. “Some
industries and stocks that declined significantly lately will be
bought back.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1
percent today. The index retreated 0.4 percent yesterday as the
price of oil rose amid unrest in Libya and concern grew that
 Europe  won’t find an immediate solution to its debt crisis.  Crude oil for April delivery increased 1.6 percent to $104
a barrel in  New York  yesterday, the highest settlement since
March 9. The London Metals Exchange Index of prices for six
metals including copper and zinc climbed 0.9 percent.  Worst Disaster  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  plunged 10 percent last week on concern the
effects of the earthquake and damaged reactors will hurt a
recovery in the world’s third-largest economy.  Japan may set up a reconstruction agency to oversee
earthquake repairs, while data showed the central bank pumped
record liquidity into lenders, as the nation grappled with its
worst disaster since World War II.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters in Tokyo
the government will weigh “some sort of system or organization”
to oversee spending following the March 11 earthquake, adding
that it’s too early to say when a spending bill will be
compiled. The Bank of Japan said yesterday lenders’ deposits
with the central bank more than doubled since March 11, to 41.62
trillion yen ($513 billion).  Tokyo Electric Power Co. workers began restoring power to
the crippled Fukushima nuclear plant in northern  Japan  as
government tests showed radiation has leaked into the sea and
contaminated some food. Lights are on in the control room at
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant’s No. 3 reactor, while some lights are
on at reactor No. 4, the company said today. Reactors No. 5 and
6 were already supplied with electricity.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 3.4 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 2.9 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 1.5 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.3 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.4 times for the S&P 500
and 10.9 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in  Tokyo  at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 