-- 
JJB Landlords, Investors Back Lease Changes in Rescue Plan

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-03-22T17:24:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/jjb-landlords-investors-back-lease-changes-in-rescue-plan-2-.html
JJB Sports Plc (JJB) , an unprofitable
U.K. sporting-goods retailer, said most of its landlords and
investors voted in favor of a plan to revise lease terms to
prevent the company from failing.  More than 96 percent of JJB’s unsecured creditors voted in
favor of the so-called company voluntary arrangements, Wigan,
England-based JJB said in separate statements today. Investors
approved with 99 percent support a switch in the company’s
listing to London’s Alternative Investment Market next month.  The approval of the landlords, the company’s main
creditors, means JJB will avoid going into administration, which
would have meant property companies such as British Land Co. and
 Hammerson Plc (HMSO)  recovering only 1.1 percent of their debts,
according to KPMG consulting company, JJB’s adviser. It’s the
second time in three years that JJB has had to seek backing for
a voluntary-arrangement package.  “Following approval of the CVA proposals at the creditors’
meetings held this morning, approval by the shareholders this
afternoon further demonstrates the solid support for the
company’s turnaround,” Chairman Mike McTighe said in the
statement. “We would like to thank our landlords and creditors
who have supported the company in this crucial vote.”  JJB gained 3 pence, or 12 percent, to 29 pence, the highest
in four weeks, at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London  trading, more
than doubling the company’s value in the past two days to 37.5
million pounds ($61.4 million). That pared the decline in the
past 12 months to 85 percent.  Lower Rents  The agreements include lower rents and longer payment
periods, JJB said on March 3. The terms may enable the company
to close 89 stores by April 2013. Landlords may only get 25
percent of what they are owed, according to KPMG estimates.  The landlords’ support will save more than 6,100 jobs at
JJB, the  British Property Federation  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  JJB’s inclusion of a so-called clawback mechanism to
compensate affected landlords for some of their losses should
act as a precedent for similar deals in the future, Liz Peace,
the federation’s chief executive, said in the statement.  The retailer, whose main suppliers include  Adidas AG (ADS)  and
 Nike Inc. (NKE) , said March 15 that its four biggest shareholders,
including the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Trust, are
backing a share sale aimed at raising 65 million pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 