-- 
JPMorgan to Add China Branch After Hiring 20 Bankers

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-24T05:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/jpmorgan-to-add-sixth-branch-in-china-after-hiring-20-bankers.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-
biggest U.S. lender by assets, aims to tap Chinese companies’
demand for overseas credit as it hires bankers and adds branches
in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  The bank plans to open its sixth Chinese branch in
northeastern Harbin city this year, Ben Shenglin, who heads the
New York-based company’s wholesale banking unit on the mainland,
said in an interview in Beijing. The global corporate banking
unit in China, which 45-year-old Ben also heads, has hired about
20 bankers since it was set up in the past year, he said.  JPMorgan aims to arrange dollar-denominated loans, bond
sales and trade finance for Chinese banks and companies that are
stepping up overseas expansion plans, he said. Meeting the
rising demand for credit from the local operations of foreign
clients as  China ’s central bank asks lenders to set aside more
funds and raises rates is also a priority, he said.  “On the macro level, the domestic monetary tightening this
year means that credit in general has become more scarce for a
lot of companies,” Ben said. “The availability of loans is now
more important than the pricing. We have been focusing our
resources on our key clients.”  The People’s Bank of China last week raised banks’ reserve
requirements for the third time this year as it sought to curb
inflation. The level will rise to 20 percent for the nation’s
biggest banks, excluding any extra limits for individual lenders.  Investment Bank  JPMorgan offers corporate advisory, treasury and asset
management services in China to overseas companies’ local
operations, financial institutions and the foreign operations of
mainland firms, Ben said. The bank also won approval to set up
an investment banking joint venture in China, paving the way to
manage stock and bond sales, the regulator said on Jan. 6.  Ben, who was managing director and head of commercial
banking at HSBC Holdings Plc until March 2010, reports to
Muhammad Aurangzeb, JPMorgan’s global corporate banking head for
the Asia-Pacific region. The global corporate bank division’s
headcount worldwide climbed to 175 people in 2010 from 100, Ben
said.  The Chinese global corporate banking unit will in
particular focus on the financing demands of about 200 to 250
Chinese companies that have revenue of more than 3 billion yuan
($457 million) and are planning to expand overseas, Ben said.
Local manufacturers are borrowing more as they move factories to
countries that offer lower costs, and buy assets abroad to
acquire technology and brands, he said.  Chinese companies raised $5.02 billion from bonds
denominated in dollars, euros and yen in 2010, more than double
the $2.18 billion raised in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva Woo in Beijing at 
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  