-- 
Kenya Economic Prospects Positive Amid ’Serious Challenges’

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-22T15:30:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/kenya-economic-prospects-positive-amid-serious-challenges-1-.html
Kenya ’s economic prospects are
positive even though the country faces “serious challenges” this
year from a weak domestic currency, rising inflation and
climbing fuel prices, President Mwai Kibaki said.  “The government is undertaking fiscal and monetary measures
to maintain the economy on a high growth path,” Kibaki told
lawmakers today in  parliament , according to an e-mailed copy of
his speech from the Nairobi-based office of the presidency.  Kenyan inflation surged for the fourth consecutive month in
February to 6.5 percent, the highest level since October 2009,
as food and fuel costs rose, while the shilling weakened to a
17-year low against the dollar this month. Other risks facing
the economy this year include food shortages and livestock
losses in parts of the country affected by drought, Kibaki said.  “Despite the challenges that we have faced, the government
has remained focused on the expansion of our economy in line
with Vision 2030,” he said.  Vision 2030  calls for Kenya, East Africa’s biggest economy,
to become a middle-income country over the next two decades
through investment in infrastructure including roads, rail,
airports and ports, as well as expanding social services.  Economic growth accelerated to 5.4 percent in 2010, more
than doubling from 2.6 percent in 2009 and 1.7 percent the year-
before. The government expects the economy to expand as much as
8 percent over the next two years.  Kenya’s parliament will be asked to debate policies on
companies, limited-liability partnerships and insolvency,
designed to boost private investment, Kibaki said, in an address
marking the start of a new session of the legislative body.  Within the next three months, lawmakers are expected to
approve two pieces of legislation to create independent
commissions that will register voters, re-draw electoral
boundaries and resolve electoral disputes, Kibaki said.  Kenya’s next general elections are scheduled for 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 