-- 
Kenya’s Central Bank Unexpectedly Raises its Benchmark Lending Rate to 6%

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-22T14:01:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/kenya-s-central-bank-unexpectedly-raises-its-benchmark-lending-rate.html
Kenya’s central bank  unexpectedly
raised its benchmark interest rate, reversing a cut announced
two months ago, after the shilling fell to a 17-year low and
inflation accelerated for a fourth consecutive month.  The Monetary Policy Committee increased the key lending
rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 6 percent, the
Nairobi-based Central Bank of  Kenya  said in an e-mailed
statement today. All four economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
had forecast the rate would remain unchanged. At its last
meeting on Jan. 27, the central bank unexpectedly reduced its
benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point.  “Although a clear reversal of the bank’s earlier monetary
policy stance, there is little doubt that this measure was
needed,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research for
Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed note. “The
authorities needed to show a greater degree of concern about the
inflation outlook. This may be seen as only the first of several
rate increases still to come.”  Inflation surged to 6.5 percent in February, the highest
level since October 2009, as food and fuel costs rose. Higher
prices, particularly for oil imports that were previously
thought to be a temporary phenomenon, have become “persistent
and may have long-run effects,” the central bank said.  “This tightening will provide a solution to inflationary
pressure and will stabilize the  exchange rate  while still
protecting economic activity,” it said.  Shilling Depreciation  The shilling has depreciated 5 percent against the dollar
this year to its weakest level since March 1994 on increased
demand for the U.S. currency by oil importers as global crude
prices surge. The currency is ranked the world’s fourth-worst
performer this year after Suriname’s dollar, the Sudanese pound
and the Vietnamese dong, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The shilling gained 0.2 percent after the interest-rate
decision was announced, reversing an earlier loss, to trade at
84.94 per dollar as of 4:57 p.m. in Nairobi.  Prior to today’s increase, the central bank had cut the
benchmark rate by 3.25 percentage points since December 2008 to
encourage commercial banks to provide cheaper loans and spur
economic growth. In that time, the average commercial bank
lending rate dipped by less than a quarter of a percentage point
to 14.03 percent in January, according to the central bank’s
website.  Even as commercial lenders have failed to pass on the
reductions to their clients, credit has expanded. Domestic
credit  surged  24.7 percent in the year through November,
compared with 15.7 percent over the same period a year earlier,
according to data on the central bank’s website.  “It seems their interpretation is that the short-term
shocks are now likely to persist, so increasing the interest
rate is the right thing to do,” Fred Moturi, a fixed-income
trader at Sterling Investment Bank Ltd., said in a phone
interview today. “It appears the first thing they want is to
arrest inflation and I think they’ll deal with growth later.”  Economic growth in Kenya, the world’s largest exporter of
black tea, accelerated to 5.4 percent in 2010, from 2.6 percent
in 2009 and 1.7 percent the year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 