-- 
New Zealand on Edge of Recession After Christchurch Tremor Erodes Optimism

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 
2011-03-22T22:51:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/n-z-s-growth-nearly-stalled-before-quake-raised-recession-risk.html
New Zealand  will probably report
that growth nearly stalled in the final three months of last
year, leaving the economy on the brink of a recession before a
Feb. 22 earthquake killed more than 160 people.  Gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent in the three months
through December from the prior quarter, according to the median
of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey before a government
report tomorrow at 10:45 a.m. in Wellington. The economy shrank
0.2 percent in the third quarter, in part because of a Sept. 4
quake in the nation’s second-biggest city, Christchurch.  Two New Zealand temblors in six months and an earthquake-
triggered tsunami this month in  Japan  dealt blows to an Asia-
Pacific region that’s leading a global recovery. The latest
quake in Christchurch came just as the economy was struggling
with higher unemployment and weaker  consumer confidence ,
prompting the central bank to cut interest rates March 10 and
signal no changes until rebuilding gets under way.  “The economy has been very disappointing and it’s
surprised the  Reserve Bank ,” said  Philip Borkin , an economist
at Goldman Sachs & Partners New Zealand Ltd. in Auckland. Borkin
predicts 0.3 percent growth in the fourth quarter and “not a
lot of growth really” in the first half of this year.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard cut the
official cash rate a half a percentage point to 2.5 percent to
shore up confidence after the February earthquake. Ten of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News after that decision expect
rates are on hold until the first quarter next year.  Quake Payments  A government report today showed New Zealand’s current-
account deficit as a share of the economy was near the smallest
in a decade as local companies received reinsurance payments
from overseas. The shortfall was 2.3 percent of GDP in the year
ended Dec. 31, after a revised 2.2 percent the prior quarter
that was the least since 2001.  The local currency initially fell after today’s data before
rebounding to 74.03 U.S. cents at 11:49 a.m. in Wellington from
74.01 cents yesterday. New Zealand’s dollar has dropped 5.1
percent this year, the worst performing G-10 currency, on the
outlook for low  interest rates  and weak growth.  Eight economists in the Bloomberg survey forecast growth in
the fourth quarter, three expect no change and two a
contraction, which would put New Zealand back into a second
recession in less than two years. The economy suffered five
straight quarterly contractions from January 2008 to March 2009
as the global credit crisis contributed to its worst recession
in three decades.  Waning Confidence  Consumer confidence fell to a two-year low this quarter,
Westpac Banking Corp. and McDermott Miller Ltd. said in a report
on March 17. The jobless rate rose to 6.8 percent in the fourth
quarter, according to government figures on Feb. 3.  Last month’s temblor followed a magnitude 7 earthquake that
hit Christchurch and surrounding districts in early September,
damaging property and infrastructure yet claiming no lives.
Finance Minister Bill English last week said the cost of the two
quakes is about NZ$15 billion ($11 billion).  The most recent disaster, a magnitude 6.3, disrupted data
gathering at  Statistics New Zealand ’s Christchurch office,
delaying reports on fourth-quarter manufacturing and wholesale
trade that usually precede the GDP report.  That leaves economists “taking a rough stab at what
amounts to 20 percent of GDP,” said  Nick Tuffley , chief
economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. He forecast a 0.1
percent fourth-quarter contraction and predicts “another small
decline in the first quarter.”  Deficit Outlook  The quakes and the accompanying economic slowdown also have
forced Prime Minister John Key’s government, facing an election
in November, to say the nation’s budget deficit won’t return to
surplus until 2016, a year later than predicted before the
February quake.  Economic growth was accelerating in late 2009 and early
2010, buoyed by a housing recovery and demand for the nation’s
commodity exports from China and  Asia . The pace of expansion
then slowed as consumers and companies preferred to reduce debt
rather than spend or invest, magnified by the September quake.  Bollard on March 10 said activity in the fourth quarter was
“steady” as spending, investment and hiring remained subdued
while a drought in the final months of 2010 curbed farm
production. He didn’t make a detailed GDP forecast.  Slower 2011 Growth  Annual average growth was probably 1.4 percent in 2010, the
central bank said. It slashed its 2011 outlook to 1.3 percent
from 2.7 percent and raised its 2012 forecast to 5.4 percent
when Christchurch reconstruction will get under way.  Retail sales fell 0.4 percent in the three months ended
Dec. 31, matching the decline in the third quarter, according to
a government report on Feb. 14.  Weak spending curbed revenue at  Warehouse Group Ltd. (WHS) , the
nation’s biggest discount retailer, it said on March 11. Sales
and profit fell in the six months ended Jan. 30, the Auckland-
based company said in a statement sent to the stock exchange.  “The overall retail sector is currently experiencing an
extended cyclical downturn as a result of continued uncertainty
in the economy,” Chairman Keith Smith said. “The difficult
trading environment has added to the challenge of implementing
initiatives to offset the impact of price deflation and ongoing
decline in some key categories.”  Still, exports increased in the quarter led by milk powder,
butter, meat and lumber, according to a report on Feb. 28.  Exports, which make up 30 percent of the economy, have been
supported by rising prices amid demand from  China  and other
Asian nations. An index of commodities exported by New Zealand
climbed for a sixth straight month to a record in February,
according to ANZ National Bank Ltd.  China’s milk imports from New Zealand surged more than
five-fold in 2010 from 2008, according to government data
supplied by Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
world’s largest dairy exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Petrie in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  