-- 
Natural Gas Rises to Six-Week High in N.Y. on Below-Normal Temperatures

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-03-22T19:11:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/natural-gas-rises-to-six-week-high-in-n-y-on-below-normal-temperatures.html
Natural gas futures rose to a six-
week high in  New York  as forecasts showed colder-than-normal
weather in the U.S., raising demand for the heating fuel.  Gas rose for the third day in four as forecasters including
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland , said 11- to
15-day forecasts showed normal to below-normal temperatures in
the Midwest and near-normal temperatures in the Northeast. The
1- to 5-day forecasts showed colder-than-normal weather “across
much of the northern tier,” according to MDA Federal Inc.’s
EarthSat Energy Weather in Rockville, Maryland.  “The colder weather is giving a little bit of a boost to
gas prices,” said  Cameron Horwitz , an analyst in Houston at
Canaccord Genuity. “You are entering the shoulder season and
the demand picture is rather flattish, so gas may retreat back
towards $4.”  Natural gas for April delivery rose 9.3 cents, or 2.2
percent, to $4.254 per million British thermal units on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement price since
Feb. 4. The futures have risen 4.3 percent from a year ago.  Prices have broken the resistance level of $4.20, a
“supportive sign that gas may continue to rise,” said Carl Neill, an energy consultant at Risk Management Inc. in Atlanta.  The combination of significant cold air dropping southward
from  Canada  and an aggressive series of storm systems over the
next two weeks means that many areas of the Midwest and East
could see late-season winter weather,  Matt Rogers , a forecaster
with Commodity Weather Group, said in a note today.  New York Weather  The low temperature in New York on March 25 will be 26
degrees Fahrenheit (minus 3 Celsius), 12 degrees below normal,
according to AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .
Chicago will have a low of 28 degrees.  “Unseasonable cold” will spread across the upper Midwest
starting tomorrow and into the Northeast in the latter part of
the period, according to EarthSat Energy. Accumulating snow will
be possible in much of the Midwest, Northeast, and parts of the
Mid-Atlantic.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  “One last shot of cold air moving into the Northeast at
the end of this week is giving support to the market,” James R. Crandell, an analyst with  Barclays Capital  in New York, said in
a note to clients today. “Regardless, the cold will be ‘too
little, too late’ to significantly alter end-of-season
inventories.”  LNG Cargoes  Gas has been on the rise since March 11, when  Japan ’s worst
earthquake on record spurred speculation that the country will
boost its demand for liquefied natural gas, diverting cargoes
from the U.S.  “We think prices should revert once the market assesses
that near-term U.S. balances should be little altered and
production trends suggest a loose fundamental picture for
inventories,” Crandell said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc has diverted six cargoes of LNG from
Brunei, two cargoes from Sakhalin in  Russia  and one from
 Nigeria , to help replace damaged nuclear capacity in Japan. More
LNG cargoes will be diverted to Japan in coming weeks, according
to De La Rey Venter, Shell’s global head of LNG.  LNG imports to the U.S. this year will be the equivalent of
1.15 billion cubic feet a day of natural gas, about 1.7 percent
of total gas demand, according Energy Department estimates made
before the earthquake.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
230,538 as of 2:46 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 301,000. Volume was 301,678 yesterday. Open interest was
900,384 contracts. The three-month average open interest is
875,000.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 