-- 
Netanyahu, Abbas May Cross Paths in Moscow as Russia Seeks Mediator Role

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-03-22T21:25:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/netanyahu-abbas-may-cross-paths-in-moscow-as-russia-seeks-mediator-role.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu heads to Moscow today, where he will cross paths with
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  as they consult
separately with a Russian leadership looking to insert itself
into Middle East peacemaking.  Violence has been escalating between Israel and the Hamas-
controlled  Gaza Strip . Israeli soldiers yesterday fired mortar
shells into Gaza killing four teenagers playing soccer, and an
air strike left three other people dead in a separate incident,
a Gaza health official said.  Israeli-Palestinian peace talks stalled in September after
Netanyahu refused to extend a 10-month partial construction
freeze in West Bank settlements. Abbas has said he won’t
negotiate with Israel while the building continues.  There is “nothing planned in terms of a meeting between
Abbas and Netanyahu in Moscow,” Palestinian Liberation
Organization executive committee member Hanan Ashrawi said in a
phone interview, adding that the timing of the visits likely
wasn’t coincidental.  “The Russians have always expressed the desire to convene
an international conference on the Israel-Palestinian front, and
I wouldn’t be surprised if this is what they are pushing now,”
Ashrawi said.  ‘Act with Determination’  Netanyahu said he regrets that innocent civilians were
killed in the violence yesterday and pinned blame on Hamas,
which he said launched rockets at  Israel  while using civilians
as a human shield.  “Israel has no intention of bringing about a deterioration
in the situation,” Netanyahu said in an e-mailed statement.
“At the same time, the Israeli military will act with
determination to protect Israel’s civilians.”  The Israeli army said in a statement that both of the
strikes in Gaza were aimed at Palestinians firing mortar shells
and rockets at southern Israel.  A group of masked militants fired mortar shells at Israel
from near a playground where teenagers were playing soccer, said
28-year-old Mohammed, an eyewitness who asked that his full name
be withheld for fear of reprisal. He said minutes after the
mortars were fired the Israelis shot back.  Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007, ending a partnership
government with Abbas’s Fatah after winning parliamentary
elections the previous year. Hamas is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel, the European Union and the U.S.  At least 19 Gazans have been injured in the current round
of violence, according to Adham Abu Selmeya, chief of  emergency
services  in Gaza, who confirmed yesterday’s deaths. He said an
eighth man was clinically dead from Israeli shelling.  Drive to Mediate  Abbas met yesterday with Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ,
who told reporters afterwards he was concerned about peace
efforts in the wake of continuing turmoil in the region,
according to the Kremlin. Medvedev, on a visit to Jericho in
January, renewed a call Russia first made last year for a Middle
East peace conference to be held in Russia.  “Moscow has long considered itself one of the countries in
the front line to mediate the Palestinian-Israeli conflict,”
said Dmitri Trenin, director of the Carnegie Moscow Center.
“The fact that Moscow is inviting both sides no doubt
demonstrates its drive to be a mediator.”  Netanyahu is scheduled to meet Medvedev, Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov tomorrow to
discuss the  peace process ,  Iran , changes going on in the region,
bi-lateral relations and economic cooperation, an Israeli
official said, speaking anonymously because he wasn’t authorized
to speak on the record.  Cruise Missiles  Israel’s relations with Russia have been strained by
Moscow’s arm sales to its enemies, including  Syria  and Iran.
Israel protested Russia’s announced sale last September of anti-
ship Yakhont cruise missiles worth more than $300 million sales
to Syria. Russia last year scrapped an $800 million delivery of
S-300 air defense systems to Iran in compliance with U.N.-
imposed international sanctions.  Israel “has not much leverage” to influence Russian arms
sales, said Amnon Sella, a Russian-studies expert at Israel’s
Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya, near  Tel Aviv . “With the
Middle East in upheaval, it is very important for  Russia  to
maintain its position in the region, and one of the ways it does
so is through the sale of weapons systems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  