-- 
New York May Get Inch of Snow Tomorrow as Storm Goes East, Forecasters Say

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-03-22T13:15:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/new-york-area-may-get-an-inch-or-more-of-snow-tomorrow-as-storm-moves-east.html
New York  and the U.S. Northeast may
receive an inch of snow tomorrow from a wintery storm that
stretches from Idaho to  Michigan , according to the National
Weather Service.  As much as 8 inches (20 centimeters) may fall from Corning,
New York, to Scranton and Allentown in Pennsylvania and as far
east as Morristown, New Jersey, the  weather service  said in a
winter storm watch.  The storm may start as wet snow early tomorrow in New York
City before changing to rain during the day, said Rob Carolan, a
meteorologist with Hometown Forecast Services in Nashua, New
Hampshire. It will probably turn back to snow late in the day,
he said.  “In the city, we’ll maybe get an inch, especially on the
grass; I don’t think it’s going to accumulate much on the
pavement,” Carolan said. “It’s just a sign that the pattern is
turning colder.”  The storm may also leave as much as 3 inches of snow in
parts of eastern and southern  Massachusetts , Carolan said.  The system has prompted winter storm warnings and weather
advisories across the north-central U.S. and isolated blizzard
warnings in parts of Montana, Minnesota and Wisconsin, according
to the  weather service . The system may also trigger severe
thunderstorms in Iowa, Missouri and  Illinois , the agency said.  Flood warnings have been posted along the Mississippi River
from Cairo, Illinois, to Baton Rouge,  Louisiana , and along the
Ohio River as far east as Kentucky and Indiana, according to the
weather service.  After the snowstorm moves out of the East, the sun will
return. However, high temperatures may be in the 40s, or about 5
degrees to 8 degrees below normal, Carolan said.  Carolan said forecasters are watching another storm that
may bring snow to an area from  New Jersey  into New England next
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  