-- 
New Jersey’s Poorest Students Hurt by Christie's Funding Cuts, Judge Says

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-03-22T21:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/new-jersey-s-poorest-students-hurt-most-by-christie-cuts-judge-says.html
New Jersey’s poorest students have
been hurt the most by Governor  Chris Christie  and the
Legislature underfunding schools by $1.6 billion, a state-court
judge said in a report filed in a lawsuit over budget cuts.  Judge Peter Doyne is helping the state Supreme Court weigh
the impact of school budget reductions that Christie, a
Republican, and the Democratic-controlled Legislature made last
year to balance New Jersey’s budget. The inadequate funding, in
violation of a formula set up by the School Funding Reform Act
of 2008, was hardest on districts “least able to withstand the
reductions,” the judge said.  “Despite the state’s best efforts, the reductions fell
more heavily upon our high-risk districts and the children
educated within those districts,” Doyne wrote in the 96-page
report made public today. “The greatest impact of the
reductions fell upon our at-risk students.”  Doyne said his job as a special master was to determine
whether current spending levels permit school districts to meet
their requirement of providing a “thorough and efficient system
of free public schools.”  “The answer to this limited inquiry can only be ‘no,’”
Doyne wrote. “The more daunting questions have been reserved by
and for our  Supreme Court .”  Poorest Districts  The school-funding law gave extra money to the poorest
districts, following cases known as Abbott v. Burke that spanned
three decades. In 2009, the Supreme Court said that law was
constitutional and fairly replaced the previous system. The
 Education Law Center , a Newark-based nonprofit that advocates
for the districts, said in a lawsuit that Christie’s cutbacks
for the 2010-11 school year violated the court’s ruling on the
funding formula.  Doyne held a series of hearings this year and reviewed
thousands of pages of exhibits before reaching his conclusions.
He said his task was to analyze whether the 19 percent spending
reduction for the 2011 fiscal year allows the state to provide
the education level required by the state Constitution.  While Christie’s budget sought “not to disadvantage
districts most reliant upon state aid,” the cutbacks fell “on
those districts least able to withstand the reductions,” the
judge ruled.  He said that while the state has made progress in providing
fair and equitable education funding, “how to maintain that
progress in light of daunting fiscal realities” is a conundrum
for the Supreme Court. “How money is spent is much more
important than how much money is spent,” Doyne said.  ‘Failed Assumption’  Michael Drewniak , a Christie spokesman, said today in a
statement that the Supreme Court “should at last abandon the
failed assumption of the last three decades that more money
equals better education, and stop treating our state’s fiscal
condition as in inconvenient afterthought.”  “The court’s legal mandates on the legislative and
executive branches of government have incontrovertibly
contributed to our current fiscal crisis without uniformly
improving education, particularly for the at-risk students the
court claims to be helping with its rulings,” he said.  The state spends more than $17,600 per pupil and still has
more than 100,000 students trapped in 200 failing schools,
Christie said in his Feb. 22 budget address.  An attorney who has argued the case for the Education Law
Center, David Sciarra, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  The case now moves back to the Supreme Court.  ‘Endangered Education’  “The state Supreme Court will of course have final say and
we await its decision, but the special master’s findings re-
emphasize how the governor’s budget both overburdened property
taxpayers and endangered education for our children,” state
Assemblyman Lou Greenwald, a Cherry Hill Democrat who is
chairman of the budget committee, said in a statement.  Senate Minority Leader Tom Kean, a Republican from
Westfield, said that Doyne’s report “proves that money is not
the problem for chronically failing school districts.”  “What state government and the education establishment
have been doing in  New Jersey  isn’t working for students in
failing districts,” Kean said. “To respond by throwing more
taxpayer dollars at the problem would be the definition of
insanity and is unlikely to improve the education of a single
student.”  Retired Supreme Court Justice Peter Verniero said in a
statement that Doyne’s leeway was limited.  “The Supreme Court, however, has discretion to consider
the state’s fiscal situation in deciding the questions before
it,” said Verniero, now an attorney at Sills Cummis & Gross PC
in  Newark , New Jersey. “Whether or how it will do so is a key
question.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 