-- 
NFL Owners Vote to Move Kickoff to 35-Yard Line in Effort to Stop Injuries

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-03-22T22:40:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/nfl-moves-kickoff-to-35-yard-line-allows-review-of-all-scoring.html
National Football League  owners
voted to move kickoffs up 5 yards to the 35-yard line in an
effort to reduce injuries.  Other rules changes that were adopted today at the owners
meeting in  New Orleans  include allowing referees to review all
scoring plays, rather than just during the final two minutes of
each half and overtime.  The annual spring meeting is being held a little more than
a week after owners shut down the league when negotiations with
players failed to yield a new labor agreement. The meeting was
shortened, activities were cut back, even a wives luncheon to be
held at New Orleans Saints owner Tom Benson’s home was canceled.  In addition to moving kickoffs up 5 yards, no member of the
kicking team other than the kicker would be allowed to line up
more than 5 yards behind the ball so they would get less of a
running start.  “There certainly appears to be a lot of injuries related
to kickoffs,” said Margot Putukian, director of athletic
medicine at  Princeton University . “We’re not sure whether it’s
the speed or distance they’re covering at a high speed. We want
to make the game safe.”  Putukian is on an NFL committee studying how to make sure
it is safe for injured players to return to games and was at the
meeting. She said teams will check players for spine and brain
injuries on the sidelines this season.  Returns Percentage  The league moved kickoffs to the 30-yard line in 1994 to
increase offensive production.  Rich McKay, the Atlanta Falcons president and chairman of
the league’s competition committee, said 80 percent of kickoffs
resulted in returns last season.  “It could go down to a 70 percent return,” he said at a
news conference. “We’ll have to wait and see.”  Owners rejected a proposal to put touchbacks on the 25-yard
line because of concern teams would try to kick pop-ups that
would land inside the 25 and give the coverage a chance to get
there as the ball lands.  “People are probably a little more risk adverse trying to
trap you inside the 20,” McKay said.  While the league is preparing as if there will be a 2011
season, the union and owners are arguing over the lockout in
court.  Federal Action  A challenge by  Tom Brady ,  Drew Brees ,  Peyton Manning  and
seven other players to the NFL’s lockout is set to go before a
Minnesota federal court next month.  U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul  will
hear arguments April 6 from attorneys for the players, who asked
the court to block the lockout in an antitrust lawsuit. NFL
owners are arguing that federal court doesn’t have jurisdiction
in the matter.  NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, who said he hasn’t spoken
to Executive Director  DeMaurice Smith  since the union disbanded,
said the league hasn’t discussed using replacement players in
the absence of a new labor accord.  “It hasn’t been considered,” Goodell said at a news
conference. “It’s not in our plans.”  Goodell also said the  Miami Dolphins  and four other teams
were fined for illegal contact with players following the end of
the 2010 season. He didn’t identify the other teams or the
amount of the fines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in New Orleans at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  