-- 
Nigeria's Government Can’t Sustain Revised Budget Deficit, Aganga Say

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-03-22T15:06:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/nigeria-can-t-sustain-revised-budget-deficit-aganga-says-1-.html
Nigeria’s budget deficit, raised by
parliament last week to 1.3 trillion naira ($8.3 billion) for
2011, is unsustainable, Finance Minister Olusegun Aganga said in
an interview in  London  today.  The Senate of  Africa ’s most populous nation increased the
deficit from 857 billion naira when it passed a 4.97 trillion-
naira budget, 17 percent more than President Goodluck Jonathan
had proposed for spending in December.  Africa’s top oil producer is basing its new spending plans
on crude output of 2.3 million barrels a day, an oil price of
$75 a barrel, $10 more than in Jonathan’s budget, and an
exchange rate of 150 naira to a dollar. Jonathan must sign the
plan before it becomes law.  “We hope to talk” to the national assembly about the
budget, Aganga said. The oil price increase proposed by
parliament is “quite high,” he said.  The government is aiming to reduce the inflation rate to
below 10 percent after state, parliamentary and presidential
elections next month, said Aganga, adding that it was
“difficult to say” exactly when that would happen.  Nigeria ’s central bank raised its benchmark interest rate
today for the second time this year as it tries to stabilize the
naira and slow inflation.  Interest Rate Rise  The monetary policy rate was lifted to 7.5 percent, from
6.5 percent, Bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said today in Abuja,
the capital. Four economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast
an increase of between 25 and 50 basis points.  Nigeria’s inflation rate was 11.1 percent in February,
above the central bank’s target rate, and is being fueled by
government spending ahead of the elections and food costs,
Aganga said.  “The fiscal stance is unduly expansionary,” Sanusi said.
There is “serious concern of the heightened inflation risk”
related to rising government spending.”  Nigeria’s economy is forecast to expand 7.43 percent in the
first quarter and the outlook for growth in 2011 is “generally
good,” said Sanusi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 