-- 
Nigeria Raises Key Interest Rate to 7.5 Percent to Ease Inflation Pressure

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-03-22T16:11:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/nigeria-raises-key-interest-rate-to-7-5-percent-to-ease-inflation-pressure.html
Nigeria ’s central bank raised its
benchmark interest rate by one percentage point, the second
increase this year, as it tries to stabilize the naira and slow
inflation.  The monetary policy rate was lifted to 7.5 percent, Lamido
Sanusi, governor of the  Central Bank of Nigeria , said today in
Abuja, the capital. The borrowing and lending rates were raised
by the same margin to 5.5 percent and 9.5 percent respectively
while the reserve requirement was left unchanged at 2 percent.  “The magnitude of the latest round of monetary tightening
is well above expectations and appears to reflect the central
bank’s concerns over the country’s fiscal path as well as the
need to sustain exchange rate stability going forward,”  Samir Gadio , emerging-markets strategist at London-based Standard Bank
Plc, said in an e-mailed note.  The government of Nigeria,  Africa ’s biggest oil producer,
has boosted spending ahead of next month’s election, adding to
pressure on inflation. The parliament approved a 4.97 trillion-
naira ($31.8 billion) expenditure plan for the 2011 fiscal year,
17 percent more than President Goodluck Jonathan proposed in
December.  “The fiscal stance is unduly expansionary,” Sanusi said
in a televised press conference today. There is “serious
concern of the heightened inflation risk” related to rising
government spending.  Currency Weakens  The Nigerian currency has weakened as much as 3.1 percent
against the dollar this year on fears of violence in the run-up
to elections starting on April 2, even as the central bank
increases the supply of foreign currency. It will continue to
meet demand for dollars as long as foreign currency reserves
allow the bank to do so, Sanusi said today. Reserves reached
$35.2 billion as of March 16, he said.  “A weaker naira translates into higher inflation” and
maintaining exchange rate stability is a “tool” to control
price pressures, Sanusi said.  The central bank is aiming to bring inflation, which slowed
to 11.1 percent in February from 12.1 percent the month before,
below 10 percent.  “There’s excess liquidity, the naira is under pressure and
the budget is very expansionary so there’s a need to mop up some
liquidity,”  Bismarck Rewane , chief executive officer of Lagos-
based  fund manager , Financial Derivatives Co. Ltd., said before
the announcement.  The monetary policy rate was previously raised by a quarter
of a percentage point on Jan. 25.  Nigeria’s economy, the third-largest on the continent after
 South Africa  and  Egypt , is projected to grow 7.98 percent this
year, compared with 7.8 percent in 2010, according to the
National Bureau of Statistics.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 