-- 
Nigeria's Central Bank May Raise Key Rate on Mounting Inflation Pressure

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-03-22T08:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/nigeria-s-central-bank-may-raise-key-rate-on-mounting-inflation-pressure.html
Nigeria ’s central bank may raise
its benchmark interest rate today for the second time this year
as it tries to stabilize the naira exchange rate and slow
inflation.  Bank Governor Lamido Sanusi will raise the rate by 25 to 50
basis points from the current 6.5 percent, according to all four
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The announcement will be made
this afternoon. Sanusi may also increase the reserve requirement
on banks from 2 percent, said  Samir Gadio , emerging-markets
strategist at London-based Standard Bank Plc.  “A tightening in monetary policy would help curtail
liquidity and speculative demand for dollars as well as increase
the incentive to hold a naira position,” Gadio said in an e-
mailed note.  The Nigerian currency has weakened as much as 3.1 percent
against the dollar this year on fears of violence in the run-up
to elections starting on April 2, even as the central bank
increases the supply of foreign currency. The bank will continue
to meet demand for dollars, Governor Lamido Sanusi said in an
interview on March 15.  A weaker naira would push up inflation, which slowed to
11.1 percent in February from 12.1 percent the month before.
Price-growth remains above the central bank’s 10 percent target.  The monetary policy rate was raised by a quarter of a
percentage point to 6.5 percent and the reserve requirement
raised to 2 percent from 1 percent on Jan. 25 in an attempt to
head off faster inflation as  government spending  increased ahead
of elections. The borrowing and lending rates are currently set
at 4.5 percent and 8.5 percent respectively.  The  central bank  has been defending the naira, keeping it
within a range of between 3 percent above or below 150 per
dollar, in a bid to curb inflation in  Africa ’s biggest oil
producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 