-- 
No One's Making Money on Exchange Takeovers an Arbitrage Too Far: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-23T21:07:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/no-one-s-making-money-on-exchange-takeovers-an-arbitrage-too-far-real-m-a.html
Since  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  said
it will pay $8.3 billion for  ASX Ltd. (ASX) ,  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc (LSE)  agreed to acquire  TMX Group Inc. (X)  for $3.1 billion, and
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  struck a $9.5 billion deal for NYSE Euronext,
no one has been reaching for the checkbook on the assumption the
deals will get done anytime soon.  ASX, operator of Australia’s national bourse, fell 21
percent below Singapore Exchange’s offer, the biggest gap this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The difference
between Toronto-based TMX’s price and LSE’s bid approached a
record this week, while shares of NYSE Euronext have dropped
more relative to Deutsche Boerse’s offer than ever before.  More than $20 billion of exchange acquisitions have been
announced in the past five months as venues in  North America ,
Europe and Asia try to cut costs and offset declining profits
from equity trading with options, futures and derivatives. Now,
with Singapore Exchange and LSE facing scrutiny from Australian
and Canadian regulators and speculation of a competing bid for
 NYSE Euronext (NYX)  diminishing, arbitragers have less incentive to
maintain bullish bets, according to WallachBeth Capital LLC.  “Reality is beginning to set in,” said Yemi Oshodi,
managing director of M&A and special situations trading at New
York-based WallachBeth Capital. “None of these are going to get
done quickly. Nobody wants to be trapped. Nobody wants a quick
trade to become a long-term investment.”  Takeover Spree  Exchange operators are turning to acquisitions to expand
globally as regulators open home markets to more competition and
investors demand lower trading costs.  Singapore Exchange’s bid for Sydney-based ASX on Oct. 25
set off a spree of offers. LSE agreed to buy TMX for about $3.1
billion on Feb. 9, and Deutsche Boerse followed less than a week
later with its takeover of NYSE Euronext. In the same month,
Bats Global Markets agreed to buy Chi-X Europe Ltd., Europe’s
largest alternative trading system.  While the deals led to immediate gains in ASX, TMX and New
York-based NYSE Euronext, their shares have since given up most
of those advances. ASX closed yesterday at A$34.36 ($34.74),
A$9.06 below the current value of the  Singapore  bourse’s bid.
That’s the widest gap since November, Bloomberg data show.  Singapore Exchange has agreed to pay 3.473 shares of its
own stock and A$22 for each ASX share, initially valuing the
offer at A$48 each. Since jumping 19 percent on the day the deal
was announced, ASX lost 18 percent through yesterday on concern
regulators and politicians will block the takeover.  ASX advanced 0.5 percent to A$34.53 in Sydney today.
Singapore Exchange slipped 1 percent to S$7.80 in Singapore.  ‘Pretty High Probability’  The current premium of 25 percent is the biggest for any
global deal worth more than $1 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “It’s telling you that the market is starting to price in
a pretty high probability that the deal doesn’t get done,” John Maysles, an event-driven analyst at broker-dealer Elevation LLC,
said in a telephone interview from  Los Angeles .  The bid still requires the support of Australian Treasurer
Wayne Swan, the Reserve Bank of Australia, the country’s Foreign
Investment Review Board, the  Australian Securities & Investments
Commission  and parliamentarians, several of whom have opposed
the sale. The Australian Greens party, “will not be
facilitating or supporting this takeover,” leader Bob Brown
said Oct. 26. Lawmaker  Bob Katter  called the bid “lunacy.”  To overcome opposition from lawmakers who raised concerns
on national interest grounds,  Singapore Exchange  on Feb. 15
offered to give more board seats to Australians.  Labor Government  Laws amending the Corporations Act to raise ASX’s foreign
ownership cap also need to be passed in both houses of
Australia’s parliament. The minority Labor government led by
Prime Minister Julia Gillard needs the support of four
independent or Greens lawmakers to pass a bill.  Matthew Gibbs, a spokesman for ASX, said the exchange
doesn’t comment on market movements and valuations. Magdalyn Liew, a spokeswoman for Singapore Exchange, didn’t return phone
and e-mail messages outside normal business hours.  TMX has fallen 10 percent since jumping 6.4 percent on the
day LSE announced its takeover. The offer came three months
after Canadian regulators rejected Melbourne-based BHP Billiton
Ltd.’s hostile bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  The gap between the offer and TMX’s shares widened to 183
pence ($2.98) this week, the most since Feb. 18, even after the
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan,  Canada ’s third-biggest
retirement fund manager, said last week it supports the deal.  ‘Political Objection’  Trading in TMX is “reflecting potential concern over
political objection and timing,” said Peter Lobravico, vice
president of merger arbitrage trading and sales at Wall Street
Access in  New York .  The Canadian government hasn’t started its review of the
acquisition because the exchanges have yet to apply, Industry
Minister Tony Clement said March 15. Once that happens, the
government will have 45 days to evaluate whether the deal would
benefit the country, a timeframe that can be extended.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
in Toronto, and Montreal-based  National Bank of Canada (NA)  said
March 9 they opposed the transaction.  “It is appropriate and responsible of our governments and
regulators to carefully examine our proposed merger,” Carolyn Quick, TMX’s spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “We have developed
a compelling agreement and we will work closely with them to
ensure they too recognize its important benefits to Canada. We
expect the deal to close in the second half of 2011.”  ‘Tough Ride’  Victoria Brough, a spokeswoman at LSE, declined to comment.
LSE’s shares rose 0.5 percent to 836 pence in  London  today,
while TMX lost 0.4 percent in Toronto.  NYSE Euronext’s shares, which closed $3.18 above Frankfurt-
based Deutsche Boerse’s offer price on March 16, ended $1.29
below the bid three trading days later, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The stock closed yesterday at $34.88, 50 cents
below the offer, and declined 0.8 percent to $34.59 today.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  of New York was in talks with lenders
to fund a possible counter offer for NYSE, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last week. A bid has yet to
materialize. Atlanta-based  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  was
working with Nasdaq on an offer, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private.  NYSE Euronext “has a lot of people rumored to be
circling,” said Nancy Havens-Hasty, president of Havens
Advisors LLC, a New York-based merger arbitrage fund manager.
“It’s going to be a tough, tough ride for any of them to get
their act together.”  ‘Get Burned’  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext also face an in-depth
European Union review of their merger, the region’s antitrust
commissioner said yesterday. The European Commission, the 27-
nation EU’s executive arm, must rule on the takeover, which
would combine NYSE Euronext’s Liffe and Eurex, jointly owned by
Deutsche Boerse and the Swiss stock exchange.  Ray Pellecchia , a spokesman at NYSE Euronext, declined to
comment, as did Deutsche Boerse’s Naomi Kim. Deutsche Boerse’s
shares slipped 0.6 percent to 52.72 euros today.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty out there about exactly
what’s going to happen,” said  Timothy Ghriskey , chief
investment officer at the Solaris Group LLC in Bedford Hills,
New York, which manages $2 billion. “It can provide
opportunities, but it’s an easy way to get burned.”  Overall, there have been 5,172 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $536.4 billion, a 22 percent increase from
the $440.1 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Nagi at   chrisnagi@bloomberg.net . 