-- 
Reactor Core May Be Breached at Damaged Fukushima Plant

-- B y   G o   O n o m i t s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-03-25T11:48:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/nuclear-plant-s-fuel-rods-damaged-leaking-into-sea-tokyo-electric-says.html
Japan ’s nuclear regulator said one
reactor core at the quake-damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant
may be cracked and leaking radiation.  “It’s very possible that there has been some kind of leak
at the No. 3 reactor,” Hidehiko Nishiyama, a spokesman at the
Japan Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, said in Tokyo today.
While radioactive water at the unit most likely escaped from the
reactor core, it also could have originated from spent fuel
pools stored atop the reactor, he said.  Repair work at the site of the worst nuclear disaster since
Chernobyl has been plagued by explosions, fires and leaks of
toxic material. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  told a press conference
that efforts to bring the reactor under control haven’t yet
reached a stage where the government can let down its guard.  “Even if there has been encouraging news such as getting
some power back to the site, the installation remains in an
extremely precarious and very serious situation that has not yet
been stabilized,” Thomas Houdre, head of reactors at  France ’s
nuclear safety agency, told reporters in Paris.  Workers using fire engines have streamed 4,000 tons of
water on the No. 3 reactor, five times more than any of the
other five units,  according to the government .  Radiation Burns  Two plant workers were hospitalized yesterday with
radiation burns after stepping in the water, which was found to
have radiation levels 10,000 times higher than water used in
reactor cooling, Nishiyama said earlier today.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the plant operator, said it found
eight different radioactive materials in the water of the
turbine building basement, where the men were attempting to
connect a power cable. The materials are made through a process
of fission, and include cobalt and molybdenum-99, a spokesman
for the power utility said.  Tokyo  Electric plans to drain radioactive water from the
turbine building of the No. 3 unit where the accident occurred,
spokesman Osamu Yokokura said. It has yet to determine how and
when to do this, he said.  “The water that is coming out of that area is much higher
in terms of radiation and this is obviously complicating the
clean up,” said Tony Roulstone, an atomic engineer who directs
the University of Cambridge’s master’s program in nuclear
energy. “If it’s leaking out then they have to figure out some
way to contain this water.”  The March 11 quake, Japan’s biggest ever, left the plant
without power needed to cool nuclear fuel rods. Japan today
advised more people living close to the nuclear plant to
evacuate because basic goods are in short supply, while assuring
them that radiation levels haven’t risen.  Evacuation Zone  The recommendation applies to residents living between 20
kilometers (12 miles) and 30 kilometers from the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi facility, which was damaged by the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami. The government previously evacuated everyone living
closer to the plant.  “It’s becoming difficult for people to live a normal life
and we can’t rule out the possibility of broadening the
mandatory evacuation if radiation levels rise,” Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters in Tokyo today. “We will
make maximum efforts to ensure a smooth, voluntary withdrawal by
providing transportation and shelter.”  The death toll from the quake and tsunami climbed to 10,066
as of 3 p.m. with 17,443 people missing, according to the
 National Police Agency  in Tokyo.  The spread of radiation to food and water supplies prompted
bulk-buying of bottled drinks even as the government said the
health threat remained minimal.  Exceed Limits  Radioactive cesium above the government limit was found on
komatsuna, a leafy vegetable known as Japanese mustard spinach,
harvested in Tokyo’s Edogawa ward, authorities said yesterday.
That indicates radioactive elements have spread 220 kilometers
(135 miles) south of the Fukushima plant.  A sample collected on March 20 from an open field contained
890 becquerels per kilogram of radioactive cesium, Japan’s
Health Ministry said on its web site. The safety limit is 500
becquerels. Consuming 1 kilogram of komatsuna would yield a
radiation exposure of 0.01 millisieverts, or a third of exposure
to cosmic rays on a flight from  New York  to  Los Angeles .  Cancer Risk  Exposure to radiation  from cesium-137 increases the risk of
cancer, and high doses can cause serious burns and death,
according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  Tokyo authorities  already were handing out bottled water
after determining that tap water may be unsafe for babies.
Radioactive iodine in tap water was above the government limit
for infants today in Utsunomiya, a city about 80 miles southwest
of the plant,  Kyodo News  reported.  Changing weather systems will drive radiation from the
Fukushima plant over the Pacific Ocean today, Austria’s
Meteorological and Geophysics Center reported, citing data from
the United Nations nuclear-test ban treaty organization  Wind will carry the radionuclides for a “short while”
inland, the center said on its website. Reactors at Fukushima
may have released as much as 20 percent of the radioactive
iodine and up to 60 percent of the radioactive cesium that
resulted from the Chernobyl meltdown in 1986, according to the
report yesterday.  The maximum radiation reading reported so far at the
nuclear plant is 500 millisieverts per hour, meaning a worker in
the vicinity would receive the maximum-allowed dose in 30
minutes.  Tokyo Electric  said 17 workers had received more than
100 millisieverts of radiation since the crisis started.  U.S. Navy ships carrying out Japan relief efforts have been
ordered to stay outside a 100-nautical-mile radius of the
Fukushima plant. Tokyo is 135 miles south of Dai-Ichi. The
nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS George Washington this week
left port at Yokosuka, 175 miles south from the plant, to avoid
getting residual traces of radiation on the vessel, which could
trigger alarms and require extensive cleanup.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Go Onomitsu in Tokyo at 
 gonomitsu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Coulter at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net  