-- 
Obama Challengers Would Need $590,000 a Day to Match His 2008 Fundraising

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-03-22T15:22:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/obama-challengers-would-need-590-000-a-day-to-match-his-2008-fundraising.html
Barack Obama  raised $59 million for
his presidential campaign during the first half of 2007. To
match that, prospective Republican challengers to his re-
election would need to take in roughly $590,000 a day until June
30 if they entered the race today.  The Republican field began to emerge yesterday when former
Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  said he was setting up an
exploratory committee to raise money for a possible candidacy.
With some experts predicting that Obama could become the first
billion-dollar candidate, every day that other potential
contenders wait to follow suit will make it that much harder to
match the president’s coffers.  “It would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, for
the Republicans to raise as much money as Obama,” said former
Republican National Committee finance chairman Al Hoffman Jr., a
 North Palm Beach ,  Florida , real estate developer.  Even so, that doesn’t mean the Republicans can’t mitigate
an Obama funding advantage. Independent outside groups, such as
 Karl Rove ’s American Crossroads, that helped the party win
control of the U.S. House in 2010 are preparing for 2012. And
prospective candidates are lining up major fundraisers and
preparing efforts to attract small donors.  Groundwork  “All of the potential serious candidates have been laying
that groundwork for a long time,” said former Republican
Representative Bill Paxon of  New York , a senior adviser at Akin
Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP. “Just because they haven’t
actually started collecting the resources doesn’t mean they
haven’t been working on building the infrastructure that will
allow them to collect the checks” when needed.  That infrastructure includes forming teams of people to
solicit money from wide circles of well-heeled donors. Such
“bundlers” have been a staple of presidential campaigns since
 George W. Bush  in 2000 became the first major-party nominee to
be elected president after declining to limit spending for the
primaries in exchange for federal funds.  “When they give the signal to go, the checks will be
written and the money will be there,” said Frank Donatelli, a
partner in the law and lobbying firm McGuireWoods LLP who raised
more than $100,000 for 2008 Republican presidential nominee  John McCain .  The longer the candidates wait to officially run, the
longer they can avoid spending campaign funds on staff,  office
space  and other expenses, Republican consultant Eddie Mahe said.  “The moment you start a committee, the overhead starts,”
he said. “That’s what’s holding everyone back.”  Small Donors  This cycle’s prospective Republican candidates are also
making plans to focus on small donors, following Obama’s 2008
example. Obama raised 54 percent of his money in contributions
of $200 or less, according to the  Center for Responsive
Politics , a Washington-based research group.  “One is cognizant of that,” said Sam Fox, chairman of the
St. Louis-based investment firm Harbour Group, who raised at
least $200,000 for Bush. “A lot of attention will be paid to
that particular aspect of raising money.”  At this point four years ago, virtually all of those who
became the main contenders for both parties’ presidential
nominations had announced plans to seek the White House. This
time, besides Pawlenty, the closest step toward an official
announcement came March 3 when former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of Georgia said he was setting up a  website  to raise
money to explore a presidential run.  Other Republicans have been using political committees to
raise and spend money on activities that could benefit a
presidential quest. These include hiring staff, developing donor
lists and traveling around the country to meet possible backers.  Palin’s Committee  Sarah Palin, the party’s 2008 vice presidential nominee,
contributed $463,500 last year from her political action
committee to Republican candidates and party committees,  Federal
Election Commission  records show. Former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney’s PAC had nine people on its payroll at the end of
2010, with part of their salaries paid for by separate
committees in five states that he set up to raise money.  Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour’s PAC this month hired
Jim Dyke, a former communications director for the  Republican
National Committee , and Mike Dennehy, campaign manager for
McCain’s victory over Bush in the 2000  New Hampshire  primary.  Pawlenty, too, used his PAC to pay political consultants in
 Iowa  and New Hampshire, where the opening contests in the
nomination race are held.  “It strains credulity to believe these activities are for
anything other than wanting to run for president,” said  Paul
Ryan , a lawyer with the Washington-based  Campaign Legal Center ,
an advocacy group.  $3 Billion  Analysts who track fundraising, such as  Craig Holman  of
 Public Citizen , say they expect the 2012 presidential election
to cost $3 billion -- almost 50 percent more than the $2 billion
the  Federal Election Commission  said was spent in 2008 by
candidates, the political parties and outside groups.  Obama, who raised a record $745 million in 2007 and 2008
for his presidential campaign and was the first major-party
nominee to reject public financing for the general election,
could raise $1 billion this time around, said Holman, who
lobbies on campaign finance issues for the Washington-based
advocacy group.  “He’s planning on it,” Holman said. “He thinks he’s got
to raise a billion dollars to have a chance for re-election.”  Josh Earnest, a White House spokesman, declined to comment.  Obama hasn’t yet declared his candidacy, though he is
taking steps to run. He rallied supporters at campaign-style
events in Miami and  Boston  earlier this month and met with
Democratic donors in  Washington  on March 16.  Outside Groups  While Obama’s eventual Republican challenger may not be
able to match the president’s fundraising, the nominee can count
on outside groups to help fill in the gap and promote the
party’s cause. Such groups spent $185 million on behalf of the
Republican message in the 2010 elections, almost $100 million
more than Democratic-leaning organizations.  “These outside groups on the right had an election to run
their system and see how it worked,” said Republican consultant
Alex Vogel, a partner in the lobbying firm  Mehlman Vogel
Castagnetti Inc.  “It did really well.”  Rove’s two Crossroads groups, which raised $71 million in
2010, said they would try to raise $120 million for 2012.  With the exception of  American Crossroads , most of the
Republican-leaning outside groups don’t disclose their donors,
and Senate Republicans have blocked legislation that would
require all funders of political ads to be identified.  “We are back to the Watergate era, where we don’t have any
adequate system of disclosure,” Holman said. “We’re going to
see more outside money than we’ve ever seen before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 