-- 
Obama Says He's Confident Libya Operation Command Issues Will Be Resolved

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-03-23T12:54:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/obama-has-no-doubt-u-s-can-hand-libyan-command-to-international-force.html
President  Barack Obama  said
yesterday that he is confident the coalition of nations involved
in Libyan military operations will be able to resolve their
command disagreements as he defended U.S. involvement in the
strikes.  Speaking to reporters in El Salvador, where he met with
President Mauricio Funes, Obama said a command transition
orchestrated by members of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization will be done “over the next several days.”  “I have absolutely no doubt that we will be able to
transfer control of this operation to an international
coalition,” Obama said at a press conference with Funes in San
Salvador.  Obama cut short his trip, skipping a planned tour of Mayan
ruins, and was to return to the White House at about 5 p.m.
Washington time today. Obama’s three-nation Latin American trip
that was overshadowed by the U.S.-led military action against
Libya began March 19.  Before leaving  El Salvador  today, Obama planned to meet by
conference call with his national security team as NATO allies
debated in Brussels on the next phase of the military action to
protect Libyans from attacks by leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s troops.  ‘Brutal Dictator’  At the news conference in El Salvador, Obama also said U.S.
involvement in the operation to establish a “no-fly” zone in
Libya to blunt attacks on civilians and opposition forces is in
the U.S.’s vital interest to stop a “brutal dictator.”  “At the end of the day, the American people are going to
feel satisfied that lives were saved,” he said. “Very shortly
we’re going to be able to say we’ve achieved the objective of a
no-fly zone.”  Obama linked the fighting in  Libya  to demonstrations that
toppled autocratic regimes in  Egypt  and Tunisia. He said a
victory for Qaddafi in Libya could imperil progress in those
nations.  “We have a huge national interest in making sure that
those are successful,” he said. “They become models for
peaceful transitions.”  About a dozen countries, including the U.S., France,  Italy 
and the U.K., are involved in the fifth day of military
operations in Libya, and are split over what command role to
assign to NATO.  The U.K. and Italy want NATO to take over the leadership of
military operations in Libya, a step resisted by France and
other members of the alliance, including Turkey, and some of the
Arab nations backing the air campaign.  ‘Unique Capabilities’  Obama said the U.S. took command at the start of the
campaign because of the “unique capabilities” of its military
for the initial attack on Libyan air defenses.  France , Italy and
the U.K. are among other nations involved in the operation,
which was authorized by a United Nations Security Council
 resolution .  While he deals with a dispute within the international
alliance, the president is also being pressed by Republicans and
some Democrats in Congress to provide a clearer explanation for
the U.S. action in Libya and to address concerns about whether
there is an exit strategy.  Obama said that the U.S. won’t bear all the costs of the
campaign and that so far the U.S. contribution is “relatively
modest.”  “We’re confident this is something we can budget as part
of our overall operations,” he said.  The U.S. has spent at least $168 million during the first
stage of the campaign, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  NATO Role  Obama spoke yesterday with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , and the three  agreed
that NATO should have a “key role” in the command of the air
campaign,  Ben Rhodes , the U.S. deputy national security adviser
for strategic communications, told reporters.  The allies are considering a proposal, backed by France, to
create a political steering committee that would oversee
military operations using NATO’s command structure. It would
consist of the 12 nations that have committed to participating,
according to a Western diplomat familiar with the discussions
who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Sarkozy, one of the most vocal proponents of the no-fly
zone, said full command by NATO risked prejudicing non-NATO Arab
forces. Germany and  Turkey , two NATO members, have opposed
putting the alliance in charge.  Turkey’s Views  Turkey may be key in the debate. Obama and Turkey’s Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  spoke by telephone yesterday and
“reaffirmed their support” for the UN mandate, the White House
said in a statement. Still, the Turkish leader was noncommittal
about future support of the operation, Rhodes said.  The coalition arrayed against Libya includes non-NATO
countries, and “not every single NATO ally is going to be
participating in the enforcement of the no-fly zone,” Rhodes
said.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  told reporters in
Moscow yesterday that “the question is if there is a way we can
work out NATO’s command-and-control machinery without it being a
NATO mission and without a NATO flag.”  Libyan Rebellion  The strikes were launched in response to gains by forces
loyal to Qaddafi in putting down a rebellion aimed at toppling
his government. Qaddafi’s forces last week had closed in on the
rebel stronghold of Benghazi after recapturing almost all the
towns they lost during the uprising.  The turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East, triggered
by the revolt that ousted President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
 Tunisia  on Jan. 14, led to the removal of President  Hosni Mubarak  in Egypt as well as protests in  Saudi Arabia  and  Syria 
and an uprising against the Sunni monarchy in Bahrain.  The situation in Libya has overshadowed each of Obama’s
stops on his five-day visit to Latin America. He arrived in El
Salvador yesterday from  Chile  and was in  Brazil  over the
weekend. He returns to the White House this evening.  The trip is aimed at deepening trade ties with the region,
including openings for U.S. companies in the region’s energy
development and infrastructure-building.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  