-- 
Mobius Buying Petrobras as Emerging Energy Equities to Rally on $100 Oil

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-03-22T15:27:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/mobius-buying-petrobras-as-emerging-energy-equities-to-rally-1-.html
Mark Mobius  said he is investing in
energy companies such as  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Brazil ’s state-
controlled producer, as he expects the price of oil to remain
above $100 per barrel.  “We’re very big believers in oil and gas and coal, because
the demand for this energy is growing day by day,” Mobius, who
as executive chairman of Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s
Emerging Markets Group oversees about $34 billion in emerging-
market assets, told clients in Johannesburg today.  Templeton’s funds have bought equities of Petrobras,
PetroChina Co., SK Innovation Co.,  South Korea ’s biggest
refiner, and  China  National Offshore Oil Corp., China’s largest
offshore energy producer, he said. Crude oil has gained 21
percent over the past 12 months as instability in the Middle
East has caused concern about deliveries. Petrobras comprises
3.8 percent of  Franklin Templeton ’s 30 million-pound ($49
million) Global Emerging Markets Fund, its third-biggest
holding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Globally, investors remain underinvested in emerging-market
economies, which are estimated to expand 5.9 percent this year
compared with 1.6 percent growth in their developed peers,
Mobius said. While emerging-market equities now comprise 32
percent of global stocks, up from 8 percent in 2000, they
comprise only 3 percent to 8 percent of most investors pension
funds’ exposure, he said.  PMI Signal  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed for a third day,
adding 0.6 percent to 1,116.25 at 4:18 p.m. in Johannesburg,
taking its increase over the past 12 months to 13 percent.  “The  bull market  will continue for a while,” Mobius said,
basing his outlook for the global economy on purchasing
managers’ indexes because business “know when the orders are
coming in.”  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index has been above 50, the
level that indicates expansion, for 13 months, while the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index, which gauges
manufacturing in the U.S., expanded at the fastest pace since
May 2004 in February.  India  is likely to benefit from its growing population to
become the best performer among so-called BRIC economies, which
also include Brazil, Russia and China, Mobius said.  India Outlook ‘Strong’  “I would say India, from a longer-term perspective, has
got the greatest potential, because of the population pyramid,”
Mobius said. “There are a lot of people in the younger age
group. Further down the road it’ll be India which is consuming”
more than China, he said.  India’s outlook remains strong even as inflation
unexpectedly quickened to 8.31 percent in February and as it
grapples with a corruption scandal around former
telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , who allegedly
received bribes for issuing cell-phone licenses at below-market
prices.  Meanwhile, Mobius said he sees “very exciting” investment
opportunities emerging from the political crisis in the Middle
East after the current upheaval ends.  Mass protests calling for regime change were successful in
toppling the presidents of Egypt and  Tunisia  this year, while
others in Libya and Bahrain have resulted in deadly
confrontations with the military. Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah
Saleh today signaled he may quit this year.  “The key I think is change,” Mobius said. A mass of young
and educated citizens are trying to overhaul economies that have
failed to provide them with jobs, he said. “The change they’re
going to move toward, in my view, is a more open, market
oriented society, which is great for us,” Mobius said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 