-- 
Ofcom Aims to Keep 4 Operators by Capping U.K. Spectrum Bids

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-03-22T14:05:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/ofcom-proposes-caps-for-u-k-mobile-phone-spectrum-auction.html
U.K. regulator Ofcom said it may
impose limits on the minimum and maximum amounts of mobile-phone
frequencies that  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and other operators can bid
for in an auction that may raise as much 2.6 billion pounds
($4.2 billion.)  The regulator said it wanted to maintain at least four
national operators in the market, according to a statement
today.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s 3 unit, the smallest of the four
operators, said previously it may be forced out if it fails to
win enough spectrum.  “There are risks to future competition if bidders are free
to acquire any amount of spectrum in an open auction,” Ofcom
said in the statement.  The auction, scheduled for the first quarter of 2012, will
sell frequencies equivalent to three-quarters of the spectrum
currently being used by operators. Carriers need the bandwidth
to cope with surging data demand as users watch films and surf
the Web on smartphones including Apple Inc.’s iPhone and
handsets using Google Inc.’s Android system.  “This is a fiercely contested area,” said Ofcom Chief
Executive Officer Ed Richards. “This is the strategic asset in
the market for the next 20 years.”  All the companies are seeking access to the valuable 800
megahertz band of low-frequency spectrum that can travel long
distances with fewer expensive base stations.  ‘Core Principle’  The number of operators fell to four from five after  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  merged their British units to
form the largest U.K. provider, Everything Everywhere, ahead of
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2 and Vodafone. The market may consolidate
further without intervention from the regulator, 3 said.  “Ofcom’s proposals set out the core principle that the
U.K. must retain four wholesale mobile operators,” 3 CEO Kevin Russell said today. “Against a background of consolidation in
the U.K and U.S., we believe this is a clear and strong
commitment from government and Ofcom.”  Ofcom said it also planned to impose a coverage obligation
of 95 percent of the U.K. population for one license in the 800
megahertz bandwidth.  The auction has been delayed for more than two years as the
regulator faced legal challenges. Vodafone and O2 previously
opposed restrictions on the amount of low-frequency spectrum
that they could bid for.  Dominance  O2 said today it had the opportunity to bid for
“sufficient spectrum” to operate higher-speed services, while
Vodafone said it was considering the proposals.  Vodafone and Telefonica are the only U.K. companies to hold
low-frequency 900 megahertz airwaves. Orange and T-Mobile hold
five times as much of the 1.8 gigahertz band than the other two
operators combined.  Everything Everywhere  said the plans do not reduce the
“dominance of the incumbent holders of this spectrum.”  “I hope that the debate doesn’t spill into litigation,”
Richards said. “I hope they all recognize that the U.K. needs
to move on with this now.”  The U.K. auction will follow the sale of low frequencies in
Sweden and  Germany , designed to enable operators to roll out
fourth-generation networks. The German auction last year raised
4.38 billion euros ($6.2 billion) from the disposal of airwaves
previously used to broadcast television services.  Based on the amounts spent in Sweden and Germany, the 800
megahertz band may be sold for between 1.4 billion pounds and
2.4 billion pounds in the U.K., according to  Analysys Mason , a
research firm in Cambridge, U.K. The sale of 2.6 gigahertz
frequencies may be valued at about 225 million pounds, based on
bidding in Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel in  London  at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  