-- 
Crude Oil Retreats Amid Concern Japan's Fuel Consumption May Drop on Quake

-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-03-23T07:56:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/oil-near-two-week-high-in-new-york-on-libyan-conflict-middle-east-turmoil.html
Oil fell in  New York  on speculation
fuel demand in  Japan  will decline after the world’s third-
largest crude consumer suffered its worst earthquake on record
on March 11.  Futures dropped as much as 0.6 percent as Japan weighed a
postwar-style reconstruction agency to oversee repairs. The
country’s economy may not rebound until the second half of this
year, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Oil
rose earlier on bets increased Allied air strikes in Libya will
prolong supply disruptions and turmoil elsewhere in the Middle
East will curtail exports.  “What’s going on in Japan is still uncertain, there isn’t
any clear sign when reconstruction will begin,” said Ryoma
Furumi, a broker at Newedge Group in  Tokyo . “But it may be
short term as financial investors who are trading crude oil are
focused on the Middle East and Libyan situation.”  Crude for May delivery dropped as much as 59 cents to
$104.38 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $104.75 at 3:54 p.m. Singapore
time. Yesterday, the April contract gained $1.67, or 1.6
percent, before expiring at $104, the highest settlement in two
weeks.  The  International Energy Agency  said March 15 it needed
more time to determine Japan’s oil demand after a magnitude-9
temblor and tsunami devastated the country’s northern coastline
and crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant. The
death toll has climbed to 9,408 as of noon today, with 14,716
people missing, according to the  National Police Agency .  Brent crude  for May settlement fell as much as 49 cents, or
0.4 percent, to $115.21 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Yesterday, it climbed 0.6 percent to $115.70.  Libya Attacks  Oil advanced earlier today as a U.S.-led alliance prepared
to direct more attacks in Libya, a member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries and the holder of Africa’s largest
crude reserves.  New York futures have rallied 24 percent since protests
against Libya leader  Muammar Qaddafi  began Feb. 15. The conflict
is the bloodiest in a series of uprisings that have toppled the
presidents of Tunisia and Egypt and spread to Algeria, Bahrain,
Iran, Oman, Syria and Yemen.  “Events in the Middle East and North  Africa  are the main
game in the crude-oil market and are the thing to watch in terms
of the direction of the oil price,”  Ben Westmore , a minerals
and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
Melbourne, told Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.”  Brent Forecast  Credit Suisse Group AG today raised its 2011 forecast for
Brent crude by 25 percent to an average of $105.80 a barrel and
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate by 10 percent to $93.80.
The Zurich-based bank cited accelerating global consumption
growth and output disruptions in the Middle East.  Crude inventories in the U.S., the biggest oil user,
probably increased for the ninth time in 10 weeks, a Bloomberg
News survey showed before an Energy Department report today.  Commercially held supplies rose 1.5 million barrels in the
week ended March 23, based on the median estimate of 15 analysts
polled. Stockpiles previously climbed to a three-month high of
350.6 million barrels as imports gained.  The Energy Department will release its Weekly Petroleum
Status Report at 10:30 a.m. today in  Washington . Yesterday, the
industry-funded American Petroleum Institute said oil
inventories gained 970,000 barrels to 350.8 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  