-- 
Tokyo, Osaka Bourses Spoke on Phone After Merger Reports

-- B y   T a k a k o   I w a t a n i   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-03-22T08:30:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/tokyo-osaka-bourses-spoke-on-phone-after-merger-reports-1-.html
Atsushi Saito, president of  Tokyo 
Stock Exchange Inc., said he and his counterpart at Osaka
Securities Exchange Co. spoke following press reports that the
two companies were considering a merger.  The two chiefs of  Japan ’s two biggest exchanges would meet
once markets “calm down,” Saito told a regular media briefing
today. It was inappropriate to discuss dates in the wake of the
country’s worst earthquake, he said. Saito said March 10 that
the Tokyo exchange was interested in acquiring its smaller rival.
Osaka President Michio Yoneda said on March 15 that he wanted to
discuss a merger “once the market settles down.”  “I won’t hesitate to meet President Yoneda,” Saito said
today. “Rather I would love to meet him.” Both presidents will
meet once circumstances are put into place, Saito said.  The merger between Japan’s two largest bourses would be
the latest in a　cascade of planned exchange tie-ups totaling
more than $21 billion since October, including Deutsche Boerse
AG’s agreement last month to buy  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  to create the
world’s largest exchange operator.  The Tokyo bourse will aim to boost its full-year operating
profit by 69 percent to 25 billion yen ($309 million) by March
31, 2014, as part of its mid-term business plan, Saito said.  “We plan to focus on high-liquidity derivatives and
exchange-traded fund markets,” doubling the volume of
derivatives trading through the year ending March 2014, Saito
said.  The bourse had operating profit of  14.8 billion  yen for the
year ended March 31, 2010, according to the exchange’s website.
Saito also said the exchange is aiming for a full-year operating
revenue of 73 billion yen for fiscal 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takako Iwatani in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 