-- 
Tokyo Disneyland's Parking Lot Turned Swamp Shows Risk of Reclaimed Land

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-03-23T00:39:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/tokyo-disneyland-s-parking-lot-turned-swamp-shows-risk-of-reclaimed-land.html
The  district  surrounding Tokyo
Disneyland may have to reinforce reclaimed land housing 96,000
people after last week’s magnitude-9 earthquake turned the
ground to mud, snapping utility pipes and tipping buildings.  The quake triggered ground liquefaction, which causes soil
to act like quicksand, across much of the 1,455 hectares (3,600
acres) of reclaimed land in Urayasu city, said Kazuhisa
Nakatani, a local government spokesman. Some of  Disneyland ’s
parking lot was also affected, trapping as many as 30 cars. The
main park areas didn’t suffer as they sit on 15-meter (49-foot)
deep reinforced foundations.  “There’s no question the earthquake damaged the area more
than expected,” said Yasuhiko Hino, the head of urban disaster
prevention projects at the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure,
Transport and Tourism. Houses in the suburban district were
most affected as they lack the concrete pilings that protected
high-rise buildings, he said.  Urayasu may consider reinforcing the reclaimed land, which
makes up about three-quarters of its surface area, once it has
finished dealing with emergency repairs following the March 11
earthquake, Nakatani said. At least one more runway at  Tokyo ’s
Haneda Airport may also be strengthened to bolster defenses
following the March 11 quake, the fifth largest ever  recorded .  “I was very surprised there was land damage to an area
like Urayasu, so far from the seismic center of the quake,”
said Yasuo Tanaka, a professor of geotechnical engineering at
 Kobe University . “They should have been prepared for
earthquakes, but given the damage, it clearly wasn’t enough.”  Kobe Quake  Ground liquefaction caused many buildings to lean over in
the 1995 Kobe quake, particularly around the port area, he said.
Toughened regulations since then helped prevent failures on
solid ground in last week’s temblor, he said.  The reclaimed land in Urayasu was built of mud and sand in
the 15 years ended 1980. Reinforcing work could entail
inserting pipes to extract water, installing steel piles or
pouring in concrete, said Tanaka. Concrete would be the most
expensive option, he said.  Any reinforcement work would require “a huge budget,”
said Urayasu’s Nakatani. The city, bordering the eastern edge
of Tokyo, is about 400 miles from the epicenter of the quake.
The temblor and a subsequent tsunami may have killed more than
20,000 people in  Japan ’s northeastern Tohoku region, based on
government figures.  Haneda Airport  All four of the runways at Haneda,  Asia ’s second-busiest
airport, were built on reclaimed land. None was damaged by the
quake. At least one of the two unreinforced strips may be
strengthened, said Keitaro Samizo, assistant to the head of the
transport ministry’s aviation-planning division.  Tokyo’s Odaiba Island, home to  Fuji Media Holdings Inc. (4676) ’s 
headquarters, is also built on reclaimed land and experienced 
liquefaction, according to Minoru Saito, a spokesman for the 
Tokyo Metropolitan Government’s Disaster Prevention division. No 
damage to utility pipes or other facilities that would disrupt 
residents’ lives occurred, he said. While the city has disclosed 
areas that are prone to liquefaction, it has no plans to conduct 
any large-scale land fortification, he said.  The last major earthquake to strike  Tokyo  and its environs
directly was in 1923, when more than 140,000 people were killed.
The  city  of about 13 million is adjacent to three major fault
lines, including the Nankai Trough, which produces a large
quake every 118.8 years on average. The last one, with a
magnitude of 8.4, was in 1854.  Power Shortages  Repair work on Disneyland’s car parks is almost finished,
said Hiroshi Kitamura, a spokesman for operator Oriental Land
Co. The  park , which opened in 1983, has been closed since the
temblor as Tokyo battles power shortages and transport
disruption.  A  Sapporo Holdings Ltd. (2501)  beer-processing plant in Funabashi,
near Urayasu, damaged in the quake also remains shut, spokesman
Tatsuya Komatsu said today.  Shigeyuki Nishinoyama, 54, who lives on the second floor
of a six-story block in Urayasu with his wife, said that the
quake caused part of his building’s parking lot to collapse.
There were no gas supplies until yesterday and the main
waterpipe is still broken, leaving the couple without running
water, he said.  Nishinoyama said he was warned about the risk of
liquefaction when he bought the house and he has no plans to
leave the area.  “I like the community and feel even closer to them after
this ordeal,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 