-- 
Tokyo Steel Moving Production to Plants in Western Japan

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-03-22T09:32:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/tokyo-steel-moving-production-to-plants-in-western-japan-2-.html
Tokyo  Steel Manufacturing Co.,
 Japan ’s largest electric-furnace mill, is moving some output to
plants in western Japan after the nation’s strongest earthquake
damaged its factory in Tochigi and lifted demand for the alloy.  The company is boosting production at its Okayama and
Kyushu factories in western Japan to cover shortfalls at its
Utsunomiya plant that remains shut after the quake, Managing
Director Naoto Ohori told reporters today in Tokyo.  The March 11 earthquake is creating demand for steel used
to build temporary shelters, produce dump trucks and reinforce
pillars supporting high-speed rail tracks to prevent damage from
quakes, Ohori said. Tokyo Steel joined Japanese manufacturers
shifting production to the areas unaffected by the 9.0-magnitude
earthquake and tsunami that killed at least 9,079 people and
displaced more than 300,000.  “The highest priority is to help earthquake-disaster
reconstruction,” Ohori said today. “We’re reviewing production
systems to maintain supplies.”  While the damaged Utsunomiya plant in Tochigi prefecture,
north of Tokyo, will likely resume shipments as early as this
week, it will have to be operated at lower rates due to power
outages stemming from the quake, curbing production, Ohori said.  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) , Japan’s largest steelmaker, said today
it has responded to requests by its merger partner  Sumitomo
Metal Industries Ltd. (5405)  to send engineers, equipment and materials
for repair works at the Kashima plant in Ibaragi prefecture, the
region hit by the quake.  Nippon Steel and Sumitomo Metal will combine operations to
create the world’s second-largest steelmaker.  Nippon Steel  Nippon Steel also  said  today operations at its Kimitsu
factory’s blast furnaces, near Tokyo, have reached the level
before the earthquake, while rolling processes are being
operated in line with the tightening power supply.  Nippon Steel shares surged 7.1 percent to 271 yen as of 3
p.m. trading close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, while Tokyo
Steel shares climbed 5.9 percent to 909 yen.  Tokyo Steel  said  today it maintained all of its product
prices for April contracts, as the market monitors the effect of
the quake on the Japanese and global economies.  H-beams used in construction will be priced at 81,000 yen
($1,000) a metric ton, while hot-rolled coils will be priced at
72,000 yen, the company said today in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  