-- 
Hong Kong Inflation Accelerates to 30-Month High on Rents

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-03-22T09:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/hong-kong-inflation-accelerates-to-30-month-high-on-rents-2-.html
Hong Kong ’s consumer prices rose at
the fastest pace in 30 months in February as food and rental
costs increased.  Inflation accelerated to 3.7 percent from a year earlier
after gaining 3.6 percent in January, the government said on its
website today. The number compared with the 3.6 percent median
estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Rising commodity costs and capital inflows triggered by the
strength of  Asia ’s recovery, and monetary easing in developed
economies threaten to fuel price gains across the region. Hong
Kong Financial Secretary John Tsang last month described
inflation as one of the government’s two main challenges this
year and forecast consumer prices could climb by 4.5 percent,
almost double last year’s increase.  “Inflationary pressure in the economy is likely to
increase in the coming months as global food and commodity
prices remain elevated and the feed-through from the earlier
rapid increases in private housing rentals continues,” the
government said in today’s release.  Average rents in Hong Kong for private housing increased 13
percent in February from a year earlier, Centaline Property
Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest privately held real-estate
broker, said in a release today.  Stocks rose in Hong Kong. The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  climbed 0.8
percent to 22,857.90, gaining for a third consecutive day, after
 Japan  made progress in stabilizing a crippled nuclear plant and
cement makers advanced on the prospect of higher demand.  Food Costs  Inflation is being “fueled by a spill-over impact from
rising food prices in mainland  China ,” Donna Kwok, a Hong Kong-
based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said before today’s data.
“We expect excessively loose monetary conditions and wage
inflation to continue stoking inflationary pressures.”  China’s food costs rose 11 percent from a year earlier last
month, boosting prices in the city which sources much of its
fresh food from the mainland.  Hong Kong’s government, robbed of an independent interest-
rate policy because of a currency pegged to the  U.S. dollar ,
plans to sell as much as HK$10 billion of inflation-linked bonds
to help residents cope with rising costs. Tsang announced the
sale on Feb. 23 when he issued his annual budget which also
earmarked an electricity subsidy and a waiver of property rates
to ease the impact of inflation.  Such aid can distort inflation data, the government said
today. Excluding the impact of these measures, inflation was 3.6
percent last month compared with 3.5 percent in January,
according to today’s report.  The economy may expand by 4 percent to 5 percent this year,
Tsang estimated last month.  -- With assistance from Michael Munoz. Editors: Nerys Avery,
Sunil Jagtiani  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  