-- 
Rise in Officer Fatalities Called ‘Unacceptable’ by Holder

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-03-22T15:29:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/more-needed-to-ensure-safety-attorney-general-holder-says.html
U.S. attorneys will meet with  law
enforcement  officials around the country to devise ways to
reduce an increasing and “unacceptable” number of fatal
attacks on officers, Attorney General  Eric Holder  said.  Holder made the comments at a meeting today with police
officials at the Justice Department in Washington. Holder
described the gathering as a “listening session” on officer
safety.  Following a two-year decline, law enforcement fatalities in
2010 increased to 162, from 117 the year before,  according  to
preliminary data from the National Law Enforcement Officers
Memorial Fund in Washington. There have been 49 deaths this
 year , up from 41 during the same period last year.  “These numbers are simply unacceptable,” Holder said.  Holder’s meeting included 31 officials from police
departments and law enforcement groups, according to the  Justice
Department . Among those attending were Charles Ramsey, the
Philadelphia police commissioner; Cathy Lanier, the Washington
police chief; and Ray Kelly, the New York City police
 commissioner .  U.S law enforcement officials, including Federal Bureau of
Investigation Director Robert Mueller and Michele Leonhart, the
head of the Drug Enforcement Administration, also attended.  The Justice Department is sending a memo to U.S. attorneys
around the country directing them to meet with local law
enforcement to discuss officer safety programs, said  Matthew
Miller , a department spokesman.  Recent deaths of federal agents include John Perry, a U.S.
marshal who was shot in St. Louis this month after trying to
serve an arrest warrant. A U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agent, Jaime Zapata, was shot dead in February while
working in  Mexico .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  