-- 
Osborne’s Budget Said to Raise 1 Billion Pounds a Year From Rich

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-03-22T00:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/osborne-s-budget-said-to-raise-1-6-billion-a-year-from-britain-s-wealthy.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will close tax loopholes used mostly by the wealthy to
raise revenue by about 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) a year in
his budget tomorrow, a person with knowledge of the plans said.  About 700 million pounds a year will come from ending
disguised remuneration, which includes employees benefiting from
getting compensation in shares at a later date, said the person,
who declined to be named because the proposals are not yet
public. Osborne will also unveil plans to charge individuals who
use private jets  the same taxes  as those who take scheduled or
charter flights.  Osborne will say in his budget speech that the clampdown on
 tax avoidance  will raise a total of 5 billion pounds by 2016,
the person said. That money will be used to ease the pressure on
households facing a squeeze in  living standards .  The chancellor mapped out a plan last June to almost
eliminate the  budget deficit  with the biggest spending cuts
since World War II. This week’s measures are part of an effort
by Osborne to show voters that the rich are paying their share.  Implementation of the fiscal program, including plans to
slash more than 300,000 public-sector jobs over four years,
begins fully next month, at a time when unemployment has risen
to 8 percent after the economy contracted in the fourth quarter.  Incomes Decline  Households saw real incomes fall 360 pounds annually from
2008 to 2011 in the largest three-year decline since the early
1980s, the  Institute for Fiscal Studies  said yesterday.  Osborne will also tell lawmakers that a plan to hire extra
tax inspectors specializing in compliance at a cost of over 900
million pounds will raise as much as 7 billion pounds a year by
2015, the person said. He cut the Revenue and Customs
department’s budget in October by 3 billion pounds over four
years, including almost a quarter of the department’s frontline
staff.  Though most of the measures to bring in extra money have
already been announced, Osborne will use the budget to spell out
how much money he will get from the plans, the person said.  The plans to charge a levy on executive-jet flights come as
Osborne has decided to delay an increase in air-passenger duty
for all other flights. The private-jet tax will raise as much as
30 million pounds a year, while delaying a rise in APD for all
travelers for a year will cost about 150 million pounds, the
person said.  Double Relief  Also included in the plans is an effort to stop large
companies selling, leasing back and then reacquiring the same
machinery or plant over a period of weeks in order to claim tax
relief twice on a single item.  Osborne may face a deteriorating economic outlook as he
presents his second budget, with government forecasters
predicting weaker growth, higher unemployment and more
borrowing, analysts say.  The  Office for Budget Responsibility  -- which monitors
 government borrowing  and makes economic forecasts -- may say
unemployment will rise to about 8.2 percent this year compared
with the 7.9 percent prediction it made in November. The deficit
will increase over the next two years amid weaker growth,
analysts say.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  