-- 
Mother Tells UN’s Ban How Son’s Suicide Sparked Tunisian Revolt

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-03-23T13:29:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/mother-tells-un-s-ban-how-son-s-suicide-sparked-tunisia-revolt.html
United Nations  Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon made his last appointment in Tunis his most
meaningful one: a visit with the mother of the 26-year-old
unemployed Tunisian whose self-immolation sparked a revolution.  Ban heard firsthand of the despair that led her son to set
himself on fire outside the governor’s office on Dec. 17. His
death 19 days later triggered protests over unemployment,
corruption and rising food prices that culminated in President
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali’s Jan. 14 flight to  Saudi Arabia .  “Mohamed Bouazizi’s story is as tragic as it is
inspiring,” Ban told a gathering of civil society at the
Regency Hotel in Tunis. “His cry resonated so widely that
 Tunisia  and the rest of the Arab world will never be the same.”  The UN chief’s first foray in the region since the start of
the popular uprisings began in Cairo and ended today in Tunis.
Over his four-day visit, he sought to see for himself the
“winds of change” in Tunisia and  Egypt  that have since spread
to Bahrain, Yemen and Jordan.  “I am proud of my son, my son who contributed to the
liberation of Tunisia,” Manoubieh Bouazizi said following her
10-minute meeting with Ban at the Regency Hotel in Tunis. Her
comments in Arabic were translated into French by one of her
daughters. “I am sure where my son is, he is happy.”  ‘Daily Indignities’  To support his extended family, including a sister at
university, Bouazizi sold fruit and vegetables on a street in
rural Sidi Bouzid, a four-hour drive from the capital. He was
harassed and heckled by local police for not having a permit and
his cart, the source of his livelihood, was confiscated. That
final humiliation was the last straw.  “The real violation was the affront to Mohamed Bouazizi’s
sense of human dignity,” Ban said. “The daily indignities, the
crushing of a people’s potential.”  Ban’s visit to Egypt was also imbued with nods to important
events in the country’s recent history.  On March 20, his arrival to Cairo coincided with 18 million
people taking part in Egypt’s first referendum after the ouster
of President Hosni Mubarak, with 77.2 percent of voters backing
constitutional changes that pave the way for summer elections.  On the same day he held a joint news conference with Arab
League Secretary-General Amre Moussa, one of Egypt’s most-
experienced diplomats and a contender to be the country’s next
president, Ban met with Internet activist Wael Ghoneim, the
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  manager whose 11-day detention turned him into a
hero for a disaffected Egyptian youth that drove the Jan. 25
revolt in Middle East’s most populous country.  Egypt’s Internet Activist  Ghoneim is the founder “We are all Khaled Said,” a
Facebook Inc. page dedicated to a young Egyptian man whose death
following a beating by Egyptian police was one of the catalyst
for protests.  The trip wasn’t without setbacks. To reach Paris for an
emergency international summit on  Libya , Ban had to hitch a ride
with Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero. Half
an hour into his flight to Cairo, his plane had to turn back. He
had to borrow a 13-seat French ministerial jet.  Five hours behind schedule, Ban went straight into a
meeting with Egyptian Foreign Minister Nabil El-Arabi. That was
followed by an aborted effort to walk on Tahrir Square -- scene
of massive demonstrations last month that toppled President
 Hosni Mubarak .  ‘Down, Down USA!’  Ban was forced to turn back by security guards when he was
encircled by an angry mob of pro-Qaddafi demonstrators chanting
“Down, Down, USA!” and waving fists at him. Looking serene and
even faintly amused, the secretary-general was escorted back to
the Arab League headquarters via a back entrance.  “This is very democratic free society, where people have
freedom of assembly, freedom of expression, whether positive or
negative, against or for the Government or for the United
Nations,” Ban told reporters in Cairo later. “I am prepared to
receive any such expression, whether it is against the United
Nations or for the United Nations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Tunis at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  