-- 
Toyota Plaintiffs Challenge NASA Sudden-Acceleration Report

-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-03-22T03:19:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/toyota-plaintiffs-challenge-nasa-sudden-acceleration-report.html
Lawyers representing hundreds of
people suing  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  over incidents of sudden
acceleration challenged a  NASA  report that found electronic
flaws weren’t the cause of problems that resulted in the
recall of thousands of vehicles.  Plaintiffs’ experts will contradict the findings in the
NASA report, conducted for the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, and will prove Toyota’s electronic
throttle control system is the cause of sudden acceleration,
lawyers said in court papers filed last week in  Santa Ana ,
 California , Federal Court.  Toyota, based in Toyota City,  Japan , urged U.S. District
Judge James V. Selna to take judicial notice of the findings.
The NASA conclusions could then be used by Toyota as
factually true during trials that are scheduled to begin in
2013.  “Toyota asks this court to take judicial notice of
findings and conclusions by NASA and NHTSA that are hotly
disputed in this litigation,”  Steve Berman , the plaintiffs’
lawyer, wrote. “If this court took judicial notice of the
disputed findings and conclusions, plaintiffs would be barred
from challenging them in this litigation.”  NASA concluded in the Feb, 8 report that incidents of
unintended sudden acceleration in Toyota vehicles were rooted
in mechanical flaws such as sticking accelerator pedals and
floor mats that jammed the pedals or were caused by driver
error.  Electronics Systems  The findings were cited in Toyota’s court filings and
news releases to support the automaker’s contention that its
electronics systems weren’t at fault in hundreds of reported
cases of sudden acceleration.  The NASA study wasn’t expansive enough because engineers
reviewed 280,000 lines of computer code from a total of 8
million in the automaker’s electronic systems, the plaintiffs
said.  The plaintiffs also cited crystalline structures that
emanate from tinned surfaces, known as “ tin whiskers, ” as a
new cause of the unintended acceleration.  The microscopic particles “can create catastrophic
problems in electronic components,” the plaintiffs said.
“Tin whiskers were implicated in the complete failure of
three in-orbit commercial satellites,”  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and
Products Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Callahan in  San Diego  at 
 callahan@san.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  