-- 
Toyota to Halt Japan Car Assembly Until March 26 After Quake

-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-03-22T20:21:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/toyota-to-halt-car-assembly-at-all-domestic-factories-this-week.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
largest carmaker, will halt operations at all of its domestic
car-assembly plants through March 26 as Japan’s record
earthquake continues to delay parts supplies.  The company made the decision after checking the status of
parts makers in Japan following the magnitude-9 earthquake off
the coast of Sendai on March 11, said  Shiori Hashimoto , a
spokeswoman for the company. Toyota may lose production of
140,000 vehicles since March 14, with electronic parts, rubber
and plastics in short supply, Hashimoto said.  Toyota and Japanese rivals’ efforts to resume output are
complicated by the need for hundreds of different components
from suppliers whose plants may have been damaged by the
earthquake and subsequent tsunami.  Japan  also faces electricity
shortages after a nuclear-power plant was crippled, as well as
transportation infrastructure disruptions.  “All it takes is one plant making one item for which
there’s no short-term supply to throw things off,” said Michael Smitka, professor of economics at  Washington  and  Lee University 
in Lexington, Virginia, who studies Japan’s manufacturers and
economy. “It’s the random stuff that affects the supply chain
and could cut production for an extended period.”  Honda Motor Co. extended its closing of two auto-assembly
plants and a motorcycle factory in Japan until March 27,
“considering the current situation of the nationwide recovery
efforts in Japan and the supply of parts from our suppliers,”
the Tokyo-based company said  today on its website .  Toyota Falls  Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each representing
two ordinary shares, fell 75 cents to $83 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Honda’s ADRs, each
representing one ordinary share, dropped $1.17, or 2.9 percent,
to $38.77.  Toyota, Honda,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and other large manufacturers may
be unable to fully restart production and shipments until the
end of March, Smitka said.  “You can’t get trucks in and out of the area affected by
the disaster,” Smitka said. “In some cases, a road or bridge
may be open, but with only one lane available. Are you going to
try to put through a shipment of machinery at the expense of
getting through a shipment of food?”  Toyoda Blog  Toyota President  Akio Toyoda  wrote on his  blog  on March 16
that he was receiving daily reports from employees visiting
regions of Japan most affected by the earthquake.  “We will be able to recover in Japan and reconstruct areas
hit by the earthquake,” he said. Toyoda, 54, didn’t comment
directly about the impact of the earthquake and tsunami on
Toyota.  Toyota has established a companywide  task force  to assess
the impact of the earthquake on the company, its employees and
suppliers, Hashimoto said.  The Toyota City, Japan-based  automaker  and  its affiliates 
have 18 car-assembly factories in the nation, mainly in Aichi
prefecture.  “It may not become fully clear until they restart
production where some of the problems are in the supply lines,”
said John Shook, chairman and chief executive officer of the
Lean Enterprise Institute in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and a
former Toyota engineer.  “The extent to which they have a few suppliers in the
northeast and are going to be hampered getting access to that
region will have an impact,” Shook said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  