-- 
Peru’s Sol Bonds Falls to 9-Month Low After Humala’s Poll Gains

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-03-22T22:21:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/peru-s-sol-bonds-falls-to-9-month-low-after-humala-s-poll-gains.html
Peru  bonds fell to a nine-month low
after polls showed support for Ollanta Humala, head of the
Andean country’s nationalist party, is growing three weeks
before the first round of presidential elections on April 10.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 rose 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 6.50 percent, according to Deutsche Bank
AG’s local unit. The bond’s price fell 0.73 centimo to 109.36
centimos per sol, the lowest since June.  Foreign investors are reducing their sol-bond holdings
after two research groups published polls this week showing a
greater chance Humala, an ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo
Chavez  who seeks greater state control over the country’s
natural resources, will reach a run-off vote with one of the
other four main candidates. Overseas investors bought Peru’s
bonds last year to profit from an appreciating sol as the
nation’s central bank raises  interest rates .  “The potential demand for dollars is very high” if
foreign investors continue to reduce their bond holdings, said
Gonzalo Navarro, head trader at  Banco Santander  in Lima.  Non-residents held 43 percent of the government’s sol bonds
last year, after owning almost none in 2003, according to the
Finance Ministry.  As Humala’s chances of making it to a runoff vote improve,
investors are now concerned his presidency could threaten
foreign direct investment in Peru’s mining industry, which
drives the currency, said Joe Kogan, head of emerging markets
strategy at Scotia Capital Markets Inc., in an e-mailed note to
clients today.  The sol rose 0.1 percent to 2.7814 per  U.S. dollar  at the
close of trading, from 2.7827 yesterday as Peruvian firms led by
mining companies are selling dollars to make annual tax payments
in soles beginning March 25 through the first week of April.  The central bank didn’t buy dollars in the foreign exchange
market today or issue certificates of deposit payable in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  