-- 
Pfizer, Quigley Seek Court Approval of Asbestos Settlement

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-03-22T20:24:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/pfizer-reaches-asbestos-settlement-that-may-end-quigley-unit-s-bankruptcy.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, reached a settlement with asbestos claimants that may
bring an end to its Quigley unit’s seven-year-old bankruptcy
case.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein refused to allow
Quigley to exit Chapter 11 court protection in September, saying
Pfizer had manipulated the bankruptcy process to benefit itself.
Pfizer and a committee of asbestos claimants entered into an
agreement on March 20 that may resolve their dispute over
claims, according to court papers filed yesterday in  Manhattan .  The accord “resolves the legal and equitable issues that
existed under that plan, including enhancing distributions for
current claimants and future demand holders, improving
reorganized Quigley’s long-term feasibility, and rectifying
concerns regarding good faith,” lawyers for Quigley wrote.  Asbestos claims against Quigley may total $4.45 billion
during the next 42 years, according to testimony cited by
Bernstein in September. Under the deal, which requires court
approval, asbestos claimants would vote in favor of Quigley’s
bankruptcy plan and waive all rights to a  jury trial .  In exchange, Pfizer would contribute $264.9 million in cash
and all of the stock in a reorganized Quigley to a trust to pay
asbestos claims. New York-based Pfizer also would forgive its
own claims against the non-operating unit, according to a draft
of the plan.  ‘Best Interests’  “Once Quigley’s reorganization plan is presented to and
confirmed by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, asbestos-related
liability arising from Quigley will be resolved through a fund
established as part of the bankruptcy reorganization,” Pfizer
spokesman Christopher Loder said in a statement. The agreement
is “in the best interests of the company,” he said.  Pfizer in November reported a $701 million third-quarter
charge for asbestos litigation for Quigley. The ad hoc
committee, representing 43,100 asbestos claimants, had asked the
court to lift an injunction that has barred them from bringing
claims against Pfizer since 2004.  Quigley, founded in 1916, made three products for the steel
industry that contained asbestos from the 1940s to the 1970s.
Pfizer bought Quigley in 1968.  The case is In re Quigley Co., 04-15739,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan at +1-
   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 