-- 
Pimco Said to Raise $1.5 Billion for Private Fund Targeting Bank Assets

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-03-22T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/pimco-said-to-raise-1-5-billion-for-private-fund-targeting-bank-assets.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s largest mutual fund, raised more than
$1.5 billion for a private pool to buy assets from banks looking
to strengthen their balance sheets, according to two people with
knowledge of the fundraising.  The Pimco Bravo fund, short for Bank Recapitalization and
Value Opportunities, will buy debt such as troubled commercial
and residential mortgages, and may invest directly in banks
through securities including warrants and convertible debt, said
the people, who asked not to be named because the fund is
private. Pimco is still accepting money and expects to raise $2
billion to $3 billion in total before a final close later this
year, said an investor briefed on the plans.  Pimco, best known for its fixed-income mutual funds such as
those run by  Bill Gross , has raised at least $6.5 billion from
institutional clients to buy troubled mortgages and bonds backed
by real-estate loans since the global financial crisis began in
late 2007. Financial institutions are selling assets after
setting aside money for losses on the debt and international
regulators last year agreed to tighter capital standards under
the so-called Basel III guidelines.  “You’ve got community and regional banks out there that
have been every quarter adding to their loss reserves,” said
David Tobin, a principal at Mission Capital Advisors in  New
York , which advises banks on real-estate debt and helps clients
sell loans.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco, declined to comment.  Community Banks  The Bravo fund will target smaller lenders and community
banks and will be run by a team of Pimco fund managers led by
Dan Ivascyn, a portfolio manager in the mortgage and asset-
backed securities group, and  Scott Simon , head of the group,
according to the investor. Pimco also hired professionals from
real-estate investment firm JER Partners, the investor said.  Similar funds by Pimco include the Pimco Distressed
Mortgage Fund II LP, started in early 2009, which has returned
about 60 percent annually after fees, one of the people said.
The Pimco Distressed Mortgage Fund LP, which opened in October
2007 before the crisis peaked and lost almost a third of its
value the following year, produced annualized returns since
inception exceeding 10 percent, the person said.  Hedge funds  investing in distressed securitized debt such
as bonds backed by mortgages returned 28.7 percent on average
last year, compared with 15.9 percent for funds focused on
distressed corporate debt, according to industry researcher
HedgeFund.net.  Delinquent  McColl Partners LLC, an investment bank founded by former
Bank of America Corp. Chief Executive Officer Hugh McColl, will
help Pimco invest in bank capital, the investor said. Midland
Loan Services Inc. and Trimont Real Estate Advisors, two firms
that service commercial loans, will help manage delinquent
loans, according to the investor.  Sales of bad mortgages have been limited because banks
remain generally reluctant to sell at prices that would let
buyers profit, according to Erik Rand, manager of mortgage
finance at St. Louis-based Stifel Financial Corp.’s Stifel
Nicolaus unit.  “It’s still very, very hard to find assets that are for
sale at a level that a buyer could make money on,” Rand said in
a telephone interview. “We’ve heard of some funds winding down
because they couldn’t find enough products.”  ‘Very Hard’  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender, is a “very
active seller” of commercial real estate as it seeks to limit
losses on assets accumulated through acquisitions, Chief Risk
Officer Bruce Thompson said at a March 8 investor presentation.
Bank of America and State Street Corp., the third-largest
custody bank, sold mortgage-backed holdings last year, citing
changing capital rules.  The number of banks considered “problem” institutions by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. rose to 884 last quarter,
the highest since March 1993. Problem banks’ assets fell to
379.2 billion, after peaking in the first quarter of 2010 at
$431.2 billion.  Pimco’s Bravo fund may also buy new home loans, though that
won’t be its focus, the people said.  Investment firms such as  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT) , the  Mill
Valley , California-based company that completed the only two
private securitizations of new home loans since mid-2008, and
BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest money manager, have also
been seeking to buy new home loans.  Firms say they anticipate increased opportunities because
of regulatory changes that may reduce the size of the mortgages
that government-supported programs can handle, and force issuers
of mortgage-backed bonds to retain some risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in  Boston  at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 