-- 
Pinetop Perkins, ‘Boogie Woogie’ Blues Piano Player, Dies at 97

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-03-22T04:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/pinetop-perkins-boogie-woogie-blues-pianist-waters-sideman-dies-at-97.html
Pinetop Perkins, the  Mississippi 
Delta-born piano player who started a solo career in his 70s
after performing with fellow bluesman Muddy Waters for more than
a decade, has died. He was 97.  He died yesterday at his home in Austin,  Texas , the
 Associated Press  reported, citing his manager, Hugh Southard.
The cause was cardiac arrest.  Perkins got his nickname from “Pinetop’s Boogie Woogie,”
a song by another pianist that he recorded for  Sun Records . The
title described his style of playing rhythm patterns with his
left hand and melodies and improvisation with his right.  Waters, known as the father of Chicago blues, hired Perkins
in 1969 and featured him on four albums made in a 1970s
comeback. While Perkins’s first U.S. solo album wasn’t released
until 1988, he made up for lost time by recording 15 albums in
15 years.  “I just wanna make people happy and make a dollar or
two,” Perkins told Toronto’s Globe and Mail newspaper in 2006.
“It’s all I know to do.”  Perkins outlived most of his peers even though he smoked
from the age of 9, battled alcoholism into his 80s and ate at
McDonald’s Corp.’s fast-food restaurants daily.  In 2007, he became the oldest musician to receive a  Grammy
Award . He was honored for playing on the album “Last of the
Great Mississippi Delta Bluesmen: Live in  Dallas .” Two years
earlier, he had won a lifetime-achievement award from the
National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, which sponsors
the Grammys.  The  Blues Foundation  named its piano player of the year
award for him after he won the category 12 times in a row, from
1992 to 2003. He received a National Heritage Fellowship from
the National Endowment for the Arts in 2000.  Third-Grade Education  Joe Willie Perkins was born in  Honey Island , near the Delta
town of Belzoni, Mississippi, on July 7, 1913. His father, Sandy
Perkins, was a Baptist preacher; his mother, Hattie, was an
American Indian. Both were tenant farmers.  Elmore James , a blues
singer-guitarist who influenced countless musicians, was his
cousin.  By the time he was 9, his parents split. He and Hattie,
along with his sister, lived with his grandmother. His mother
introduced him to cigarettes and whiskey.  Perkins quit school after third grade to work on a cotton
plantation and never learned to read. His stepfather taught him
the guitar, his first instrument, when Perkins was 10. He later
learned how to tune and repair pianos as well as play them.  As a teenager, he left home after a beating from his
grandmother. He moved north to  Tutwiler , Mississippi, where he
performed with a church choir, and then to  Clarksdale , where he
played at house parties and juke joints. He also worked at local
plantations and, at one point, helped run a moonshine still.  Dropping the Guitar  Perkins met slide guitarist Robert Nighthawk in the 1930s
and guitarist Earl Hooker, John Lee Hooker’s cousin, in the
early 1940s. He performed with both musicians and later toured
with Ike Turner, who learned the piano from him, and B.B. King.  In 1943, he began playing on Nighthawk’s radio show for
station  KFFA , based in Helena,  Arkansas . Sonny Boy Williamson,
the harmonica player born Rice Miller, had a rival KFFA program
called King Biscuit Time. Perkins joined Williamson’s band, the
King Biscuit Entertainers, and stayed for most of the 1940s.  A stabbing in a Helena hotel room severed the tendons in
his left arm and forced him to give up the guitar. His attacker
was a chorus girl whose ex-husband had locked her in the
bathroom as a practical joke. Perkins was the first man she saw
after escaping.  The injury also led him to create what Jon Pareles, a New
York Times music critic, once  described  as “his own mixture of
boogie-woogie and blues, by turns elegant and sly and blunt.”  Auto Mechanic  Perkins moved to Cairo,  Illinois , in 1949 and made a living
as an auto mechanic. He performed on Nighthawk’s “Jackson Town
Gal,” a 1950 single from a forerunner of Chess Records. At an
Earl Hooker show, he went half-deaf when his eardrum ruptured.  “ Pinetop’s Boogie Woogie ,” written and originally
performed by Clarence “Pinetop” Smith, was recorded in 1953
when he backed Hooker at a Memphis session for Sun. Perkins had
performed the song live for years, and the nickname stuck.  Perkins moved to  St. Louis  in the late 1950s and then to
Chicago in 1960. He spent most of the decade performing in the
city’s blues clubs. In 1968, he appeared on Hooker’s “Two Bugs
and a Roach” album.  Waters then picked him to replace Otis Spann, who had gone
solo. “ Hard Again ,” the first of four Waters albums produced
by Johnny Winter, introduced Perkins to a broader audience in
1977. He performed on all three follow-ups and in “ The Last
Waltz ,” The Band’s 1978 concert film, directed by  Martin Scorsese .  ‘Blues Brothers’  In 1976, Perkins recorded “ Boogie Woogie King ,” a
European solo album. Four of his songs were included two years
later in an anthology series, “ Living Chicago Blues .” In 1980,
he appeared in the “ Blues Brothers ” movie as part of John Lee
Hooker’s band.  Waters’s band left him in 1980 after a dispute over money.
Perkins joined with three fellow sidemen to form the Legendary
Blues Band and appeared on the group’s first two albums. In
1987, he made a cameo appearance in the movie “ Angel Heart .”
His U.S. debut album, “ After Hours ,” was released the
following year.  At 83, he stopped drinking after a bout of alcoholism that
resulted in multiple drunken-driving convictions and a 1994
stint under house arrest. Sara Lewis, his partner for 30 years,
died in 1995 -- the same year he went through rehab.  Perkins moved to La Porte,  Indiana , after completing his
treatment. He relocated to Austin in 2004 with the help of
Clifford Antone, owner of Antone’s nightclub, and received the
key to the city on his 92nd birthday.  Before living with Lewis, Perkins was married to a woman
named Adelaine. He had four children, including twins by another
woman he once met while on tour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  