-- 
Poland May Need April Interest-Rate Increase, Policy Maker Zielinska Says

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-03-22T09:49:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/poland-may-need-april-interest-rate-increase-policy-maker-zielinska-says.html
Polish  interest rates  may need to
rise in April to cool inflationary expectations sparked by food
and fuel-price growth, Anna Zielinska-Glebocka of the central
bank’s Monetary Policy Council said.  “Recent data are a signal for me that an interest-rate
increase should be seriously considered in April,” Zielinska-
Glebocka said in a March 18 interview in Gdansk. “I believe
that the second quarter is key, because then the impact of
previous tightening on inflation expectations may be apparent
and we’ll know if one or two moves are needed.”  Policy makers around the world are struggling to contain
accelerating inflation, driven by surging food and fuel prices.
The  Narodowy Bank Polski  raised borrowing costs in January for
the first time since June 2008, and left them unchanged in March
after the  unemployment rate  rose to 10-month high and fourth-
quarter GDP data showed sluggish investment growth.  Investors reduced bets for rate increase in April after the
inflation rate unexpectedly held at an 18-month high of 3.6
percent in February. Forward-rate agreements used to lock in
interest costs one month from now indicate Poland’s benchmark
seven-date rate will remain unchanged at 3.75 percent, based on
the difference between the 1-month FRA and the three-month
Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate to which it settles.  Vigilance  While the rate-setting panel is unable to affect fuel and
food prices, it needs to monitor “vigilantly” whether they are
spurring inflation expectations and driving  core inflation ,
which excludes energy and food costs, as it may trigger demand-
driven price growth, Zielinska-Glebocka said.  Rising employment as well as food and fuel price increases
may trigger wage demands and an interest-rate increase would
allow the council to “shape inflation expectations” and keep
demand inflation from growing, she said.  Zielinska-Glebocka said the inflation rate may rise to as
high as 4 percent in coming months and that she is “skeptical”
about the central bank’s forecast that food and commodity prices
will fall in the second half of the year.  February’s lower-than-expected inflation rate, which came
in below the 3.9 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 24 economists, “hasn’t calmed me,” she said, noting that
the risk of wage pressures remains.  “The Monetary Policy Council took the right decision” in
March by holding off on another tightening of policy until it
was “sure that the economic-growth trend and forecasts of
accelerating inflation are confirmed,” she said. “Now, it
turns out that the developments we feared are there.”  ‘Anchor’  Companies boosted hiring 4.1 percent in February, the
fastest annual growth since September 2008. More jobs will be
added as a “very high” level of capacity utilization indicates
that private fixed investments are about to rebound, Zielinska-
Glebocka said. Rising demand for labor is likely to accelerate
average corporate wage growth from an annual 4.1 percent in
February and boost unit labor costs, she said.  Zielinska-Glebocka said economic growth may reach 4.5
percent this year and won’t slow in 2012, helping boost
inflation expectations which the central bank needs to
“anchor.”  “With the uncertainty on global markets, the time-lag
between a rate decision and its impact on the economy has been
severely curtailed, so we don’t have that much time,” she said.  The Monetary Policy Council started raising its main
interest rate with a quarter-point increase from a record-low
3.5 percent.  Poland  was following Hungarian policy makers, who
started tightening their policy in November to tame inflation.  “It’s probably too late for moves of 50 basis points so
smaller increases should be expected,” said Zielinska-Glebocka.
“If we see no effect following yet another rate adjustment,
however, we may have to try stronger moves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  