-- 
Polish Core Inflation Undershoots Estimate, Cooling Bets on Rate Increases

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-03-22T15:21:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/polish-february-core-inflation-accelerates-to-1-7-slower-than-estimates.html
Polish  core inflation  was slower
than analysts expected in February, backing central bank
Governor Marek Belka’s claim that markets are overpricing the
potential for interest-rate increases this year.  The core inflation rate, which strips out food and fuel
prices from the consumer price index, rose to 1.7 percent in
February from 1.6 percent in the previous month, the  Central
Statistical Office  in Warsaw said today on its website. The rate
was below the 2.1 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of 18 economists. On the month, core inflation was 0.1 percent.  Markets are overestimating the scale of Polish interest-
rate increases, which three-month forward-rate prices suggest
could amount to a full percentage point over the next year,
central bank Governor Marek Belka was quoted today as saying by
the central bank’s Obserwatorfinansowy.pl website. His comments
came after the  consumer price index  held steady at 3.6 percent
in February, compared with a market forecast of 3.9 percent.  “Even taking the CPI release into account, we expected
core inflation to be higher,”  Maciej Reluga , chief economist at
Bank Zachodni WBK SA, said by phone. “This definitely backs up
what Belka was saying.”  Forwards Fall  One-month forward-rate agreements used by investors to
speculate on borrowing costs within a month fell 4 basis points
to 4.26 percent, while the yield on the government’s bond
maturing in April 2016 declined 2 basis points to 5.79 percent.  The FRAs show investors still expect the central bank to
raise  interest rates  in April, a move that Anna Zielinska-
Glebocka of the central bank’s monetary council, who spoke in an
interview today, said should be considered. The Narodowy Bank
Polski raised rates in January for the first time since mid-2008
in order to curb inflation and keep the zloty from weakening.  “We may have seen lower-than-expected data recently, but
the economy is still doing fantastically well and the inflation
and wage dynamics are clearly on the upside,”  Lars Christensen ,
chief emerging-markets analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen,
said by phone.  The zloty declined against the euro after today’s data,
falling to 4.0342 from 4.0279 at 4:02 p.m. in Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  