-- 
Pound Advances to $1.64, Gilts Slide as U.K. Inflation Surpasses Forecasts

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-03-22T16:45:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/pound-strengthens-to-two-week-high-versus-dollar-before-cpi-data-release.html
The pound strengthened to $1.64 for
the first time since January 2010 and gilts slumped as U.K.
inflation accelerated more than economists forecast, renewing
speculation that the  Bank of England  will raise interest rates.  Sterling appreciated the most in a month versus the euro,
while gilt yields jumped to the highest in a week. Consumer
prices rose 4.4 percent in February from a year earlier,
according to the  Office for National Statistics , higher than the
4.2 percent median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Separate data also showed Britain’s budget deficit
unexpectedly widened.  “The markets are rebuilding in rate-hike prospects,” said
 Adam Cole , global head of foreign-exchange strategy at Royal
Bank of Canada in London. “We know inflation is going to
overshoot for a prolonged period.”  The pound rose 0.5 percent to $1.6387 as of 4:18 p.m. in
 London  and earlier reached $1.6401, the strongest level since
Jan. 19, 2010. Against the euro, sterling strengthened 0.7
percent to 86.64 pence.  The yield on 10-year gilts rose eight basis points to 3.60
percent. The 3.75 percent bond due September 2020 fell 0.6, or 6
pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,625) face amount, to 101.18. The two-
year note yield increased eight basis points to 1.30 percent.  U.K. inflation is running at its fastest pace since October
2008 and has held above the central bank’s 2 percent target for
15 months. Commodity prices have surged and the pound’s 25
percent drop on a trade-weighted basis since the start of 2007
has boosted import costs.  Sonia Forwards  Bank officials were split at February’s policy meeting on
whether to raise borrowing costs to tame price pressures. Policy
maker  Andrew Sentance  voted to raise the key interest rate a
half point from a record low of 0.5 percent. His colleagues
 Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale  favoured a quarter-point increase,
and the remaining six members of the MPC voted for no change.  Sentance today said that with inflation “set to rise
further, failure to take timely monetary policy action risks a
more abrupt and destabilising rise in interest rates in the
future.”  He commented in a speech in Suffolk,  England . Minutes of
the March meeting are published tomorrow.  Today’s consumer-price report prompted investors to bet the
central bank will increase borrowing costs as early as July,
sooner than previous predictions.  U.K. borrowing costs will rise by 25 basis points in July,
according to forward contracts on the sterling overnight
interbank average, or Sonia. Before the data was published at
9:30 a.m. in London, the forwards showed bets for the first 25
basis point increase coming in August.  Short-sterling futures fell, sending the yield on the
contract expiring in December up nine basis points to 1.48
percent, as traders increased bets on a rate increase.  Deficit Figure  The U.K. five-year breakeven rate, an indication of
investors’ inflation expectations over the life of the
securities, derived from the yield gap between conventional and
index-linked bonds, rose nine basis points to 2.85 percent.  Net borrowing in February by the government was 11.8
billion pounds, compared with 9.5 billion pounds a year earlier,
ONS data today showed. The median of 13 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a shortfall of 7.2 billion pounds.
Government revenue fell 0.9 percent and spending rose 4.6
percent.  The figures come a day before Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  presents updated forecasts in his annual budget.
Osborne has vowed to stick to plans to eliminate the bulk of the
deficit by April 2015.  The pound may advance to $1.66 should it hold its gains for
the rest of the day, according to Investec Plc.  “If we see a close above $1.64, the pound could come into
its own a little bit and especially given that we’ve got MPC
minutes tomorrow and we’ve got the U.K. budget, which can throw
the pound around,” said Lee McDarby, head of dealing on the
corporate and institutional treasury desk at Investec in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 