-- 
Punch Taverns to Sell Thousands of Pubs, Split Itself in Two

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-03-22T16:59:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/punch-taverns-to-sell-thousands-of-pubs-split-itself-in-two-4-.html
Punch Taverns Plc (PUB) , a U.K. operator
of more than 6,700 outlets, plans to sell almost half of its
6,000 leased pubs and split in two, creating two separate listed
companies, as it struggles with rising debt and falling profit.  “We need a more radical approach, targeting a core estate
of around 3,000 pubs over the next five years,” said Chief
Executive Officer Ian Dyson who when he joined in September
pledged to tackle the company’s strategy. “The status quo isn’t
sustainable, change is required. We are very confident we have
the right plan for the business.”  The Burton-Upon-Trent, England-based company plans to
demerge Spirit, the managed pub division that includes brands
such as Chef & Brewer, Fayre & Square and Flaming Grill. The
demerger will leave Punch with about 6,000 tenanted pubs which
it rents to landlords. It will seek to sell around 500 of these
a year until it is left with a core estate of 3,000 outlets.  Punch has been hit by recession, a smoking ban and cheap
supermarket alcohol which has kept many consumers at home.
Britain’s unemployment rate has risen to the highest since 1994
while the government has set out plans to reduce spending and
cut more than 300,000 public sector jobs. Sales of lager in pubs
and bars slumped 7.5 percent last year, according to the  British
Beer and Pub Association .  Bondholders  Punch, whose share price has fallen more than 95 percent
since May 2007, has seen its debt increase to 3 billion pounds
mainly because of acquisitions, including the purchase of Spirit
Group, before the credit crisis. Punch said its new focus on
managed pubs, where eating out is likely to grow over the next
five years, will help its recovery.  The plan will need the approval of Punch’s bondholders. He
“needs to engage” with bondholders in an effort to optimise
the “ capital structure ,” said Dyson, former finance director
at retailer Marks & Spencer Group Plc. Net debt at Punch reached
3.14 billion pounds ($5.14 billion), the company said in
October.  “I think it makes sense, there is no real synergies,”
between Punch’s managed and leased pub estates, Sanjeet Aujla,
an analyst at Credit Suisse Group, said in a phone interview
today. “It buys them time to renegotiate securitization terms
with bondholders. The value will be in the managed estate.”
Aujla has an ‘outperform’ rating on the stock.  The  GMB Union , which represents tied tenants, said Punch’s
decision to sell part of its leased estate is “abandoning”
tenants.  Punch rose 1.7 pence, or 2.3 percent, to 75.25 pence at the
4:30 p.m.  close in  London  trading, giving the company a market
value of 483.9 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast News at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 