-- 
Putin Stokes Libya Crusade Spat on NATO Bombing Anniversary

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-03-23T07:43:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/putin-stokes-libya-crusade-spat-as-visit-recalls-nato-bombings.html
In 1999,  Russia  was among the most
vociferous critics of Western air attacks on a maligned
dictator. Today, as Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  visits the
site of those bombings in Belgrade, little has changed.  Putin, who on March 21 condemned the air and missile
strikes waged by the U.S. and its allies in Libya as a
“crusade,” will meet Serbian President  Boris Tadic  on the eve
of the 12th anniversary of the launch of an air bombing campaign
in  Yugoslavia  by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  The Libya intervention risks souring ties between Russia
and the European Union, which accounts for 54 percent of the
country’s  trade , with Putin holding the reins of power before
2012 presidential elections that may return him to the Kremlin.
Russian opposition to the 78-day offensive aimed against Serbian
leader  Slobodan Milosevic  prompted a rift with the West, leading
the country to suspend cooperation with NATO in 1999.  “Putin is very, very suspicious of Western activism
wherever it happens,” Tony Brenton, U.K. ambassador to Russia
from 2004 to 2008, said in a phone interview yesterday. “But
there are huge distinctions between what happened in Yugoslavia,
where we bypassed the  Security Council , and what is going on in
Libya, where we worked through the Security Council.”  ‘Tragedy’  The Russian prime minister warned yesterday that “the
number of victims is growing” from the conflict in Libya.
“Those who take part in this tragedy should think about it,
they should think about it and pray for the salvation of their
souls,” he said after talks with Slovenian Prime Minister Borut Pahor in Ljubljana.  Putin, whose rhetoric provoked a rare clash with President
 Dmitry Medvedev , was expressing his “personal point of view”
about events in the North African state, Dmitry Peskov, the
premier’s spokesman, told reporters yesterday in Ljubljana. The
president “has the final say on foreign policy and no splits
are possible,” Putin told reporters in the Slovenian capital.  Putin had criticized last week’s  United Nations  resolution
authorizing military action in Libya, which Russia didn’t veto,
as “defective and flawed.” Medvedev defended the UN decision,
saying that he had allowed it to pass because he “broadly”
agreed with it. Putin also said the allied strikes were killing
only civilians, accusing the countries conducting them of having
no “conscience.”  Kosovo  Russia backed Milosevic in 1999, leading then-Prime
Minister Yevgeny Primakov to turn around his plane en route to
the U.S. over the Atlantic Ocean as NATO threatened air strikes
to force Serbian troops to withdraw from the breakaway province
of  Kosovo  and end the persecution of mainly Muslim ethnic
Albanians in the territory.  Kosovo unilaterally declared independence from  Serbia  in
2008, which Russia has refused to recognize.  Russia risks spurring capital flight if relations with the
West deteriorate. Investors, locals and companies pulled more
than $300 billion from Russia from its five-day war with Georgia
in August 2008 until the middle of February 2009, according to
BNP Paribas SA.  Russia’s net  outflow  of capital reached $38.3 billion in
2010, more than the official $22 billion forecast. That compared
with $56.9 billion a year earlier, central bank data published
on Jan. 13 showed. The country last had a net inflow in 2007,
when it reached $81.7 billion.  Investment Wanes  Medvedev, who said on March 21 that foreign direct
investment was at an “unacceptably low level,” has sought to
lure capital by promoting Moscow as a financial center and
creating a private equity fund to allow the government to share
risks with foreign investors and help “modernize” the economy.  The EU is the main investor in the economy of the world’s
biggest energy exporter, accounting for 75 percent of foreign
direct investment, according to the  European Commission .  Even so, Russia may adopt a far more hostile attitude if
the U.S. and European nations leading the offensive in  Libya 
introduce ground forces or seek to overthrow Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi , said  James Sherr , head of the Russia and
Eurasia Program at London-based research group,  Chatham House .
This would run counter to its interests of improving relations
with the West to attract foreign investment, he said.  ‘Unmanageable’ Dilemma  “The dilemma could become unmanageable for Russia if
events in Libya take a very adverse turn which lead the core of
the current coalition to change their objectives,” Sherr said
in a phone interview.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , in Russia for talks
aimed at resolving a dispute over a planned U.S. missile defense
system that Russia has warned could spark a new arms race,
expressed surprise at Putin’s remarks.  “I’m a little curious, frankly, about the tone that has
been taken,” Gates told reporters after meeting Russian
counterpart Anatoly Serdyukov yesterday. Putin appeared to be
taking at face value “outright lies” by Qaddafi about the
number of civilian casualties, he said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  has made a priority of mending
relations with Russia after they sank to a post-Cold War low
following the Russian invasion of  Georgia , a U.S.-allied former
Soviet nation. Russia and the U.S. signed a nuclear arms
reduction treaty last year.  Medvedev, 45, a trained lawyer picked by Putin to replace
him as president in 2008 because of a constitutional ban on
serving more than two consecutive terms, is a more acceptable
partner for the West than Putin, said Masha Lipman, an analyst
at the Moscow Carnegie Center.  Final Say  Yet Western nations know that Putin, 58, a former colonel
in the Soviet-era KGB, has the final say on all policy and is
the one who will decide which of the two men stands in 2012 for
president.  “One of the reasons Putin picked Medvedev was because he
represents a more acceptable face to the West, but Putin remains
the final arbiter,” Lipman said. “Of course Western countries
would prefer Medvedev to stay on but these leaders are aware of
who has the upper hand in Russia.”  Brenton said the hope is that the Western military
intervention in Libya won’t last long enough to cause any
lasting damage, with cooperation over Iran and  Afghanistan  at
stake.  “Our hope and I would guess their expectation is that
internal forces in Libya will now quickly remove Qaddafi and
then we will all get on with working with whoever replaces
him,” Brenton said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  