-- 
Rajaratnam Defense Team Targets Wiretaps in Cross-Examination

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-22T17:50:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/rajaratnam-defense-says-wiretap-information-wasn-t-secret-sometimes-wrong.html
Raj Rajaratnam’s defense team
attacked the government’s insider trading case against the
Galleon Group LLC co-founder by showing the confidential
information he allegedly received was sometimes wrong.  Prosecutors yesterday played secretly recorded wiretaps of
Rajaratnam’s friend Rajiv Goel passing tips to him about Intel’s
Corp.’s planned investment in a new wireless network company
formed by Clearwire Corp. and Sprint Nextel Corp. The tapes from
March 2008 include Goel, an ex-Intel managing director, telling
Rajaratnam about the company’s plan to invest $1 billion in a
high-speed Internet business and other details of the new
company.  In a roughly four-hour cross-examination of Sriram Viswanathan, an Intel vice president who was testifying for
prosecutors, defense attorney Terence Lynam had him recount
inaccuracies in Goel’s comments, speculative comments that Goel
and Rajaratnam made, and details that a money manager like
Rajaratnam wouldn’t deem important for trading.  “You’re not a professional money manager, so you can’t
testify how Mr. Rajaratnam evaluated any of the information Mr.
Goel told him?” Lynam asked.  “That’s not my expertise,” Viswanathan testified.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips leaked
by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders. He says his trades
were based on legitimate research and denies wrongdoing.
Rajaratnam may spend as long as 20 years in prison if convicted
of fraud.  Deal Testimony  Viswanathan’s testimony precedes that of Goel, who has
pleaded guilty and will testify for prosecutors. The government
summoned Viswanathan to testify about the details of the deal
that Goel disclosed were important to the company.  In his cross-examination of Viswanathan, Lynam sought to
show that Goel did not disclose company secrets. The lawyer
noted that Goel’s information about an Intel board meeting, the
size of Intel’s stake in the new company, and other terms of a
proposed wireless venture was inaccurate.  Lynam also reviewed press accounts and analyst reports
speculating on a possible deal in a bid to show there was avid
speculation about a possible deal.  After the cross-examination, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  had Viswanathan review facts Goel had disclosed that
prosecutors say Rajaratnam could not have obtained from any
public source, before the deal was announced on May 7, 2008.  Confidential Information  Among the confidential information that Goel disclosed was
the amount of Intel’s investment, the percentage of ownership
that Intel would acquire of the new company, and the amount of
cash that the new company would have.  “Is there a difference between speculation in news reports
and what you actually knew,” Streeter asked.  “Yes, there is a difference,” Viswanathan replied. “The
accuracy of facts.”  Brodsky also showed jurors an internal memo circulated to
Intel executives before an investor conference in March 2008.
The memo gives advice to Intel executives about ways to talk to
investors.  “You are not authorized to discuss material, nonpublic
information on any topic, it can be a federal offense,” the
memo stated.  “This is not like speaking with reporters,” the memo said.
“This is ‘selective disclosure’ which is like ‘tipping inside
information to traders.’”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net .
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 