-- 
Rand Gains as Current-Account Gap Falls and Japanese Nuclear Crisis Eases

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-22T15:24:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/rand-gains-as-current-account-gap-falls-and-japanese-nuclear-crisis-eases.html
The rand gained for a third day as
 South Africa ’s current-account gap narrowed to the lowest in
seven years and on optimism the worst of Japan’s nuclear crisis
may be over, boosting investor demand for high-yielding assets.  The currency of Africa’s biggest economy advanced as much
as 0.8 percent to 6.8983 per dollar, and traded 0.7 percent
stronger at 6.9047 at 4:52 p.m. in Johannesburg, the best
performer among more than 20 emerging-market currencies
monitored by Bloomberg. The rand has climbed 2.8 percent since
March 18. Against the euro, the rand appreciated 0.9 percent to
9.8051.  South Africa’s shortfall in the current account, the
broadest measure of trade in goods and services, shrank as
miners boosted exports of platinum and coal while imports fell.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose for a third day after a
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission official said the situation
at the earthquake and tsunami-damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
reactors “is on the verge of stabilizing.”  “The rand has been strengthening as a result of better
news out of  Japan ,” Chris Becker, an analyst at Johannesburg-
based Econometrix Treasury Management, which advises clients on
currency transactions, said by phone. “The current-account data
supported” the currency’s advance.  Export Volumes  The current-account gap fell to 0.6 percent of gross
domestic product from 3.1 percent in the previous three months,
the Reserve Bank said in its quarterly bulletin released in
Pretoria. The median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a deficit of 2.7 percent of GDP. The shortfall
eased to an annualized 17 billion rand ($2.5 billion) in the
fourth quarter from 83.2 billion rand in the previous three
months.  While growth in export volumes slowed to 3.4 percent in the
fourth quarter from 6.7 percent in the previous three months,
its value climbed 5.5 percent to an annualized 616.7 billion
rand in the same period, the bank said. Import volumes
contracted for the first time in more than a year in the fourth
quarter, dropping by 2.2 percent, as companies held back on
investment because of subdued demand in the economy, it said.  “A staggeringly good current account deficit print will do
much to boost the rand for now,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa
economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in a
note to clients.  Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan said there is “light at
the end of the tunnel” in the battle to avert a meltdown at the
crippled nuclear power plant. Western intervention in  Libya  also
boosted higher-yielding assets on speculation it will help
return stability to the country. South Africa’s benchmark stock
index advanced as much as 1.4 percent.  ‘Risk-On’ Day  “A risk-on frame of mind seems to have returned,”  Michael Keenan , a Johannesburg-based analyst at  Standard Bank  said in an
e-mailed note. “Risky assets such as equities are rallying.”  Government bonds  gained after the  Reserve Bank  reported
that  consumer spending , which accounts for two-thirds of demand
in the country, eased in the fourth quarter, fuelling
speculation the central bank will leave its benchmark interest
rate at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent until 2012.  The 13.5 percent government bond due September 2015 rose
the most in almost two weeks, adding 26 cents to 120.99 rand,
driving the yield down 6.4 basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 7.844 percent.  “We remain confident that  interest rates  will stay at
current levels until early in 2012,” analysts led by
Johannesburg-based Johan Botha at Standard Bank said in an e-
mailed note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 