-- 
Reagan Tax Cuts Offer Crutch in Kingdom of Lame: Matthew Lynn

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 
2011-03-22T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/reagan-tax-cuts-are-crutch-in-kingdom-of-lame-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
Who should U.K. Chancellor George Osborne emulate this week when he delivers his second budget
speech since the coalition government took power last year?  A reformist prime minister such as  Margaret Thatcher ? A
crisis leader like  Winston Churchill ? Neither of them. He should
have  Ronald Reagan  in mind.  In the 1980s, the former U.S. president wasn’t afraid to
take chances with the economy. He cut the top rate of tax to 28
percent from 70 percent, even though he inherited a budget
deficit of about $80 billion from  Jimmy Carter ’s administration.  Osborne should take the same gamble. The debt crisis in
 Europe , the U.S. and  Japan  means the U.K. isn’t likely to be a
target for the bond markets any time soon. Britain can afford to
take the chance that cutting taxes will get the economy moving
again, and end up paying for tax cuts. It worked for Reagan when
he tried it three decades ago.  The U.K. was hit as hard by the credit crunch as any
developed economy. Its heavy reliance on banking and financial
services, a rampant  property market  and consumers who borrowed
money with the wild enthusiasm of kids left alone in a candy
store left it highly vulnerable.  There are some glimmers of life. Manufacturing has started
to recover, helped by a weakening of the pound. The U.K. is
starting to produce and export things again, and it is a long
time since that has been true. Unemployment has risen but not by
as much as some people expected.  Economy in Doldrums  And yet the U.K. economy remains in the doldrums. It will
grow 1.5 percent this year, according to the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development. The budget deficit
remained massive at more than 11 percent of gross domestic
product in the last fiscal year. Inflation was stubbornly high
at 4.2 percent last month, and at some point the  Bank of England 
may need to raise  interest rates  so much that it may snuff out
any recovery that is under way. If there are new industries
about to spring up, there is not much sign of them yet.  What’s the way out?  The easy answer is that the government needs to promote
economic growth. The trouble is there are not many levers at its
disposal. What industries should the U.K. be specializing in for
the future? High-tech manufacturing? Media? Pharmaceuticals? Or
should it just bet the house on ramping up its banking and
financial-services industries again? No one really knows, and
certainly not the government. Even if it did know, how exactly
is it going to make that happen?  Tax Cuts  In truth, the only way government can stimulate growth is
by cutting taxes and letting entrepreneurs get on with the job.
Britain is now a  high-tax country  by global standards. A top
income- tax rate  of 50 percent is one of the highest in the
developed world.  It’s hurting. About 43 percent of London-based financial
professionals have either considered or are considering leaving
the U.K. because of the burden of taxes, according to a poll by
the London-based group  Policy Exchange . It found that 11 percent
have already made up their minds to go.  Companies are reaching much the same conclusion. A few
high-profile businesses have already left Britain. More
important is the number of multinational companies that will
just do a bit less of their business in the country. According
to the Policy Exchange poll, 25 percent of senior corporate
managers thought they would move teams out of Britain because it
had become so expensive to remain there. Individually, those
don’t matter much. Add them all up, and it will amount to a lot
of economic damage to the U.K.  Irish Advantage  Osborne needs to turn that around fast. Once business
leaves a country, it takes a long time to get it back again. He
should start by slashing the top tax rate back to 40 percent.
Getting corporate tax down should be his next priority -- why
not compete with Ireland’s 12.5 percent rate, particularly as
Ireland may be forced to get rid of it as part of the price of
the bailout by its fellow euro nations?  The objection, of course, is that you can’t cut taxes while
the  budget deficit  is so huge.  Not true.  The U.K. has managed to hang on to its AAA credit rating,
and it looks safe for now.  After all, bond investors have to put their money
somewhere, and few major economies look in great shape. The euro
area has a major sovereign-debt crisis. Japan doesn’t look much
better. Nor does the U.S.  In the kingdom of the lame, the guy with a crutch looks
like a good bet. Right now that is the U.K.  That gives Osborne a window of opportunity.  He can cut taxes now, let the budget deficit widen a
little, and the bond markets will let him get away with it.  It is, of course, a gamble. He’ll be betting that lower
taxes will stimulate enterprise, get growth moving again, and so
provide the  tax revenue  that will get the deficit back under
control. And he’ll be betting that the bond markets won’t turn
on Britain the way they have on Greece and Ireland.  But Reagan would have taken that wager.  George Osborne 
should follow his lead.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  