-- 
Treasuries Hold 3-Day Loss Before Data on Homes, Durable Goods

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-22T01:18:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/treasuries-hold-three-day-decline-before-reports-on-homes-durable-goods.html
Treasuries held a three-day loss
before reports this week that economists said will show new home
sales and orders for durable goods orders increased last month.  Demand for  government securities  waned as Japan made
progress in averting a nuclear meltdown, increasing investor
appetite for higher-yielding securities. The U.S. said yesterday
it plans to sell holdings of agency-guaranteed mortgage-backed
securities bought during the global financial crisis.  “We’re still bearish,” said Tomohisa Fujiki, an interest-
rate strategist at BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.
“The  U.S. economy  is still on a recovery track. Inflation
expectations are getting higher and higher.” BNP’s U.S. unit is
one of the 20 primary dealers that trade directly with the
 Federal Reserve .  Ten-year notes yielded 3.32 percent as of 10:15 a.m. in
Tokyo, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader. The 3.625 percent
security due in February 2021 traded at 102 17/32. The yield
advanced 13 basis points in the past three days.  New home sales  rose 2.1 percent in February from January,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
before the Commerce Department report tomorrow. Orders for
durable goods advanced for a second month, a separate survey
showed before the department issues the figure on March 24.  Treasuries fell yesterday as Japan Prime Minister Naoto Kan
said progress is being made in restoring power to reactors. The
Treasury Department said demand for mortgage-backed securities
guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac has improved along with
broader financial conditions.  “Geopolitical worries are not over, but there does seem
to be a better tone overseas,” said Michael Pond, an interest-
rate strategist in  New York  at Barclays Plc, also a primary
dealer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 