-- 
Rendell Praises Christie’s Push to Rein In New Jersey Employee Pensions

-- B y   M a t t   W i n k l e r   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-22T18:29:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/rendell-praises-christie-s-push-to-rein-in-new-jersey-pensions.html
Former Pennsylvania Governor Edward G. Rendell praised  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie  for
efforts to reduce government-employee benefits, saying pensions
“are not supportable in their current state.”  “If Governor Christie is going after them, it’s the right
thing to do,” Rendell, a Democrat who left office in January
after two terms, said today at the  State and Municipal Finance
Briefing  hosted by BloombergLink in  New York .  Christie, a first-term Republican, said March 15 he won’t
“play nice” with lawmakers or employee unions to get his
pension proposals approved. The funding deficit in New Jersey’s
pension system increased 18 percent to $53.9 billion as of June
30 from a year earlier as the state failed to make contributions
for most of the past decade.  In his budget for the year that begins in July, Christie
proposed expanding property-tax credits if lawmakers pass his
plan to make workers pay 30 percent of their health-insurance
premiums by 2014. He also proposed a $506 million payment into
the pension system, the minimum required by a new state law, if
lawmakers roll back a 2001 benefits increase, freeze cost-of-
living adjustments and raise the  retirement age  to 65 from 62.  Pension Payments  Christie, 48, who took office in January 2010, skipped a $3
billion pension payment to help balance his first budget, saying
he wouldn’t put money into a “broken system” until his
overhaul is approved. Democrats control both houses of New
Jersey’s Legislature; all 120 members face re-election in
November.  Moody’s Investors Service in September lowered its outlook
to negative on $31.6 billion in bonds sold by New Jersey, citing
underfunded pensions, budget gaps and a slow economic recovery.
Christie’s pension proposal would be a “credit positive” for
the state in the long term, Baye Larsen, a Moody’s analyst,
wrote in a February report.  Recovery from the U.S. recession and the withdrawal of
federal economic-stimulus spending are the key elements for
closing unprecedented deficits in many state budgets, Rendell
said. The ability of unions to bargain collectively isn’t a
major cause of those shortfalls, he said.  Union Negotiations  “The idea that unions always win is ludicrous,” said
Rendell, 67. “If the public is willing to take a strike and
suck it up, you will win that collective bargaining every
time.”  Rendell,  Pennsylvania ’s governor from 2003 to 2011, is a
partner at the Philadelphia law firm of Ballard Spahr LLP and a
senior adviser at Greenhill & Co. He was succeeded by Republican
Tom Corbett.  Pennsylvania last year approved measures that Rendell
estimated would save the state $16 billion in pension payments
over the next 25 years. The law signed by Rendell in November
raises the retirement age to 65 from 60 for newly hired state
workers and 62 for school employees and cuts the formula used to
calculate benefits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Winkler in New York at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in New York at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  