-- 
Republicans ‘Hard-Pressed’ to Change U.S. Bank Overhaul, Barney Frank Says

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-03-22T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/republicans-hard-pressed-to-change-bank-overhaul-frank-says.html
U.S. Representative  Barney Frank ,
the Democrat who co-authored legislation overhauling the
financial industry last year, said House Republicans will be
“hard-pressed” to change the law substantively.  “The Senate won’t go along and the president won’t go
along,” Frank, of  Massachusetts , said yesterday on public
television’s “ Charlie Rose ” program. Democrats control the
Senate and White House.  House Republicans have worked in recent weeks to chip away
at the Dodd-Frank Act, releasing bills to make changes to the
law. Republicans have vowed to strike or revise specific
provisions, rather than push to repeal the entire law. For those
efforts to succeed, Republicans would need broad support within
their party and bipartisan backing in the Senate.  The Republicans won’t stay united on changes to the law,
primarily because their own members would split on the issues,
Frank said.  “The Tea Party is not that crazy about derivatives,” said
Frank, the top-ranking Democrat on the  Financial Services
Committee . “There’s a populist element there and they don’t
mind us regulating credit cards.”  Frank reiterated his opposition to a provision in the law
to cap debit-card interchange, or “swipe” fees, charged to
merchants on each transaction.  The  Federal Reserve  in December  proposed  capping the fees
at 12 cents, replacing a formula that averages 1.14 percent of
the purchase price. The caps, set to take effect July 21, may
cost banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as
much as $12 billion a year. The proposal set off a lobbying
fight on  Capitol Hill  pitting retail and small-business groups
against banks and payment networks including  Visa Inc. (V)   ‘Major Focal Point’  “There was one thing I didn’t want, and it’s now become
the major focal point of controversy, and that’s the debate
between the credit-card companies and the retail merchants,”
Frank said.  JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank, cited the lost
revenue from the proposed cap in deciding to stop offering
debit-card rewards for almost all customers in July. The company
is mailing letters to consumers announcing the change, said  Tom Kelly , a bank spokesman.  Bipartisan groups of House and Senate lawmakers have signed
onto legislation to delay the Fed proposal. It’s not clear
whether a delay would change the bank’s plans, Kelly said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  