-- 
Tribune Creditors Can Sue Former Shareholders, Bankruptcy Judge Rules

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-03-22T19:31:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/tribune-creditors-can-sue-former-shareholders-judge-says-in-delaware.html
Tribune Co.’s creditors can file a
second round of lawsuits against former shareholders who
collected billions of dollars when the bankrupt publisher was
taken private in a 2007 buyout, a federal judge said today.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey in Wilmington,
 Delaware , agreed to allow individual creditors to file lawsuits
in state courts that are similar to a case already on file in
federal court. The official committee of unsecured creditors
sued Tribune’s biggest former shareholders last year, claiming
the buyout left the company insolvent.  Once filed, any potential lawsuits can’t go forward while
Chicago-based Tribune is locked in a court fight with creditors
over two competing reorganization plans, Carey said. He asked
creditors to work with shareholders opposed to the lawsuits to
draft an order he can sign that reflects his intention.  “We are not looking to create chaos here,” said Daniel Golden, an attorney for Aurelius Capital Management LP, a pre-
buyout note holder. “Most important is the filing of those
complaints.”  Next month Carey will continue a hearing to help him decide
which of two competing reorganization plans he should approve.
Both plans would allow a trustee to sue larger shareholders.  Creditors have until June 4 to file their lawsuits in state
courts, Golden said in court.  Insurance Policy  Company managers, including Chairman  Sam Zell , the real-
estate billionaire who lead the buyout, won permission to have
their legal defense bills paid by an insurance policy that
covers directors and officers.  Carey overruled an objection by the official committee of
unsecured creditors, which argued for a delay in making the
money available until the lawsuits begin moving forward. The
lawsuits, brought by the committee, accuse Zell and other top
managers of pushing forward with the buyout even though they
knew it would leave Tribune insolvent.  Under both plans,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and the other
lenders that funded the $8.2 billion buyout would be the
majority owners of Tribune. The company filed bankruptcy in
2008, one year after the buyout. Tribune says in court records
that it is worth about $6.75 billion. It has about $13 billion
of debt, most of it from the buyout.  Tribune owns eight newspapers, including the  Los Angeles
Times  and the  Chicago Tribune , with a combined daily circulation
of 1.9 million last year. The company’s 23 TV stations include
sites in  New York ,  Chicago  and  Los Angeles .  Tribune’s 4 7/8 percent bonds that were due last year fell
by more than 6 percent to 42 cents on the dollar according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  