-- 
Richmond Fed Service Firm Survey for March (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-03-22T14:05:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/richmond-fed-service-firm-survey-for-march-text-.html
The following is the text from
the Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s service sector activity
survey for March.  Overview  Activity in the broad service sector picked up in March, pushed
by gains at non-retail firms, according to the latest survey by
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Retail sales activity
remained soft, with continued weakness in big-ticket sales.
Shopper traffic flattened and retail inventories dipped compared
to a month earlier. In contrast, revenues climbed sharply at
non-retail services firms. Overall, survey respondents expected
business to strengthen during the next six months.  In service sector labor markets, the report was mixed; retailers
reduced payrolls and services firms added new employees. Average
wage growth intensified, particularly at services-providing
firms.  Price growth inched up in March and survey respondents
anticipated somewhat faster increases during the six months
ahead. However, their outlook was little changed from last
month’s prediction.  Service Sector  Overall service sector revenues grew in March, although the
increase was diluted by continued weakness in retail sales. The
revenues index rose to 14 from February’s 11. Hiring was more
widespread at services firms, while retailers made cuts this
month. The number of employees index shed two points to settle
at 8. Average wage increases prevailed in March, with the index
picking up four points to end the survey period at 10. Survey
respondents expected stronger sales during the next six months,
with that index jumping six points to 23.  Retail Firms  Retail sales were anemic in March, with the index staying at −12
for a second month. Separately, big-ticket sales also remained
down; at a reading of −33, that index changed only slightly from
last month’s −37. Shopper traffic nearly flattened, bringing the
index up 10 points to 1 in March. Retail inventories declined,
with the index falling 26 points to −6. Merchants predicted
sales would remain weak, but their outlook was much-improved
from a month ago. The expectations index picked up 19 points to
reach −12 in March.  Employment in the retail sector pulled back in March as
merchants cut jobs, leaving the index at −7 following February’s
3. Average retail wages moved ahead with less gusto than a month
earlier -- that index retreated 17 points to a reading of 10.  Services Firms  Activity at non-retail services firms strengthened in March,
with the index for revenues jumping to 21 from February’s 7. In
addition, a greater percentage of services providers were hiring,
bringing that index to 12 from its reading of 9 a month earlier.
Average wages also grew solidly in March, building the index up
by 10 points to 11. Survey respondents at services firms were
confident about business during the next six months -- the index
for expectations rose fifteen points to 37 in March.  Prices  Service sector price growth accelerated in March, to an
annualized 0.92 percent pace, compared to February’s 0.55
percent rate. Retail merchants’ prices picked up at a 1.81
percent rate after rising at a 1.46 percent rate last month. At
services firms, the pace was 0.69 percent, following a 0.41
percent rate of growth a month earlier.  For the six months ahead, survey respondents looked for price
growth in the overall service sector to be 1.50 percent,
somewhat slower than their outlook for 1.56 percent a month ago.
Retailers anticipated 1.84 percent price growth, whereas a month
earlier, they looked for 1.78 percent. Non-retail services
providers expected price growth of 1.44 percent for the six
months ahead; last month, they predicted a 1.54 percent rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  