-- 
Richmond Fed Manufacturing Survey for March (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-03-22T14:03:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/richmond-fed-manufacturing-survey-for-march-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s manufacturing sector
activity survey for March.  Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region expanded
for the sixth straight month, according to the Richmond Fed’s
latest survey. Looking at the main components of activity,
shipments and new orders grew more slowly, while employment
growth held steady. Other indicators varied slightly but
suggested continued solid activity. District contacts reported
that backlogs grew at a slightly slower pace and that increases
in capacity utilization and delivery times eased somewhat, while
inventories grew at a somewhat higher rate.  Looking forward, manufacturers’ optimism remained in place in
March. Survey contacts at an increasing number of firms looked
for solid growth in shipments, new orders, backlog of orders,
capacity utilization, and  capital expenditures  in the next six
months.  Survey measures of current prices revealed that both prices of
raw materials and finished goods grew at a slightly slower pace
in March. Respondents indicated that during the next six months
they expected growth in raw materials prices to quicken, but
they expected little change in finished goods prices from what
they had anticipated last month.  Current Activity  In March, the seasonally adjusted composite index of
manufacturing activity -- our broadest measure of manufacturing
-- fell five points to 20 from February’s reading of 25. Among
the index’s components, shipments decreased six points to 23,
new orders dropped seven points to finish at 20, while the jobs
index held firm at 16.  Other indicators also suggested continued solid growth. The
index for capacity utilization edged down three points to 14 and
the backlogs of orders grew more slowly, losing four points to 8.
The delivery times index inched down four points to end at 16,
while our gauges for inventories were somewhat higher in March.
The finished goods inventory index inched up four points in
March to end at 14, and the raw materials inventories index
added one point to 9.  Employment  Hiring conditions continued to firm at Fifth District plants in
March. The manufacturing employment index held steady at 16,
while the average workweek measure moved down seven points to 10.
In contrast, wage growth edged up one point to 19.  Expectations  Respondents in the current survey were generally optimistic
about their business prospects over the next six months. The
index of expected shipments decreased seven points to end at 42
and the volume of new orders index eased three points to 45.
Backlogs dropped six points to end at 25 and the capacity
utilization index lost seven points to 34, while the vendor lead
time index edged up two points to 18. Readings for planned
capital expenditures increased, the index registered an eight-
point gain to 28.  District manufacturers’ intentions to expand hiring were
slightly less optimistic in March. The expected manufacturing
employment index fell ten points to 17, and the average workweek
indicator lost eight points to 12. In addition, the expected
wages index posted a six-point loss to 38.  Prices  District manufacturers reported that raw materials prices
increased at an average annual rate of 4.61 percent from
February’s reading of 4.72 percent. Finished goods prices rose
at a 3.01 percent pace from February’s reading of 3.38 percent
last month.  Looking forward, respondents expected that the prices they pay
will advance at a 4.31 percent pace -- up considerably from
February’s reading of 3.47 percent. Additionally, contacts
looked for finished goods prices to increase at a 2.40 percent
annual rate, little changed from last month’s expectation of
2.38 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  