-- 
RIM to Sell PlayBook Tablet April 19, Taking on Apple’s IPad

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-03-22T20:15:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/rim-to-sell-playbook-tablet-april-19-taking-on-apple-s-ipad.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  said its
BlackBerry PlayBook tablet computer will go on sale in the U.S.
on April 19 through retailers including Best Buy Co., as it
seeks to compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  A version with 16 gigabytes of memory will cost $499, a 32-
gigabyte model will retail for $599 and a version with 64
gigabytes will cost $699, RIM and Best Buy said today in a
statement. Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy said it will
start accepting orders today.  The announcement ends weeks of speculation about when
Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM would begin selling the PlayBook to
address the lead the iPad has created among business customers.
RIM has shown the PlayBook to a “significant” portion of
Fortune 100 companies and interest in the device is “very
high,” Jim Tobin, senior vice-president, software and business
services, said in an interview last week.  “RIM doesn’t have the cultlike following of Apple so I
doubt there will be lines outside the stores,” said Alkesh Shah, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York . “But
feedback has been positive from people who’ve seen it and I
think it’ll be a product that starts with slower sales than the
iPad 2 but may exceed expectations by year-end.”  Apple, which has sold more than 15 million iPads in the
past year, has said more than 65 percent of the Fortune 100
companies are testing or deploying the iPad, including  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  Apple sold about 500,000 of
the follow-up model, the iPad 2, over the March 11 weekend of
its debut, analysts estimated.  Screen Size  Shah, who has an “overweight” rating on RIM, predicts the
company will sell 250,000 PlayBooks in its fiscal first quarter
which began Feb. 27, and 5.4 million over the fiscal year.  The PlayBook has a 7-inch (18-centimeter) screen, which RIM
executives say makes it more portable than the iPad. The iPad’s
screen measures 9.7 inches giving consumers a bigger surface to
browse the Web or read books on. Apple Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs  said late last year that smaller tablets are “dead
on arrival” because they are too small to compete with the
iPad.  RIM gained 24 cents to $62.41 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has climbed 29 percent
since the PlayBook was unveiled Sept. 27.  The prices for the three different PlayBook models, which
come with Wi-Fi connectivity, are exactly the same as for
comparable iPad models, making them “very competitive,” said
 Mike Abramsky , an analyst with RBC Capital Markets in Toronto.
He has a “top pick” rating on RIM.  The PlayBook will go on sale in more than 20,000 stores in
the U.S. and Canada operated by retailers  Staples Inc. (SPLS) ,
RadioShack Corp., Office Depot Inc. and carriers including  AT&T
Inc. (T) ,  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and  Verizon Wireless .  That distribution is more than double the availability of
the iPad 2, which is available in about 10,000 stores, Abramsky
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  