-- 
Romanian Leu Gains to Strongest in 10 Months on Fiscal Outlook

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-03-22T16:50:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/romanian-leu-advances-to-strongest-in-10-months-versus-euro.html
The leu gained for a fourth day
versus the euro, extending the world’s biggest currency rally
this year on speculation  Romania ’s fiscal-austerity program will
stay on track.  The leu advanced as much as 0.8 percent to 4.1250 per euro,
its strongest intraday level since May 3, and traded 0.7 percent
firmer as of 6:05 p.m. in Bucharest. It has been the world’s
best-performing currency this year, gaining 3.7 percent against
the euro and 10 percent versus the dollar in the period.  Prime Minister Emil Boc defeated a no-confidence motion in
parliament last week and passed labor-law changes required by
the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union under the
country’s 20 billion-euro ($28 billion) bailout program.  The IMF agreement has been “helping Romania to contain its
public deficit and at the same time start the structural reform
of the public sector,” UniCredit SpA analysts led by Gillian Edgeworth in  London  wrote in a report today. “We continue to
like the leu and are looking for a move to 4.10.”  Romania plans to sell stakes in state-run companies to
boost revenue after the government pledged to narrow its  budget
deficit  to 3 percent of gross domestic product next year from
6.5 percent last year. The EU’s second-poorest member last year
cut public wages and raised the value-added tax.  The Balkan nation will obtain a new 5 billion-euro loan
program from the lenders in April to provide safety during
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, President Traian Basescu said
last month. The country doesn’t expect to draw money from the
two-year agreement, which will reassure investors that
disciplined fiscal policies will remain in place, Basescu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  