-- 
Ryanair State-Aid Cases on EU Antitrust Radar, Almunia Says

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-03-22T18:34:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/ryanair-state-aid-cases-on-eu-antitrust-radar-almunia-says-1-.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and other
budget carriers face European Union decisions over allegations
they benefitted from government aid to use regional airports,
the EU’s antitrust chief said.  Joaquin Almunia , the region’s competition commissioner,
told the European Parliament today that “it is high time” he
dealt with “a large number of complaints against the aid
granted to low-cost airlines.”  The European Commission is probing government subsidies for
Frankfurt-Hahn and Luebeck-Blankensee airports in  Germany ,
Aarhus in Denmark, Tampere-Pirkkala in Finland, Alghero in  Italy 
and Pau in  France  that may have benefited Ryanair Holdings. It’s
also probing German loans involved in building airports in
Munich -- used by  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  -- Berlin and Dortmund
and Italian aid to airport ground-handling company SEA SpA.  The Brussels-based commission must approve large state
subsidies to airports and airlines and can order companies to
pay back government funding if it can’t be justified for
providing a public service. Almunia didn’t say whether that’s
the likely outcome.  Almunia also said he’d look at budget airlines’ complaints
against former state-owned carriers. Ryanair has sued regulators
for not investigating its complaints over aid to  Air France-KLM (AF) 
Group, Lufthansa,  Greece ’s Olympic Airlines SA, and Alitalia SpA
subsidiary Volare.  Clearer Guidelines  The EU competition chief said he planned clearer guidelines
next year on what subsidies governments can give to airports and
possibly also marine ports.  Such rules would specify “what part of an airport would be
regarded as infrastructure” that could be funded by the state
without breaking the rules, Almunia said.  Stephen McNamara, a spokesman for Ryanair in Dublin, said
the airline welcomed the EU’s review of its “flawed 2005 state
aid guidelines.”  The commission will tomorrow seek views on possible changes
to state aid rules for public services such as public
transportation and post deliveries. The new measures are
scheduled to take effect in November.  The proposal will suggest that state aid should only be
allowed when the money is spent efficiently, Almunia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 