-- 
Sex, Exercise Safer for the Heart by Doing It More Often, Researchers Say

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-03-22T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/safer-sex-or-exercise-may-mean-doing-it-more-research-finds.html
An episode of sex may double a
person’s chances of having a heart attack immediately or within
two hours, Tufts University researchers reported.  A session of physical exercise may be even more hazardous,
tripling the odds of a heart attack within two hours, the
scientists said today in the Journal of the  American Medical
Association  after analyzing the results of 14 studies. The risks
were smaller for people “with high levels of habitual physical
activity,” according to the report.  Sex or exercise increases heart rate and  blood pressure ,
which could contribute to a heart attack or death, said Issa
Dahabreh, the lead study author and a research associate at
Tufts Medical Center’s  Institute for Clinical Research & Health
Policy Studies , in  Boston . For people who survive the short-term
risks, there are long-term benefits from sex and exercising in
reducing  heart disease , according to the report.  “The real clinical take-home message is that those
individuals who are not regularly exercising, if they would like
to start initiating a physical activity program, should do so
gradually because in our data they appear to be the ones most
susceptible to this triggering effect,” said Jessica Paulus,
the report’s co-author and an assistant professor at the
university’s School of Medicine, in a telephone interview today.  For their study, Dahabreh and Paulus analyzed 10 trials
that looked at occasional exercise, three that investigated
occasional sexual activity and one study that looked at both.  Risk Measured  For every 10,000 people who engage in  physical activity  for
an additional hour a week, only 1 or 2 will have additional
heart attacks or die during the course of a year, the
researchers said.  Patients who were more active physically were less
susceptible to heart attacks and death, according to the report.
The risk of having a heart attack fell 45 percent for every
additional time each week that a person regularly exercised,
Dahabreh said.  The report didn’t yield a finding on whether the frequency
of sex alone affects the amount of cardiac risk.  “If you’re not active and you try to be active you could
be in trouble, whether you climb two flights of stairs or have
sex,” said  Stephen Green , associate chairman of the Department
of Cardiology at  North Shore University Hospital  in Manhasset,
 New York , in a telephone interview today. “If you want to do
more, you need to do it often.”  Green, who wasn’t an author on today’s paper, said people
who want to become physically active should mimic spring
training in baseball, starting slowly. Once someone gets to the
desired level of fitness, he or she needs continue the activity
often.  “If you don’t use it, you lose it,” Green said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  