-- 
Failure of Sanofi, Merck Animal-Health Merger May Trigger Industry Deals

-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 
2011-03-23T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/sanofi-merck-animal-health-failure-may-spur-deals-analysts-say.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN)  and Merck & Co.’s
decision to drop a planned joint venture in veterinary products
may spur deals in the industry, including sales of the animal-
health units owned by  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN) , analysts said.  Sanofi and Merck may seek acquisitions such as the Novartis
and Bayer units, said Alistair Campbell, an analyst at Berenberg
Bank in  London . In the U.S.,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, is reviewing the future of its veterinary unit.  Novartis and Bayer were among potential bidders for the
assets that Sanofi and Merck planned to sell to satisfy
antitrust requirements for the joint venture, two people with
knowledge of the matter said in October. Now that those sales
won’t happen, Novartis and Bayer may decide to sell their
veterinary units because they’re not big enough, analysts said.  “Novartis, which does not have critical mass, will have to
decide what to do with its division -- either strengthen it or
divest it -- and Pfizer seems ready to sell its own in order to
focus on human health,” Jean-Jacques Le Fur, an analyst at Oddo
& Cie. in Paris, wrote yesterday in a report. “In any case, we
think a number of transactions will be announced in the next few
months.” He has a “neutral” rating on Sanofi shares.  Merck and Sanofi abandoned plans to combine their animal-
health businesses “because of the increasing complexity of
implementing the proposed transaction,” the companies said
yesterday in a joint statement. They cited “the nature and
extent of the anticipated divestitures and the length of time
necessary for the worldwide regulatory review process.”  Asset Sale  The companies had hired Morgan Stanley to help sell assets
valued at $1 billion to get antitrust approval for the deal, the
people with knowledge of the matter said in October.  The merger of Merck’s Intervet unit and Sanofi’s Merial
operation would have created a company with $5.5 billion of
annual sales, making it the largest  animal-health  company. Both
companies said they’re committed to operating the businesses
separately.  Sanofi might seek another partner, said Philippe Lanone, an
analyst at Natixis in Paris who noted that Bayer and Novartis
“operate on a regional scale.” Jean-Marc Podvin, a spokesman
for Sanofi, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Sanofi Chief Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher sought to
expand in veterinary products in part because the business
wasn’t as vulnerable as  prescription drugs  to competition from
generic products. Growing demand for food also helped lift sales
of products for farm animals, and rising incomes were leading to
increased pet ownership, he said on a Feb. 9 conference call.  ‘Pleased’ With Animal Unit  “We are pleased with the animal-health business and what
it brings to the table,” Steven Campanini, a spokesman for
Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “What happens now is both companies go
back to where they were.”  The animal-health market is likely to experience mid-
single digit growth rates for the next five years, he said.
“The combination of the expected growth rate of animal health
in the next five years combined with the somewhat smoother
transition with the loss of exclusivity makes animal health a
very desirable segment,” said Campanini. Merck probably will
keep the animal-health business, said Jon LeCroy, an analyst
with Hapoalim Securities in  New York , in a telephone interview.  Sanofi fell 34 cents to 47.65 euros yesterday in Paris
trading. Merck gained 14 cents to $32.53 on the New York Stock
Exchange.  Pfizer Strategic Review  Pfizer is conducting a strategic review of each of its
units, said Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for the New York-based
company. No decision has been made about the future of the
animal-health business, she said. Pfizer had $3.58 billion of
veterinary sales last year.  Combining Pfizer’s and Merck’s animal-health units might
raise regulatory issues, said LeCroy. “It would bring up the
overlap thing,” he said.  Novartis and Bayer may look for other veterinary assets to
buy, Tero Weckroth, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, wrote
in a report.  While Novartis doesn’t need to sell the animal-health unit
or expand it, the company would consider acquisitions, said
Chief Executive Officer Joe Jimenez on a Nov. 17 conference
call. “Obviously we would like to gain scale in animal health
and if that opportunity arose” the company would consider
acquisitions of $1 billion to $2 billion, he said.  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for Basel, Switzerland-based
Novartis, didn’t respond to a call seeking comment. Novartis
doesn’t break out the sales of its animal-health unit.  Bayer Animal Health  Bayer Chief Executive Officer Marijn Dekkers said Sept. 27
that the company needed to decide the future of its animal-
health unit in 12 to 18 months. The unit is now “relatively
small” compared with competitors, he said at a dinner with
journalists in Cologne. Bayer had veterinary sales of 1.2
billion euros ($1.7 billion) last year.  Bayer can “clearly afford” deals bigger than 1 billion
euros, Dekkers said. The company bid unsuccessfully for the
Intervet unit in 2009, according to people familiar with the
situation.  Christian Hartel, a spokesman for Bayer, said yesterday the
company doesn’t comment on market speculation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  