-- 
Sanofi’s $7 Billion Debt Sale Leads Busiest Issuance Since 2009

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-03-22T21:42:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/sanofi-to-sell-bonds-in-dollars-to-help-finance-genzyme-purchase.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) , the French
drugmaker that is purchasing  Genzyme Corp. (GENZ) , sold $7 billion of
bonds to fund the acquisition in the biggest debt offering in
more than a year and contributing to the busiest day for new
issues in 18 months.  The company issued 1-, 2- and 3-year floating-rate notes
and 3-, 5- and 10-year fixed-rate debt in dollars, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Any remaining proceeds may be used
for general corporate purposes, the Paris-based company said
today in a regulatory filing.  Sanofi agreed to buy the U.S. biotechnology company for at
least $20.1 billion in February after a nine-month pursuit,
giving  France ’s biggest drugmaker treatments for rare diseases.
The company, which previously had no U.S. dollar debt
outstanding, marketed the biggest bond sale since  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. sold $8 billion of debt on
Feb. 4, 2010. Relative yields on investment-grade securities are
at about the lowest since October 2007.  “It’ll be the first time investors get to look at it to
invest in the debt side,” said Lon Erickson, a money manager at
Thornburg Investment Management Inc. in Santa Fe,  New Mexico , in
an interview before the sale. “That usually means people want
the paper.”  $22.2 Billion of Sales  At least $22.2 billion of debt has been priced today, which
would make it the busiest day since sales reached $22.6 billion
on Sept. 15, 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales are rebounding from a lull last week amid rising oil
prices and the crisis in  Japan .  Acquiring Genzyme, the world’s largest maker of medicines
for rare genetic disorders, will help Sanofi Chief Executive
Officer Chris Viehbacher offset revenue losses as some of his
company’s biggest-selling products face competition from generic
versions. Sanofi gains treatments for Fabry, Gaucher and Pompe
diseases.  A $1 billion portion of 1-year notes pays 5 basis points
above the 3-month London interbank offered rate, while $1
billion of 2-year debt yields 20 basis points more than the
lending benchmark and $750 million of 3-year floaters pay a 31
basis-point premium, Bloomberg data show. A $750 million slice
of 3-year fixed-rate debt pays 55 basis points more than
similar-maturity  U.S. Treasuries , $1.5 billion of 5-year debt
yields 70 basis points more than benchmarks and $2 billion of
10-year debt pays an 80 basis-point spread.  Genzyme Terms  Genzyme’s stockholders will get $74 a share in cash, Sanofi
said in a Feb. 16  statement . They also will receive so-called
contingent value rights that entitle them to payments of as much
as $14 a share depending on the performance of Genzyme’s
experimental multiple-sclerosis drug Lemtrada and production
levels of two other products, the company said. The deal is
expected to close in the second quarter.  “Big mergers don’t always work out well so investors
should be skeptical, though I don’t know if the market is always
looking at it that way,” said Erickson, who helps oversee $9
billion of fixed-income assets. “Sometimes people have money to
put to work and they want a big liquid deal and something that’s
rated well to throw their money at, and that could very well be
the case today.”  Three-month Libor, a lending benchmark for banks, was set
at 0.309 percent today.  Sanofi Ratings  The notes are expected to be rated A2 by Moody’s Investors
Service and AA-by Standard & Poor’s, Bloomberg data show.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch, BNP Paribas SA, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Societe Generale SA arranged the debt
transactions, according to today’s regulatory filing.  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
corporate debt instead of Treasuries fell to 154 basis points
yesterday from 166 basis points at the end of 2010, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The measure tumbled to
148 basis points on Feb. 17, the least since October 2007. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Berkshire Hathaway sold debt last year to finance part of
its purchase of railroad Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  Corp.
Kraft Foods Inc., the maker of Oreos and Cheez Whiz, raised $9.5
billion the same day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  