-- 
Sarkozy Libya Plan Got Push From ‘American Vertigo’ Author Levy

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-03-22T14:38:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/sarkozy-libya-plan-got-push-from-american-vertigo-author-levy.html
French author Bernard-Henri Levy
was present at the creation of President Nicolas Sarkozy’s
decision to intervene in the Libyan civil war.  With Foreign Minister Alain Juppe in Brussels, Levy, 62,
attended Sarkozy’s March 10 meeting at the Elysee Palace with
leaders of the Libyan opposition. Having arranged the encounter,
Levy urged Sarkozy to become the first to recognize them as the
government of  Libya  -- which he did.  It was Levy who confirmed a  Le Monde report  that day that
Sarkozy was pushing for air strikes against  Muammar Qaddafi .
Juppe’s meeting in Brussels with his European Union counterparts
failed to yield consensus on recognizing the Benghazi-based
opposition and on military attacks. The  United Nations  voted a
week later to authorize a no-fly zone.  “It’s too serious an issue to have someone like Bernard-
Henri Levy tell France what to do in Libya,” said Stephane Rozes, who founded the Paris-based Cap Institute, a political-
advisory firm. “His public posture is not good for France or
its diplomacy.”  Sarkozy’s office declined to comment on Levy’s role in
policy making.  France ’s desire to play a leading role in the Libyan
campaign has become embroiled in a dispute among coalition
countries this week as French officials resist calls by the U.K.
and  Italy  for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to take
over. Norway suspended its participation unless leadership is
clarified.  Levy’s involvement began on a trip to rebel-held parts of
Libya, which he recounted in the March 5  Journal du Dimanche .  ‘Good People’  He  says  he called Sarkozy on March 4 after his meeting in
Benghazi with Libya’s opposition Transition Council leaders,
according to an interview in Le Parisien. He told the president
the rebel leaders were  ”good people,”   On March 15, as Group of Eight foreign ministers met in
Paris, Levy also organized a meeting of the Libyan opposition
council with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , he told
Europe 1 radio.  Levy -- known in the French media by his initials “BHL” -
- wrote in his online magazine La Regle du Jeu that his role in
arranging the  Elysee meeting  was “modest” and that Sarkozy
“is not a man who lets himself being influenced by anyone.”  Levy’s link to Sarkozy has also a personal side.  His daughter, Justine Levy, published a 2004 roman a clef,
“Nothing Serious,” depicting how her then-husband, philosopher
Raphael Enthoven, left her for the model and singer Carla Bruni.
Bruni and Enthoven had a son in 2001. In 2008, Bruni married
Sarkozy.  War Reporting  Levy the elder’s activities include journalism, philosophy
and filmmaking. He has reported from war zones including Bosnia,
 Burundi ,  Rwanda  and  Sri Lanka . In 2006, he wrote about the U.S.
in a book entitled “American Vertigo: Traveling America in the
Footsteps of Tocqueville.” His 2003 book, “Who Killed Daniel Pearl?,” was made into a film starring  Angelina Jolie .  In contrast to many in France, including former President
 Jacques Chirac , who opposed  the U.S.-led war in Iraq  in 2002,
Levy did not rally against it. In a 2008 interview with
Bloomberg Television, he said the war was “morally right,
politically wrong.”  In his recent diplomatic foray, he says he and Sarkozy were
on the same page.  “I felt very early on that the French President was ready
to end Qaddafi’s bloodshed,” he told Europe 1 radio on March
20. “ I felt he was going to go all the way .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 