-- 
Saudi Arabia Will Hold Its Second Municipal Elections in April

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-22T21:43:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/saudi-arabia-will-hold-its-second-municipal-elections-in-april.html
Saudi Arabia , the Arab world’s
largest economy, will hold municipal elections next month in a
bid to deter the political unrest that’s hitting other countries
in the region.  The elections in the country with one-fifth of the world’s
proven oil reserves will start on April 23, the official  Saudi
Press Agency  reported, citing Abdul-Rahman al-Dahmash, the
director of the kingdom’s electoral commission.  More than two months of protests have shaken the Middle
East and North Africa as citizens demand civil rights, higher
 living standards  and the ouster of autocratic regimes. In
Bahrain, a Saudi neighbor, security forces quelled mainly Shiite
demonstrators calling for democracy after Saudi-led troops from
the Gulf Cooperation Council entered the country on March 14.  The municipal election announcement comes after Saudi  King Abdullah  on March 18 ordered an increase in spending, including
$67 billion on housing and funds for the military and religious
groups that back the ban on domestic protests. A call for a
March 11 demonstration in the kingdom failed to materialize
after the government deployed troops and senior clerics
denounced protests as un-Islamic.  Although Saudi Arabia held its first municipal elections in
February 2005, the second election was delayed in May 2009 until
yesterday’s announcement. The 150-member Majlis al-Shoura
council, the country’s assembly, is appointed by the king and
plays only an advisory role.  Saudi Arabia is the least democratic country in the Middle
East and ranks 160th out of 167 countries worldwide, according
to the  Democracy Index for 2010  published by the Economist
Intelligence Unit. All political parties and organizations are
banned in Saudi Arabia.  With assistance by Nadeem Hamid in  Washington . Editors: Andrew
J. Barden, Robin Meszoly  To contact the reporters responsible for the story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 