-- 
Saudi Aramco Adjusts Japan Crude Deliveries on Demand, CEO Says

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-03-22T13:29:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/saudi-aramco-adjusts-japan-crude-deliveries-on-demand-ceo-says.html
Saudi Aramco , the world’s largest
exporter of crude oil, is adjusting deliveries to  Japan  to meet
customers’ needs as the country struggles to recover from an
earthquake and tsunami.  Saudi Arabia’s state-run oil company has changed the
delivery programs of some cargoes that are already on the
water, Aramco Chief Executive Officer Khalid al-Falih said in
 Tokyo  today. Aramco is Japan’s largest oil supplier.  “Japan will have a priority in the months to come as it
deals with this disaster and tries to recover,” al-Falih said
in an interview. “People who want less crude, we will get them
less crude. People who want a higher amount of crude oil, we
will get a higher amount of crude. Customers who want different
kinds of crude, we will give them different grades.”  Japan, the world’s third-biggest consumer of oil, imports
about 87 percent of its crude from the Middle East, according to
the nation’s trade ministry. The 9.0-magnitude earthquake that
struck on March 11 halted production at six refineries
comprising about 29 percent of the country’s processing
capacity, Bloomberg calculations based on Petroleum Association
of Japan data show.  About 1.3 million barrels of its daily refining capacity
was shut or disrupted following the earthquake, Petroleum
Association data show. Japan consumed 4.42 million barrels a day
of crude last year, making it the third-largest user after the
U.S. and  China , according to the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency .  Al-Falih said Aramco would offer a $20 million donation to
help Japanese recovery efforts. The donation will most likely be
in the form of fuels, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 