-- 
HSBC Said to Seek Backing for $22 Million Package for New Chief Gulliver

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 
2011-03-23T12:00:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/hsbc-said-to-seek-backing-for-13-3-million-pound-ceo-pay-package.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  is seeking
backing from investors to pay Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  as much as 13.3 million pounds ($22 million) this year,
two people with knowledge of the talks said.  The award, including a base salary of 1.25 million pounds,
would be slightly less than the 13.5 million-pound package that
his predecessor  Michael Geoghegan  received for 2010, which
included a 1.08 million-pound salary. The bank’s compensation
committee, which meets with investors this week, also is
proposing to tie Gulliver’s long-term incentive plan to measures
like strategy execution and reputation as well as return on
equity and capital strength, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the terms aren’t public.  “The principles underpinning the review include
incentivizing long-term sustainable performance linked to risk
and continued improvement of alignment with shareholders,” HSBC
spokesman Robert Bailhache said. “Any new scheme will be
subject to shareholder approval” at the annual meeting in May.  The British government is pushing banks to curb pay after
it was forced to bail out the industry during the credit crisis
and as it enacts the deepest-ever reductions in public spending.
HSBC, which didn’t receive a direct bailout, said this month it
would prefer to keep its headquarters in  London  after the Sunday
Telegraph said the lender may move back to  Hong Kong  because of
the U.K.’s growing tax and regulatory burdens.  John Thornton   Gulliver, 52, was traveling and unavailable to comment,
according to his office in London.  The compensation panel, overseen by former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  President John Thornton, is seeking permission to
grant Gulliver a bonus of as much as three times the base salary
and a long-term incentive payment equal to six times his salary,
the people said. That’s a reduction from Geoghegan’s pay plan,
which granted a bonus that was four times base salary and a
long-time incentive payment equal to seven times salary.  Unlike the new plan, Geoghegan’s long-term incentive
payment was tied only to financial measures such as earnings-
per-share growth and total shareholder return, the people said.  Awards under the new long-term incentive payment would vest
after five years and be subject to so-called malus provisions
during those five years under which HSBC could withhold them,
the people said. Gulliver would have to keep the awards until he
retires from the financial services industry, they said. Under
the old plan, average annual vesting was 27 percent of face
value.  ‘Right Direction’  The plan is a step “in the right direction,” said Stilpon
Nestor, managing director of corporate governance advisers
Nestor Advisors Ltd. in London. “There’s a much tighter cap on
the overall pay package in terms of maximum opportunity on the
performance-based side. The downside is whether you will be able
to attract people with these terms when times get better.”  The change is likely to meet opposition from some HSBC
investors, the person said. Some shareholders have indicated
they may object to the bank’s proposals to base bonus payments
on past performance, said an investor with knowledge of the
situation. At present, bonuses reward performance against set
criteria in future years, said the investor, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  investors will vote next month on a new share-
incentive plan for directors. The proposed criteria include
pretax profit, customer satisfaction and the bank’s
relationships with regulators. Directors wouldn’t receive their
shares from the plan for at least three years.  Pension Plan  HSBC also will make a contribution to Gulliver’s pension of
about 625,000 pounds, or half his base salary, the same as his
predecessor. Excluding the pension, Gulliver’s pay package is
valued at as much as 12.7 million pounds, less than Geoghegan’s
12.9 million-pound plan, one of the people said.  Gulliver’s 2011 base pay is less than Barclays CEO  Robert Diamond ’s 1.35 million-pound salary, and about equal to Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc CEO  Stephen Hester ’s 1.22 million-
pound base pay, company filings show. Hester, who didn’t receive
a cash bonus for 2010, also will get about 6.5 million pounds in
shares vesting between 2012 and 2014, the Edinburgh-based lender
said this month.  Gulliver received a 2.9 million-pound bonus for 2010, less
than the 6.5 million-pound bonus Barclays gave Diamond for the
same year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  