-- 
Scary Bear, Unlikely Lovers Add Mystery to ‘Kin’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-03-22T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/scary-bear-unlikely-lovers-add-mystery-to-kin-jeremy-gerard.html
When the neurotic, possibly crazy
woman began communing with the slightly edgy bear, ‘Kin’
irrevocably won me over.  As Shakespeare showed in “The Winter’s Tale,” there’s
nothing quite like a bear to spice up a romance.  In Bathsheba Doran’s terrific new play, having its premiere
at  New York ’s  Playwrights Horizons , that mysterious bear has
nothing to do with the plot. And Helena, the woman in the scene,
isn’t even the heroine, who’s nowhere to be seen.  One of the charms of “Kin” is the way in which a dozen
disparate events involving as many characters, eventually fall
in place to make a compelling love story.  At the center are Anna, an Ivy League academic, and Sean,
an Irish-born personal trainer. The play begins with Anna’s
brutal dumping by her Columbia University mentor. Her problems
pale beside Helena’s. Her dog has just died and her acting
career is a non-starter. A paragon of self-involvement, she’s a
lousy best friend -- the kind you can’t shake off.  Sean has long telephone conversations with his loving
mother, whose childhood trauma has left her a recluse on the
mist-enshrouded Irish coast, cared for by her brother.  As Anna and Sean very tentatively carve out a future for
themselves, we will also meet her father, a colonel with
security clearance; his lover, a woman dying of cancer; and
Sean’s ex-girlfriend.  Fabulous Bear  They play key roles in assuring the sweet ending that a
romance demands.  The director, Sam Gold, proves his mettle with a fluid
production that slowly (too slowly in Act I) yet deliberately
comes into focus. As Sean and Anna, Patch Darragh and Kristen
Bush are endearingly intense. The show benefits from superb
performances by Laura Heisler (Helena), Cotter Smith (the
colonel), Kit Flanagan (his lover) and especially Suzanne
Bertish and Bill Buell as Sean’s down-to-earth mom and uncle.  I do wish I knew who played that excellent bear.  Through April 3 at Playwrights Horizons, 416 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-212-279-4200;  http://www.playwrightshorizons.org 
Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 