-- 
Scene Last Night: Rockefeller, Kissinger, Naeem Khan, Lulu Wang

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-22T15:32:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/scene-last-night-charles-rockefeller-kissinger-naeem-khan-lulu-wang.html
“Why am I the most boringly
dressed here?” Charles Rockefeller said as a stream of Nehru
collars, saris and kimonos passed him at the  Asia Society ’s
“Celebration of Asia Week” party last night.  The red-haired grandson of Asia Society founder  John D. Rockefeller  was wearing a navy suit with a spring-green tie: a
look befitting his latest occupation as University of
Pennsylvania graduate student.  Also sticking to business attire in the Manhattan church-
turned-party-space known as 583 Park were Jack Wadsworth,
advisory director of  Morgan Stanley (MS) , and  Henry Kissinger , a
former U.S. secretary of state who has a book coming out in May
titled “On  China .” Among the women, Lulu Wang wore a simple
black dress, accented with a red pin by Oscar de la Renta.  As for those who dressed to thrill: benefit co-chairman
Stephanie Foster wore red; her husband, John H. Foster, the
chairman and chief executive of Foster Management Co., wore a
black jacket with Nehru collar; Ranjana Khan, wife of fashion
designer Naeem Khan, exposed some of her midriff in a turquoise
sari-like gown. And jewelry designer Rosena Sammi wore a 22-
carat gold necklace inspired by the motifs of Mughal palaces.  The theme of the evening found expression in many ways
other than dress. The chef of the Manhattan restaurant Tulsi,
Hemant Mathur, devised an Indian menu that included chicken with
mint sauce and green beans with shredded coconut. His wife,
pastry chef Surbhi Sanhi, offered chai panna cotta for dessert.  On the stage, Stephanie Foster read aloud a list of donors
to the event. When she got to  Stephen Schwarzman , the chairman
and CEO of the  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , she noted, “I’m reading
alphabetically.”  Crisis in Japan  “I’ve had so many special experiences performing across
Asia,” said Renee Fleming from the stage, to which she was
called as an honorary chairman of the event, a title she shared
with Naeem Khan. “I hope to see you some place abroad soon.”  With the crisis in Japan, the evening had some somber
tones. One guest said she was eager to attend the spinning class
that Soul Cycle was organizing to benefit relief efforts.  “It is hard right now,” said the president of the Asia
Society, Vishakha N. Desai, in an interview. “At the same time
we have to give positive energy. Tonight we are celebrating the
culture and traditions of  Asia . These are the things that give
us hope.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or
amandagordon on  http://twitter.com/amandagordon .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 