-- 
Senator Calls Ex-SEC General Counsel’s Madoff Work ‘Troubling’

-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-03-22T22:40:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/senator-calls-ex-sec-general-counsel-s-madoff-work-troubling-.html
Senator  Charles Grassley  said he
was troubled that the former top lawyer at the Securities and
Exchange Commission was allowed to work on policy related to the
Bernard Madoff fraud after inheriting profits from the  Ponzi
scheme .  The Iowa Republican, who today released a letter he
received from the SEC official, David Becker, said the agency
should revise its ethics guidelines to prevent such “obvious”
conflicts in the future.  Grassley and Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican, wrote to Becker March 4 asking him to explain his
actions at the agency. In his response, Becker reiterated his
previous comments on the matter, saying he followed all
appropriate ethics rules.  “At the very least, the SEC showed an extreme
insensitivity to the Madoff victims,” Grassley said in a
statement. “Mr. Becker seemed to hold himself only to the
minimal standard of what he believed was technically legal,
rather than what was best for the Madoff victims and the
integrity of the SEC.”  Becker left his SEC post last month. He and his brothers,
who inherited about $2 million from their late parents’
investment with the now imprisoned financier, are being sued by
a court-appointed trustee in the Madoff bankruptcy case. The
trustee is seeking the return of what he termed $1.5 million in
fictitious profits.  Testifying before Congress on March 10, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said that in retrospect she wishes Becker had declined
to work on Madoff policy.  In his response to Grassley, Becker said he is “confident
that any fair review of my actions” will show that his work was
in the best interests of investors and the SEC.  “I believe I did precisely what I was supposed to do: I
spotted an issue, raised it with the ethics office and followed
the advice I was given,” Becker wrote.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Schmidt in  Washington  at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  