-- 
Senate Democrats Say CFTC Budget Cut Could Increase Oil Prices

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-03-22T15:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/senate-democrats-say-cftc-budget-cut-could-increase-oil-prices.html
Congressional Republicans’ plan to
cut  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  funding to 2008 levels
would allow for manipulation of energy markets and could lead to
higher U.S.  oil prices , Senate Democrats said in a letter.  “At a time where gas prices are rising and squeezing
American families, we have a responsibility to provide our
watchdogs the resources they need to fulfill their important
oversight and regulatory responsibilities,” the lawmakers wrote
in a letter scheduled to be sent today to Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell  and House Speaker  John Boehner .  The proposed cuts would undermine the CFTC, which protects
American consumers by “cracking down on manipulation and other
market abuses,” according to the letter signed by more than 40
of the Senate’s 51 Democrats.  The $169 million budget for the CFTC, which has authority
under the Dodd-Frank Act to write derivatives regulations, has
been caught in a stalemate between Republicans aiming to cut
spending and Democrats looking to pay for the new rules.  Republicans, who took control of the House and narrowed the
Democrats’ Senate majority in November elections, proposed
cutting the CFTC’s budget by $56.8 million for the current
fiscal year. The agency’s budget would increase to $308 million
under President Obama’s fiscal 2012 proposal presented Feb. 14.  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  has said the budget for this
year is “far less” than what is needed to fulfill the agency’s
responsibilities under Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul
enacted in July. A funding reduction would lead the CFTC to cut
its staff, Gensler told senators on March 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  