-- 
BOE's Sentance Says World Economy to Withstand Japan Quake, Mideast Unrest

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-03-22T14:37:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/sentance-says-world-economy-to-withstand-japan-mid-east-effects.html
Bank of England  policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said the world economy will withstand the shock from
the earthquake in  Japan  and political unrest in the Middle East,
and predicted that inflation pressures will persist.  “I would expect these developments to have only short-term
effects on global growth,” Sentance said in a speech today in
Suffolk,  England . “  Asia  and other emerging markets are likely
to continue to provide strong momentum to global growth, and the
gradual recovery which is emerging in the U.S. and continental
 Europe  should continue to gather momentum.”  Sentance said the global climate has become “more
inflationary,” adding to the case for U.K. policy makers to
raise the benchmark interest rate to keep faster price gains
from feeding wage demands and creating a wage-price spiral. Data
today showed inflation accelerated to 4.4 percent in February,
the fastest since October 2008, and Sentance said it may exceed
5 percent this year.  With inflation “set to rise further, failure to take
timely monetary policy action risks a more abrupt and
destabilising rise in  interest rates  in the future,” he said.
“There are upside risks to both inflation and consumption
growth from a stronger rebound in wage growth as the recovery
proceeds.”  The pound rose 0.4 percent today, and traded at $1.6374 as
of 2:47 p.m. in London.  ‘Uncertain’  Sentance voted in February to raise the key interest rate a
half point from a record low of 0.5 percent. His colleagues
 Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale  favored for a quarter-point
increase. The remaining six members of the Monetary Policy
Committee voted for no change. The bank will publish the minutes
of this month’s decision tomorrow.  Manufacturing and unemployment data suggest the U.K.’s
economic recovery survived the contraction in the fourth quarter
and will continue, though the pace of expansion could prove
“uncertain,” Sentance said.  An index of factory orders rose in March to the highest in
three years, while price pressures intensified, the
 Confederation of British Industry  said today. Claims for
unemployment benefits are at the lowest since February 2009.  Budget Impact  Sentance said growth in service industries won’t return to
pre-crisis levels as the economy rebalances toward
manufacturing. The government’s fiscal squeeze will also weigh
on expansion as inflation damps consumer spending, he said.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne will tomorrow
present his budget for the fiscal year through March 2012. He
has vowed to stick to plans to eliminate the bulk of the deficit
by April 2015. These include an increase in sales tax in
January, which have also fed inflation pressures along with a
weaker pound.  “With imported price pressures and VAT adding to inflation
in the short term, we should not be surprised to see a squeeze
on real incomes and relatively subdued  consumer spending  in the
first half of this year,” Sentance said. “But if wage
increases start to pick up more than current forecasts suggest
in response to persistently high headline inflation, we are
likely to see some combination of stronger consumption growth
and higher medium-term inflation.”  The policy maker, whose term ends in May, said U.K. policy
makers are facing decisions that are “much less straightforward
than they appeared to be before the financial crisis.”  “The global climate is now more inflationary,” he said.
“It seems unlikely that the margin of spare capacity in the
U.K. economy will prevent current inflationary pressures from
becoming embedded, without monetary policy being tightened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  