-- 
Shell Says Japan Nuclear Accident to Support Long-Term Global Gas Demand

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-03-22T07:13:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/shell-says-japan-nuclear-accident-to-support-global-gas-demand.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
largest oil company, said  Japan ’s nuclear accident will support
world natural gas demand in the longer term.  Shell plans to increase liquefied natural gas supplies to
Japan, the world’s largest buyer of LNG. The cost of building
nuclear power generators will rise because governments will
increase safety demands and compliance for the operators, said
De La Rey Venter, Shell’s Global Head of LNG.  “It will have a long-term impact on gas demand, simply
because it’s unlikely that all of these facilities will come
back on stream,” he said in an interview in Amsterdam
yesterday. “Japan had quite an aggressive plan for new-builds,
but that program will be challenged by public acceptance issues
and that program will be less comprehensive and will take longer
time than what was expected. Much of that structural change gap
will be filled by natural gas.”  Tokyo Electric Power Co. is battling to gain control of its
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant after the March 11 earthquake, Japan’s
strongest. The utility has started scheduled power outages to
conserve electricity to counter a shortfall in power supply.  “In places like the America, Europe this is going to have
a lasting effect on public opinion, which is going to drive the
extent” of nuclear power capacity construction, Graeme
Wildgoose, an LNG consultant at Poten & Partners, said in an
interview yesterday. “Politics is driven by public opinion and
nobody is going to sanction a nuclear project if all the
population against it.”  Japan will require an additional 10 billion cubic meters a
year of LNG imports in the medium-term, Philip Olivier,
president of  GDF Suez (GSZ)  LNG, forecast yesterday. Asia-Pacific LNG
demand growth will rise by one percentage point to about 6
percent a year following the accident, he said.  “That’s not an isolated incident. It will resonate
elsewhere,” Venter said. “It will add to the cost of safety
compliance in the nuclear industry. It strengthens the case for
gas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in Amsterdam at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  