-- 
Singapore Air, Jetstar Cut Tokyo Services as Nuclear Crisis Dents Travel

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-03-22T04:22:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/singapore-air-jetstar-cut-tokyo-services-as-nuclear-crisis-dents-travel.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and Jetstar,
the budget unit of  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , cut  Tokyo  services as a
nuclear crisis damps demand for flights to the Japanese capital.  Singapore Air, the world’s second-largest carrier by market
value, will suspend one of its two daily services to Tokyo’s
Haneda airport from March 27, it said on its website. Jetstar
will redirect half of its 14 weekly Tokyo-bound flights to  Osaka 
after a fall in demand, spokesman Simon Westaway said by phone.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , Korean Air Lines Co. and
Singapore Air have also ended temporary capacity increases on
Tokyo routes as demand cools. Carriers added seats out of the
Japanese capital last week as overseas governments advised
residents to avoid the city following an earthquake and an
accident at a Fukushima nuclear power plant.  “Singapore Air’s capacity cuts show that it is taking
concrete steps to match capacity to demand,” K. Ajith and
Eugene Ng, analysts at UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd., said in an e-
mailed note today. “We expect other airlines to follow suit.”  The Singapore Air cut represents about 13 percent of the
carrier’s  Japan  capacity, they said. The airline could
eventually pare other routes including Tokyo’s Narita airport,
Osaka, Nagoya and Fukuoka, they said.  Japan Air, ANA  Japan Airlines Corp., the nation’s flag carrier, has no
plans to cut flights and has increased services to Tohoku, the
region most affected by the earthquake, said Satoru Tanaka, a
spokesman. Tokyo-based All Nippon Airways Co. also expects to
maintain regular services, said Yoshifumi Miyake, a spokesman.  Japan accounts for 6.5 percent of global air traffic and 10
percent of sales, according to the  International Air Transport
Association .  Cathay Pacific, Hong Kong’s biggest carrier, flew the last
of its extra evacuation flights on March 20 and it is now
operating normally, spokeswoman Carolyn Leung said by e-mail.  Korean Air stopped adding extra flights yesterday, said Cho
Hyong Chul, a spokesman. Asiana Airlines Inc.,  South Korea ’s
second-largest carrier, also has no immediate plans for more
extra Tokyo flights, it said by e-mail. Both carriers will
maintain regular services, which total seven flights a day each.  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) , which serves both Haneda and
Narita, is seeing a decline in loads to about half-capacity on
flights to Japan, it said by e-mail yesterday.  China Airlines
Ltd. (2610) ,  Taiwan ’s biggest carrier, last week only filled about 30
percent of seats on flights to Tokyo, compared with as much as
90 percent in the opposite direction, an airline official, who
declined to be identified citing company policy, said yesterday.  Singapore Air Capacity  Singapore Air has returned to using its regular aircraft on
Narita services after replacing them with larger planes through
yesterday, spokesman  Nicholas Ionides  said by e-mail. Last week,
the carrier postponed plans to introduce Airbus SAS A380s on Los
Angeles flights via Narita airport. It will instead continue
using smaller planes.  Qantas’s mainline unit is maintaining its daily services to
Tokyo from Sydney and its three-times-a-week flights from Perth,
spokesman Luke Enright said by phone today.  The travel slowdown may cause a 50 percent drop in Japan
demand for Qantas and Jetstar, which could trigger a 30 percent
reduction in capacity, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts including
Scott Carroll said in a note today. The demand slump and the
extra costs of flying Qantas services via  Hong Kong  for crew
changes may cause a pretax earnings drop of about A$40 million
($40 million), they said.  About 70 percent of the Qantas group capacity between
Australia and Japan is operated by Jetstar, with 25 services per
week. The budget carrier usually serves both Tokyo and Osaka.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  