-- 
Sirius XM Radio Sued by Howard Stern’s Production Company

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-03-22T21:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/sirius-xm-radio-sued-by-howard-stern-s-production-company.html
Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  was sued by
radio personality Howard Stern’s production company and his
agent for failing to pay stock awards they claim were promised.  The suit was filed in  New York  state Supreme Court today by
One Twelve Inc. and Stern’s agent, Don Buchwald. Sirius, which
courted Stern when the company was running second to XM
Satellite Radio Inc., promised to pay a series of stock awards
if the radio company exceeded its subscriber estimates,
according to the complaint. Buchwald was promised a fee of 10
percent of One Twelve’s compensation, they said.  Stern’s show began on Sirius in 2006. Two years later, the
company merged with competitor XM and, in 2010, the total number
of Sirius XM Radio subscribers hit 20 million, according to the
complaint. Except for the first year of the Sirius contract, the
company has refused to pay One Twelve the stock awards,
according to the suit. The plaintiffs said in the complaint they
are seeking unspecified amounts due with interest.  “When Sirius needed Stern, it promised him a share in any
success that the company achieved,” according to the suit.
“But now that Sirius has conquered its chief competitor and
acquired more than 20 million subscribers, it has reneged on its
commitment to Stern, unilaterally deciding that it has paid him
enough.”  Patrick Reilly, a spokesman for New York-based Sirius XM
Radio, said in an e-mail that the company “just signed a
contract through 2015 with  Howard Stern , and he is a valued part
of our company. We were thus surprised and disappointed by the
subsequent legal action.”  Reilly added that “We have met all of our obligations
under the terms of our 2004 agreement with Howard, his agent and
production company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 