-- 
Slim Open to Investment in Mexican Broadcast Television Amid Disputes

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-03-22T21:24:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/slim-open-to-investment-in-mexican-broadcast-tv-elias-says-1-.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim  is
considering whether to enter the broadcast television business
in Mexico amid a series of public disputes with  Grupo Televisa
SA (TLEVICPO)  and TV Azteca SAB.  “We’ve always said that we’re not interested in broadcast
television. Today we’re not closed to that option,” said  Arturo Elias , a spokesman for Slim. For the past six years, Slim has
been “fighting” to offer pay television services, and that’s
still a priority, Elias told reporters today in Mexico City.  “After seeing what the broadcasters are doing, today,
broadcast television is a possibility,” he said.  Televisa, the largest Mexican broadcaster controlled by
billionaire Emilio Azcarraga, and  Ricardo Salinas ’ TV Azteca
have each exchanged antitrust complaints with Telefonos de
 Mexico  SAB, the fixed-line phone carrier controlled by Slim.
Both TV broadcasters and Telefonos accused each other of
“monopolistic practices” and high prices.  Azcarraga and Salinas are running TV ads on their networks
and pay TV services accusing Slim’s Telmex and America Movil SAB
of maintaining high prices. Televisa and TV Azteca want to
capture telecommunications market share from Slim’s companies,
which are Mexico’s largest Internet, wireless and fixed-line
providers.  Slim’s companies have stopped advertising on TV Azteca and
Televisa following disputes over prices and an attempt by TV
Azteca to link an advertising deal to lower interconnection
rates.  Elias said that Slim is not in talks to acquire broadcast
TV assets. The company will not move in that direction until the
federal government offers a new national network license, he
said.  -- With assistance from Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City and
Crayton Harrison in  New York . Editors: Niamh Ring, Donna
Alvarado  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 