-- 
Sony Suspends Some TV, Camera Production as Plant Closures Mount

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-03-22T03:45:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/sony-closes-5-plants-in-central-japan-from-today-till-march-31.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s largest
exporter of consumer electronics, halted factories that make
televisions and cameras, citing difficulties procuring
components and materials following the March 11 earthquake.  The company suspended operations at five plants in central
and southern Japan, including in the Aichi and Oita prefectures,
starting today until the end of this month, the Tokyo-based
electronics maker said in a statement. The factories make
liquid-crystal display TVs, camcorders, cameras, mobile phones,
headphones and broadcasting equipment, it said.  The move increases the number of Sony’s plant closures to
12 after the company halted operations at factories that make
products ranging from Blu-ray discs to semiconductor lasers
since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that hit  Japan . The
electronics maker said it may shift some production overseas if
shortages of parts and materials persist.  Atul Goyal, a senior analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets
in  Singapore , said last week Sony’s operating profit for the 12
months ending March 31 may be 230 billion yen, or about 7
percent lower than he earlier estimated. He cut his forecast for
the following year by 10 percent.  Sony’s four plants in Miyagi prefecture are still closed
due to damage caused since March 11, the company said March 20.
Two plants in Fukushima prefecture for rechargeable batteries
and a DVD plant in Ibaraki prefecture are also idled.  The company resumed partial operations at a battery factory
in Tochigi prefecture today, Sony’s third to restart operations
since the disaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  