-- 
Sony Shuts More Plants in Japan, Toyota Extends Halts as Recession Looms

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u ,   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 
2011-03-22T23:35:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/sony-shuts-more-plants-in-japan-toyota-extends-halts-as-recession-looms.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  shut five more plants
and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  extended production halts, 11 days after
an earthquake and tsunami brought scores of Japanese factories
to a standstill and threatened to spark a recession.  Sony, Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics,
suspended some work at five plants in the central and southern
regions until March 31 because of trouble getting supplies after
power outages, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement
yesterday. Toyota, the world’s biggest carmaker, said yesterday
all domestic car-assembly will be stopped until March 26, while
Honda Motor Co. also extended closures.  The moves come as Morgan Stanley estimated that damage to
the earthquake-stricken northeast, including disruptions to
power and distribution systems, may cause the world’s third-
largest economy to shrink in the second quarter at an annualized
rate of 6 percent to 12 percent. A recession is “almost
certain,” according to Mizuho Securities Co.  “Companies’ production and people’s consumption will be
stuck in an abnormal state at least for the next six months,”
said Naoki Iizuka, a senior economist at Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. in  Tokyo . “The electricity shortage will continue to
hamper economic activity.”  Sony, Canon  The magnitude-9 earthquake, Japan’s strongest on record,
and the ensuing tsunami killed at least 9,000 people and damaged
more than 100,000 buildings. Engineers continued a battle to
contain radiation leaks from the damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear power plant, 135 miles north of Tokyo.  The effect of parts shortages rippled through the supply
chain, halting work at factories outside the region struck by
the earthquake.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest camera maker,
closed a factory in Nagasaki, about 680 miles from Fukushima,
through tomorrow, also citing problems securing components.  Sony’s new closures increase its shuttered plants to 12
after the company halted operations at factories making products
including Blu-ray discs and semiconductor lasers. The plants
suspended yesterday make liquid-crystal display TVs, camcorders,
cameras, mobile phones, headphones and broadcasting equipment,
it said.  The electronics maker said it may shift some production
overseas if the shortages of parts and materials persist.  Toyota, Honda  “Further bottlenecks for components and disruption of
operations at technology companies are expected in April and
May,” said Eve Jung, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
Taipei. “There’s a risk that these companies may not be able to
meet their second-quarter guidance.”  Sony is also pushing back employee recruitment by about two
months to give opportunities to candidates dealing with the
aftermath of the disaster, the company said in a statement
yesterday. Sony had planned to begin the process next month.  Toyota said earlier the company and its subsidiaries would
keep most of their plants shut until yesterday. The carmaker
decided to extend the closures after checking the status of its
suppliers, said  Shiori Hashimoto , a spokeswoman for the Toyota
City, Japan-based manufacturer. Toyota has lost production of
140,000 vehicles, with electronic parts, rubber and plastics in
short supply, she said.  Honda, Japan’s third-largest carmaker, will keep three
plants in Japan shuttered until at least March 27, it said
yesterday in a faxed statement.  Plants Reopening  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) ,  Hino Motors Ltd. (7205) ,  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ,  Isuzu Motors
Ltd. (7202) ,  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) ,  Kikkoman Corp. (2801) ,  Mitsubishi Motors
Corp. (7211)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  said they haven’t decided when they
will resume full production at factories shut by the disaster.  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , which has halted work at two plants, said a
factory making small liquid-crystal display panels may remain
closed for about a month.  Some companies are reopening plants. Nissan Motor Co.,
Japan’s second-largest carmaker, said it was resuming operations
at six factories yesterday and planning to restart some vehicle
assembly tomorrow. Canon resumed partial output at three
facilities in northern Japan even as it closed the Nagasaki
factory.  Denso Corp. (6902) , the nation’s largest auto-parts maker,
said all of its plants had reopened partially.  Sony resumed partial operations at a battery factory in
Tochigi prefecture yesterday, the company’s third to restart
operations since the earthquake.  Atul Goyal, a senior analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets
in  Singapore , said last week Sony’s operating profit for the 12
months ending March 31 may be 230 billion yen ($2.8 billion), or
about 7 percent lower than he earlier estimated. He cut his
forecast for the following year by 10 percent.  Toyota’s profit may be cut by 6.5 billion yen for each day
of lost production,  Koji Endo , a Tokyo-based analyst at Advanced
Research  Japan , estimated last week.  “For Toyota to resume production, the key would be to
ensure a stable part supply,” said  Satoru Takada , an analyst at
TIW Inc. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  