-- 
South African Adjourns Hearings on Wal-Mart's Bid to Buy Massmart Control

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-03-22T14:42:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/south-african-adjourns-hearings-on-wal-mart-s-bid-to-buy-massmart-control.html
South Africa’s Competition Tribunal
postponed all hearings into  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s bid to buy
control of  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)  until May after unions said a
planned partial delay would harm their case.  The tribunal had agreed earlier with the unions and the
government to hold talks on factual evidence this week and delay
hearings with economists until May. The deal was meant to allow
governmental departments to gather more information about the
world’s largest retailer’s 16.5 billion-rand ($2.4 billion) bid
for control of Massmart. Unions later objected to having some
hearings this week.  “We felt it would be harshly prejudicial to our
position,” said Michael Bride, deputy director for global
strategies at the  North American United Food and Commercial
Workers International Union , in a phone interview from  Pretoria 
today. It would be “much fairer” for hearings to take place
after all documents are submitted, Bride said.  Wal-Mart offered in September to buy 51 percent of Massmart
as it chases international expansion to make up for a U.S.
slowdown. The bid has been opposed by unions concerned about
jobs and local manufacturing, while the government told the
court that the proposed purchase raised “very significant
public interest issues, and might not be capable of being
justified.”  Massmart fell as much as 2 percent to 131.02 rand in
Johannesburg trading after news of the delay. The stock was down
1.3 percent at 3:41 p.m.  After Asda  A Massmart purchase would be the biggest by Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart since its $11 billion takeover of U.K.
retailer Asda Group Ltd. in 1999. Massmart is  South Africa ’s
largest food and general goods wholesaler.  The tribunal has scheduled hearings from May 9 to May 13,
with May 16 set aside for closing arguments, according to Nandi
Mokoena, a spokeswoman for the Pretoria-based antitrust body.  Bride said his group wants antitrust authorities to ensure
that if Wal-Mart enters the country, “it does so on a basis
that will promote economic development rather than destroy it.”  The government affidavit questioning the sale was “poorly
motivated and highly opportunistic,” said Mark Garden,
Massmart’s legal counsel and a director at law firm ENS. The
departments of economic development, agriculture, and trade and
industry submitted the opinion to the court.  Massmart said Jan. 17 that it will continue to honor
existing agreements with workers if the transaction with Wal-
Mart is concluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 