-- 
South Korea ETF Market May More Than Double, Samsung Asset Management Says

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-22T00:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/south-korea-etf-market-may-more-than-double-samsung-asset-management-says.html
South Korea ’s exchange-traded funds
market may more than double in size within two years on
increased investor demand, Samsung Asset Management Co. said.  The value of ETF assets in South Korea, the fourth-biggest
market for the products in  Asia , may expand to 15 trillion won
($13.4 billion), said Kim Dunam, head of the ETF management team
at Samsung Asset, the nation’s biggest provider of ETFs. That
compares with 6.6 trillion won currently, bourse data  show .  ETFs are typically designed to mimic the performance of
indexes. Unlike mutual funds, whose shares are priced once daily
after the end of each trading session, ETFs are listed on an
exchange where shares are bought and sold throughout the day
like stocks. Global ETF assets surged to $1.37 trillion as of
February, from $74.3 billion in 2000, according to a report by
 BlackRock Inc.   “We think demand will keep growing as the product’s merits
such as low costs and handy trades continue to attract investor
interest,” Samsung Asset’s Kim said in an interview in  Seoul 
yesterday.  Samsung Asset, which listed copper and soybean ETFs on
South Korea’s exchange last week, may launch more such products
linked to commodities including oil, Kim said. A total of 74
ETFs are currently traded on Korea Exchange Inc., including
products that track stock indexes, industry sectors,  government
bonds  and gold futures, according to the bourse.  Growth Potential  Korea Exchange may list ETFs that track other industrial
metals and Korean corporate bonds in the first half, according
to Han Ryun Seog, senior vice president of the product listing
team at the exchange’s Kospi market division. The exchange will
“far exceed” its original target of listing more than 20 new
ETF products this year, Han said by phone. It has listed 10 new
products this year.  “There’s much more growth potential for ETFs here, given
the market’s relatively small size compared to the nation’s
economy or stock market,” Park Seong Rae, executive director of
the Kospi market division at Korea Exchange, said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  South Korea’s ETF market had assets of $5.4 billion as of
February, according to data in BlackRock’s report. Shares on the
stock market are valued at $1.07 trillion, while the nation’s
gross domestic product was $832.5 billion last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  South Korea’s ETF market trails the $32.4 billion of assets
under management in  Japan  at the end of February, $26.6 billion
in  Hong Kong  and $11.3 billion in  China , according to
BlackRock’s report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 