-- 
South Africa Declares Foot-and-Mouth Zone in KwaZulu-Natal

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-03-22T14:28:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/south-africa-declares-foot-and-mouth-zone-in-kwazulu-natal-1-.html
South Africa  declared an infection
zone for foot-and-mouth disease in part of KwaZulu-Natal
province and will set up roadblocks to combat the spread of the
illness.  The zone is in the province’s northeast, national
Agriculture Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson said in an e-mailed
statement today. KwaZulu-Natal is in eastern South Africa.  The country suspended all exports of cloven-hoofed animals
and their meat on Feb. 28 after detecting a possible foot-and-
mouth outbreak in KwaZulu-Natal. The disease also forced a halt
to wool auctions on March 1. South Africa is the world’s second-
largest exporter of the fiber for the textile market after
 Australia .  “We wish to reassure our trading partners and the domestic
industry affected by the ban on exports and the movement of
animals that we are mindful of the economic impact,” Joemat-
Pettersson said in today’s statement.  Foot-and-mouth is a contagious viral disease that causes
animals to develop a high fever, followed by blisters in their
mouths and on their feet.  South African farmers earned 1.34 billion rand ($193
million) from wool last year. The country exports mainly
unprocessed fiber, known as greasy wool. About 20 percent of
South Africa’s wool is processed before export, and this is
exempt from the export ban, Ona Viljoen, a spokeswoman for
industry group Cape Wools SA, said March 1.  The country is almost halfway through its wool-selling
season and has sold 620 million rand worth of the fiber, Viljoen
said. Prices are up 36 percent this year.  Wool prices “have not yet reached their ceiling,” Absa
Bank Ltd. said in a March 18 report. “The outbreak of foot and
mouth disease may slow down” increasing prices, it said.  Lost venison exports may cost South Africa as much as 30
million rand, Joemat-Pettersson said Feb. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  