-- 
South African Fourth Quarter Current Account Gap Narrows to Seven-Year Low

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-03-22T09:26:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/south-african-fourth-quarter-current-account-gap-narrows-to-seven-year-low.html
South Africa ’s current account
deficit narrowed to its lowest level in seven years in the
fourth quarter as miners boosted exports of platinum and coal,
underpinning the strength in the rand.  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade in goods and services, shrank to 0.6 percent of gross
domestic product from 3.1 percent in the previous three months,
the  Reserve Bank  said in its Quarterly Bulletin released in
 Pretoria  today.  Africa’s biggest economy has relied on foreign portfolio
investment to fund the current account deficit, flows that have
fluctuated depending on investors’ appetite for riskier assets.
The deficit, which the government has referred to as the
economy’s “Achilles heel,” has narrowed from 7.1 percent in
2008, making it easier to finance and supporting the rand’s 15
percent rally against the dollar in the last six months of 2010.  “A staggeringly good current account deficit print that
will do much to boost the rand for now,”  Razia Khan , head of
Africa economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in  London ,
said in a note to clients. “A key question still revolves
around sustainability in the future. We still see an overall
economic recovery in place in South Africa, and this will
necessarily boost import demand in the months to come.”  Rand Gain  The rand extended its gain after the data was released,
strengthening as much as 0.8 percent to 6.8983 against the
dollar today and was trading at 6.9130 as of 11:07 a.m. in
Johannesburg.  The median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for a deficit of 2.7 percent of GDP. The shortfall eased to
an annualized 17 billion rand ($2.5 billion) in the fourth
quarter from 83.2 billion rand in the previous three months, the
central bank said.  South Africa, the world’s biggest producer of platinum, has
benefited from rising prices of the metal used to make
pollution-control devices in cars. Platinum has climbed 6.7
percent to $1,742.25 an ounce in the past six months. Coal
output also rose in the fourth quarter as demand from European
 power plants  increased because of cold weather, the central bank
said.  While growth in export volumes slowed to 3.4 percent in the
fourth quarter from 6.7 percent in the previous three months,
its value climbed 5.5 percent to an annualized 616.7 billion
rand in the same period, the Reserve Bank said.  Imports Contract  Import volumes contracted for the first time in more than a
year in the fourth quarter, dropping by 2.2 percent, as
companies held back on investment because of subdued demand in
the economy, the bank said.  The drop in imports of machinery and electrical equipment,
as well as vehicles and transport equipment “could largely be
ascribed to fairly sluggish growth in private-sector  capital
spending  and the availability of surplus capacity in the
manufacturing sector,” the bank said.  Foreign investment in stocks and bonds recorded an outflow
for the first time since 2008, dropping 10.4 billion rand in the
fourth quarter compared with an inflow of 45.8 billion rand in
the previous three months. For the year as a whole, portfolio
inflows reached 107.9 billion rand in 2010, little changed from
a year ago, the Reserve Bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 