-- 
South African Antitrust Body Gets Application to Postpone Wal-Mart Deal

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-03-22T07:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/south-african-antitrust-body-gets-application-to-postpone-wal-mart-deal.html
South Africa ’s government asked the
Competition Tribunal to postpone a hearing today into  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s planned takeover of  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , citing
doubts the deal was in the public interest.  “There has been an application and we’ll hear it this
morning,” Norman Manoim, the chairman of the Pretoria-based
 Tribunal , said in a phone interview. The request for a delay is
“being opposed by Wal-Mart. The decision will have to be made
today.”  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, began its bid to
buy 51 percent of South Africa’s Massmart for 16.5 billion rand
($2.4 billion) in September, chasing international expansion to
make up for a U.S. slowdown. The bid has been opposed by labor
unions concerned about jobs and local manufacturing.  South Africa’s department of economic development, its
department of agriculture and its trade and industry department
applied to delay the hearings, Johannesburg-based  Business
Report  reported today. The transaction raises “very significant
public interest issues, and might not be capable of being
justified,” the newspaper said, citing the government’s
affidavit. Manoim confirmed the accuracy of the report.  The departments want the hearing delayed until May 2 to
give the state more time to present their case, he said.  “In  North America  we have witnessed the devastating effect
that the Wal-Mart model has upon small businesses, suppliers,
and communities,” said Michael Bride, deputy director for
Global Strategies for the  North American United Food and
Commercial Workers International Union , in a statement released
today.  Bride, who flew into South Africa two days ago, said his
group wants the antitrust authorities to ensure that if Wal-Mart
does enter the country, “it does so on a basis that will
promote economic development rather than destroy it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 