-- 
Sprint Plans Appeal to Congress to Halt AT&T-T-Mobile Deal

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-22T21:21:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/sprint-ceo-hesse-says-at-t-t-mobile-could-stifle-innovation-.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  Chief Executive
Officer Dan Hesse said the company plans to submit its concerns
over  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed acquisition of  T-Mobile USA  to
Congress, saying the deal hurts the wireless industry.  The combined entity would have “tremendous” power, Hesse
said in an interview at a wireless industry conference in
Orlando, Florida. He said AT&T and  Verizon Wireless  would hold
79 percent of the U.S. market if regulators approve the deal.  Sprint shares fell 14 percent yesterday on concern AT&T’s
$39 billion takeover of T-Mobile, announced March 20, will leave
the Overland Park, Kansas-based carrier a weaker No. 3 player in
the U.S. The deal still needs regulatory approval. Sprint also
held talks about buying T-Mobile, people with knowledge of the
matter said this month.  Hesse, 57, said Sprint will file its concerns to Congress
during the review. The U.S. House Judiciary Committee said
yesterday it will hold a hearing on the takeover. The committee
will look into possible anticompetitive impacts, said
Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican who heads the
panel.  Jim Cicconi, senior executive vice president at AT&T,
responded to Hesse’s comments in an e-mailed statement.  “We understand Sprint has concerns, and we’ll be happy to
address any they present, whether at the  Justice Department , the
FCC or the Congress,” said Cicconi. “We feel we have good and
compelling answers. And we feel policymakers will readily
understand that any company with whom AT&T competes may not be
especially positive about anything which makes AT&T a better
competitor in the wireless market.”  ‘Stifle Innovation’  Hesse declined to say whether Sprint had held talks with T-
Mobile. He told an audience at the wireless event that the
acquisition by AT&T would consolidate too much power in the
mobile-phone market.  “I have concerns it would stifle innovation,” Hesse said.  Sprint rose 11 cents to $4.47 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  