-- 
Stephenson Returns AT&T to Big-Deal Era With $39 Billion Buy

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-03-22T20:05:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/stephenson-returns-at-t-to-era-of-big-deals-with-39-billion-t-mobile-buy.html
Randall Stephenson,  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s
chief executive officer, was asked last year whether his
predecessor, Ed Whitacre, got to have all the fun because he cut
so many deals before stepping down in 2007.  “So you noticed!” Stephenson said with a laugh in an
interview with Bloomberg News in November.  Now the 50-year-old CEO is having his own fun. AT&T’s $39
billion agreement for T-Mobile USA Inc. is the largest since he
took over and about nine times the size of his second-largest
purchase, according to Bloomberg data. Whitacre negotiated at
least four deals for more than $10 billion, as he built the
company’s revenue and reshaped the telecommunications industry.  The T-Mobile deal is a sign Stephenson sees acquisitions as
central to the company’s future, said Rich Nespola, CEO of
 Overland Park , Kansas-based consultant Management Network Group
Inc. AT&T’s revenue of $124.3 billion last year was little
changed from 2008.  “This is a harbinger of more deals to come,” said
Nespola, whose firm has advised AT&T, though not on T-Mobile.
“Stephenson wasn’t the big deal guy, but he was the guy behind
Whitacre and he had his taste of the stuff. He’s the boss now.”  AT&T may look for more wireless assets, such as regional
carriers, and rivals could seek similar deals, he said. Such
carriers include U.S. Cellular Corp. and Cincinnati Bell Corp.  Dan Hays, director of consulting firm PRTM in  Washington 
said AT&T is more likely to build on its wireless business by
making acquisitions in related services, such as mobile
advertising and banking.  Not Much Sleep  The T-Mobile purchase will be good for AT&T and for U.S.
wireless customers, because it will allow for a faster expansion
of high-speed wireless services, said Stephenson. Landing the
deal was exhausting, with intense negotiations over price and
some long nights, he said.  “I haven’t gotten much sleep,” Stephenson said in an
interview. “I haven’t really had the chance to even reflect on
all this. I am trying to do something good for the company and I
think this is great for AT&T.”  Whitacre, now 69, built SBC Communications Inc., the
smallest of the Baby Bells after the breakup of Ma Bell, into
the largest U.S. phone company. His $200 billion in acquisitions
led to consolidation in the industry as rivals sought scale to
compete.  Stephenson worked at Whitacre’s side as he negotiated some
of his biggest deals. Stephenson was operating chief when
Whitacre’s SBC bought AT&T Corp. in 2005, giving the company its
current name, and when he brokered the purchase of BellSouth
Corp. in 2006 for more than $80 billion.  Stephenson Takes Over  Stephenson took the helm of AT&T from Whitacre in June
2007, the same month the company became the only U.S. carrier to
sell the Apple Inc. iPhone. While the iPhone won AT&T millions
of new subscribers, the crush of data traffic from the devices
caused a spike in dropped and failed calls in some areas and
hurt customer satisfaction ratings.  AT&T has seen an 8,000 percent increase in data traffic in
four years, Stephenson said yesterday on a conference call. The
company added billions to its budget for network infrastructure
to meet the new demand.  A global recession caused the first sales decline in six
years in 2009. The same year,  Verizon Wireless , the mobile
carrier co-owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , surpassed AT&T as the largest U.S. mobile carrier
with the almost $30 billion purchase of Alltel Corp.  The T-Mobile acquisition, which still needs regulatory
approval, would push AT&T back ahead of Verizon Wireless. It may
also provide $3 billion a year in cost savings and revenue
gains, AT&T said.  AT&T’s Challenges  “This puts AT&T in a superior position for growth in the
future,” Howard Loewenberg, managing director of boutique
telecommunications investment bank Signal Hill Capital, said in
an interview.  The challenges with the T-Mobile agreement are both
regulatory and operational, said William Power, an analyst with
Robert W. Baird & Co. AT&T will likely have to agree to
significant divestitures and still may not win government
approval, he wrote in a research note yesterday.  “Though the two operate the same technology, integration
risks are still significant,” said Power, who has a “neutral”
rating on AT&T. “T-Mobile subscriber losses could accelerate.”  The largest deal on Stephenson’s watch prior to T-Mobile
was the 2007 acquisition of Dobson Communications Corp. for
about $4.5 billion, including the assumption of debt, according
to Bloomberg data.  Oklahoma City   Stephenson was born in Oklahoma City and started his career
at Southwestern Bell in 1982. He earned a master’s degree in
accounting and relies more on research and analysis than the gut
instinct favored by Whitacre, his deputies have said. Stephenson
worked as chief financial officer and COO before Whitacre tapped
him for the CEO role.  AT&T fell 16 cents to $28.10 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined 4.3 percent
this year.  AT&T’s future deals are unlikely to be for U.S. cable
operators or telecommunications companies in other countries,
said PRTM’s Hays. Instead, the company will probably try to
expand its wireless business, by adding features and new
products, he said.  Mobile advertising, mobile banking and content that builds
off of social networks, such as the online coupon distributors
Groupon Inc. and LivingSocial.com, could help AT&T lead the next
evolution of the industry, he said in an interview.  “AT&T is much more likely to piece together a portfolio
that increases the value of mobile customers through acquiring
very sticky applications and services,” Hays said.  “ Ed Whitacre  built a tremendous entity on the heels of
telecom deregulation,” Hays said. “Stephenson is now facing a
new era.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  