-- 
Stonewall’s Kerchief, Slave’s Cradle Shown at Civil War Exhibit

-- B y   D a v e   S h i f l e t t
-- 
2011-03-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/stonewall-s-kerchief-slave-s-cradle-shown-at-civil-war-exhibit.html
A slave’s doll cradle, a raccoon-
skin shoe and buttons made from persimmon seeds are among the
items on display at the  Museum of the Confederacy  to commemorate
the 150th anniversary of the Civil War’s first battle.  The sesquicentennial exhibits in Richmond,  Virginia , focus
on the impact the bloodiest war in American history had on non-
combatants, including the 3.6 million slaves who lived in the
South at the time.  “It’s not just about white guys fighting,” says Vickie
Yates, head of the museum’s marketing and public relations
department.  The war began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces
attacked a U.S. military base at Fort Sumter,  South Carolina . It
ended on April 9, 1865, when Confederate General Robert E. Lee
surrendered to Union commander Ulysses S. Grant at Virginia’s
Appomattox Court House.  Waite Rawls III, the museum’s president and chief
executive, said interest in the Civil War remains high not only
in the U.S. but overseas.  Twenty percent of museum visitors in January were from the
U.K., he said. Rawls recalled the day he was summoned to the
museum’s front desk to meet a group of battle re-enactors from
Stuttgart,  Germany .  “They said they have a hard time doing re-enactments in
Germany because no one wants to play the part of the Yankees,”
said Rawls, a former banker in  New York  who was wearing his
customary bow tie.  Lee’s Horse, Hair  The anniversary exhibit, which runs all year, includes such
oddities as a dinner plate a woman used to bang a foraging Union
soldier over the head and a textbook that includes this math
problem: “If one Confederate soldier kills 90 Yankees, how many
Yankees can 10 Confederate soldiers kill?”  Visitors also can see a lock of Lee’s hair, a watch chain
made from his horse’s hair and the uniform he wore while
surrendering at Appomattox.  Those items join permanent displays, such as paperwork for
the 1842 sale of a Georgia slave and 1772 correspondence
“concerning the capture and confinement of a runaway slave”
named Jacob. Plus a handkerchief purportedly stained with the
blood of Confederate general Stonewall Jackson.  Spielberg, Burns  The museum, which is 115 years old, has attracted celebrity
visitors such as Ken Burns, who used its artifacts in his
sprawling Civil War documentary. Film director  Steven Spielberg 
visited the adjacent White House of the Confederacy in November
while preparing for a movie on  Abraham Lincoln .  The tone of the sesquicentennial observations isn’t going
over well with everyone.  Roger McCredie, executive director of the Southern Legal
Resource Center, worries that it’s “going to be the apogee of
of South-bashing.”  Yet a guide at the White House of the Confederacy points
out that even some of the best-known Confederates, including
Jefferson Davis’ widow Varina, managed to put the war behind
them.  Varina Davis moved to New York after her husband’s death in
1889 and wrote newspaper columns for Joseph Pulitzer’s New York
World. She became a pariah to some Southerners after befriending
Grant’s widow and greeting the famous black educator, Booker T.
 Washington .  ( Dave Shiflett  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Dave Shiflett at  dshifl@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 