-- 
Sunac Says Inadvertent Release by Goldman Causes Cancellation of Bond Sale

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-03-22T09:27:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/sunac-says-goldman-sachs-responsible-for-bond-sale-cancellation.html
An official at  Sunac China Holdings
Ltd. (1918) , which cancelled its first bond sale this month, said
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. inadvertently released confidential
information regarding the developer’s finances to some investors.  Goldman Sachs was “in charge of marketing materials” for
the bond offer and included 2011 financial forecasts in an
investor presentation, raising compliance concerns, Feng Yanhong,
an investor relations manager for Tianjin-based Sunac, said in a
telephone interview from Beijing.  Feng wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter and her
comments don’t represent the company’s views, Huang Shu Ping,
assistant to Sunac Chief Executive Officer Sun Hongbin, said in
an e-mailed comment today. Edward Naylor, a spokesman for
Goldman Sachs in Hong Kong, declined to comment, and when
contacted by phone Feng said she couldn’t comment further.  Sunac, which builds luxury properties in cities including
Beijing and Chongqing, cancelled its bond plans on March 9 and
published some 2011 earnings estimates and targets in a filing
to  Hong Kong ’s stock exchange. It fell 3.9 percent when trading
was resumed on March 9 after the stock was suspended a day
earlier, and fell 2.85 percent to HK$2.39 today.  Sunac said in the filing that its average gross margin
would exceed 40 percent this year while total targeted
contracted sales may reach 18.3 billion yuan ($2.8 billion).
Aggregate land purchase expenses are forecast to be 5.43 billion
yuan, while construction expenses may be 7.67 billion yuan.  Gross margins for 2010 were 43.3 percent while total sales
were 6.65 billion yuan, according to the company’s annual report,
which was published yesterday.  Sunac also hired Deutsche Bank AG and  Standard Chartered 
Plc to help arrange its bond sale and investor meetings. Mark Bennewith, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank in  Singapore , declined
to comment. Joyce Li, a spokeswoman for Standard Chartered in
Hong Kong, also declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net 
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  