-- 
Sweden Says Short Selling Ban Will Cripple Small Debt Markets

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-03-22T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/sweden-says-short-selling-ban-will-cripple-small-debt-markets.html
Sweden  is warning that European
efforts to restrict short selling may cripple debt markets in
smaller countries and says it will fight “shortsighted”
proposals.  “If you ban naked short selling, that will mean more
problems in funding countries’ national debts, especially for
small countries,” said Bo Lundgren, 63, the head of Sweden’s
National Debt Office, in an interview in Stockholm. “Hopefully,
they will listen” to Swedish pleas to rethink a ban, he said.  The European Union is discussing measures to restrict short
selling, a push the bloc “can’t afford to delay,” financial
services chiefMichel Barnier said on March 15. Germany and
France are leading the drive to curb derivatives trading, a
practice they say exacerbated  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.
Leaders from the region’s smaller countries say stricter rules
would undermine liquidity and jeopardize their debt sales.  “Too often -- I know as I was once a politician --
politicians are a bit shortsighted and don’t take analysis to
heart,” said Lundgren, who in his former job as minister of
fiscal and financial affairs helped rebuild Sweden’s bank
industry after its 1990s meltdown.  In a short sale an investor borrows a security with a view
to selling it and then repurchasing it at a lower price before
returning it. In a naked short, an investor doesn’t need to
borrow the underlying security.  Governments in the 27-nation EU and lawmakers in the
European Parliament are discussing whether to restrict so-called
naked short selling after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  blamed the trade for
encouraging speculation.  ‘Panic Move’  Sweden says without the access to naked shorts -- which
investors rely on to enter  repurchase agreements  with the
country’s central bank -- bond-market liquidity will evaporate.
The naked short contracts allow traders to generate more
liquidity via the repo transaction than they’d be able to
without access to the derivative, said Mats Hyden, chief
strategist at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Stockholm.  “The European Union’s plan to restrict naked short
selling is a panic move,” Hyden said. “They’re chasing ghosts;
the politicians are rushing and Sweden’s economy and its banks
may be punished more than larger markets such as Germany or
 France . It all depends on how these rules are implemented.”  Sweden, which is backed by Luxembourg and  Italy  in opposing
a ban on naked shorts, risks a surge in borrowing costs should a
ban be approved, said Thomas Olofsson, head of debt management
at Sweden’s national debt office, in an interview.  ‘Increased Volatility’  “A loss of liquidity could mean increased volatility and
interest rates,” Olofsson said. “Large investors like central
banks, could in the worst case, be more cautious investing in
smaller markets. This would be detrimental to smaller countries’
ability to handle situations in which they have to borrow larger
amounts, such as during a crisis. The effect very much depends
on how any new rule is applied. The devil is in the details.”  Lawmakers in the EU Parliament’s economic and monetary
affairs committee in Strasbourg voted this month in favor of
banning short selling of stocks or  government bonds  unless
traders have “located and reserved,” in advance, the
securities they intend to sell.  Barnier said final rules won’t harm liquidity and insists
that sovereign debt “must be covered” by the EU proposals.  “Parliament wants to go much further,” Barnier said.
“They voted for a complete ban on naked short selling of
sovereign credit default swaps.” The EU Parliament is unlikely
to agree to diluted rules, he said.  ‘Add Uncertainty’  The  Association for Financial Markets in Europe , which
represents lenders including Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG, has
warned that “banning naked short selling is likely to raise the
cost of borrowing for EU governments,”  in a March 9 statement.
“It will make financial markets less liquid and add uncertainty
for European companies looking to hedge risk.”  Governments will try to complete work on short selling
rules by May, said  Gyorgy Matolcsy , the finance minister of
 Hungary , which holds the EU’s rotating presidency.  The EU will “work hard to finalize the text” for the next
meeting of Europe’s finance ministers, he said.  Governments would need to reach a compromise with the
European Parliament on the rules before they could become law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 