-- 
Swiss Watch Fans Gather at Baselworld as Sales Outlook Worsens

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-03-22T23:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/swiss-watch-recovery-in-jeopardy-as-mideast-unrest-japan-quake-dent-sales.html
As Swiss watch enthusiasts flock to
Baselworld this week to ogle items including the $35,900 Omega
Ladymatic at the industry’s largest fair, the devastation left
by  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami threatens to restrain growth
in luxury timepiece sales.  Swiss watch exports may now advance as little as 7 percent
this year, Kepler Capital Markets analyst Jon Cox estimates.
That’s down from the 10 percent he anticipated in January and
about a third of last year’s 22 percent jump. Sales in the first
two months of the year advanced 18 percent, the Federal Customs
Offices said yesterday.  Japan’s earthquake happened after shipments of timepieces
grew there for the first time in four years. Shoppers in the
country are expected to hold back spending after the temblor.
Sales of  luxury goods  may drop by as much as a third this year
in Japan, the source of about a quarter of the industry’s sales
including money spent by the nation’s travelers abroad, analysts
estimate.  “The mood at Baselworld is certainly going to be more
somber,” Cox said. “Most Japanese have far more important
things on their minds than going out to buy a watch.”  Dealers go to Baselworld to place orders for the most
recent limited editions and hardest-to-obtain pieces, such as
the $23,000 Breguet Type XXII 10 Hertz chronograph. The fair
attracts 2,000 companies from the watch, jewelry and gem
industries to show off their wares to 100,000 visitors.  The biggest luxury watch brands such as Rolex,  Patek
Philippe  and Breitling construct stands that have included giant
aquariums full of thousands of fish.  ‘Worst-Case Scenario’  Japan imported 806 million Swiss francs ($892 million) of
watches in 2010, about 5 percent of Switzerland’s total exports
of timepieces. Shipments rose 4.9 percent in 2010, the first
gain in four years.  “With the recent Japan disaster, it seems that in less
than three months, the luxury sector has moved from a perfect
alignment of stars to a worst-case scenario,”  Antoine Belge , an
analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, wrote in a March 16 note.  The  World Bank  has said Japan may need five years to
rebuild after the disasters, which killed more than 9,000 people
and destroyed thousands of buildings. The concerns come as
export growth to greater China, the biggest market for Swiss
watches, slows to about 15 percent from 50 percent last year,
according to Rene Weber, an analyst at Bank Vontobel.  Biggest Watchmakers  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, whose watch brands include
Cartier and Vacheron Constantin, got 11 percent of its revenue
from Japan in the nine months through  December .  Swatch Group AG (UHR) ,
the owner of the Omega and Breguet brands, gets about 3 percent
of revenue from Japan, HSBC estimates.  Belge recommends investors be “overweight” in both Swatch
and Richemont, the world’s biggest publicly traded watchmakers,
saying the stocks have dropped more than warranted on their
earnings outlook. Swatch shares have fallen 5.2 percent so far
this year, while Richemont has declined 5.8 percent.  Political turmoil in Arab countries would weigh on the
industry more if it spreads to bigger markets in the Middle East
such as  Saudi Arabia , Renaissance BJM analyst Rey Wium said.
North Africa imports less than 1 percent of Switzerland’s
watches, while the Middle East buys about a tenth, according to
Weber. Dubai is the biggest market for Swiss watches in the
region, as residents of the rest of the Middle East go there for
luxury shopping.  ‘Last Thing’  “Buying a Breguet or an Omega or a Chopard is probably the
last thing on their mind,” Cox said. “They’re probably keeping
their eye on  Libya , but also Bahrain and Oman don’t look too
particularly good at the moment.”  Libya faces an air campaign by allied forces trying to help
rebels control cities after Muammar Qaddafi’s attacks on the
country’s population. Bahrain declared a three-month state of
emergency on March 15 after troops from Saudi Arabia and other
Arab Gulf states arrived to support the kingdom’s Sunni monarch
in suppressing demonstrations. The country’s Interior Ministry
said March 21 security is “stable” and life is returning to
normal. In Oman, protesters have demanded more political
representation.  The Middle East turmoil could also cut demand for watches
by boosting the price of oil and weighing on global economic
growth, Wium said. Oil has gained about 14 percent this year
amid the unrest.  Bottleneck  To be sure, Swiss watch exports this year may still set a
record, beating the 17 billion francs of timepieces  Switzerland 
exported in 2008, Cox estimates.  The slowdown might also help watchmakers who are struggling
with shortages of components, such as Swatch, to catch up with
orders, he said.  Swatch Group Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek Jr. said
Jan. 19 the watchmaker may hire as many as 2,000 people to help
produce more components and that it is considering acquisitions
of part makers to reduce bottlenecks. Hayek said Feb. 8 that the
Omega brand needed about 100,000 watch hands to keep up with
orders. Watchmakers may ship their finished pieces to the
markets that are performing better, analysts said.  “The fact that there’s a little bit of a slowdown in the
Middle East and Japan actually helps them in some ways to fill
the demand in  China ,” Cox said. “It’s not like the Chinese
will suddenly stop buying watches.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 