-- 
Swiss Too-Big-to-Fail Proposals Criticized by Political Parties

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-03-23T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/swiss-christian-democrats-back-too-big-to-fail-bank-proposals.html
Swiss government proposals to limit
risk-taking by  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  were criticized
this week by three of the nation’s four main political parties,
casting doubt on the timetable for parliamentary approval.  While the Social Democrats said the  capital requirements 
are insufficient, the  Swiss People’s Party  wants “concrete
measures” to split up the banks in a crisis situation so that
failing units don’t threaten the economy. The  Swiss Liberals , on
the other hand, said the government’s organizational
requirements in case of a potential failure are too harsh.  Parties and industry groups have until today to comment on
too-big-to-fail  proposals  based on an Oct. 4 report from a
government-appointed panel of experts. The government will
update those suggestions and send them to lawmakers next month.  Swiss rule makers want UBS and Credit Suisse, which each
have assets more than twice the size of the Alpine economy, to
hoard capital to cut the risk of an Icelandic-style collapse.
Swiss central bank President Philipp Hildebrand said he remains
confident the proposals will be turned into law.  “I’m convinced that an implementation of these
recommendations will significantly reduce risks of too-big-to-
fail, but also reinforce the competitiveness of our large banks
and our financial marketplace over time,” he said in Geneva
yesterday. “It’s a good solution.”  Hildebrand has come under fire in recent months for being a
fierce advocate of tighter regulation of the country’s biggest
banks. The central bank sits on the panel appointed by Swiss
ministers.  Capital Requirements  The government has recommended changes to banking laws that
would require UBS and smaller rival Credit Suisse to hold
capital equal to at least 19 percent of assets, weighted
according to risk, by 2019. That compares with a 10.5 percent
requirement set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
for lenders worldwide.  The  leverage ratio , which measures capital against non-
risk-weighted assets, should also be at least 10 percent for
 Switzerland ’s big banks, the  Social Democrats  said in a
statement. While the government hasn’t decided on a leverage
ratio, the expert panel said the proposed capital requirements
would involve a ratio of at least 5 percent.  The Social Democrats also suggested tougher requirements
for contingent convertible bonds, which are converted into
equity when a bank’s capital falls below certain trigger levels.  While the  Christians Democrats  “clearly support” the
proposals, they said the timetable is too tight.  In October, the panel recommended a “rapid”
implementation of all the proposals as a package. Two months
later, the government said the planned legislation won’t take
effect before the beginning of 2012. The too-big-to-fail
proposals could be approved at the earliest during parliament’s
three-week autumn session, which starts on Sept. 12, Swiss
parliament spokeswoman Karin Burkhalter said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at   kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  