-- 
Switzerland's Hildebrand Sees Economic Risks From Euro Crisis, Japan Quake

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-03-22T12:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/switzerland-s-hildebrand-sees-economic-risks-from-euro-crisis-japan-quake.html
Swiss National Bank President
Philipp Hildebrand said inflation currently remains “weak,”
while the economy faces risks from  Europe ’s debt crisis and the
potential impact from the earthquake in  Japan .  “Despite the increase in oil prices, current inflation
remains weak and inflation expectations remain stable,”
Hildebrand said at an event in Geneva today. “Our economy is
still facing considerable risks and in some aspects there are
still very high uncertainties.”  The central bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged
near zero last week and said there is “no threat to  price
stability  in the short term.” The decision came as the Swiss
franc reached a record against the dollar, pushed up by global
uncertainty in the wake of the March 11 quake in Japan. The
currency, considered a haven in times of turmoil, has also
gained against the euro.  “Complacency would be the wrong attitude,” Hildebrand
said. While euro-area finance ministers made an “important
decision” on solving the region’s debt crisis this month, the
“problems in a number of countries continue to cast a shadow of
uncertainty and risk.”  The Swiss franc has gained 12 percent over the last year
versus the euro, the currency of its main trading partner,
eroding exporters’ competitiveness. Against the dollar, it
reached a record 88.52 centimes per dollar on March 17.  The franc traded at 1.2858 versus the euro as of 12:17 p.m.
in Zurich, little changed from yesterday. Against the dollar, it
traded at 90.34 centimes.  Middle East, Japan  Hildebrand said the turmoil in the Middle East has added to
uncertainty by pushing up  oil prices , though  Switzerland  is
“somewhat protected by the strong franc.”  “The third source of risk is the situation in Japan,” he
said. “It’s very difficult to make an accurate assessment as
how we should quantify these risks.”  The SNB on March 17 raised its forecast for economic growth
this year to about 2 percent from 1.5 percent, citing “broad
based” growth in the economy.  Hildebrand said today that Swiss exports are “remarkably
resilient,” adding that the stronger franc will eventually
result in some “growth slowdown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  