-- 
U.A.E. Bourses, Dodd-Frank, Google Tax Bill, N.Y. Fed Shuffle: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-03-22T12:34:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/u-a-e-bourses-dodd-frank-google-tax-bill-n-y-fed-shuffle-compliance.html
The United Arab Emirates’ three
stock exchanges should merge to help boost trading volumes and
improve visibility for foreign investors, a majority of
investment professionals holding the CFA charter said.  Ninety-three percent of about 200 respondents in a survey
of CFA charterholders from nine Middle East countries support
the merger of the U.A.E.’s three bourses into a national
exchange, according to a survey released by the local CFA
association at a conference in Dubai yesterday. More than 90
percent of the respondents said this will result in greater
volumes and liquidity in the market, while more than half said
it will improve visibility for foreign investors, the survey
said.  The results were part of the first Middle East market
sentiment survey conducted by CFA Emirates, an association of
investment professionals who hold the Chartered Financial
Analyst designation. The designation is awarded by the not-for-
profit  CFA Institute , based in Charlottesville, Virginia.  The U.A.E., the second-biggest Arab economy, is home to the
Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange, the  Dubai Financial Market  and
Nasdaq Dubai.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Push to Rewrite Parts of Dodd-Frank Gains Momentum in Congress  As financial regulators are writing hundreds of rules to
implement the Dodd-Frank Act, Democratic and Republican
lawmakers are joining forces to blunt its impact on companies
that may include debit-card issuers and credit raters.  A sweeping rewrite -- or the all-out repeal urged by some
Republicans -- is unlikely as long as Democrats remain in charge
of both the Senate and the White House, lawmakers say. At the
same time, Democratic support is building to amend the law in
some key areas.  Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, senior Republican on the
 Banking Committee , who has led several requests to regulators to
slow the pace of rulemaking, said implementation of the law
would be “very, very expensive,” absent legislative action.  Legislation that would delay a  Federal Reserve  proposal to
cap debit-card “swipe” fees may be first on the list,
propelled by lobbying from banks. An effort to change the
leadership structure of the nascent Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau also may be gaining strength; House
Republicans say some moderate Senate Democrats may support it.  Lawmakers are also exploring ways to lessen the impact of
new derivatives rules on companies that hedge business risk, and
may revise sections of the law on credit-rating services and
executive pay.  Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat, is the chief
sponsor of a bill that would delay implementation of the rule
for two years to study its impact. Shelly Moore Capito, a West
Virginia Republican, has introduced a similar measure in the
House. Tester said in an interview that he had been lobbying his
colleagues with some success.  For more, click here.  EU Debt Crisis Summit Fails to Comfort Investors: Euro Credit  Europe ’s efforts to tackle its sovereign debt crisis aren’t
persuading money managers to buy bonds from the region’s most
indebted nations.  Work thrashing out a solution to the region’s credit woes
is due to culminate at a March 24-25 summit of European leaders.
A sluggish growth outlook, unsustainable debt levels and a lack
of clarity about what happens once aid measures expire in
mid-2013 are keeping investors, including Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, out of
the market even as euro-area officials construct a comprehensive
debt-support package to revive confidence.  Finance ministers announced steps yesterday to fight the
debt crisis, running into European Central Bank criticism for
doing too little to prevent budget shocks from threatening the
euro. The policy makers settled on how to enable a permanent
rescue fund to lend 500 billion euros ($627 billion) as of 2013,
while remaining divided over how to get the current stopgap fund
up to its full capacity of 440 billion euros.  For more, click here and click here.  Life Insurer Lobby Met Fed to Discuss Dodd-Frank Capital Rules  Federal Reserve Board staff met with the American Council
of Life Insurers as the trade group pushes its proposal to
exclude the industry from new  capital requirements  designed for
U.S. banks.  ACLI representatives led by Senior Vice President Julie
Spiezio met with Fed staff earlier this month to discuss “the
challenges of applying a bank-centric capital framework” on
insurance companies through the Dodd-Frank law that overhauled
the financial industry last year, the central bank said in a
 statement  on its website. The law subjects insurers to greater
federal scrutiny.  The ACLI is pressing the Fed to exclude insurers from some
bank rules and instead rely on capital-adequacy calculations
provided by the industry’s state regulators.  During the March 8 meeting, the ACLI discussed Dodd-Frank’s
so-called Volcker Rule, which prohibits banks from betting their
capital for their own accounts, and the Collins Amendment, a
provision that bars lenders from counting trust-preferred
securities as part of their capital cushions, according to the
Fed.  U.K. FSA Says CFTC Clearinghouse Proposal May Increase Risk  A U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  proposal
requiring derivatives clearinghouses to open membership to firms
with at least $50 million in capital “could lead to increased
risk to the system in the short to medium term,” the U.K.’s
 Financial Services Authority  said.  Alexander Justham, the FSA’s director of markets, wrote
urging the U.S. regulator yesterday  in a comment letter  to set
risk-based participation requirements.  The letter was written in response to the CFTC’s proposal,
part of the agency’s rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act. The
regulatory overhaul enacted last year law aims to have most
swaps guaranteed by clearinghouses that seek to reduce risk in
the financial system by standing between buyers and sellers.  Compliance Action  Google Questioned by SEC Over Earnings in Low-Tax Countries  Google Inc. (GOOG)  received questions from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission in December about earnings in other
countries that may have reduced the company’s tax bill,
according to regulatory filings released yesterday.  SEC officials asked Google for “disclosures to explain in
greater detail the impact on your effective income tax rates and
obligations of having proportionally higher earnings in
countries where you have lower statutory tax rates,” according
to a Dec. 2  letter .  The company responded to the requests for information, the
filings show. The SEC said in a Feb. 3 letter that it had
completed its review of Google’s filings, and has “no further
comments at this time on the specific issues raised.”  Google, owner of the world’s most-popular search engine,
has used a strategy that has gained favor among some U.S.
companies to reduce taxes. Google cut income taxes by $3.1
billion over three years by shifting the bulk of foreign profits
to Ireland, then the Netherlands and eventually to no-tax
Bermuda, according to regulatory filings in the U.S. and abroad.  The tax-cutting strategy, involving a pair of techniques
known to lawyers as the “Double Irish” and the “Dutch
Sandwich,” helped cut the company’s income-tax rate to 2.4
percent on the profits it attributed to its foreign subsidiaries
during the three-year period, filings show.  For more, click here.  Nuclear ‘Stress Test’ Rules Sought by EU at Emergency Meeting  European Union energy ministers will seek agreement on
“stress tests” for the region’s nuclear plants at an emergency
meeting yesterday called in response to  Japan ’s atomic accident.  Nuclear power stations owned by companies including
Electricite de France SA and  Germany ’s RWE AG produce a third of
the electricity in the EU, which wants to draw up common
criteria to gauge the safety of the region’s 143 atomic plants.
The risk of a nuclear meltdown in Japan after a March 11
earthquake and tsunami triggered public protests in Europe
against atomic power and prompted Germany to order a temporary
halt to the country’s seven oldest reactors.  Countries led by Germany are calling for a deeper alignment
of Europe’s rules on nuclear safety, which is a shared
responsibility between national and EU authorities. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  has urged uniform standards across the
EU and said she will raise the issue at a March 24-25 meeting of
the bloc’s leaders.  For more, click here.  SEC Halts Trading of Chinese Firm Heli Amid Accounting Questions  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission halted trading
of Guangzhou, China-based  Heli Electronics Corp. (HELI)  after faulting
the firm for a lack of current and accurate information in its
financial statements.  Heli, which distributes electronic products, failed to
disclose that its auditor resigned because of accounting
irregularities, including discrepancies between the company’s
cash-balance records and its bank statements, questions about
the existence of some customers and the possibility that records
had been falsified, the SEC said yesterday in a  statement .  A phone call to Mickey Jiang, who is listed on Heli’s
website as the investor relations contact, was answered by a
recording. An e-mail to Jiang wasn’t immediately returned.  The trading suspension, which began yesterday at 9:30 a.m.
in  New York , will remain in effect through April 1.  The SEC set up a  task force  to look for fraud in overseas
companies, specifically from  China , with listings on U.S.
exchanges, and launched a probe last year asking auditors for
information on audit practices of such firms.  China Starts Campaign Against ‘Illegal’ Mappers, Xinhua Reports  China has started a campaign to eliminate “illegal”
online mapping services that will involve 13 ministry-level
government agencies, Xinhua News Agency said, citing the State
Bureau of Surveying and Mapping.  Separately,  China’s eastern province of Anhui will close
down illegal television stations after a blogger said 600 were
operating in the province, the news agency reported, citing Yang
Jian, an official at the Anhui Provincial Bureau of Radio, Film
and Television.  Courts  Fed Will Release Bank Loan Data as Top Court Rejects Appeal  The Federal Reserve will disclose details of emergency
loans it made to banks in 2008, after the U.S.  Supreme Court 
rejected an industry appeal that aimed to shield the records
from public view.  The justices yesterday left intact a court order that gives
the Fed five days to release the records, sought by Bloomberg
News’s parent company, Bloomberg LP. The Clearing House
Association LLC, a group of the nation’s largest commercial
banks, had asked the Supreme Court to intervene.  The records were originally requested under the Freedom of
Information Act by a Bloomberg News reporter, the late Mark
Pittman.  David Skidmore , a spokesman for the Fed, said the board
will comply with the court’s decision.  The order marks the first time a court has forced the Fed
to reveal the names of banks that borrowed from its oldest
lending program, the 98-year-old discount window. The
disclosures, together with details of six bailout programs
released by the central bank in December under a congressional
mandate, would give taxpayers insight into the Fed’s $3.5
trillion effort to stem the 2008 financial panic.  Under the trial judge’s order, the Fed must reveal 231
pages of documents related to borrowers in April and May 2008,
along with loan amounts.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox News is pressing a bid
for disclosure of similar information.  The  Clearing House Association  contended that Bloomberg is
seeking an unprecedented disclosure that might dissuade banks
from accepting emergency loans in the future. In a statement
after the decision, the group said it is “disappointed that the
court has declined our petitions, which deal with the protection
of highly confidential bank information provided to the Federal
Reserve.”  The cases are Clearing House Association v. Bloomberg,
10-543, and Clearing House Association v. Fox News Network,
10-660.  For more, click here and click here, and click here.  Interviews  Levitt Say Obama Unlikely to Fight For Warren  Former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
Arthur Levitt discussed  Elizabeth Warren , special adviser to the
secretary of the Treasury for the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau. Levitt says U.S. President Barack Obama is unlikely to
spend the political capital necessary to defend Warren from
Republican attacks.  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  New York Fed Reorganizes Bank Supervision for Dodd-Frank Mandate  The  Federal Reserve Bank  of New York, which oversees some
of the largest U.S. financial firms, has reorganized its bank
supervision group to strengthen its oversight capabilities.  The division has been renamed the  Financial Institution
Supervision Group , in a nod to the Fed’s expanded authority
under the Dodd-Frank Act, according to the New York Fed’s
website. The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law by President Barack
Obama in July, gave the Fed authority for overseeing non-bank
financial firms deemed “too big to fail” because their
collapse might pose a risk to the financial system.  The New York Fed oversees firms in New York such as Goldman
Sachs and is slated to gain responsibility for non-bank
companies in its district such as Fairfield, Connecticut-based
 General Electric Co. (GE) ’s GE Capital unit.  The Fed bank has moved specialists from the supervision
group’s risk management function to its relationship management
teams, according to two people familiar with the reorganization
who declined to be identified because the changes haven’t been
made public officially. The relationship management teams are
responsible for covering specific institutions, according to the
New York Fed’s website.  The risk analysts will relocate from the New York Fed’s
downtown Manhattan headquarters to on-site locations at the
financial firms, according to the two people familiar with the
matter.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 