-- 
U.K. Tackles Immigration With Clampdown on Student-Visa Issuance

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-03-22T16:40:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/u-k-tackles-immigration-with-clampdown-on-student-visa-issuance.html
U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May
announced restrictions on student visas, saying they provide an
easy route into Britain for those seeking to sidestep stringent
immigration controls.  Immigration by students has more than trebled over the past
10 years against a backdrop of an “increase in abuse in the
higher-education sector,” May told lawmakers in Parliament in
 London  today. “Bogus” institutions that let in underqualified
students and illegal migrants are to blame, she said.  May said the U.K. will increase the vetting procedures for
colleges so only “bona fide” institutions can operate. In
future, those who wish to study in the country must speak
English and be able to support themselves financially without
paid employment.  The clampdown is part of Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
effort to bring net annual immigration below the “tens of
thousands” compared with almost 200,000 in 2009.  “We want to attract only the best and the brightest to
Britain,” May said. “We are tightening up the system, tackling
the abuse and supporting only the most economically beneficial
migrants.”  A panel of lawmakers said March 17 it feared a clampdown on
student visas might damage a business valued at 40 billion
pounds ($66 billion) a year to universities and colleges.  The cross-party Home Affairs Committee said in a report
that evidence from  Australia  found that changes to that
country’s visa system contributed to a 19 percent decline in
student visa applications from 2009 to 2010. The panel said the
future of the U.K.’s knowledge economy is “reliant on
international students.”  Economic Impact  Business Secretary Vince Cable expressed concern the same
day that the changes might affect “university finances” and
the wider economy.  Under the plans, only postgraduate students at universities
and government-sponsored students will be allowed to bring their
dependants, changing current rules that allow students on longer
courses to bring their families.  The U.K. will limit the overall time that can be spent on a
student visa to three years at lower levels, as now, and five
years at higher levels. At present there is no limit for study
at or above degree level.  Britain will also close the so-called “post-study work
route,” which allows students two years to seek employment
after their course ended. Only those graduates who have an offer
of a skilled job from a sponsoring employer, earning more than
20,000 pounds a year, will be able to stay to work.  Those coming to study at degree level will have to speak
English at an upper intermediate level, higher than the current
requirement. U.K. Border Agency staff will be able to refuse
entry to students who “cannot speak English without an
interpreter and who therefore patently do not meet the required
minimum standards,” the  Home Office  said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 