-- 
U.K. Factory Index Rises to Highest Level Since 2008, CBI Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-22T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/u-k-factory-index-rises-to-highest-level-since-2008-cbi-says.html
A U.K. index of factory orders rose
in March to its highest level in three years and price pressures
continued to build, the  Confederation of British Industry  said.  The orders gauge, based on a survey of 441 manufacturers,
increased to 5, the highest since March 2008, from minus 8 in
February, the nation’s biggest business lobby group said in a
report published in London today. An index of selling prices
over the next three months rose to the highest since July 2008.  Strengthening factory output and accelerating inflation are
putting pressure on the  Bank of England  to raise its benchmark
interest rate to tame price pressures. Still, the recovery is
being threatened by the government’s budget squeeze, while
policy makers must also assess the potential impact of the March
11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .  “The manufacturing recovery is picking up pace” as a
“firming of domestic demand adds to the healthy export
outlook,” CBI Chief Economic Adviser Ian McCafferty said in a
statement. “However, inflationary pressures in the
manufacturing sector remain very acute as firms look to pass on
sharply increased raw-material costs.”  The CBI’s price gauge climbed 1 point to 33 this month. A
separate report today showed consumer-price growth accelerated
to 4.4 percent in February from 4 percent in January. That’s the
fastest pace since October 2008 and more than twice the central
bank’s 2 percent target.  “Pricing pressures have shown no sign of easing,” the CBI
said. “Firms continue to predict sharp rises in output prices
over the coming quarter, with expectations now almost matching
their last peak in mid-2008.”  A gauge of monthly export orders slipped to 5 in March from
11 in February, and a measure of stocks declined to 5 from 9,
the CBI said. The index on the volume of output for the next
three months rose to 27 from 23, the highest since February
2007.  “Total order positions picked up markedly this month,
rising above normal for the first time in three years, serving
to boost expectations for output growth further,” the lobby
group said. “In contrast, export order books eased slightly,
although remain strong by historical comparison.”  The CBI conducted the survey from Feb. 25 to March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  