-- 
U.K. Inflation Accelerates More Than Forecast to Fastest Pace in Two Years

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-22T11:52:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/u-k-inflation-accelerates-more-than-forecast-to-fastest-pace-in-two-years.html
U.K. inflation accelerated more
than economists forecast in February to the fastest pace in more
than two years, adding pressure on the Bank of England to
increase its benchmark interest rate.  Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent from a year earlier after
a 4 percent increase in January, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in London. That’s the most since October
2008. The median forecast of 32 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was 4.2 percent. A separate report showed the budget
deficit unexpectedly widened as government revenue fell.  Strengthening price pressures pushed three of the bank’s
nine policy makers to argue this month for higher  interest rates 
to tame inflation, which is now more than double their 2 percent
target. The U.K.’s recovery may still be hampered by the
government’s budget squeeze, while officials must also weigh the
potential impact on the global economy of the earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan .  “Inflation is only headed one way in the coming months and
we see it getting very close to 5 percent,” said  Hetal Mehta ,
an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe . “There is so much
uncertainty, not least because of the quake in Japan, the bank
will want to wait. It’s a close call, but May would be a bit
early for a rate increase.”  Pound Climbs  The pound jumped as much as 0.4 percent against the dollar
after the data were published. It traded at $1.6387 as of 11:48
a.m. in London, up 0.5 percent on the day. Bonds fell, with the
yield on the 10-year gilt rising 9 basis points to 3.61 percent.  “It goes without saying” that Prime Minister  David
Cameron  has confidence in central bank Governor  Mervyn King ,
Steve Field, Cameron’s spokesman, told reporters in  London 
today. “One of the reasons we are seeing high inflation at the
moment is because of what’s happening to global commodity
prices.”  The gain in inflation was led by clothing prices and the
costs of housing services such as heating, the statistics office
said. Clothes prices jumped an annual 2.8 percent in February,
the most since the data began in 1997. Costs for housing, water,
electricity, gas and other fuels were up 3.1 percent on the
year, the most since August 2009.  From the previous month, consumer prices rose 0.7 percent.  So-called  core inflation , which excludes costs of energy,
alcohol, food and tobacco, rose an annual 3.4 percent after a 3
percent increase in January.  Retail Prices  Retail-price inflation, a measure of the cost of living
used in wage negotiations, accelerated to 5.5 percent in
February from 5.1 percent the previous month. That’s the fastest
since July 1991. On the month, prices by that measure increased
1 percent. Excluding mortgage costs, retail-price inflation was
also 5.5 percent.  Crude  oil prices  have risen about 40 percent in the last
six months and remained above $100 a barrel today. U.K.
inflation was also boosted after Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  raised the sales-tax rate to 20 percent in
January to tackle the record  budget deficit . He told the  BBC  on
March 20 he may delay a planned increase in fuel duty to help
motorists cope with rising oil prices.  Britain’s budget deficit unexpectedly widened in February
as government revenue fell, a separate report today showed,
underlining the pressure on Osborne to stick to his fiscal
tightening plan. He will announce his budget for the fiscal year
through March 2012 tomorrow.  Government Borrowing  Net borrowing was 11.8 billion pounds ($19.3 billion),
compared with 9.5 billion pounds a year earlier. The median
forecast of 13 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a
reading of 7.2 billion pounds. Government income fell 0.9
percent and spending rose 4.6 percent.  The  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee held its
benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent this
month and its bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds. Minutes
of the decision to be published tomorrow will show if other
officials joined a push for an increase by three officials
including Chief Economist Spencer Dale.  Investors have pared bets on the timing of the next
increase after the earthquake, tsunami and radiation leaks in
Japan, the world’s third-largest economy. Forward contracts on
the sterling overnight interbank average showed yesterday the
first 25 basis-point increase will be in August. That compares
with bets on March 9 for a June increase, according to the data,
compiled by Tullett Prebon Plc.  Accelerating inflation may also damp the U.K. recovery by
eroding consumers’ spending power. Markit Economics said
yesterday a gauge of Britons’ finances fell 35.2 this month, the
lowest since March, compared with 35.6 in February.  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  said Feb. 28 it’s seen a
“noticeable slowing down” of U.K. demand at its Primark
clothing stores this year.  “People are thinking they want to be more careful now,”
Finance Director John Bason said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  