-- 
U.K. Faces Housing Shortfall of About 1 Million by 2015, Savills Estimates

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-03-22T13:26:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/u-k-faces-housing-shortfall-of-about-1-million-by-2015-savills-estimates.html
The U.K. faces a housing shortage
of about 1 million homes by 2015, with  London  worst hit, as
construction fails to keep pace with the growing population in
the south of England,  Savills Plc (SVS)  said.  The shortfall was about 344,000 homes last year, the U.K.’s
largest property broker said today. At the peak of the last
housing boom in 2006, demand outstripped supply by an additional
60,000 homes each year. That number will increase to as much as
150,000 this year, Savills estimates.  “It’s the usual conundrum that with economic growth comes
a growth in people,” Yolande Barnes, head of residential
research at London-based Savills, said in an interview. “It’s
the areas of highest  population growth , so London and the South
rather than the Midlands and the North that are the most hard-
pressed.”  The amount of homes built in England and  Wales  last year
was the lowest during peace time since 1924, a Department of
Communities and Local Government spokesman said by e-mail.  A lack of homes for sale underpins prices even as banks
curb lending and the economic recovery is exposed to the biggest
budget squeeze since World War II.  House prices  rose 0.3 percent
in February, Acadametrics Ltd. reported on March 11. Banks
approved 45,723 mortgages in January, about half the average
over the last decade.  ‘Serious Gap’  The U.K. needs to build more homes to avoid a crisis, Nick Pearce, a director for the Institute for Public Policy Research,
said in a report last week. “Whether the economy performs well
or poorly, a serious gap looms between supply and demand.”  England  faces a shortfall of 750,000 homes by 2025, the
London-based organization said. London is expected to account
for 43 percent of that.  The government is offering town and city councils, which
face average budget cuts of 4.4 percent, incentives to approve
more housing plans. They include the New Home Bonus, which will
match council-tax payments for new homes in their districts for
six years.  “The government has introduced a wide package of reforms
designed to boost house building, including reform to the
planning system,” the government department spokesman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 