-- 
U.S. F-15E Crew Rescued in Libya After Crash Near Benghazi

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-22T21:15:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/u-s-f-15e-crew-rescued-in-libya-after-crash-near-benghazi-5-.html
Both crew members of a U.S.  F-15E
Strike Eagle  fighter jet were rescued after the plane crashed in
eastern  Libya , the operational commander of the allied attack on
Libya said today.  The crew ejected safely after the plane suffered “an
equipment malfunction” at about 10:30 p.m. Central European
Time yesterday, said U.S. Admiral  Samuel Locklear , who spoke to
reporters at the Pentagon by telephone from his command ship in
the Mediterranean Sea.  The aircraft had been on a mission to attack Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi ’s “missile capabilities,” Locklear said.  One crew member was rescued by coalition forces, while the
other “was recovered by the people of Libya” and turned over
to the United States, Locklear said.  V-22 Ospreys made by Bell Helicopter Textron and  Boeing
Co. (BA) , flown off the USS Kearsarge by pilots of the 26th Marine
Expeditionary Unit, participated in the pilot recovery, marine
Corps spokesman Captain Richard Ulsh said in an e-mail. CH-53E
Super Sea Stallion helicopters made by  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX) ’s Sikorsky unit also took part, he said.  The accident marked the first crash of an F-15E aircraft
since July 18, 2009, when one of the Boeing Co.-made planes
crashed in Afghanistan. Both the pilot and navigator died.  All F-15A through F-15D variants were grounded for several
months after a Missouri Air National Guard F-15C fighter
disintegrated in the air in November 2007. That accident was
caused by a cracked longeron, a structure that helps hold the
fuselage together.  Improvements Planned  The U.S.  Air Force  has more than 220 F-15E Strike Eagles, a
version designed for both air-to-air and air-to-ground attacks.
The plane’s avionics and electronics systems allow it to fly at
low altitude in all types of weather, according to an Air Force
fact sheet.  The Air Force bought its last five F-15E jets in 2001 for
an average price of $79.24 million each.  Boeing still produces the F-15E for export and jointly
produces the F-15K Slam Eagle variant with  South Korea .  The crew safely ejected from the F-15E over Libya using the
Advanced Concept Ejection Seat II made by  Goodrich Corp. (GR) , based
in Charlotte, North Carolina. The seats cost more than $1
million each.  The Air Force plans on spending $1.6 billion over the next
five years to buy new radars for its fleet of F-15 jets,
including $816 million for radar upgrades on 86 F-15E variants.
The radars are made by  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  of Waltham, Massachusetts.  President Told  While Boeing was the prime contractor on the F-15E, Pratt &
Whitney made the engines and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  provided the
plane’s electronic countermeasure sets.  The Air Force has spent about $27 billion to buy more than
1,100 F-15 aircraft of all variants since the early 1970s. Some
of the older planes are being replaced by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
F-22 Raptors and F-35 Joint Strike Fighters.  President Barack Obama was told last night in Chile “that
a U.S. plane was down,”  Ben Rhodes , the White House deputy
national security adviser for strategic communications, told
reporters traveling with Obama on Air Force One.  White House Chief of Staff William Daley, accompanying
Obama at a state dinner, remained in contact with national
security adviser Tom Donilon and informed Obama about
developments, Rhodes said.  After Obama returned to his hotel, Admiral Mike Mullen,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, spoke with Obama and told
him of the Pentagon’s assessment that both pilots were safe,
Rhodes said.  The plane crashed in a field near Benghazi, Britain’s Daily
Telegraph newspaper reported on its  website , without saying
where it got the information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  