-- 
U.S. 5-Year Yields Touch Week High on Eased Geopolitical Concern

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-03-22T21:06:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/u-s-5-year-treasuries-decline-after-stocks-rise-safe-haven-demand-eases.html
Treasury five-year note yields
reached a one-week high on eased concern  Japan ’s nuclear reactor
crisis and  Libya ’s military conflict will threaten the global
economic recovery.   Yields rose for a fourth day in the longest stretch of
gains in more than a month as operators of the nuclear power
plant crippled by Japan’s worst earthquake on record moved
closer to restoring power to cooling pumps. U.S. Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  said the intensity of the military
campaign in Libya will ebb soon.  “The subsiding of the acute fears coming from abroad has
contributed to the cheapening of Treasuries,” said  Ian Lyngen ,
a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There are still risks associated with
the uncertainty in Japan and questions of what it means for
economic growth, which has put a ceiling on how high yields can
go for the time being.”  Five-year yields rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 2.03 percent at 5:01 p.m. in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the 2.125 percent
security maturing in February 2016 fell 1/32, or 31 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 13/32.  The yields earlier increased five basis points to 2.08
percent, the highest level since March 10. Benchmark 10-year
note yields were little changed at 3.33 percent.  Japan’s stocks rallied as fears of a nuclear meltdown
receded after Tokyo Electric Power Co. said it expects to
restore power to parts of the building housing the most damaged
nuclear reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  Allied Irish  Allied Irish Banks Plc, a state-controlled lender, denied
speculation it’s planning to miss a bond interest payment as
yields on government two-year notes soared.  “Extreme risk aversion has been ebbing since last week,”
said Bulent Baygun, head of interest-rate strategy in New York
at BNP Paribas SA, one of the 20 primary dealers that trade
directly with the  Federal Reserve . “The European story is in
the background of the rates market right now.”  Dallas Fed President Richard W. Fisher said no additional
monetary stimulus will be needed after debt purchases are
completed in June.  Fisher, who votes on monetary policy this year, said in a
speech in  Frankfurt  that he would have voted against the Fed’s
plan to buy $600 billion of debt if he had a vote last year. The
central bank bought today $7.6 billion of debt maturing from
September 2016 to February 2018.  Fisher on Stimulus  No additional monetary stimulus is necessary, Fisher said,
after the Fed completes its second round of quantitative easing,
or QE2, which followed an earlier round of $1.7 trillion of
purchases that ended a year ago.  U.S. economic reports this week forecast to show the
recovery is gaining momentum encouraged analysts who say
Treasuries will fall.  New home sales increased 2.1 percent in February from the
previous month, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey before the Commerce Department’s report tomorrow.
Orders for durable goods advanced for a second month, a separate
survey showed before the department issues figures March 24.  “Rates should be significantly higher given the
improvement in the domestic economic story, but there are a lot
of exogenous shocks that are still wearing off,” said Larry Milstein, managing director of government and agency debt
trading in New York at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income
broker and dealer for institutional investors.  Break-Even Rate  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices known as the break-even rate,
has widened to 2.39 percentage points from 1.91 percentage
points six months ago.  The 10-year yield will advance to 3.92 percent by year-
end, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of banks and securities companies, with the most recent
forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  Treasuries rose last week on demand for the relative safety
of  U.S. government debt  as concern Japan’s nuclear crisis may
hurt the world’s third-biggest economy and armed conflict in
Libya roiled financial markets around the world.  Losses from Japan’s record earthquake and ensuing tsunami
may total $200 billion to $300 billion, according to  Risk
Management Solutions Inc ., which advises insurers and is based
in  Newark ,  California .  Strikes against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces are
consistent with the United Nations Security Council resolution
on protecting civilians, Gates said at a press conference in
Moscow today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  