-- 
U.S. Commercial Property Prices Fell for Second Straight Month in January

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-03-22T14:47:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/u-s-commercial-property-prices-fell-for-second-straight-month-in-january.html
U.S. commercial property prices
slipped for the second straight month in January, as distressed
real estate sales weighed on values, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  The Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price  Index  slumped
1.2 percent from the previous month and 4.3 percent from a year
earlier. It’s up 4.2 percent from an eight-year low in August,
Moody’s said in a statement today.  The U.S. economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, helping boost demand for office, retail and
industrial space and apartments. Price increases are being held
back by the number of distressed properties on the market, said
Christopher Cornell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in
West Chester, Pennsylvania.  “Choppiness in the CPPI is starting to subside as the
bottoming process” that started in the fourth quarter of 2009
continues, Tad Philipp, director of commercial real estate
research at Moody’s, said in the statement. “However, some
choppiness will remain as the share of distressed transactions
continues to be elevated.”  During the commercial real estate boom, many investors
bought property with high levels of debt. The recession led to
rising vacancies and falling values, making it difficult for
landlords to refinance. The delinquency rate on loans packaged
and sold in commercial mortgage-backed securities rose to a
record 9.2 percent in February, according to a March 15 report
by Moody’s.  ‘Slack in Supply’  “Most demand drivers for commercial real estate have
reached bottom, including office-using employment,” Cornell
said in a telephone interview before the report was issued.
“The underlying demand for commercial real estate has begun its
turnaround, but you’re not going to see much price appreciation
until the slack in supply is taken up.”  Investors are becoming more confident about buying
commercial property as the economy grows, according to a survey
conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s New York-based unit.  “Signs of recovery are boosting optimism among owners and
buyers for 2011,” said the report released yesterday. “The
pace at which the U.S. economy is improving, however, has been
slow and uneven at best.”  Investment-Grade Properties  Prices for investment-grade properties in the U.S. fell 1.1
percent in January from the previous month,  CoStar Group Inc ., a
real estate data service based in Washington, said March 9.
 Values  were up 11 percent from January 2010 and down 33 percent
from the peak in June 2007, according to the company.  CoStar, unlike Moody’s, tracks transactions of less than
$2.5 million. CoStar also limits its index to class A and B
offices, the highest-quality buildings; retail and industrial
properties built since 1990; and multifamily buildings of 30
units or more.  Commercial property values rose 1 percent in February
compared with the previous month and 20 percent from a year
earlier,  Green Street Advisors , a real estate research company
in Newport Beach, California, said March 4. Prices are down 17
percent from the August 2007 peak.  Green Street’s index includes deals that are in negotiation
or under contract, while Moody’s tracks completed sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  