-- 
U.S. Facing Loss of Key Ally Against Al-Qaeda Group in Yemen

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-03-22T15:24:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/u-s-may-lose-key-ally-against-al-qaeda-as-yemeni-president-faces-revolt.html
President  Barack Obama  is on the
verge of losing a key ally in the fight against al-Qaeda, as
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh attempted today to set
conditions for quitting in the face of a popular uprising and
defections among his ruling elite.  “It’s clear at this point that Saleh will have to step
down,” Barbara Bodine, a former U.S. ambassador to Yemen, said
in an interview yesterday. With the “mounting numbers of senior
people in his administration resigning, we know it’s over. The
terms of his departure, I think, are still being negotiated.”  The March 18 killing of at least 46 protesters allegedly by
police and pro-regime gunmen -- which drew condemnation from
Obama and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and prompted the
defection of key military, tribal and government officials --
may well be the tipping point.  Obama’s counterterrorism chief,  John Brennan , told Saleh in
a telephone call March 20 “that kind of violence is
unacceptable,”  Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national security
adviser for strategic communications, said aboard Air Force One
yesterday.  “There’s clearly going to have to be a political solution
in Yemen that includes a government that is more responsive to
the Yemeni people,” Rhodes said.  ‘Leave, Leave’  In an address on state television today, Saleh told
defecting generals that they risk dragging the country into a
“bloody civil war,” and signaled his terms for leaving office.
The president is “ready to leave power by the end of the year
after a new government based on parliamentary election is
formed,” his press secretary, Ahmed al-Sufi, said in a phone
interview today.  Demonstrators at Taghyeer Square in Sana’a, the site of the
shootings, today resumed calls for an immediate end to Saleh’s
three-decade rule. “Leave, leave!” thousands chanted.  The course of events for Saleh may largely depend on the
loyalty of people in the security forces, said Gregory Johnsen,
a Yemen expert at  Princeton University  in  New Jersey .  “If President Saleh steps down, it’ll all go over
peacefully,” he said. “If he attempts to fight this, then it
could get very, very bloody.”  Saleh has been struggling to hang on since demonstrations
inspired by those in Egypt and  Tunisia  began two months ago. The
government deployed tanks yesterday to protect the presidential
palace.  ‘It’s Hopeless’  Until last week, there was a “fading hope that somehow
Saleh could reach an accommodation with the opposition,” said
 David Newton , another former U.S. ambassador to Yemen, which the
United Nations ranks as  the poorest Arab country .  “Friday really tore it,” said Newton, now a scholar at
the  Middle East Institute  in  Washington , referring to the
shootings. “He’s going. It’s hopeless.”  Saleh’s departure is likely to undermine, at least
temporarily, U.S. counterterrorism efforts, Yemen experts said.
Saleh has been an important ally in the fight against al-Qaeda
in the Arabian Peninsula, the Yemen-based group responsible for
sending two parcel bombs to U.S. synagogues in October and the
attempted bombing of a Detroit-bound plane on Christmas Day
2009.  Because of Saleh’s cooperation, the Obama administration
“has been reluctant to be too critical” in its comments, said
Christopher Boucek, a Yemen analyst at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace in Washington.  ‘Urgent Concern’  Clinton, on a visit to Yemen in January, said that Yemen-
based terrorists are an “urgent concern” for the U.S.  Yemen ,
which gets about $300 million a year in U.S. security and
humanitarian assistance, stepped up operations against al-Qaeda
after the attempted Detroit attack.  Last week’s deadly violence, the worst in two months of
protests, prompted the resignation of three ministers, members
of parliament, and at least three diplomats. Numerous top
military officials declared support for the opposition.  Saleh, who said security forces weren’t responsible, sacked
his cabinet, and prosecutors issued 10 arrest warrants in
connection with the deaths.  U.S. analysts said the White House will have to be nimble
in revamping in its Yemen policy.  “The hope is to come through a transition with at least
some cooperative measures still intact,” said Steven Simon, a
Middle East fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in
Washington.  Economic Problems  Yemen faces a failing economy, serious water shortages,
declining oil output and a society where more than half the
population of 23 million is under 20 years old and about 40
percent of the people live on the equivalent of less than $2 a
day.  “Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and fighting terrorism
is our biggest problem, but it’s not Yemen’s number-one
priority,” Boucek said.  The Yemeni government is struggling to quell two internal
revolts, a secessionist movement in the south and a Shiite
uprising in the north. Al-Qaeda’s Yemen-based wing has also
launched cross-border attacks on  Saudi Arabia , the world’s
largest oil exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  