-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall Amid Concern About European Debt, Oil’s Advance

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-03-22T20:58:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/u-s-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-before-manufacturing-report.html
U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for the first time in four
days, as oil rose amid unrest in  Libya  and concern grew that
 Europe  won’t find an immediate solution to its debt crisis.  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S. drugstore chain, sank 6.6
percent as profit margin fell short of analyst estimates.
 Carnival Corp. (CCL) , the world’s biggest cruise-line operator, lost
4.5 percent after forecasting profit that missed analyst
projections.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  rose 2.5 percent after Raymond
James & Associates raised its rating.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  added 4
percent as Credit Suisse Group AG lifted its recommendation.  The  S&P 500  retreated 0.4 percent to 1,293.77 at 4 p.m. in
 New York . The gauge had rallied 3.3 percent over the previous
three sessions. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  declined 17.90
points, or 0.2 percent, to 12,018.63 today.  “We had a number of black swan crises back to back, and
that’s always very disconcerting,”  Barton Biggs , who helps
oversee $1.4 billion as managing partner of Traxis Partners LP,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart
with  Carol Massar  and  Matt Miller .” “There’s still a couple
black swans flapping around out there, but unless you come up
with a dire scenario I think we’ll extend the rally.”  Peak  Biggs said the U.S. stock market will probably rise back to
its 2011 peak from February after the S&P 500 lost as much as
6.4 percent following Japan’s biggest earthquake and as Libya’s
Muammar Qaddafi attacked rebels seeking to end his 41 years as
the country’s ruler. U.S. stocks rallied yesterday as concern
eased that Japan will suffer a nuclear meltdown and after  AT&T
Inc. (T)  agreed to buy T-Mobile USA Inc. for $39 billion.  The S&P 500 today snapped a three-day winning streak, the
longest in about a month, as Irish notes slid and oil rose 1.6
percent to $104 a barrel. The slump in Irish notes came after EU
finance chiefs settled yesterday on how to enable a permanent
rescue fund to lend 500 billion euros ($712 billion) as of 2013,
while remaining divided over how to get the current stopgap fund
to its full capacity.  “The market is trading on the headlines,” said Tom Wirth,
senior investment officer for Chemung Canal Trust Co., which
manages $1.6 billion in Elmira, New York. “Things can change
from minute to minute. Whenever you get things that are unknown,
you start to price in higher risk. Of course, you want to buy at
the bottom when the fear is so prevalent in the market. The
economic recovery is strong. It’s just that there are too many
unknowns right now.”  Sustained Economic Growth  Global markets are signaling that sustained economic growth
will more than make up for  Japan ’s worst disaster since World
War II, rising commodity prices and uprisings throughout the
Middle East and northern Africa. Interest-rate derivatives, bond
sales by the riskiest borrowers and rebounding benchmark stock
indexes all show increasing confidence in the economy.  This year markets have contended with the ouster of
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, battles between forces loyal
to Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi and rebels, protests in Saudi
Arabia, Bahrain and Yemen, oil above $100 a barrel, record-high
food costs and a magnitude 9.0 earthquake in Japan that killed
more than 8,000 people and crippled a nuclear power plant.  “These events are not going to derail the global
expansion,” said  Hank Smith , chief investment officer at
Haverford Trust Co., which manages about $6.5 billion in Radnor,
 Pennsylvania . “I’m not sure the risk is over, but the fear of
it escalating and getting much worse is subsiding. The big
picture remains slightly in favor of equity investors. That is,
the economy is expanding, not contracting.”  More Confidence  Manufacturing strength from the U.S. to  Germany  and  China 
is giving economists more confidence that the recovery from the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression will continue.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecasts a global expansion of 4.8
percent this year, while JPMorgan calls for 4.4 percent. The
average over the past two decades is 3.4 percent.  Walgreen slumped 6.6 percent to $39.21. Gross margin, or
the percentage of sales left after the cost of goods sold, was
little changed at 28.8 percent in the second quarter, Walgreen
said. Analysts at Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc. estimated
gross margin would widen at the chain, which operates about
7,700 locations across the U.S. and filled one in five retail
prescriptions last quarter.  Carnival fell 4.5 percent to $39.16. The world’s biggest
cruise-line operator said it will have fiscal second-quarter
profit of 20 cents to 24 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had estimated 33 cents on average.  Sprint Rallies  Sprint rallied 2.5 percent to $4.47. The third-largest U.S.
mobile-phone carrier was raised to “strong buy” from
“outperform” at Raymond James.  Netflix gained 4 percent to $221.39. The mail-order and
online movie-rental service was raised to “outperform” from
“neutral” at Credit Suisse. The share-price estimate is $280.  BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. (BJ)  rose 5 percent, the most since
Feb. 3, to $48.84. Shareholder Leonard Green & Partners said
it’s examining an offer for the U.S. membership warehouse chain,
reviving its overtures after BJ’s began looking for suitors. [bn:WBTKR=MCP:US]   Molycorp Inc. [] surged 18 percent, the most since Dec. 6, to
$52.57. The owner of the world’s largest rare-earth deposit
outside China rose as mineral prices increased and concern about
the impact of Japan’s earthquake abated. Chief Executive Officer
Mark Smith said yesterday that rare earth prices were
“significantly higher” than anticipated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  