-- 
UBS, Credit Suisse Should Boost Capital Quickly, Finma Says

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-03-22T10:56:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/ubs-credit-suisse-should-boost-capital-quickly-regulator-says.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s biggest banks, should aim to build up capital
quickly in light of persistent market risks, the Swiss financial
regulator said today.  “We may be experiencing a period of relative calm in the
markets, but beneath the surface the currents are fast and
potentially dangerous,” Mark Branson, head of banking
supervision at the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority,
said at a press conference in Bern today. “That is why our
message to the large banks is not just ‘please start to think
about how you will meet the new capital standards by 2019,’ it
is ‘the faster the better.’”  The Swiss government proposed changes to banking laws to
require UBS and Credit Suisse to hold capital equal to at least
19 percent of assets, weighted according to risk, by 2019. That
compares with a 10.5 percent requirement set by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  for lenders worldwide.  UBS Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  has said the
stricter requirements may make some investment-banking
businesses in Switzerland uncompetitive compared with
international rivals.  “The magnitude of the changes will force a rethink,” said
Branson, who worked for UBS before joining Finma last year.
“Some lines of business may be too expensive in capital terms
to be attractive for major banks to pursue in future. That is
not an unintended consequence, it is a desired effect.”  Capital Surcharges  Branson also said that the international consensus among
regulators is moving in the direction of stricter rules for
systemically important banks.  “Several of my colleagues on the Basel committee have
referred to the Swiss proposals as a source of inspiration,” he
said. “Something will come and it will not be a token amount,”
Branson said of the additional requirements in other countries.  The Swiss government proposed raising the minimum common
equity requirement for UBS and Credit Suisse to 10 percent from
the 7 percent level set by the Basel committee.  Increasing the Basel requirement by 1 percentage point is
“just not worth it,” Branson said. “Certainly what’s being
talked about at the moment is more than that.”  The Basel committee has also accelerated its discussions on
whether to allow contingent convertible bonds to be used to
fulfill extra  reserve requirements  for the largest banks,
Branson said. It’s important for regulators to decide how these
bonds should be structured before the banks issue whatever suits
them, he said.  The Swiss regulator has no plans to conduct stress tests on
its banks at the same time as European authorities because it
already tests the banks every six months, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Bern at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  