-- 
Lush Landscapes by Poussin, Lorrain Star in Paris Show: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-03-22T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/lush-landscapes-by-poussin-lorrain-star-at-grand-palais-jorg-von-uthmann.html
Before Paris became the world
capital of the arts, young painters and sculptors flocked to
 Rome  to complete their training.  “Nature et Ideal,” a sumptuous exhibition at the  Grand
Palais  in Paris, focuses on the first half of the 17th century
when Rome was the center of a new trend -- landscape painting.  Landscape as an independent genre had emerged previously,
yet it was only around 1600 that it became fashionable.  Two schools vied for the new market: Flemish and Dutch
painters supplied collectors with realistic pictures whereas
Rome was the place for those who preferred decorative, idealized
landscapes inspired by the Italian countryside.  Only half of the 34 artists at the Grand Palais show, which
features 80 paintings and some 30 drawings, are Italian. The
rest came from  Germany , Flanders, Holland and  Spain . The two
stars, Nicolas Poussin (1594-1665) and Claude Gellee (1600-
1682), better known as Claude Lorrain, the man from Lorraine,
were French.  The show starts with a delicious riverscape by Annibale
Carracci (1560-1609). His “Flight Into  Egypt ,” another of his
famous canvases, though in the catalog, was prevented from
leaving  Italy  at the last moment because of quarrels among heirs
of the Doria Pamphilj family.  As it happens, Carracci’s masterpiece, the frescoes at the
French embassy in Rome, the  Palazzo Farnese , are, for the first
time in history, open to the public (through April 27).  Roamer’s Sketches  His pupil and assistant at the Palazzo Farnese,
“Domenichino” Zampieri (1581-1641) roamed the Campagna Romana
with a sketchbook. In his studio, he transformed the sketches
into picturesque paintings -- nature as it should have been, not
necessarily as it was.  Domenichino must have been quarrelsome. At Sant’Andrea
della Valle, the church dear to opera fans as the setting of Act
I in Puccini’s “Tosca,” he had noisy rows with his co-worker
Giovanni Lanfranco (1582-1647) who also has works in the
exhibition.  In Naples, the warfare between Domenichino and the local
artists got so nasty that he had to flee. One of his assistants
was killed.  The most versatile artist, Salvator Rosa (1615-1673), was
not only a painter. He also was admired as a poet, a musician
and an actor. The Romantics lionized him. Rosa’s landscapes are
theatrical and wild, sometimes macabre.  The second part of the show is dominated by Poussin’s and
Lorrain’s large canvases. They both spent most of their lives in
Rome, and they both had a tremendous influence on English
landscape gardening.  Heroes and Poets  Yet they were different.  Poussin had a more cerebral approach. His heroic landscapes
remind us that the reign of the Sun King was just around the
corner.  Lorrain’s landscapes are more poetic. His ideal was the
pastoral serenity of a Golden Age. So popular were his paintings
that -- to protect himself against fakes -- he recorded them in
the form of sketches in a “Liber Veritatis,” or Book of Truth.  “Nature et Ideal” runs through June 6 and then travels to
the  Prado  in  Madrid  where it will be on view from July 5 to
Sept. 25. Information:  http://www.rmn.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 