-- 
Vitesse Semiconductor SEC Settlement Is Approved by Judge

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-03-22T01:11:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/vitesse-semiconductor-sec-settlement-is-approved-by-judge-1-.html
Vitesse Semiconductor Corp. (VTSS) ’s
settlement of Securities and Exchange Commission allegations
that the company fraudulently inflated revenue and backdated
stock options was approved by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge  Jed S. Rakoff  in Manhattan today
approved proposed consent judgments between the company, two of
its former executives, and the SEC whereby the defendants
neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing. The Camarillo,
California-based chipmaker agreed to pay a $3 million penalty.  Rakoff said in his order that the SEC’s practice of
settling claims where the defendant is allowed to neither admit
nor deny the allegations is a disservice to the public.  “Here an agency of the United States is saying, in effect,
‘although we claim that these defendants have done terrible
things, they refuse to admit it and we do not propose to prove
it, but will simply resort to gagging their right to deny it,’”
the judge said.  Rakoff said that in this particular case that issue was
less significant because the two former executives, Yatin Mody
and Nicole Kaplan, have pleaded guilty in related criminal
proceedings and the company agreed to pay $3 million despite its
current financial difficulties.  The SEC filed the civil claims in December at the same time
federal prosecutors charged former Vitesse Chief Executive
Officer Louis Tomasetta and ex-Executive Vice President Eugene Hovanec with  securities fraud  stemming from an options-
backdating scheme. Tomasetta and Hovanec, who were named as
defendants in the SEC case, aren’t part of the SEC settlement.  ‘Rubber Stamps’  “Simultaneous with filing the complaint on December 10,
2010, the SEC, confident that the courts in this judicial
district were no more than rubber stamps, filed proposed consent
judgments against Vitesse, Mody, and Kaplan without so much as a
word of explanation as to why the court should approve these,”
Rakoff said in his order.  Ronda Grech, a Vitesse spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call to her office after regular business hours.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman in  Washington , didn’t
immediately return a phone call to his office after regular
business hours or respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is SEC v. Vitesse, 10-9239, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 