-- 
Walgreen Drops as Drugstore Chain's Profit Margin Falls Short of Estimates

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-03-22T20:18:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/walgreen-s-profit-increases-10-percent-aided-by-cold-flu-prescriptions.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S.
drugstore chain, dropped the most since December 2008 in New
York trading after second-quarter profit margin failed to
improve as some analysts anticipated.  The shares fell $2.76, or 6.6 percent, to $39.21 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Second-quarter
gross margin, or percentage of sales left after the cost of
goods sold, was little changed at 28.8 percent, the company said
in a statement.  Analysts at  Barclays Capital  and Citigroup expected gross
margin would widen at the chain, which operates about 7,700 U.S.
locations and filled one in five retail prescriptions last
quarter. Rising commodity costs, including fuel, led Walgreen to
adjust its accounting provision for the annual impact of
inflation on its inventory, resulting in a quarterly charge of
$56 million that hurt gross margin, said Wade Miquelon, chief
financial officer.  The Deerfield, Illinois-based drugstore chain may face
pressure ahead on Medicaid reimbursements from states strapped
by budget deficits, said Chief Executive Officer Greg Wasson, on
a conference call.  Walgreen also said today that second-quarter net income
rose to 80 cents a share, matching the average of estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  Second-quarter sales advanced 8.9 percent to $18.5 billion,
helped by its April acquisition of  Duane Reade , which operates
stores in the New York area. Net income rose 10 percent to $739
million in the period ended Feb. 28 from $669 million, or 68
cents a share, a year earlier.  The chain agreed this month to sell its pharmacy-benefit
management business for $525 million to focus on its store
network. Walgreen plans to complete the sale of the unit that
negotiates drug prices for corporate and government insurance
plans by June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  