-- 
Wells Fargo Sells 10-Year Notes After Increasing Dividends, Share Buybacks

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-03-22T20:05:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/wells-fargo-plans-debt-sale-after-increasing-dividend-buyback.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender, sold 10-year notes in dollars for the first time
since 2007 after announcing a special first-quarter dividend and
additional share buybacks.  The bank issued $2.5 billion of 4.6 percent bonds that
mature in April 2021 and yield 130 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The San Francisco-based lender last sold 10-year
notes in dollars in December 2007, issuing $3 billion of 5.625
percent securities, the data show.  Wells Fargo said last week that it will pay a 7-cent-a-
share special dividend in the first quarter and buy back an
additional 200 million shares after the Federal Reserve approved
its capital plan. The company, which slashed its dividend to 5
cents a share from 34 cents in May 2009, became one of the first
banks allowed by regulators to raise its payout after the Fed’s
latest round of tests on 19 of the U.S. largest lenders’ capital
strength.  “The stress tests did a lot to reassure the markets of
banks’ stability,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist and
economist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, said in an interview
at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York .  Debt Ratings  The new notes are expected to be rated A1 by Moody’s
Investors Service and one step higher at AA- by  Standard &
Poor’s , Bloomberg data show.  Credit-default swaps on Wells Fargo, which investors use to
hedge against losses on the company’s debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, have declined 16.4 basis points over the past
12 months to 81.5 basis points as of 1:20 p.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The average of contracts on Wells Fargo,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  has fallen 2.9 basis points, the data
show. Credit-default swaps decline as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Wells Fargo’s swaps are second lowest among the six biggest
banks. Only JPMorgan’s are lower, at 69.8 basis points. The
contracts on Wells Fargo have traded for less than those on most
of its peers because the company took on less risk than other
banks, said LeBas.  “They’ve had a very credit-conservative culture,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  