-- 
West African Must Prepare Ivory Coast Force, Crisis Group Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-03-22T16:07:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/west-african-must-prepare-ivory-coast-force-crisis-group-says.html
West African leaders must find ways
of ousting  Ivory Coast ’s Laurent Gbagbo to avoid a civil war,
and “ethnic cleansing and other mass atrocity crimes,” said
Louise Arbour, president of the  International Crisis Group .  At an upcoming meeting March 23 and 24 in the Nigerian
capital, Abuja, the  Economic Community of West African States 
should agree to mobilize military forces to protect civilians in
Ivory Coast, Arbour, former United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights, said in an open letter to Ecowas presidents today.
The regional body should also ask the UN Security Council to
consider military steps to protect civilians, she said.  “Daily attacks on civilians, including reports of forced
disappearances, rapes and torture, continue, and the death toll
far exceeds the UN’s confirmed count of 440 dead,” Arbour said,
according to an e-mailed copy of the letter.  Ivory Coast  “is no
longer on the brink of civil war; it has already begun.”  Ivory Coast, the world’s top cocoa producer, has been
wracked by violence between Gbagbo’s security forces and
supporters of  Alassane Ouattara , whom the UN and  African Union 
recognize as the winner of Nov. 28 elections, pushing the nation
closer to a repeat of its 2002 conflict, which gave rebels
control in the north.  Security forces last week shelled a market in Abidjan, the
commercial capital, killing as many as 30 people. Gbagbo called
on the population to mobilize to “fight the rebels.” Tens of
thousands of people have already fled Abidjan, according to
 Amnesty International .  The deteriorating situation now constitutes “a serious and
imminent threat to peace and security throughout West Africa,”
Arbour said.  Ecowas backs Ouattara and has called on Gbagbo to step
down. In December, it threatened military action to oust the
incumbent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 