-- 
Wisconsin Prosecutor Defends Judge's Order Blocking Law Curbing Unions

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-03-22T23:02:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/wisconsin-prosecutor-defends-judge-s-order-blocking-law-curbing-unions.html
A  Wisconsin  judge acted properly
when she temporarily blocked a law from taking effect that would
curb the ability of public employees to form unions and engage
in collective bargaining, a state prosecutor said.  Dane County District Attorney Ismael R. Ozanne defended
Judge Maryann Sumi’s March 18 temporary restraining order in a
filing today with a state appeals court in Madison, Wisconsin.  Ozanne sued four Republican state legislators on March 16,
alleging they had violated Wisconsin’s open meetings law when
they convened to craft the legislation that Governor  Scott Walker  signed on March 11.  “Nothing in the Open Meetings Law limits the authority of
a court, in the appropriate case, to enjoin publication of
legislation that results from a violation,” of that law, Ozanne
said in a court filing today.  The prosecutor’s submission comes in response to an appeal
of Sumi’s ruling yesterday by Wisconsin Attorney General J.B.
 Van Hollen . He argued that the judge had no jurisdiction to stop
a ministerial act by Secretary of State Douglas La Follette.  Sumi’s temporary restraining order blocked La Follette from
publishing the law, a step required to give it full force and
effect.  The appeals court had ordered Ozanne to reply by today to
Van Hollen’s challenge. By tomorrow he must respond to the
attorney general’s request for permission to appeal Sumi’s order
and for a temporary appellate order that would trump Sumi’s
ruling.  Bill Cosh, a spokesman for Van Hollen, declined to comment
comment on the prosecutor’s filing via e-mail.  The case is State of Wisconsin Ex Rel. Ozanne v.
Fitzgerald, 11cv1244,  Dane County , Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison). The appellate case is Ozanne v. Fitzgerald,
2011AP613-LV, Wisconsin Court of Appeals, District 4 (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Madison, Wisconsin, at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  