-- 
Women Hold Fewer Than a Third of Top News Media Jobs, Foundation Reports

-- B y   R o m a i n e   B o s t i c k
-- 
2011-03-22T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/women-hold-less-than-third-of-top-news-media-jobs-iwmf-says.html
Women represent less than one third
of the main decision makers at news companies worldwide as
gender inequality leaves top management and governance dominated
by males, the  International Women’s Media Foundation  said.  Women occupy about 27 percent of the leading managerial
jobs such as chief executive officer and about 26 percent of
governing board positions, according to a  survey  of 522
newspaper, radio and television companies by the Washington-
based advocacy group. Women hold 39 percent of the senior
management positions that include managing editor and bureau
chief, the two-year study released today shows.  Alexandra Wallace, vice president of NBC News, and Hu Shuli, editor-in-chief of  China ’s Caixin Media, are among
delegates attending a  conference  organized by IWMF in Washington
this week to examine gender barriers in the news business.  A so-called glass ceiling exists at companies in 20 of the
59 nations studied, mainly for senior jobs and in middle
management, which includes chief correspondents and design
directors, the IWMF said. The foundation, which surveyed 170,000
people, said it will discuss strategies to “level the playing
field” at the conference in  Washington  this week.  “Women in every region of the world still face many
barriers -- whether it is lower salaries than their male
counterparts or lack of access to decision-making jobs in the
newsroom,” IWMF Executive Director Liza Gross said in a
statement.  Women are close to reaching parity in news-gathering,
editing and writing jobs, representing 41 percent of those
positions, the study shows. Overall, women represent 35 percent
of the full-and part-time journalism workforce worldwide.  Eastern European Countries  Female media executives in the U.S. include New York Times
Co. President and CEO Janet Robinson and Radio One Inc. Chairman
Catherine Hughes. In the U.K., Rebekah Brooks is CEO of News
International, the unit that oversees  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s newspaper
titles in that country.  In the U.S., women hold about 23 percent of top-level
management jobs and 35 percent in governance. High levels of
equality were seen in Eastern European countries including
Russia and Bulgaria, as well as in Nordic nations Finland and
Sweden, the study shows. Areas with low representation of women
in the media include Argentina,  India ,  Japan  and  Kenya .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romaine Bostick in Washington at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at   kmiller@bloomberg.net . 