-- 
Xoma Says its Diabetes Drug Failed to Lower Blood Sugar

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-03-22T21:11:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/xoma-says-its-diabetes-drug-failed-to-lower-blood-sugar.html
Xoma Ltd. (XOMA) , an unprofitable 30-year-
old biotechnology company, said its experimental diabetes drug
failed to lower blood sugar of patients more than a placebo in a
clinical trial. Shares fell 35 percent in extended trading after
the announcement.  The study’s 421 diabetics received monthly injections of
Xoma-052 or a placebo for six months. While the Xoma drug helped
reduce blood sugar levels no more than a placebo, the primary
goal of the study, it cut levels of c-reactive protein, a
substance associated with the risk of a heart attack of stroke,
the Berkeley, California-based company said in a statement.  Levels of so-called good cholesterol also increased in two
groups of patients given the Xoma drug, the company said. The
results suggest the drug may be useful for treating  heart
disease  and  Behcet’s uveitis , which causes eye inflammation,
Chief Executive Officer Steven B. Engle said in the statement.
The company plans to expand clinical trials of the drug for
those purposes this year, he said.  “While this trial did not demonstrate glycemic
improvement, the potent anti-inflammatory effects and continued
positive safety profile reinforce our Phase 3 development
program for Behcet’s uveitis, which we anticipate starting this
year,” Engle said.  Xoma and Les Laboratoires Servier,  France ’s largest closely
held drugmaker, announced Jan. 4 they would jointly develop
Xoma-052 for diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Xoma retains
rights for the use of the drug against the eye disease.  Xoma declined $1.75 to $3.27 at 5:07 p.m. New York time in
extended trading after gaining 28 cents, or 5.9 percent, to
$5.02 at the close of the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 