-- 
Saleh Warns Yemen Rebels of Civil War, Vows Early Departure

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-03-22T14:47:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/yemen-protesters-renew-calls-for-saleh-ouster-as-army-vows-to-prevent-coup.html
Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh warned defecting generals that they risk dragging the
country into a “bloody civil war,” and signaled he’s ready to
quit this year if the uprising eases and elections are held.  In an address on state television, Saleh said military
commanders who have joined the protest movement against his
regime should “return to reason” and avoid opening divisions
within the army. The president is “ready to leave power by the
end of the year after a new government based on parliamentary
election is formed,” his press secretary, Ahmed al-Sufi, said
in a phone interview today.  Opposition efforts to oust Saleh, a U.S. ally against al-
Qaeda, have intensified since the March 18 crackdown against
protesters. At least 46 people were killed and scores injured in
the capital as police and snipers opened fire in the worst
violence since the unrest started two months ago. The wave of
regional protests has already driven longtime rulers from power
in Tunisia and  Egypt , and unleashed a civil war in  Libya .  Saleh’s position “looks increasingly weak as politicians
and party members continue to desert,” said David Hartwell, an
analyst with London-based IHS Global Insight, in an e-mailed
report. “Although a full-scale military crackdown has yet to be
implemented, the possibility of the president using the army
against protesters grows ever closer.”  ‘No Option’  Demonstrators at Taghyeer Square in Sana’a, the site of a
massacre by pro-regime gunmen four days ago, today resumed calls
for an immediate end to Saleh’s three-decade rule. “Leave,
leave!” thousands chanted. The internal revolt against the
president brought new defections, with ambassadors to Egypt and
the  Arab League  becoming the latest diplomats to join the
protest movement, according to Al Arabiya television.  “Saleh has no option but to leave now,” said Mohammed
Kahtan, the spokesman of the Joint Meeting Parties, a coalition
of six opposition groups. The president’s “talk of new
initiatives is out of the question after the blood that was
shed.” Kahtan said the opposition plans to march to the
presidential palace on March 25.  Talks with the opposition on a proposal involving Saleh’s
exit within 3 months were attempted, Sheikh Hussein al-Ahmar, a
prominent Yemeni tribal chief and former member of parliament,
told  Al-Jazeera  television in a telephone interview today. He
didn’t give details as who was behind the proposal, and
criticized Saleh’s warning of a possible civil war.  Army Defections  Al Jazeera also reported Saudi Arabian involvement in a
mediation effort based on holding early presidential elections,
without saying where it got the information. Saleh yesterday
sent Foreign Minister Abu Bakr Al-Qirbi to  Riyadh  with a message
for  King Abdullah , the official Saba news agency said.  The recent violence prompted senior military officers
including Ali Muhsin al-Ahmar, commander of the first armored
division, and Mohammed Ali Muhssein, commander of the eastern
region, to switch sides and led three ministers, dozens of
members of parliament and several diplomats to quit Saleh’s
regime.  Al-Ahmar told Al Jazeera today that he is not seeking to
topple Saleh’s regime. Like Saleh, he warned of the risk of
civil war if the army was divided or if officers sought to seize
power through a coup.  Special Forces  One officer and three soldiers were injured in a brief
clash between Yemen’s army and the Republican Guards, the
special forces led by Saleh’s son Ahmed, in the province of
Hadramout, Al Jazeera reported without giving details.  The Guards have been deployed outside the presidential
palace in Sana’a. Other army units have taken up positions
around key government buildings and bank offices in Sana’a and
the southern port city of Aden, without intervening against
protesters. The army said in a statement that it won’t permit a
“coup against democracy.”  Saleh said yesterday that those calling for “chaos,
violence, hatred and vandalism” are the minority and that most
people support the constitutional legitimacy of his government.  Since February, Saleh has repeated promises for a new
constitution, called for the formation of a unity  government
and said he won’t seek to extend his term when it expires in
2013. The opposition movement has dismissed those offers and
insists he must step down.  U.S. Money  The U.S. has backed Saleh with about $300 million a year of
military and economic aid.  Ben Rhodes , the U.S. deputy national
security adviser for strategic communications, said yesterday
that the country needs “a government that is more responsive to
the Yemeni people.”  Saleh’s government has been fighting insurgencies in the
north and south of the country, as well as carrying out actions
against al-Qaeda in line with U.S. demands. The conflict with
Shiite Muslim Houthis in the north has in the past drawn in
 Saudi Arabia , which last week sent troops to help suppress a
Shiite-led uprising in another neighbor, Bahrain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 