-- 
Yemen Parliament Backs State of Emergency as Saleh Agrees to Exit Proposal

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-03-23T15:52:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/yemeni-women-hold-vigil-as-military-defections-from-saleh-s-regime-mount.html
Yemen’s Ali Abdullah Saleh won
backing to enforce emergency rule from loyalists in parliament,
while agreeing to an opposition proposal to hand over power by
the end of the year.  The president accepted the plan drafted by a coalition of
six opposition parties, which asked him to set out a timeframe
for the handover of power, the state-run Saba news agency said.
It also asked him prosecute those responsible for the deaths and
injuries of dozens of protesters by pro-regime gunmen in the
capital, Sana’a.  Nobody who attended today’s debate voted against the
proposal for a 30-day state of emergency, called by Saleh on
March 18 after the killing. Ahmed Sufan, a lawmaker and former
deputy prime minister, was one of at least four to abstain,
saying the decision would carry “serious consequences.” About
130 members of the 301-seat parliament were present.  At least 46 people were killed and scores were injured last
week when police and snipers opened fire on a crowd of
demonstrators in the worst violence since the unrest in Yemen
started two months ago. The wave of regional protests has
already driven longtime rulers from power in Tunisia and  Egypt ,
and unleashed a civil war in  Libya .  Saleh’s calling of a parliament vote shows “he’s still
adhering to some gestures in the direction of democracy,” said
Gregory Johnsen, a Yemen expert at  Princeton University . “This
suggests he intends to hang around and survive the crisis.”  Calls to Quit  As legislators voted, thousands of protesters in Sana’a
were renewing their calls for Saleh to quit immediately. Dozens
of lawmakers have abandoned his ruling General People’s Congress
to protest last week’s violence, joining a list of defectors
that includes Cabinet ministers, diplomats and senior military
officers including Ali Muhsin al-Ahmar, commander of the first
armored division.  Under Yemen’s first state of emergency since a 1994 civil
war between the north and south, public protests and gatherings
are banned, the media is subject to restrictions, and the
constitution suspended.  The parliament’s endorsement of emergency rule is
“unconstitutional” since the number of lawmakers who voted was
below the legal limit, Aidarous al-Nakeeb, head of the
opposition socialist party bloc in parliament, said in an
interview on Al Jazeera television today. Johnsen said that more
than half of lawmakers must be present for a valid vote.  ‘Ready to Leave’  Efforts to oust Saleh, a U.S. ally against al-Qaeda, have
gained momentum since the March 18 violence.  In an address on state television yesterday, the president,
in power for more than 30 years, said that military officials
who have joined the protest movement should “return to
reason.” Saleh is “ready to leave power by the end of the year
after a new government based on a parliamentary election
is formed,” his press secretary, Ahmed al-Sufi, said.  The regime is “using the emergency to prolong its stay in
power,” Abdulmalik al-Mikhlafi, an opposition leader, said in a
telephone interview. “This will fuel the revolution and by the
end, the regime will fall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 