-- 
Yilmaz May Leave Turkey Rate Unchanged at Last Policy Meeting in Charge

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-03-22T09:34:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/yilmaz-may-leave-turkey-rate-unchanged-at-last-policy-meeting-in-charge.html
Durmus Yilmaz, who steps down as
governor of  Turkey ’s central bank next month, may leave the
benchmark interest rate at a historic low in his last meeting in
charge.  Yilmaz will hold the one-week repo rate at 6.25 percent at
tomorrow’s monetary policy committee meeting, which coincides
with his 64th birthday, according to all nine economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level since Turkey
began inflation targeting in 2002, and less than half the rate
when Yilmaz began his five-year term.  The central bank lowered the rate in December and January,
seeking to deter short-term capital inflows and weaken the lira,
as inflation slowed to a four-decade low of 4.9 percent in the
first month of 2011. It held the rate unchanged in February and
said rising energy and commodity prices pose “an additional
risk to inflation.”  “Global conditions have changed a lot” since the bank
began its cuts’ Yarkin Cebeci, an economist for JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in Istanbul, said in a telephone interview. “Inflation is
now a big worry for everyone.”  The central bank in January predicted year-end inflation of
5.9 percent. Higher  oil prices , driven by unrest in the Middle
East, are likely to drive that forecast higher when the bank
reviews its predictions next month, Yilmaz said Feb. 25.  ‘Lame Duck’  Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  said Jan. 27 that Turkey
won’t name a successor until Yilmaz’s term ends on April 18 to
avoid creating a “lame duck” governor. Whoever takes over will
inherit a policy mix that aims to weaken the lira through low
rates and limit domestic demand through higher  reserve
requirements  for banks.  A boom in consumer demand has swollen the current-account
deficit, which almost doubled in January from a year earlier,
and is leading to growth that is “not balanced,” Yilmaz said
this month. Turkey’s economy probably grew more than 8 percent
last year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The policy adopted by Yilmaz in the past three months aims
to restrain domestic demand by slowing credit growth. Consumer
loans have jumped about 40 percent in the past year, and Babacan
says a pace of 25 percent would be healthier.  The central bank has doubled to 12 percent the proportion
of short-term liabilities that banks must set aside, and stopped
paying interest on the money.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 