-- 
Mylan, Microsoft, Margaritaville: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-03-22T11:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/mylan-microsoft-margaritaville-intellectual-property.html
Mylan Inc. sued the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration, seeking to block  India ’s  Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) ’s exclusive rights to sell a generic version
of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s cholesterol pill Lipitor, the world’s best-
selling medicine.  Mylan and other generic-drug makers should be allowed to
enter the market as soon as Lipitor’s patent expires in June
because of manufacturing violations at two Ranbaxy factories in
India, Mylan said in a complaint filed March 18 in federal court
in  Washington . Ranbaxy, 64 percent owned by Tokyo-based Daiichi
Sankyo Co., fell the most in almost two years in Mumbai.  Ranbaxy has said it’s entitled to 180 days of marketing
exclusivity as a reward for being the first to challenge the
Lipitor patents. The drugmaker, based in Gurgaon near  New Delhi ,
reached an agreement with Pfizer in 2008 to sell copies of the
medicine beginning Nov. 30. The FDA has yet to clear any of the
generic competitors as equivalent to brand-name Lipitor.  “It’s the first time someone is openly challenging
Ranbaxy’s exclusivity for Lipitor,” said Bino Pathiparampil, a
Mumbai-based analyst at India Infoline Ltd. “It is
incrementally negative for sure” for Ranbaxy.  Ranbaxy declined to comment on the lawsuit in an e-mail
statement.  The six-month period of exclusivity could add as much as
$585 million to Ranbaxy’s sales, according to the median of four
analysts’ estimates taken before yesterday’s lawsuit. That would
make the generic version the biggest product in the Indian
drugmaker’s history. Ranbaxy had sales of 85.5 billion rupees
($1.9 billion) last year.  In its complaint, Mylan contends that Ranbaxy isn’t
eligible for that marketing exclusivity because of “false and
unreliable data” from its manufacturing site in Paonta Sahib,
India, used in Ranbaxy’s application for generic Lipitor.  “FDA’s indecision is depriving millions of Lipitor
patients access to lower-cost generic Lipitor,” Mylan, based in
Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, said in its complaint. It’s “costing
the public billions of dollars in savings, and costing generic
manufacturers billions of dollars in lost sales.”  Mylan wants a court to force the FDA to say publicly
whether Ranbaxy’s application “is tainted by Ranbaxy’s
misconduct” and that therefore the application must be denied
and the 180-day reward voided. A victory for Mylan would let it
enter the market in June, when some of the Lipitor patents
expire.  Ranbaxy is working with regulators to resolve outstanding
questions and is confident that it will get the FDA approval for
its copy this year, Chuck Caprariello, a company spokesman, said
in an interview last month.  Lipitor sales fell 6 percent to $10.7 billion last year as
generic competitors arrived in Spain and  Canada . New York-based
Pfizer’s product has been the world’s biggest-selling medicine
for the past 10 years.  The case is Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. U.S. Food and
Drug Administration, 11-566, U.S. District Court for the
District of Columbia (Washington).  Microsoft Seeks to Block Imports of Barnes & Noble’s Nook  Microsoft Corp. said it filed patent-infringement claims
yesterday against  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , seeking to block U.S.
imports of the Nook e-reader in the latest legal dispute over
the Android operating system.  Microsoft said it filed complaints with the U.S.
International Trade Commission in Washington and in federal
court in  Seattle  against Barnes & Noble and the Nook’s
manufacturers,  Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038)  and Inventec
Co. Ltd. after yearlong licensing talks failed.  The Nook uses  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, and
is infringing patents “that are essential to the user
experience,” Microsoft said in a statement. Microsoft, which
makes the rival Windows-based operating system, filed a
complaint in October against Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.
over Android-based smartphones.  “The Android platform infringes a number of Microsoft’s
patents, and companies manufacturing and shipping Android
devices must respect our intellectual property rights,”  Horacio Gutierrez , Microsoft’s deputy general counsel for intellectual
property and licensing, said in a statement.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft has created a patent-
licensing program just for Android device manufacturers,
Gutierrez said. HTC Corp., which makes phones for both the
Android and Windows systems, signed a license with Microsoft
last year.  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble,
declined to comment. The Nook is Barnes & Noble’s best-selling
product, and sales of the device last quarter drove the
company’s first increase in same-store sales since 2007.  Barnes & Noble, the largest U.S. bookstore chain, suspended
its dividend last month to invest in its digital unit as more
consumers shift to reading e-books.  Foxconn, based in Shenzhen in southern  China , is also the
world’s biggest contract maker of mobile phones. Inventec, based
in Taipei, also makes laptop computers.  In the civil suit, Microsoft claims infringement of five
patents and seeks cash compensation and a court order blocking
further use of the patented technology.  The disputed patents cover a control window for display
tabs that help users find information; get faster downloads of
Web pages; and select text and annotate it without changing the
underlying document, Microsoft said.  The suit mirrors claims made with the ITC, an independent
agency that has the power to block imports of products that
infringe U.S. patents. A copy of the ITC complaint wasn’t
immediately available.  Google, the world’s largest Internet search company, bought
start-up Android Inc. in 2005, bringing in co-founder  Andy Rubin , who currently spearheads Google’s Android efforts.
Rubin’s team developed Android as an open operating system,
which could be used and enhanced by anyone.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s second-biggest software company,
sued Google last year, claiming the Android system was developed
using the Java programming language Oracle obtained when it
bought Sun Microsystems Inc.  The civil case is Microsoft Corp. v. Barnes & Noble Inc.,
11cv343, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Washington (Seattle).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Jimmy Buffett’s Margaritaville Seeks ‘Tiger Blood’ Trademark  Margaritaville Enterprises LLC , the Florida company
associated with singer Jimmy Buffett, has applied to register
“Tiger Blood” as a trademark, according to the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  Two applications, filed March 12, are for the use of the
mark with energy drinks and vodka. The term has been used
frequently by actor Charlie Sheen  to refer to a tropical juice 
made by  Xango LLC  of Lehi, Utah.  A number of other applications were filed in early March to
register “Tiger Blood” as a trademark. Crebit LLC of Newton,
Pennsylvania, filed an application March 6 to register the term
for “Nutritional Supplements in liquid form and non-liquid form
that relieve or prevent fatigue.”  Harcos LLC of Santa Monica filed an application the next
day to use the term with dietary and nutritional supplements and
on March 8 Advanced Health Sciences of Richmond, Ohio, applied
to register the term for the same uses.  On that same day, a group of four applicants said they want
to register the term to be used for “beauty beverages.”
Several applications were filed by others that same week to use
the term on T-shirts and other clothing items.  The TMZ.com celebrity gossip site reports that Xango’s
makers are “very nervous” about any association with Sheen,
who was recently fired from  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s “Two and a Half Men”
television program.  Xango didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  City Of Hope Sues Morris Publishing Over Trademark  City of Hope , a cancer research hospital based in Duarte,
 California , sued a newspaper publisher for trademark
infringement.  Closely held Morris Publishing Group LLC of Augusta,
Georgia, is accused of infringing the “City of Hope” mark. The
hospital objects to a civic-journalism project of Morris
Publishing’s Florida Times-Union newspaper that is called “City
of Hope.”  According to the complaint filed in federal court in
Jacksonville, Florida, in addition to using the words “City of
Hope,” the stick figure that accompanies the words in the
newspaper project’s logo is similar to the images used by the
hospital.  The hospital says that while it “commends” the publishing
company and its Jacksonville newspaper for using “considerable
resources to further efforts to research educational issues and
find solutions,” the public is likely to be confused by the
name and logo similarity.  The publishing company has refused to change the name of
its project, according to a letter it sent the hospital that is
Included in the court filing. According to the letter, sent by
 Timothy E. Moses  of  Hull Barrett PC  of Augusta, the logos are
not the same, they don’t represent similar services, and they’re
used in different geographical areas.  People looking for City of Hope and information about
cancer research “would not spend two seconds” looking at the
newspaper’s City of Hope website, Moses said in the letter.  City of Hope asked the court to bar the newspaper’s use of
“City of Hope” and for an award of the newspaper’s profits
derived from the alleged infringement. Additionally, the
hospital asked for money damages, attorney fees and litigation
costs and for an order for the newspaper to provide and pay for
corrective advertisements.  The hospital is represented by  A. Graham Allen  and  Richard
S. Vermut  of  Rogers Towers PA  of Jacksonville, and Perry J.
Viscounty and Jennifer L. Barry of Los Angeles-based Latham &
Watkins LLP.  The case is City of Hope v. Morris Publishing Group LLC,
3:11-cv-00190-HLA-0MCR, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Florida (Jacksonville).  Apple Sues Amazon.com Over Use of ‘App Store’ Trademark  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sued  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , saying the online retailer
is improperly using Apple’s “App Store” trademark for a mobile
software developer program.  Apple, in a complaint filed March 18, accused Amazon.com of
trademark infringement and unfair competition and asked for a
court order to prevent the company from using the “App Store”
name as well as for unspecified damages.  Apple’s App Store offers software downloads by the company
and by third-party developers for users of its iPhones, iPods
and iPads. There have been more than 10 billion downloads
through the service since it was started in 2008, Apple said in
the complaint.  Amazon.com since January has started to solicit developers
for a future mobile software download service, Apple said.
Amazon.com has used “Amazon Appstore Developer Portal” and
“Amazon Appstore” in connection with this service, according
to the complaint.  Amazon.com representatives didn’t immediately return a call
for comment.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is attempting to block Apple’s registration
of “app store,” claiming in filings to the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office that the term is now too generic to be afforded
protection. In return, Apple has filed documents with the patent
office reminding Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft of its own
difficulties in trying to register “Windows,” a term opponents
also claimed was too generic.  The case against Amazon is Apple v. Amazon.com, 11-1327,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California.  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Winston & Strawn Adds O’Melveny’s Enzminger to IP Practice  Winston & Strawn LLP hired David Enzminger for its Los
Angeles IP practice, the Chicago-based firm said in a statement
yesterday.  Enzminger , a litigator, has represented clients from the
telecommunications, computer hardware and software and
manufacturing industries. In addition to patent litigation, he
has also handled trademark, trade secret and antitrust cases.  He joins Winston & Strawn from Los Angeles-based O’Melveny
 & Myers LLP .  Enzminger has an undergraduate degree from the University
of Redlands and a law degree from Arizona State University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  