-- 
Hyundai’s Chung to Sell Glovis Stake on Legal Fight, Group Says

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-03-22T09:43:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/hyundai-s-chung-to-sell-glovis-stake-on-legal-fight-group-says.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  Chairman  Chung Mong Koo  agreed to sell his $800 million stake in logistics
affiliate Glovis Co. ending a three-year legal battle, according
to a civic group that led lawsuits against him.  The automaker or its affiliates may buy Chung’s stake, Kang
Jeong Min, a research associate at Solidarity for Economic
Reform, said by phone from Seoul today. Hyundai Motor declined
to comment in an e-mailed response to questions. Chung owned 18
percent of Glovis as of March 4, according to Bloomberg data.  Glovis tumbled the most since May in Seoul trading on
concern that Hyundai,  South Korea ’s biggest carmaker, may pare
its use of the transport company following the sale. Chung in
February was ordered to pay compensation to Seoul-based Hyundai
Motor after a court ruled that he had unfairly helped affiliates
at the expense of the automaker.  “Investors seem to be worried that Chung’s exit may mean
waning importance for Glovis in Hyundai Motor Group,” said Song Jun Duk, a Samsung Securities Co. analyst in  Seoul . “But if the
stake goes to Hyundai Motor, I can’t see it will make much
difference.”  Chung, 73, agreed to sell the stake in a “reasonable”
period, the civic group said in a  statement  on its website
without elaboration. The billionaire owned 6.79 million shares
as of March 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
details of the sale haven’t yet been agreed upon, Kang said.  Corporate Governance   “Our goal was to improve corporate governance at
Hyundai,” he said. “The releasing of control of Glovis and of
future profits by Chairman Chung is certainly a penalty for him
and we see it as having a meaningful impact.”  Glovis, based in Seoul, dropped 7 percent to 132,000 won at
the 3 p.m. close of trading in the city. The benchmark Kospi
index gained 0.5 percent. Hyundai advanced 4.4 percent.  The Seoul Central District Court ordered Chung on Feb. 25
to pay Hyundai Motor 74.6 billion won ($67 million) for favoring
affiliates. The court dismissed a 1 trillion won claim from
minority shareholders working with the civic group.  Chung transferred 819,241 Glovis shares to Hyundai
following the February court ruling, the carmaker said in a
regulatory filing on March 4. Chung’s holdings in Hyundai Motor
and its affiliates are worth about $5.9 billion, including the
Glovis stake, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net 
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  