-- 
Zambia to Sell $500 Million of Eurobonds by August, Finance Minister Says

-- B y   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a
-- 
2011-03-22T21:27:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-22/zambia-eurobond-sale-cut-to-500-million-finance-minister-says.html
Zambia,  Africa ’s biggest copper
producer, said it will reduced the amount of a planned Eurobond
sale to $500 million from $1 billion after receiving a B+  credit
rating  from  Standard & Poor’s .  The southern African nation was given S&P’s fourth highest
non-investment grade rating, with a “stable” outlook today.
Zambia’s rating is the same as that for Angola, Nigeria and
 Paraguay . Fitch assigned a B+ rating on March 2.  “We expect to complete the $500 million Eurobond by at
least August this year,” Finance and National Planning Minister
 Situmbeko Musokotwane  said by phone from Lusaka today. “We
still have some work to be done though. This has all come as a
result of the good ratings we have received from international
institutions such as Fitch and Standard and Poor’s.”  The country has moderate government deficits that should
keep state debt lower than 30 percent of gross domestic product,
S&P said. Annual per capita income of only $1,300 and a closely
contested presidential election this year that may lead to
instability are constraints on the rating, the New York-based
S&P said in a statement.  Zambia doesn’t need to “do its own drum beating” because
internationally accepted organizations can ‘vouch’ for the
southern African country in a bid to attract international
investment for infrastructure rehabilitation and new
construction, Musokotwane said.  Economic Growth  Zambia’s economy expanded about 7.1 percent in 2010, up
from 6.4 percent in 2009, driven by increased mining output,
transport and agriculture, the  Central Statistics Office  said on
Dec. 30.  The nation could seek the “$500 million investment as
early as August,” Musokotwane said. “We don’t need $1 billion
anymore, at least not now.”  “Our Chinese partners that were going to contribute to our
$1 billion bond due to our power upgrade (electricity) are now
willing to use their own money in ventures such as our electric
expansion program,” Musokotwane said. “We were going to spend
lots of money on this, but now our partners such as the Chinese
are willing to partner with us or put up their own money
following our ratings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Mukwita in Lusaka via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  