-- Republican Governors Threaten to Leave Health Exchanges to U.S.
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2011-02-07T21:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-07/republican-governors-ask-obama-to-allow-deeper-cuts-in-health-care-costs.html
Republican governors said they may
ask the federal government to run the exchanges where residents
will buy medical insurance in 2014 under the new health-care
law, unless they’re given more flexibility.  Twenty-one Republicans sent a  letter  to Health and Human
Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius today asking that they be
given greater sway to set benefit rules, decide which insurers
are allowed to sell plans on their exchanges and force residents
who would otherwise be covered by Medicaid to buy their own
insurance.  The letter is the second time in as many months that
Republican governors have pressed the Obama administration to
alter the health-care overhaul signed in March, which is also
the subject of court challenges by states attorney general.  States are required to develop the exchanges and prepare
for more residents to participate in Medicaid, the health-care
program for the poor that will be expanded, with federal help,
to cover more of the uninsured.  The law “in its current form threatens to destroy our
budgets and perpetuate and magnify the most costly aspects of
our health-care system,” the letter says.  “While we hope for
your endorsement, if you do not agree, we will move forward with
our own efforts regardless and HHS should begin making plans to
run exchanges under its own auspices.”  Last month, the group asked the federal government to waive
rules that prevent them from cutting the number of residents who
now qualify for Medicaid. The governors said the rising cost of
the program will force them to cut other state programs as they
struggle to close budget shortfalls that have lingered in the
wake of the 18-month recession.    Jessica Santillo , a spokeswoman for the Health and Human
Services Department, said in an e-mail statement that the
administration has “made clear we will consider different
models that fit states’ needs” and that it looks “forward to
continuing to build a constructive partnership with governors
and state leaders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  