-- Duvalier Advised by Ex-Congressman Barr as He Seeks to Unlock Swiss Funds
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2011-01-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-22/duvalier-advised-by-ex-congressman-barr-as-he-seeks-to-unlock-swiss-funds.html
Bob Barr, a former U.S. congressman,
is advising Jean-Claude Duvalier as the Haitian ex-dictator
seeks to unlock frozen funds left in Swiss banks after he fled
to Paris exile amid a 1986 rebellion.  Duvalier “is very interested in trying to get those funds
freed up, not for himself, but so they can be used to help the
situation in Haiti,” Barr said by phone from Port-au-Prince
yesterday. Barr, 62, was a Republican representative from  Georgia  in 1995-2003 and ran for president in 2008 on the
Libertarian Party ticket.  Barr accompanied Duvalier Jan. 21 as the former dictator
made his first public comments since his Jan. 16 return to his
homeland from a 25-year exile. Also accompanying Duvalier were
 two other American lawyers , Ed Marger of Jasper, Georgia, and
Mike Puglise of Snellville, Georgia, according to a statement
issued by Barr’s office.  The 59-year-old Duvalier, also known as “Baby Doc,”
apologized to victims of abuses during his government, vowed to
help the quake-ravaged nation rebuild and said he expected to
face “persecution” upon his return. Haitian authorities opened
a corruption case against him two days after his return.  The former dictator said his desire to help  Haiti  rebuild
from last year’s quake that killed more than 300,000 “far
outweighs any harassment I could face,” according to a video of
his  speech posted  on the website of the daily Nouvelliste.  Charges Against Duvalier  Haitian authorities accused Duvalier of criminal
conspiracy, embezzlement and corruption, prosecutor Aristidas
Auguste told  Radio Metropole . Duvalier allegedly stole public
funds during his rule and hid them in Swiss bank accounts,
Enrico Monfrini, a Switzerland-based lawyer representing the
Haitian government, told Metropole.  A new Swiss law set to take effect Feb. 1 may allow
authorities to return to Haiti as much as $7.3 million frozen in
Duvalier’s accounts, said Jenny Piaget, a spokeswoman for the
Swiss foreign affairs department.  Duvalier’s 15-year rule began in 1971 when his father,
Francois Duvalier, known as “Papa Doc,” appointed him
president for life. The Duvaliers oversaw the killings of 20,000
to 30,000 civilians, many at the hands of the Tonton Macoutes
secret police, according to  Human Rights Watch .    Amnesty International , which has pressed for Duvalier to be
tried for crimes against humanity, said the corruption case is
“a positive step, but it is not enough,” according to a Jan.
18 statement.  When asked about the crimes against humanity charges, Barr,
who is advising Duvalier and not representing him as a lawyer,
said “allegations are the cheapest commodity on the market.”  Election Standoff  Duvalier returned amid a political standoff over disputed
presidential elections held Nov. 28 in which opposition accused
the ruling party of President Rene Preval of rigging the vote.  A second-round runoff vote set for Jan. 16 was postponed
after the  Organization of American States  recommended that
ruling party candidate Jude Celestin withdraw from the contest
to replace Preval based on an analysis by foreign observers.
Haiti’s electoral council is considering the report and hasn’t
reset a date for a runoff.  Barr, who led the push to impeach former U.S. president  Bill Clinton  in 1998, said Duvalier’s return is not political.  “I don’t sense that politics is part of his agenda at this
point,” Barr said.  Robert Pastor, who served as former President  Jimmy
Carter ’s national security adviser for Latin America, said in an
e-mail that it’s likely Duvalier’s motive for returning was
“reconstruction of his image, which was worse than Port-au-
Prince after the earthquake.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Granada, Nicaragua at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  