-- ‘End of Watch’ Earns $13.2 Million to End Box-Office Tie
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-09-24T20:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/-end-of-watch-house-at-the-end-tie-as-no-1-weekend-film.html
“End of Watch,” a police drama
from Open Road Films, collected $13.2 million in weekend box-
office sales in the U.S. and  Canada  to lead all other movies and
break a rare tie for first place.  “House at the End of the Street,” a horror film from
Relativity Media, collected $12.3 million, according to an e-
mailed statement today from Hollywood.com Box-Office, an
industry researcher. The two films initially tied for first
place with $13 million in revenue. “Trouble With the Curve,”
starring  Clint Eastwood , finished third with $12.2 million.  The No. 1 finish is a win for one of Hollywood’s smaller
distributors in a weekend when sales overall fell. “End of
Watch” is from Open Road Films, a joint venture of cinema
operators  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC)  and AMC Entertainment
Holdings Inc., while “House at the End of the Street” is from
Relativity Media LLC. Sales for the top 12 films declined 29
percent from the year-ago period.  “We’ve seen the trend over these last several weeks of
fairly tepid box-office results, and I guess this weekend kind
of continued that trend,” said  Paul Sweeney , a media analyst at
Bloomberg Industries.  “End of Watch” stars  Jake Gyllenhaal  and Michael Pena as
police officers assigned to patrol the most dangerous
neighborhoods of South Los Angeles. The hazards increase after
they run afoul of a particularly ruthless gang.  Haunted House  In “House at the End of the Street,” “The Hunger Games”
star  Jennifer Lawrence  plays a teen who learns too much about a
double homicide committed years earlier in the house next door.
Elisabeth Shue is featured as the girl’s mother. The film was
expected to take in $14.5 million, according to Box Office Mojo.  “It’s a younger demo, a male demo,” Sweeney said of the
target demographic for both films. “Those are always tough
demos to hit for Hollywood.”  “Trouble with the Curve” from  Warner Bros ., stars
Eastwood as aging professional baseball scout Gus Lobel, who
tries to keep his job while battling failing eyesight and a
trend toward computer-based scouting. His daughter, played by
 Amy Adams , tries to help by accompanying Lobel on an important
scouting trip. Justin Timberlake co-stars as a washed-up pitcher
who is attracted to the young woman.  Sales Forecast  The film was expected to generate $18.7 million in opening-
weekend sales, the estimate of  Box Office Mojo .  “It’s a modest disappointment,” Sweeney said. “Clint
Eastwood movies, while they may not always be blockbusters, tend
to play well over the next few weeks” after release.  Industry analysts have speculated whether Eastwood’s
appearance at the  Republican National Convention , in which he
conducted a “dialogue” with an empty chair, would influence
the public’s interest in his film, Sweeney said. A Pew Research
Center poll found that Eastwood’s appearance was the highlight
of the convention, ahead of Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney ’s acceptance speech.  “This is his first release after his performance at the
convention so investors I’ve spoken to were looking to see how
this might impact the opening,” Sweeney said.  Among returning films, “Finding Nemo 3D,” a re-release of
the 2003 animated hit, fell to fourth from second place, taking
in $9.6 million for  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  The film is the fifth
release in Disney’s plan to re-issue classic films in a three-
dimensional format.  ‘Resident Evil’  “Resident Evil: Retribution,” the fifth installment in
the zombie-invasion franchise, fell to fifth place from first
with $6.7 million in sales. The film stars Milla Jovovich as
Alice, a skilled warrior who battles zombies and the powerful
corporation that created them.  “Dredd,” an action film from  Lions Gate Entertainment
Corp. (LGF) , opened in sixth place with $6.3 million in sales. The
movie stars Karl Urban as Judge Dredd, a remorseless enforcer of
justice in a future America dominated by powerful criminals.
Olivia Thirlby co-stars as a rookie cop that Dredd is assigned
to train. The film follows Walt Disney Co.’s 1995 movie, “Judge
Dredd,” which starred  Sylvester Stallone .  “The Master,” director Paul Thomas Anderson’s tale of a
troubled World War II veteran who is ensnared by a cult, was
seventh with sales of $4.4 million.  The film, from Weinstein Co., stars Joaquin Phoenix as a
veteran struggling to adapt to peacetime life and Philip Seymour Hoffman as the charismatic leader of a spiritual movement. It
has attracted attention because of comparisons between Hoffman’s
character and Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell to $75 million
from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said. Domestic film
sales this year have risen 2.5 percent to $7.92 billion, with
attendance up 1.3 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Sept. 21 through Sept. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  