-- A Fragile Euro System Still Needs a Genuine Banking Union
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-23T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/a-fragile-euro-system-still-needs-a-genuine-banking-union.html
As recently as a couple of weeks
ago, it seemed that Europe’s governments had reached agreement
on the need for a banking union. This consensus, if it ever
existed, is unraveling, and that’s dangerous.  When  Mario Draghi , president of the  European Central Bank ,
announced his plan for a big, new euro-zone bond-buying program
this month, he rightly linked it to progress in building new
European institutions. Banking union belongs at the top of the
list.  The logic is simple. The euro area has a deeply integrated
financial system. It lacks a single bank regulator, a common
resolution agency for distressed banks and a deposit insurance
system that spans the currency zone. That’s what “banking union”
means.  At least, that’s what we thought it meant. Recently the
European Commission, the European Union’s executive arm,
published its bank-regulation  plan . It would give the ECB new
supervisory powers over the euro area’s 6,000 banks, which is
good. The other two elements of a banking union -- a single
system of bank resolution and an area-wide deposit insurance
system -- have apparently been set aside. Not so good.  Weak Compromise  Even the plan for a single supervisor looks like a weak
compromise. Under the commission’s plan, the ECB would work with
existing national supervisors, rather than absorb them into a
new supervisory unit under its control. That’s probably good
news for the regulators concerned -- more of them will keep
their jobs and status -- and also for the banks that have
invested much time and effort in getting friendly with those
regulators. It isn’t such good news if effective supervision is
the goal.  At first the hope was to win agreement on how a banking
union would operate by the end of this year and then put it in
place by the end of 2014. This now looks unlikely.  Germany  and
others say the plans are being rushed. Further complications
arise almost daily.  Wolfgang Schaeuble , Germany’s finance
minister, has called for new stress tests to be conducted on
banks across the euro area before supervisory powers are
reorganized. Supervision for EU countries that don’t use the
euro, such as  Poland ,  Sweden  and the U.K. is another bone of
contention.  More important, though, is the evaporation of plans for a
single system of resolution and deposit insurance. German
officials have objected to these proposals out of concern that
they would expose German taxpayers to new demands on their
pocketbooks. That fear, of course, is fully justified, although
the burden placed on German taxpayers wouldn’t necessarily be
disproportionate.  Banks in Germany are still fragile and  undercapitalized ,
just as in many other countries. And Germany has a lot to lose
if a bank run in  Spain , for instance, jeopardizes the euro
system and spreads financial panic throughout the euro area.  Resolution and deposit insurance could involve fiscal
outlays, though experience has shown that prompt and well-
conducted interventions would cost taxpayers nothing -- and
could even return a profit. Granted, euro-area countries need to
negotiate the terms of any such cooperation, a complex matter in
its own right. There are different ways of carrying out such a
plan, some more risky for taxpayers than others.  In the end, though, it comes down to this: If  Europe  can’t
accept the limited degree of fiscal union that includes a single
bank-resolution authority and a deposit-guarantee system, all
its talk of creating a true banking union is so much hot air.  Failure to act would be a grave error. A European banking
union is essential to break the connection between distressed
banks and sovereign insolvency. After all, that is the motor
driving Europe’s financial crisis. The pressure of events has
seemed to abate since Draghi announced his bond-buying plan. The
ECB has bought Europe some time. Governments should resolve to
use it, not waste it.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  GM must remain Government
Motors  awhile longer and on making  air conditioners more green ;
 Betsey Stevenson  and  Justin Wolfers  on  Mitt Romney and taxes ;
William D. Cohan on  JPMorgan’s missing $6 billion ;  Albert R.
Hunt  on the  best way to handle Iran ;  Jeff Rubin  on  the end of
growth ;  Luigi Zingales  on why  Romney would have done better than
Obama .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 