-- Ahmadinejad Says Iran Will Defend Itself From Any Attack
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-09-24T01:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/ahmadinejad-says-iran-will-defend-itself-from-potential-attack.html
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said in a U.S. television interview that his nation
will defend itself if attacked by  Israel .  “The response of  Iran  is quite clear, I don’t even need to
explain that,” Ahmadinejad said in an interview with CNN’s
Piers Morgan scheduled to be broadcast tonight, according to a
transcript. “Any nation has the right and will indeed defend
herself.”  Tensions between the nations are high as Iran pursues a
nuclear program that it says is for peaceful purposes, while the
U.S. and its allies say Iran may be hiding development of a
nuclear weapon. If Iran is attacked, it will respond both
against Israel and U.S. bases in the Persian Gulf region, said
General Amir Ali Hajizadeh, commander of the Revolutionary
Guards Corps aerospace force, according to the state-run Fars
news agency.  “We cannot imagine the Zionist regime initiating a war
without the U.S. backup,” he said yesterday on state-run Al-
Alam television, according to Fars. He warned such a conflict
could draw in other nations and become a “third world war.”
The top commander of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps said Sept.
22 that Israel would be “destroyed” if a war occurs.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has said the U.S.
should establish a “red line” for Iran’s nuclear activities
that would result in a military attack if crossed. President
 Barack Obama ’s administration has backed economic sanctions to
deter Iran’s nuclear ambitions.  “The Zionists are very much, very adventuresome, very much
seeking to fabricate things,” Ahmadinejad said, according to
CNN. “I think they see themselves at the end of the line, and I
do firmly believe that they seek to create new opportunities for
themselves and their adventurous behaviors.”  ‘Inflammatory Rhetoric’  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon met with
Ahmadinejad yesterday and warned about “the potentially harmful
consequences of inflammatory rhetoric, counter-rhetoric and
threats from various countries in the  Middle East ,” according
to a UN statement. Ahmadinejad’s anti-Semitic declarations from
the podium at the annual General Assembly regularly prompt
Western delegates to walk out of the hall in protest.  The Iranian leader said in an interview with Washington
Post columnist David Ignatius that Iran wants to continue
negotiations with world powers over its nuclear program and does
“not take very seriously” Israel’s threats. He also said he
doubts Americans want war with Iran.  “I don’t believe so,” he said. “I believe the people of
the U.S. are peace-loving people.”  After Election  Ahmadinejad didn’t indicate the prospect of new Iranian
concessions to meet the demands of world powers, such as
curtailing  uranium enrichment . He said the U.S. campaign season
is not the time to expect results.  “I do believe that some conversations and key issues must
be talked about again once we come out of the other end of the
political election atmosphere in the  United States ,” he said
according to a transcript.  CNN’s interview with the Iranian president covered issues
including the Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi,
 Libya , which killed American Ambassador Christopher Stevens. An
online video ridiculing the  Prophet Muhammad  has been cited as
fueling the attack.  Movie Controversy  “Any action that is provocative, offends the religious
thoughts and feelings of any people, we condemn,” Ahmadinejad
said on  CNN . “Likewise, we condemn any type of extremism. Of
course, what took place was ugly.”  Ahmadinejad said he hopes “the day will come in which
politicians will not seek to offend those whom others hold
holy.” He said “this must also be resolved in a humane
atmosphere, in a participatory environment and we do not like
anyone losing their lives or being killed for any reason
anywhere in the world.”  Morgan also pressed the Iranian president to explain his
views on homosexuality.  “Do you really believe that someone is born homosexual?”
Ahmadinejad asked the news anchor in response. “Let me ask you
this. Do you believe that anyone is giving birth through
homosexuality? Homosexuality ceases procreation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  