-- Alaska Sees Asia Driving Annual $20 Billion Via Pipeline
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-09-24T20:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/alaska-sees-asia-driving-annual-20-billion-via-pipeline.html
Alaska  wants a $50 billion pipeline
and export complex built to develop natural gas that’s stranded
on its icy North Slope. The justification:  Asia ’s swelling
appetite for the fuel.  Governor Sean Parnell gave  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and
ConocoPhillips to the end of this month to provide plans to pipe
the gas south and condense it into a liquid, known as LNG, for
export. Their joint venture would compete with growing global
supplies of LNG coming into markets within two decades from
 Australia , East Africa, the U.S. Gulf Coast and  Canada .  Energy explorers and Alaska’s government are trying for the
first time to market a resource that may generate as much as $20
billion in annual gas sales. Asian gas buyers as of July paid
almost six times the futures price in the U.S., where it has
been driven low by the shale boom.  “It’s gas in search of a market,”  Kevin Book , a managing
director with Washington-based ClearView Energy Partners, an
industry consulting group, said in an interview.  The explosion of output from U.S. shale squelched Alaska’s
long-held hopes to build a pipeline to the Lower 48 U.S. states,
Book said. “So the next most logical place to take it is to
liquefy it and ship it at significant price premiums to Japan,
 China  and throughout the Pacific Rim.”  Gas Imports  Asian demand will lead a 17 percent global increase in gas
demand by 2017 from 2011, the  International Energy Agency 
forecast in June. China’s annual gas consumption will more than
double to 273 billion cubic meters in the period, the IEA said.
Chinese gas consumption in 2017 would equal about 28 percent of
the reserves identified on Alaska’s North Slope.  The northernmost U.S. state is counting on oil for more
than 90 percent of the $8.44 billion in unrestricted general
fund revenue it expects to get in fiscal year 2013. Alaska may
have to consider gas imports to supply its population centers in
future years.  An 800-mile pipeline project from northern Alaska to a
southern port may cost $20 billion to $26 billion -- or about
three times as much as  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone pipeline
proposal to link Canada’s oil sands to the U.S. Gulf Coast,
according to a 2010 estimate of the Alaska project.  Industry estimates have pegged Alaska’s LNG total project
cost at $40 billion to $50 billion, factoring in a pipeline and
liquefaction plant. A Kitimat LNG project on Canada’s western
coast may cost about $15 billion, including a plant, pipeline
and wells, according to an estimate from  Apache Corp. (APA) , which is
working on the proposal with  Encana Corp. (ECA)  and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)   Export History  Alaska, the only U.S. state operating an LNG export plant,
is seeking to parlay its more than 40-year history of sending
fuel to Asia from ConocoPhillips’s terminal near Kenai into an
advantage for expanding shipments.  The state’s coast provides one of the closest routes to
Asian markets, potentially giving it lower shipping costs than
competing projects from western Canada,  Robert Brooks , founder
of  RBAC Inc. , an energy data company, said in an interview.  Alaska’s isolated location may help insulate it from
discussions about whether the U.S. should be exporting gas
pumped domestically, Larry Persily, federal coordinator for
Alaska gas-transportation projects, said in a phone interview.  “Sending Alaska gas overseas would not deprive
petrochemical companies or utilities in Milwaukee or Shreveport
of gas,” he said. “I think generally Alaska gas is absent from
those political debates.”  Asian Consumption  By 2025, the four largest consumers of LNG will be Japan,
China,  India  and  South Korea , according to a presentation by  BG
Group Plc. (BG/)  In 2011, the top four countries were Japan, South
Korea, U.K. and Spain, BG said. U.S. LNG imported by Japan
fetched $17.58 per million British thermal units in a period
ending in July, according to LNG Japan Corp. U.S. gas futures
averaged $2.963 per million Btus during the same month in  New
York .  At the same time, North American LNG developers are seeking
to escape a low-price U.S. gas market, where shale formations
flooded the market with supplies. Gas futures touched a 10-year
low in April of less than $2 per million British thermal units.  Exxon,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and BP, three of Alaska’s biggest oil
and gas producers, laid out plans to consider Alaska LNG in a
March 30  letter  to Governor Parnell. The North Slope holds more
than 35 trillion cubic feet of discovered gas, the companies
said. That’s nearly four times the U.K.’s estimated 9 trillion
cubic feet of proved gas reserves, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration.  ‘Unprecedented’ Capital  Unlocking the fuel through “unprecedented” capital
commitments for gas would require “competitive and stable
fiscal terms,” Exxon, ConocoPhillips and BP said in the March
letter. Exxon has outperformed its peers this year, gaining 8.4
percent in the period, while  the Dow Jones Oil & Gas Titans 30
Index  climbed 3.8 percent. ConocoPhillips rose 4.3 percent, and
BP lost 3.8 percent, in the year through Sept. 24.  The existing ConocoPhillips plant near Kenai is small by
today’s global standards, capable of processing 240 million
cubic feet of gas a day. Its exports diminished in recent years
as nearby gas fields played out, leaving the terminal’s future
in question.  A new LNG site may have a capacity of about 3 billion cubic
feet a day, said Kurt Gibson, director of the  Alaska Gas
Pipeline Project Office . That would generate about $20 billion
in annual sales, based on prices Japan paid for LNG as of July.  Exxon, BP and ConocoPhillips have said their assessment
will include potential pipeline capacities and routes, as well
as LNG terminal sites. Proposals may look at expanding the Kenai
facility or building a new terminal farther east at Valdez,
which already has a port used by large  oil tankers .  ‘Early Days’  It remains “early days” for a project, Tony Palmer, a
vice president for TransCanada, which is working with the
producers on an export plan, said in a telephone interview.  “Advancing a project of this scale and complexity is
extremely risky for the sponsors,” Palmer said. “It’s a
lengthy process. It’s a costly process.”  TransCanada continues to evaluate the LNG project with
producers, Palmer said. Exxon, ConocoPhillips and BP also said
they are continuing the examination.  Reviewing global trends in LNG will be part of the
assessment of a possible gas project, the companies told
Parnell. The soonest a new export project would begin is
probably post-2020, Asish Mohanty, a senior analyst of global
LNG at Wood Mackenzie in Houston, said in an interview.  Persily, the federal coordinator for Alaska gas-
transportation projects, has been watching the state’s efforts
to export gas since 1976 and has seen those plans repeatedly
frustrated.  “By the time Alaska gas could get there 10 years from now,
would there still be that attractive market, or are we always
coming up short, as we have for 40 years?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  