-- Americans Deserve Pre-emptive Debate on Iran Strike
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-09-23T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/americans-deserve-pre-emptive-debate-on-iran-strike.html
The last two U.S. presidents have
misled voters on the cost of armed conflicts. Amid another
election, the drumbeats of war are sounding again. This time the
subject is  Iran .  To paraphrase  Ronald Reagan : Here we go again.  There is a robust debate on the virtues and risks of trying
to take out Iran’s nuclear facilities. That discussion is taking
place in  Israel .  In the  U.S. presidential election ,  Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney  parry over who has the smartest strategy for ensuring
Iran doesn’t obtain the enriched uranium to develop a nuclear
weapon. Both candidates warn about the dangers of Iran becoming
a nuclear power.  There is almost no discussion on the costs of a strike to
take out that nuclear capacity -- be it by Israel or the U.S --
in lives, money and regional and global standing.  This follows two unsatisfactory experiences over the past
10 years. In 2003, President  George W. Bush  said the invasion of
Iraq was justified to remove  Saddam Hussein ’s weapons of mass
destruction. “It would not be that hard,” Vice President  Dick Cheney  assured Americans.  It was hard and costly, and the weapons proved not to
exist. More than 4,400 Americans were killed, and it cost more
than $800 billion, while Iraq remains unstable and the region’s
more lethal threat, Iran, is empowered.  Afghan Surge  Four years ago, Obama declared that instead of Iraq, he
would focus on the real problem:  Afghanistan . More than 1,500
Americans have died since then at a cost of least of $400
billion. That country seems as corrupt and unstable as ever.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  of Israel says a pre-
emptive strike against Iran is probably necessary and he resists
any pressure from the U.S. government to hold off.  Obama doesn’t believe the need for military action is
imminent. Romney, the Republican presidential candidate,
basically would give the Israelis a blank check.  Ten days ago, a high-level group of national-security
experts offered some answers to the questions about cost and
consequences that the candidates are avoiding. Called the  Iran
Project , the report was signed by more than 30 experts,
including prominent Republicans such as former Deputy Secretary
of State Richard Armitage and ex-Nebraska Senator Chuck Hagel.
Also included were leading Democrats such as former National
Security Adviser  Zbigniew Brzezinski  and former House Foreign
Relations Committee Chairman Lee Hamilton, as well as respected
diplomats such as Frank Wisner and Thomas Pickering who served
under Republican and Democratic administrations. The signatories
also include retired military leaders, General Anthony Zinni and
Admiral William Fallon, both former chiefs of the U.S. Central
Command, which covers the  Middle East . Zinni also was Bush’s
envoy to the region.  The Iran Project authors say flatly that “extended
military strikes by the U.S. alone or in concert with Israel
could destroy or severely damage the six most important nuclear
facilities in Iran.” An Israeli attack, they add, would delay
the operation by two years, while more sophisticated U.S.
capabilities would take it out for up to four years.  To prevent the Iranians from restarting, the report states
the U.S. would need to conduct a “significantly expanded air
and sea war over a prolonged period of time, likely several
years.”  If the goal is regime change that would probably require
the use of ground forces to occupy Iran. That would mean a
commitment of resources and personnel “greater than what the
U.S. has expended over the last 10 years in the Iraq and
Afghanistan wars combined.”  Proxy Retaliation  Whatever course is chosen, the experts conclude that an
attack on Iran would ensure retaliation. They anticipate efforts
to close the Strait of Hormuz for days or weeks, with global
economic implications, and asymmetrical attacks using surrogates
such as Hezbollah on U.S. facilities in the region and beyond.
Conceivably, it could set off a regional war.  The reaction on the Arab street, they suggest, would be
very negative for U.S. interests, and for countries in the
region such as  Egypt . Moreover, they worry that a strike would
strengthen, not weaken, the Iranian leaders’ somewhat tenuous
hold on their country.  Unlike in the U.S., there’s a very open debate about all
this in Israel, where a number of intelligence and military
officials have publicly opposed Netanyahu’s eagerness to strike.
The most compelling opponent is  Meir Dagan , who was the head of
intelligence and special operations for  Mossad  for more than
eight years.  In long  interviews  with the CBS television program “60
Minutes” and the  New Yorker  magazine, he enumerated the perils
of Netanyahu’s course. He says an Israeli strike would bolster
the Iranian regime, which he argues is failing in its push to
lead the Muslim world. In the interview with the New Yorker, he
said that while Iran resumed its nuclear project about seven
years ago, “the economic and diplomatic and covert pressure,
led by America, obviates the need for any attacks now.”  Still, the  Iran Project  authors acknowledge that for the
U.S. there are risks to any course of action. “The failure to
attack and the decision to attack both could have some negative
reputational consequences. The challenge then would be to
determine which of those consequences are most probable,
important and lasting.”  Romney and Obama owe it to the American people to address
that question over the next six weeks.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 