-- Manchester United Beats Liverpool; Man. City Ties With Arsenal
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-09-23T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/manchester-utd-beats-10-man-liverpool-2-1-in-premier-league.html
Manchester United won at Liverpool
yesterday for a first time in five seasons, although manager
 Alex Ferguson  called the performance “poor” after his team
struggled to overcome a 10-man team.  United rallied to beat the Reds 2-1 for its fourth straight
victory in English soccer’s Premier League this season, keeping
the Red Devils in second spot. Defending champion Manchester
City tied 1-1 against Arsenal.  “I thought we were poor, to be honest with you,” Ferguson
told MUTV. “I think the last four years we’ve allowed the crowd
to get to us a little bit, they give fantastic support to their
team and they really dominated the first half.”  Liverpool, which remains winless, played for more than half
the match with 10 men after Jonjo Shelvey was shown a straight
red card.  Steven Gerrard  put the hosts ahead in the opening
minute of the second half, before goals from Rafael  da Silva  and
 Robin van Persie , who scored with a penalty kick.  In yesterday’s other games, Tottenham beat Queens Park
Rangers 2-1, while Newcastle defeated Norwich City 1-0.  United moves to 12 points, one point behind league leader
Chelsea. Everton and West Bromwich Albion are two points further
back, with Arsenal, Fulham and City on nine points. Liverpool
remains 18th in the 20-team standings.  At Anfield, there were tributes before kick-off to the 96
fans who died in the 1989 Hillsborough disaster. Yesterday saw
Liverpool’s first home match since U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  apologized for injustices, cover-up and misinformation
by police surrounding the event.  Former United player Bobby Charlton presented flowers to
ex-Liverpool forward Ian Rush, while captains Gerrard and  Ryan Giggs  released 96 red balloons.  Suarez Handshake  Also, in the pre-game ceremony, Liverpool’s  Luis Suarez 
shook hands with United’s Patrice Evra. There’d been speculation
Suarez might not do so after serving a suspension for racially
abusing Evra last season.  Giggs had one of the first efforts in the match, but was
unable to get his shot from the edge of the area on target after
seven minutes. Moments later, Suarez forced Anders Lindegaard
into a save from a tight angle.  Two minutes later, Gerrard hit a shot just wide after
escaping his marker at a corner.  Liverpool’s chances of a first league win this season
appeared slim when Shelvey was red-carded on 39 minutes for a
foul on  Jonny Evans .  ‘Harsh Decision’  “I thought it was a very, very harsh decision and
throughout the game that’s how it went for us,” Liverpool
manager  Brendan Rodgers  told reporters.  It was still Liverpool that looked most like scoring before
the interval, Lindegaard forced to tip wide a free kick from
Suarez.  Liverpool was ahead soon after the restart, Gerrard firing
past Lindegaard. United leveled five minutes later when Da Silva
collected the ball just outside the penalty area and curled a
shot past Pepe Reina.  The hosts still pushed forward, with Suarez again testing
Lindegaard after 61 minutes. The goalkeeper tipped over from
substitute Suso four minutes later.  United was awarded a penalty when  Antonio Valencia  burst
into the box on 76 minutes, with referee Mark Halsey deciding
the winger was fouled by Glen Johnson.  There was a five-minute delay for an injury to Liverpool’s
 Daniel Agger , who had to leave the field, before  Van Persie 
struck the spot-kick. Reina got a hand to the ball but was
unable to keep it out.  Missed Opportunity  Martin Kelly  missed an opportunity to tie the match as he
headed wide on 83 minutes. The fullback limped off deep into
injury time as Liverpool finished with only nine players on the
field.  United held on for its first win at Anfield since December
2007. Liverpool has three defeats and two draws from its five
league games this season.  “I’m bitterly disappointed with the result, I thought the
best team lost,” Rodgers said. “Very, very soon our luck will
change and we’ll do what it takes to win games, and when we do,
I believe we’ll fly.”  City was held to its third league draw of the season after
Laurent Koscielny rescued a point for Arsenal with eight minutes
remaining at the Etihad Stadium.  “We are a strong squad and we have to stick together,”
Arsenal defender Per Mertesacker told  Sky Sports . “We did well
and we have to keep on going.”  Koscielny Goal  Koscielny fired the ball past  Joe Hart , who had kept his
team ahead moments earlier with a diving save from a Santi Cazorla shot.  Joleon Lescott put City ahead on 40 minutes with a header
from a corner by  David Silva . It was only the second league goal
Arsenal has allowed this season.  Defending champion City has yet to shut out any opposition
this campaign and has recorded only two wins. It slipped to a 3-
2 loss at Real Madrid in the Champions League in midweek.  Tottenham scored two goals in a minute at White Hart Lane
to rally from a goal behind against QPR.  Bobby Zamora  put QPR
ahead on 33 minutes, with the hosts replying from an Alejandro Faurlin own goal and a strike by Jermain Defoe.  Demba Ba scored his third goal in two games to seal a win
for Newcastle.  Two days ago, Chelsea beat Stoke 1-0, Everton won 3-0 at
Swansea, West Brom defeated Reading 1-0, and Southampton beat
Aston Villa 4-1. Fulham won 2-1 at Wigan, while West Ham and
Sunderland tied 1-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 