-- Marchionne Tells Monti Fiat Wants to Boost Italian Exports
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-09-23T12:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/marchionne-tells-monti-fiat-wants-to-boost-italian-exports-1-.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian automaker
that controls Chrysler Group LLC, wants to strengthen its
position in the export market as it commits to investing in
Italy, Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s office said.  Fiat wants to “re-orient its business model” within the
country to help boost exports outside Europe, Monti’s office
said in a joint statement e-mailed yesterday. The premier met
with Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  in  Rome  for
more than five hours.  Fiat has suspended investments in Italy, reducing spending
by 500 million euros ($650 million) in Europe in 2012 and
delaying new models, as Marchionne has said he doesn’t expect
sales to recover in the region before 2014 at the earliest.
Turin-based Fiat, Italy’s biggest manufacturer, said Sept. 18
that it won’t give up on its home market, even as the carmaker
is set to lose 700 million euros in  Europe  this year.  The government and Fiat agreed to keep talking to find
“conditions to strengthen the company’s competitive capacity,”
the statement said. The Italian industry ministry will set up a
working group to help with the export push.  Fiat confirmed in the statement it will invest in Italy
“at the right moment to develop new models to catch any
recovery of the European market.”   Fiat didn’t ask for state aid, and the two sides didn’t
talk about job cuts or plant closures during the meeting, said
two people with knowledge of the discussions. Labor issues may
be dealt with at meetings of the industry ministry’s working
group, said one of people, who declined to be identified because
the talks were private.  Registrations Drop  “In spite of the government’s efforts, it seems like
Fiat’s problems remain unresolved,” said Pier Luigi Bersani,
leader of the  Democratic Party , which backs Monti in parliament.
Workers and the state will be faced with “a new round of costly
social buffers,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  With European car sales on pace to fall in 2012 for a fifth
consecutive year because of the region’s sovereign-debt crisis,
Fiat cut production in Italy last year to fewer than 500,000
cars from 650,000 in 2009, according to industry association
Anfia. Marchionne reiterated on Sept. 13 that conditions no
longer exist to carry out an investment plan which was targeted
at boosting production in Italy to 1.4 million cars in 2014.  “Without any clear guarantee on the future of workers and
plants in  Italy , we are not satisfied” after the meeting, said
Giovanni Centrella, head of the Ugl union, in an e-mailed
statement.  Registrations in Europe fell 8.5 percent in August,
according to the Brussels-based European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association, or ACEA. The market has shrunk for
11 consecutive months, and the ACEA is forecasting a 17-year low
for full-year sales. In August, Fiat said it’s focused on
temporary layoffs, as opposed to permanent job cuts, as a
response to the contraction.  Trimming the Ranks  Marchionne, who has been spearheading an industrywide
effort to cut excess assembly lines in Europe, said July 3 that
Fiat would need to close a second Italian factory, after
shuttering one last year, unless he finds a way to export cars
to the U.S.  The carmaker is trimming European management ranks at its
volume nameplates by 20 percent to reduce operating losses, a
person familiar with the matter said last week. About 110 of 550
managerial positions will be eliminated at the division that
includes the Fiat, Alfa Romeo and Lancia brands, said the
person, who asked not to be identified discussing internal
personnel decisions.  “Italy could continue to be a place where it makes sense
to invest in auto production if it completes reforms aimed at
boosting productivity,” Gianluca Spina, chairman of MIP
Business School at Milan Polytechnic, said before Marchionne’s
meeting with Monti. “Europe is still the place where
innovations take place in the car industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  