-- Argentina, Clarin Dispute Deadline on Asset Sales
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-09-23T17:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/argentina-clarin-dispute-deadline-on-asset-sales.html
Argentina ’s government and one its
leading critics,  Grupo Clarin SA (GCLA) , clashed over President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s decision to enforce a Dec. 7
deadline to break up the country’s biggest media company.  The government announced it will strip most of Buenos
Aires-based Clarin’s television and radio licenses even as
judges consider a company-requested injunction to block the
decision, according to a  video statement  published yesterday on
the website of the nation’s federal communication authority,
known as Afsca.  The  Supreme Court  ruled on May 22 that Clarin has to sell
assets to comply with antitrust laws that Congress approved in
2009. The company owns the country’s largest-circulation
newspaper as well as TV station Cablevision SA,  radio stations ,
 Internet providers  and Argentina’s biggest printer. Fernandez’s
administration plans to enforce the court’s decision, saying the
group’s monopoly must end.  The law “guarantees more plurality of voices and more
freedom of expression,” Afsca said. “If Grupo Clarin continues
to deny compliance with the law, the state will be obliged to
call a public bid, guaranteeing jobs, to allocate those licenses
that exceed the maximum authorized by the law.”  Clarin said the law violates constitutional guarantees and
that courts had at least one year to decide the legality of the
case.  “Even though the government wants to implement something
different, on Dec. 7, legally and factually, nothing should
happen to the media outlets of Grupo Clarin,” the company said
in a video statement posted today on its  website . “This isn’t
an opinion or an interpretation, it’s what the law says.”  Under the new rules, media companies can hold a maximum of
24 cable-television licenses and 10 “open” licenses, including
radio and broadcast TV, Afsca said. Clarin has 240 cable
stations, 10 radio and four broadcast TV licenses, according to
Afsca.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 