-- Australia Can’t Rely on Resources, Minister Emerson Says
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-09-23T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/australia-can-t-rely-on-resources-minister-emerson-says.html
Australia  can’t rely on its
resources boom to ensure better  living standards  over the next
decade and the government needs to tighten its budget to create
room for interest rate cuts, Trade Minister Craig Emerson said.  A government commitment to restore the budget to surplus
this fiscal year, after four years of deficits, will be achieved
through spending cuts and possible tax increases, Emerson told
Sky News television yesterday. While the  Reserve Bank of
Australia  lowered the cash rate by 1.25 percentage points from
November to June, the benchmark borrowing cost at 3.5 percent is
still the highest among major developed economies.  “We can’t just be reliant purely or primarily on minerals
and energy. This government recognizes that,” Emerson said.
“It would be a good thing if the government gave the  Reserve
Bank  the capacity, if it so desired, for further interest rate
reductions.”  Australia has managed to avoid recession for 21 years as
 China ’s infrastructure-led economic stimulus fueled demand for
commodities such as  iron ore  and coal, driving the country’s
 trade balance  to a 40-year high in 2010. Australia now has one
of the developed world’s lowest  debt burdens , at just 27 percent
of gross domestic product compared with 68 percent in the U.S.
and 212 percent in  Japan .  A warning last week by economist and government adviser
 Ross Garnaut  that the country would face declining  living
standards  as prices of exported commodities fall was wide of the
mark, Emerson said.  ‘Deflationary Shock’  “The mining boom still has a long way to run,”  Wayne Swan ,
Australia’s treasurer, said in his weekly economic note
yesterday. While “commodity prices have remained lower than
what we factored into the budget forecasts,” stimuli to growth
from mine investment and export volumes “have a way to run”
and the government will deliver “responsible savings,” Swan
said.  Australia risks a “deflationary shock” that will start to
be felt in about 18 months as commodity prices are weighed down
from growing supply as a result of current investments, former
Reserve Bank board member Bob Gregory said Sept. 19. The effect
“will become increasingly evident quite quickly,” Gregory said.  The pace of China’s iron ore demand has slowed by more than
half, Alberto Calderon, chief commercial officer of the world’s
biggest miner  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , told a conference in Canberra
the same day.  Port Expansion  BHP last month delayed an estimated $68 billion of projects,
including an iron ore port expansion at Australia’s Port Hedland,
the world’s biggest export harbor for the commodity, amid a
price slump that’s driven a key iron ore  benchmark  down 39
percent over the past year. Thermal coal at Australia’s
Newcastle port, the biggest coal-export harbor, is down 25
percent over the same period.  The fall in commodity prices will cause Australia to have
“a very difficult time adapting to the decline in living
standards that’s going to be a necessary part of the
adjustment,” Garnaut, a former chairman of Lihir Gold Ltd. who
was senior economic adviser to former prime minister  Bob Hawke ,
was cited as saying by the Australian Financial Review Sept. 20.  “Living standards aren’t going to decline, that’s the
truth of the matter,” Emerson said. “Prices have come down but
anyone 10 years ago, to look at current prices and prospective
prices, would dream about these prices.”  The government could drop its surplus commitment and the
RBA could consider rate cuts in the event of a downturn in the
global economy, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a Sept.
20 assessment of the country’s economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  