-- Brandt Snedeker Wins Tour Championship and FedEx Cup Golf Bonus
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-09-24T04:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/brandt-snedeker-wins-tour-championship-and-fedex-cup-golf-bonus.html
Brandt Snedeker won golf’s FedEx
Cup and its $10 million bonus after capturing the season-ending
Tour Championship yesterday as Rory McIlroy and  Tiger Woods 
failed to challenge for either title.  It’s Snedeker’s fourth career victory on the U.S.  PGA Tour 
and second this year following his win at January’s Farmers
Insurance Open.  “I’m very rarely speechless, but this is about as close as
I get to speechless,” Snedeker told reporters. “It solidifies
what I already know. When I play my best golf, my best golf is
some of the best in the world.”  A 31-year-old American, Snedeker entered the final round
tied for the lead with  England ’s  Justin Rose  at 8-under par and
carded a 2-under 68 for a three-shot victory over Rose, who shot
1-over 71.  Luke Donald  and  Ryan Moore  tied for third at 6 under.  Snedeker had a bogey on the par-3 final hole after his tee
shot landed in a spectator area left of the green. He had opened
a four-shot lead on the previous hole when he chipped in for
birdie from in front of the green.  It wasn’t until then that the Nashville, Tennessee, native
said he finally allowed himself to think about the bonus check.  “I was so worried about trying to beat Justin to win the
Tour Championship today,” he said. “I was not thinking about
the $10 million at all until the last hole, and I hit an awful
shot. So that shows you what that does for you.”  In addition to the bonus, Snedeker won $1.4 million for the
Tour Championship title.  “It’s going to be an unbelievable thing to go through this
process of being financially secure for a long period of time,”
he said. “As long as I’m not an idiot, I should be fine. I’m
not by any means a flashy guy. Of anybody that I know, I do not
need $11 million. I really think we can make a difference and
help a lot of people out.”  Woods finished eighth in the event and third in the FedEx
Cup standings after a final-round 2-over-par 72. Woods came into
the tournament behind leader McIlroy in the standings and would
have captured his third FedEx Cup title with a win. He finished
the year with three victories, his most since capturing seven
events in 2009.  “Considering where I was at last year, it’s nice to be
where I’m at right now,” Woods told reporters. “I was
struggling with my health last year. This year I was able to
turn it around and play some pretty good golf.”  McIlroy, a 23-year-old Northern Irishman who had won three
of his past four events including the  PGA Championship , finished
10th in the Tour Championship after a final-round 74. McIlroy
hit two of 14 fairways with his tee shots yesterday and finished
second in the FedEx Cup standings.  “I’m a little disappointed,” McIlroy said. “I didn’t
play the way I wanted to. I just wanted to come in here and win
the tournament. If I had hit more fairways, it might have been a
different story.”  Snedeker, McIlroy, Woods,  Nick Watney  or  Phil Mickelson 
would have claimed the FedEx Cup bonus with a win yesterday.  Snedeker was fifth in the standings coming into the Tour
Championship after finishing second at the Barclays tournament -
- the first of four playoff events -- and sixth at the following
week’s Deutsche Bank Championship.  He joins Woods (2007, 2009)  Vijay Singh  (2008),  Jim Furyk 
(2010) and  Bill Haas  (2011) as winners of the FedEx Cup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  