-- China Beige Book Shows Optimism Drops as Job Cuts Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-24T07:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/china-beige-book-shows-optimism-drops-as-job-cuts-rise.html
China ’s  manufacturers  and retailers
are less optimistic about sales than they were three months ago
and more companies are cutting jobs, according to a survey
modeled on the U.S. Federal Reserve’s  Beige Book .  The China Beige Book, through interviews of more than 2,000
company executives and bankers from Aug. 9 to Sept. 3, found
limits to monetary easing after interest-rate  cuts  in June and
July, with banks loosening credit while fewer companies are
borrowing, according to a summary from CBB International LLC,
the New York-based researcher that conducted the survey.  The findings build on economic data indicating
manufacturing, trade and retail sales slowed in the third
quarter, pointing to a seventh straight deceleration in  growth 
and potentially the weakest annual expansion in 22 years. They
contrast with the China Beige Book’s report for the previous
period, which said it found a rebound not reflected in official
statistics and projected government data would reflect a pickup
by “mid- to late summer.”  “The dramatic and unexpected worsening of the European
crisis and slowing of America’s economy brought China’s export
order growth to a near-standstill,” said Craig Charney,
research director for the China Beige Book.  At the same time, the third-quarter report showed some
trends continued “despite the overall growth slowdown,”
including relatively faster growth in retailing and services, a
recovery in the real estate market, and greater strength in
poorer and more peripheral regions than coastal industrial areas,
Charney said.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.3 percent today; it’s
down 15 percent in the past year.  Manufacturing Survey  A separate survey last week from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics found China’s manufacturing may contract for an
11th straight month in September. Economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  this month forecast growth would slow to 7.4
percent in the third quarter from 7.6 percent in the previous
three months, based on the median estimate.  The China Beige Book said manufacturing was the area with
the biggest declines in companies reporting higher revenue, down
20 percentage points to 43 percent, and higher output, down 15
points to 47 percent. Respondents expecting higher sales in six
months dropped 18 points to 53 percent and those seeing declines
doubled to 20 percent, CBB said.  Government data showed factory  output  rose 8.9 percent in
August from a year earlier, down from 9.5 percent in June and
11.9 percent in March.  No Recovery  “There is nothing in the Beige Book that would
definitively suggest a recovery in the Chinese economy is in the
offing,” said  Glenn Maguire , principal at consultant  Asia 
Sentry Advisory Pty in North Sydney,  Australia , and former
Societe Generale SA chief Asia economist. “The deterioration in
net hiring and sharp pickup in job shedding is consistent with
the HSBC PMI figures which point to a significant weakening in
domestic demand, particularly retail.”  Retailing growth also slowed in the third quarter from the
three months through June, though by a smaller degree than
manufacturing, according to the CBB report. Fifty-eight percent
of respondents reported higher sales, down 10 percentage points
from the second quarter, while 20 percent reported a drop,
almost double the previous period. Optimism for higher sales in
six months is down from last quarter, even as more than two-
thirds of retailers expect an increase, compared with 11 percent
see declines, China Beige Book said.  Economic Rebalancing  “Retailers’ outlook, if dimmer, is still the most
optimistic,” CBB said. “This may reflect the long-awaited
rebalancing to consumption” in the economy, the report said.  China’s statistics bureau said retail sales rose 13.2
percent in August from a year earlier, down from 13.7 percent in
June and 15.2 percent in March.  “Inventories are rising in manufacturing and retailing,
unlike last quarter, when they fell at factories and were stable
in stores,” CBB said in its report.  Elsewhere in Asia,  Singapore ’s consumer price index rose
3.9 percent in August from a year earlier, slowing for a second
month and increasing the central bank’s scope to ease monetary
policy and bolster growth.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
President  John Williams  is scheduled to speak at a City Club
luncheon.  In  Europe ’s day ahead, German business confidence probably
climbed for the first time in six months, with the Ifo
institute’s September business climate index expected to rise to
102.5, according to a survey of economists.  Job Cuts  China’s slowdown is pushing more companies to cut jobs or
halt hiring. The number of companies reporting net hiring gains
this quarter fell nine percentage points to 32 percent, while
those cutting employees rose to 20 percent from 13 percent, CBB
said. Fewer companies than before said the supply of unskilled
labor is increasing.  The proportion of respondents reducing wages more than
doubled to 11 percent, including 30 percent of companies with
falling revenue, CBB said.  Recent trends in the labor market aren’t yet “particularly
worrying,” said Alicia Garcia-Herrero, chief economist for
 emerging markets  at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in  Hong
Kong  who formerly worked for the  International Monetary Fund .
“Reports of labor shortages persist, and official indicators --
though admittedly rather narrow in their coverage -- are
relatively stable,” she said.  The two interest-rate cuts and three reductions in banks’
reserve requirements may be failing to boost lending, according
to the China Beige Book. Half of bankers reported greater credit
availability at their branch, up 10 percentage points, while
companies reporting borrowing dropped 9 points to 34 percent.  The report said a recovery in the real estate market was
“slow but steady,” while the proportion of builders “in
trouble is up despite higher overall revenues.” Forty-three
percent of residential realtors said prices rose, up 7 percent
from the previous three months, CBB said.  --Scott Lanman. With assistance from Zheng Lifei and  Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing, Tracy Withers in Wellington and Brendan Murray in Sydney. Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  