-- China’s Security Chief Makes Surprise Visit to Afghan Capital
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-23T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/china-s-security-chief-makes-surprise-visit-to-afghanistan-1-.html
China ’s top security official made
a surprise four-hour visit to  Afghanistan , the first by a
ranking Chinese political figure since 1966, the state-run
Xinhua News Agency reported.  Zhou Yongkang , one of the nine members in the Standing
Committee of the Politburo, met with Afghan President Hamid Karzai Sept. 22 and said China “will actively participate in
Afghanistan’s reconstruction,” Xinhua reported yesterday.
Zhou’s visit wasn’t made public in advance because of security
concerns, Xinhua said.  “Zhou’s visit shows China is seriously planning its Afghan
strategy for the days after 2014,” said Wang Lian, a professor
with the School of International Studies at the  Peking
University  in Beijing. “Almost every great power in history,
when they were rising, was deeply involved in Afghanistan, and
China will not be an exception.”  The trip comes at a time when U.S.-led NATO forces are
leaving Afghanistan after more than a decade of war. U.S.
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said on Sept. 21 in  New Zealand 
that the U.S. has withdrawn the last of 33,000 so-called
“surge” troops from the country. All combating NATO forces are
scheduled to leave Afghanistan by the end of 2014.  Zhou, who is in charge of China’s police and judicial
systems, oversees crackdowns on religious extremism and
terrorism in China’s northwestern Muslim region.  China Stability  The biggest pursuit of China’s Afghanistan policy is to
maintain stability within its own borders, said Peking
University’s Wang, who studies geo-politics in the Pakistan-
Afghanistan region.  “Afghanistan is vital for China to maintain development
and stability in China’s northwestern regions -- that’s the
foremost strategic meaning of Afghanistan for China,” he said.  China has no military involvement in Afghanistan and the
Chinese government won’t seek a military presence in the country
even after the withdrawal of all NATO forces, Wang said,
although China’s growing economic power will provide it more
leverage in Afghan reconstruction.  Chinese state companies have made resources and energy
investments there. China National Petroleum Corp. won an auction
in 2011 to develop three blocks in the Amu Darya basin that are
estimated to hold 80 million barrels of oil. China shares a 76-
kilometer (47-mile) border with Afghanistan, according to the
U.S. Central Intelligence Agency’s World Factbook.  Strategic Partnership  Metallurgical Corp. (1618)  of China and  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , both
state-owned companies, won the rights in 2008 to develop the
Aynak copper mine in Afghanistan. The production date of the
mine has been repeatedly delayed, partly due to a relic site
that was found at the mine. Jiangxi Copper Chairman Li Yihuang
said in March that the mine may start operating in 2014-2016.  No Chinese leader had visited Afghanistan since former
President Liu Shaoqi in 1966. According to China’s Foreign
Ministry, China pulled out all its diplomats from Afghanistan in
1993, and re-opened its embassy in Kabul in 2002 after the
Taliban regime was toppled by the NATO-led force. At a meeting
between Chinese President  Hu Jintao  and Karzai in Beijing in
June, the two countries decided to develop “a strategic and
cooperative partnership,” according to Xinhua.  “As the world’s second largest economy and one of the five
permanent members of the UN Security Council, China has to
shoulder more responsibilities in Afghanistan,” Wang said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  