-- China ‘Strongly’ Opposes Japan Landing on Disputed Islands
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-23T02:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/china-strongly-opposes-japanese-landing-on-disputed-islands.html
China  “strongly” opposes the
landing of Japanese citizens on disputed islands, the Foreign
Ministry said.  Japan ’s move “constitutes a severe violation of China’s
territorial sovereignty” and Japan “must immediately stop all
activities that infringe upon China’s sovereignty,” spokesman
Hong Lei said in a brief statement late yesterday on the
ministry’s website.  Japanese nationals visited the islands Sept. 21 with the
excuse of preventing a landing by Taiwanese activists, he said.
 China Central Television  described the Japanese group as
security personnel.  The dispute over the islands, known as Diaoyu in China and
Senkaku in Japanese, has produced the worst diplomatic crisis
between China and Japan since 2005 and may continue to threaten
trade ties between Asia’s two biggest economies. The issue
sparked violent protests in China against Japanese shops and
businesses earlier this month after Japan’s government announced
plans to buy the isles.  “China will continue to take measures to resolutely defend
its sovereignty over the Diaoyu islands,” Hong said, without
elaborating.  The Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post reported today
that the ruling Chinese Communist Party will send a delegation
to Japan tomorrow as part of the diplomatic efforts to ease
tensions over the dispute.  Peaceful Solution  China is committed to solving disputes over territory and
maritime rights peacefully, Vice President  Xi Jinping  said in a
speech at the China-Asean Business and Investment Summit in
southern China on Sept. 21. At the same time, it will defend its
sovereignty and territorial integrity, he said.  Japan must be firm “without being provocative or being
provoked” on territorial issues, Japanese Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  said on the same day.  About 700 people marched in central Tokyo yesterday to
protest China’s claim to the rocky islands and the presence of
Chinese surveillance ships in nearby waters, the Sankei
newspaper reported on its website, citing police estimates.  The march was planned by Ganbare Nippon, the group that
organized a boat trip to the islands last month by about 150
Japanese after activists from  Hong Kong  were arrested for
landing on one and planting a Chinese flag.  Yesterday’s protesters marched about one kilometer (0.6
miles) carrying flags and placards, while chanting “We’ll
defend the Senkakus,” according to the Sankei report.  China and Japan’s business relations “have obviously been
affected by Japan’s purchase of the Diaoyu Islands” Foreign
Ministry spokesman Hong said Sept. 21. “Japan should face
squarely the realities and correct its mistakes.”  Authorities in Beijing published a list of Chinese names
and descriptions of islands in the  East China Sea  claimed by
both China and Japan, the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday.  Engaging China in a broader regional role is essential to
preventing tensions in Pacific, U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon
Panetta  said in an interview today with Television  New Zealand .  “The territorial problems that we’re facing right now are
a good example,” he said according to an e-mailed transcript.
“If nations can’t resolve that, that could be real trouble in
this region.”  --Xin Zhou. With reporting by Jacob Adelman in Tokyo. Editors:
Paul Tighe,  Jim McDonald   To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  