-- Clegg Rekindles Differences With Cameron in Call to Tax Rich
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-09-24T12:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/clegg-says-u-k-can-raise-more-taxes-on-capital-gains-property.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg rekindled differences with his Tory coalition partners
over taxing the wealthy, saying there’s more scope to raise
money from the top 10 percent of earners.  “Most people in this country don’t understand why people
who have very high-value property don’t pay their fair share,”
Clegg said in an interview on BBC Radio 5 today. “It’s easier
to stop  tax avoidance  on bricks and mortar than on money you can
move around the world.”  The Liberal Democrat leader is seeking to recoup poll
losses and distance himself from Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservatives. An Opinium poll for the Observer newspaper
yesterday showed the Liberal Democrats have dropped into fourth
place with support at 8 percent, behind the U.K. Independence
Party’s 10 percent.  Many Conservatives say welfare spending should take the
burden of the additional austerity needed to narrow the  budget
deficit . Clegg angered rank-and-file supporters by backing a
reduction in the top income-tax rate in Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne’s March budget, without securing the
“mansion tax” on the priciest homes the Liberal Democrats had
demanded in return.  Clegg hinted at the battles to come yesterday, attacking
“vile suggestions that have been made from the right of British
politics that all the savings should be made from welfare.”
Liberal Democrats “will start at the top and work down” in
seeking to raise  tax revenue , he said in a question-and-answer
session at the party’s conference in Brighton on  England ’s south
coast.  ‘Belt Tightening’  The Liberal Democrat leader told Sky News television today
that his party was “not going to soak anyone,” though “belt
tightening will have to continue for a while, for longer than we
hoped.”  Asked on  BBC Television ’s “Andrew Marr Show” yesterday
whether he could persuade Cameron and Conservative Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  to back a  wealth tax , Clegg said
that “there is a very considerable chance because we’ve already
done a lot of it to make sure the top pay more tax.”  There are “numerous ways that you can do more of it,”
Clegg said. “Whether it’s on  capital gains , whether it’s on
high property transactions; all of that we can do more of.”  Liberal Democrat Business Secretary Vince Cable told the
conference today that the coalition would press ahead with moves
to tackle “abusive tax avoidance” as well as criminal  tax
evasion .  ‘Shady People’  “No one keeps their cash in  tax havens  for the quality of
investment advice; these are sunny places for shady people,”
Cable said.  While ruling out high marginal rates of income tax as
counter-productive, Cable reiterated the plan for a mansion tax
as “a first step to the proper taxation of wealth and land.”  Such a tax “horrifies the Tory backwoodsmen but it is
popular and right,” the business secretary said. “The super-
rich can’t move their chateaux to Monaco or  Switzerland  so let’s
get on with it and tax them here.”  The Centre for Policy Studies, a Conservative research
group set up by  Margaret Thatcher , said in a  briefing note  today
that a mansion tax would “raise very little money” as well as
being “difficult and expensive to collect.”  ‘Many More’  All 74,000 homes above the 2-million pound threshold “and
presumably many more below the threshold” would have to be
valued, and an average 20,000-pound levy would bring in only 1.5
billion pounds, the CPR said. “The U.K. already has by far the
highest property tax take of any OECD country: property taxes
contribute 4.2 percent of GDP compared to the OECD average of
1.8 percent. Within that, high-end property owners already pay a
disproportionate amount.”  The opposition  Labour Party  accused the Liberal Democrats
of hypocrisy, pointing to the budget decision to lower the top
rate of income tax to 45 percent from 50 percent.  “Nobody will be fooled by  Nick Clegg ’s empty words on
tax,” Rachel Reeves, one of Labour’s finance spokeswomen, said
in an e-mailed statement. “This is the man who backed a 3
billion-pound  tax cut  for millionaires in the budget while
asking millions of pensioners and families to pay more.”  Clegg also announced a “pension-for-property” plan that
will be introduced by the government to allow parents and
grandparents to help their offspring to buy a home by using
their pension assets to secure mortgages.  “We’re going to allow those parents and grandparents to
use their pension pots to act as a kind of guarantee, if you
like, so that youngsters, their children and grandchildren, can
take out a deposit and buy their home,” Clegg said. The plan
will allow them “to use their pension pots to act as a kind of
guarantee.”  Poll Slump  The Opinium poll showed Labour in the lead at 42 percent,
followed by the Conservatives with 30 percent. The poll
represented the views of 1,681 people who indicated that they
were likely to vote from 1,964 online interviews, the Observer
said, without indicating a margin of error.  The  Liberal Democrats  have lost support since breaking a
pre-election pledge not to raise university tuition fees,
something Clegg apologized for on Sept. 19. A pop single
satirizing that apology, remixing his words to music, entered
the Top 40 iTunes U.K. downloads.  Clegg insisted he “will not flinch” from staying on as
party leader until the next election, scheduled for 2015.  “The idea that when you’re halfway up a mountain you
suddenly bail out, when the journey gets most difficult you
suddenly flinch, I’m not going to flinch,” Clegg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in Brighton, England, at
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  