-- Clinton Says Tax Rates Like Romney’s Won’t Help Economy
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-09-23T14:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/clinton-says-tax-rates-like-romney-s-won-t-help-economy.html
Former President  Bill Clinton  said
tax rates such as the one paid by Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  last year aren’t helping the U.S. economic
recovery.  “I don’t think we can get out of this hole we’re in if
people at that income level only pay 13, 14 percent,” Democrat
Clinton said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” today. “It’d be
interesting, I think, for the American people to see how the
ordinary income years were treated, but apparently we’re not
going to get to see that.”  Romney paid $1.9 million in taxes on $13.7 million of
income in 2011 for a 14.1 percent rate, according to tax returns
he released last week. The former Massachusetts governor and his
wife make most of their income from investing an estimated $250
million fortune, and much of that income is taxed at a top rate
of 15 percent, rather than the top rate of 35 percent for wages.  Robert Gibbs , a senior adviser to Democratic President
 Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign, also weighed in today on
Romney’s tax returns during an interview on “Fox News Sunday.”  “The American people deserve to know a lot more about Mitt
Romney’s finances because he hasn’t been straight with the
American people about those finances and he hasn’t been straight
with the American people about what’s going to happen with their
taxes,” Gibbs said. “Middle class families, as a result of the
promises Mitt Romney has made, are going to see their taxes go
up, while he’s going to cut taxes for people just like him.”  Tax Cut Extension  Clinton, 66, said that he doesn’t support a temporary
extension of the George W. Bush-era tax cuts for wealthier
Americans. He said that if Obama were to extend the cuts another
year for top earners “one more time would put him in a very
disadvantageous position and make it impossible for us to get a
reasonable budget deal.”  The U.S. faces a so-called fiscal cliff in January, when
$1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts over 10 years will
start and the Bush-era tax cuts will expire, unless Congress
breaks its deadlock and agrees on a debt plan. Obama and
Democrats propose letting tax cuts expire for top earners.  Clinton said the impasse in Congress may be loosened after
the Nov. 6 elections, which he predicts Obama will win even amid
heavy spending by groups such as super political action
committees that support Romney.  Republican Super-PACS  “The Republican super-PACs and the Romney campaign
combined will outspend the Democrats probably two-and-a-half,
three-to-one from here on in,” Clinton said, adding that Obama
is “winning and winning in the swing states.”  Obama polls 50 percent among likely voters in three swing
states, according to a survey that shows him pulling ahead of
Romney in many of the election’s battlegrounds.  An NBC News/Wall Street Journal/Marist College poll
conducted Sept. 16-18 gave Obama identical five-percentage point
leads, 50 percent to 45 percent, in Colorado and  Wisconsin , and
an eight-point advantage in  Iowa , 50 percent to 42 percent.  Court battles over voting rules are taking place in swing
states including  Pennsylvania ,  Florida ,  Ohio  and Wisconsin.
Backers of restrictions such as requiring a government-issued
identification card with a photo argue that the measures are
needed to combat voting fraud. Opponents say the true purpose is
to suppress voting by minorities and lower-income people, who
tend to vote Democratic and are less likely to have
identification cards such as driver’s licenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  