-- Coeure Says Not Clear That Further ECB Interest-Rate Cut Needed
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-09-23T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/coeure-says-need-of-further-ecb-interest-rate-cut-not-obvious-.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said policy makers may not reduce
 interest rates  further as confidence in the euro-area’s economic
outlook improves and inflation stays high.  “The jury is open as to whether there should be another
 rate  cut,” Coeure told reporters in the West Bank city of
 Ramallah  yesterday where he was attending a conference. “It’s
not absolutely obvious that another rate cut would be
necessary.”  The ECB this month raised its inflation forecasts for this
year and next, even as the sovereign debt crisis is threatening
to push the 17-nation euro region into recession. Yet, details
of a new bond-purchase plan unveiled by ECB President  Mario Draghi  on Sept. 6 boosted financial markets and helped ease
concerns about the severity of the economic slowdown.  Investor confidence in  Germany , the region’s largest
economy, gained for the first time in five months in September
and gauges of activity in the manufacturing and service
industries rose more than economists forecast. At the same time,
countries in the European periphery are struggling with record
unemployment, sluggish consumption and dwindling exports.  “Certainly the euro-area economy is weak,” Coeure said.
“Growth will be very weak in 2012 and 2013,” he said.
“Inflation will be going down but at a relatively slow pace.
So, there is some persistence in inflation data in the euro area
that warrants caution as regards the possibility of further rate
cuts.”  He also said the single-currency region has turned the
corner “in terms of confidence and in terms of perception” and
we now have conditions in place “ultimately to restore
growth.”  Detailed Analysis  While the ECB could “theoretically” cut its deposit rate
below zero to add stimulus, it may not be feasible, Coeure said.  “There has to be a detailed analysis on how further cuts
in the deposit rate would spill over into different market
segments and whether the functioning of money markets is
compatible with negative rates,” Coeure said. “It’s not
obvious that all market segments can properly function with
negative rates. So, there are probably limits to the efficiency
of further cuts in the deposit rates.”  Policy makers in July reduced the rate at which the ECB
remunerates excess overnight deposits to zero and cut the main
refinancing rate to a record low of 0.75 percent. That’s sparked
a debate about whether the ECB is willing to take interest rates
into a territory few central banks have dared to venture.  The deposit rate has served as the de facto benchmark,
steering overnight market borrowing costs, since the ECB started
to provide banks with unlimited liquidity after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. That policy removed the
need for banks to borrow from each other to meet their  reserve
requirements , pushing down interest rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  