-- Democrats Criticize Romney’s Tax Rate as Republicans Dismiss It
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-09-23T17:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/democrats-criticize-romney-s-tax-rate-as-republicans-dismiss-it.html
Former President  Bill Clinton  said
low tax rates like the one paid by Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  aren’t helping the economic recovery, adding
to Democratic criticism that Republicans disregard the needs of
average Americans.  “I don’t think we can get out of this hole we’re in if
people at that income level only pay 13, 14 percent,” Democrat
Clinton said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” today. “It’d be
interesting, I think, for the American people to see how the
ordinary income years were treated, but apparently we’re not
going to get to see that.”  Romney paid $1.9 million in taxes on $13.7 million of
income in 2011 for a 14.1 percent rate, according to tax returns
he released last week. The former Massachusetts governor and his
wife make most of their income from investing an estimated $250
million fortune, and much of that income is taxed at a top rate
of 15 percent, rather than the top rate of 35 percent for wages.  In 2011, Romney reported no income from wages, $6.8 million
from  capital gains  and $3 million from taxable interest. The
Romneys donated more than 29 percent of their income to charity,
including more than $1.1 million in cash to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.  Robert Gibbs , a senior adviser to Democratic President
 Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign, said on “Fox News Sunday”
that Romney, who co-founded Boston-based equity firm Bain
Capital LLC, needs to explain the details of his investments.  Romney’s Finances  “The American people deserve to know a lot more about Mitt
Romney’s finances because he hasn’t been straight with the
American people about those finances, and he hasn’t been
straight with the American people about what’s going to happen
with their taxes,” Gibbs said. “Middle class families, as a
result of the promises Mitt Romney has made, are going to see
their taxes go up, while he’s going to cut taxes for people just
like him.”  Some Republicans dismissed the emphasis on Romney’s tax
returns, saying the focus should be on the economy and the Obama
administration’s handling of it. Speaking on CNN’s “ State of
the Union ” program today,  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South
Carolina  predicted that Obama will be defeated in the November
election.  Talking About Economy  “This election is about the economy and the future of
America,” Graham said. “We’ve talked about Mitt Romney’s tax
return. We’ve talked about his speech, the tape of his speech at
a campaign fundraiser. We’ve talked about his dog being on top
of the car.”  “They’re not talking about what they have done,” Graham
said. “This is not a sound economy, and this is why Mitt Romney
is going to win the race.”  Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus today
said his party had a “good week,” even with the criticisms
associated with Romney’s tax returns and with the leak of a
video showing Romney stating that 47 percent of Americans are
government-dependent “victims.”  “I think that we had a good week last week” because “we
were able to frame up the debate” about the future direction of
the country, Priebus said on ABC’s “This Week” broadcast.
Earlier in the show he said it was “not the best week in the
campaign.”  Mother Jones  The Romney campaign is dealing with fallout from comments
that were recorded at a private fundraising event in May and
distributed by Mother Jones magazine last week. Democrats have
pounced on the remarks, framing Romney as a wealthy Republican
who is out of touch with much of the country.  “It’s fair to say that a lot of those 47 percent that he
was slandering earlier in the week probably pay more -- a higher
percentage of their income in taxes overall than he does,”
 David Axelrod , a campaign strategist for President Barack Obama,
said on the ABC broadcast today.  The issue of taxes, particularly whether to extend the
George W. Bush-era tax cuts for wealthier Americans, is
contributing to gridlock between congressional Democrats and
Republicans as the so-called fiscal cliff approaches. In
January, the U.S. faces $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts
over 10 years and the Bush-era tax cuts will expire, unless
Congress can agree on a debt plan. Obama and Democrats propose
letting tax cuts expire for top earners.  Extending Tax Cuts  Clinton said today that he doesn’t support a temporary
extension of the Bush-era tax cuts for top earners. He said that
if Obama agrees to extend the cuts another year for that group
it “would put him in a very disadvantageous position and make
it impossible for us to get a reasonable budget deal.”  Clinton said the impasse in Congress may be loosened after
the Nov. 6 elections, which he predicts Obama will win even amid
heavy spending by groups such as super political action
committees that support Romney.  “The Republican super-PACs and the Romney campaign
combined will outspend the Democrats probably two-and-a-half,
three-to-one from here on in,” Clinton said, adding that Obama
is “winning, and winning in the swing states.”  Obama polls 50 percent among likely voters in three swing
states, according to a poll that shows him pulling ahead of
Romney in many of the election’s battlegrounds.  The NBC News/Wall Street Journal/Marist College poll
conducted Sept. 16-18 gave Obama identical five-percentage point
leads, 50 percent to 45 percent, in Colorado and  Wisconsin , and
an eight-point advantage in  Iowa , 50 percent to 42 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  