-- Mecca Seeks to Lead Saudi Arabia’s Solar Energy Expansion
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-09-23T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/mecca-seeks-to-lead-saudi-arabia-s-solar-energy-expansion.html
Mecca, which hosts millions of
pilgrims a year visiting Islam’s most holy shrine, is working
toward becoming the first city in  Saudi Arabia  to operate a
utility-scale plant generating electricity from renewables.  The city on Jan. 5 plans to select from a group of at least
20 bidders competing to build and operate facilities producing
385 gigawatt-hours per year of power including 100 megawatts of
solar capacity, said Mayor Osama al-Bar.  “No city in Saudi Arabia owns power-generation assets, and
we want to be first city that owns  power plants  and hopefully
the first in the Muslim world,” al-Bar said in an interview on
Sept. 16 in the nation’s capital, Riyadh.  The plans are the latest indication that the desert kingdom
is stepping up efforts to diversify its sources of energy as
economic and population growth threaten to erode Saudi Arabia’s
status as the world’s biggest oil exporter.  The central government is seeking $109 billion of
investment for building a solar industry, aiming to get a third
of Saudi Arabia’s power from the sun by 2032 compared with
almost none now. The target is almost as much as the $136
billion invested worldwide in solar energy last year, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Mecca’s Influence  Mecca’s program complements that work and may provide a
guide for other Middle Eastern cities on how to adopt the
technology, said Adnan Amin, director general of the
International  Renewable Energy  Agency.  “The project is very visionary as Mecca has special
significance around the world,” Amin, from the Abu Dhabi-based
industry organization, said in an interview in  London  on Sept.
18. “The case is very simple. In 25 years, they (Saudi Arabia)
could become net importers of energy. That makes renewables
comparatively cheaper.”  Mecca is located 70 kilometers inland south of the Red-Sea
port of  Jeddah . The city is the birthplace of Islam and it has
around 2 million residents and it hosts more than triple that
number every year. For the over 1.3 billion Muslims around the
world, each person must visit the city at least once to perform
pilgrimage in his life time.  Saudi Arabia depends on oil for 86 percent of its annual
revenue and is accelerating exploration for natural gas and
planning to develop solar and nuclear power to preserve more of
its valuable crude for export. Less than 1 percent of its energy
came from renewables last year, according to data from  BP Plc. (BP/)   Sunnier Than Greece  The nation gets more than twice the sunshine of anywhere in
 Europe  and about as much as the brightest parts of the south-
western U.S.  Research  at the King Fahd University of Petroleum &
Minerals in Dhahran estimated Saudi solar radiation between 4.5
to 7 kilowatts per square meter a day in the kingdom.  Greece  by
comparison measured 1.7 kilowatts, according to the European
Photovoltaic Industry Association.  The Saudi program is being managed by the King Abdullah
City for Atomic and Renewable Energy, a government-backed
institution independent of the energy ministry and Saudi Arabian
Oil Co., the state oil company known as Aramco.  In Mecca, groups competing for the work include Saudi
Binladin Group and ACWA Power International, the mayor said.
Work on the project should start in June next year with
completion within five years.  Mix of Fuel  Some of the facilities will be fuelled by a mix of fossil
fuel, wind, or biomass, al-Bar said. The electricity from the
project will be used for lighting and in 35 tunnels, helping
defray some of the 100 million-riyals ($26.6 million) a year
Mecca spends on electricity. The province is the biggest power
consumer among Saudi Arabia’s 13 regions.  “We are open to all options, but solar must be there and
then other renewable sources can go into the mix,” he said.
Mecca produces 4,000 metric tons a day of garbage that also can
be fed into power plants, al-Bar said.  Saudi Arabia’s electricity demand is growing 8 percent a
year to keep up with a 3.2 percent annual increase in the
population, which numbered more than 25 million in 2011,
according to government figures. Mecca hosted 5.8 million
pilgrims in first nine months of this year and expects another
1.8 million visitors by the end of 2012.  The kingdom aims to generate as much energy from solar
cells as it pumps out of the ground to export in the form of
crude, Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  said in a speech in Krakow,
 Poland , in June 2011. He said the nation has the potential to
produce enough solar power to meet four times current world
electricity demand.  Contract Terms  The developer on the Mecca solar contracts will be able to
operate the plants until it can recoup its investment, the mayor
said. The bidder offering the shortest contractual period will
win the business, according to Mecca’s municipal authorities.  “During the Build-Own-Transfer contract duration,
generators will be selling electricity to  Saudi Electricity Co. (SECO) ,
and after the contract ends, the city will own the power plants
and it will sell electricity just like any other independent
producer in the country,” he said.  The kingdom currently has about 3 megawatts of solar
installations, trailing  Egypt ,  Morocco ,  Tunisia ,  Algeria  and the
 United Arab Emirates , according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The Saudi government targets 41,000 megawatts of solar
capacity within two decades. That would save as much as 523,000
barrels a day of oil equivalent, according to Ka-Care.  That target is “not just a short-term measure to meet
energy demand,” said Amin of the Irena industry group.  “It’s a strategic approach through which Saudis are slowly
beginning to compensate for internal consumption and to develop
the possibility that they can become exporters of renewable
energy, particularly solar,” he said. “It’s at the beginning
point, but it’s happening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wael Mahdi in  Riyadh  at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  