-- Hedge Funders, Puppet Terrier for Soane: Scene in London
-- B y   D a n i e l   T .   B i l l y
-- 2012-09-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/hedge-funders-puppet-terrier-for-soane-scene-in-london.html
Black London taxis disgorged guests
at the Royal Hospital Chelsea for the  Sir John Soane’s Museum 
gala last Thursday night.  Among the arrivals was Christian Levett, founder of hedge
fund Clive Capital LLP, and David Howden, chief executive
officer of Hyperion Insurance Group Ltd. Both decided against
the more colorful of the two dress options, black tie or
“Regency costume.”  Less sartorially timid were Alison Gowman, a partner in the
law firm  DLA Piper , and Howden’s wife, Fiona.  It was all in celebration of Soane, the architect who
designed several buildings at the Royal Hospital in the early
19th century, and in support of the highly personal museum he
began to assemble at that time.  Women in empire gowns and men with long silk coats over
ruffled shirts strolled across the manicured lawn of the
hospital’s Figure Court.  A re-enactor dressed as Mrs. Soane carried a replica of
her favorite Manchester terrier, Fanny.  As the setting sun caught the gilt on a statue of Charles
II, a trio from the Royal College of Music played. Was 1812
really this civilized?  Cutting the finest figure, period-wise, was Soane Museum
director Tim Knox, in buff breeches and dark cutaway.  Great Hall  “We are here to celebrate not only what Soane achieved in
his lifetime, but how his legacy has endured and blossomed in a
way that he could never have thought possible,” Knox said
during the banquet in the Great Hall.  It’s in a building designed by Christopher Wren, and large
portraits of royalty gazed down on guests at long oak tables
eating Cornish crab and venison in red wine.  They included Basil Postan, chairman of the Sir John
Soane’s Museum Trust, and John and Cynthia Gunn of  San Francisco .  Knox said the goal was “to create an endowment of 10
million pounds over the next few years which will provide a
cushion of independence for the museum.” That’s about $16
million.  The dinner, whose costs were underwritten by several 
friends of the museum, netted 375,000 pounds plus a separate 
pledge of 37,000 pounds, according to Chas A. Miller III, 
executive director of the Sir John Soane's Museum Foundation.  (Daniel T. Billy is an editor with the Muse arts and
leisure team. Any opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on television,  Elin
McCoy  on wine and  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art.  To contact the writer on this story:
Daniel Billy in London at  dbilly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  