-- Hedge Funds Cut Bets as Prices Drop Most Since June: Commodities
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-09-24T20:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/hedge-funds-cut-bets-as-prices-drop-most-since-june-commodities.html
Hedge funds  cut bullish commodity
bets for the first time this month as weaker manufacturing from
 China  and  Europe  eclipsed central banks’ efforts to boost
growth, driving down prices the most since June.  Money managers decreased their net-long  positions  across 18
U.S. futures and options by 1.7 percent to 1.307 million
contracts in the week ended Sept. 18, halting two weeks of gains
that had sent holdings to a 16-month high, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot  Index (SHCOMP)  of 24 raw materials dropped 4.4 percent last week,
the first retreat since the end of July.  Chinese  manufacturing  may contract for an 11th month in
September, and euro-area services and output plunged to a 39-
month low, according to reports on Sept. 20. U.S. jobless claims
were higher than expected by analysts, Labor Department data
showed. Global equity markets lost $603.2 billion of value last
week amid increasing concern that the  Federal Reserve ,  European
Central Bank , People’s Bank of China and the  Bank of Japan  have
failed to do enough to accelerate growth.  “A structural shift in  China’s economy  and European
economic woes will put pressure on prices of commodities,” said
Chad Morganlander, the  Florham Park , New Jersey-based fund
manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about $120
billion of assets. “China over the last few years has
artificially torqued their economy, which has created demand for
industrial commodities and energy. The world is starting to see
sobering signs of a hangover from those actions.”  Commodities Drop  The drop by the S&P GSCI last week was the first since July
27. The MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWO)  of equities fell 0.7
percent last week, and the dollar gained 0.6 percent against a
measure of six major trading partners. Treasuries returned 0.5
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index showed.  Nineteen commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI fell last
week, led by a 6.7 percent drop in soybeans and a 6.2 percent
plunge in crude oil. Cocoa declined 4.6 percent and corn slid
4.3 percent. The gauge dropped as much as 1.5 percent today, led
cocoa, silver and aluminum.  China’s equities slumped after the purchasing managers’
index report by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed
the gauge fell to 47.8 so far this month from 47.6 in August,
poised for the longest streak below the expansion-contraction
line of 50 in the survey’s eight-year history. China is the
world’s biggest consumer of everything from copper to pork to
soybeans. The U.S. is the largest user of crude oil and corn.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 4.6 percent last week,
the most since the end of October, on the manufacturing report
and escalating tension with  Japan  over ownership of islands in
the  East China Sea  that may threaten trade.  Auto Slump  Dongfeng Automobile Co., which makes light trucks in China
with Nissan Motor Co., slumped to the lowest in 11 months as a
Japanese auto group said the island dispute will hurt car sales.
Jiangxi Copper Co., the country’s biggest copper producer, fell
2.1 percent last week, the first decline since Aug. 31.  China’s largest ship owners said on Sept. 21 that a slump
may continue as more vessels enter service and  economic growth 
slows. The industry globally probably won’t “bottom out” for
at least another two years, said  Xu Lirong , the general manager
of China Shipping Group Co., the country’s second-largest
shipping company.  Euro-area services and manufacturing output fell as
European leaders struggled to reverse the single-currency bloc’s
slide into recession, London-based Markit Economics said. A
composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers in both
industries in the 17-nation euro area dropped to 45.9 from 46.3
in August, the lowest since 1973 and below economists’ forecast
for a reading of 46.6, Markit said.  European Recession  The euro-area’s economy is heading for a second straight
quarterly contraction after a 0.2 percent decline in the three
months through June, as fallout from the debt crisis damps
consumer spending and corporate investment. ECB President  Mario
Draghi  pledged Sept. 6 an unlimited bond-purchase program to
regain control of  interest rates  and fight speculation of a
currency breakup.  Advances in commodities may be ending on mounting concern
that the Federal Reserve’s plan to revive U.S. economic growth
won’t work. The central bank said Sept. 13 that it will buy $40
billion of mortgage debt a month and hold the benchmark interest
rate near zero percent through at least mid-2015. The moves are
the Fed’s third round of stimulus, known as quantitative easing.  ‘Debt Problems’  “It is very clear that Europe’s economic and debt problems
are by no means behind us,” said Adrian Day, who manages about
$170 million of assets as president of Adrian Day Asset
Management in Annapolis,  Maryland . “For stimulus to have a
meaningful, sustained impact on commodities other than gold,
stimulus must translate into great economic activity, and that
has not happened so far.”  Output concerns globally will underpin commodity prices,
and they will rally, said Jonathan Guyer, the chief investment
officer of Longview Funds Management LLC in Columbia, Maryland,
which oversees about $19 million of assets.  “There are many drivers of commodities returns, including
weather issues and supply disruptions,” Guyer said. Prices will
continue to get a boost as the worst U.S. drought since 1956
curbs grain and oilseed production and as tension in the Middle
East crimp oil output, he said.  Investors added $2.36 billion to raw-material funds in the
week ended Sept. 19, according to EPFR Global. Precious metals
accounted for $1.8 billion of the inflows, the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based company said.  Gold Holdings  Funds increased their  bets  on higher crude prices by 5.6
percent to 214,647 contracts, the fifth consecutive gain. Prices
dropped to a six-week low of $90.66 a barrel on Sept. 20.  Gold holdings rose 7.7 percent to 178,426 contracts, the
fifth straight advance and the most since Feb. 28, CFTC data
show. Futures, which rose to $1,790 an ounce on Sept. 21 in  New
York , the highest since Feb. 29, dropped today as much as 1.1
percent before trading down 0.8 percent at $1,763 an ounce.  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators
decreased bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 7.3
percent to 774,580 contracts, the second decline and the biggest
since June. Soybean futures reached a five-week low of $16.075 a
bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade. Cocoa slid to $2,521 a
metric ton on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  “The commodity super-cycle is over,” said  Jack Ablin , who
helps oversee about $60 billion of assets as chief investment
officer of BMO Private Bank in Chicago. “In the past 10 years,
we’ve seen a spectacular move into commodities. We don’t think
we’ll see a repeat of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  