-- Telecom Italia Urged by Fossati to Spin Off Fixed Network
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-09-24T16:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/telecom-italia-urged-by-fossati-to-spin-off-fixed-network.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  would gain much-
needed funds to revive growth and cut debt by spinning off its
fixed-lined network, its second-biggest shareholder said.  “The time is ripe to go ahead with the spinoff,” Marco
Fossati, whose family’s Findim Group SA owns about 5 percent of
Italy’s biggest phone company, said in an interview. “This
opportunity should not be wasted as the right conditions may be
now, in the next two or three months, or never.”  Fossati’s comments raise the pressure on Telecom Italia
Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe, who said last week the
company plans to decide by the end of the year whether to spin
off the network and allow other investors to take a stake. While
the move would lessen the Milan-based company’s control over one
of its biggest assets, it could free up resources to reduce debt
that is currently double its market value.  “Fossati’s public support shows there is increasing
pressure to go ahead with this deal,” said  Robin Bienenstock , a
London-based analyst for Sanford C Bernstein. “If Telecom
Italia can get the state to invest through Cassa Depositi while
keeping control of the network, that would be the best possible
outcome.”  Bernabe said last week there is an “open dialogue” with
state lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA about a possible
investment in the network, adding that “other investors such as
infrastructure funds may be interested in this project.”  Keeping Control  Telecom Italia hasn’t specified other details of a
potential spinoff yet, apart from saying that it wants to keep
control of the network. In April, Bernabe said for the first
time the company may consider separating its fixed-access
network from its other business.  The operator’s fixed-line access network may be valued at
between 13 billion euros ($16.9 billion) and 15 billion euros,
according to Fossati. Funds raised from the sale of a stake in
the grid could be used to cut debt or increase investments,
Fossati said.  Telecom Italia forecasts adjusted net debt to fall to about
27.5 billion euros at the end of this year from 30.4 billion
euros at the end of June.  In August, the company said first-half earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization declined 1.6
percent to 5.86 billion euros. Domestic fixed-line revenue
dropped 2.9 percent to 6.47 billion euros and mobile sales in
 Italy  fell 3.4 percent to 3.38 billion euros.  State Investment  Telecom Italia fell 2 percent to 79.7 euro cents in Milan
trading today, valuing the company at 14.8 billion euros. The
stock has dropped 4.1 percent this year, compared with a 1.5
percent decline of the 23-member Bloomberg Europe
Telecommunications Services index.  Fossati said an investment by the state lender would
underline the “strategic nature” of the asset for the
government. Bernabe has said that Telecom Italia would keep
control of its access network, a condition also seen as
“essential” to the plan by Fossati.  Societe Generale SA analysts said in a July 30 note that
Telecom Italia would probably only recapitalize the network
through new investors and not sell it. A stumbling block could
be a potential demand by the state to separate the network as an
independent legal entity to allow competitors to take a stake,
the analysts said, adding that such an approach would be harsher
than previous cases of network separation in other European
markets such as the U.K.  Investments Needed  In Britain, former monopoly  BT Group (BT/A)  established its
Openreach unit in 2006, following an agreement with watchdog
Ofcom to allow rivals to access its network. Other operators can
buy services from BT on the same terms as the British company’s
own businesses and Openreach’s engineering and systems
capabilities are separate from the rest of the company.  In 2008, Telecom Italia created the Open Access division to
manage the grid, bowing to regulatory pressure to improve access
for competitors. Additional investors for Telecom Italia’s
network would help to speed up necessary upgrades and enable
companies and consumers to benefit from new digital services to
boost economic growth, Fossati said.  Countries and companies are relying on fast broadband
access to improve business processes, cut red tape and reduce
spending as new applications such as remote health monitoring
develop. Research cited by the European Commission indicates
that a 10 percent  increase in the broadband penetration  might be
able to boost gross domestic product by about 1 percent.  Faster Networks  The biggest shareholder of Telecom Italia is holding
company Telco SpA, through which  Spain ’s Telefonica SA and
partners Mediobanca SpA, Assicurazioni Generali SpA and Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA own about 22.5 percent of the operator.  Fossati also said the roll-out of new and faster broadband
services in Italy should be based on Telecom Italia’s network.  Telecom Italia this month signed a cooperation accord with
Fastweb SpA, controlled by  Swisscom AG (SCMN) , to share costs and
investments in the construction of their high-speed next-
generation networks.  The accord is open to other operators interested in co-
investing in infrastructure based on the fiber-to-the-cabinet,
or FTTCab, technology that runs cables to a street-level cabinet
and then connects it to homes via copper wiring. Network company
Metroweb SpA, whose investors include Cassa Depositi e
Prestiti’s Fondo Strategico, plans to roll out fiber in some
Italian cities adopting the so-called fiber-to-the-home
technology, which brings fiber directly to homes and offices.  “There are no resources to waste, so rolling out two
networks, it’s not doable,” Fossati said. “And Telecom
Italia’s existing grid is the best starting point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  