-- Telefonica Said to Lure Germans With Payout Ended in Spain
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-09-24T16:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/telefonica-said-to-lure-germans-with-dividends-it-ended-in-spain.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , the Spanish phone
company that has halted shareholder payouts to protect its  debt
ratings , will use high dividends to attract investors to a share
sale by its German unit, said three people familiar with the
matter.  As banks prepare to gauge interest for O2 Germany’s 1.5
billion-euro ($1.9 billion) initial public offering, Telefonica
is considering paying about 500 million euros in dividends next
year with a payout ratio of more than 90 percent of the local
unit’s net income, said two of the people, asking not to be
identified because the plans aren’t public. The stock may start
trading in Frankfurt at the end of October, they said.  With phone companies from the Netherlands to France cutting
dividends to preserve cash, Madrid-based Telefonica is betting
higher payouts will offset O2’s small size in  Germany , where
mobile accounts outnumber people. O2 Germany’s payout relative
to profit would compare with a European average of about 65
percent, according to an estimate by German Garcia, a Madrid-
based analyst at Ahorro Corp. Financiera.  “The company needs to offer an attractive dividend,”
Garcia said. “The IPO in Germany is crucial for Telefonica if
it wants to preserve its  credit rating .”  Telefonica will also try to lure investors with the unit’s
revenue and market-share growth potential as well as Germany’s
safer macroeconomic environment than in  Spain , said two of the
people.  An official at Telefonica declined to comment on the German
IPO plan.  Since Tognum  Telefonica is discussing the sale of a 20 percent stake in
the unit for 1 billion euros to 1.5 billion euros, people
familiar with the matter have said. At the high end of the
range, the IPO would be the biggest in Germany since industrial-
engine maker  Tognum AG (TGM)  raised 1.8 billion euros in 2007.  Talanx AG, Germany’s third-biggest insurer, last week
revived its IPO plan after cutting the amount it aims to raise
to about 500 million euros.  Battered by declining profit at its domestic market,
Telefonica is selling assets, including stakes in its German and
Latin American businesses, to help pare more than 58 billion of
euros of debt. In July, Telefonica decided to scrap a 1.50 euro-
a-share dividend for 2012, and will resume paying half of the
amount starting in the fourth quarter of 2013.  Moody’s Investors Service, which lowered Telefonica’s
rating to Baa2 in June, said after the dividend suspension that
the phone company still faces a potential downgrade depending on
the Spanish sovereign debt situation and its effect on the
company.  ‘Huge Dividend’  Telefonica shares fell 0.8 percent to 11.26 euros in  Madrid 
today, valuing the company at 51.2 billion euros. Telefonica
shares have fallen 16 percent this year, while the Bloomberg
Europe Telecommunication Services Index is  down  1.5 percent. O2
Germany would have a market value of about 7.5 billion euros
based on the high end of the target.  “Unless Telefonica is willing to pay a huge dividend to
investors, combined with a low valuation, it seriously risks its
possibilities of a successful IPO in Germany,” said Luis Benguerel, a trader at Interbrokers in Barcelona.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are managing the IPO, while
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  have been hired as bookrunners, people familiar
with the matter have said.  E-Plus Rivalry  O2 Germany competes with Royal KPN NV’s E-Plus division in
Germany, where the two largest wireless network operators are
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   The Telefonica unit’s operating income before depreciation
and amortization, or Oibda, may climb to 1.43 billion euros next
year from 1.38 billion euros this year, and revenue may increase
to 5.43 billion euros from 5.32 billion euros, according to
estimates by Ahorro Corp.’s Garcia.  Operating cash flow, calculated as Oibda minus capex, may
climb 5 percent next year to 854 million euros, Garcia said.  The German business reported Oibda of 333 million euros
last quarter, a 12 percent increase from a year earlier. It had
wireless-service revenue of 789 million euros, almost the same
as E-Plus. The unit, which also offers fixed-line phone and
Internet services, had 18.8 million mobile-phone customers as of
June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  