-- Metro Booted From DAX as ‘Concrete Shoes’ Drag Down Stock
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-09-24T16:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/metro-booted-from-dax-as-concrete-shoes-drag-down-stock.html
Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s biggest
retailer, has spent much of the past four years trying to hive
off department stores, supermarkets and other assets. With
little to show for the effort other than a sinking stock price,
the nation’s benchmark index today hived off Metro instead.  Metro’s shares have  dropped  11 percent this year, meaning a
company that was once the world’s third-largest retailer is no
longer among the top 30 companies in Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  by
market value and exchange turnover.  Ejection from the DAX will make it even tougher for new
Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch to boost the stock price as
investors who track indices sell off. The 42-year-old German has
pledged to focus investment in the Cash & Carry wholesale unit
that sells directly to businesses -- the only one of Metro’s
 five main divisions  to grow last year -- and its Media-Saturn
electronics retailing business while cutting off investment in
assets it can’t sell.  Many analysts say the strategy will do little to help the
stock recover.  “Reshaping Metro is going to be very difficult,” said
Trung-Tin Nguyen, a hedge fund manager at Trimax Capital AG in
Zurich, who bought and sold 2 million euros ($2.6 million) of
the company’s shares in July. “It’s not a compelling long-term
investment.”  Metro’s  market value  has shrunk by almost two-thirds since
reaching an eight-year high of 21.8 billion euros in September
2007, when it was the world’s 14th-most valuable food or general
retailer in dollar terms. Its current market capitalization of
8.2 billion euros doesn’t earn it a spot in the top 40, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The shares dropped 1.2 percent to 25
euros in Frankfurt today.  Cordes Disposals  From a peak of 68 billion euros in 2008, Metro’s revenue
has fallen 1.8 percent. In 2009, U.K. grocer  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  surpassed
Metro in terms of sales to take the No. 3 spot among global food
and general retailers. If current growth trends continue,  Kroger
Co. (KR)  and Costco Wholesale Corp. may soon overtake Metro in
revenue, dropping the German company to No. 6 globally.  Under previous CEO Eckhard Cordes, the company sold its
Extra supermarkets and the Adler fashion chain. Last year Cordes
came close to selling Metro’s Kauhof department stores and said
he was considering a sale or partnership for Real, another chain
of supermarkets. Now Koch, who halted the Kaufhof sale in
January because of fragile markets, is largely giving up on
those units.  Online Future  The CEO plans to ramp up the fledgling online offering of
the consumer-electronics unit, which accounts for more than 30
percent of  sales . After 20 years of being Metro’s growth driver,
Media-Saturn, with stores under the Media Markt and Saturn
brands, has been a big contributor to the company’s woes. Among
the biggest missteps: It was a decade late to the Internet.  Saturn started selling electronic goods online in Germany
in October 2011, after launching Web sales in the Netherlands
and  Austria  the year before. Media Markt followed just this
January. Neither move did much to goose results as revenue at
Media-Saturn fell 0.9 percent in 2011, led by a 6.2 percent
decline in western European sales.  Many shareholders wonder why Metro is still investing in
physical stores when “the future is online,” said  Fabio Fazzari , an analyst at Equity Sim in Milan. “This is the real
point that is hitting the share price.”  It’s a similar struggle at the Real chain. The unit, which
accounts for 17 percent of sales, saw revenue last year fall 2.3
percent to 11.2 billion euros. While selling Real’s operations
abroad may be possible, Metro will have a harder time ridding
itself of the domestic stores, which have been losing market
share to discounters such as Aldi and Lidl, said Boris Planer,
an analyst at  Planet Retail  in Frankfurt.  ‘Concrete Shoes’  “Real supermarkets are a pair of concrete shoes,” Planer
said. “There is a certain chance of success in selling Real’s
eastern European business, but the biggest chunk of Real is the
German business and who is going to take it over?”  Metro is in advanced talks with two companies, including
French retailer Auchan, to sell Real’s non-German operations,
two people familiar with the negotiations said last month.  The retailer may be even keener to sell Kaufhof, a business
that has been on the block since 2008. In January, Metro halted
separate negotiations with Austrian real-estate company Signa
Holding GmbH and Berggruen Holdings, the owner of the competing
Karstadt chain.  “It’s going to be extremely difficult to find a suitable
bidder for the whole of Kaufhof,” said Raphael Moreau, a
London-based  analyst at Euromonitor International. “The format
is not very interesting” and is limited to Germany and  Belgium .  Wholesale Gains  Metro says selling Kaufhof remains part of the strategy,
though it may be difficult to find a buyer. German department
stores, which enjoy a grand tradition dating back to the 19th
century, have seen sales fall as shoppers turn to single-label
stores. The number of German department stores has declined by a
third since 2006, dropping to 247 at the end of 2011, according
to Euromonitor. Kaufhof sales fell 3.7 percent last year.  Cash & Carry, Metro’s wholesale unit, has been the lone
bright spot, gaining customers by developing its range of own-
brand products, introducing a delivery service, and expanding in
eastern  Europe  and  Asia .  Cash & Carry, which accounts for almost half of the
 company’s sales,  operates in 29 countries, with China, Poland
and  Russia  among those that Koch said he will focus on. Making
Cash & Carry the core business and “reining in its expansion is
the right thing to do,” said Sebastian Frericks, an analyst at
Bankhaus Metzler in  Frankfurt .  No Way Back?  Exiting the DAX means Metro will miss out on a 13 billion-
euro market. That’s the amount invested in exchange-traded funds
that replicate the index, according to Achim Matzke, head of
global index and technical research at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. The performance of MDAX, an index of midcap companies
that Metro joins today after leaving the DAX, is mirrored by one
exchange-traded fund, worth 850 million euros, Matzke said.  “The chances of coming back into the DAX are very
limited,” Matzke said. “They all want to change the strategy
to be better, but it’s not easy. In 24 years, only two stocks
came back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  