-- EU Lawmakers Ask Why Banks’ Rate-Rigging Culture Unchecked
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-24T12:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/eu-lawmakers-ask-why-banks-rate-rigging-culture-was-unchecked.html
A panel of European Union lawmakers
will ask regulators from three continents today why authorities
failed to crack down on a culture of rigging  interest rates .  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, will
testify to a European Parliament panel along with  Gary Gensler ,
chairman of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and
Masamichi Kono, board chairman of the International Organization
of Securities Commissions, in Brussels today.  Confidence in Libor, the benchmark interest rate for more
than $500 trillion of securities, plummeted following  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ’s admission in June that it submitted false rates. The
revelations provoked renewed calls for tougher oversight of the
financial system and pushed regulatory and criminal probes of
interbank lending rates to the top of the political agenda.  “The culture of the banking industry has not changed and
this culture was aided and abetted by regulatory failures,”
 Arlene McCarthy , the Labour lawmaker chairing today’s panel,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Barclays was fined 290 million pounds ($471 million), the
largest penalties ever imposed by regulators in the U.S. and
U.K., after admitting it submitted false London and euro
interbank offered rates. Its settlements with the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority, Gensler’s CFTC and the  U.S.
Department of Justice  are the first in an international
investigation into whether banks tried to manipulate Libor and
other benchmarks.  “It is time for a new or revised benchmark,” Gensler said
in prepared remarks for today’s hearing. It should be “a
healthy benchmark anchored in actual, observable market
transactions.”  Antitrust Probes  The rates scandal triggered probes by EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , who will also attend today’s
hearing, while the European Securities and Markets Authority and
the European Banking Authority are working on guidelines for
rates to avoid conflicts of interest in the benchmarks.  “I’m curious to see how authorities respond to what
amounts to the largest fraud in economic history,” Philippe
Lamberts, a Green lawmaker in the parliament, said in a
telephone interview.  The EU session is followed later this week by a report from
Martin Wheatley, managing director of the FSA, on a regulatory
overhaul of Libor.  Rate-riggers face harsher punishments in the EU in the wake
of the revelations. The parliament’s economic and monetary
affairs committee is preparing to vote on Oct. 8 to boost the
bloc’s sanctions against market abuse, including jail sentences
for bank staff found guilty of collusion to fix inter-bank
lending benchmarks.  Financial Penalties  The EU plans would also set financial penalties for
attempted manipulation of rates. The commission is also seeking
views on possible rules to overhaul Libor, Euribor and other
market benchmarks.  EU regulators are weighing options such as forcing  banks  to
provide real transaction data rather than estimates and
increasing the number of lenders involved in the rate setting.  “Reform does not need to take place at an EU level,” Syed Kamall, a conservative lawmaker representing London in the
European Parliament, said in an e-mail. “The commission is
looking for any excuse to regulate the City.”  Libor Alternative  Dan Doctoroff , chief executive officer of Bloomberg LP,
will also speak at the EU parliament event today.  In a Wall Street Journal editorial Aug. 2, Doctoroff
proposed an alternative to Libor dubbed the Bloomberg Interbank
Offered Rate, or Blibor, and offered to manage it as a service
to global financial markets. Bloomberg LP is the parent of
 Bloomberg News .  Material changes to the way Libor is calculated risk
invalidating millions of financial contracts, covering products
ranging from mortgages to derivatives, Wheatley, the U.K.’s
chief markets regulator, has said.  Any changes to the established Libor benchmark would need
to have a “carefully planned and managed transition in order to
limit disruption to the huge volume of outstanding contracts”
that reference it, Wheatley said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net 
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  