-- Exactly Whose Money Did the London Whale Lose?
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-09-23T22:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/exactly-whose-money-did-the-london-whale-lose-.html
Whose $6 billion did  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  lose during the now-infamous London Whale debacle?  Was it depositors’ money or shareholders’ money? Or was no
money lost at all? And was the whole thing the very “tempest in
a teapot” that Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  originally
called it?  What the bank has told us so far -- during its  news
conference  on May 10, in Dimon’s  two rounds  of  testimony before
Congress , and in the come-to-Jesus  live presentation  to analysts
on July 13 -- is that the man behind the trades, Bruno Iksil,
aka the London Whale, worked in the company’s chief investment
office. The CIO’s job, we have been told, is to invest the
difference between the $1.1 trillion in deposits the bank has on
hand from its customers and the $750 billion the bank has lent
out to corporate borrowers.  That $350 billion -- an awful lot of money even by Wall
Street’s standards -- was invested on a daily basis under the
direction of a well-respected banker, Ina Drew, who was paid
about $15 million a year for her services. Drew and her team
invested the $350 billion in short-term, seemingly safe
investments. The overall yield on the portfolio was about 2.6
percent, according to Dimon.  Dangerous Hedge  With Drew’s authorization -- but, Dimon insists, without
his knowledge -- Iksil took a $10 billion chunk of the $350
billion portfolio and made a proprietary bet in an obscure debt
index. (JPMorgan Chase likes to call Iksil’s gamble a
“hedge.”) For myriad reasons -- among them that the bet was
wrong and that Iksil had such a large position in the tranche
that escape would have been extremely costly -- JPMorgan Chase
has lost $5.8 billion, and counting.  To my mind, the money that Iksil lost was depositors’
money. Iksil worked for the CIO, where depositors’ money is
invested until it is lent out. The trade lost almost $6 billion
in cash, which we know is real because  hedge funds  such as Saba
Capital, run by wunderkind  Boaz Weinstein , and Blue Mountain
Capital staked out the other side of Iksil’s trade and made a
fortune. How could there be any confusion that the money Iksil
lost came from the bank’s depositors?  Not so fast, says JPMorgan Chase. When I wrote in passing
 last week  that I believed JPMorgan Chase depositors lost their
money as a result of the London Whale,  Joseph Evangelisti , the
bank’s head of communications, sandblasted me.  “That’s untrue,” he e-mailed. “We lost shareholder
money, not depositor money. Depositors have never lost a penny
from our institution.”  We debated it back and forth. Although I concede in this
instance no individual depositor lost his or her money, it’s
only because there was no run on the bank by depositors at the
same time the London Whale was being harpooned. Had depositors
suddenly lined up and wanted their $1.1 trillion back, not only
would JPMorgan Chase be kaput, but those depositors with more
than $250,000 in their accounts -- that is, above the limits of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. -- surely would have been
left with losses.  Liquidation Mode  Evangelisti wasn’t buying that either. He says the bank
would have had more than enough assets to sell in liquidation
mode to cover even those depositors with more than $250,000 in
their accounts.  “Depositors did not lose money -- that’s a fact,” he
reiterated. “And by the way, the $350 billion portfolio is
sitting on a $9 or $10 billion gain.” He added: “If what you
say is true, we would be taking money out of depositors’
accounts.”  But taking money out of depositors’ accounts is exactly
what banks do. People like you and me put money into banks
because they are perceived as safer than a mattress. In return,
we get access to our money whenever we want -- assuming everyone
doesn’t demand money at the same time -- plus a tiny sliver of
interest. (At the moment, checking deposits at Chase receive
0.01 percent annual interest, while savings deposits get a
whopping 0.30 percent annual interest.)  In effect, depository banks such as JPMorgan Chase,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp.  get our money for free
and then turn around and use it for all sorts of things,
including making loans to individuals and businesses that pay
much higher rates of interest than the banks pay their
depositors. This is banking 101. The London Whale fiasco also
taught us that sometimes banks use that money to make crazy,
proprietary bets on  interest rates  -- and sometimes that money
gets lost.  JPMorgan Chase wants us to believe that it was
shareholders’ money that was lost, not depositors’ money. There
is no question that  JPMorgan Chase’s stock  got hammered when the
full extent of the London Whale losses became known;
shareholders lost almost $25 billion, in addition to the $6
billion Iksil lost on his trades.  Now that the JPMorgan Chase stock has returned more or less
to where it was trading before the scandal, it’s safe to say
shareholders have lost nothing as a result of the London Whale
(except the time value of money over the period it recovered
what it had lost).  Evangelisti said depositors lost nothing and, in fact, the
CIO account has an embedded $10 billion unrealized gain. This
leaves me feeling a little like the casino executive in
“Ocean’s Eleven” who, upon realizing the casino’s vault had
just been robbed of close to $163 million, incredulously asks
Andy Garcia’s casino-owner character: “I don’t understand. What
happened to all that money?”  A month ago JPMorgan Chase announced that Lee Raymond, the
no-nonsense former CEO of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , would lead another
investigation by the board of directors into the London Whale
fiasco. One thing he might try to pin down is an explanation,
once and for all, of what exactly happened to all that money.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase, against which he lost
an arbitration case over his dismissal. His sister-in-law, Ellen Futter, is on JPMorgan Chase’s board of directors. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 