-- CAW Not Seeking New Jobs in Chrysler Talks, Lewenza Says
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-09-24T20:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/ford-s-union-workers-in-canada-approve-four-year-contract.html
The Canadian Auto Workers will not
ask for new jobs in labor negotiations with Chrysler Group LLC
and doesn’t expect to complete talks until the end of the week,
the union’s leader said today.  Agreements with  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) 
reached last week took three to five days of negotiating, and an
accord with Chrysler will likely take the same amount of time,
union President  Ken Lewenza  said by telephone from Toronto. The
union will demand no layoffs occur during a new Chrysler
contract, he said. The CAW represents about 8,000 Chrysler
workers.  “We want their business plan to show full employment for
the life of the collective agreement, obviously minus market
conditions,”  he said. LouAnn Gosselin, a Chrysler spokeswoman,
didn’t immediately answer an e-mail seeking comment.  Four-year accords with GM and Ford included commitments for
new jobs and investment in plants. The union said those plans
plus incentives for early retirement will mean none of its
members’ jobs will be eliminated.  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler doesn’t have any employees currently on layoff and
hasn’t announced plans to reduce its Canadian operations.  An agreement between Chrysler and the union would maintain
production of some of the company’s most important products.  The Dodge Grand Caravan and Chrysler Town & Country
minivans built in Windsor, Ontario, were the fourth- and fifth-
best selling models in the company’s lineup last year.
Deliveries of the 300 sedan, made at Brampton, Ontario, surged
158 percent this year through August, tied for the biggest gain
among its models.  Ford Ratification  Ford’s unionized employees ratified a four-year contract
that eliminates most cost-of-living raises in favor of bonuses,
extends the time it takes for a new employee to reach full pay
and adds 600 jobs. The CAW is seeking a similar agreement at
Chrysler.  The vote was 82 percent in favor at Ford, the Toronto-based
union said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Ford, based in
Dearborn,  Michigan , has about 4,500 CAW-represented workers in
Ontario. The union is scheduled to conduct a ratification vote
at GM on Sept. 26 and 27, according to a CAW  statement .  The CAW opened contract talks with Ford, GM and Chrysler
last month as the union struggles to keep jobs in  Canada  while
the companies said Canadian workers are too expensive compared
with other countries. The Canadian dollar has risen about 60
percent compared with its U.S. counterpart in the past decade.  ‘Too Costly’  The union reached a tentative agreement with Detroit-based
GM on Sept. 20. Negotiations with it and Chrysler continued
after a Sept. 17 strike deadline was extended indefinitely.  Traditionally, the first agreement reached between the CAW
and one of the U.S. automakers serves as a template for the
other two. Chrysler is saying the pattern set by Ford and GM is
too expensive, Lewenza said today.  “They’re just saying it’s too costly period,” he said.
“They’re a smaller company, less profitable.”  Lewenza said one sticking point for Chrysler is a cost-of-
living raise totaling 33 Canadian cents an hour (34 cents an
hour) that kicked in at the end of the previous contract, which
Chrysler wants removed from a new contract. Lewenza said the
increase was maintained with the other two companies and the
union will seek to maintain it with Chrysler.  The new agreements with Ford and GM largely do away with
raises. In the deal ratified Sunday Ford workers will receive
C$2,000 ($2,048) lump-sum payments in the contract’s second,
third and fourth years, as well as a C$3,000 ratification bonus.
The hourly rate for new hires will fall to C$20.40 from C$23.80
and the time to reach a base salary of C$34 will now be 10
years. It had taken six years, said Angelo DiCaro, a union
spokesman.  Retirement Plans  The Ford and GM contracts alter  retirement plans  for new
hires, moving half the pension into a defined-contribution plan
where workers are only guaranteed what they pay in. The rest
will come from the union’s defined benefit plan, which
guarantees a certain amount at retirement, and obliges the
company to make up the shortfall if the pension fund
underperforms.  Ford agreed to add a third shift at an Oakville, Ontario,
vehicle-assembly factory and bring some work in-house, which
will add about 300 jobs, the company said in a statement
yesterday. The automaker also plans “a product based on a new
global platform” at the plant that has the potential to add
about 300 additional jobs, according to Ford.  Ford gained “significant cost-savings,” according to the
statement from the company.  The CAW said it would keep bargaining with Chrysler until
progress faltered, and would then provide 24 hours’ notice
before striking.  Ford slipped 0.8 percent to $10.32 at the close in  New
York . GM shares fell 1.8 percent to $24.36.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  