-- German Business Confidence May Gain for First Time in Six
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-09-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/german-business-confidence-may-gain-for-first-time-in-six-months.html
German business confidence probably
climbed for the first time in six months in September after the
 European Central Bank  announced an unlimited bond-purchase
program to stem the sovereign debt crisis.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will rise to 102.5 from 102.3 in
August, according to the median forecast of 37 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . That would be the first increase since
March. Ifo releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  on Sept. 6 unveiled details of
plan to buy  government bonds  to fight speculation of a currency
breakup and regain control of  interest rates  in the euro area.
That’s boosted financial markets and helped to ease concerns
about the severity of the economic slowdown. German investor
confidence gained for the first time in five months in September
and gauges of activity in the manufacturing and service
industries rose more than economists forecast.  “The recent developments in Europe have created a positive
mood among businesses in  Germany ,” said Thilo Heidrich, an
economist at Deutsche Postbank AG in Bonn. “There is a feeling
that progress has been made and that we’ve passed the low point.
That gives hope for the months to come.”  Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations probably rose to
95 from 94.2, while a gauge of the current situation may have
slipped to 111 from 111.2, the survey shows.  Slower Growth  Growth in  Europe ’s largest economy slowed to 0.3 percent in
the second quarter from 0.5 percent in the first as export
demand from euro-area trading partners waned, prompting
companies to postpone investments.  Capital investment  fell 0.9
percent in the second quarter, with spending on plant and
machinery down 2.3 percent.  At least five of the 17 member countries of the euro area
are in recession, including Spain and Italy. The European
Commission forecasts a 0.3 percent economic contraction for the
region as a whole this year.  The German economy will expand 0.6 percent this year
compared with 3 percent last year, the Federal Labor Agency’s
IAB research institute said last week.  German carmaker  Daimler AG (DAI)  said on Sept. 20 that operating
profit at its Mercedes-Benz unit will fall this year, lowering a
previous target of matching the 2011 figure.  Porsche AG (PAH3) , another
German automaker, plans to build fewer than the 155,000 cars and
sport-utility vehicles originally planned for next year.  Outside Europe  Still, German exports to faster-growing markets outside
Europe and domestic spending are helping to insulate the economy
from the debt crisis.  Schaeffler AG, the roller-bearing maker that’s the biggest
shareholder in car-parts manufacturer Continental AG, said last
month it’s sticking to its forecasts for 2012 after demand from
outside Europe helped second-quarter sales to rise.  “The order situation for German companies has been getting
worse in the past months,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “However, the risks coming from
the debt crisis in Europe are smaller now and that’s why there
is kind of a mixed feeling among German businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  