-- Libya Islamists Arrest Opponents, Accept Army Control
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-09-24T17:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/libya-begins-push-to-secure-country-while-militias-disband.html
Libyan Islamist militias announced
a mass round-up of opponents they accused of instigating weekend
violence as one of their commanders said they’d accept the
appointment of an army officer to run the group.  The Rafallah al-Sahati militia, an Islamist group based in
Benghazi that occupied one of three militia bases stormed by
protesters on Sept. 21-22, said today that 113 people had been
held for involvement in the attack on their base.  “Most of them are former military people,” Ishmael
Salabi, who described himself as an assistant commander, said of
the detainees during an interview today. “These people have
been trying to get power. They were in power under Qaddafi and
now they have nothing.” Salabi, who said he was shot twice in
the leg during the weekend’s mass protests, wore a long white
silk robe marked with red spots on the thigh where blood had
leaked. Some of those held had been freed, he said.  The arrests signal a counter-push by the Islamist groups,
some of which have been blamed for the death of U.S. ambassador
Chris Stevens and three colleagues during a Sept. 11 attack on
the American consulate in Benghazi. While the weekend’s protests
caused the flight of two Islamist militias, others fought with
demonstrators, leaving at least four people dead.  Yesterday, the Libyan prime minister-elect’s spokesman said
army officers would bring the groups under central control.  “Our goal is to bring the militias under full control of
the government and the national army,” Ahmed Shalabi, a
spokesman for Mustafa Abushagur, said by phone. “We will start
with Benghazi by sending national army officers to all known
militia places and then continue throughout the country.”  ‘Accept Orders’  Salabi said his militia, which like several Libyan armed
groups has been authorized to carry arms,  would accept orders
from army commanders. “We accept orders” from the army’s chief
of staff, Salabi said.  The militia detentions, along with popular protests and
efforts by Abushagur to rein-in the armed groups, underscore the
fragile state of Libyan politics. Abushagur, named premier by
the newly-elected parliament this month, has yet to appoint a
Cabinet, while the old administration under Prime Minister
Abdurahim El Keib is still overseeing much of the day-to-day
business of government.  “This is part of the conflict between the remnants of the
old regime and the new regime, which is on the way in,” Khalil al-Anani, a political analyst at Durham University in the U.K.
said by phone. “The new government is still struggling to
control the state both geographically and politically.  Benghazi Protest  ‘‘There is sense of freedom among different political
factions -- not only in  Libya , but in the Arab world -- where
they think they can do anything, at any time, without being
under the rule of law,’’ he said.  Mohammed Bojenah, one of the organizers of the weekend’s
anti-Islamist Save Benghazi protests, called for renewed
demonstrations today. A small protest took place later, with
participants carrying pictures of the dead.  Abushagur said on Sept. 20 that eight Libyan nationals had
been arrested in connection with the killing of the four
Americans and that Ansar al-Shariah, an Islamist militia, was
one of the groups thought to be involved. Following the
protests, the group and another militia, the Abu Selim brigade,
said they had disbanded and vacated their bases in Derna, east
of Benghazi.  Authorities deployed troops to the vacated bases, with
military police units sent into three sites, including one that
had been the home of Ansar al-Shariah, said General Hamad
Belkkhair, the commander of the army garrison in Benghazi.  Tensions rose after the military issued a decree giving
unlicensed militias, or those involved in criminal activity, 48
hours to disband. Many of the groups, most of which either have
Islamist links or tribal or regional ties, played a key role in
last year’s uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Benghazi at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  