-- Milan Clubs Lose Serie A Matches; Real Madrid’s Game Postponed
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-09-23T23:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/milan-clubs-lose-serie-a-matches-real-madrid-s-game-postponed.html
Nine-man AC Milan fell to its third
defeat in four Serie A soccer matches this season as  Inter Milan 
also lost. Real Madrid’s game at Rayo Vallecano was put back a
day because of an electrical failure.  Milan is 15th in Italy’s top division after losing 2-1
yesterday at Udinese, which recorded its first win of the
campaign. The visiting team had Cristian Zapata and Kevin Prince Boateng red carded in the second half.  “At the moment it’s just Juventus who are doing really
impressive things,” Milan manager Massimiliano Allegri said in
comments on his team’s website. “The other teams are not going
at 90 miles an hour and there’s time to get back the positions
that we’ve lost now.”  Inter suffered a 2-0 home defeat against last-place Siena,
with Simone Vergassola and Francesco Valiani scoring in the
final 17 minutes.  Lazio, Napoli and Sampdoria all lost their 100 percent
records as Lazio was beaten 1-0 at Genoa and Napoli and
Sampdoria tied. Two days ago, defending champion Juventus
extended its perfect start with a 2-0 win against Chievo to lead
the standings with 12 points, two more than Napoli.  Real  Madrid ’s game against local rival Vallecano last night
was postponed because of a lack of sufficient lighting caused by
an electrical failure, the team said on its website. The match
was rescheduled to 7:45 p.m. local time today, the Liga de
Futbol Profesional, which runs Spain’s professional soccer
league, said in a statement.  Barcelona needed two goals in the closing minutes to beat
Granada 2-0 two days ago and keep its perfect start through five
games. Barcelona is 11 points ahead of 16th-place Madrid.  Real Mallorca is in second place with 11 points, four
behind Barca, after beating Valencia 2-0 yesterday.  Bundesliga Action  Hoffenheim ended Hanover’s unbeaten start with a 3-1 win
yesterday to record its first victory of the season and climb
two spots to 16th in  Germany ’s Bundesliga.  Stuttgart tied 2-2 at Werder Bremen and slips to 17th in
the 18-team league.  Bayer Leverkusen  and Borussia
Moenchengladbach drew 1-1 in yesterday’s other game.  Bayern Munich  and Eintracht Frankfurt lead the standings
following wins this weekend, 2-0 at Schalke, and 2-1 at Nurnberg
respectively.  Borussia Dortmund ’s 31-match unbeaten run ended
with a 3-2 loss at Hamburg.  Morgan Amalfitano got the only goal as Ligue 1 leader
Marseille notched its sixth straight win, with Lyon four points
back after a 1-1 draw at Lille. Paris Saint-Germain and Lorient
are six points off the lead. Defending champion Montpellier drew
1-1 at home against  Saint Etienne  on Sept. 21.  FC Twente  stretched its lead in Dutch soccer’s Eredivisie
to four points with a 1-0 win against Heerenveen yesterday.
Second-place  Vitesse Arnhem  tied Heracles 1-1 the previous day.  Ajax and  PSV Eindhoven  are a further two points back. Ajax
tied 1-1 at  Den Haag , while PSV beat Feyenoord 3-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 