-- India Routs England at World Twenty20, New Zealand Advances
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-09-24T01:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/india-beats-england-by-90-runs-in-icc-world-twenty20-cricket.html
India  routed defending champion
 England  by 90 runs at cricket’s World Twenty20 to top their
group.  New Zealand  joins both teams in the next stage even after
a defeat to Pakistan.  India was put in to bat and ended on 170-4, and England was
all out for 80 in 14.4 overs in last night’s Group A game in
Colombo,  Sri Lanka . It was England’s lowest total in Twenty20
internationals and its worst defeat in the game’s shortest form.  “Our performance was good,” captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni
said on the tournament’s website after India’s largest Twenty20
win in terms of runs. “Bigger teams await us and we need to be
consistent. In every match, we have to be at our best.”  Both teams had already guaranteed a place in the Super
Eight stage of the 12-nation tournament by beating Afghanistan.
Ireland faces the West Indies in the final Group B match today
with the winner joining pool leader Australia in the next phase.  Rohit Sharma top scored for India with 55 not out, while
 Gautam Gambhir  made 45 and Virat Kohli 40. Man of the match
 Harbhajan Singh  took 4-12 as only three England batsmen reached
double figures. Opener Craig Kieswetter was the highest scorer
with 35.  England captain  Stuart Broad  said his team can bounce back
from the loss.  “We’ve had a really bad day but it doesn’t change our
destiny,” he said. “Now we’ve got a job to do to refocus.”  Pakistan Wins  Pakistan earlier beat New Zealand by 13 runs in Group D in
Pallekele to get its campaign off to a winning start.  Man of the match Nasir Jamshed smashed 56 off 35 balls as
Pakistan made 177-6 from its 20 overs, with New Zealand 164-9 in
reply as spinner Saeed Ajmal took 4-30.  “My teammates gave me a lot of confidence in the dressing
room and just told me to play my normal and natural game,”
Jamshed said. “I hope I can now maintain these standards for
the rest of the tournament.”  Even after the loss, New Zealand advances on run rate.
 Pakistan  and Bangladesh meet tomorrow to decide the second team
to qualify from the three-team group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  