-- Islamic Cartoon Row, Flying Carpet Hang Over Louvre
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-09-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/islamic-cartoon-row-flying-carpet-hang-over-louvre.html
Amid the furor over an anti-Islam
video and new cartoons mocking the Prophet, the Louvre is
opening a new wing devoted to Islamic Art.  When  New York ’s  Metropolitan Museum  reopened its Islamic
wing last November, after eight years of renovation, it had been
rebaptized as “Galleries for the Art of the Arab Lands, Turkey,
 Iran , Central Asia and Later  South Asia .”  The Paris museum, with its even bigger collection of
Islamic art, wouldn’t dream of using such an unwieldy
paraphrase. The new department, which opened to the public on
Sep. 22, is simply called “Arts de l’Islam.”  It’s the first time that a substantial part of the
collection --some 3,000 out of 18,000 items -- is on view under
the same roof. Until now, a much smaller number had been divided
among various departments.  “Under the same roof” is to be taken literally. Because the
Louvre is bursting at the seams, a courtyard, the Cour Visconti,
has been transformed into a two-tiered exhibition space.  The Italian architects  Rudy Ricciotti  and Mario Bellini
have covered it with an undulating glass roof which they call
“the wing of a dragon fly.” Given its weight of 135 tons, this
is something of an understatement.  Others have compared the roof to a flying carpet and the
warm atmosphere it creates to the coziness of a Bedouin tent.
Whatever you prefer, it’s an original solution and a witty wink
at the Louvre’s famous glass pyramid.  Arab Royalty  Unusually for  France , the government footed less than one
third of the bill. About 43 million euros ($56 million) of the
98.5 million euros came from Arab royalty, 11.5 million from the
Louvre’s own piggy bank and some from private sponsors.  Islamic art, as you immediately understand when you enter,
is not limited to religious objects. The new wing covers the
entire civilization of the Muslim world from North Africa to
 India  in the years until 1800.  Before 1492, when the “Moors” were driven out of  Spain , the
Iberian Peninsula was an important center of Islamic
architecture and decorative art, enriched with Gothic elements.
This kind of cross-fertilization is also typical of other
regions.  Nevertheless, as a stroll through the two floors makes
abundantly clear, certain leitmotifs appear again and again --
floral or geometrical patterns and Arabic calligraphy. You find
them on carpets, vases, pottery, book covers, ivory carvings and
metal work.  Turkish Wall  One of the most impressive, certainly the biggest item is a
12-meter (40 foot) tiled wall from Ottoman  Turkey  covered from
top to bottom with floral decorations.  Contrary to popular belief, the Koran doesn’t forbid images
of living creatures. It’s obvious, though, that most Muslim
artists preferred abstract ornament to the imitation of nature.  That makes the exceptions from the rule so exciting.  One of the highlights is an ivory casket from Cordoba,
Spain, probably a coming-of-age present for the Caliph’s son.
Just six inches high, its exterior is teeming with no less than
69 humans and animals.  Another gem is the so-called Baptistere de Saint Louis, an
inlaid bronze basin with wonderful scenes from the Mamluk court
in Cairo. The French royal family used it as the baptismal font
for its princes.  Space and astronomy lovers will head straight to the
celestial globe from 12th-century Isfahan, Persia, the oldest of
the Islamic world. It’s covered with 1,025 inlaid silver dots,
each one representing a star.  “Arts de l’Islam” is on permanent show at the Louvre, Place
du Louvre, 75058 Paris. Information: +33-1-40-205050 or
 http://www.louvre.fr/en/opening-new-department-islamic-art   (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Greg Evans 
on U.S. television.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 