-- Mitt Romney Won’t Lower Americans’ Taxes
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   &   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-09-23T22:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/mitt-romney-won-t-lower-americans-taxes.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  has one potential response to working Americans
angered by the 14.1 percent federal income tax rate he paid in
2011: If elected, he would lower taxes for everybody.  Or would he?  As Romney tries to project a kinder, gentler image to
voters, we’re going to hear a lot about how regular families
will benefit from his policies. A central part of his charm
offensive will be  his proposal  to cut tax rates by a fifth.  Problem is, Romney has also promised that his tax reforms
will be revenue neutral. This means the government will take the
same number of dollar bills out of our collective wallets.
Although tax rates might fall by a fifth, the tax burden won’t
change. It will simply be rearranged.  Romney’s proposal is a standard prescription among budget
wonks: “Lower the rates, broaden the base.” In other words, he
plans to take a smaller share of each dollar of income, but make
more of that income taxable. He could achieve that, for example,
by limiting deductions such as those for mortgage interest,
retirement savings or charitable contributions. (Romney used the
charitable-contribution deduction to reduce his taxable income
by $2.25 million in 2011.)  Traditional Argument  The traditional Republican argument for tax cuts is that
people will work more, and hence boost the economy, if marginal
rates are lower -- that is, if people get to keep a larger share
of each extra dollar they earn. In the extreme version of this
story, made popular when marginal tax rates were as high as 70
percent, cuts might even lead people to work so much more that
the government gets just as much revenue from them as it would
with the higher rates. No serious economist  actually believes 
cuts in current rates could increase revenue, but most agree
that a reduction in the marginal tax burden increases the
incentive to work.  The Republican enthusiasm for tax cuts, though, doesn’t
apply to Romney’s reform. That’s because his plan tinkers with
statutory tax rates (the rates written in the law), while the
loss of deductions will probably leave unchanged marginal
effective rates (the share of each extra dollar in income we
actually pay). This point has been made forcefully by  Alex Brill 
and Alan Viard, both economists at the right-leaning  American
Enterprise Institute , who  wrote that  “lowering statutory tax
rates while broadening the income tax base generally does not
reduce work disincentives because it leaves the relevant
effective tax rates unchanged.”  To be sure, outcomes would be different for individual
families. Currently, if you buy a better health-care plan or a
bigger house or if you put more of your money in tax deferred
savings, the dollars you spend on these items are excluded from
your taxable income. If Romney limits any of these deductions,
families that depend on them heavily (most likely the  middle
class ) could end up with a higher marginal tax burden, while
families that never used them could be taxed less. As a result,
some might get a stronger incentive to work, while others might
face a weaker incentive.  We don’t know the implications for your family, because
Romney has refused to spell out just what base-broadening
changes would offset the lower statutory rates. Those who want
more specifics from Romney on his tax plan are right to keep
pressing him. He’s proposing a large-scale redistribution of
income without saying who will gain and who will lose. In such
an opaque situation, it’s reasonable for a cautious voter to
assume the worst.  Perverse Incentives  Reforming our tax system remains an important priority.
Broadening the tax base is central to many proposals, including
those of the Simpson-Bowles deficit reduction commission, the
Domenici-Rivlin debt reduction task force and President  Barack Obama . The logic of these reforms is that, whether or not we
want to raise more revenue, we should eliminate the perverse
incentives our  tax code  creates -- for example, by rewarding
people for taking on debt to buy a house. Eliminating deductions
would eliminate the distortions.  Romney’s rationale for tax reform seems to be based on a
more cynical political logic. He is campaigning on the parts of
his plan that would lower voters’ tax burden, while hoping
they’ll forget about the equal and opposite parts that will
raise it. In reality, he’s not planning to cut taxes at all.  (Betsey Stevenson is an associate professor of public
policy at the  University of Michigan . Justin Wolfers is an
associate professor of business and public policy at the
 University of Pennsylvania , and a non-resident senior fellow of
the  Brookings Institution . Both are Bloomberg View columnists.
The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  GM must remain Government
Motors  awhile longer, on making  air conditioners more green  and
on why  Europe must get its banking union back on track ; William
D. Cohan on  JPMorgan’s missing $6 billion ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the
 best way to handle Iran ;  Jeff Rubin  on  the end of growth ; Luigi
Zingales on why  Romney would have done better than Obama .  To contact the writers of this article:
 Justin Wolfers  at  jwolfers@wharton.upenn.edu 
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@wharton.upenn.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 