-- Japan Stock Futures Drop as Europe Debt Talks Deadlocked
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-09-23T23:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/japan-stock-futures-drop-as-europe-debt-talks-deadlocked.html
Japanese  stock futures  fell amid
concern that talks among European leaders to resolve the
region’s debt crisis are deadlocked, curbing the earnings
outlook for Asian exporters. Australian equity futures were
little changed.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Canon Inc. (7751) , the Japanese
camera maker that gets 30 percent of its sales in Europe, slid
0.8 percent. Shares of  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  may be active
after an executive of Japan’s state-backed corporate rescue fund
said it may join the nation’s largest manufacturers to take over
the unprofitable Japanese chipmaker, countering a bid by U.S.
private-equity firm KKR & Co.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 9,035 in Chicago on Sept. 21, down from 9,060
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,030 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index were little changed today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.1 percent in Wellington.  “A period of consolidation in the month ahead looks the
more likely outcome,” said George Boubouras, Melbourne-based
head of investment strategy at UBS AG’s Australian wealth
management unit. The Swiss bank has about $1.5 trillion in
assets under management. “In Europe, there will continue to be
some lingering challenges. As we approach the end of the
quarter, investors will fine-tune and adjust their portfolios
across all the asset classes. This will include some profit
taking and portfolio rotation.”  Annual Gain  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  index climbed 8.5 percent this year
through the end of last week and 5.4 percent this quarter as
central banks in Europe, the U.S. and Japan took action to
stimulate economic growth. That compares with a 2012 gain of 16
percent on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a 13 percent
advance on the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)  The Asian benchmark
traded at 12.8 times estimated earnings compared with 14.1 for
the S&P 500 and 12.2 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Last week, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.1 percent,
halting a two-week advance, as an escalating territorial dispute
between Japan and China and signs of a deeper economic slump
overshadowed unexpected stimulus measures by the  Bank of Japan .  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.1
percent today.  Consumer spending  in the U.S. probably stagnated
in August after adjusting for inflation, showing the economic
expansion is struggling to gain momentum, economists said before
a report due Sept. 28.  Europe Deadlock  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  underlined Franco-German disagreement over the
weekend as they clashed on a timetable to introduce joint
oversight of the region’s banking sector, with Merkel rebuffing
Hollande’s appeal to activate it “the earlier, the better.”  China’s  manufacturers  and retailers are less optimistic
about sales than they were three months ago and more companies
are cutting jobs, according to a survey modeled on the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s  Beige Book .  The China Beige Book, through interviews of more than 2,000
company executives and bankers from Aug. 9 to Sept. 3, found
limits to monetary easing after interest-rate cuts in June and
July, with banks loosening credit while fewer companies are
borrowing, according to a summary from CBB International LLC,
the New York-based researcher that conducted the survey.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 2.2 percent last week to
91.88.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  