-- Renesas Surges 31% as Japan Fund May Counter KKR Offer
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-09-24T10:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/japan-s-rescue-fund-may-counter-kkr-bid-for-chipmaker-renesas.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  jumped
the most in about a month in Tokyo trading as a Japanese state-
backed fund may join two of the nation’s largest manufacturers
in a bid for the unprofitable chipmaker, countering an offer
from  KKR & Co. (KKR)   The stock surged by the daily limit of 80 yen, or 31
percent, to close at 336 yen after not trading almost the entire
day. Trading wasn’t possible as bids to buy the stock of the
world’s biggest maker of microcontrollers outnumbered sells.  Japanese companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  may join with  Innovation Network Corp. of Japan 
to invest more than 100 billion yen ($1.3 billion) for a
majority stake in Renesas, a government official said today,
declining to be identified because the plan hasn’t been made
public. The plan for the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  supplier was reported by the
Nikkei newspaper Sept. 22.  “The plan looks positive as it means boosting the
company’s capital and getting the money needed to invest in
microcontroller facilities,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps
oversee $6.7 billion at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  Joichi Tachikawa, a spokesman for Toyota, and Atsushi
Hinoki, a spokesman for Panasonic, declined to comment. Yoichi Kobayashi, a spokesman for Renesas, wasn’t immediately available
to comment.  Hitachi, Nintendo  Innovation Network may offer financial support to Renesas
if asked, an executive of the investment fund said Sept. 22,
declining to be identified because of company policy. Renesas
stock has declined 29 percent this year.  KKR, a New York-based private-equity firm, offered about
100 billion yen to banks and the three  main shareholders   NEC
Corp. (6701) ,  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503)  for control of
Renesas, a person with knowledge of the matter said last month.
Shares of the Kawasaki, Japan-based company surged by a record
in Tokyo after reports of the bid.  Renesas, whose customers include Nintendo Co., is trying to
end losses exacerbated by falling demand for its system LSI
chips, used for functions ranging from processing images for TV
screens to crunching data. It plans to cut 5,000 jobs and may
close or sell as many as nine of 18 domestic factories to help
end losses.  Samsung, Micron  NEC, Hitachi and Mitsubishi Electric said in July they
would provide 49.5 billion yen in loans to Renesas. Banks
including  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. (8411)  and  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. (8309)  have agreed
to continue offering about 50 billion yen in lines of credit to
the chipmaker, two people with knowledge of the matter said in
May.  Japan ’s chipmakers have struggled as  South Korea ’s  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  extended its dominance. Boise, Idaho-based
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  agreed in July to buy Tokyo-based Elpida
Memory Inc. after Elpida filed for  bankruptcy protection .  Innovation Network has been considering ways to help revive
the nation’s chipmaking industry, the fund executive said Sept.
22, adding that there’s been nothing decided on the timing or
extent of any support for Renesas.  The fund said in June it would raise 4 billion yen through
a private placement of shares to eight companies including
Toyota,  Canon Inc. (7751)  and Sony Corp.  Earthquake, Tsunami  Renesas plans to sharpen its focus on producing
microcontrollers, used in automobiles and TVs. The business
offers an operating profit margin of at least 10 percent,
Renesas said in June.  The company held a 27 percent share of the global
microcontroller market last year, making it the world’s largest
supplier of the devices. It plans to raise that share to 35
percent in five years by targeting  emerging markets , and an
alliance with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. will help
cut costs and widen profit margins, Renesas said in June.  About 50 microcontrollers are used in car navigation
systems, monitors, dashboard meters and audio systems, according
to Renesas. Damage to the chipmaker’s plant northeast of  Tokyo 
from the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami crippled output at
automakers in Japan for months.  During the disruption, carmakers turned to supplies from
companies including Globalfoundries Inc. and Freescale
Semiconductor Ltd.  “Renesas’ technology is very high-tech, and we hope we’ll
be able to maintain a stable supply of their products,” Takeshi Uchiyamada, a vice chairman of Toyota, said today in Tokyo.  Renesas forecasts it will return to an  operating profit 
this fiscal year, it  said  Aug. 2. Operating profit, or sales
minus the cost of goods sold and selling, general and
administrative expenses, may total 21 billion yen for the 12
months ending March 31, compared with a loss of 56.8 billion yen
a year earlier, Renesas said.  Renesas was formed in 2010 through the merger of money-
losing chipmakers Renesas Technology Corp., a venture between
Hitachi and Mitsubishi Electric, and NEC Electronics Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  