-- Oil Drops From 1-Week High in New York on Europe Debt Woe
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-09-24T06:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/oil-trades-near-one-week-high-amid-increased-middle-east-tension.html
Oil fell from the highest price in
almost a week as concern that European debt-crisis talks will
falter and threaten the economic recovery outweighed speculation
tension in the  Middle East  will disrupt crude supplies.  New York futures slid as much as 1.2 percent after
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  and President  Francois Hollande  clashed
over the weekend on a timetable for starting joint oversight of
the Europe’s banking sector. Iran will defend itself if attacked
by Israel, according to excerpts of a CNN interview with Iranian
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  scheduled for broadcast today.  “The market wants to see proof that Europe is climbing out
of the doldrums,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive
officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter in Sydney.
“The market has become a lot more pessimistic.”  Oil for November delivery declined as much as $1.11 to
$91.78 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $92 at 2:55 p.m. Singapore time. It rose 47
cents to $92.89 on Sept. 21, the highest close since Sept. 18.
Front-month prices fell 6.2 percent last week, the biggest
weekly decline since June, and are down 6.9 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement decreased $1.02 to
$110.40 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark grade’s  premium  to West Texas
Intermediate was at $18.40, down from $18.53 on Sept. 21.  A deadlock over Europe’s banking union may delay a key
building block in resolving the region’s debt crisis.
Integration should happen “the earlier, the better,” Hollande
told reporters in the German town of Asperg on Sept. 22. Merkel
said at the briefing that there’s no point doing something fast
if it then doesn’t work.  Central Banks, Iran  Oil in  New York  rose above $100 this month for the first
time since May amid speculation European steps to tame the
crisis and monetary easing by central banks would boost the
global economy. The  European Central Bank  said Sept. 6 it would
purchase bonds while the U.S. Federal Reserve said Sept. 14 it
would start buying mortgage securities.  Prices have also gained since U.S. and European Union
sanctions on Iran’s energy exports took full effect in July,
raising tension in the Middle East, which supplies a third of
the world’s crude. The sanctions aim to persuade Iran to curb
its atomic program, which the West alleges is being used to
build nuclear weapons.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak  have indicated the country may strike
against the nuclear facilities as negotiations stall over the
Islamic republic’s program.  Hedge Funds  Israel “will be destroyed” if it initiates action, Major
General Mohammad Ali Jafari, the commander in chief of Iran’s
Revolutionary Guard Corps, said Sept. 22, according to the
state-run Mehr news agency.  “The current drop in prices cannot be sustained unless
sanctions on Iran are lifted, quantitative easing plans are
shelved, and geopolitical tension in the Persian Gulf
subsides,” Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer
Securities, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Hedge funds  increased bullish oil bets for a fifth week in
the seven days ended Sept. 18 on speculation that the  Federal
Reserve ’s latest round of economic stimulus will boost hiring
and bolster demand. Money managers added to net-long positions,
or wagers on rising prices, by 5.6 percent, according to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders
report on Sept. 21. It was the highest level since May 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  