-- London Luxury-Home Prices Rise on Lower-Taxed Property
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-09-24T10:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/london-luxury-home-prices-rise-on-lower-taxed-property.html
Luxury-home prices in central
 London  rose at their fastest rate in three months in September,
powered by demand for properties that escape a new higher rate
of  sales tax ,  Knight Frank  LLP said.  The average value of a house or apartment in the U.K.
capital’s most expensive neighborhoods climbed 0.7 percent from
August, according to an index compiled by the London-based
broker. The annual increase was 10 percent compared with a 13-
month low of 9.9 percent in August.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  raised sales tax
for properties valued at more than 2 million pounds ($3.3
million) to 7 percent from 5 percent starting in April. The
number of luxury homes sold that weren’t subject to the higher
levy rose by 23 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier. That lifted prices in the bracket by about 12 percent,
Knight Frank said.  “London’s market performance continues to be aided by
overseas buyers, who account for more than 50 percent of buyers
in the 2 million-pound-plus market,”  Liam Bailey , Knight
Frank’s head of residential research, said in a statement.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said today that the
government can raise more money from the top 10 percent of
earners through further levies on the most expensive real-estate
purchases. Clegg’s Liberal Democrat party governs the U.K. in a
coalition with the  Conservative Party .  Tax Avoidance  “Most people in this country don’t understand why people
who have very high-value property don’t pay their fair share,”
he said in an interview on BBC Radio 5 today. “It’s easier to
stop tax avoidance on bricks and mortar than on money you can
move around the world.”  The value of homes in the Chelsea neighborhood gained 10.5
percent in the year through June, according to London-based
Savills Plc. That’s the most of any neighborhood, said Lucian Cook, the broker’s director of research, in an e-mailed
statement.  “Together with South Kensington, it benefitted from
interest from French buyers in a flight from euro-zone woes and
the threat of punitive taxes at home, giving a real boost to the
best addresses,” Cook said.  Russian, Indian, Italian, U.S. and French nationals were
the biggest buyers from overseas, Knight Frank said. Foreign
buyers accounted for 41 percent of prime London homes purchased
for 1 million pounds or more.  Values have risen 51 percent to a record since March 2009,
the low point for London’s prime residential market after the
financial crisis, according to the report.  Knight Frank compiles the index from its own appraisal
values of a sample of properties in the 13 most expensive
central London neighborhoods, such as Belgravia, Mayfair,
Kensington and Knightsbridge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 