-- How High Oil Prices Will Permanently Cap Economic Growth
-- B y   J e f f   R u b i n
-- 2012-09-23T22:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/how-high-oil-prices-will-permanently-cap-economic-growth.html
For most of the last century, cheap
oil powered global economic growth. But in the last decade, the
price of oil has quadrupled, and that shift will permanently
shackle the growth potential of the world’s economies.  The countries guzzling the most oil are taking the biggest
hits to potential economic growth. That’s sobering news for the
U.S., which consumes almost a fifth of the oil used in the world
every day. Not long ago, when oil was $20 a barrel, the U.S. was
the locomotive of global economic growth; the federal government
was running budget surpluses; the jobless rate at the beginning
of the last decade was at a 40-year low. Now, growth is stalled,
the  deficit  is more than $1 trillion and almost 13 million
Americans are unemployed.  And the U.S. isn’t the only country getting squeezed. From
Europe to  Japan , governments are struggling to restore growth.
But the economic remedies being used are doing more harm than
good, based as they are on a fundamental belief that economic
growth can return to its former strength. Central bankers and
policy makers have failed to fully recognize the suffocating
impact of $100-a-barrel oil.  Running huge budget deficits and keeping borrowing costs at
record lows are only compounding current problems. These
policies cannot be long-term substitutes for cheap oil because
an economy can’t grow if it can no longer afford to burn the
fuel on which it runs. The end of growth means governments will
need to radically change how economies are managed. Fiscal and
monetary policies need to be recalibrated to account for slower
potential growth rates.  Energy Source  Oil provides more than a third of the energy we use on the
planet every day, more than any other energy source. And you can
draw a straight line between oil consumption and gross-domestic-
product growth. The more oil we burn, the faster the global
economy grows. On average over the last four decades, a 1
percent bump in world oil consumption has led to a 2 percent
increase in global GDP. That means if GDP increased 4 percent a
year -- as it often did before the 2008 recession -- oil
consumption was increasing by 2 percent a year.  At $20 a barrel, increasing annual oil consumption by 2
percent seems reasonable enough. At $100 a barrel, it becomes
easier to see how a 2 percent increase in fuel consumption is
enough to make an economy collapse.  Fortunately, the reverse is also true. When our economies
stop growing, less oil is needed. For example, after the big
decline in 2008, global oil demand actually fell for the first
time since 1983. That’s why the best cure for high  oil prices  is
high oil prices. When prices rise to a level that causes an
economic crash, lower prices inevitably follow. Over the last
four decades, each time oil prices have spiked, the global
economy has entered a recession.  Consider the first oil shock, after the Yom Kippur War in
1973, when the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’
Arab members turned off the taps on roughly 8 percent of the
world’s oil supply by cutting shipments to the U.S. and other
Israeli allies. Crude prices spiked, and by 1974,  real GDP  in
the U.S. had shrunk by 2.5 percent.  The second OPEC oil shock happened during Iran’s revolution
and the subsequent war with Iraq. Disruptions to Iranian
production during the revolution sent crude prices higher,
pushing the North American economy into a  recession  for the
first half of 1980. A few months later, Iran’s war with Iraq
shut off 6 percent of world oil production, sending North
America into a double-dip recession that began in the spring of
1981.  Kuwait Invasion  When  Saddam Hussein  invaded  Kuwait  a decade later, oil
prices doubled to $40 a barrel, an unheard-of level at the time.
The first  Gulf War  disrupted almost 10 percent of the world’s
oil supply, sending major oil-consuming countries into a
recession in the fall of 1990.  Guess what oil prices were doing in 2008, when the world
fell into the deepest recession since the 1930s? From trading
around $30 a barrel in 2004, oil prices marched steadily higher
before hitting a peak of $147 a barrel in the summer of 2008.
Unlike past oil price shocks, this time there wasn’t even a
supply disruption to blame. The spigot was wide open. The
problem was, we could no longer afford to buy what was flowing
through it.  There are many ways an oil shock can hurt an economy. When
prices spike, most of us have little choice but to open our
wallets. Paying more for oil means we have less cash to spend on
food, shelter, furniture, clothes, travel and pretty much
anything else. Expensive oil, coupled with the average
American’s refusal to drive less, leaves a lot less money for
the rest of the economy.  Worse, when oil prices go up, so does inflation. And when
inflation goes up, central banks respond by raising  interest
rates  to keep prices in check. From 2004 to 2006, U.S. energy
inflation ran at 35 percent, according to the  Consumer Price
Index . In turn, overall inflation, as measured by the CPI,
accelerated from 1 percent to almost 6 percent. What happened
next was a fivefold bump in interest rates that devastated the
massively leveraged U.S. housing market. Higher rates popped the
speculative housing bubble, which brought down the global
economy.  Unfortunately, this pattern of oil-driven inflation is with
us again. And world  food prices  are being affected. According to
the food- price index  tracked by the United Nations Food and
Agriculture Organization, the cost of food rose almost 40
percent from 2009 to the beginning of 2012. And since 2002, the
FAO’s food-price index, which measures a basket of five
commodity groups (meat, dairy, cereals, oils and fats, and
sugar), is up about 150 percent.  Food Prices  A double whammy of rising oil and food prices means
inflation will be here sooner than anyone would like to think.  Rising inflation rates in China and India are a clear
signal that those economies are growing at an unsustainable
pace. China has made GDP growth of more than 8 percent a
priority but needs to recalibrate its thinking to recognize the
damping effects of high oil prices. Growth might not stall
entirely, but clocking double-digit gains is no longer feasible,
at least without triggering a calamitous increase in inflation.
If China and India, the new engines of global economic growth,
are forced to adopt anti-inflationary monetary policies, the
ripple effects for resource-based economies such as  Canada ,
 Australia  and  Brazil  will be felt in a hurry.  Triple-digit oil prices will end the lofty economic hopes
of India and China, which are looking to achieve the same sort
of sustained growth that  North America  and Europe enjoyed in the
postwar era. There is an unavoidable obstacle that puts such
ambitions out of reach: Today’s oil isn’t flowing from the same
places it did yesterday. More importantly, it’s not flowing at
the same cost.  Conventional oil production, the easy-to-get-at stuff from
the  Middle East  or west Texas, hasn’t increased in more than
five years. And that’s with record crude prices giving explorers
all the incentive in the world to drill. According to the
 International Energy Agency , conventional production has already
peaked and is set to decline steadily over the next few decades.  That doesn’t mean there won’t be any more oil. New reserves
are being found all the time in new places. What the decline in
conventional production does mean, though, is that future
economic growth will be fueled by expensive oil from
nonconventional sources such as the  tar sands , offshore wells in
the deep waters of the world’s oceans and even oil shales, which
come with environmental costs that range from carbon-dioxide
emissions to potential groundwater contamination.  And even if new supplies are found, what matters to the
economy is the cost of getting that supply flowing. It’s not
enough for the global  energy industry  simply to find new caches
of oil; the crude must be affordable. Triple-digit prices make
it profitable to tap ever-more-expensive sources of oil, but the
prices needed to pull this crude out of the ground will throw
our economies right back into a recession.  The energy industry’s task is not simply to find oil, but
also to find stuff we can afford to burn. And that’s where the
industry is failing. Each new barrel we pull out of the ground
is costing us more than the last. The resources may be there for
the taking, but our economies are already telling us we can’t
afford the cost.  Today, the world burns about  90 million barrels  of oil a
day. If our economies are no longer growing, maybe we won’t need
any more than that. We might even need less. Maybe the oil
trapped in the tar sands or under the Arctic Ocean can stay
where nature put it.  ( Jeff Rubin , a former chief economist and chief strategist
at CIBC World Markets Inc., is the author of “Why Your World Is
About to Get a Whole Lot Smaller.” This is the first of four
excerpts from his new book, “The Big Flatline: Oil and the No-
Growth Economy,” which will be published Oct. 16 by  Palgrave
Macmillan . The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 2 
and  Part 3 .)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  GM must remain Government
Motors  awhile longer, on making  air conditioners more green  and
on why  Europe must get its banking union back on track ; Betsey
Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on  Mitt Romney and taxes ; William
D. Cohan on  JPMorgan’s missing $6 billion ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the
 best way to handle Iran ; Luigi Zingales on why  Romney would have
done better than Obama .  Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a letter to
the editor.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeff Rubin at  jeffrubin@sympatico.ca   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  