-- How to Make Air Conditioners Less Guzzling and More Green
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-23T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/how-to-make-air-conditioners-less-guzzling-and-more-green.html
When the electricity  went out  in
northern  India  this past summer, alarm bells went off among
global energy experts. They’re still ringing as one hemisphere
eases out of the hot season and the other warms up.  The roots of the blackout -- increasingly prosperous
consumers putting more and more demand on an energy sector that
couldn’t keep up -- are common to so many economies, it looks
like an omen.  Air conditioning  is one of the biggest sources of new
demand on electricity grids in emerging economies. In the near
future, the energy required by the residents of just one Indian
city, Mumbai, to cool their indoor air to 70 degrees Fahrenheit
(21 degrees Celsius) could be a quarter of that used by all
Americans, a  recent study  estimated.  In China and India, annual sales of AC units are growing at
a 20 percent clip. As it happens, many of the world’s booming
cities -- Istanbul,  New Delhi ,  Rio de Janeiro ,  Shanghai  -- are
also hot much of the year.  Barring a change in the way our air conditioners work,
their increasing use not only will require huge expansions of
the  energy supply  but also will take a direct toll on the
environment. That’s because of provisions in the 1987  Montreal
Protocol . This international climate accord put the  ozone layer 
on a path to recovery and for a time reduced global warming.  An unintended consequence of its success, however, is now
heating things up. The agreement phased out the use of ozone-
depleting and climate-warming chlorofluorocarbons, which had
been used as coolants in air conditioners, in favor of less
harmful hydrochlorofluorocarbons. Wealthy countries have moved
on from using hydrochlorofluorocarbons to using
hydrofluorocarbons, which pose no danger to the ozone layer but
have 1,600 times the effect on global warming that carbon
dioxide has.  Already, atmospheric observations show that harmful HFC
emissions  are increasing  at a rate of 10 percent to 15 percent a
year, compared with 4 percent for carbon dioxide. It’s about to
get worse. Next year, under the Montreal Protocol,  developing
countries , too, must start phasing out HCFCs, which means they
will start using mostly climate-warming  HFCs  in their air
conditioners.  An amendment to the Montreal agreement -- similar  versions 
of which have been proposed by the Federated States of
Micronesia and  a group  composed of the U.S.,  Canada  and  Mexico 
-- would address both the energy-supply and environmental
challenges posed by burgeoning air conditioner use. The idea is
to bring HFCs within the Montreal accord, then phase out at
least the most harmful types in stages, first in wealthier
countries and then in  poorer ones .  Already, a quarter of new industrial air-conditioning
systems employ alternatives to HFCs such as ammonia,
hydrocarbons and carbon dioxide. These technologies are nascent
in home and vehicle air conditioning, and require additional
innovation. They present an opportunity for energy savings as
well as environmental benefits. Precedent suggests that when
designers are invited to retool a product, they implement saved-
up ideas that achieve improvements on multiple fronts. When
manufacturers re-engineered appliances to eliminate the use of
CFCs, they realized energy savings of 30 percent.  By tradition, the Montreal Protocol has been modified only
by consensus, which has been interpreted to mean an absence of
any strong opposition among the 197  member states . China and
India have used this custom to block formal negotiations on the
amendment to phase out HFCs, which will come up again at a
meeting in November. Both countries’ AC manufacturers worry that
moving rapidly to a new generation of appliances could reduce
their market share. The protocol’s multilateral fund, however,
pays developing countries the full cost of switching to a new
coolant, including the expense of technology transfers.  In any case, the Chinese and Indian governments have larger
interests at stake.  Climate change , a global matter, might not
be their immediate concern. Whether power grids can consistently
fuel the air conditioners that ever-more-prosperous citizens
demand, however, has direct national and political implications.
Phasing out HFCs would not only help keep the planet cool, it
could keep the power on, too.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  GM must remain Government
Motors  awhile longer and on why  Europe must get its banking
union back on track ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on  Mitt
Romney and taxes ; William D. Cohan on  JPMorgan’s missing $6
billion ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the  best way to handle Iran ;  Jeff
Rubin  on  the end of growth ;  Luigi Zingales  on why  Romney would
have done better than Obama .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 