-- Phelps May Face Greatest Challenge After Olympics Leave Town
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-09-23T22:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/phelps-may-face-greatest-challenge-after-olympics-leave-town.html
Olympic athletes who spend years
toiling in the quest for gold medals can encounter a greater
 challenge when they retire from competition.  About 10,500 athletes took part in this year’s  London 
Games. More than 70 percent of competitors typically don’t
return at the next edition, according to the  International
Olympic Committee . Many face a twofold test: finding a
replacement for that Olympic buzz and forging a new career as
the global economy struggles.  Jamie Baulch, a 1,600-meter relay silver medalist for
Britain at the 1996 Olympics, knows what it’s like. He said he
was “very isolated, very alone” when he left the track in 2005
after 15 years.  “When I retired, it was like, ‘See you later, goodbye,”’
the 39-year-old former runner said in an interview. “There
wasn’t a lot of help. Some athletes really struggle, especially
if you haven’t made enough money in the sport.”  Baulch said he left the sport because he didn’t enjoy it
anymore and that it took “two to three years to suddenly go
from retirement to being established in other things. It’s very
difficult.”  He worked as a children’s television show presenter and now
runs his own sports-management company.  “It’s going to be a tough transition for some,” Sarah
Winckless, a 2004 bronze-medal rower and chairwoman of the
 British Olympic Association  athletes’ commission, said in an
interview. “There’s the emotional upheaval of changing life in
such a big way. Some people can find that extraordinarily
difficult.”  Career Guidance  Even superstars also have to readjust.  Michael Phelps  ended his swimming career after the London
Games as the most successful Olympian with 22 medals, including
18 golds. He said his next task will be to find a new
competitive outlet.  “The excitement of standing behind the blocks, looking
down and getting ready for a race, that’s something I’ll
definitely miss,” Phelps told Bloomberg Television.  The 27-year-old American, who earns up to $7 million a year
from endorsements according to Forbes magazine, is working on
improving his golf swing on a Golf Channel reality show with one
of Tiger Woods’s former coaches,  Hank Haney . After his last race
in London, Phelps said he may challenge his friend and U.S.
Masters champion  Bubba Watson  to a swim race and a round of
golf.  It’s “hugely important” for athletes to get good career
guidance, Bram Ronnes, a former Olympic beach volleyball player
from the Netherlands, said in an interview.  Ronnes quit a year after competing at the 2008 Olympics.
He’s program manager of “Gold on the Work Floor,” a joint
project of the Dutch National Olympic Committee, the
Netherlands-based Sport & Business foundation and Randstad
Holding NV, the world’s second-largest staff provider. Since
2009, the program has placed close to 150 athletes in jobs.  Chasing Dream  There’s been “a huge influx” of athletes seeking career
advice and job placement since the London Games, he said.  Winckless, 38, estimated as many as 400 former professional
British athletes may be retiring after London 2012, some of whom
failed to make the cut shortly before the games, which closed on
Aug. 12 with Britain’s biggest medal haul since 1908.  “You spend your youth pursuing a dream, how do you replace
that?” said Winckless, a three-time Olympian with a natural-
sciences degree from  Cambridge University  who quit rowing three
years ago.  The IOC offers assistance with career counseling and job
placement in 30 countries in cooperation with Adecco SA, the
world’s largest provider of temporary workers. Since its start
seven years ago, the Athlete Career Program has helped some
10,000 competitors.  Experience Helps  More than 300 U.S. athletes have been placed at companies
ranging from Home Depot Inc. to  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , online stock
trader TD Ameritrade Holding Corp., and  General Electric Co. (GE)  in
full-time and part-time jobs during or after their sports
careers, according to the U.S. Olympic Committee.  Accounting firm Ernst & Young in the Netherlands calls
itself a “top athlete friendly employer,” on its website.  “We find it important that employees maximize their
potential, and former athletes are great ambassadors to help
achieve that.” The firm last year hired former Olympic sailor
Petronella de Jong and rower Bastiaan Vervoort.  James Williams  was a silver medalist for the U.S. in
Beijing in the men’s team saber event and competed at London. He
interned at the investor-relations department of TD Ameritrade
with help from the USOC.  “The weakest part of an Olympic athlete’s resume is
experience,” said Williams, a Columbia University graduate. The
27-year-old said he probably won’t be competing at the 2016
Olympics in  Rio de Janeiro  and is looking for a job in finance.
“I believe my internship increases my desirability as an
applicant.”  Hiring a former top-level athlete can add value for
employers, Winckless said. What they may lack in practical
knowledge, they more than make up for in attitude.  “Dedication and drive towards a goal,” she said. “That’s
what athletes can bring in,”  Looking Ahead  Most athletes know precisely where their strengths and
weaknesses lie on the field. It can be different in the job
hunt.  “What are your qualities?” Ronnes, 33, said. “Most
athletes find that really hard to figure out. They often say ‘I
can’t really do much outside of my sport.’ Then it turns out the
athlete has always done his own public relations, booked his own
travel and has basically run his own business. Most athletes
have many more qualities than they think.”  Looking ahead instead of dwelling on past glories is
important, Ronnes and Winckless said.  “It really is the best time of your life, and it will
always remain the best time of your life,” Ronnes said. “You
need to give that closure. Being a professional athlete is a
unique experience.”  Winckless combines her work on the BOA’s athletes’
commission with leadership coaching for companies such as Visa
Inc. and broadcasting work. She climbed  Mount Kilimanjaro  and is
training for a cycling race to Paris.  “If I have one tip for retiring athletes, it would be to
stay active,” she said. “It really helps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  