-- Republicans Had ‘Good Week’ Even With Romney Gaffe, Priebus Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-09-23T15:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/republicans-had-good-week-even-with-romney-gaffe-priebus-says.html
Republicans had a “good week”
even with a video leak of presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
stating that 47 percent of Americans are government-dependent
“victims,” the party’s chairman said.  “I think that we had a good week last week” because “we
were able to frame up the debate” about the future direction of
the country, Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said today on ABC’s “This Week” broadcast. Earlier he
said it was “not the best week in the campaign.”  The Romney campaign is dealing with fallout from the
comments, videotaped in secret at a campaign fundraiser earlier
this year, that were reported last week. Democrats have pounced
on the remarks, framing Romney as a wealthy Republican who is
out-of-touch with much of the country.  Romney’s comment “was a political analysis at a
fundraiser, but it’s not a governing philosophy,” Senator  Kelly Ayotte , a New Hampshire Republican, said today on NBC’s “Meet
the Press” program. “I know that he cares about every single
American in this country.” In the same broadcast, Massachusetts
Governor  Deval Patrick , a Democrat, described Romney’s comments
as “turning his back on half the country.”  Close Race  Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina 
predicted that if “undecided voters break against the incumbent
as they generally do, this is a very close race and, quite
frankly, I like our position.”  Romney on Sept. 21 released his 2011  tax return , which
showed that he paid more taxes than necessary in order to keep
his  tax rate  higher than 13 percent.  “It’s fair to say that a lot of those 47 percent that he
was slandering earlier in the week probably pay more -- a higher
percentage of their income in taxes overall than he does,”
 David Axelrod , a campaign strategist for President  Barack Obama ,
said on the ABC broadcast today.  “The bigger issue isn’t that he isn’t being straight
about his own taxes,” Axelrod said. “The bigger issue is that
he isn’t being straight about what he’s going to do to everyone
else’s taxes.”  Obama and Romney are seeking to court voters in key
battleground states with about six weeks left before the Nov. 6
election. Obama leads Romney 51 percent to 46 percent in a  poll 
of Ohio. The poll of 861 people, commissioned by the Columbus
Dispatch and conducted Sept. 13-18, splits on who is seen as the
better candidate to handle the economy going forward. Obama is
seen as the best choice by 49 percent, and Romney by 44 percent.
The margin of error is plus or minus 3.3 percentage points.  ‘More Likely’  “The poll indicates that Democrats are slightly more
likely to vote than Republicans are this year, and Obama
supporters are more enthusiastic about the election than Romney
backers are,” the Dispatch wrote in its analysis. “However,
Romney is winning independents by a large margin.”  Momentum has shifted in Obama’s direction, Senate Majority
Whip  Dick Durbin , a Democrat from Illinois, said on CNN’s
“ State of the Union ” program.  “Some of the problems and mistakes of the Romney campaign
have given the president more traction in these battleground
states with working families,” Durbin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  