-- Sorry, GM, It’s ’Government Motors’ Awhile Longer
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-23T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/sorry-gm-it-s-government-motors-awhile-longer-view.html
Like a restless suitor eager to
move on,  General Motors Co. (GM)  wants to end its four-year
relationship with the U.S. government.  Washington , to its
credit, has no intention of playing the chump.  GM, bailed out with $50 billion from the  Troubled Asset
Relief Program , wants the  U.S. Treasury  to sell its remaining
26.5 percent stake quickly, even if that means taking a huge
loss. The unnecessary oversight and intervention that comes with
its “Government Motors” status, GM  argues,  is holding the
company back.  Bailouts aren’t free -- for either side -- a point worth
highlighting as  critics  continue to beat up on the Treasury for
not extracting more pain from the banks and companies it
rescued. GM’s fitful relationship with its government overseers
should help deter the poor decision-making that landed companies
at Washington’s doorstep.  More important, the facts don’t support GM’s complaint.
Let’s review: At the height of the financial crisis, President
 George W. Bush , a Republican, and  Barack Obama , his Democratic
successor, threw GM a financial lifeline despite doubts that it
deserved the money or could repay it.  Whirlwind Bankruptcy  The Obama administration then  managed  a whirlwind 40-day
bankruptcy proceeding, from which the company emerged with its
crushing debt lifted and health-care obligations slashed. GM
went public in 2010 at $33 a share and, in 2011, became the
world’s No. 1 automaker. It has reported  profits  for 10 straight
quarters.  The company is now strong enough that, as  Bloomberg News 
reported, it is preparing to bid for  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ’s auto-
lending arms in  Europe  and  Latin America . Its biggest challenges
have little to do with the government’s financial stake. Rather,
it is suffering, as most U.S. manufacturers are, from losses in
Europe and a slowdown in  China .  For a reality check,  look  at  Ford Motor Co. (F) , GM’s closest
peer and the only one of the Big Three automakers not to get a
government bailout. GM’s  price-to-earnings  ratio, or the price
the market puts on a dollar of its earnings, is $8.35. Ford’s is
 barely  higher, at $8.47.  Although GM’s stock is doing as well as Ford’s, it’s not
doing well enough; this is the primary reason Treasury is
hanging on to the shares. Treasury already lost more than $4
billion in the initial offering, when it sold common shares for
$33, below the $43.53 it needed to break even.  So far, Treasury has recouped about $24 billion of its $50
billion GM bailout. (The special inspector general for TARP has
said Treasury would need to sell its remaining 500 million
shares for about $53 apiece to recover all of its GM investment,
including what it lost in the IPO.)  Treasury doesn’t expect to make money on the auto bailouts
-- ever. As of May, it  assumed  it would lose $25 billion on the
entire Detroit rescue, including funds provided to Chrysler and
 Ally Financial . The ultimate loss will depend on how the stocks
perform.  Treasury is right to be patient. This isn’t bureaucratic
resistance -- it’s smart  investment management . Dumping the
shares would only flood the market with GM stock, depressing the
price even more. Taxpayers, moreover, deserve a better return.
They are still suffering in the backwash of the financial
crisis, with more than 12 million Americans  out of work  and real
wages that have been stagnant for years.  Promise Kept  As for managerial interference, the U.S. has exercised the
 authority  Congress gave it to set  pay  for top-salaried GM
executives. That condition of TARP has been applied to all
companies that received “extraordinary assistance.” During the
restructuring, the U.S. also played a big role in the company’s
operations. It chose the chief executive officers, including
current CEO Dan Akerson and his predecessor,  Ed Whitacre , who is
now among those urging the U.S. to sell its shares pronto.  But the administration has long made it  clear  it would be a
hands-off manager once the Treasury was simply a common
shareholder -- a promise it has kept. It hasn’t told the company
what cars to make, where to build them or which companies to
acquire.  Still, the U.S. Treasury isn’t a hedge fund and should look
for opportunities to sell the shares. The stock may never hit
$53, so Treasury need not wait for that price. It also doesn’t
have to give money away, especially now that the market is
rising and GM is in a strong position.  GM should focus on expanding its global market share by
improving productivity, adopting the latest technologies and
building world-class cars that consumers want -- in other words,
do all it can do on its own to hasten an amicable end to this
relationship.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on making  air conditioners more
green  and on why  Europe must get its banking union back on
track ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on  Mitt Romney and
taxes ; William D. Cohan on  JPMorgan’s missing $6 billion ;  Albert
R. Hunt  on the  best way to handle Iran ;  Jeff Rubin  on  the end of
growth ; Luigi Zingales on why  Romney would have done better than
Obama .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 