-- Spending Probably Stagnated: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-09-24T05:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/spending-probably-stagnated-as-prices-rose-u-s-economy-preview.html
(Corrects year in 11th paragraph of story originally
published yesterday.)  Consumer spending  in the U.S.
probably stagnated in August after adjusting for inflation,
showing the expansion is struggling to gain momentum, economists
said before a report this week.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose 0.5 percent last month after a 0.4 percent
increase in July, according to the median estimate of 63
economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Sept. 28 figures from
the Commerce Department. The report may show the gain reflected
a 0.5 percent jump in prices, the biggest since June 2009.  A slackening job market and rising gasoline prices are
squeezing household finances just as concern mounts that
lawmakers may not be able to avoid the fiscal cliff of tax
increases and spending cuts slated to take effect next year.
Other reports this week may show business investment is also
cooling, while housing is on the mend after a six-year slump.  “The  U.S. economy  is clearly in a soft patch right now
that could deteriorate into a stall,” said Scott Anderson,
chief economist at Bank of the West in  San Francisco . “Consumer
spending is really driven by jobs and wealth effects and the
consumer’s ability to borrow. All of those things are still
suggesting moderate growth.”  Consumer caution is rippling through retailers, restaurants
and their supply chains, with railroads and cargo companies
including  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) ,  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and United Parcel
Service Inc. reporting slowing global demand.  The Commerce Department’s spending report will also show
 incomes  grew 0.2 percent last month after rising 0.3 percent in
July, according to the survey median.  August Payrolls  Employers added 96,000 workers to payrolls last month, less
than the 130,000 projected, and the  unemployment rate  fell to
8.1 percent after 368,000 people left the workforce. The jobless
rate has exceeded 8 percent for 43 months, the longest stretch
since monthly records began in 1948.  Retail sales rose 0.9 percent in August, the most in six
months, the Commerce Department reported earlier this month.
Receipts were driven by demand for automobiles and higher
 gasoline  prices that left consumers with less to spend on other
goods.  “We’re seeing continued resilience in auto sales and
building materials but beyond that spending is pretty weak,”
Anderson said.  The cost of fuel is continuing to be a drag on buying power
this month. The  pump price  for a gallon of regular unleaded
gasoline averaged $3.84 through Sept. 20 compared with $3.70 in
August and $3.42 the prior month, according to data from AAA,
the largest U.S. auto group.  Manufacturing Cools  Manufacturing, long a pillar of the recovery from the
recession, also is showing signs of stress amid the slowing
global economy and the march toward the U.S. fiscal cliff --$600
billion in tax increases and  government spending  cuts set to
take effect next year should Congress not act by the end 2012.  Siemens AG (SIE)  said last week it will eliminate 615 jobs in the
U.S. in its wind-energy business because of a drop in demand.  “Following the rapid ramp-up of the wind power industry
over the past five years, the industry is facing a significant
drop in new orders, and this has an unfortunate consequence on
employment in this segment,” Munich-based Siemens said in a
statement.  Durable goods  orders , a measure of demand for capital
equipment and machinery like turbines, will drop 5 percent in
August after rising 4.1 percent the prior month, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed before a Sept. 27
report from the Commerce Department.  Durable Goods  While the drop was probably caused by a slump in volatile
bookings for aircraft, economists project that excluding the
transportation category, orders rose 0.3 percent, recovering
only half of July’s 0.6 percent drop.  “If everyone in the economy holds their breath, we could
be in recession or at least have a downshift,” said  Carl Riccadonna , senior U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities
Inc. in  New York . “Already, lasting damage is being done” by
the threat of the fiscal cliff, he said.  In a bid to stimulate spending and boost job creation,
Federal Reserve policy makers this month promised to keep
 interest rates  low and embarked on a plan to purchase $40
billion in mortgage debt every month until the labor market
improves.  Mortgage Rates  The move has helped drive down the cost of buying a home.
The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage matched a record
low 3.49 percent in the week ended Sept. 20, according to McLean,
Virginia-based  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)   Lower borrowing costs are boosting property sales.
Purchases of  new houses  rose to a two-year high in August,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Sales
climbed to a 380,000 annual pace from a 372,000 rate in July,
the Commerce Department may report on Sept. 26. New homes made
up 6.7 percent of the residential market in 2011, down from a
high of 15 percent during the boom of the past decade.  On Sept. 24, an index from S&P/Case-Shiller may show  home
prices  in 20 U.S. cities rose 1.1 percent in July from the same
time last time, the most since August 2010.  The Standard & Poor’s  Homebuilding Index (S15HOME)  has climbed 87
percent so far this year, compared with a 12 percent increase
for the S&P Machinery Index and a 16 percent gain for the
broader 500 gauge.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  