-- Syria Shells Aleppo, Daraa as Rebels Vow to Take Capital
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-09-23T21:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/syria-shells-aleppo-daraa-as-rebels-vow-to-take-capital.html
Troops loyal to President Bashar al-Assad shelled the provinces of Aleppo and Daraa after the
rebel Free Syrian Army said it moved its command center into the
country as part of a strategy to “liberate” Damascus.  Shelling yesterday in Aleppo in the north and Daraa in the
south, as well as the capital and its suburbs left more than 30
people dead, according to the UK-based Syrian Observatory for
 Human Rights .  United Nations envoy Lakhdar Brahimi, who was appointed to
revive UN peace efforts in  Syria , said last week that the crisis
may spread regionally if the bloodshed isn’t contained. More
than 26,000 people have died since the conflict between Assad’s
opponents and the military began in March 2011, the observatory
said.  Valerie Amos , the UN’s top humanitarian affairs official,
told Al-Jazeera that 2.5 million people are being affected by
the Syrian conflict, and that 100,000 people fled Syria in
August alone.  “This is a crisis that demands a political solution,” Amos
said in an interview broadcast by the Qatar-based network
yesterday.  The relocation of the FSA’s command from  Turkey  to Syria
shows the group is “becoming more robust, more organized and is
serious about this struggle,” Anthony Skinner, Middle East
director for Maplecroft, a global risk adviser based in the
English city of Bath, said by telephone yesterday. The move is
“bold” and while it is significant, it isn’t enough to unite
the opposition in ousting Assad, he said.  Headquarters Moved  FSA Colonel Riad al-Asaad announced the movement of the
command center Sept. 22 to one of the “liberated areas” of
Syria. Speaking in a video  posted  on the Internet, he said the
group “plans to liberate Damascus soon.” He didn’t give the
location or details of the facility.  In Hama, where Syrian Red Crescent teams recovered more
than 40 bodies after the  Air Force  bombed the neighborhood of
Mashaa al-Arbaeen, government forces arrested many people after
breaking into homes, the observatory said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Syrian forces loyal to Assad killed 70 people across the
country yesterday, including 17 in Damascus and its suburbs, the
opposition Local Coordination Committees said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  