-- Lufkin Deal Seen Likely With Low Valuation: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-09-24T20:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/lufkin-deal-seen-likely-with-low-valuation-real-m-a.html
Lufkin Industries Inc. (LUFK) , the maker
of oil-well pumps that fell to its lowest valuation in almost
three years, is shaping up to be a deal target as new drilling
techniques fuel a boom in shale-oil production.  The Lufkin, Texas-based company, which lost almost a third
of its market value since February after missing  profit
estimates  and reducing forecasts, was valued last month at 10.8
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was
the cheapest since December 2009, the data show.  With new technology opening access to oil trapped in shale
rock and spurring demand for Lufkin’s pumps, the $1.97 billion
company is still projected to post record earnings this year and
next. Lufkin could attract bids from oil-services firms such as
 Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , Halliburton Co. and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) ,
according to Citigroup Inc. and Gabelli & Co. A takeover could
be valued at about $75 a share, a 28 percent premium, Global
Hunter Securities LLC said.  “There is no shortage of suitors,” Eric Mintz, a  St.
Petersburg , Florida-based  fund manager  who helps oversee more
than $8 billion at Eagle Asset Management Inc., said in a
telephone interview. Lufkin’s appeal is “their leadership
position in an attractive and growing segment of the market.
There’s clearly a secular growth trend with the tailwinds of
oil-shale development.”  Mintz said Eagle Asset holds about 2.3 million Lufkin
shares, making it the company’s biggest  stockholder , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Oilfield Pumps  Christopher Boone, Lufkin’s chief financial officer,
declined in an e-mail to comment on whether the company had been
approached by potential buyers or would consider a sale.  Lufkin was  founded  in 1902 as a maker of railroad and
sawmill equipment before expanding into oilfield pumps and
power-transmission equipment. Oil-related products such as its
artificial-lift pumpjacks, which are used to draw the fuel out
of the ground when an older well loses its natural pressure,
accounted for 79 percent of  revenue  in 2011.  On July 30, Lufkin shares had their biggest one-day drop
since the company went public in 1990, tumbling 21 percent after
the pump maker reported earnings that missed forecasts for a
second straight quarter. Lufkin, which cited expansion costs and
expenses related to a labor dispute in  Argentina , also cut its
profit forecast for the full year.  “They stumbled pretty badly for the second time in a row
and I think investors just threw up their hands,” said Jon Loth, a Minneapolis-based  money manager  for Nuveen Asset
Management’s Small Cap Growth Opportunities Fund, which owns
Lufkin shares.  Declining Valuation  Last month, Lufkin’s  enterprise value  fell to as low as
10.8 times its Ebitda in the last 12 months, the cheapest
multiple in almost three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  stock  closed last week at $58.59, still 31 percent
below its February high of $85.39. It traded at 13.4 times
Ebitda, compared with its average multiple of 18 times during
the past three years, the data show.  Today, Lufkin shares fell 1.7 percent to $57.62.  Even after the company trimmed its  forecast , analysts
 project  Lufkin will more than double profit in 2013 from last
year’s level on sales gains of 53 percent, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Lufkin stands to benefit as advances in the technology for
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, free gas and oil trapped in
dense shale-rock formations, opening up new areas in  North
America  for exploration and drilling, said  Brian Uhlmer , head of
energy research at Global Hunter Securities in Houston.  ‘Best Play’  The company’s specialty in pumpjacks, also known as rod-
lift units, makes it an attractive takeover candidate for oil-
services companies looking to profit from the boom, he said.  Oil-related activity in the most active U.S. shale plays --
the Eagle Ford region and Permian Basin in  Texas  and the Bakken
formation in  North Dakota  -- has grown more than fivefold since
mid-2009 to a total of 784 rigs as of June 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. oil production increased 7.8 percent
from 2007 to 2010 and is expected to climb another 22 percent to
6.7 million barrels per day by 2020, according to data from the
 U.S. Energy Information Administration .  “The rod-lift market should expand dramatically,” Uhlmer
said in a phone interview. Lufkin is “the best play on that
growing market. It would be very, very attractive to a potential
candidate who could buy them and own the technology.”  Growth Vehicle  Robin Shoemaker, a New York-based analyst at Citigroup,
said Schlumberger, the world’s largest oilfield-services
provider, or Baker Hughes, the third-biggest, could seek to
acquire Lufkin to expand their existing artificial-lift
businesses.  “The bigger players have been trying to grow, through
acquisitions and organically,” Shoemaker said in a phone
interview. With a market value of less than $2 billion, Lufkin
“is an acquisition that would be easily handled by a large
company.”  Stephen Harris, a spokesman for Schlumberger, which is
based in Houston and Paris, declined to comment when asked
whether the company may bid for Lufkin. Pamela Easton, a
spokeswoman for Houston-based Baker Hughes said in an e-mail
that the company wouldn’t comment on speculation.  While Schlumberger and Baker Hughes may be interested in
Lufkin,  Halliburton (HAL)  “makes the most sense” because it doesn’t
currently have a foothold in artificial-lift pumps, said Andrea Sharkey, an analyst for Rye, New York-based Gabelli, a unit of
Gamco Investors Inc., which oversees about $36 billion and owns
Lufkin shares. She said Lufkin could fetch $65 to $70 a share in
a takeover, at least an 11 percent premium.  International Expansion  Beverly Stafford, a spokeswoman for Houston-based
Halliburton, didn’t respond to a phone message and an e-mail
seeking comment.  Lufkin also has been expanding its international
operations, with production at its Romanian factory scheduled to
be begin in the fourth quarter.  Non-U.S. sales  made up 37
percent of Lufkin’s total revenue in 2011 and that may lure an
international buyer such as Norwegian oil-services company Aker
Solutions ASA, according to Neal Dingmann, a Houston-based
analyst with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc.  Ivar Simensen, a spokesman for Lysaker, Norway-based Aker
Solutions, said in an e-mail that the company doesn’t comment on
speculation when asked about a possible bid for Lufkin.  Even after its  decline  this year, Lufkin’s Ebitda multiple
is more than 14 percent higher than the average among oil and
gas services companies with a market value of more than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Management Stance  While management may not be willing to sell for less than
“well over” $100 a share, acquirers still may be drawn to
Lufkin’s equipment, said Tim Beranek, a Denver-based money
manager who specializes in energy companies at Cambiar Investors
LLC, which oversees $6.6 billion, including Lufkin shares.  With crude  oil prices  on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
projected by analysts to remain above $90 a barrel into 2014,
oil producers will continue to use fracking and other techniques
to find and drill for more of the fuel, underpinning demand for
Lufkin’s pumps, Beranek said.  For an oilfield-services company looking to tap into that
demand, Lufkin is “the ideal niche addition,” SunTrust’s
Dingmann said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  