-- Upgrades Boost U.S. Naval Capabilities Against Iranian Threat
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-09-23T12:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/upgrades-boost-u-s-naval-capabilities-against-iranian-threat.html
The 41-year-old refurbished
transport vessel overseeing an international Middle East mine-
hunting exercise can defend itself from Iranian speedboats with
two new machine guns cued by long-range cameras bought under a
special Pentagon program.  The  USS Ponce  is also carrying an underwater drone being
tested that’s capable of taking sonar and video images of the
Persian Gulf’s bottom in search of mines as deep as 300 meters
(984 feet).  The  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  25mm guided ‘ ‘Mark 38 Mod 2 ,” and
Kingfish unmanned underwater vehicle are among the programs the
Pentagon this year accelerated under a “Fast Lane” initiative
to counter Iranian naval weapons. One of the most serious
threats, the Navy says, are Iranian speedboats that can employ
“swarming” tactics.  The U.S. is boosting its naval presence in the area, which
includes the  Strait of Hormuz , through which a fifth of the
world’s traded oil flows. Iranian officials have threatened to
close the waterway in response to threats to force the Islamic
Republic to abandon its suspected nuclear weapons program.  More than 30 nations are participating in the 12-day
exercise that’s taking place in three locations from the mid-
Persian Gulf, the  Gulf of Oman  to Djibouti and the  Gulf of Aden .  Ships from the U.S., U.K.,  Japan  and  Iraq  are
participating. Countries including Yemen, Jordan,  New Zealand ,
 Estonia ,  Italy ,  Singapore  and  Australia  are also taking part or
acting as observers. The exercise is scheduled to end on
September 27.  ‘Toplight’ Camera  On the USS Ponce, the 25mm gun’s rotating “Toplight”
camera can spot small boats “seven or eight miles out” and
“even in haze,” said Gunners Mate Second Class Adam Waddell.
He can fire the gun, effective to as much as 2,700 yards, by
pressing a button on his joystick.  “It’s a very efficient, very accurate weapon,” Waddell
said. He spoke as the Ponce was located about 80 miles from the
Iranian coast and 280 miles north of the Strait of Hormuz.  The new weapons and sensors are in addition to other steps
the U.S. has taken this year to improve naval capabilities in
the Gulf.  This includes doubling to eight the number of Avenger-class
mine hunting vessels. One of the newly deployed Avenger vessels,
the USS Warrior, is taking part in the exercise.  The Navy has also installed on the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower
aircraft carrier that’s now in the Gulf a long-range, day-night
camera system called the “Stalker.”  Boeing ScanEagle  The Ponce is the overall command vessel and is equipped
with a  Boeing Co. (BA)  ScanEagle drone, the same craft used by Navy
SEALs in  Afghanistan  to track down Taliban fighters.  The drone provides commanders with live video feeds of
allied vessels and can provide an early warning if Iranian
vessels approach.  “I can get video 75 miles away from ScanEagle,” Ponce
Captain Jon Rodgers told reporters in his office, while zooming
in on a Zodiac carrying French divers.  “The hardest part about defending a ship is understanding
the intent of a potential adversary,” Rodgers said. A boat can
approach and personnel need to quickly assess “does it have a
capability to hurt you? Does it have an opportunity to hurt you?
Do they have the intent?”  The ‘TopLight’ camera on the gun system allows Ponce
personnel to zoom in and determine “what are they pointing at?
They’re taking pictures of the ship. They’re not shooting at the
ship,” he said. “That’s a critical factor.”  The gun and ScanEagle cameras also help the U.S. in its
“battle of the narrative” with  Iran , Rodgers said.  “If you are ever in an engagement you want to be able to
film that to tell the world the” truth, Rodgers said.  Kingfish Swims  The Ponce also is home to two 11.5-foot long, 600-pound
Kingfish prototype unmanned underwater vehicles made by ITT
Exelis.  The vehicle is capable of descending to a depth of 984 feet
on a preprogramed mission of as many as eight hours.  “You can use the equipment to find just about anything,”
said Juliana Jackson, a Navy employee monitoring its use.  The bottom of the  Persian Gulf  can be crowded, Lieutenant
Commander Scott Nietzel of the USS Warrior said in an interview.  “We’ve seen a Volkswagen Beetle on the bottom, tires,
microwaves -- you name it,” he said. “A lot of things get
thrown overboard. Sorting out the garbage from the mines from
the natural environment is, of course the challenge.  That’s why
we’ve brought so much technology to bear.”  -Editors: Louis Meixler, Digby Lidstone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio aboard the USS Ponce at   acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  