-- Vettel Wins Singapore Grand Prix to Revive F-1 Title Challenge
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-09-23T18:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/vettel-wins-singapore-grand-prix-to-revive-f-1-title-challenge.html
Sebastian Vettel of Red Bull won
yesterday’s Singapore Grand Prix to go second in the Formula One
drivers’ standings and revive his challenge for a third straight
title.  Jenson Button  of McLaren came second, almost 9 seconds
behind, and Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  was third in the floodlit
night race on the Marina Bay street circuit. Alonso’s lead in
the drivers’ event is reduced to 29 points from 37.  McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton , second in the standings before
the race, was leading when he had to pull out on lap 23 after a
gearbox failure. It was Vettel’s second straight victory in the
race, only his second this season and the 23rd of his career.  “This has been one of toughest races of the year, to be
honest,” Vettel, 25, told reporters. “There are so many bumps,
there’s no room for mistakes and it just seems to go on forever.
I’m incredibly happy.”  Vettel, whose last win was in Bahrain in April, added that
“it’s a tough championship but we are still in it. We’re
looking forward to the next few races and the goal is to beat
Fernando.”  Hamilton had taken pole position, seeking his third win in
four races and a fourth straight victory for McLaren.  He had a good start, while Pastor Maldonado of Williams
lost ground from second place on the grid. Hamilton led early on
from Vettel, Button, Maldonado and Alonso. After a round of
early pit stops the pattern was the same when Hamilton withdrew,
banging his steering wheel in frustration as the car drew to a
halt.  Schumacher Crash  Germany ’s Vettel, who’d started third on the grid, took
over the lead. He was followed by Button, and they were among
those pitting when the safety car came out after Narain
Karthikeyan’s HRT crashed on lap 33.  Hardly had racing resumed when seven-time series champion
 Michael Schumacher  of Mercedes crashed into the back of Toro
Rosso’s Jean-Eric Vergne. That sent both cars out of the race
and brought the safety car on again.  Vettel maintained his grip on the race as the safety car
exited, followed by Button, Alonso, Force  India ’s Paul Di Resta
and  Nico Rosberg  of Mercedes.  By lap 52 Vettel had extended his lead over Button to 3
seconds and continued to stretch his advantage. The race, due to
last 61 laps, only completed 59 by the two-hour time limit.  Di Resta finished fourth, followed by Rosberg, Lotus duo
 Kimi Raikkonen  and  Romain Grosjean  and Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa .
Then came Toro Rosso’s Daniel Ricciardo. Red Bull’s  Mark Webber 
finished 10th but dropped to 11th because of a 20-second
penalty, Sergio Perez of Sauber taking the last point. Maldonado
pulled out with a hydraulic problem.  ‘Positive’  Stewards investigated a near-miss incident between Vettel
and Button during the first safety-car phase but didn't impose
any penalty on the German over his maneuver.  “There’s a lot of races left, first of all we have to make
sure we finish,” Vettel said. “I think the pace was there.
Even if we are not quick enough to win, then it’s good enough to
collect a lot of points.”  Alonso leads the drivers’ standings on 194 points, ahead of
Vettel (165), who moves up from fourth. Then comes Raikkonen
(149), Hamilton (142), Webber (132) and Button (119).  “It’s a fantastic result in terms of points,” Alonso
said. “It’s a positive weekend. Of the four, five
contenders, we lost points to one and with the others we
increased our advantage.”  Hamilton said he was “gutted” when his car stopped.  “I was cruising, I was managing the gap and could have
pushed more, I had the pace. Today would have been an easy
win,” he said.  Red Bull  leads the constructors’ event on 297, with McLaren
on 261 and Ferrari on 245.  Also at the weekend, the Singapore government announced it
extended its contract to host a Formula One race for five more
years until 2017, providing a continued boost to the economy
from visitor arrivals and tourism receipts.  The next event, the 15th in a 20-race season, is the
Japanese Grand Prix at Suzuka on Oct. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  