-- We Would Be Better Off Had Romney Been President
-- B y   L u i g i   Z i n g a l e s
-- 2012-09-23T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/we-would-be-better-off-had-romney-been-president.html
The  U.S. economy  has improved under
President  Barack Obama . But by all the measures Democrats use,
Americans would be better off today if  Mitt Romney  had led the
country for the past four years.  The Democrats are substantially right when they answer
 Ronald Reagan ’s famous campaign question -- Are you better off
today than you were four years ago? -- in the affirmative. Gross
domestic product per person is higher, and so is the  stock
market . It’s not fair to blame Obama for the surge in
unemployment that occurred in the first six months of his
administration. Even  this statistic  has improved since August
2009.  The question, however, is the wrong one. No matter how
powerful and skillful a president may be, he is not omnipotent.
Obama is not responsible for the economic mess he found when he
took over as president, as  Franklin Delano Roosevelt  was not
responsible for  Pearl Harbor . A president should be judged for
his ability to play the cards he has been dealt, not for his
luck (or lack thereof).  Heading into November’s election, voters should be asking
which president would have done a better job with the cards
Obama was dealt. Although such hypothetical questions are hard
to answer, a quick look at the record suggests the winner would
be Romney.  Health Care  Consider the Affordable Care Act, Obama’s primary
legislative achievement. Even if you are a hard-core supporter
of health-care reform, you have to concede that the new law
didn’t have any positive impact in the past four years, and
might have had some negative ones. All the good changes
advertised by the Obama administration will take place only
after this year’s election, leaving us to suffer the cost of
uncertainty now.  Indeed, one wonders why Obama spent so much time and
political capital on a reform that he himself didn’t consider
urgent -- most of the law won’t take effect until 2014 -- at a
time when employment was plummeting, the banking sector was on
the verge of collapse and more than 10 million American
households owed more on their mortgages than their homes were
worth. Obama campaigned like a pragmatist in 2008, but when he
took power, he governed like an ideologue, sticking with his
priority at the expense of the economy.  Romney would almost certainly have acted differently.
Whatever you might think of his political priorities, he is the
ultimate pragmatist. He governed  Massachusetts  like Obama
promised to govern the country: trying to fix problems, not to
advance an ideology.  Even in dealing with unemployment, Obama advanced an
agenda. He used the crisis as an opportunity to expand
 government spending  in sectors dear to him, such as green
energy, construction and education. No doubt, the stimulus
program was necessary, but it should have focused on subsidies
to employment (a payroll-tax cut) and incentives for purchases
of durable goods (a temporary sales-tax rebate). Romney the
pragmatist would have been more likely to focus on the most
effective measures to reduce unemployment, rather than on
pushing a liberal agenda.  Didn’t Obama save the American automakers, while Romney
would have let them go bankrupt? This comparison is at best
disingenuous. Bankruptcy does not imply liquidation. American
Airlines Inc. and  United Airlines  went through bankruptcy, and
they are still flying. Even under Obama, Chrysler Group LLC and
General Motors Co. went into bankruptcy.  The main difference in Obama’s recipe was that the
government bailed out union health-care and pension plans.
Opinions may differ on whether this was fair, but it was done
the wrong way. The government bullied the bankruptcy judge and
creditors into giving preferential treatment to the unions’
financial claims, overstepping existing contracts. This behavior
undermined the rule of law that is a crucial element of
America’s attractiveness to investors.  Financial Regulation  What about financial regulation? In principle, it’s
reasonable to expect that Romney would have been more
sympathetic to Wall Street’s interests, a bias that could have
been an impediment to much-needed reform. In practice, it’s hard
to imagine he could have done worse than Obama and Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner , who enacted regulations that
increase the cost of doing business while failing to solve the
problems that caused the crisis. In fact, Romney probably would
have done better. He might not have introduced much effective
regulation at all, but he would have avoided the populist and
anti-business rhetoric Obama was forced to use to please his
electoral base.  Voters might find plenty of reasons to vote for Obama on
ideological grounds. With his gaffes, Romney gives them plenty
of other reasons. But they shouldn’t choose Obama on the
assumption that his performance over the past four years was
better than Romney’s would have been. And they should ask
themselves: Why should the outcome be any different during the
next four?  ( Luigi Zingales  is a professor of finance at the University
of Chicago Booth School of Business and a contributing editor of
City Journal. He is the author of “A Capitalism for the People:
Recapturing the Lost Genius of American Prosperity.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  GM must remain Government
Motors  awhile longer, on making  air conditioners more green  and
on why  Europe must get its banking union back on track ; Betsey
Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on  Mitt Romney and taxes ; William
D. Cohan on  JPMorgan’s missing $6 billion ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the
 best way to handle Iran ;  Jeff Rubin  on  the end of growth .  To contact the writer of this article:
Luigi Zingales at  Luigi.Zingales@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  