-- Wartime Expulsions Left Trail of Torture, Rape: Interview
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-09-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/world-war-ii-expulsions-left-trail-of-torture-rape-interview.html
It was ethnic cleansing on a scale
never seen before. As many as 14 million people, mainly women
and children, were forcibly removed from their homes and
deported to a country devastated and demoralized by war.  More than 500,000 Germans died in the post-World War II
expulsions from eastern  Europe . Yet the world had largely
forgotten this manmade tragedy until the Irish historian R. M. Douglas (the R. stands for Ray), a professor at Colgate
University in  New York , published “ Orderly and Humane .”  Nearly 70 years after the event, it is the first
comprehensive academic study of the episode and has been
welcomed in Germany, where discussion of the expulsions is still
a political hot potato in relations with its eastern neighbors.  “I tried for a very long time, as long as I possibly
could, not to write this book,” Douglas said in an interview in
Berlin, where he was promoting the German translation. “I knew
what a lot of work it was, and how sensitive it was.”  The 10 years of writing and research that followed reveal
the expulsions were anything but “orderly and humane” -- the
words used by the U.S., Britain and the  Soviet Union  in the 1945
Potsdam Agreement, which ordered this mass exodus.  Auschwitz Camp  Few may know, for example, that the main camp at Auschwitz
was used for Germans less than two weeks after the last Jewish
inmates left. Camps for Germans mushroomed across eastern
Europe; hundreds of them, if not thousands, Douglas said.  Rape was commonplace. Many were tortured to death; others
died of hunger. Expellees were transported to Germany in cattle
trucks and eyewitnesses described piles of corpses at the
arrival stations.  Part of the reason the expulsions have faded into obscurity
is that the story complicates national accounts of history in
eastern Europe, which cast the Germans exclusively as
perpetrators and their own people as victims, Douglas explained.  “It is perceived as almost disloyal to the memory of those
who were persecuted by  Nazi Germany  to acknowledge other forms
of suffering, especially German suffering,” Douglas said.  In Germany, discomfort in dealing with the question has
stemmed from fear of accusations of promoting German victimhood
at the cost of addressing the incomparable crimes of the
Holocaust. Discussion of the expellees was also muted for the
sake of diplomatic ties with eastern neighbors.  Childhood Trauma  So those who suffered as children -- and an estimated one
in four of the current German population is an expellee or a
descendant -- were discouraged from talking about their
experiences and left alone with suppressed trauma, Douglas said.  “I can’t tell you how many letters and e-mails I have
received from expellees, usually now in their mid-70s, who were
children in one of these very squalid camps,” Douglas said.  “The letters are almost stereotyped in their uniformity:
‘I had this horrendous experience as a child, then I wound up in
 Germany  and nobody wanted to hear,’” he said. “‘I was afraid I
would die without anyone knowing or caring about what happened
to me and now I can’t even talk to my family about it.’”  For the U.S. and Britain -- which not only saw the
expulsions as necessary but helped organize them -- it taints
the image of World War II as “a good war” fought to protect
Western humanism against brutal fascism, Douglas said.  “One’s blood chills at the sheer recklessness of the
people who conceived this operation -- I am talking now about
the Great Powers,” he said. “The notion that the allies were
unhappy bystanders watching while lots of people in faraway
places behaved in inhumane ways cannot survive even the most
cursory survey.”  Ethnic Strife  Mass population transfers are not just a thing of the past,
and Douglas said that part of what propelled him forward was
alarm at voices, especially in the U.S., saying they could be
useful policy instruments applicable to current ethnic strife --
for example in the former Yugoslavia, Darfur or south  Asia .  For Douglas, the broader lesson from history is that human
rights can never be denied on the basis of ethnicity -- a policy
he sees as “a very dangerous road” to take.  Germany has finally found a way to address this aspect of
its past without provoking the ire of its neighbors. Last month,
after years of heated debate, the government established an
international academic team to set up a  permanent exhibition  in
Berlin about the expulsions.  First initiatives by German expellees’ organizations for a
center for research and commemoration met horror and derision in
 Poland  and the  Czech Republic . In 2003, a Polish weekly
portrayed Erika Steinbach, the controversial lawmaker leading
the initiative, with a swastika armband and jackboots on its
cover.  “The German government has struck the right note in its
approach -- that there will be no attempt to whitewash the
German past,” Douglas said.  “There is an increasing awareness that reconciliation
through repression isn’t an option and that history must be
confronted,” he said.  (“Orderly and Humane” is published by Yale University
Press, 504 pages, $38. To buy the book in  North America , click
 here .)  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art,  Greg
Evans  on U.S. television and  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 