-- Xi-Li Inherit Weakest Growth Legacy Since Deng Opened China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-24T00:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/xi-li-inherit-weakest-growth-since-deng-xiaoping-opened-china.html
China’s new leaders are poised to
inherit the weakest economic growth since  Deng Xiaoping  three
decades ago and may need to borrow from his market-opening tool
kit to avert a steeper decline.  As the Communist Party prepares to anoint Vice President  Xi Jinping , 59, and Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , 57, next month as its
so-called fifth generation in charge, data from exports to
production signal the government will struggle this year to
reach its 7.5 percent expansion target. The retiring top echelon
took power in 2003 with  growth  above 9 percent and their
predecessors were bequeathed a 14 percent pace in 1993, a year
after Deng toured the southern boomtowns he’d spawned, urging
more change.  U.S. and European consumer spending that fueled expansion
for decades is waning, while the young labor force that filled
China’s factories is starting to shrink. Unless Xi and Li can
succeed where their predecessors came up short and curb state
enterprises, boost access to credit for private companies and
raise consumption, annual growth could slump to about 4 percent
by 2014, according to Roubini Global Economics.  “China faces its most pivotal challenges in more than a
decade, with a structural economic slowdown coinciding with a
major political transition,” said Ramin Toloui, global co-head
of emerging-markets portfolio management in Singapore at Pacific
Investment Management Co., which operates the world’s largest
bond fund. “The old-growth model is gone, but there is not yet
a clear and present plan for replacing it.”  Expansion Driver  China’s slowdown is adding to headwinds complicating the
global economy’s struggle with Europe’s debt crisis and  stunted 
U.S. job gains. China’s economy, the world’s second-largest,
accounted for 36 percent of expansion last year.  Toloui, who helps manage $100 billion in emerging-market
bonds at Pimco, sees China’s growth moderating to 7 percent in
2013 and remaining at about the same level through 2015,
compared with about 10 percent since Deng began dismantling Mao Zedong’s command economy in the 1980s. Pimco has $10 billion
invested in Chinese corporate bonds,  yuan  debt issued in  Hong
Kong  and currency contracts, Toloui said.  “The global economy has become hooked on supercharged
Chinese growth, and we’re not going to have that in future,”
said Susan Shirk, chairwoman of the 21st Century China Program
at the University of California-San Diego, who was responsible
for China at the U.S. State Department from 1997 to 2000. “For
the past decade to 15 years, we’ve had a reversal of the reform
impulse and the challenge is to get that back on track.”  Overcome Opponents  The next generation of leaders must overcome opponents of
change, including state-owned companies and banks that are
“powerful, resourceful and resolute in protecting their
interests,” according to a February  report  by the World Bank
and the Development Research Center of China’s State Council.  While former Premier Zhu Rongji continued Deng’s legacy of
reducing the government’s role by closing some state-run
companies in the 1990s and firing millions of workers, the
public-sector retreat slowed under current President Hu Jintao
and Premier Wen Jiabao. Since 2003, policy has shifted toward
supporting state-owned enterprises as a source of strength,
Beijing-based GK Dragonomics wrote in a May 24 report.  “The political system has been captured by vested
interests,” said Minxin Pei, a professor who specializes in
China at Claremont McKenna College in California. “If you want
to change the status quo, these interest groups are going to
lose out. They are inside the system and will resist.”  Consumer Grail  Officials have vowed since at least 2006 to make domestic
consumption an engine of expansion, even as its contribution to
GDP slumped to about 35 percent this year from 44 percent a
decade ago, according to Capital Economics Ltd. in London.  “Consumer consumption in China is not increasing at a
significant rate, contrary to everybody’s hopes,” said  Fred Smith , chief executive officer of  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of the
world’s largest cargo airline, on a Sept. 18 analyst conference
call. “The locomotive that has driven China’s growth is its
export industries, and with the situation in Europe and to a
lesser degree in North America, that is a significant issue for
the Chinese economy.”  China’s overseas shipments rose less than 3 percent for a
second consecutive month in August, industrial output grew at
the slowest pace in three years, and foreign direct investment
fell for a ninth month out of 10.  Optimism Dims  Manufacturers and retailers have grown less optimistic
about sales, with more employers cutting back jobs, a quarterly
survey compiled by New York-based research group CBB
International LLC showed today. The number of companies
reporting net hiring gains this quarter fell nine percentage
points to 32 percent, according to the report, which is modeled
on the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Beige Book.  Another challenge is that China’s pool of 15-to-24-year-
olds -- a mainstay for factories making cheap clothes, toys and
electronic products -- will shrink by about 67 million by 2030,
according to the United Nations. As the economy moves more
toward services, labor shortages will worsen, reaching a
shortfall of almost 18 million workers by 2017, said Tao Dong,
Credit Suisse Group AG’s Hong Kong-based head of Asia economics
excluding Japan.  China’s new leaders can unleash new sources of growth by
developing services, getting capital to more innovative private
companies, boosting wages, and bolstering pension plans and
health care, said  Stephen Roach , former nonexecutive chairman at
Morgan Stanley in Asia.  Urbanization Trend  He said China still has lots of “low-hanging fruit” to
harvest from urbanization, with the  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  estimating as many as 300 million
more people will move from the countryside by 2030 to join 600
million already living in cities. With higher-paying jobs, these
migrants will boost consumption and trigger more infrastructure
and housing construction if the government can improve the
social safety net, said Roach, now a senior fellow at  Yale
University  in New Haven, Connecticut.  “The focus has been on expanding the number of people
covered by the plans, but not on increasing the benefits,”
Roach said. “Until they do that, there’s a risk that all the
labor income that China generates through new jobs and
urbanization will be saved and not spent.”  Savings Rate  China’s  savings rate  is estimated at more than 50 percent
of GDP this year, the highest among major economies, exceeding
31 percent in India and 13 percent in the U.S., according to the
International Monetary Fund.  To boost services, China’s government needs to “get out of
the way,” said  Stephen Green , head of Greater China research
with Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong. The new leaders must
simplify rules and reduce the involvement of state and
provincial governments in businesses such as real estate, hotels,
financial services and entertainment, he said.  “This kind of supply-side reform will make or break the
growth outlook for the next decade,” Green said. “The real
danger” is “a gradual descent into a rigid, uncompetitive and
more state-dominated economy, growing only at 3 to 4 percent and
vulnerable to shocks.”  The incoming officials should deliver “quick wins” and
address short-term risks, said the World Bank and Development
Research Center report. These include increasing the flexibility
of bank deposit and lending rates, narrowing interest-rate
spreads, increasing dividends that state-owned enterprises pay
to the national budget and raising the retirement age, currently
60 for men and as high as 55 for women.  Services Gains  The transition to more service-based growth will create
investment opportunities in stocks such as Shanghai-based  Wuxi
PharmaTech (Cayman) Inc. (WX) , China’s biggest provider of research
and development services for drug companies, said Charlie Awdry,
a fund manager at Henderson Global Investors Ltd. in London.  “We are not interested in guys that manufacture T-shirts
in China because that’s a sunset industry that is moving
offshore,” said Awdry, whose firm had 63.6 billion pounds ($103
billion) in assets at the end of June. “We are interested in
guys like Wuxi who are looking to help the big western companies
develop their drugs in China and reduce their R&D costs.”  Wuxi’s  stock price  may surge almost 53 percent within 18
months, from $14.40 on Sept. 21, estimated Ingrid Yin, a New
York-based analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. Awdry said he also owns
shares of  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , China’s biggest Internet search engine,
and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , its biggest Internet company, partly
because the Web is at “the epicenter of all these positive
trends of rebalancing and income growth.”  Spending Power  Rising spending power prompted Templeton Emerging Markets
Group to hold fashion retailer  Giordano International Ltd. (709)  and
 China Merchants Bank Co. (600036) , which “reach down into the middle-and
even the lower-middle class,” said Hong Kong-based Executive
Chairman  Mark Mobius , who helps manage $40 billion.  China’s GDP is more than  129 times  bigger than in 1978,
when Deng ditched hardline Communist policies. His order the
following year to create a special economic zone in Shenzhen
sparked a market-driven boom that would transform the nation’s
economy, luring manufacturers from Hong Kong and Taiwan with tax
breaks and cheaper labor.  Other zones sprang up along the coastal belt, following an
investment-export formula that propelled industry and
construction, driven by what Goldman Sachs Group Inc. called the
fastest investment rate of any country it could find in history.
That rate is “likely to decline” from about 46 percent of GDP
even as it remains a key contributor to growth, Goldman Sachs
said in a Sept. 3 note.  ‘Not Over’  “China’s investment story is not over,” said  Wang Tao , an
economist with UBS AG in Hong Kong. “The issue is the pace of
investment and to make it sustainable and less wasteful.”  The National Development and Reform Commission this month
published approvals for infrastructure projects, including as
many as 2,018 kilometers (1,254 miles) of roads, that Nomura
Holdings Inc. estimates will cost about 1 trillion yuan ($158
billion). This means that the government still is relying on
investment to support expansion in the short term, Wang said.  The men poised to take the helm have given mixed signals
about their desire to fashion a more balanced economy. Xi is
known both for his market-friendly approach and his support for
state-owned enterprises, said Cheng Li, a China scholar at the
Washington-based Brookings Institution.  Princeling Leader  He’s a so-called princeling -- a child of Xi Zhongxun, one
of the nation’s leading revolutionary figures, whom Deng chose
to oversee the economic transformation of Guangdong province,
which includes Shenzhen.  As Xi rose through the party ranks, he governed provinces
including Zhejiang, home to some of China’s richest private
companies, and Shanghai, the commercial capital. He developed a
reputation for fighting corruption -- leading an anti-graft
campaign in Zhejiang and taking over Shanghai after a 3.7
billion-yuan corruption scandal that brought down the city’s
previous party chief,  Chen Liangyu .  While Li has championed low-cost housing and improved
health care, he may lack Zhu’s “political courage” and “Wen’s
quick sense of how to respond to crises,” said Brookings’ Li.  Neither of the two are “big thinkers like Deng,” with the
political might to push through economic restructuring, said
Melanie Hart in “ China’s Real Leadership Question ,” an August
report from the Washington-based Center for American Progress.  Political Challenges  Even without the economic challenges, the new leaders face
a raft of social and political problems. Thirty years of largely
unbridled industrial waste will cost at least 680 billion yuan
to clean up, estimates the Washington-based International Fund
for China’s Environment. The nation’s rural wealth gap last year
neared a level the UN says may spawn social unrest. And
escalating tension with neighbors from Japan to Vietnam over
territorial disputes has led to attacks on Japanese factories in
China and the closing of Japanese retail stores there.  China’s new leaders also may suffer from a period of
relative inertia as they concentrate on consolidating power
within the upper strata of the party, said Steve Tsang, director
of the China Policy Institute at the University of Nottingham in
England. The ouster in April of former Chongqing leader  Bo Xilai 
from the ruling Politburo created the country’s biggest
political scandal in a generation.  All this may further hamper their desire to take on
financial institutions and other state businesses. The World
Bank and Development Research Center report recommends setting
up a commission, supported by top leaders, to deal with
enterprises that enjoy partial or full monopolies and benefit
from special relationships with decision makers. Postponing
market-driven change could “risk the possibility of an economic
crisis,” the report said.  Or as Deng once put it: “Reform is China’s second
revolution.”  -- Kevin Hamlin . With assistance from Mike Forsythe in Beijing.
Editors: Adam Majendie, Melinda Grenier  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  