-- Yankees Stay One Game Ahead of Orioles as Winning Streak Ends
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-24T04:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-23/yankees-winning-streak-ends-with-5-4-loss-to-athletics.html
The  New York Yankees  had their
seven-game winning streak halted with a 5-4 home loss to the
Oakland Athletics, yet clung to their one-game division lead as
the  Baltimore Orioles  lost to the Boston Red Sox 2-1.  The Yankees fell to 88-64, while the Orioles have an 87-75
record with 10 games left in Major League Baseball’s regular
season. The Orioles and Athletics (86-66) are in position for
the American League’s two wild card playoff spots, which go to
the top non division-winners.  “Our guys have been focused on what we’re doing and not
worrying so much on what everyone else is doing,” Yankees
manager  Joe Girardi  said at a news conference. “We want to win
every game, that’s the bottom line. We have the chance to win
our division, a chance to win home field advantage. It’s a
disappointing loss, but you move on.”  After going 7-2 on their nine-game homestand, New York now
plays seven road games before returning to finish the regular
season at Yankee Stadium with a three-game series against the
 Red Sox . The Yankees open a three-game series in Minnesota today
and then travel to Toronto for four games.  “We came home and had a real good homestand and now we
have to carry it over to the road,” Girardi said.  The Yankees held a 4-3 lead yesterday before the Athletics
tied it in the fifth inning on a run-scoring single by Yoenis
Cespedes. Oakland scored the go-ahead run in the next inning on
Cliff Pennington’s single off losing pitcher Hiroki Kuroda.  Four Athletics’ relievers combined to shut out the Yankees
over the final 4 2/3 innings.  Orioles Schedule  The Orioles, who had a six-game winning streak snapped
yesterday, begin a seven-game homestand today with a double-
header against Toronto and face the  Blue Jays  twice more. After
playing the Red Sox three times, they finish the season on the
road with three games against the Tampa Bay Rays.  The team that doesn’t win the division would probably have
to meet the AL’s other wild card team in a one-game playoff.  The Athletics, who are four games behind the AL-leading
Texas Rangers in the AL West, lead the  Los Angeles Angels 
(84-69) by 2 1/2 games for the league’s second wild card berth.  The Chicago White Sox (81-71) lost their fifth straight
game yesterday, yet still hold a one-game lead over Detroit atop
the AL Central as the Tigers (80-72) were swept in a double-
header against the  Minnesota Twins .  The  St. Louis Cardinals  remain 2 1/2 games ahead of the
Milwaukee Brewers in the race for the second of the National
League’s two wild card playoff spots. The Cardinals (82-71) beat
the Chicago Cubs 6-3 yesterday, while the Brewers (79-73) topped
the Washington Nationals 6-2.  The Nationals’ lead atop the NL East is down to 4 1/2 games
over the  Atlanta Braves , who improved to 88-65 with a 2-1
victory against the  Philadelphia Phillies . The Nationals
clinched a spot in the postseason Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  