-- 
Six Economists Discuss the Financial Crisis That Won’t Go Away: Tom Keene

-- B y   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-11-04T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-04/six-economists-discuss-the-crisis-that-won-t-go-away-tom-keene.html
What will 2012 bring? We are in the
fifth year of a financial crisis, and it would be wonderful to
forecast a strong global recovery. Yet  Europe  is still trying to
right itself, joblessness stays high in the U.S., and China’s
ability to escape the malaise in the West remains an open
question.  What follows is not a series of set-in-stone predictions.
Instead we offer the results of careful conversations that link
economics with finance and finally, to investment.  The economists who speak here are not in search of single-
point certitude. That would be a foolish quest in this uncertain
era. Yet we are rewarded with insight from around the world,
insight that speaks to real interdependencies between economics
and politics, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Nov. 7
issue.  Among those interviewed, Bruce Kasman, chief economist for
JPMorgan Chase & Co., discusses unemployment in the U.S., while
Jonathan Anderson, chief economist for emerging markets at UBS
AG in  Hong Kong , talks about  China , and Neal Soss of Credit
Suisse provides a global perspective.  U.S. Economy  Kasman reflects on the role of labor, housing, fiscal
austerity, and capital investment in spurring a U.S. recovery  Question: How do you see the U.S. economy from now through
next year?  Answer: As we turn into the fourth quarter, the economy is
showing I think more strength than we had expected. What is
interesting is as we are picking up some steam, some of the
things that hurt us earlier in the year were temporary drags,
while we are now obviously facing a new set of drags, mostly
emanating from Europe. And we also have this uncertainty about
where U.S. fiscal policy is heading.  Question: Do you think that labor has been pushed aside by
technological progress, and corporate profits will forever be
stronger?  Answer: I’m not sure I buy that. In the early stages of
this recovery, corporations used every effort they could to get
productivity gains and not meet demand with extra labor. That
was normal behavior. I think that was changing as we went into
this year. Private payrolls did not weaken nearly as much as you
might have thought. At the same time, we have a government
sector, which is a fifth of the  labor force  and which is
continuing to shed workers. The other thing is we have an
economy that is not generating that much demand. If we get
3 percent growth for the third quarter, I think we will get
150,000 to 175,000 private payrolls. Obviously with the
 unemployment rate  where it is, we are not going to get the
utilization of labor up anywhere near where we would like it to
be.  Question: What happens to U.S. growth if Europe slips into
a recession?  Answer: The U.S. is sensitive to Europe, but I do not think
the U.S. is critically dependent on Europe for its growth. I
think Europe is a piece of the story, and unless they really
mismanage and create a true global financial event here, I think
the European recession will have impact on the U.S. but it will
not be dominant in terms of U.S. performance in the next few
quarters.  Question: You see 3 percent growth for the third quarter.
Take us through to this time next year.  Answer: So much depends on policy. If we don’t change the
fiscal path we are on and we allow all the tax cuts to expire
and the other spending to expire, we will have the economy skirt
recession but grow at something like a 1 percent pace. And then
where we are next year I think depends a lot on how Europe
manages its problems. If we can avoid the fiscal tightening, if
we can kind of switch from having near-term tightening to more
medium-term adjustments and keep fiscal policy neutral, I think
the economy could do O.K. here -- I would say 2 percent,
2.5 percent growth.  Question: Do we need an investment policy to generate jobs?  Answer: We need to make sure fiscal policy is not hurting
demand in the next few quarters, and right now it is scheduled
to do so. I think we need credible adjustments in the more
medium term, and obviously the supercommittee has the
opportunity to deal with that. And I think we would like to see
policies geared toward structural growth improvements here.
There are definitely things that can be done here both in terms
of the  tax code  as well as on the spending side that would be
favorable, although I do not think anything here is an immediate
boost in terms of significant size. This is not going to be an
economy that is going to get back to normal unemployment rates
anytime soon. I am not optimistic. Our basic mantra right now
is, yes, we can, no, we won’t.  Question: How do we jump-start investment?  Answer: The point to make is that we have had good
investment. Obviously, investment in real estate and structures
have been hurt. But equipment and software spending has been
averaging double-digit gains for the last two years. We are
running the best recovery in terms of  capital spending  since the
early 1980s. So there is strength in that area. I think the
problem in the economy right now is tied to real estate and
consumers, who I think are in the midst of post-traumatic stress
disorder coming out of this very bad event. And those are
difficult things to come back from very quickly. I do not have
any policy ideas that are going to dramatically change the
healing process in the housing market.  Australia Outlook  James Shugg , the London-based senior economist for Westpac
Banking looks at what a dip in China could mean for Australia.  Question: Can you remain optimistic about Australia in 2012
considering the slowdown in China,  Australia ’s chief customer
for iron ore and other commodities?  Answer: We are optimistic in a relative sense. We think the
Australian economy will grow 2.5 percent in 2012. But a lot of
that is catch-up from the huge disruptions in exports that we
had in the first half of this year from the flooding in
Australia. The domestic part of the economy that is not exposed
to mining actually is struggling at the moment. Retail sales,
the housing market, and house prices are falling slightly in
Australia, and unemployment has started to rise. And with
inflation very benign, we think the  Reserve Bank  will begin a
sequence of interest rate cuts.  Question: How linked is Australia to Europe and the U.S.?  Answer: A lot less than it used to be. But it is still
there: If America and Europe stop buying Chinese output, then
the Chinese economy slows, and that puts downward pressure on
the Australian economy. Australia is the repository of the
resources that China uses to turn into things the rest of the
world wants. Australia is in a very fortunate position because
of that, but it is still dependent upon a healthy global
economy.  Question: What about recession in the U.S.?  Answer: We are not forecasting a recession in the U.S. But
this is a very atypical recovery, with housing not
participating. I have been arguing that the U.S. needs to give
green cards to wealthy families in other parts of the world as
long as they buy a foreclosed house. That could make a
substantial difference in the housing market.  China Changes  Anderson, UBS’s senior global emerging-market economist,
talks about consumer prices, labor, and the equity markets in
China.  Question: What has changed in China in the last three
months?  Anderson: Fear has changed. We have seen China tightening.
We have seen a lot of stress in parts of the economy. People
have been selling down over the last two months, and all sorts
of horror stories have been floating around the press. We are
seeing some small and medium companies and developers and local
governments again coming under threat of bankruptcy. There is
some cooling of capacity. But the interesting thing is, if you
look at the demand side of the economy, for the last six months
things have been quietly moving ahead. And as a result, we find
ourselves in the soft rather than hard landing camp. And, in
fact, we are buying commodities at the moment tactically.  Question: There is volatility in the Chinese equity
markets. They are down 28 percent, 29 percent from the 2009
peak. Do you wake up every morning and say there is just
incredible equity value?  Answer: There is equity value, and we certainly do like the
China market on a structural basis given what we expect to see.
The question really is what turns that around and gets people
thinking about China in a different way. I do not think there is
going to be one big catalyst like a super stimulus easing policy
coming down. I think it is really more waking up over the next
two to three months and investors gradually realizing that this
place is not falling apart.  Question: Tell me about inflation and what you see for
2012.  Answer: Inflation is peaking. It is still up around the
6 percent range for consumer prices. A lot of that is food. Keep
in mind core inflation is well below. And the all-important
price for the consumer basket is pork, and now what we have are
pork prices that are starting to fall again from very elevated
levels. We expect inflation to be coming down toward 5 percent,
say, by the first quarter next year and staying around that
range. We are not looking for inflation to disappear.  Question: Can they create jobs for next year? I mean, is
the job machine of China going to be healthy in 2012 and 2013?  Answer: Well, bad news and good news, right? The bad news
is a slowing economy. That is going to show up in places like
construction. And exports actually are going to be fairly weak
in our view. And those are some of the most labor intensive
parts of the economy. The good news is that there is not a lot
of supply coming into the labor market. China does not need to
generate 10 million net jobs anymore. So China for the next five
years is an economy that really needs to keep jobs around, not
create them en masse.  Euro Crisis Effect  Julian Callow, head of international economics at  Barclays
Capital  in London, explains how dangerous a Greek default would
be and why  Germany  can’t bail out Europe  Question: Why should Americans care about the resolution of
the euro crisis?  Answer: If you go to your average person, say on Main
Street U.S.A., before the crisis, they might not have heard of
Bear Stearns. But you can be sure they would have heard of
 Greece . If Greece is having a substantial default on its debt,
that is very big news. And we cannot really predict exactly what
the consequences of that will be in terms of confidence through
the global financial system. We have had defaults historically
from Argentina, from  Russia , but this is a much more significant
event.  And if the IMF has to put up some money, that is one thing
Americans should care about, because we are going to have to
contribute.  Clearly, there is a reluctance on the part of the U.S. to
commit a whole lot more IMF funds to Europe. And the problem is
that if Italy is in difficulty and needs financing from the rest
of the euro area, the rest of the euro area cannot really stump
up enough capital to support that. Germany is only 27 percent of
euro zone GDP. Italy is 17 percent of euro zone GDP. So Germany
isn’t big enough in my view to be able to provide overwhelming
support.  Question: That’s the statistic of the week! I would have
said 40 percent for Germany.  Answer: We all depend on Germany in Europe to write the
checks. Germany has a very successful economy. But ultimately it
is not so large that it can just underwrite everything here.  Question: What actually does Barclays feel Europe will do
in 2012?  Answer: I think at best we can just hope for GDP to be
roughly flat. The danger is that we are, in fact, going to see
some weakness emerge and that the economy, therefore, is going
to move into recession. We are actually quite cautious about the
euro zone right now because there are profound uncertainties
regarding Greece.  Gulf Outlook  Marios Maratheftis, Dubai-based head of research for
Standard Chartered Bank, discusses the fallout from the Arab
Spring and the economic outlook for the Gulf.  Question: When you look forward to 2012, after this year’s
Arab Spring, what do you think we will see?  Answer: I think expectations on the political front,
especially in the  Middle East , need to be managed. Elections,
when they do happen, will not necessarily mean full democracy is
in place. Countries like Libya will need time to build the
necessary institutions to make sure that they eventually become
a functioning democracy. A similar case would apply to Egypt,
where there are still many unknowns with the elections that will
be going ahead pretty soon. Political uncertainty is relatively
high.  Question: This year has been a humbling experience for the
Dubai Stock Exchange. What’s the outlook for the United Arab
Emirates and other Gulf states?  Answer: I think the performance of the stock market in the
UAE has been pretty poor in 2011, not so much in terms of
returns, but in terms of liquidity. The performance of the
economy, on the other hand, has been much better. There has been
a recovery in place since 2010. This year has been even a better
year in many respects. But what I have seen in the UAE is that
the windfall gains from higher  oil prices  have not really been
spent. In the past, we saw high oil prices trigger an investment
boom in these countries. I think a very interesting country is
Qatar, which is growing around 18 percent this year. It is
mainly driven by an increase in gas production. In 2012 we will
see positive growth in the UAE, positive growth in Qatar, but it
will be slightly slower than 2011. There is uncertainty
regarding oil, and I think we have not seen a significant pickup
in projects in the region.  Question: Tell me how the sovereign wealth funds view next
year. What is their mood?  Answer: I think the mood has been a very conservative one.
Of course, the exception was  Saudi Arabia , which went ahead with
a very aggressive social spending plan. Qatar and the UAE were
probably increasing their savings. As Asian markets become
deeper and more mature, I think we are going to be seeing more
and more Middle East investments finding a home in the East and
not just the West.  Question: We have just seen the passing of the crown prince
in Saudi Arabia. Is there any question about stability within
the royal family?  Answer: The king is in charge of Saudi Arabia, and he is
still the main figure leading the country and leading politics.
So there is no power vacuum or leadership vacuum in the country.  Dangerous Joblessness  Soss, chief economist for Credit Suisse, looks at the world
and sees uneven recovery, dangerous joblessness, and struggling
central banks  Question: Neal, what is the Credit Suisse view of the
global economy for next year?  Answer: For 2012, I think the U.S. is likely to have a
persistent recovery -- inadequate in scale, choppy, mixed in
terms of sectors -- but nonetheless persistent growth. I think
China is in much the same circumstance. Europe is the other big
block. There, I think you have to anticipate that they’ll have
no growth at best for the early part of the year and
potentially, of course, something more severe than that.  Question: What will we see in investment?  Answer: I think in financial terms, the issue that is
starting to manifest itself is a great tug of war between two
conflicting forces. One force consists of the major central
banks around the world -- the Bank of  Japan , the  Federal
Reserve , the Bank of Canada, the  Bank of England , the ECB, the
Swiss National Bank. These major centers of financial life are
all holding rates constant at very low levels. When the rate of
return on cash is held fixed at low rates for a long horizon,
that pushes down volatility and in principle would, therefore,
push up the prices of risk assets all over the world.  On the other side, you have economic recoveries that are
half-hearted or worse and that are not getting the benefit of
ever-easier credit conditions. If anything, the shocks of the
great financial crisis and the reregulation that’s under way
mean that credit standards are fluctuating around a much tighter
average level than used to be the case. That means the economy
is more volatile than it was before. So now you sit there and
say, “Now wait a minute. If the economy is more volatile,
doesn’t that mean that risk assets should be cheaper?” But then
again, if the central banks are telling you that cash is going
to be at zero for a long darn time, doesn’t that tell you risk
assets should get more expensive? That’s the tug of war.  Question: This issue of unemployment is getting a little
old, isn’t it?  Answer: It’s getting a little dangerous, in my opinion. I
do really worry about the well-being of our society. You think
about America at the moment, we’ve got a Japanese financial
system. We’ve got a European labor market, and we have the kind
of income distribution that you find in an emerging market. I
don’t think any of those problems can be solved unless you solve
all three. It’s not obvious to me that there is a magic pill to
solve any one of them.  Question: Is there a public policy you’d like to see for
2012?  Answer: One issue is that as the European banks get
recapitalized, one of the mechanisms for raising their capital-
asset ratios will be for them to reduce their assets. And the
assets that I think come most naturally for a European bank to
get rid of are their U.S. dollar assets, particularly mortgages.
They have to fund them with dollars. Dollars are hard to come
by. The return from their point of view once they translate back
into their home currency is not that fantastic. Put all that in
the soup, and they’re going to be selling mortgages is my guess.  Question: Who is the natural buyer?  Answer: Well, the answer is not our banks here in the
states. It’s not clear to me how much the REIT industry can
take, so it seems to me that’s why we’re hearing the Federal
Reserve already speculating about a third round of quantitative
easing, with a special emphasis on buying mortgages.  Now does that clear the housing market?  It doesn’t. But if you don’t do that, then the housing
market sure gets worse.  Question: What role will austerity play in 2012?  Answer: The key is credibility over the long run. Telling
business leadership, telling households and so forth that we are
really serious about getting the public finances under control,
that we really are willing to acknowledge that there are
dimensions of the standard of living that we can’t afford -- at
least right now -- would, in fact, allow people to make their
plans for the future with a greater sense of confidence.  I think the U.K. is doing a better job of this than most. I
think the states within the U.S. -- not the federal government
but the states themselves -- are doing a better job. I think
that the half-hearted sorts of measures that you’re seeing in
some parts of Europe, and certainly at the federal level in the
U.S., have the opposite and negative effect on current economic
performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Power at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net  