-- Airlines Fail to Stop U.S. Bank Loan Guarantees to Air India
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/airlines-fail-to-block-u-s-guarantees-for-loans-to-air-india.html
U.S. pilots and airlines failed to
persuade a judge to temporarily block the Export-Import Bank of
the United States from providing Air  India  Ltd. with $1.3
billion in loan guarantees to buy  Boeing Co. (BA)  aircraft.  U.S. District Judge James Boasberg in  Washington  yesterday
rejected arguments by trade associations for the largest U.S.
airlines and pilots who said allowing the guarantees to proceed
while their legal challenge is being considered would harm
domestic airlines. Boasberg’s ruling came three days before
Boeing is scheduled to deliver one of its aircraft to Air India.  “Any injury to plaintiffs that may be caused by the
delivery of one or two planes to Air India is, at this stage,
wholly speculative,” Boasberg said. None of the airlines
participating the lawsuit offer a direct flight between the U.S.
and India, the judge said.  The  Air Transport Association of America Inc. , now called
Airlines for America, filed the lawsuit in November claiming the
bank didn’t seek public comment or consider the effect on the
U.S. airline industry before approving $1.3 billion in loan
guarantees and $2.1 billion in preliminary commitments to
support the sale of 30 Boeing aircraft to Mumbai-based  Air
India .  At least 27 of those aircraft are the 787 Dreamliner, which
lawyers for the trade groups said in a hearing last week are
“dramatically efficient.”  Industry, Jobs  The groups asked the court to declare the loan-guarantee
commitments unlawful, to prevent them from being issued, and to
require the Export-Import Bank to study their potential effect
on U.S. industry and jobs.  The Export-Import Bank is a federal agency that provides
loans, loan guarantees and insurance to companies based outside
the U.S. According to the lawsuit, the bank’s loan portfolio is
“overwhelmingly devoted” to financing the purchase of
airplanes for export. In fiscal year 2010, air transportation
loans accounted for 47 percent of the bank’s $75.2 billion in
total outstanding loans, according to the lawsuit.  The Air Line Pilots Association intervened in the lawsuit
on the airlines’ behalf.  The bank argued that the association lacks any legal basis
to challenge the loan commitments and that blocking the
commitments would be disastrous for the 77-year institution.  Remaining Competitive  “Today’s ruling ensures that America’s exporters will
remain competitive and have a level playing field in the global
marketplace,” Phil Cogan, a spokesman for the bank, said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. “The court’s decision to deny a
preliminary injunction allows the Export-Import Bank of the
 United States  to continue providing export financing, which
supports hundreds of thousands of U.S. jobs at no cost to
American taxpayers.”  Jean Medina , a spokeswoman for the airline association,
said “we are confident the court will find that there is clear
evidence demonstrating that the Ex-Im Bank failed to meet its
statutory requirements, including consideration of the impact of
these loan guarantees on the U.S. airline industry and its
employees,” according to an e-mailed statement.  Ian Gershengorn, deputy assistant attorney general in the
 Justice Department ’s civil division, told Boasberg during a Jan.
6 hearing that, if the Export-Import Bank didn’t guarantee the
Air India loans, the airline would have sought financing
elsewhere and bought aircraft from Airbus, the world’s largest
passenger-jet maker.  Gershengorn argued that Congress gave the bank wide
discretion to operate much like a commercial bank.  He also said several of the trade group’s largest members,
including United Air Lines Inc., Continental Airlines Inc.,
American Airlines Inc., Atlas Air Inc., Federal Express Corp.
and United Parcel Service Inc., didn’t join the lawsuit.  Chicago-based Boeing isn’t a party in the case.  The case is  Air Transport Association  of America Inc. v.
Export-Import Bank of the United States, 11-cv-02024, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  