-- Taiwan’s Ruling Party Declares Victory in Election
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n ,   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2012-01-14T11:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/taiwan-voters-head-to-polls-in-election-that-will-shape-ties-with-china.html
President Ma Ying-jeou’s Kuomintang
party declared victory in  Taiwan ’s election, a win that would
give the incumbent a renewed mandate to press for closer ties
with  China (CNGDPYOY)  that have eased decades-old tensions across the
Taiwan Strait.  Ma, the 61-year-old leader of the ruling Kuomintang Party,
was leading challenger Tsai Ing-wen, the Democratic Progressive
Party candidate, 51.9 percent to 45.3 percent with more than 11
million votes counted, Taiwan’s television network TVBS
reported. Other networks including Sanlih TV reported similar
results. Taiwan has 18 million eligible voters.  “The Taiwanese people can now be at ease and we hope that
cross strait peace won’t regress,” Kuomintang Party Honorary
Chairman Wu Po-Hsiung said at a rally in Taipei. “The biggest
challenge for the next four years will still be the economy.”  The party’s victory may offer Ma a mandate to forge ahead
with agreements expanding cross-strait trade and investment.
During the campaign, Ma said that a surge in two-way trade,
investment and tourism across the  Taiwan Strait  helped Taiwan’s
export-dependent economy.  As the count streamed in, crowds continued to build outside
KMT headquarters in Taipei where party tallies flashed on a
large screen. Perched on plastic stools, supporters waved Taiwan
and campaign flags, chanting “keep going Ma Ying-jeou.”  Official Count  With 84 percent of precincts and about 10 million votes
tallied, the official  Central Election Commission  website showed
Ma had a lead of 50.9 percent to Tsai’s 46.3 percent.  Ma, 61, and Tsai made final appeals to voters yesterday.
Tsai, 55, worked to damp concern that her victory would harm
relations with China, which considers Taiwan part of its
territory and has said Tsai’s go-slow approach to the mainland
will set back cross-strait relations. Ma touted Taiwan’s
economic growth and renewed ties with  China , which will also
undergo a leadership change this year.  “So support Ma Ying-jeou’s cross-strait policy,” Ma said
at a rally yesterday in Taiwan’s Miaoli County. “That will
raise Taiwan’s competitiveness.”  Tsai countered that the links Ma engineered with the
mainland risk binding the island’s economy too closely to China
and eroding its political freedoms. Ma is backed by business
leaders including Terry Gou, chairman of Foxconn Technology
Group, which has more than 1 million employees in China.  “Everyone’s very confident, and the stock market will
rally on Monday,” Gou told Taiwan television station TVBS
outside a polling station. “If this election leads to any
changes or uncertainties, everyone will have to pay the price
for their own decisions.”  The U.S. stance on the election became a focal point of
attention yesterday after  Douglas Paal , a former head of the
American Institute in Taiwan, the de facto U.S. embassy, was
cited in the local media as saying he supports the so-called
1992 consensus that Ma’s Kuomintang and the government in
Beijing use as a basis for their negotiations.  Tsai doesn’t recognize the consensus, in which both sides
agree that there is only one China, with each party differing on
the meaning. Paal also criticized Tsai’s plan to forge a
“Taiwan Consensus” on relations with the mainland, according
to the English-language Taipei Times.  U.S. Role  Former Senator  Frank Murkowski , an Alaska Republican who is
an election observer, told reporters in Taipei that Paal’s
comments were “irresponsible” because they gave voters the
impression that the U.S. was backing Ma in the election. The
U.S. says it isn’t taking sides in the contest. Paal, in an e-
mail, said he spoke “only for myself” in making comments on
the consequences of policy choices.  “It’s hard to imagine bilateral relations without the 92
consensus,”  Cher Wang , Taiwan’s richest person and chairwoman
of  HTC Corp. (2498) , told reporters yesterday in Taipei. “It’s
impossible to understand there are people who don’t believe in
the 92 consensus.”  Under Ma’s administration, a six-decade ban on direct air,
sea and postal links with the mainland came to an end. Two-way
 trade  reached $160 billion last year, a 10 percent increase from
2010, according to Chinese customs statistics.  As  China (CNGDPYOY) ’s economy slows, Taiwan’s growth also is
 moderating . Growth  slowed  to 3.4 percent in the quarter ended
Sept. 30, from 6.6 percent in the first three months of last
year. Nomura Holdings Inc. forecasts GDP will drop 0.3 percent
in the current quarter from a year earlier.  Taiwan’s voters also choose a new parliament today, the
first time the two elections have been held on the same day. The
ruling KMT kept control of Taiwan’s Legislative Yuan when the
opposition DPP held the presidency from 2000-2008. The division
of power resulted in delays in implementing government policies,
from financial-sector consolidation to defense purchases.  The candidate with the plurality of votes wins, and there
is no run-off election. The inauguration takes place in May.
Taiwan’s presidents can serve a maximum of two four-year terms.  James Soong, the People First Party candidate, had less
than 3 percent of the vote, TVBS and the Central Election
Commission reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  