-- Haley’s Picking Romney Shocks Tea Party Disrupting Republicans
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-01-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/haley-s-picking-romney-shocks-tea-party-disrupting-republicans.html
South Carolina  Governor Nikki Haley
is betting her future on Mitt Romney’s, exhausting the support
that Tea Partyers once supplied her.  Haley endorsed Romney in the state’s Jan. 21 Republican 
presidential primary, a decision that might vault her into 
national office or stall her career in Columbia, scorned by 
those who elected her.  “It was like your best friend took up with a really bad
boyfriend,” said Karen Martin, 54, an organizer for the Tea
Party chapter in Spartanburg County.  Haley, 39, was elected in 2010 as a champion of the
movement that pushed states’ rights and fiscal rectitude. The
daughter of Indian immigrants, she was an adversary of the
Legislature’s good-old-boy network and became the first woman
to run the  state  that ranks 50th in female representation, said
Karen Kedrowski, political science chairwoman for  Rock Hill ’s
Winthrop University.  That such a politician would endorse Romney, whom Newt
Gingrich has called someone trying to “pretend he’s a
conservative,” was jaw-dropping, Haley’s Tea Party and
Libertarian supporters said in interviews this week.  Martin, whose county went for Haley by 59 percent in 2010,
got six calls from allies in an hour after Haley announced her
decision last month, she said. “People were angry,
disappointed, betrayed, hurt,” she said. She portrayed the rift
as a family fight.  Principled Pick  Romney led Gingrich 23 percent to 21 percent in the state,
according to a poll conducted Jan. 11 for the Augusta Chronicle
and Savannah Morning News that had a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.8 percent.  Haley said in a telephone interview that her choice of the
former Massachusetts governor and private-equity executive at
Bain Capital LLC aligned with her principles.  “I did not want a bureaucrat,” she said. “I did want a
businessman. I didn’t want anybody who had anything to do with
the chaos in  Washington .”  Haley’s endorsement may lift her into national politics --
an ambition she has denied -- or make her a one-term governor,
said Talbert Black, 42, a Libertarian who organized  Tea Party 
support for Haley in her gubernatorial race.  A December  poll  by Winthrop University found Haley with
only 52.5 percent approval in her own party, and at 34.6 percent
total. A Clemson University poll the month before showed 64
percent approval among Republicans, a level that was “neither
particularly good nor particularly bad,” said David Woodard, a
professor of political science there.  Dawning Realization  Fervor was cooling even before Haley threw her support to
Romney over Tea Party favorites such as  Rick Perry  and  Michele Bachmann , and she compromised too much with the Legislature she
ran against in 2010, Black said.  “People were slowly coming to believe that maybe she
didn’t mean it,” he said in an interview in a restaurant in
Columbia, the state’s capital. “She’s gotten that insider
disease that says you have to compromise to get along.”  An interview Marie Claire magazine published this month --
“Will Nikki Haley Be Our First Female President?” it was
titled -- caused further heartburn, he said.  She included  Hillary Clinton  as one of her role models,
Black said. “She also included  Margaret Thatcher , and Joan Jett, so maybe it was just strong women. But Hillary Clinton?”  Not Speaking  The Haley adminstration’s attempt to marshal Tea Party
groups into an advisory panel last year showed him that the
movement was being used, he said. Black said as much in an e-
mail he circulated and hasn’t spoken to Haley since.  Supporters say Haley remains influential.  “There are Romney internal polls that show she’s
popular.” said Rock Hill Republican state Representative Ralph
Norman. “That’s why you see her being used by the Romney
campaign in the first place.”  The endorsement made sense to him: Romney backed Haley’s
gubernatorial campaign when she was still trailing the primary
field, he said.  The governor said anger is exaggerated.  “I support the Tea Party,” she said. “And I support the
fact that there are Republicans, Democrats and independents that
all know what they want.”  Romney promised to keep the federal government from
interfering with South Carolina if elected, she said. She cited
the withdrawn National Labor Relations Board complaint against a
 Boeing Co. (BA)  expansion in North Charleston, and federal legal
challenges to the state’s anti-immigration and voter
identification laws.  Healthy Dissent  The rancor among Republicans, “is normal,” she said.
“That’s what happens in a primary.”  Meanwhile, as her old supporters turn away, her pre-
existing opponents are digging in, said Democratic critics.  Her missteps include replacing Darla Moore, a long-time
University of South Carolina trustee, with a campaign donor,
said Dick Harpootlian, a lawyer who heads the state  Democratic
Party . Moore had contributed so much money to the university
that its business school is named after her.  Haley required employees in most state offices to answer
the phone with “It’s a great day in South Carolina,” which he
called an embarrassment in a state that trails the U.S. by many
economic and social measurements.  Palmetto Poverty  The state’s 2010 poverty rate was 16.4 percent in the past
year, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. The national rate was
13.8 percent.  South Carolina’s unemployment was  9.9 percent  in November,
compared with a national  8.7 percent .  Its economic health in the third quarter ranked 42nd among
U.S. states, according to Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of
States data.  Since Haley took office, the  Bloomberg State Index of South
Carolina  equities have trailed the  Standard & Poor’s 500  by
almost one percentage point. Its largest companies by market
capitalization are  SCANA Corp. (SCG) , a Cayce-based holding company
for utility and telecommunication operations;  Sonoco Products
Inc. (SON) , a packaging manufacturer in Hartsville; and  AVX Corp. (AVX)  of
Fountain Inn, which makes electric components.  Business backs Haley, said David Wilkins, the state’s first
Republican House of Representatives speaker and an ambassador to
 Canada  for former President  George W. Bush .  “The business community is pleased with her strong
emphasis on  job creation  and all her efforts to market the
state,” said Wilkins, who backs Perry in the primary.  The people, for now, no longer belong to her, and her
endorsement will deliver nothing for Romney, said Martin, the
Spartanburg Tea Party leader.  “He is at the bottom of our list,” she said.  “Perry
would have made more sense. Bachmann, that would have made
sense. Even  Newt Gingrich  would have made more sense, although
he’s had his baggage.”  “Romney, that was too far for us to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta  at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  