-- Allen Stanford’s Lawyers Can’t Quit His Case, Judge Says
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-01-13T23:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/allen-stanford-s-lawyers-can-t-quit-criminal-case-before-trial-judge-says.html
R. Allen Stanford’s attorneys must
defend him at a $7 billion investment fraud trial that will
begin Jan. 23 in Houston federal court, said a U.S. judge who
rejected the lawyers’ bid to quit.  Stanford’s court-appointed attorneys, Ali Fazel, Robert
Scardino, John Parras and Ken McGuire, asked to exit his case in
a motion filed on Jan. 11, less than two weeks before the start
of jury selection. They claimed they hadn’t been given enough
time or resources to prepare an adequate defense against what
they describe as a complicated financial fraud case.  “The defense team’s primary reason for seeking such relief
is based upon its self-proclamation that Stanford’s right to
effective assistance of counsel will be impaired,” Hittner said
in a two-page order that also rejected the lawyer’s bid for a
three-month delay in starting the trial.  “The court notes that the defense team maintains this
position despite the fact that two of its lawyers -- Scardino
and Fazel -- have been appointed to this case since November
2010, and the other two lawyers -- Parras and McGuire -- have
been appointed to this case since March 2011,” Hittner said.  Stanford, 61, has been imprisoned as a flight risk since he
was indicted in June 2009 on charges of defrauding investors
through allegedly bogus certificates of deposit at his Antigua-
based Stanford International Bank Ltd. Stanford denies all
wrongdoing.  Pretrial Hearing  Hittner said in a separate order late today that Stanford’s
lawyers could argue yet another delay request, which they filed
under seal this afternoon, at a pretrial hearing next week.  The lawyers seek “a continuance on the basis that a non-
attorney member of the defense team will be unavailable to
assist at the commencement of trial,” Hittner said in the
ruling. He ordered the government and Stanford’s lawyers to
continue “full trial preparation” in the meantime.  The former financier was declared indigent and given a
taxpayer-financed defense because all of his assets were frozen
by court order after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
sued him in February 2009.  Fazel and Scardino have complained about time and funding
restrictions imposed on the defense team by Hittner and the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans , which approves trial budgets
for court-appointed attorneys.  Prison Attack  They said Stanford has had too little time since he was
declared mentally competent on Dec. 22 to adequately review the
thousands of documents necessary to assist in his defense.
Stanford spent almost nine months in a prison rehabilitation
program recovering from a head injury suffered during a 2009
prison attack and an addiction to anxiety drugs prescribed
following the assault.  Fazel said in court filings that the defense team was also
hampered by the yearend resignation of all its document-
management and trial-preparation contractors over unpaid bills
dating back to September. The contractors returned to work in
early January after an appellate court granted them partial back
pay and ordered them to continue working.  Lead prosecutor Gregg Costa opposed delaying the trial by
more than a few weeks, citing efforts by Stanford’s defense team
to get Stanford bail and to fight his competency declaration.
Stanford’s attorneys have also filed multiple constitutional
challenges in his case, none of which have succeeded.  Certain Issues  “The defense obviously has devoted extraordinary resources
to certain issues,” Costa said in a filing earlier today. “It
is time for the defense to devote those resources to the
trial.”  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the judge’s rulings today.  “We’re preparing for trial,” Fazel said in a telephone
interview after Hittner denied him permission to quit. He
declined to comment further, citing a gag order banning lawyers
from publicly discussing the case.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 