-- Americans Pay Wall St. $20B for Bad Swaps
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-01-13T20:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/americans-clueless-paying-wall-street-20-billion-for-bad-swaps.html
Seven months after  Hurricane Katrina 
ripped holes in the Superdome’s roof in 2005, Louisiana State
Bond Commission members made what they were told would be “the
best of a bad situation” in financing the stadium’s renovation.  Acting against the recommendation of their staff, the
commissioners voted for a Merrill Lynch & Co. plan to use debt
and interest-rate swaps to pay for the job. While the deal
helped keep the  National Football League ’s New Orleans Saints
from leaving town -- and the arena got new scoreboards while
12,000 seats were converted to luxury class -- taxpayers became
the losers for supporting a winning team.  The cost of financing the work has reached $42 million,
almost a quarter of the $187 million spent on Katrina-related
repairs and enhancements and three times as much as expected.
The deal became so expensive that the state repurchased the debt
sold by the New York investment bank to stop the bleeding.  “It was a flawed idea out of the gate,” said  Robert Brooks , who teaches financial management at the University of
 Alabama  in Tuscaloosa.  Scores of public officials, including Michael Bennet, now a
U.S. senator from  Colorado , and Jon Corzine, the former governor
of  New Jersey , bought the same Wall Street pitch: So-called
auction-rate bonds would lower financing costs by allowing them
to pay short-term rates, and interest-rate swaps would protect
them if markets moved in the wrong direction.  Move Defended  Corzine didn’t respond to a request for comment. A
spokesman for Bennet, Adam Bozzi, defended the move made when
the senator was superintendent of the Denver public schools,
saying that the financing put the district “in much better
financial shape.”  Brooks said that it was “no surprise that the leaders went
for something with that level of complexity. An auction-rate
security with a swap is much more exciting for the officials,
but it’s terribly expensive for taxpayers.”  Government overseers often didn’t understand that the
market was controlled by the banks that sold the derivatives
they claimed would minimize risk, and that could impose
penalties when deals unraveled.  From Portland to Puerto Rico, officials gambled with sewer,
road, school, pension and stadium financing. Municipal
securities made up about half of the $330 billion auction-rate
market when it collapsed in February 2008, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Taxpayers have forked over $20 billion in fees
for swap agreements in the past five years, according to Andrew Kalotay, chief executive officer of the debt-management firm
Andrew Kalotay Associates Inc. in  New York .  ‘They’re Unsophisticated’  Public officials, Kalotay said, “think they know what
they’re doing, and they screw up.” Few have acknowledged their
mistakes. “No one wants to say out loud they’re
unsophisticated,” said Marcus Stanley, policy director of the
Washington-based nonprofit Americans For Financial Reform, a
coalition of unions and civil rights and consumer advocates.  “In most cases, the elected political leadership are part-
time amateurs,” said Roger Noll, professor emeritus of
economics at  Stanford University  near Palo Alto,  California .
“They get a noisy political grassroots movement that wants to
subsidize a team, and then they get sold a bill of goods.”  In Louisiana, Treasurer John Neely Kennedy, who serves as
bond commission chairman, warned before the Merrill Lynch plan
passed in March 2006 that the swaps could backfire. There was so
much pressure to overhaul the 37-year-old stadium for the Saints
that he said he felt as if he had “a gun to my head.”  Drew Brees  The NFL franchise did stay put in the arena, known since
October as the Mercedes-Benz Superdome. Not only that, the
Saints acquired quarterback Drew Brees, won the Super Bowl in
2010 and will play the San Francisco 49ers in the second round
of this year’s playoffs on Jan. 14.  Still, the costs to the state are “outrageously high,”
Brooks said. That the auction-rate deal was done in part to
satisfy team owner Tom Benson made it all the more imprudent,
said Robert Baade, a professor at Lake Forest College near
 Chicago  and co-author of a 2006 study that found subsidizing the
Saints after Katrina wouldn’t make economic sense.  The Bayou State’s costs spiraled out of control after
banks, reeling from the credit crisis, stopped acting as buyers
of last resort at auctions of floating-rate securities.  Rates on the debt surged, going as high as 20 percent. The
swaps didn’t cover the difference. Investors shunned the market.
“If the banks were cardiologists, they would have been sued and
thrown in jail years ago for what they have done,” Brooks said.  ‘Ignorance No Excuse’  The  Louisiana  Stadium and Exposition District did sue,
claiming bond-insurer Financial Guaranty Insurance Co., a unit
of New York-based FGIC Corp., sold the agency protection that
became worthless and that Merrill Lynch fraudulently failed to
tell officials everything they needed to know.  Charles “Buddy” Roemer, Louisiana governor from 1988 to
1992, said he doesn’t buy the contention that Tim Coulon, who
was the head of the stadium agency at the time of the deal and
urged the bond commission to approve it, and the commissioners
didn’t have enough information. “I don’t think ignorance is a
good excuse here,” Roemer said. “I don’t think
unsophistication is a good excuse. All these entities pay large
sums for legal and financial advice.”  In May 2010, U.S. District Judge  Loretta Preska  dismissed
the claims against FGIC. The state has appealed. Officials with
FGIC didn’t respond to telephone calls seeking comment.  Court Action  Preska tossed out seven counts against Merrill Lynch, now a
subsidiary of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
Corp., letting stand accusations of breach of fiduciary duty,
intentional and negligent misrepresentation and fraud. The bank
denied the claims in its response. “LSED and its sophisticated
advisers fully understood the risks of the bonds and knowingly
accepted those risks in exchange for a lower  interest rate ,”
said  William Halldin , a spokesman for the bank, in an e-mail.  Coulon, who left the agency in 2009, declined to be
interviewed, saying in an e-mail that he was “proud of the work
and creativity” that went into the Superdome project.  Jason Redmond, a spokesman for the treasurer’s office, said
Kennedy declined to be interviewed. Greg Bensel, a team
spokesman, didn’t respond to a request for an interview with
Benson, who bought the Saints in 1985 for $70 million.  Democrat Kathleen Blanco, Louisiana’s governor in 2006,
said that even in retrospect the auction-rate bond deal was
worth it. “Losing the Saints was not an option, as far as I was
concerned,” she said by e-mail. “With no crystal ball it was
impossible to predict the colossal failure of the financial
system and its attending costs.”  Other Money  In the end, the money spent to get the Superdome ready for
the 2006 football season came mostly from other sources,
including the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the NFL and
the state general fund. The auction-rate bonds covered only
about $40 million, according to financial reports from the
stadium district.  Most of the rest of the $294 million the bonds brought in
went to refinance earlier borrowing. The price tag -- which was
originally expected to be $14 million -- will be at least $42
million, including fees for the securities and swaps, the cost
of the auctions and expenses incurred when the bonds were
repurchased, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The costs have been steep for other auction-rate borrowers.
New Jersey, which got into the debt under Corzine, and the
Denver schools, which issued the securities under Bennet, later
borrowed money to end related interest-rate swap agreements. New
Jersey paid $122.6 million in one case, and the school district
spent about $62 million.  Denver Schools Respond  Michael Vaughn, a spokesman for the district, said the 2008
deal cut the cost of unfunded liabilities for retirees,
facilitated the merger of its pension plan with a state fund and
hire more teachers. It allowed the school system “to avoid
severe budget cuts,” he said.  Louisiana didn’t need the burden, said state Representative
Jim Fannin, a Democrat from Jonesboro. The state this fiscal
year cut spending on health care and prisons, canceled workers’
pay raises and eliminated 4,000 positions.  “There are so many other needs,” said Fannin, chairman of
the Appropriations Committee of the  House of Representatives .  The bonds were another chapter in the financial
relationship between the state and the 45-year-old Saints, a
team so popular fans filled the stadium during the 20 years it
took to notch a winning season, though in the 1980s some started
wearing paper bags on their heads during the games.  Keeping Saints  “We love our Saints,” said Tricia Miller, a lawyer in  New
Orleans . “The Saints are what keeps our city together, before,
during and after Katrina.”  Before the hurricane, Benson had sought a new home for the
team. The Superdome lacked the revenue-boosting amenities of
stadiums in larger, wealthier markets. In 2001, after he
complained it failed to meet league standards, Louisiana agreed
to pay the Saints $180.5 million over 10 years, a subsidy meant
to put it in the middle of NFL franchises in terms of revenue.  The state had to borrow, from Merrill Lynch and others, to
make some of those payments. When the stadium agency in early
2005 started planning to restructure its debt, one goal was to
free up money to help fund the subsidies, Whit Kling, director
of the bond commission, said at the meeting where the Merrill
Lynch auction-rate deal was approved. The bank had been hired
after the agency issued a request for proposals through the bond
commission in April 2005, according to court documents.  Difficult Spot  Katrina changed the equation. Louisiana was, as Kennedy,
the state treasurer and commission chairman, put it at the
meeting, “between a rock and a hard place.”  Revenue from the hotel tax dedicated to paying off
Superdome debt had plummeted to about $24 million in 2006 from
about $41 million before the hurricane, which killed an
estimated 1,400 in New Orleans. The stadium, where more than
25,000 people had taken shelter after much of the city was
flooded, needed repairs as well as enhancements.  The Saints were playing “home” games elsewhere, including
San Antonio, where Benson owns car dealerships. Not only was he
noncommittal about the team’s future, the mayor of San Antonio
said they were talking about a relocation to  Texas .  Before they voted, Kennedy told commissioners: “I’m not
enamored with this proposal.” According to a transcript, he
said he thought paying FGIC $13 million for insurance was
“unconscionable” and that he was uncomfortable with the swap.  “I just want everybody to understand what we are doing,”
Kennedy said. “This is a derivative. It can work in our favor.
It can also work not in our favor.”  Best Course  For his part, Coulon called the deal “the best of a bad
situation,” according to the transcript. The Superdome had been
an economic force in the city, attracting conventions, concerts
and events such as the Essence Music Festival. “It’s not all
about the sports franchises,” Coulon said. “It’s about the
economic viability of the city, the symbolism of the Dome.”  The plan was approved on a voice vote. And most everything
about the deal that could go wrong did.  Credit markets began to melt down as the contagion from the
sub-prime-mortgage market spread in 2007. FGIC lost its AAA
rating in January 2008, and buyers became less interested in the
securities because the lower grade meant there was more risk
that they wouldn’t get paid in the event of a default. The
auction-rate market fell apart the next month.  The state decided it couldn’t afford the $45 million fee to
unwind the swaps associated with the bonds, nor the cost of
issuing a new set to pay off the existing securities. It bought
the debt back after the Legislature in March 2008 approved the
move. Kling said the plan is to hold it until it matures.  IRS Fee  While federal law doesn’t allow such purchases, the
 Internal Revenue Service  made exceptions after the auction-rate
debacle. The state will have to pay a fee of about $8 million
for the privilege, according to Kling.  The bonds earn 1.25 percent now, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. “We’re paying ourselves,” Kling said.  In April 2009, the state committed to spending more than
$400 million to secure Benson’s promise the team would stay in
New Orleans through 2025.  The stadium agency made several improvements to the
Superdome, including adding 15 boxes and 3,400 seats close to
the team benches, at a cost of $85 million. A company Benson
owns, Zelia LLC, bought a mostly empty 26-story building next to
the stadium and Benson pledged to renovate it, and the state
signed a $153 million, 20-year lease for 320,000 square feet of
office space for more than 30 agencies. Benson and the stadium
agency signed a contract to redevelop the nearby New Orleans
Centre mall. The state promised the Saints as much as $6 million
a year if stadium revenue doesn’t meet undisclosed targets.  In October, Superdome naming rights were sold to Daimler
AG’s Mercedes-Benz unit for about $60 million. Republican
Governor Bobby Jindal said that may produce enough to
“significantly reduce or eliminate taxpayer funding currently
spent to support the Saints.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 