-- AMR as ‘Last Plum’ Stirs Interest After Airline Ranks Cut
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-01-13T21:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/amr-as-last-plum-stirs-merger-interest-after-airline-ranks-cut.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s reorganization in
bankruptcy has made the American Airlines parent a possible
acquisition target for  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and buyout firm TPG
Capital in what may be a final round of industry consolidation.  US Airways hired Millstein & Co. and Barclays Plc as
advisers, a person familiar with the matter said today. TPG, led
by  David Bonderman , is in the early stages of an evaluation, and
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  is using  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  to study
options for AMR, two other people said yesterday.  Mergers have thinned the ranks of major U.S. full-service
airlines to four, counting AMR, from seven in 2005. American is
now restructuring in Chapter 11 after sitting out those deals,
posting annual losses since 2008 and falling to third place in
the U.S. by traffic while rivals bulked up.  “It’s the last plum out there,” said  Ray Neidl , a Maxim
Group LLC analyst in New York. Neidl said he expected interest
from TPG in tandem with  US Airways , because “TPG knows
airlines, and you’d really want an equity partner coming in
there with you.”  TPG has reached no decision about whether to take a stake
in AMR or buy the company outright, said one of the people, who
like the others asked not to be identified because the
discussions are private.  No Decisions  US Airways, the fifth-largest U.S. airline, and Delta, No.
2 in the world, also haven’t made any decisions, people familiar
with the matter said. Barclays is US Airways’ affinity credit
card provider, and Millstein & Co. is a turnaround firm founded
by former U.S. Treasury Department Chief Restructuring Officer
 Jim Millstein .  Spokesmen for American, US Airways, Delta and Blackstone
all declined to comment. AMR has exclusive rights for a minimum
of 120 days to as long as 18 months to submit a plan of
reorganization, keeping any unwelcome suitor at bay.  “It will be the middle of the year before we see anything
definitive come out on these things,” said  Robert Mann , a
former American executive who is now president of aviation
consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in  Port Washington ,  New York .  Delta fell 0.2 percent to $8.85 at the close in New York
trading, while Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways dropped 1.3
percent to $5.97.  Early Intervention?  Delta may be moving early in AMR’s bankruptcy to keep the
carrier from developing broad support among the creditors
committee for its own plan,  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan & Co
analyst, said in a report today. Delta was a year into its own
bankruptcy when it fought off a hostile bid from US Airways,
largely on opposition from Delta’s own creditors.  “We remain skeptical of the viability of AMR as a post-
bankruptcy airline,” said Keay, setting the odds of AMR
remaining independent at 20 percent, at most.  US Airways, created in a 2005 combination between its
predecessor of the same name and  America West Holdings Corp. (AWA) , is
the airline cited most often by analysts as a potential American
partner. Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker said in April that
he sees “one big deal left” in the domestic industry, and that
US Airways would be involved.  Delta bought Northwest Airlines Corp. in 2008, a year after
thwarting US Airways’ bid, and in 2010 former  United Airlines (UAL) 
parent UAL Corp. merged with Continental Airlines Inc. to form
United Continental Holdings Inc., the world’s largest carrier.  American’s Assets  American held the top spot by traffic before the Delta and
United deals. Its assets include flight slots at  London ’s
 Heathrow Airport ,  Europe ’s busiest, and the biggest operations
in  Latin America  among U.S.-based airlines.  Delta may be interested only in pieces of AMR shed while in
Chapter 11 protection, Mann said in an interview.  The larger airline also may be trying to disrupt AMR’s trek
through bankruptcy and a possible combination with US Airways,
said Jeff Straebler, an independent airline analyst based in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “It’s a cynical ploy to disrupt others, to confuse the
process and make it more difficult,” Straebler said in an
interview. Delta butted heads with AMR in 2009 over an alliance
with  Japan Airlines Co. (9205)  A combination of the two U.S. airlines
probably couldn’t win regulatory approval because it would have
too much control in the domestic market, Straebler said.  ‘Usual Suspects’  TPG is “among the usual suspects” for possible airline
investments, and may be assessing whether to get involved with
AMR alone or with a partner, said Mann, the consultant.  The Fort Worth-based private-equity firm has had a close
relationship in the past with US Airways, and Bonderman, 69, is
now chairman of  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  after holding that post at
Continental in the 1990s.  Formerly known as Texas Pacific Group, TPG bought
Continental out of bankruptcy in 1993 and invested in Midwest
Air Group Inc., America West, Tiger Airways Pte and Ryanair. The
firm backed a failed takeover bid for  Australia ’s Qantas Airways
Ltd. in 2007 and lost an attempt to acquire US Airways in 2002.  TPG worked with American in 2009 on an offer to pump $1.1
billion into  Japan Airlines (9205)  to help avert bankruptcy and keep
Delta from luring the carrier out of the Oneworld alliance.
While Japan Airlines eventually restructured in bankruptcy, it
stayed in American-led Oneworld. The investment never occurred.  Lighthouse Holdings Inc., which is owned by investment
funds affiliated with TPG and Pharos Capital Group LLC, bought
90 percent of AMR’s American Beacon Advisors Inc. in 2008. AMR
sold Beacon, which manages $57 billion in assets, for $480
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  