-- An Upside-Down Recovery Goes Back to Square One: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-01-13T00:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/an-upside-down-recovery-goes-back-to-square-one-caroline-baum.html
The U.S. recession may have ended in
June 2009, according to the official arbiter of the  business
cycle . But by all signs, the recovery is just beginning.  Expected fourth-quarter growth of 3 percent to 3.5 percent
is already being dismissed as another flash in the pan: been
there, done that. After all, in late 2009 and early 2010 the
 U.S. economy  produced three consecutive quarters of real gross-
domestic-product growth just shy of 4 percent, only to see it
fade. Real GDP rose less than 1 percent in the first half of
2011.  What’s different now? For starters, the composition of
current growth more closely resembles that seen in the early
stages of recoveries, according to  Joe Carson , the head of
global economic research at AllianceBernstein LP in New York.  “Consumer durables and housing accounted for roughly half
of the increase in real GDP during the fourth quarter,” Carson
says, based on his projections.  Housing? Surely a case of, been down so long it looks like
up?  Not really.  Multifamily construction  is giving the housing
sector a boost. With Americans opting for renting over buying,
the apartment vacancy rate fell to a decade low of 5.2 percent
last quarter, according to Reis Inc., a commercial real-estate
research firm.  The stock market is smelling the turn, as well.
Homebuilders, along with building- and construction-product
makers, were the  best performers  in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index in the fourth quarter. The S&P  Homebuilding Index (S5HOME)  rose 46
percent compared with an 11 percent increase for the  S&P 500 .  ‘Last Shall Be First’  Homebuilder  sentiment  is improving, which is tantamount to
saying they see better sales, traffic and prospects for 2012.
The  inventory  of new homes has been whittled down from a peak of
572,000 in July 2006 to 158,000 in November, the lowest in the
50-year history of the series. And while  distressed sales  are
only keeping up with the flow of  seriously delinquent loans ,
unless the government does something stupid -- or more stupid
than what it already has done, only delaying the inevitable --
 home prices  may be reaching a level where buyers, be they
homeowners or speculators, are willing to take a flyer.  Because of its interest-rate sensitivity, housing --
together with  consumer durables  -- drives the business cycle.
The Federal Reserve lowers official rates during a recession.
Other  interest rates , including those on  mortgage loans , follow
suit. Residential real estate is quick to respond -- unless, of
course, this time is different (see  Rogoff and Reinhart ) and the
overhang from a burst-bubble debt crisis prevents it.  Consumers, who defer purchases of items such as cars,
appliances and electronics during bad times, resume their
spending when the worst is over.  Not so this time around. The current recovery has been
completely backward, driven by exports and investment, Carson
says. The  export contribution  has been “historic,” accounting
for 45 percent of GDP growth compared with a typical 10 percent
in the first nine quarters after the end of a recession. Add in
investment, and the two sectors account for the entire growth of
GDP during the period.  These “late-cycle sectors have been adding because the
world economy is being driven by  emerging markets  rather than
U.S. consumers,” he says.  The consumer seems to be coming back, having reduced his
 debt  relative to disposable income to manageable levels. Finally
the employment picture is starting to look up.  Born to Grow  Weekly  jobless claims  have been telegraphing the
improvement for a couple of months. Yet when the Bureau of Labor
Statistics first reported a 0.4 percentage-point decline to 8.6
percent in the November  unemployment rate  (later revised to 8.7
percent), the naysayers were quick to point out that the drop
was for the wrong reason: Many  unemployed workers  had stopped
looking for work and were no longer counted as part of the  labor
force .  The reason doesn’t matter. The jobless rate moves in big,
broad sweeps -- in both directions. There can be some give-back,
especially after big, single-month moves. But once a trend is
established, it usually doesn’t reverse.  This isn’t to say the economy is about to experience a
typical post-recession growth spurt. But it could be embarking
on what economists like to call a self-sustaining recovery
(“Look Ma, no hands”), even in the face of  Europe ’s debt
crisis. Recession in the European Union alone won’t derail the
recovery as U.S. exports to the region account for less than 2
percent of GDP.  Most important, an economy’s natural tendency is to grow:
one of the byproducts of the free-enterprise system. The
incentive to produce is to profit. That revenue provides the
means to consume. Unless the government throws some nasty stuff
at it in the form of higher taxes, burdensome regulations or
restrictions on personal freedom, the economy will thrive and
prosper.  Sometimes it just takes longer.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  