-- Animal Testing in Harvard’s Backyard Offering 60% Gain
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-01-13T04:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/animal-testing-in-harvard-s-backyard-offering-60-gain.html
Selling  lab rats  may be the next
best thing for buyout firms looking for a deal.  Charles River Laboratories International Inc. (CRL) , which rose
this week on speculation it may put itself up for sale, has a
free cash flow yield of 10 percent of its price, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest among publicly
traded companies in the U.S. that raise animals for experiments
or conduct clinical tests for drugmakers, the data show.  While the Obama administration is trying to get rats,
monkeys and other animals out of the drug-approval process,
William Blair & Co. says Charles River may entice private equity
firms with its unit that sells half of all the animals used in
experiments around the world. Buyout funds could take the lab
animal unit, which boosted sales in five of the past  six years ,
and a company such as Sigma-Aldrich Corp., which makes chemical
indicators in animal trials, could buy its testing division,
said  Sterne Agee  & Leach Inc.’s Greg Bolan.  Charles River  can
get $50 a share in a breakup, or a 60 percent premium, he said.  Selling lab animals “throws off a ton of cash,” which
buyout firms would want, Sterne Agee’s Bolan, a Nashville,
Tennessee-based analyst, said in a telephone interview. “If
you’re a strategic company, and you want to be in pre-clinical
in  North America , then clearly Charles River would be the
business to own. It’s dramatically undervalued.”  Amy Cianciaruso , a spokeswoman at Wilmington,
Massachusetts-based Charles River, declined to comment on
whether it is considering a sale.  Mice and Men  Founded more than 60 years ago in  Boston  in a second-floor
loft overlooking the  namesake river  that flows past  Harvard
University  and the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ,
Charles River sells rats and mice used in medical studies.  It also conducts pre-clinical trials on the animals and
counts drug makers such as Pfizer Inc. and  Roche Holding AG  as
 customers , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of Charles River gained 11 percent this week as
DealReporter, citing investment bankers that it didn’t identify,
said the company may be exploring a sale.  Before the speculation emerged, Charles River had  declined 
24 percent in the previous year as sales at its animal-testing
unit fell for three straight quarters after contractors built
too many labs and drugmakers cut back on early-stage trials,
said  Tim Evans , an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York .  “The stock has been depressed because the pre-clinical
toxicology business has been under significant pressure,” John Kreger, an analyst at William Blair in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. “It’s sort of a depressed asset.”  Breakup Value  With Charles River  generating  $3.11 a share in cash from
its operations after deducting capital expenses in the past year,
the company now has a free cash flow yield of about 10 percent,
based on its price of $31.01 yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s more than the average of about 6 percent
for three comparable companies cited by Citigroup Inc.  Covance Inc. (CVD)  of Princeton,  New Jersey , which breeds dogs,
rabbits and Rhesus monkeys for experiments and also conducts
pre-clinical tests on them for pharmaceutical companies, has a
free cash yield of 6.4 percent, the data show.  By valuing its animal breeding and pre-clinical testing
businesses separately, Charles River may be worth $50 a share to
$60 a share, according to Sterne Agee’s Bolan, who used a sum-
of-the-parts model based on estimates for free cash flow growth.  The lab animal unit, which also helps raise and breed live
specimens owned by other companies, could alone be worth $40 a
share, or about $2 billion, he said. That’s greater than Charles
River’s current market value of $1.5 billion.  Animal Testing  “The fair value of the business under a scenario in which
they’d get broken up and sold is definitely higher than where
it’s trading,” Wells Fargo’s Evans said in a telephone
interview. “You essentially allow the value” of the so-called
research models and services business to be unlocked, he said.  In a  breakup , a buyout firm seeking the cash flows of the
animal breeding unit could team up with a company such as Sigma-
Aldrich, which would add Charles River’s testing division to the
equipment it already sells for those trials, Sterne Agee said.  Sigma-Aldrich (SIAL)  said in a statement this week that it would
pay $350 million for BioReliance Holdings Inc., its first major
move into animal-testing services, according to Dan Arias, an
analyst at UBS AG in New York.  Kim Reno, a spokeswoman for St. Louis-based Sigma-Aldrich,
didn’t immediately return telephone or e-mail messages seeking
comment on whether it is interested in buying Charles River.  LBO Model  A buyout firm could also buy the entire company in a deal
worth $60 a share to gain a business with the biggest portion of
the research animal market and then sell off the testing unit,
according to William Blair. Charles River controls about 50
percent of the $1.4 billion market for so-called animal research
models worldwide, according to an estimate from Citigroup.  Still, leveraged buyout firms could be wary of paying up
for Charles River because it has $659 million in  net debt , more
relative to its market value than any of its closest rivals,
said Garen Sarafian a New York-based analyst at Citigroup.  “They’re going to look at that debt load, because they
usually lever up,” he said in a telephone interview. “In this
case, the debt would certainly be taken into consideration.”  The  National Institutes of Health  and the  Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency  also pledged as much as a combined $140
million over five years to encourage scientists to find ways of
testing drug toxicity using human cells instead of animals.  For Sterne Agee’s Bolan, demand for Charles River’s lab
animals will be strong enough to generate the money for interest
payments on any additional  debt  from an LBO, at a time when
borrowing costs are close to all-time lows.  “At the end of the day, you probably could get that
leverage down very quickly” because of its  cash flow , he said.
“You have an opportunity to go after an asset that would
instantly have 50 to 60 percent of the market, in probably one
of the most stable businesses that one could ever think of.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 