-- ANZ Plans to Cut ‘Many Hundreds’ of Jobs
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2012-01-13T05:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/anz-plans-to-cut-many-hundreds-of-jobs.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd . is preparing to cut as many as 900 jobs, according to
a union that represents bank workers, as the lender trims costs
in an economy where demand for mortgages has slumped to the
weakest pace in three decades.  “They’ve certainly confirmed it will be in the hundreds,”
Leon Carter, national secretary of the Finance Sector Union in
 Melbourne , said in a telephone interview today.  Kevin Foley , an
ANZ Bank spokesman in Sydney, said in an e-mailed statement that
“there is some belt tightening going on in response to
difficult market conditions.”  Australia ’s four biggest banks, which employ about 178,000
people, are among lenders around the world facing slower revenue
growth as borrowing falls among consumers whose confidence has
been battered by  Europe ’s debt woes and market turmoil.
Melbourne-based ANZ Bank today left unchanged its variable
mortgage interest rate, citing the “subdued state of credit
demand.”  ANZ Bank “said to us that due to cost pressures and
expectations that revenue is going to be difficult to generate
over the course of this year, they’re going to embark on a
fairly aggressive cost-saving regime,” Carter said.  Among Australia’s so-called big four lenders, ANZ Bank
employees individually delivered the least profit, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and company reports. ANZ Bank made
A$109,424 ($113,013) in net income from each employee in the
year ended September 2011. That compared with A$138,819 at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , A$185,379 at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC) , and A$116,900 at National Australia Bank Ltd., the data
show.  RBS Cuts  U.K.-based Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc yesterday said
it will sell or close its equities, mergers advisory and equity
capital markets business, eliminating 3,500 jobs. More than 400
of the bank’s Australian employees may be affected, the
Australian Financial Review said today.  Carter said some ANZ Bank staff reductions “will be jobs
that disappear, others will be the continuation of their
offshoring of Australian jobs.” He said most cuts, which may
total between 500 and 900, will be made in the first half of the
year.  ANZ Bank’s Foley said “we are still working through the
detail, though impacts to staff in customer-facing roles will be
minimal.”  The Australian Financial Review first reported that ANZ
Bank staff received an e-mail late yesterday from Philip Chronican, head of the bank’s Australian division, identifying
the need for redundancies.  Rates on Hold  Chronican said in a separate statement today that the
lender decided it was “prudent” to keep the rates it charges
customers for mortgages and small company loans unchanged.  The interest rate announcement is the first time the bank
instituted its policy announced Dec. 8 of declaring decisions on
 mortgage rates  on the second Friday of every month. The bank is
seeking to decouple itself from the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s
interest-rate cycle, in which policy makers meet on the first
Tuesday of every month except January.  ANZ Bank  shares  climbed 0.5 percent in Sydney trading, the
fifth straight advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  