-- Aon to Move Headquarters to London From Chicago to be Near Lloyd’s Market
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-01-13T21:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/aon-to-move-headquarters-to-london-from-chicago-to-be-near-lloyd-s-market.html
Aon Corp. (AON) , the world’s largest
insurance broker, will move its corporate headquarters to  London 
from Chicago to give the firm better access to emerging
economies and the Lloyd’s of London insurance market.  The move won’t trigger any job losses in Chicago, which
will remain the firm’s Americas headquarters, the broker said
today in a statement. The firm plans to add 1,000 jobs across
the U.S. this year, it added.  Aon, which also offers clients human resources consulting
services, will use its proximity to Lloyd’s of London to boost
growth in  emerging markets  such as  Asia  and  Latin America  as the
world’s oldest insurance market has licenses to operate in more
than 75 countries. Rival broker  Willis Group Holdings Inc. (WSH)  has
its corporate head office in London and is incorporated in
Dublin for tax purposes.  “The move provides greater access to emerging markets and
takes better advantage of the strategic proximity to Lloyd’s and
the London market as one of the key international hubs of
insurance and risk brokerage,” Aon said in the statement.  About 20 employees including Chief Executive Officer Greg Case will move to the broker’s existing London offices in the
city’s financial district known as the Square Mile, David Prosperi, an Aon spokesman, said by telephone. The firm will
eventually move to a nearby skyscraper known as the
Cheesegrater, due to be completed in 2014, he said.  Aon, which employs 59,000 people including 6,000 in the
U.K., said the move will also provide better capital allocation
and give it financial flexibility. The move is subject to
shareholder approval, Aon said.  The move will also allow the broker to “drive significant
value to shareholders, under a U.K. territorial tax system,”
partly through a change in the geographic distribution of
income, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission today.  The broker dropped less than 1 percent to $46.28 a share at
4 p.m. in  New York , valuing the company at about $15 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  