-- Apple Opens Suppliers’ Doors to Labor Group After Foxconn Worker Suicides
-- B y   S t a n l e y   J a m e s   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-01-13T21:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/apple-opens-suppliers-doors-to-labor-group-after-foxconn-worker-suicides.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  agreed to let outside
monitors into factories of partners, such as  Foxconn Technology
Group (2317) , and listed  suppliers  for the first time to counter
criticism about conditions of workers making its gadgets.  The iPhone maker becomes the first technology company to
join the  Fair Labor Association . The Washington-based FLA was
set up in 1999 to monitor workplace environments globally in an
initiative by former U.S. President  Bill Clinton , and its
participants include  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and  Nestle SA. (NESN)  Apple also
released its  annual suppliers’ audit  yesterday.  Apple’s affiliation with the FLA highlights the risk to
multinational companies’ brands due to difficulties in policing
suppliers as they outsource manufacturing to cut costs. Nike
became a founding member of the association after reports of low
pay, abuses and poor conditions at sportswear factories in  Asia 
sparked boycotts and protests in the 1990s.  “Most big corporations have their ‘Nike moment’ at some
stage -- when they realize the difficulties of maintaining their
standards, particularly in an increasingly global environment,”
FLA President Auret van Heerden said. “The problem with the
supply chain is that it’s a moving target.”  The move by Cupertino, California-based Apple will
intensify scrutiny of its  suppliers , including Seoul-based
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Inchon, South Korea-based  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  The FLA makes unannounced checks on about 5
percent of its members’ supply chains each year, according to
Van Heerden.  Underage Labor  Apple released a list of 156 companies that represent 97
percent of procurement costs, along with its annual report on
factories where the iPhone, iPad and other products are made.  In the course of the 229 audits, Apple said it discovered
several violations, including instances of underage labor at
five facilities. Apple said it required the suppliers to support
the young workers to return to school and to improve their
management systems to add age-verification procedures. Apple
also said it found instances of involuntary labor and stopped
working with one of suppliers involved.  Apple also discovered at least 90 factories with records
showing workers were exceeding its maximum of 60 hours a week
and at least one day of rest per seven days of work. The company
found violations of anti-discrimination rules for workers who
were pregnant or had hepatitis B. Apple said it made the
suppliers end the discriminatory screenings.  Van Heerden, of the FLA, said growing scrutiny of global
companies by investors and consumers means they are more likely
to insist suppliers introduce best practices in countries where
governments are unable or unwilling to do so.  “If you’re a 16-year-old girl in a developing country,
your best chance of enjoying proper rights is if you get to work
at a multinational,” he said. “The power of their contract is
more powerful than the power of law.”  Foxconn Scrutiny  Apple’s biggest supplier,  Taiwan ’s Foxconn, has been a
subject of scrutiny after at least 12 workers have committed
suicide at its plants in China. Three died last year and more
than 70 were hurt in blasts at two iPad facilities, one of which
was also owned by Foxconn. In response to pressure from Apple
and the media, Foxconn more than doubled wages in 2010 for some
workers in China and employed counselors.  Apple will now subject itself and its suppliers to the
FLA’s membership criteria, including submitting to audits and
enforcing a code of conduct based on standards approved by the
 United Nations ’  International Labor Organization .  Taipei-based  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , Foxconn’s
flagship listed unit, gets 22 percent of its revenue from Apple,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Pegatron Corp. (4938)  earns 16 percent
of sales from the U.S. company.  Hong Kong Demonstrations  Efforts to improve conditions have failed to appease some
activists and labor groups. Demonstrators at the September
opening of Apple’s flagship store in Hong Kong called on the
company to protect workers’ rights. China Labor Watch last month
said the explosion at Foxconn’s plant in May and another on Dec.
17 at a factory owned by Taipei-based Pegatron were caused by
ignition of aluminum dust produced by polishing iPad cases.  Independent monitoring isn’t the panacea to problems in
 China ’s factories, said  Geoffrey Crothall , communications
director of workers-rights group China Labour Bulletin.  “The problem isn’t whether or not they do audits, but
whether workers are treated in a reasonable manner,” he said.
“What the workers need is an effective voice in the
workplace.”  Brand Value  Apple is more vulnerable than most to damage to its
reputation, according to an annual ranking compiled by
 Interbrand . The brand was valued at $33.5 billion last year, the
eighth-highest in the world and up from 17th place in 2010,
according to the index.  The company’s affiliation to the FLA marks a further
broadening of oversight for the agency. The association was
formed in 1999, primarily by the apparel industry, after Clinton
challenged companies and pressure groups to address rising
complaints about standards at factories operating overseas,
according to its website.  Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike, the world’s largest
sportswear maker, was a founding member.  Adidas Group (ADS) ,  Hennes &
Mauritz AB  and Juicy Couture owner  Liz Claiborne Inc. (LIZ)  are among
33 participating companies.  Basel, Switzerland-based Syngenta AG, the world’s largest
maker of agricultural chemicals, sought the FLA’s help in 2004
to address concerns over child labor and working conditions on
Indian cottonseed farms. Nestle, based in Vevey,  Switzerland , in
November commissioned the agency to assess the use of child
labor and conditions at West African producers of cocoa used in
its products such as KitKat and Quality Street candies.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said this week that a protest on Jan. 4 by
150 workers at a Foxconn factory in southern China wasn’t
related to working conditions and the majority of employees who
took part had returned to work. Some had threatened to jump from
the roof of a factory building, the  Daily Telegraph  reported,
citing an unidentified person said to have participated in the
action.  Forty-five of the 150 workers, who were protesting against
a plan to transfer them to another business unit, resigned,
according to a Foxconn statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stanley James in  Hong Kong  at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  