-- Apple Is Said to Ready IPad 3 With Sharper Screen, LTE Access
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n ,   P e t e r   B u r r o w s   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-01-14T00:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/apple-said-to-prepare-march-ipad-3-debut-with-sharper-screen-faster-chip.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s next iPad, expected to
go on sale in March, will sport a high-definition screen, run a
faster processor and work with next-generation wireless
networks, according to three people familiar with the product.  The company’s  manufacturing partners  in  Asia  started
ramping up production of the iPad 3 this month and plan to reach
full volumes by February, said one of the people, who asked not
to be named because the details aren’t public. The tablet will
use a quad-core chip, an enhancement that lets users jump more
quickly between applications, two of the people said.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  is counting on the new
model to ward off mounting competition in a market that Apple
pioneered two years ago. After its debut in 2010, the iPad
emerged as the company’s second-biggest source of revenue --
after the iPhone -- and inspired rival products from  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  and  Samsung (005930)  Electronics Co. Apple has sold more than 40
million iPads, generating at least $25.3 billion in sales.  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Apple, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumor and speculation.  The Cupertino, California-based company has been working on
making the iPad compatible with a wireless standard called long-
term evolution, or LTE, said one of the people. Carriers such as
 Verizon Wireless (VZ)  and  ATT Inc. (T)  are rolling out LTE networks to
give users faster access to data.  LTE Networks  Smartphone makers, including Samsung,  Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. (MMI)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOKIA) , have already introduced smartphones
that work on the faster networks. Apple is bringing LTE to the
iPad before the iPhone because the tablet has a bigger battery
and can better support the power requirements of the newer
technology, said one of the people.  The new display is capable of greater resolution than the
current iPad, with more pixels on its screen than some high-
definition televisions, the person said. The pixels are small
enough to make the images look like printed material, according
to the person. Videos begin playing almost instantly because of
the additional graphics processing, the person said.  The new iPad is being assembled by Apple’s main
manufacturing partner, Foxconn Technology Group. Like most
technology companies, Apple contracts with companies in Asia for
labor to assemble its devices. Foxconn, which also builds the
iPhone and other Apple products, gets about 22 percent of its
sales from Apple, according to  supply-chain data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Boosting Production  Mass production began at the start of this month, with
factories running 24 hours a day in  China , one of the people
said. Manufacturing will halt over China’s Lunar New Year
holiday this month and then ramp back up to a peak in February,
the person said.  The introduction of the new iPad will be Apple’s first
major hardware release since the death of company co-founder
 Steve Jobs  in October. The company is hosting an education event
focused on electronic textbooks next week that won’t include any
hardware introductions, said a person familiar with the matter.  Apple, the world’s largest technology company by market
value, was little changed yesterday in U.S. trading at $419.81.
The stock rose 26 percent in 2011, marking its third straight
year of gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  