-- Apple Lists Part Suppliers for First Time, Discloses Violations
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-01-14T00:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/apple-lists-suppliers-for-first-time-discloses-labor-violations.html
Apple Inc. (APPL) , responding to criticism
of working conditions at companies that make parts for its
products, listed its suppliers for the first time and disclosed
instances of rights violations by some manufacturers.  An  annual  audit released yesterday pointed to involuntary
labor at 17 factories and underage labor at five, according to
the company’s supplier responsibility report. Apple, based in
Cupertino,  California , also  published  the names of 156 companies
that account for 97 percent of the company’s procurement
expenditures.  Apple, which began releasing the report in 2007, has faced
scrutiny of labor practices at such manufacturers as  Foxconn
Technology Group. (2317)  Environmental and human rights groups have
criticized the company for the working conditions and use of
unsafe materials by suppliers contracted to build the iPhone,
iPad, iPod and Mac.  “We insist that our manufacturing partners follow Apple’s
strict code of conduct,” Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook 
wrote yesterday in an e-mail to employees. “These audits make
sure that working conditions are safe and just, and if a
manufacturer won’t live up to our standards, we stop working
with them.”  Apple’s list of suppliers includes such companies as
 Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , Samsung Electronics Co.,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM)   One component maker not named,  OmniVision Technologies
Inc. (OVTI) , fell 3.2 percent in U.S. trading yesterday.  Apple’s audit examined all levels of Apple’s supply chain,
from component suppliers to final assembly.  Violations  In 229 audits, Apple discovered violations, including
instances of underage labor; long working hours; unfair
compensation; unsafe working conditions; and practices that
cause harm to the environment.  In the case of underage workers, Apple said it required the
suppliers to support the young peoples’ return to school and to
improve management systems to add age-verification procedures.
Apple said it ceased working with one repeat offender of its
involuntary labor standards.  Apple also discovered 93 factories where records indicated
more than half of workers exceeded a limit of 60 hours of work a
week. Apple said it required suppliers to change work shifts and
hired a consultant to help factories avoid long work hours.  Also cited by Apple were 42 facilities engaged in such
compensation-related violations as delayed payment of wages, 67
that deducted pay as a punishment tool, 68 facilities that
didn’t provide adequate benefits and 108 that didn’t pay proper
overtime wages.  Discrimination  The reports coincided with an announcement that Apple
agreed to let outside monitors into factories of its partners.
Apple became the first technology company to join the Fair Labor
Association, a Washington-based group set up in 1999 to monitor
workplace environments globally in an initiative by former U.S.
President  Bill Clinton . Its participants include  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and
Nestle SA.  Apple also said it found instances of involuntary labor,
mainly the result of suppliers that subcontract with labor
agencies to hire workers from countries including the
Philippines, Thailand,  Indonesia  and Vietnam.  The company cited discrimination violations, including 18
facilities that screened job candidates or current workers for
hepatitis B and 24 facilities that conducted pregnancy tests.  “We classified these practices as discrimination -- even
if permissible under local laws,” Apple said. “At our
direction, the suppliers have stopped discriminatory screenings
for medical conditions or pregnancy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  