-- U.S. Marines Interviewed by NCIS as Video Raises Tensions With Afghanistan
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-01-13T22:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/marines-face-potential-prosecution-for-desecrating-afghan-corpses-in-video.html
The Naval Criminal Investigative
Service said it has interviewed the four U.S. Marines seen
urinating on Afghan corpses in a video that spread globally and
complicated U.S. talks with the Taliban.  Responding to a case that drew international condemnation,
NCIS opened its probe on Jan. 11, “immediately after learning
of the video’s existence,” Maryann Cummings, a spokeswoman,
said yesterday in a written statement.  The incident raised tensions with Afghan leaders at a time
when the U.S. is conducting talks with the Taliban. The video
appears to show four Marines urinating on three Afghan corpses
that are lying on the ground. An American voice can be heard
saying, “Have a great day, buddy,” while another says, “He
likes his shower.”  The men, whose names weren’t released, were part of a
sniper unit from Camp Lejeune,  North Carolina , and served in
Afghanistan last year from March to September, according to a
Marine official who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss
the internal investigation. Two of the Marines have since left
the unit, the official said.  “At this point, NCIS has identified and talked to the four
Marines in the video,” all of whom are now in the U.S.,
Cummings said. The investigators are trying to determine who
created and posted the video, while they conduct “computer
forensic techniques on the video itself,” she said.  ‘Appropriate Dignity’  The deputy commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan issued
an order to all coalition forces in the country to treat dead
insurgents with “appropriate dignity and respect,” according
to a copy of the order released yesterday and signed by Army
Lieutenant General Curtis Scaparrotti.  The desecration of the dead violates the law of armed
conflict “and can cause serious damage to relations with the
Afghan government,” he said in the order.  Any mistreatment of the dead “will be promptly reported,
fully investigated, and the appropriate actions taken,” he
said.  The video comes as a blow to a Marine Corps that prides
itself on a reputation for rectitude, said Jack Hoban, who was a
Marine officer and now teaches ethics courses to Marines.  “We’re all universally disgusted by it and ashamed,”
Hoban, the president of Resolution Group International LLC of
Spring Lake,  New Jersey , said in an interview.  While training teaches Marines to respect all life,
“people under stress sometimes do things that are counter to
their training and their ethics, particularly when they’re
young,” he said.  ‘Utterly Deplorable’  U.S. officials condemned the incident and sought to repair
the damage it may cause.  “It is absolutely inconsistent with American values, with
the standards of behavior that we expect from our military
personnel,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in an
appearance at the State Department Jan. 12.  The same day, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  called the
video “utterly deplorable” and spoke to Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  to relay his concern.  An incident that may have gone almost unnoticed in earlier
wars can become an international flash point in a digital age,
when videos spread across the Internet within hours, said Clay Shirky, who teaches social media in the Interactive
Telecommunications Program at  New York University .  Shirky said the Marines probably made the video to show it
to a few friends, never thinking that it would be distributed
widely.  “This is the invisible audience problem,” Shirky said in
an interview. “The minute it’s outside the initial circle of
trust, you’ve lost control of it. Marines are not used to the
idea that a video that’s only in the hands of other Marines may
get out in the world.”  Investigation Ordered  General James Amos, the Marine Corps commandant, requested
the investigation by the NCIS, along with an internal probe by a
Marine general officer and senior attorney.  “Rest assured that the institution of the Marine Corps
will not rest until the allegations and the events surrounding
them have been resolved,” Amos said in a written statement.  Karzai’s press office urged the U.S. military in a
statement to apply “the most severe punishment” if Marines are
found to have desecrated bodies.  Even as the investigation proceeded, both U.S. officials
and the Taliban said they intend to continue talks as planned.  The Taliban said on Jan. 3 that it planned to open an
office in Qatar for peace talks with the U.S. and its allies,
marking the militant group’s first public step toward
negotiations to end the decade-long war in  Afghanistan . While a
Taliban spokesman said the video won’t disrupt plans for
negotiations, he portrayed it as typical American behavior.  ‘Bigger Crimes’  “This video will not affect our negotiation in the
future,”  Zabihullah Mujahed , the spokesman, said in a phone
interview from an undisclosed location. “Americans have always
committed bigger crimes in which they dishonored Taliban and
civilians. We’ve seen this video and we consider this the most
disrespectful, inhuman and immoral act.”  The negotiations will remain focused on prisoner exchanges,
he said. In a Jan. 12 statement, the Taliban said the talks
don’t “mean a surrender from jihad” or acceptance of the
Afghan constitution.  The U.S. has said it will hand over security
responsibilities to the Afghan government in 2014.  The potential for damage to the U.S.’s standing in
Afghanistan was reflected in comments from an Afghan tribal
elder.  “Both Americans and Taliban are not human,” Zargul Nazari
said in a telephone interview from Kabul. “Taliban cut our
people’s hands and nose, and Americans urinate on their dead
bodies. Do you think peace can come through urinating on the
dead bodies?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  