-- Asia Stocks in Longest Weekly Win Streak in Year on Europe, U.S.
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-01-13T23:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/asian-stocks-rise-for-fourth-week-on-u-s-recovery-progress-in-europe.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a fourth week,
the longest such streak in a year, as lower Italian and Spanish
bond yields and signs of U.S. economic recovery spurred optimism
that global demand will weather  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that gets about 80 percent
of sales in Europe, jumped 13 percent this week in  Hong Kong .
 Komatsu (6301) , a Japanese construction machinery maker that counts
 China  as its fastest-growing market, gained 8.4 percent after
its inflation cooled in the world’s second-largest economy. BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s No. 1 mining company by market value,
rose 3.9 percent after metal prices had the biggest weekly
advance since Dec. 2.  Once concern about Europe’s debt crisis is “lifted at
least in the short-term, we should see some good performance in
Asian equity markets,” said Diane Lin, a fund manager with
Sydney-based fund Pengana Capital Ltd., which manages about $1.1
billion in global assets. ECB policy makers “have stabilized
the whole situation. There’s a lot of bonds to be issued by
European governments in the short-term. It is important for them
to be able to refinance.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 2.2 percent to 116.89 this
week, rising for a fourth week to the highest level since Dec. 8
after Spanish two-year rates fell to the least since March as
the nation raised 9.98 billion euros ($12.66 billion) from a
note auction, twice the maximum target. Italy’s two-year yields
fell to the lowest since September.  “The ECB’s long-term refinancing operations looks
reasonably successful with regard to the Spanish and Italian
bond auctions,” Lim Say Boon, chief investment officer at DBS
Private Bank, said on Bloomberg Television. “That’s keeping the
appetite for risk up for the time being.”  Exporters Climb  Exporters to Europe gained in Asian trading this week.
Esprit, the stock that fell the most in the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  last
year, soared 13 percent to HK$11.68.  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175) , a unit of the Chinese
automaker that owns Volvo Cars, jumped 17 percent to HK$2.03 in
Hong Kong.  Kyocera Corp. (6971) , a Japanese electronics maker that gets
almost 20 percent of its sales in Europe, added 1.3 percent to
6,220 yen in  Tokyo .  In the U.S., Labor Department figures Jan. 6 showed that
payroll growth in the country beat forecasts in December and the
 unemployment rate  dropped to the lowest level in almost three
years. The  Federal Reserve  this week said in its Beige Book
business survey the U.S. economic expansion improved last month
across most of the country.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 3.8 percent this week,
snapping a nine-week drop, as China’s inflation cooled for the
fifth straight month in December, giving the government more
room to ease monetary policy. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
climbed 3.3 percent, rising for a second week.  China Inflation  Exporters to China gained after the National Bureau of
Statistics said in Beijing that consumer prices rose 4.1 percent
in December from a year earlier, down from 4.2 percent the month
before.  Komatsu,  Japan ’s biggest maker of construction equipment,
jumped 8.4 percent to 1,979 yen this week. Hitachi Construction
Machinery Co., which counts China as its biggest market, rallied
7.2 percent to 1,371 yen.  The machinery makers also got a boost after a Japan’s
industry group said the nation’s machine tool orders rose 17.4
percent in December from a year earlier.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 1.3 percent this
week. Tokyo Electric Power Co. gained the most in the benchmark
this week, surging 21 percent to 209 yen on reports the
government plans a capital injection that would help the company
avoid bankruptcy.  Olympus Lifeline  Olympus Corp. (7733)  also helped boost the gauge by surging 17
percent to 1,236 yen this week on optimism the Japanese camera
maker will survive a delisting threat. Olympus will probably be
fined by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, rather than expelled from the
bourse, the Nikkei newspaper reported.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific gauge declined 17 percent last year
as energy, financial and raw material companies declined amid
Europe’s worsening debt crisis, U.S. lawmakers’ bickering over
how to reduce that country’s deficit and China’s efforts to curb
inflation. The decline dragged shares in the measure to 12 times
estimated earnings, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The  London Metal Exchange Index (LMEX)  of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum jumped 5.5
percent this week to the highest level since Oct. 28, boosting
Australian shares. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 advanced 2.1 percent
this week.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company by
market value, gained 3.9 percent to A$36.60 this week in Sydney.
Rio Tinto Group, the world’s No. 3 miner by value, climbed 4.3
percent to A$65.21.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the nation’s
biggest producer of the light metal, soared 9.9 percent to
HK$3.68 in Hong Kong.  -- Editors: Nick Gentle, Paul Tighe  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  