-- Stocks, Euro, Oil Fall on Reports of ‘Imminent’ S&P Downgrades in Europe
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-01-13T21:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/asian-stocks-won-advance-on-optimism-europe-crisis-easing-oil-rebounds.html
Stocks fell, trimming a weekly gain,
and the euro slid as news that  Standard & Poor’s  was downgrading
the debt of several European nations swirled through markets.
U.S. Treasuries rose. German and Dutch yields touched record
lows on reports their ratings will be spared.  The S&P 500 declined 0.5 percent to close at 1,289.09 at 4
p.m. in New York after slumping as much as 1.4 percent in the
morning. The index pared its  weekly  gain to 0.9 percent. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  slipped 48.96 points to 12,422.06. The
euro slumped 1.1 percent to $1.2676, near a 16-month low. Gains
in Treasuries sent the 10-year note’s yield down five basis
points to 1.87 percent, and Spanish, French and Belgian bonds
dropped.  Germany ’s 30-year yield lost as much as 10 basis points
to 2.33 percent.  The ratings cuts, announced after financial markets closed,
included  France , Italy,  Portugal  and  Spain , while Germany was
affirmed at AAA. Financial companies led losses in U.S. stocks
after JPMorgan Chase & Co. reported a drop in profit, sending
shares of the largest U.S. bank by assets down 2.5 percent.
Talks with holders of Greek bonds over proposed writedowns of
the debt were paused.  “The cloud of  Europe  has weighed on investors’
sentiment,”  Keith Wirtz , who oversees $14.6 billion as chief
investment officer at Fifth Third Asset Management in
Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview. “These downgrading
actions in Europe were expected down the road, not right now.”  France was cut to AA+ and the rating has a negative
outlook, S&P said in a statement. Cyprus,  Italy , Portugal, and
Spain were cut by two notches, S&P said. The long-term ratings
on  Austria , Malta, Slovakia, and Slovenia were cut one notch.
Belgium,  Estonia , Finland, Ireland, Luxembourg and the
Netherlands also had their ratings affirmed by S&P.  Financial Shares Slump  Bank of America Corp.  and Citigroup Inc. also paced losses
in banks, dropping more than 2.6 percent. Declines in trading
revenue and investment banking fees sent JPMorgan’s fourth-
quarter profit down 23 percent to $3.73 billion, or 90 cents a
share, matching the average estimate of 90 cents by 28 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Wells Fargo & Co ., Citigroup and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
are due to release results next week. Earnings at  S&P 500 
companies are projected to have increased 4.6 percent in the
last quarter of 2011, the slowest growth in more than two years,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Profits
are forecast to have dropped 0.8 percent at financial companies.  Intel Corp ., Hewlett-Packard Co. and United Technologies
Corp. slipped at least 1.5 percent as gauges of  technology  and
industrial companies fell 0.7 percent each.  The S&P 500 had risen for four straight days, bringing  its
2012 advance to 3 percent before today.  Confidence, Commodities  U.S. equities remained lower after today confidence among
U.S. consumers rose more than forecast in January to the highest
level in eight months, a sign household spending may hold up as
the new year begins. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of confidence rose to 74 from 69.9 at the end
of December, topping the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey for 71.5.  Coffee, soybeans and cocoa fell more than 2 percent to help
lead declines in commodities. Crude for February delivery
slipped 0.4 percent to settle at $98.70 a barrel, a three-week
low, after two EU officials said an embargo on Iranian crude
imports may be postponed for six months.  Among  European stocks , Vodafone Group Plc led losses,
falling to a three-week low. Invensys Plc slumped 19 percent
after revealing 60 million pounds ($92 million) in additional
costs. Commerzbank AG rose 3.4 after German newspaper
Handelsblatt reported that the lender will raise its capital
without seeking government aid.  European Stocks  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed down 0.1 percent after
 rising earlier  following a report the European Banking Authority
will postpone stress tests, while borrowing costs fell at an
Italian debt auction. Italy sold 3 billion euros ($3.8 billion)
of bonds maturing in 2014 to yield 4.83 percent, compared with
5.62 percent at the previous auction.  Italian 10-year yields increased one basis point to 6.64
percent, reversing an earlier 18 basis point decrease and
climbing eight basis points to 4.88 percentage points above
benchmark German bunds. The spread fell yesterday to the lowest
since Dec. 20.  Spanish 10-year yields increased nine basis points, Belgian
rates increased 10 basis points and French yields added four
basis points to 3.08 percent. Dutch 10-year bonds rose, pushing
the yield on the securities down to a record-low 2.06 percent.  ‘Paused for Reflection’  The group representing  Greece ’s bank creditors said talks
with the government have “paused for reflection” after the
discussions failed to produce a “constructive consolidated
response by all parties.” The Institute of International
Finance said it wants Greece to “re-engage constructively with
the private sector” in an e- mailed statement.  A benchmark gauge of U.S. company credit risk rose from
almost the lowest level in more than two months on concern
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will slow the global economic
recovery. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
advanced 1.1 basis points to a mid-price of 115.79 basis points.  Companies from SABMiller Plc of  London  to  Macy’s Inc. (M)  got
corporate bond sales off to a record start in 2012, with
issuance climbing 16 percent from the same period last year to
$174.9 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Repsol
YPF SA, Spain’s largest oil company, sold the first corporate
bonds from the euro-region’s periphery in more than a month
yesterday, while  Rabobank Nederland , the highest-rated privately
owned bank, led issuance of senior, unsecured bank debt.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index was little changed, capping
a 2.8 percent weekly advance. The Shanghai Composite Index
slipped 1.3 percent today as speculation of monetary easing in
 China  waned. The index increased 3.8 percent in the week,
halting a nine-week slump.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  