-- AT&T Criticizes FCC Bid to Keep Power in Airwaves Auction
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-01-13T19:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/at-t-says-it-s-troubled-by-fcc-bid-to-control-airwaves-auction.html
AT&T Inc.’s top Washington executive
said he’s “troubled” that Federal Communications Commission
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  wants his agency to keep its power
to set terms for auctions to free airwaves for smartphones.  Genachowski’s stance, outlined in a Jan. 11 speech, may
risk killing legislation to sell rights to unused television
airwaves, said  Jim Cicconi , AT&T’s senior executive vice
president-external affairs, on  a company blog  today.  Congressional leaders aim to set rules this year for the TV
airwaves auctions proposed by the Obama administration. The
sales are supported by AT&T and its larger rival  Verizon
Wireless , which seek wireless spectrum to meet increased demand
from smartphones and tablet computers.  “The FCC should be a neutral arbiter,” Cicconi said. “It
should not be empowered by Congress to advantage some companies
and disadvantage others.”  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier, and Verizon
were the biggest winners in a 2008 auction of airwaves suitable
for smartphone use, spending a combined $16 billion in an
auction run by the FCC. In 2010, the companies objected after
the agency restricted their ability to lease airwaves from a
company that is now  Philip Falcone ’s proposed LightSquared
wireless service.  ‘Micromanage’ Auctions  Genachowski said that proposals before Congress would bar
the FCC from allocating airwaves to some innovative uses, and
prevent the agency from exercising its traditional prerogative
to set terms for auction participation.  “It would not be wise to prejudge or micromanage FCC
auction design,” Genachowski, a Democrat, said in  a speech  at
this week’s  Consumer Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas .  Cicconi said that AT&T welcomes FCC support for auctions.  “We are troubled, though, that the chairman and some of
his staff are now saying that the FCC, and not the United States
Congress, should have full power to impose conditions, and to
decide which companies are allowed to participate,” Cicconi
said.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, didn’t immediately comment.  Representative  Fred Upton , the Michigan Republican who is
chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee that oversees the
FCC, said in an e-mailed statement that the agency has “the
flexibility it needs” to design auction rules.  “It sounds like we have a federal agency more concerned
about preserving its own power than offering serious
improvements as we prepare to finalize this legislation,” Upton
said.  Sprint’s Concern  Sprint Nextel Corp., the third-largest U.S. wireless
carrier, said in an e-mailed statement that FCC auctions since
1994 have raised more than $60 billion and “built a solid
foundation for wireless competition.”  “Tampering with the FCC’s auction authority risks
significant damage to the wireless industry -- a key driver of
America’s innovation economy,” Larry Krevor, Sprint’s vice
president of government affairs, said in the statement.  Steven Berry, president of the Washington-based Rural
Cellular Association that represents smaller wireless carriers,
said in an e-mailed statement that AT&T was seeking “to ensure
that only the largest carriers will be able to successfully
participate on spectrum, to the detriment of competitors and
taxpayers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  