-- Attorneys General Discuss Mortgage Probes as Bank Talks Drag On
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-01-13T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/attorneys-general-discuss-mortgage-probes-as-bank-talks-drag-on.html
About a dozen state  attorneys
general  met this week to discuss their mortgage investigations
and how they might work together as settlement talks with banks
over foreclosures drag on, three people familiar with the matter
said.  The group, which met in Washington, included New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , California’s Kamala Harris
and  Martha Coakley  of Massachusetts, according to two of the
people, who declined to be named because they weren’t authorized
to speak about the meeting. Schneiderman, Harris and Coakley are
each conducting separate investigations of bank practices.  The meeting occurred as state and federal officials are
negotiating a settlement with the five largest mortgage
servicers, including  Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. , that would set requirements for conducting foreclosures and
provide relief to homeowners.  Schneiderman, Harris and Coakley, along with  Nevada 
Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto and Delaware’s  Beau Biden , have raised concerns about any deal that protects banks
from future investigations. Masto and Biden also attended the
Jan. 10 meeting, according to one of the people. The five states
aren’t among those negotiating directly with the banks.  “A number of likeminded AGs met together to discuss
current and ongoing investigations into the mortgage finance and
foreclosure industries in addition to prospective or future
investigations that may be fruitful,” Delaware Deputy Attorney
General Ian McConnel said in a phone interview. He declined to
comment further.  Massachusetts Lawsuit  Harris and Masto announced in December they were
collaborating in their mortgage and foreclosure investigations.
Schneiderman and Biden are also cooperating. In December,
Coakley sued Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America,
New York-based JPMorgan,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co.  and
 Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , accusing them of conducting unlawful
foreclosures and deceiving homeowners.  At the meeting in Washington, the attorneys general talked
about their own investigations and litigation as well as
different enforcement strategies and options, one of the people
said. They talked about the Massachusetts case, Delaware’s
lawsuit against Mortgage Electronic Registrations Systems Inc.
and Nevada’s lawsuit against  Bank of America , according to the
person.  The officials also discussed their concerns about the terms
of the possible foreclosure settlement with the banks and their
frustrations about the lack of information they’re getting about
the negotiations, said one of the other people.  ‘Inadequate’ Proposal  Harris in September called a proposed settlement with the
banks “inadequate” and said  California  was being asked “to
excuse conduct that has not been adequately investigated.”  One person familiar with the matter said more such meetings
among attorneys general will probably be held.  Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller  is leading talks for the
states. Geoff Greenwood, his spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement that Miller and other representatives of the
negotiating team “encourage input from their colleagues.”  “Through frequent conference calls, they have kept state
attorneys general apprised of developments and have received
helpful feedback and constructive input,” Greenwood said.
“They look forward to continuing to working with their
colleagues as they work hard toward reaching a solid settlement
agreement.”  Smaller Servicers  Over the weekend, the  Justice Department  contacted four
smaller mortgage servicers, including  U.S. Bancorp (USB) ,  PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  and HSBC Finance Corp., with the
goal of including them in any future settlement agreement. The
overture was a first step meant to get reaction from the smaller
banks.  Bank lawyers and regulators with knowledge of that effort
said the smaller institutions remain reluctant to sign on to any
one-size-fits-all deal in part because they don’t have the same
legal exposure as their bigger competitors. The lawyers and
regulators didn’t want to be identified because the talks are
private.  The lawyers also said the smaller servicers have no
incentive to endorse any agreement that hasn’t been completed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York 
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  