-- Australian, New Zealand Dollars Weaken Amid Europe-Downgrade Speculation
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-01-13T18:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/aussie-new-zealand-dollars-weaken-versus-majors-on-u-s-growth-concern.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
currencies fell against the  U.S. dollar  as speculation that
Standard & Poor’s will downgrade several euro-area nations
sapped appetite for riskier assets.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, declined for a
second day as global stock markets tumbled after reports France
will be among the nations losing its AAA rating as soon as
today. The Aussie dropped the most in more than a week.  “The risks to the European economy and to the broader
global economy are still to the downside,” said  Joseph Capurso ,
a currency strategist in Sydney at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia. “That suggests that there’s a cap on commodity
prices and commodity currencies like the Aussie and kiwi.”  Australia ’s dollar depreciated 0.5 percent to $1.0277 at
1:45 p.m. New York time. It fell as much as 1 percent, the most
on an intraday basis since Jan. 5. The Aussie declined 0.3
percent to 79.05 yen.  New Zealand’s currency declined 0.3 percent to 79.14 U.S.
cents. It was little changed at 60.90 yen.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB  Index (CRY)  of raw materials
slid 0.8 percent. The MSCI World  Index (CRY)  of stocks fell 0.9
percent, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 1.1 percent.  France is among several euro-area countries facing
downgrades by S&P in the review, a European government official
said on condition of anonymity because the announcement had yet
to be made. Austria will probably lose its AAA rating on concern
about bad debts at the country’s banks, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Germany , Europe’s biggest economy, will retain its AAA
rating in a review of euro-area countries’ credit grades by S&P,
a European government official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net 
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  