-- Austria Loses AAA Rating at S&P on Hungary Banks, Italy Links
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-01-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/austria-said-to-lose-aaa-rating-at-s-p.html
Austria lost its AAA rating at
 Standard & Poor’s  because of its links to neighbors  Italy , its
second-biggest trading partner, and  Hungary , where the Alpine
country’s banks are the biggest lenders.  S&P cut Austria’s long-term debt rating one level to AA+
with a negative outlook, the ratings company said in a statement
yesterday. It also lowered  France ’s AAA rating and that of seven
other nations. Germany, the Netherlands,  Finland  and Luxembourg
kept the highest debt rating.  “In our view, Austrian banks’ balance sheets could suffer
from negative developments in major trading and outward direct
investment partners -- such as Italy and Hungary,” S&P said in
the statement. “In this instance, the banks could require
additional government support. Furthermore, if economic growth
is much weaker than we expect, this could undermine the
government’s attempts to consolidate its budgets,” it said.  Austria  has seen its financing cost rise since September as
concerns mounted that its debt and deficit could rise should it
be forced to pump more money into its banking sector because of
rising losses in Hungary and other eastern European countries.  The risk that economic weakness in Italy, its second-
biggest  export  customer after Germany, could hit growth added to
those concerns. While the government started talks about
additional spending cuts and tax hikes and took steps to limit
the banks’ risk, it failed to establish a debt brake in the
constitution.  ‘Incomprehensible’ Solo  Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann and Vice Chancellor
Michael Spindelegger said in a joint statement that S&P’s
measure is an “incomprehensible” solo and reiterated that the
budget talks will be finished by the end of February.  S&P said it saw a one-in-three chance that it could lower
Ausria’s rating again in this year or in 2013, adding that a
further cut would happen if the country’s debt rose above 80
percent of gross domestic product. It stood at  71.6 percent  at
the end of September, according to Austria’s statistics office.  Austrian bonds fell yesterday, pushing the 10-year yield up
7 basis points to 2.98 percent in  London . The yield had earlier
fallen to as low as 2.88 percent. The  extra interest  Austria has
to pay investors to hold its 10-year bonds instead of  Germany ’s
rose 15 basis points to 130 basis points.  S&P put Austria, along with 14 other euro nations, on
review for possible downgrade on Dec. 5, citing “the risk of
the need for additional capital injections by the Austrian
government” into the country’s banks.  Banks Exposed  Austrian banks are the biggest lenders in the former
communist part of  Europe , having lent $266 billion or about 70
percent of the country’s gross domestic product. While they are
profitable in most of the countries, losses are rising in
Hungary, whose government has imposed Europe’s highest banking
tax and is forcing banks to swallow losses on foreign-currency
denominated debt.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  owns Hungary’s second-biggest lender,
and  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  owning the country’s fifth-
largest. In total, Austrian banks’ claims on Hungarian
households, companies and the public sector stood at $41.6
billion at the end of June, compared with $23.4 billion for
Italian lenders, according to the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank
for International Settlements.  East Europe Loans  Austria, seeking to protect its rating, in November ordered
its three biggest banks to curb new loans in eastern Europe in
an attempt to limit their vulnerabilities. Since 2009, the
Alpine republic has injected 9 billion euros ($11.4 billion)
into banks and nationalized Kommunalkredit Austria AG and Hypo
Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG.  “We may lower the rating if we come to believe that the
weakening of Austrian banks’ balance sheets stemming from
negative developments in major trading and outward direct
investment partners meant that the Austrian government needed to
recapitalize the banks,” S&P said.  Austria’s ties to southern neighbor Italy have turned into
another potential risk factor. Lending by Austrian banks to
Italian borrowers is $24.4 billion, according to the BIS
numbers. The country’s second-biggest lender is owned by Italian
bank  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)  Italy devoured 7.8 percent of Austria’s
 exports  in 2010, the second-biggest share after Germany.  ‘Warning Shot’  Austria’s coalition government last year started talks to
accelerate  deficit reduction  by 2 billion euros annually,
starting this year. The precise split of the consolidation
hasn’t been agreed between Chancellor Faymann’s social democrats
and Finance Minister Maria Fekter’s conservatives. Lacking a
two-thirds majority in parliament, they also failed to add a
“debt brake” clause to the country’s constitution last year.  Central bank Governor Ewald Nowotny said the downgrade was
a “warning shot” reminding that the government’s budget
consolidation plans need to be implemented quickly and that it
was right to take measures to limit the eastern European risk
for Austrian banks.  Moody’s Investors Service affirmed Austria’s AAA rating
Dec. 23 after a review while  Fitch Ratings  confirmed it Nov. 16.  The Wifo research institute in Vienna cut its 2012 growth
forecast last month, citing government budget cuts that will
push up unemployment. It sees gross domestic product rising 0.4
percent, down from a September prediction of 0.8 percent growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  