-- Lazard Names Kurtz Restructuring Chief to Take Over From Ridings, Savage
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2012-01-14T16:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/lazard-names-kurtz-restructuring-chief-to-take-over-from-ridings-savage.html
Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , shaking up one of  Wall
Street ’s biggest restructuring practices, picked David Kurtz to
be global head of the unit, taking over for the group’s co-
founders, Barry Ridings and Frank “Terry” Savage.  Kurtz, 57, who has worked at the firm since 2002, will
still be based in Lazard’s  Chicago  office, he said in a
telephone interview. Ridings and Savage will assume new roles
expanding the company’s practice overseas, said Antonio Weiss,
Lazard’s global head of  investment banking .  Lazard managing director Andrew Yearley, 44, will oversee
the North American restructuring practice. London-based managing
directors Richard Stables, 47, and Laurent Rossetti, 41, will
oversee the restructuring group in Europe, the  Middle East  and
 Africa .  “These changes will promote the next generation of
leadership in the group and free up Barry and Terry to pursue
the business we see developing in the marketplace globally,”
Weiss said. “Restructuring is an important practice for Lazard,
and we anticipate increasing levels of activity internationally,
particularly in Europe.”  Lazard advised on the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and is working with  Greece  on restructuring its
debt. Ridings, 59, and Savage, 64, will remain vice chairmen of
Lazard’s investment bank and focus on expanding the firm’s
restructuring and debt-advisory practice outside  North America .  Another Lazard managing director in the restructuring
group, Daniel Aronson, will focus on expanding the firm’s
investment-banking practice in Chicago.  Evercore’s Approach  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , the advisory firm that competes
with Lazard and other investment banks to advise large
corporations, creditors and unions on bankruptcies and
turnarounds, sought in December to hire Kurtz to run its
restructuring group, said four people familiar with the matter.  Evercore co-founder  Roger Altman  personally recruited Kurtz
to join his firm and has been searching for a senior
restructuring banker to help run the practice, the people said.
Carina Davidson, a spokeswoman for Evercore, declined to comment
on talks with Kurtz. Altman didn’t return a message seeking
comment.  Kurtz, a former bankruptcy lawyer at Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLP, has overseen restructurings including those
of Tribune Co. and Dynegy Inc.  “It’s been gratifying to watch the development of the
group,” Kurtz said. “Our competition tends to consist of one
or two senior bankers, but we have a bench that is unrivaled.”  Repko, Millstein  William Repko, a co-founder of Evercore’s restructuring
group, moved to a senior advisory role at the end of 2011. Last
year, Evercore sought to hire  Jim Millstein , a former Lazard
banker who previously was the U.S. Treasury Department’s chief
restructuring officer, one of the people said. Millstein
declined, and later formed his own restructuring company.  David Ying, who co-founded Evercore’s restructuring group
with Repko, advised on MF Global Holdings Ltd., which filed last
year the eighth-largest bankruptcy in U.S. history. Kurtz would
have co-run restructuring with Ying, one person familiar with
the matter said.  Advisory firms are preparing for a jump in restructurings
amid concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will curb investor
appetite for risky securities and limit options for companies
seeking to refinance. Moody’s Investors Service predicted the
global default rate on high-yield debt may climb to 2.4 percent
by November from a projected 1.7 percent at the end of 2011.  Blackstone, Moelis  Under Ridings and Savage, who started the restructuring
practice in 1999 after leaving Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, Lazard
has built a one of the largest restructuring groups on Wall
Street with more than 100 professionals. When General Motors and
Chrysler LLC filed for bankruptcy in 2009, Lazard advised the
United Auto Workers union in talks with the automakers and
Treasury.  Lazard advised on some of the largest bankruptcies of 2011,
including the filings of Dynegy Holdings LLC, NewPage Corp and
 American Airlines ’ pilots union during the carrier’s bankruptcy.  Lazard vies for millions of dollars in advisory fees with
firms such as Evercore, Rothschild, Blackstone Group LP,
Houlihan Lokey and Moelis & Co. It has been paid $30.3 million
for its work on the Lehman bankruptcy through November,
according to legal filings. The group is advising Eastman Kodak
Co. on a potential debt restructuring or bankruptcy, people
familiar with the matter said in October.  Lazard also is advising the Treasury on Ally Financial
Inc., the lender that received a $17.2 billion taxpayer bailout.
Centerview Partners LLP, another advisory firm that’s working
with Ally’s money-losing mortgage unit Residential Capital LLC,
hired two former managing directors from Miller Buckfire & Co.
for its turnaround group earlier this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  