-- Bailed-Out Irish Seek Partial Debt Market Return in June or July
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   C o r m a c   M u l l e n
-- 2012-01-13T13:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/bailed-out-irish-seek-partial-debt-market-return-in-june-or-july.html
Ireland may seek a partial re-entry
to international credit markets in June or July, ending an
almost two-year hiatus,  John Corrigan , head of the country’s
debt agency, said.  The Dublin-based agency is looking at the possibility of
selling short-term securities in the middle of the year, as the
country meets its bailout program targets and the euro-region
crisis moves towards resolution, Corrigan said.  “Six months is a long time in  capital markets ,” he said in
an interview with Dublin-based  RTE  radio, aired today, adding he
couldn’t specify how much the agency would seek to sell. “We’re
obviously counting in billions rather than millions.”  Ireland stepped out of bond markets and sought a 67.5
billion euro ($88.5 billion) international rescue in 2010, amid
concern that the nation’s banking woes would push it into
bankruptcy. While the government is fully funded through 2013,
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  has said the state may try to
test markets in the second half of 2012, before a full market
return next year.  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the nation’s
benchmark, yielded 7.66 percent today, compared with 8.15
percent at the start of November.  In a separate meeting with reporters, Corrigan said the
“mood music” surrounding the euro region debt crisis “will have
to get a little more positive,” as the nation seeks a return to
debt markets. He said a syndicated sale is the most likely
method for long-term re-entry to bond markets.  “Markets are very fickle,” he said, adding Ireland has
drawn interest from U.S. investors who believe the country’s
debt may be the best way to play the euro region. “We shouldn’t
be just conditioned by where markets are at the moment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Cormac Mullen at   cmullen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  