-- Bain, BC Partners, Morrison Said to Be Remaining Bidders For Iceland Foods
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-01-13T12:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/bain-bc-partners-morrison-said-to-be-remaining-bidders-for-iceland-foods.html
Bain Capital LLC,  BC Partners  Ltd.
and William Morrison Supermarkets Plc are the remaining bidders
for Iceland Foods Ltd., the U.K. budget grocery chain, according
to four people with knowledge of the plan.  Second-round offers for the frozen-food retailer are due at
the end of January, one of the people said.  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda unit dropped out of bidding for the whole business,
according to two people familiar with the process who declined
to be identified because the plans are private.  Malcolm Walker ,
Iceland’s founder and second-largest shareholder with a 23
percent stake, has the right to match the highest offer.  Bidders face a slowing U.K. grocery market where higher
inflation and concern about unemployment are curbing spending.
Market leader  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  yesterday surprised investors with a
forecast of “minimal” profit growth next year amid gains by
competitors. Iceland’s market share rose to 2 percent in the 12
weeks through Dec. 25 from 1.9 percent a year earlier, according
to Kantar Worldpanel, making it the ninth-largest U.K. grocer.  Landsbanki Islands hf  and Glitnir Bank hf, a failed
Icelandic bank, are selling their combined 77 percent stake in
the budget supermarket chain, which was founded by Walker in
1970 and now has more than 700 stores.  Buyout firm TPG Capital is considering re-entering the
bidding by teaming up with Malcolm Walker, according to a person
familiar with the plans. Bidders are unable to discuss the deal
with the founder, another person said.  Increasing Sales  Iceland increased sales by 5.9 percent to 2.4 billion
pounds ($3.7 billion) in the financial year ended March 25,
while pretax profit rose 15 percent to 155.5 million pounds.
Both Tesco, which lost 4.9 billion pounds in market value when
its  shares  plunged 16 percent yesterday, and J Sainsbury Plc
have said they are cutting back on store openings as the market
slows. Tesco plans to focus on less-capital intensive  internet
sales  instead of large, out-of-town hypermarkets, while
 Sainsbury, (SBRY)  the U.K.’s third-largest grocer, has also pared down
its store opening plans to 1.2 million square feet (111,484
square meters) as it focuses on smaller convenience outlets.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch and UBS AG are handling the
sale of Iceland. Credit Suisse is advising Morrison, the
smallest of the four main U.K. supermarket companies.  Morrison this week predicted a tougher 2012 characterized
by “low-to-negative” selling volume and constrained  consumer
spending . The Bradford, England-based grocer has added an own-
brand entry-level product range, a line of ready-meals and
opened stores to build sales as consumers’ budgets were hurt by
food-price inflation and concern about the economy.  Richard Taylor, a spokesman for Morrison, said the grocer
never comments on potential acquisitions. Asda spokesman Nick Agarwal declined to comment on the speculation. Bain and BC
partners also declined to comment.  Mark Rigby, a spokesman for J Sainsbury Plc, declined to
comment. Finance Director  John Rogers  has previously said the
supermarket is only interested in 10 or 20 Iceland stores.  Sky News  reported yesterday that Asda abandoned plans to
bid for Iceland, without saying where it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  