-- Banesto’s Shrinking Loans Herald Spanish Recession: Euro Credit
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-01-13T08:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/banesto-s-shrinking-loans-herald-recession.html
Banco Espanol de Credito SA (BTO) ’s
dwindling loan book is symptomatic of the risk that  Spain’s
economy (SPNAGDPQ)  will slump into a recession.  The bank, which is known as Banesto and is a unit of  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) , the nation’s biggest financial firm, cut lending
by 8.6 percent last year, according to its fourth-quarter
 earnings  report published yesterday. The pullback at the first
Spanish bank to report 2011 results accelerated from 7 percent
in the nine months through September.  “This will continue,” Jose Antonio Garcia Cantera,
Banesto’s Chief Executive Officer, told a news conference in
Madrid yesterday. “The decline in lending is associated with
the natural process of deleveraging of the Spanish economy.”  Investors demand about 380 basis points more yield to own
Banesto’s secured four-year bonds than similar maturity German
bunds, up from 228 when the securities were sold in March.
Spanish banks are unwinding a credit boom that saw lending more
than triple between 2000 and the peak in 2008,  scaling back  as
bad loans mount, funding markets remain closed and  capital
ratios  are scrutinized by investors and regulators.  The combination of less funds being available and reduced
borrowing appetite from consumers anxious about jobs and incomes
augurs a recession, said  Gilles Moec , co-chief European
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London .  Fragile Economy  “The banking sector is one of the reasons why the Spanish
economy is in such a fragile situation,” he said. “We’re
watching the fiscal austerity and the flow of credit to
businesses and households. Without a significant improvement in
banking conditions, you can’t have any recovery in domestic
demand.”  The Spanish government sold 10 billion euros ($13 billion)
of bonds at auctions yesterday, twice as much as it targeted.
Its  three-year borrowing cost  dropped to 3.384 percent from the
5.187 percent the last time similar maturity debt was sold in
December. Its two-year yield dropped below 3 percent yesterday
for the first time since April 2011.  Lending in the economy  shrank by an annual 2.5 percent in
October, following a 2.6 percent decline in September that was
the steepest drop recorded in Bank of  Spain  data going back 48
years. Credit for buying durable  consumer goods  has dropped by a
third from the 2008 high, according to the regulator.  ‘Liquidity Risks’  Banesto’s lending to the private sector dropped 9.2 percent
in 2011 because of weak demand and “greater credit and
liquidity risks,” the bank said in a  presentation  yesterday.
Requests for loans from individuals dwindled to 3.3 billion
euros from 8.6 billion euros in 2010, Garcia Cantera said. The
bank may trim lending by a further 5 percent this year and 2
percent in 2013, according to a Jan. 9 report by Citigroup Inc.  “Banesto is shrinking its loan book and this process is
not over yet,” said Ignacio Moreno, an author of the report.  Banesto’s own loans tripled from 2002, the year Ana Patricia Botin, the eldest daughter of Santander Chairman  Emilio Botin , took over as chairman of the unit, to when she left in
2010 to lead its U.K. business. Lending by Santander’s branch
network in Spain, which competes with Banesto, contracted by an
annualized 6.6 percent last year through September.  The new government, led by  Mariano Rajoy , is raising taxes
and cutting spending in a bid to trim a  budget deficit  that it
says ended 2011 at about 8 percent of gross domestic product,
higher than the 6 percent targeted by the previous
administration.  Ballooning Deficit  Moody’s Investors Service said in a Jan. 9 report that
Spain should make an adjustment of 40 billion euros to trim the
deficit to 4.4 percent of GDP this year. The ratings company
said it now expects the economy to shrink by as much as 1
percent this year after growth of 0.7 percent in 2011.  “This year is still going to be difficult with a lot of
unemployment and negative growth in the first part of it,” said
Antonio Basagoiti, Banesto’s chairman, in a news conference in
 Madrid  yesterday. “In the first part of the year at least I
don’t see new demand for credit or growth in lending
happening.”  Banesto is also charging more for money to cover higher
costs. The average yield on its lending climbed to 3.92 percent
from 3.6 percent at the end of 2010, the bank said. Even so,
Banesto’s net interest income, or the margin it earns from
lending and pays for funds, fell 12 percent during 2011. It
plans to further reduce the ratio of loans to deposits in 2012.  “Obviously it’s worrying for the economy, but what banks
do need is to deleverage their balance sheet and have a more
stable funding structure,” said Carlos Joaquim Peixoto, an
analyst at  Portugal ’s Banco BPI SA. “It’s a painful process,
yes, but it is necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  