-- Thailand Arrests Hezbollah Terror Suspect, U.S. Warns of Attack in Bangkok
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-01-13T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/bangkok-warned-by-u-s-embassy-of-possible-terror-attack-on-tourist-areas.html
Thailand  said it arrested a Lebanese
terror suspect aiming to target Jewish sites in Bangkok less
than three hours after the U.S.  warned  of a possible attack.  Thai police arrested a suspect linked to the Iranian-backed
Hezbollah group, Deputy Prime Minister Chalerm Yoobamrung told
reporters. U.S. Embassy spokesman Walter Braunohler said by
phone the warning remains in place even after reports of the
arrest.  “The situation is normal,” Police Chief Priewpan Damapong
told reporters. “There is nothing to worry about.”  The U.S. warned today in an “emergency message” that
“foreign terrorists may be currently looking to conduct attacks
against tourist areas in Bangkok in the near future.” U.S.
Ambassador Kristie Kenney  said on Twitter  the threat is
“Bangkok specific” and “credible.”  Thailand, a U.S. treaty ally that sent troops to  Iraq  in
2003, depends on tourism for about 7 percent of gross domestic
product, according to the government. The benchmark  SET Index (SET) 
fell 0.7 percent, the most in a month, after the U.S. warning.  Minor International Pcl (MINT) , Thailand’s biggest hotel operator,
dropped 3.4 percent, the most in seven weeks, Dusit Thani Pcl
slumped 4 percent and Shangri-la Hotel Bangkok Pcl fell 3.1
percent. Thailand had about 19 million tourist visits last year,
according to official statistics.  Car Bomb  The U.S. told Thai officials several days ago that two
terrorist suspects had entered Bangkok, Defense Minister
Yuthasak Sasiprapha told reporters. A car bomb might be used at
the Israeli Embassy, Jewish places of worship, tourist companies
and restaurants, he said, adding that Hezbollah was “aiming for
revenge against Israelis living in Thailand.”  Thai and Israeli intelligence officials are monitoring the
group, Yuthasak said. INN News earlier cited Chalerm as saying
two suspects were arrested.  Hezbollah, based in Lebanon, was designated as a foreign
terrorist organization by U.S. President  Bill Clinton  in 1997.
It is among several terrorist groups supported by Iran,
according to the  U.S. State Department .  The threat may be related to U.S. moves to sanction Iran
over its nuclear weapons program, according to Anthony Davis, a
Bangkok-based analyst at IHS Jane’s.  Iranian Tensions  The U.S. is “looking at pro-Iranian groups that might
possibly react to what may very well go down in the Straits of
Hormuz and possibly beyond,” Davis said. “It seems unlikely
that terrorist attacks would be launched before the situation in
the  Middle East  has escalated significantly.”  Tensions over the ratcheting up of sanctions led Iranian
Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi to threaten on Dec. 27 that
 Iran  may block the  Strait of Hormuz , the transit for about a
fifth of the world’s oil, if the European Union bans exports
from the Islamic Republic.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  visited China
and  Japan  this week to build support for tighter Iranian
economic sanctions after international monitors detected an
acceleration in the nation’s nuclear development program. Ally
Japan pledged to reduce Iran oil imports after China rejected a
similar move.  Hambali, the suspected leader of al-Qaeda in  Southeast Asia 
and Jemaah Islamiyah’s operations chief who also goes by the
name Riduan Isamuddin, was captured in Thailand in 2003 and is
now in U.S. custody.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  