-- BankUnited Said to Explore Sale One Year After Lender’s IPO; Shares Climb
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-01-13T21:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/bankunited-said-to-explore-a-sale-one-year-after-lender-s-public-offering.html
BankUnited Inc (BKU) ., Florida’s second-
biggest bank, is exploring a sale one year after its private-
equity owners took the lender public, according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  BankUnited is holding talks with potential buyers, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the
discussions are private. The lender, with a market value of
about $2.25 billion as of yesterday, is working with  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the people said. The company could still
decide against a sale.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  may be among companies
interested in BankUnited, said Ralph “Chip” MacDonald III, a
partner at law firm  Jones Day  in Atlanta who represents banks.
TD Bank was among the bidders for BankUnited in 2009 when
federal regulators were preparing to seize it ahead of its
collapse.  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  is another regional
bank that is boosting its market share in the U.S. Southeast
through the planned acquisition of Royal Bank of Canada’s U.S.
retail bank.  “BankUnited could be appealing to someone who is looking
for a relatively clean, well-capitalized franchise, especially
in Florida,” MacDonald said. BankUnited’s market is “long-term
attractive, without much credit risk.”  Bank Deals  At BankUnited’s closing price of $23.15 yesterday, the
lender traded at about 1.5 times its book value per share,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s already higher
than the median 1.34 times book value that U.S. banks fetched in
takeovers in the past two years, the data show. The data include
25 acquisitions worth more than $100 million.  The stock jumped 5.8 percent to $24.48 at 4:04 p.m. New
York time. Before today, the shares had dropped 14 percent since
the lender’s initial public offering.  A spokesperson for  Miami Lakes , Florida-based BankUnited
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Andrea Rachman , a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Spokeswomen for TD Bank, PNC and BB&T also declined to comment.  The bank raised about $900 million in an IPO last January,
or triple what it had earlier registered to sell. Blackstone
Group LP, Carlyle Group LP, WL Ross & Co. and Centerbridge
Capital Partners LLC still hold  stakes  in the bank totaling more
than 50 percent, based on regulatory filings compiled by
Bloomberg.  Private-Equity Backers  The shares sold for $27 apiece in the IPO, compared with
the $10.01 the owners paid on average when they took over the
bank, according to filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Investors, including Carlyle, Blackstone and WL
Ross, sold 25 million shares at $27 apiece for $675 million.
BankUnited itself sold about 4 million shares for $108 million.
Both amounts exclude an overallotment option.  The bank was among U.S. lenders that failed during the
collapse of the housing market, prompting regulators to seize
its operations and sell most of them to a group that included
Chief Executive Officer John Kanas in 2009. Today the lender is
 Florida ’s second-biggest by deposits after Jacksonville-based
EverBank Financial Corp., according to data compiled by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  BankUnited may report net income of $118 million for 2011,
according to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
lender had $11 billion of assets, $6.9 billion of total deposits
and operated more than 80 branches as of September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  