-- South Korea Holds Key Rate a Seventh Month as Growth Risks Rise: Economy
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-01-13T06:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/bank-of-korea-holds-interest-rate-for-seventh-month-on-europe-weaker-won.html
The Bank of Korea held off from
raising borrowing costs for the seventh straight month,
highlighting growing risks to its economy from  Europe ’s debt
crisis even as a weaker won threatens to fuel inflation.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board kept the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  unchanged at 3.25 percent, the central
bank said in a statement in Seoul today. The decision was
predicted by all 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Inflation in Asia’s fourth-largest economy is 1 percentage
point higher than the average of the past decade, impinging on
the central bank’s ability to protect growth. Kim has refrained
from joining Australia and  Thailand  in cutting rates even as
Europe’s woes and China’s slowing expansion damp exports, while
the death of North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  last month pushed
manufacturers’ confidence to a 30-month low.  “I’m sure that the Koreans would love to be cutting
 interest rates  anytime soon as the economy is losing pace but
given the persistent inflationary pressures, the best choice is
to hold on for a little bit,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income
analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. in  Seoul . “Once inflation eases
to a comfortable level, near 3 percent, then the central bank
will be able to cut interest rates and I believe it’s in April.”  While the global economic recovery will be “very slow,”
inflation expectations are high and the central bank will
“normalize” rates if price gains become chronic, Kim said
today.  Monetary policy  will aim to stabilize consumer price
gains at 3 percent and inflationary risks have increased “due to
the heightened geopolitical risks in the  Middle East ,” the
central bank said.  Stocks Climb  The Kospi share index rose 0.6 percent in Seoul today. The
won traded 0.9 percent higher at 1,148.25 against the dollar as
of 3 p.m. local time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency fell about 8 percent over the past six months, the
worst performer in  Asia  after the  Indian rupee .  The country’s stocks rose along with Asia’s benchmark index,
as lower Italian and Spanish borrowing costs added to optimism
Europe’s debt crisis may be contained. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index gained as much as 0.9 percent today.  South Korean import prices climbed 7.1 percent in December
from a year earlier, a report showed today. Export prices rose
2.5 percent after a 5.4 percent increase the previous month.  Later Cut  “We do not expect a pre-emptive rate cut and do expect the
BOK to cut rates only after they witness weaker GDP growth and
lower inflation,” said Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., who expects the central bank
to cut rates by 0.25 percentage point each in April and July.  Elsewhere in the region,  China ’s foreign-exchange reserves
posted the first quarterly decline in more than a decade, as
foreign investment moderated, the  trade surplus  narrowed and
investors withdrew capital amid the global financial crisis. The
holdings, the world’s biggest, fell to $3.18 trillion at the end
of December from $3.2 trillion at the end of September,
according to People’s Bank of China data released today.  Singapore ’s retail sales growth slowed, with purchases
advancing 6.4 percent from a year earlier in November from a
revised 8.4 percent the previous month, a report showed today.  In Europe, Finland may report inflation eased to 3.1
percent in December,  Hungary ’s consumer prices may have climbed
4.3 percent, and Spanish inflation may have held at 2.4 percent,
according to Bloomberg surveys.  U.K. Prices Easing  U.K. producer prices probably rose 5 percent from a year
earlier last month, from a 5.4 percent gain in November,
according to the median of 16 estimates. Russia and  Poland  will
release trade data.  The U.S. may report a trade deficit of $45 billion in
November, while a Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index
of consumer sentiment probably climbed to 71.5 from 69.9,
Bloomberg surveys showed.  South  Korea ’s decision to keep the benchmark rate unchanged
today was unanimous, Governor Kim said. The reserve ratio can
also be used as a policy tool that has a short-term impact on
liquidity, even as interest rates remain the “basic” monetary
policy measure and can’t be replaced by the ratio, he said.  Risks to Asia’s fourth-largest economy are increasing and
inflation may ease at a moderate pace as growth slows for some
time before picking up, the central bank said today. Still,
 South Korea  may get on a normal recovery path in the second half
of the year, Kim said.  A weakening won makes imported goods more expensive,
keeping inflation pressures elevated. South Korea’s consumer
prices rose 4.2 percent from a year earlier in November and
December, exceeding the central bank’s target limit of 4 percent
and more than the 3.2 percent average for the 10 years through
2011.  Tolerance Rising  “The government’s tolerance for a stronger currency is
rising, as it tries to limit the pass-through from high imported
energy prices to consumers,” said Wai Ho Leong, a senior
regional economist at  Barclays Capital  in Singapore. He projects
the won to rise to 1,025 per dollar in 12 months.  Leong also said the government may rely more on fiscal
policy to support growth ahead of general and presidential
elections this year as high household debt and rising costs of
living limit the central bank’s ability to cut interest rates.  The government plans to make 60 percent of its expenditures
in the first half of this year, the  Finance Ministry  said last
month. The economy is expected to grow 3.7 percent, the slowest
in three years, it said.  South Korea forecast that  export growth  will slow to 6.7
percent this year, from 19.6 percent in 2011, according to the
Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  on Jan. 1. Overseas shipments rose
12.5 percent last month compared with a year earlier.  Growth in the fourth quarter may fall short of the central
bank’s forecast, Kim said today. The economy is unlikely to
contract, he said.  “We expect the  Bank of Korea  to keep rates unchanged
throughout this year,” said Ryan Oh, a Seoul-based fixed-income
analyst at Samsung Securities Co. “The central bank
acknowledged increasing downside risks the Korean economy is
facing, but this won’t lead to rate cuts as the central bank
also showed in detail its concerns about inflation in the
statement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  