-- Belgian Budget Goal Challenged as 2011 Deficit Misses Target
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s   a n d   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2012-01-13T16:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/belgian-budget-goal-challenged-as-2011-deficit-misses-target-1-.html
Belgium ’s 2011 budget deficit
exceeded previous estimates, the government said today, dealing
a blow to Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo as he tries to trim the
shortfall to within the European Union’s limit.  The  deficit  last year was 4 percent of gross domestic
product, exceeding estimates of 3.6 percent by the previous
government and the European Commission, Budget Minister Olivier Chastel and Finance Minister Steven Vanackere told reporters in
Brussels today. Di Rupo has pledged to cut the deficit to less
than 3 percent of GDP this year, as required by the EU.  The gloomy deficit news comes as Di Rupo’s six-party
coalition prepares to lower its economic growth forecast from
0.8 percent in a budget review next month. Chastel  said  on Jan.
11 that growth will probably be about 0.3 percent, meaning the
planned deficit will be equivalent to a larger share of GDP. Di
Rupo has already frozen 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion) of
planned spending to win a reprieve from EU sanctions.  “I’m convinced that it’s feasible” to meet the deficit
target, Vanackere said in an interview. “One needs to be
confident, but at the same time one needs to explain clearly
that this is going to imply a very serious budget control
operation. That is accepted by all of the parties.”  Primary Deficit  The 17-month political impasse that followed an
inconclusive election in June 2010 left Belgium’s caretaker
administration led by former Prime Minister  Yves Leterme  largely
reliant on economic expansion to boost tax receipts and reduce
the deficit.  Belgium’s economy  contracted  for the first time in more
than two years in the third quarter, with GDP falling 0.1
percent from the preceding three-month period. Total  tax revenue 
began to decline in September, according to the  Finance
Ministry .  The primary deficit, which excludes debt-servicing costs,
narrowed to about 0.9 percent of GDP last year. Interest
payments totaled 11.4 billion euros, or 3.08 percent of GDP,
according to government estimates. That compares with 11.1
billion euros, or 3.12 percent of GDP, in 2010.  Belgian borrowing costs fell today in the treasury’s first
sale of longer-dated bonds this year. The debt agency said it
sold 300 million euros of March 2035 bonds at an average yield
of 4.33 percent, down from 5.774 percent at the previous auction
on Nov. 28. Investors also bought 100 million euros of bonds due
March 2028 at an average yield of 4.232 percent compared with
4.511 percent in February.  Debt Auctions  The debt agency said on Dec. 12 that it aims to sell 26
billion euros of notes and bonds in auctions and syndicated
sales through banks this year. That’s 36 percent less than last
year’s 40.9 billion euros. Today’s debt sale was the first of a
series of potential mid-month auctions capped at 500 million
euros, which gives the debt agency the flexibility to sell debt
twice a month.  The breakup of  Dexia SA (DEXB)  also affected public finances last
year. Leterme’s caretaker government spent 4 billion euros to
nationalize the lender’s Belgian banking unit, which added about
1.1 percentage point to the country’s debt load, and the
regional governments had to take losses on short-term loans and
loan guarantees given to  Dexia shareholder  Holding Communal SA,
which is being liquidated after the decline in the value of its
biggest holding depleted shareholder equity.  Bailout Repayments  Public debt increased to  98.1 percent  of GDP from 96.2
percent in 2010. That’s the highest level in eight years.
Vanackere said a reduction of Belgium’s debt load this year will
be dependent on a recovery of bailout funds given to banks in
recent years.  “Having a deficit of 2.8 percent is not going to bring the
debt ratio down by 2 percent” this year, as required by the EU,
Vanackere said. “To do that we need to have the reimbursement
of financial investments that have been done in the past.”  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , Belgium’s biggest bank and insurer by market
value, reimbursed 500 million euros so far, out of a total 7
billion euros in government rescue funds received. It also made
a 75 million-euro penalty payment on Jan. 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  