-- Billionaire Paulson Persists With Property
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-01-13T17:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/billionaire-paulson-persisting-with-property-as-prices-rebound-mortgages.html
Mortgage securities are drawing
buyers after tumbling last year and handing billionaire hedge
fund manager  John Paulson  his first loss in the  bond market .  Paulson, who made $15 billion in 2007 betting against U.S.
 subprime mortgages , is sticking with bullish investments in
residential and commercial mortgage securities, helping his
Credit Opportunities Ltd. fund gain about 1 percent last quarter
to narrow its 2011 decline to 18 percent.  Renewed demand is helping to fuel a rebound that’s allowing
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  to attract buyers for bonds
it took over during the rescue of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  in 2008. It dropped efforts in June to sell that debt after
sending prices tumbling in credit markets. Neuberger Berman
Group LLC, Pine River Capital Management LP and Metacapital
Management LP also see value in the $1.1 trillion  market  for
non-agency debt, or home-loan bonds without government backing.  “Investors can make attractive returns without any
improvement in the economic landscape,” said Troy Gayeski, who
helps invest $3 billion of client money in  hedge funds  at
SkyBridge Capital LLC in New York. “It’s the second-most
compelling opportunity for hedge funds by far,” trailing only
speculation on the pace of repayments in mortgage securities
backed by the U.S. government.  One benchmark gauge of commercial-mortgage debt has jumped
6.6 cents to 63.2 cents on the dollar this year, up from 46.6 in
October, and subprime residential bonds are poised for a third
month of gains, according to Markit Group Ltd. and Barclays
Capital data.  Buyer Approached Fed  Some mortgage securities slumped more than 30 percent from
first-quarter highs after the Fed sold about $10 billion in face
value of debt once owned by New York-based insurer AIG, Wall
Street dealers curbed risk-taking and Europe’s fiscal crisis
roiled markets.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. approached the Fed to buy a block
of the AIG-related debt, prompting the central bank to weigh an
auction for about $7 billion of the  securities , three people
familiar with the matter said. Goldman Sachs may have sought the
bonds for itself or clients, the people said, who declined to be
identified because the deliberations are private. The assets,
held by a vehicle called Maiden Lane II, had dwindled to about
$21 billion when the auctions were halted.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment, as did the  New York  Fed’s Jack Gutt
and Mark Herr of AIG. The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday
Goldman Sachs’s bid.  ‘Doomsday Scenario’  While non-agency securities may fall further if Europe’s
banks need to sell assets, in “a doomsday scenario” of  home
prices  declining as much as 30 percent and  unemployment  reaching
20 percent, the bonds are priced so low an investor could
probably avoid losses by holding to maturity, Gayeski said.  Home prices will drop 1 percent in 2012, according to a
forecast by  Freddie Mac , which along with  Fannie Mae  and Ginnie
Mae guarantee so-called agency mortgage bonds with government
backing. An  S&P/Case-Shiller index  of values in 20 cities slid
3.4 percent in the year through October to 32 percent below its
2006 peak. Unemployment fell to 8.5 percent in December, the
least since February 2009, from 10 percent that year.  Paulson, 56, started buying top-rated residential debt in
late 2008 and similar commercial-mortgage bonds around April
2009. His credit fund, which also invests in high-yield, high-
risk corporate bonds and  loans , gained 591 percent in 2007 on
bets against subprime mortgages. It returned 20 percent in 2010
and hadn’t posted a losing year since inception in 2006.  ‘Recent Correction’  “While the housing market continues to face some weakness,
the recent correction in MBS prices has been more severe than
justified by underlying real estate market fundamentals,”
Paulson said in an October investor letter, a copy of which was
obtained by Bloomberg News. “This creates an opportunity to
benefit from very attractive yields on both” residential and
commercial mortgage securities.  Paulson & Co.’s credit funds owned at least $2.4 billion of
mortgage-backed securities on a “notional” basis in the third
quarter, or at least 20 percent of its holdings, according to
data in the letter. Notional typically refers to the face value
of bonds or bets in derivative markets.  Paulson is persisting with the wager, according to a person
with knowledge of the fund, who asked not to be named because
the information is private. A spokesman for the $28 billion
hedge fund in New York declined to comment.  Paulson’s Advantage Plus fund, one of his largest, slumped
51 percent last year as bets on a U.S. economic recovery
backfired and banks declined. The fund had lost 46 percent
through the end of September.  Neuberger Buys  Tom Sontag, a  money manager  in  Chicago  at  Neuberger Berman ,
which oversees about $183 billion in assets, added non-agency
securities to some of his portfolios in late November and
December, focusing on subprime bonds.  “The sector is one of the most attractive out there,” he
said. The market fell more than other securities for “specific
technical factors” such as the Fed’s auctions and regulatory
changes that will boost how much capital dealers will need to
hold against low-rated debt, which spurred sales, he said.  Top-ranked subprime-mortgage bonds from 2005 through 2007,
the years with the worst loans, declined 8.8 percent on average
from March through October, according to a Barclays Capital
index. Some lost 21 percent in 2011, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
estimates.  Subprime Gains  Subprime bonds, which gained 25.6 percent in 2010, returned
1 percent since the end of October, Barclays data show. Typical
prices of top-ranked securities tied to so-called  Alt-A (BBMDA60P) 
adjustable-rate loans were unchanged in the month ended Jan. 4,
after falling to 48 cents on the dollar from 68 cents in
February.  Paulson referred to prices on Alt-A debt, which falls
between prime and subprime, in his October letter.  More than 28 percent of home loans underlying non-agency
securities are at least 60 days  delinquent , near the record 30.2
percent reached in March 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, after loan servicers slowed liquidations in response
to foreclosure-document errors and new defaults eased. First-
time defaults fell last month to an annual pace of 9.8 percent,
from 12 percent a year earlier, Amherst Securities Group LP data
show. Improvement since early 2009, when the rate exceeded 25
percent, is slowing as unemployment remains elevated.  The  CMBX.NA.AJ.4 , tied to classes of originally AAA rated
commercial debt most exposed to losses, has jumped 16.6 cents to
63.2 cents on the dollar since Oct. 18, after dropping from 84.8
in February, according to Markit, the index administrator.  Investment Grade Ratings  Commercial-mortgage debt is beating residential because
more securities tied to offices, shopping malls and skyscrapers
retain investment-grade ratings, said Steven Delaney, an equity
analyst at JMP Securities LLC who covers real estate investment
trusts. That widens the pool of potential investors, he said.  Non-agency securities are more attractive to investors able
to hold them to maturity than high-yield corporate debt because
they’re better priced to withstand an economic slowdown, said
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Dan Ivascyn, who manages the
$6.5 billion  Pimco Income Fund (PIMIX)  in  Newport Beach ,  California .  “Most market participants think this sector is cheap
versus other credit that’s rallied a bit,” said Ivascyn, who
also helps run Pimco’s private funds that target mortgage debt.
“The key is, we’re talking about on hold-to-maturity basis,
because if you have a major macro shock in the meantime, they
can trade down a lot.”  The securities generally offer “high-single digit” yields
even in a scenario where homes prices decline 10 percent, he
said.  Comparable Yields  Subprime debt offers yields of 12 percent to 13 percent
assuming 80 percent of the underlying borrowers default with
recoveries of 25 percent, saidSteve Kuhn, head of fixed-income
trading at Minnetonka, Minnesota-based Pine River Capital, on
Bloomberg Television on Dec. 13. The firm oversees $5.4 billion.  High-yield company bonds, ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , are
yielding 8.3 percent after declining from 10.2 percent in
October, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Metacapital, whose almost $900 million mortgage-focused
hedge fund returned about 23 percent in 2011, is looking for
opportunities in non-agency securities after last year remaining
“very light in the sector,” said Deepak Narula, the New York-
based firm’s head. The bonds “have cheapened to more reasonable
levels” and offer diversification to bets on refinancing, he
said.  Mortgage bonds have a higher risk of price declines when
there are sellers than corporate securities because fewer
investors have the tools to evaluate them, Ivascyn said.  Europe ’s Banks  European banks that may need to sell assets to bolster
capital hold as much as 249 billion euros ($319 billion) of
dollar-denominated securitized debt, including more than 60
billion euros of non-agency securities and as much as 21.7
billion euro of commercial mortgage bonds, Morgan Stanley
estimated in a November report.  Wall Street’s reluctance to carry  inventories  also means
that investors who want to sell may need to accept discounts,
said Jason Callan, head of structured products at Minneapolis-
based Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC.  Columbia, which oversees $170 billion in fixed-income, has
generally eschewed riskier types of housing debt in favor of
bonds backed by large prime mortgages issued before 2006, in
part because of concerns that liquidity is limited, Callan said.  Limited trading may prove a boon, Neuberger’s Sontag said.  “If there’s demand for this stuff, if people get hungry
for yield in this world of  near-zero rates , we could see prices
gap upward,” he said. “Because there aren’t a lot of guys who
want to part with bonds carrying yields in the mid-to-low
teens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  