-- Birinyi Stocks Posting Five Times S&P 500 Return as RIM Rallies
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-01-13T21:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/birinyi-stocks-posting-five-times-s-p-500-return-as-rim-rallies.html
Five companies highlighted by fund
manager  Laszlo Birinyi  as poised to gain in 2012 have returned
more than four times as much as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  General Motors Co. (GM)  has risen 20 percent this year after
U.S. vehicle sales rose more than analysts estimated.  Research
In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , maker of the BlackBerry smartphone, climbed 12
percent on speculation it hired a strategic adviser.  Hermes
International (RMS)  increased 9.4 percent,  People’s United Financial
Inc. (PBCT)  gained 6.3 percent and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  rallied 4.7 percent.  Birinyi, who advised holding stocks in August as the U.S.
government was stripped of its AAA credit rating and strategists
cut forecasts faster than any time since the credit crisis, said
American equities may jump about 8 percent this year, if history
is any guide. His five picks have so far appreciated more than
10 percent on average, compared with a  2.5 percent advance  in
the benchmark index.  “We still think you can make money,” Birinyi, president
of Birinyi Associates Inc. in Westport,  Connecticut , said in a
phone interview today. “I’ve seen opportunities in stocks that
aren’t a function of the overall market. These are five stocks
that can be the basis of a portfolio that someone can put on the
shelf and not have to worry about in a week or a month.”  Stock pickers have had more opportunities in 2012 to find
companies that are beating the market. While developments in
Europe’s attempt to tame its debt crisis led stocks in the S&P
500 last year to move more in tandem than any time in the past,
the link between shares and the full index has been weakening.  Gains, Losses  The 50-day correlation of S&P 500 stocks to gains or losses
in the gauge increased to a record 0.86 in October, according to
data compiled by Birinyi Associates. A level of 1 would mean all
500 stocks moved together. Correlation was 0.77 yesterday, the
data showed.  “Within asset classes you have some opportunities,”
Birinyi said today. “With the overall market so concerned about
things like  Europe  especially, I want to look for stocks that
don’t have a whole lot of European effect, so they may not have
the correlation that the overall market has.”  GM, the world’s largest automaker, is  trading  at 6 times
reported earnings, even after its 20 percent rise this year. The
Detroit-based company has  beaten  analyst earnings estimates for
the past four quarters, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s really a fundamental story, I guess you could call
it, for GM, and I think people have really missed it,” he said.  Birinyi cited Research in Motion’s patents and BlackRock’s
exchange-traded funds as reasons for selecting the stocks.
Hermes was one of the five stocks Birinyi recommended for 2011.  Increasing Earnings  The Paris-based company  rose 47 percent  and increased
earnings 30 percent last year, data and analyst projections
compiled by Bloomberg show. Birinyi said he kept the stock this
year partly for contrarian reasons as 14 of the 19 analysts who
cover the company have a “sell” rating and four recommend
holding it, Bloomberg data show.  Birinyi, an equity trader at Salomon Brothers Inc. in the
1980s, was one of the first investors to recommend buying when
stocks bottomed in 2009. He stayed  bullish  through the  S&P 500 ’s
decline of 16 percent in 2010 and last year’s tumble to 1,099.23
on Oct. 3 from 1,363.61 on April 29.  U.S. equities are in the third of four bull-market stages,
in which investors accept the rally that gathered momentum in
the first two, according to Birinyi’s analysis. He said this
phase, which  started around July , should end in 2012 with a gain
of at least 8 percent. The bull market’s final phase of
“exuberance” has lifted the S&P 500 an average of 39 percent
in the five advances since 1962, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  