-- Bloomberg View Expands Editorial Board
-- B y
-- 2012-01-13T14:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/bloomberg-view-expands-editorial-board.html

Press Release  New Board Members to be Based in  New York , London and Washington  NEW YORK -- Bloomberg View is adding five new members to its
editorial board as the section continues to expand, Bloomberg
View executive editor David Shipley announced today.  Katy Roberts, who was previously Week in Review editor at The
New York Times, will join Bloomberg View in New York. Three
board members will be based in Washington, DC, including: James
Gibney, former features editor at The Atlantic; Michael Newman,
former politics editor at Slate; and Deborah Solomon, former
economic policy reporter from The Wall Street Journal.  Marc Champion, formerly The Wall Street Journal’s Istanbul
bureau chief, will work from Bloomberg’s London bureau.  As Bloomberg View editorial board members, they will write and
review editorials and columns and commission op-ed articles for
the overall section.  Katy Roberts was commentary editor at NYTimes.com, where she
launched the Room for Debate discussion site and held a number
of roles including national editor, editor of the Week in Review
section and editor of the Op-Ed page.  James Gibney was features editor at the Atlantic. Prior to his
current role, he held a post at The New York Times and served as
a foreign service officer and as a speechwriter to President
 Bill Clinton  and Secretary of State Warren Christopher.  Michael Newman was politics editor at Slate and has also held
positions with Washingtonpost.com, the Los Angeles Times, where
he was deputy editorial pages editor, and the New York Times.
Newman holds a master’s degree in law from Yale and was a Henry
Luce Scholar in  South Korea .  Marc Champion was the Wall Street Journal’s Istanbul bureau
chief, where he had also served as deputy bureau chief for
Brussels,  Germany  and Eastern Europe and as European politics
and diplomacy correspondent. He has also held positions with the
Financial Times, the Moscow Times and the Independent.  Deborah Solomon was the economic policy reporter for The Wall
Street Journal in  Washington . During her tenure at The Wall
Street Journal, she also covered the Securities and Exchange
Commission, financial regulation, technology and
telecommunications. She was part of a team that received the
Pulitzer Prize in explanatory reporting for a series on
corporate scandals.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength-delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries. Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Ty Trippet, +1 212-617-2443,  ttrippet@bloomberg.net 
