-- BofA Said to Tell Fed It Can Shrink Branch Network in Emergency
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-01-13T16:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/bofa-said-to-tell-fed-it-can-shrink-branch-network-in-emergency.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender by assets, told the  Federal Reserve  in June
it could cut branches to preserve capital in an emergency, said
a person briefed on the discussions.  That option was among potential responses to a hypothetical
crisis in which the Charlotte, North Carolina-based company
needed to suddenly raise  capital , said the person, who declined
to be identified because the plans were private. The company
could also issue a separate class of shares tied to its Merrill
Lynch division, said the person.  In the months that followed, Bank of America Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  ramped up efforts to boost
capital by selling assets such as a $15 billion stake in China
Construction Bank Corp. and exiting non-U.S. credit-card
operations. He announced $5 billion in annual savings and 30,000
 job cuts  as part of the Project New BAC efficiency plan.  The lender has no imminent plans to reduce branches beyond
the 750 already targeted for closure, said the person. The bank
had 5,715 retail offices as of Sept. 30.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest U.S. bank by assets, had
5,508 at year-end and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said
today his New York-based company wants more. San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo & Co. had 6,265 outlets as of Sept. 30.  Bank of America’s contingency plans were reported yesterday
by the Wall Street Journal.  “We have greatly streamlined and simplified the company
and significantly improved our capital and liquidity,”  Larry
DiRita , a Bank of America spokesman, said today. “We’re a lot
less risky and complex company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  