-- TPG Capital Said to Consider Investing $1 Billion in Olympus Corp.
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-01-13T23:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/bonderman-s-tpg-capital-said-to-consider-investing-1-billion-in-olympus.html
TPG Capital, the private-equity firm
run by  David Bonderman , is considering an investment in  Olympus
Corp. (7733) , the Japanese camera maker that admitted to a $1.7 billion
cover-up of losses, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  TPG is weighing whether to join with a strategic partner to
invest as much as $1 billion in the Tokyo-based firm, according
to the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. While  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG has
spoken to potential partners, it’s not clear whether they will
pursue a deal, the person said.  Olympus, which is also the world’s largest endoscope maker,
restated more than five years of earnings on Dec. 14 after
admitting it inflated fees to advisers for the $2.1 billion
acquisition of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008 and overpaying for three
Japanese companies. This month, the company sued 19 current and
former officials, including former Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikuwaka,
over a $1.7 billion accounting fraud.  Olympus plunged 59 percent last year as news of the cover-
up emerged, making the stock the the fifth-worst performer on
the Nikkei 225 Stock Average. The firm’s shares fell 2.7 percent
to close at 1,236 yen ($16.06) on the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange
today.  A committee formed by Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC said
today that it hasn’t found any problems so far with an auditor’s
examination of accounts at the company. The findings aren’t
final and the review is continuing, the company said at a press
conference in Tokyo.  American Airlines   Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for TPG, said he couldn’t
comment on the company’s plans, which were reported earlier by
Reuters.  The firm is also looking at the possibility of investing in
AMR Corp., the bankrupt parent of American Airlines, people
familiar with the company said Jan. 12. Bonderman, 69, who co-
founded TPG in 1992, is also chairman of Ryanair Holdings Plc,
the Dublin-based low-fare air carrier. He earlier held the same
post at Continental Airlines Inc., which TPG bought out of
bankruptcy in 1993.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  