-- Bridge Owner Moroun Joins International Lineup of Billionaires Behind Bars
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-01-13T21:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/bridge-owner-moroun-joins-international-lineup-of-billionaires-behind-bars.html
Manuel “Matty” Moroun was led from
a Detroit courtroom yesterday into rare company: billionaires
who have gone to jail.  The owner of the Ambassador Bridge between Detroit and
 Canada , was jailed for missing a court’s deadlines to build new
bridge approaches. He has been in a two-year dispute with the
state over the $230 million project’s design.  “It’s unusual to see an 84-year-old billionaire carted off
to jail,” said Larry Dubin, law professor at the University of
Detroit Mercy. “It’s not your usual person found in civil
contempt. It’s usually someone who doesn’t have enough money to
make child-support payments.”  Moroun’s 82-year-old bridge is a source of controversy in
Michigan. He spent $4.7 million on a campaign with  television
advertising  against a state plan to build a second Detroit-
Canada bridge about two miles downstream, according to the
 Michigan  Campaign Finance Network. The new span would siphon off
truck traffic from Moroun’s property. The plan, pushed by
Republican Governor  Rick Snyder , died in a Republican-controlled
state Senate committee in October.  Bill Ballenger, publisher of Lansing-based Inside Michigan
Politics, said he “can’t believe” Moroun was jailed with the
provision that the ramp project be finished before he’s
released.  “Either his attorneys were inept, or maybe the judge got a
little overly aggressive,” Ballenger said. “It’s baffling to
the public what’s going on.”  Chicken-Fried Steak  Wayne County Circuit Judge Prentis Edwards also jailed Dan
Stamper, president of the Detroit International Bridge Co.,
which owns the Ambassador Bridge. His and Moroun’s jailing
before a packed courtroom dominated television news in the state
and commanded blaring headlines in its newspapers. The prisoners
wore green fatigues and were offered chicken-fried steak for
dinner their first night in the jail, according to the  Detroit
Free Press .  The judge’s order is “excessive, unwarranted and
outrageous,” Moroun’s son, Matthew Moroun, said in a statement
yesterday. Still Moroun, whose wealth Forbes estimated at $1.7
billion in 2011, joins a roster of seven-figure luminaries who
served time:  Rich and Imprisoned  --  Mikhail Khodorkovsky ,  Russia ’s richest man when he was
arrested on the tarmac of a Siberian airport in 2003, was
convicted of fraud and  tax evasion  in 2005 and again in December
2010 on related charges, in what he calls a politically
motivated campaign. He’s serving a 13-year sentence.  -- Former Sotheby’s Holdings Inc. Chairman A. Alfred Taubman, who was sentenced in April 2002 to one year in federal
prison for conspiring with Christie’s International Plc to fix
commissions on art, antiques, and other valuables. He was 78 at
the time. Taubman was released in June 2003, according to the
U.S. Bureau of Prisons website.  -- Texas billionaire Oscar Wyatt, then 83, was sentenced in
2007 to 12 months and one day in prison for his role in bribing
Iraqi oil officials in the most significant prosecution in the
United Nations oil-for-food case.  -- Raj Rajaratnam, co-founder of hedge fund company Galleon
Group LLC, is serving an 11-year prison sentence for  insider
trading .  --  Huang Guangyu , founder of Gome Electrical Appliances
Holding Ltd. and once  China ’s richest person, is serving 14
years for insider trading and bribery, sentenced at age 41.  Dubin, the law professor, said he was surprised by Edwards’
decision.  “It’s a moment where everyone realizes that being bound by
a court order applies to everyone, whether you’re penniless and
can’t make child support, or you’re a billionaire and can’t
comply with a more substantial court order,” Dubin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  