-- Bullard Says Fed More Effective Than Fiscal Policy in Short Run
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-01-13T18:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/bullard-says-fed-more-effective-than-fiscal-policy-in-short-run.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis 
President  James Bullard  said the political process is “ill-
suited” to making timely decisions to buffer an economic shock
over the short run, and that monetary policy is a better tool.  It is “critical for the nation that Congress gets our
medium- and longer-term fiscal situation” under control,
Bullard said in a conference call with reporters today, before a
speech in St. Louis. Near-term fiscal stimulus steps “are
unlikely to work very well.”  The regional chief, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy
this year, is among Fed officials who say a new round of bond
purchases is unlikely after the  U.S. economy  gained 200,000 jobs
in December. Policy makers are divided over whether to take
additional steps to cut borrowing costs and boost job creation,
with Bullard’s counterparts John C. Williams in San Francisco
and  Charles Evans  of Chicago calling for more stimulus.  Monetary policy has “been appropriate over the last three
years,” Bullard, 50, said before speaking at the Edward Jones
Annual Meeting. He questioned whether coupling fiscal stimulus
measures with monetary accommodation boosts growth, saying
“nothing extra is added” if Fed policy is already effective.  Economic data released since the Fed’s last meeting in
December show the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.5 percent last
month from 8.7 percent in November. The economy grew less than
previously estimated in the third quarter, with gross domestic
product climbing at a 1.8 percent annual rate. That’s down from
the 2 percent initially estimated, Commerce Department figures
showed on Dec. 22.  Next Meeting  Fed officials, who next meet Jan. 24-25 in  Washington , will
for the first time publish projections for the benchmark federal
funds rate and update their forecasts for economic growth,
unemployment and inflation.  Policy makers have held the fed funds rate near zero since
December 2008 and have pledged to keep it there through at least
mid-2013. Any new asset purchases would follow two rounds
totaling $2.3 trillion that lasted from December 2008 until June
2011.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of Arkansas and parts of  Illinois ,
Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri and  Tennessee .  The bank president’s remarks today are based on a paper
titled “Death of a Theory.” In it, he says  monetary policy 
works better than tax and spending changes in protecting the
economy from shocks, even when the target for the overnight
lending rate between banks is close to zero.  Respond to Shocks  The use of tax and spending changes to respond to shocks
over the short run “has run its course,” Bullard said.
“Stabilization policy should be left to the monetary authority,
which can operate effectively even with a near-zero policy
rate,” he said.  Bullard calls on fiscal authorities to focus on the medium-
to longer-term, with a “stable” tax code and government
spending plan that enables businesses and households to prepare
for the future.  Bullard told reporters he is challenging “the notion that
when you hit the zero-bound” with  interest rates , fiscal
stabilization measures become necessary.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  