-- Cameron Says World Will Ensure Strait of Hormuz Stays Open in Iran Dispute
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-01-13T17:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/cameron-says-world-will-ensure-strait-of-hormuz-stays-open-in-iran-dispute.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said he and other members of the international community are
ready to ensure the Strait of Hormuz stays open should Iran
attempt to block it in retaliation for sanctions.  Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Dec. 27
that his nation would block shipments through the strait, the
world’s biggest chokepoint for seaborne oil trade, if sanctions
are imposed over Iran’s nuclear program.  “We are now looking at this whole issue of having an
embargo on Iranian oil to get that regime to think again,”
Cameron told Al Arabiya television in  Riyadh ,  Saudi Arabia ,
where he held talks with  King Abdullah  today. “It is in the
interests of the whole world that those straits are open and I’m
sure if there was any threat to close them the world would come
together and make sure they stayed open.”  Western countries say the Gulf state may be seeking atomic
capability to build nuclear weapons.  Iran  says its program is
for civilian purposes, including power generation. A European
Union embargo is currently likely to be delayed for six months
to allow members to find alternative supplies, according to two
EU officials with knowledge of the talks. It’ll be discussed by
the bloc’s foreign ministers Jan. 23.  Oil dropped to a three-week low on that news, declining as
much as 1.4 percent. Crude for February delivery fell 73 cents,
or 0.7 percent, to $98.37 a barrel at 10:47 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The contract dropped as much as $1.40 to
$97.70, the lowest level since Dec. 21. Oil is headed for a 3.1
percent decline this week.  Temporary Ability  U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Martin Dempsey
said on Jan. 8 that Iran can temporarily choke off the Strait of
Hormuz, through which 17 million barrels of oil pass each day,
the Energy Department estimates. He added that the U.S. would be
able to defeat such a blockade.  The EU ban is likely to include an exemption for Italy, so
crude can be sold to pay off debts to Rome-based  Eni SpA (ENI) ,
Italy’s largest oil company, according to the officials, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private.  A ban on petrochemical products would start sooner, about
three months after EU ministers agree to the measure, one
official said yesterday. Once a decision is made, member states
would be barred from concluding new oil contracts with Iran or
renewing those that are due to expire, while existing deals will
be terminated within six months, according to a second diplomat
today. Long-term contracts constitute the bulk of  Europe ’s
purchases of Iranian oil.  ‘Different Options’  “Work by experts from the 27 member states is in a very
intensive phase,” Maja Kocijancic, a spokeswoman for the
European Commission, said by phone yesterday from Brussels.
“They are looking into different options for restrictive
measures with a view to adoption on Jan. 23.” She declined to
comment on possible phase-in periods or exemptions.  Phasing in the European embargo would satisfy the concern
of nations most dependent on Iranian crude, including  Italy ,
Greece and  Spain , the first EU official said. Those three
nations accounted for 68.5 percent of EU imports from Iran in
2010, according to European Commission data.  Germany ,  France  and the U.K. have been pushing for the
embargo to increase pressure on Iran over its nuclear program,
and it has the support in principle of all member states, the EU
official said yesterday.  ‘Different Path’  “There is a clear threat from Iran in terms of that
country’s attempt to acquire nuclear weapons,” Cameron said.
“I think that would be very bad for the region, very bad for
the world and I think it’s right that all countries across the
world step up the pressure on Iran to take a different path. And
Britain has been leading the way in that regard in the European
Union arguing for sanctions.”  Cameron also urged Russia and  China  to drop their
opposition to United Nations sanctions against Syria and listen
to the  Arab League , which he said was “leading the way” on the
issue.  “President Assad has lost the consent of his people,” he
said. “I would urge the Russians, the Russian government, even
at this late stage, to look really carefully at why it is
proposing to do what it keeps doing in respect to Syria. This is
appalling bloodshed, appalling murder on the streets of Syria.”  International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors will go to
Tehran at the end of the month to discuss  Iran’s nuclear
program , two diplomats with knowledge of the talks said today.  Iran’s willingness to resume talks doesn’t mean it’s ready
to negotiate restrictions on its nuclear program, said Michael
Singh, a former official on the U.S. National Security Council.  Negotiating Delay  “All the signals from the Iranians are not that they’re
now willing to negotiate an end to their nuclear program, but
that they’re not,” said Singh, who is now at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy. “They’re probably hoping to use
talks as a delaying tactic, and to raise the hopes of those in
the international community who think that negotiations can
resolve the issue.”  As Europe weighs its embargo, President  Barack Obama ’s
administration has sent teams worldwide to consult with
countries on managing the supply and demand of oil, according to
an administration official who briefed reporters in  Washington .  Iran, the second largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 3.58 million barrels of
crude a day last month, according to Bloomberg estimates.  OPEC’s other members would be able to make up for a drop in
Iranian oil supply if the EU agrees to an embargo, said  Chakib Khelil , the group’s former president. Even so, prices may
temporarily rally to as high as $200 a barrel on news of any
such blockade, he said today in  London .  “It should be possible to replace, at least, the European
consumption of Iranian oil,” Khelil said in an interview with
 Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 