-- Canadian Stocks Fall on Concern Rating Cuts Will Worsen Crisis
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-01-13T22:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/canadian-stocks-fall-on-concern-s-p-may-cut-euro-region-ratings.html
Canadian stocks  fell, paring a
weekly gain, as the  U.S. dollar  climbed and fuels and metals
dropped on concern that lower credit ratings will worsen
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the country’s second-
biggest energy company by market value, declined 1.2 percent as
crude oil retreated to a three-week low.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) ,
Canada’s largest base-metals and coal producer, decreased 1.6
percent as copper retreated.  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , the
country’s largest railroad, lost 1.3 percent after an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut his rating on the shares.  The  S&P/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  slid 43.26 points, or 0.4
percent, to 12,231.06 in Toronto. The 0.4 percent gain since
Jan. 6 extends the index’s streak of weekly gains to four, the
longest since April.  “People feel there’s going to be a recession in  Europe ,”
David Baskin, president of Baskin Financial Services Inc. in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. The firm manages about
C$440 million ($429 million). “The Greeks still can’t get their
act together. People are still edgy about it.”  The index increased 6.4 percent from Dec. 19 to yesterday
as economic data indicating growth in the U.S. and speculation
 China  may ease monetary policy overshadowed the European debt
crisis. The S&P/TSX fell nine of the 10 months ending in
December as concern that the crisis would limit global economic
growth weakened shares of commodity producers.  Ratings Cut  Stocks slumped as European government officials said S&P
was poised to cut some sovereign debt ratings in the region.
After the close of trading in the U.S. and  Canada , S&P said it
had lowered ratings on  France , Cyprus, Italy, Portugal and Spain
while affirming those of seven countries including  Germany .  Stocks extended their losses after the Institute of
International Finance, which represents  Greece ’s bank creditors,
said talks with the government have halted after failing to
produce a “constructive consolidated response by all parties.”  The euro completed its sixth-straight weekly retreat
against the U.S. dollar, the longest streak since February 2010.  The  S&P/TSX Energy Index (STENRS)  dropped for a third day. Canadian
Natural declined 1.2 percent to C$37.91.  Lower Gas Prices  Birchcliff Energy Ltd. (BIR) , a western Canadian oil and gas
producer, decreased 3.8 percent to C$12.10 after Kurt Molnar, an
analyst at Stifel Financial Corp., cut his rating on the stock
to “hold” from “buy.” Molnar cited lower natural gas prices
in a note to clients. Calfrac Well Services Ltd. dropped 7.6
percent, the biggest decline since Oct. 3, to C$26.49.  Raw-materials companies in the S&P/TSX retreated as base
and precious metals fell. Teck dropped 1.6 percent to C$39.35 as
copper futures declined from a 10-week high.  A gauge of gold stocks in the S&P/TSX fell for the first
time in five days.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest
producer, lost 0.4 percent to C$49.44. AuRico Gold Inc., which
operates in Mexico, slumped 1.6 percent to C$8.77 after saying
“adverse ground conditions” at its Ocampo mine reduced
production.  Lake Shore Gold Corp. retreated 8.6 percent to C$1.39, the
biggest drop in more than a month. The company forecast 2012
production of as much as 100,000 ounces of gold, 30 percent
below Bank of Montreal’s estimate. Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. rose 5.3
percent to C$20.30, the highest price in a month.  Fertilizer Producers  Agrium Inc. rose 4.4 percent to C$79.13, while Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan gained 3.6 percent to C$45.80 as natural gas
fell for a fifth day and the Rosario Cereals Exchange said corn
farmers in Argentina will produce “significantly” less than
forecast in the current growing season.  The biggest Canadian fertilizer producers will benefit from
lower gas prices and higher demand for grains from  South
America , said Don Carson, a New York-based analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group.  The  S&P/TSX Financials Index (STFINL)  declined for the first time in
a week after JPMorgan reported fourth-quarter revenue that
trailed the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
 Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s largest lender by assets,
slipped 1.3 percent to C$52.09.  Canadian National decreased 1.3 percent to C$78.25 after
Thomas R. Wadewitz, an analyst at JPMorgan, cut his rating on
the shares to “underweight” from “neutral.” CN is likely to
raise prices less quickly than its U.S. peers, Wadewitz wrote in
a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  