-- Canadian National Asks Ex-CEO to Reconsider Seeking Job at Rival Railroad
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-01-13T21:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/canadian-national-asks-ex-ceo-to-reconsider-seeking-job-at-rival-railroad.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd.’s (CP) 
largest shareholder,  William Ackman , said his choice for chief
executive officer wouldn’t be hindered from taking the job by
agreements with the competing railroad he previously led.  Hunter Harrison’s former employer, Montreal-based  Canadian
National  Railway Co., said today it asked him to “reconsider”
his interest in the Canadian Pacific position and put Ackman
“on notice to cease any efforts to induce breaches of Mr.
Harrison’s contractual obligations.”  Ackman said in a telephone interview that the law firms
Davies Ward Phillips & Vineberg, in Toronto;  Kirkland & Ellis ,
in  Chicago ; and  Sullivan & Cromwell , in  New York , reviewed
Canadian National’s claims. Harrison’s contract was based in
Illinois, and law firms from that state, New York and  Canada 
were used to ensure thorough analysis, Ackman said.  “Our lawyers have said that CN’s claims here are
‘absolutely frivolous,’” he said.  “We’ve not attempted in any way to induce him to breach
his obligations,” Ackman said. “Hunter has a confidentiality
agreement with  Canadian National (CNR)  that prevents him from
disclosing confidential information, and he has not done so, nor
have we asked him to.”  Mark Hallman, a Canadian National spokesman, declined to
comment beyond the company’s statement. Harrison didn’t
immediately respond to a voicemail and e-mail seeking comment.  Agreement Terms  Harrison’s non-compete agreement with Canadian National,
which lasted for two years after his retirement, expired on
Dec. 31. Canadian National, the nation’s largest railroad, said
a separate condition attached to retirement and pension
arrangements required Harrison not to compete with the company
for five years through December 2014.  “It’s amazing to me that a company of Canadian National’s
track record would stoop so low and feel so threatened by
someone of Hunter’s talents joining another railroad,” Ackman
said. “I think it’s embarrassing for CN.”  Canadian Pacific  rose 1 percent to C$70.77 at the close in
Toronto, its highest since May 2008. Canadian National declined
1.3 percent to C$78.25.  Ackman, the founder of New York-based Pershing Square
Capital Management LP, invests in companies he deems undervalued
and seeks changes to improve shareholder returns. He disclosed
his stake in Calgary-based Canadian Pacific in late October and
has put naming Harrison as CEO at the center of his turnaround
plan for the railroad.  ‘Long Term’  Harrison said earlier this week that he is ready “to be in
there for the long term,” at Canadian Pacific, the country’s
second-biggest railroad, and that a tenure of three to five
years “is reasonable.”  Canadian Pacific Chairman John Cleghorn rebuffed Ackman’s
push to replace Green with Harrison in a letter released Jan. 9.
Ackman told Bloomberg News that day he would seek a proxy fight
and that Harrison would be CEO “once we are successful.”  Harrison more than tripled  net income  during seven years
running Canadian National, using an approach known as precision
railroading, before retiring in 2009.  He declined to say in an interview this week how long it
might take for Canadian Pacific boost earnings, pointing to his
tenure at Canadian National and  Illinois  Central Corp., which
Canadian National bought in 1998.  When Harrison retired from Canadian National, the operating
ratio, a measure of efficiency, had been cut to 67.3 from 76 at
the end of 2002, filings show. Canadian Pacific’s ratio was 75.8
in 2011’s third quarter, and 77.6 for all of 2010, according to
Bloomberg Industries data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  