-- Canadian Dollar Weakens as S&P France Downgrade Fuels Debt-Crisis Concern
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-13T22:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/canadian-dollar-climbs-against-euro-as-italy-s-debt-auction-dims-optimism.html
Canada’s dollar depreciated against
its U.S. counterpart as  Standard & Poor’s  reduced  France ’s top
sovereign-debt rating, eroding investor demand for riskier
assets.  The currency strengthened against the euro and advanced 0.5
percent on the week against the greenback. Statistics Canada
reported the nation’s trade deficit swung to a surplus in
November.  “Everything is a sideshow to Europe,”  Kathy Lien ,
director of currency research at the online currency trader GFT
Forex, said by phone from  New York . “You’re seeing a risk-off
move across the board.”  The currency, nicknamed the loonie, fell 0.4 percent to
C$1.0232 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. Toronto time. One Canadian
dollar buys 97.74 U.S. cents. It rose 0.7 percent to C$1.2974
against the euro.  S&P stripped France and  Austria  of their top credit ratings
in a swathe of downgrades that left  Germany  with the euro area’s
only stable AAA grade, hindering leaders’ efforts to stem the
region’s fiscal crisis.  France and Austria were cut one level to AA+ from AAA and
face the risk of further reductions, the rating company said in
 Frankfurt  today. While Finland, the Netherlands and Luxembourg
kept their AAA ratings, they were put on negative watch. Spain
and Italy were also downgraded. The first gauge of the report’s
impact will come on Jan. 16 when France sells as much as 8.7
billion euros ($11 billion) in bills.  Yield Curve  Canadian 10-year government bonds advanced, pushing the
yield down six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.92
percent. The 3.25 percent securities maturing in June 2021 rose
50 cents to C$111.35.  The difference in spread between two- and 10-year
 government bonds  narrowed to 97 basis points, the least, or
flattest, since September 2008. A flatter  yield curve  generally
indicates a worsening economic outlook.  The 10-year yield touched 1.837 percent on Dec. 16, the
lowest level in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1989.
The  premium  to equivalent-maturity U.S. Treasuries is six basis
points, compared with 32 basis points on Sept. 5, the most in
2011.  Futures traders increased their bets the Canadian dollar
will decline against the greenback, figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
28,649 on Jan. 10, compared with net shorts of 23,371 a week
earlier.  Unexpected Surplus  Canada  reported an unexpected surplus as exports of energy
and automobiles rose while imports fell. Statistics Canada said
the nation ran a surplus of C$1.07 billion ($1.05 billion).
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a C$500 million
deficit, based on the median of 19 responses.  The trade report is the last major piece of economic data
before the central bank’s Jan. 17 interest-rate decision.
Governor  Mark Carney  will probably keep the policy interest rate
at 1 percent, where it has been since September 2010, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Canadian provinces are taking advantage of record-low
borrowing costs to raise funding amid increasing concern the
economic outlook may weaken and the risk of credit-rating
downgrades will climb.  Borrowing Costs  Ontario,  Quebec , Manitoba and Nova Scotia sold C$1.8
billion of bonds this week, compared with average weekly
domestic issuance of C$1.2 billion in 2011, according to
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce data. Yields on the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Canadian Provincial and Municipal Index
were 2.52 percent yesterday, compared with 2.36 percent on Dec.
19, the lowest since at least 1992.  The provinces are benefiting as government-bond  yields 
trade at almost record lows as the European-debt crisis dents
consumer and corporate confidence, driving demand for safety.
Moody’s Investors Service lowered its outlook for Ontario to
“negative” last month, citing a “softening economic
outlook,” while Nova Scotia cut its gross domestic product
forecasts for this year and next.  “There’s extreme uncertainty as it relates to the outlook
not only for  Europe  but for  North America  and some specific
provincial economies is as well,” Warren Lovely, a government-
bond strategist at CIBC, said by phone from Toronto. “There are
concerns about the ability of some provinces to successfully
tackle deficits and put spending on a sustainable footing. As a
result there are some risks to ratings.”  The loonie gained 1.2 percent during the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The U.S. dollar was
little changed and the euro fell 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  