-- Carmakers Tout Audio Facebook as Agencies Seek Texting Curb
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-01-13T12:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/carmakers-tout-audio-facebook-as-agencies-seek-texting-curb-1-.html
As  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  promotes new
in-car technology letting drivers make restaurant reservations
on  OpenTable.com (OPEN)  and use Bing to search the Internet, regulators
are still seeking to discourage mobile-phone use.  Audible Facebook updates and steering-wheel controls that
let drivers buy movie tickets and check stock prices went on
display at the International Consumer Electronics Show in  Las
Vegas  and North American International Auto Show in  Detroit  this
week.  Daimler AG (DAI)  is developing technology to let customers
summon road information on the windshield with a wave of the
hand.  “People are pretty determined to be connected in their
vehicles as they are everywhere else,” said  Jeremy Anwyl , vice
chairman of auto researcher Edmunds.com. “You can regulate all
you want. I’m not sure for a lot of consumers, it’s going to
make a lot of difference.”  National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator  David Strickland  told analysts about how his 15-year-old triplet
godchildren text each other while sitting at the table.
Reconciling the “growing consumer class of young people that
don’t have a notion of not being connected” with manufacturers’
efforts to capture the new market and with safety rules is
“incredibly difficult,” he said this week in Detroit.  Strickland’s agency is working to release guidelines this
year for incorporating in-vehicle technologies.  Driver Deaths  In 2010, 3,092 deaths, or 9.4 percent of road fatalities,
were related to driver distraction, NHTSA said in December.  This year, 5.8 million smartphone and embedded connectivity
units will be fitted to new cars and light trucks in North
America, according to  QUBE , part of automotive data provider
just-auto.com. That’s a 29 percent increase from 2011, when 4.5
million new vehicles had such technology, QUBE said. By 2026,
all vehicles sold in  North America  and Japan will have the
technology, the Bromsgrove, England-based company forecasts.  “They’re all looking to personalize the services you
receive in the vehicle,” Vanessa Scholfield, a telematics and
connected vehicle technology analyst for QUBE, said in a phone
interview.  The  National Transportation Safety Board , which can’t make
rules or enforce them, last month recommended all 50 states ban
both handheld and handsfree phone use by drivers after finishing
a probe into a Missouri chain-reaction crash caused by a 19-
year-old driver who sent or received 11  text messages  in the 13
minutes before impact. The recommendation applies to mobile
devices, not built-in systems.  U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, whose agency has
pushed states to ban texting and handheld phone use while
driving, in 2010 called for more research on “other
distractions” including Bluetooth-enabled hands-free calls and
in-car communications systems.  Slow Regulation  The so-called infotainment systems that are becoming more
prevalent in vehicles require more research, NTSB Chairman
 Deborah Hersman  said. The agency plans to hold a forum this year
to look at driver distractions, she said.  “The challenge for regulators is that they’re never going
to be able to keep up and pass standards that address the next
big thing in terms of technology,” Hersman said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “Regulation is slow.”  Hersman said she rode in Google’s autonomous vehicle last
year and that cars that control themselves may be the way to
allow drivers to safely text and surf the Web.  Toyota, based in Toyota City,  Japan , featured the new
Entune system that links with users’ smart phones at the Detroit
auto show. The company is offering the technology, which is
debuting in the Camry and the hybrid Prius, free to users for
the first three years.  ‘Curate the Environment’  “We realize that separating the driver from their mobile
device is virtually impossible now,” Jon Bucci, Toyota vice
president for advanced technology development, said in an
interview in Detroit. “What we’re trying to do is curate the
environment.”  Toyota limits the applications it includes on Entune and
Facebook isn’t included, Bucci said. “You can’t play Farmville
or share photos of friends,” he said.  To mitigate driver distraction, the touch screen becomes
inaccessible once the car starts moving, said Carly Schaffner, a
Toyota spokeswoman. The driver can then use the alternate
controls from the steering wheel or using the voice recognition
system, she said.  ‘Slippery Slope’  Restricting what drivers should and shouldn’t do behind the
wheel is “a slippery slope,” said  Christopher King , a Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. telecommunications analyst in Baltimore. “It’s
difficult to argue that anyone should be using Facebook while
driving a car. But at some level, glancing down at a dashboard
is part of driving whether it’s checking speed or air
conditioning or the radio.”  Daimler is developing gesture-recognition technology to let
drivers access information from the Web using their hands,
Chairman Dieter Zetsche said at the consumer-electronics show.
Mercedes’s latest in-car communications system, called mbrace2,
gives drivers access to applications including Facebook, Yelp!
and stock prices, he said.  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s announcements on in-car technology focused
on voice recognition, which the company said will help drivers
keep their hands safely on the wheel. A new service called Sync
AppLink is a way for drivers to call up music and news using
their voice and smartphone.  Voice Recognition  The automaker will probably stick to voice recognition,
rather than going into gesture recognition or touch pads, Paul Mascarenas, Ford’s chief technical officer, said in an interview
at the electronics show.  The carmaker, based in Dearborn,  Michigan , has held
discussions with Facebook on how the social network could be
used in the car, according to Mascarenas. While Ford is looking
at ways your Facebook friends could help make recommendations on
where to go or what music to listen to, it would be too
distracting to offer the website’s full features, he said.  “Do you want to be browsing your friends’ latest photos,
writing on their wall and stuff?” Mascarenas asked. “I think
that’s where you draw the line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  