-- Cattle Futures Rise to a Record as ‘Spectacular’ Demand Boosts Beef Costs
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-01-13T19:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/cattle-futures-rise-to-record-as-spectacular-demand-boosts-beef-expenses.html
Cattle futures rose as animal
supplies dwindled in the U.S. and global beef demand climbed,
boosting meat costs for restaurants including  Sonic Corp. (SONC) , a
hamburger chain.  In the U.S., consumers will pay as much as 5 percent more
for  beef  this year, more than other food group except seafood,
after the meat rose as much as 10 percent last year, the
government has estimated. The cattle herd was the smallest since
at least 1973 as of July 1 after a drought in Texas cut
supplies. Beef  exports  surged 25 percent in the 10 months ended
Oct. 31 from a year earlier.  Rising global demand and the shrinking herd in the U.S.,
the world’s largest beef producer, spurred a 12 percent increase
in cattle futures last year, the fifth-biggest gain among
components in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24  raw
materials . Retail beef reached an all-time high in November,
signaling higher costs for Oklahoma City-based Sonic and  Ruth’s
Hospitality Group Inc. (RUTH) , a steakhouse owner.  “Of all the commodities, the cattle are one that you
really are going to have over time tighter supplies,”  Don Roose , the president of U.S. Commodities Inc., said in a
telephone interview from  West Des Moines ,  Iowa . “The demand has
been pretty strong on the export front.”  Cattle futures for April delivery climbed 0.9 percent to
close at $1.264 a pound at 1 p.m. on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. After the settlement, the price reached $1.2645 in
electronic trading, the highest for a most-active contract since
the commodity began trading on the CME in 1964.  Exports Jump  Beef-export sales in the four weeks ended Jan. 5 climbed 19
percent from a year earlier, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . Retail prices rose to a record $4.504 a pound in
November, the most-recent government data show.  Beef is a “challenge” for Ruth’s Hospitality Group, the
Heathrow, Florida-based owner of upscale steakhouses, Chief
Financial Officer Arne Haak said yesterday in a presentation.
Sonic, a drive-in chain, said that beef was among its “primary
cost drivers” in the quarter ended Nov. 30.  Meatpackers slaughtered 512,000 head of cattle this week
through yesterday, up 4.1 percent from a year earlier, USDA data
show. Beef processors seeking spot deliveries paid $1.2366 a
pound on average for the animals this week, up 2.1 percent from
last week.  ‘Upper Hand’  “The packers are still going to want to buy cattle,”  Lane Broadbent , a vice president at KIS Futures Inc. in  Oklahoma
City , said in a telephone interview. “It looks like the sellers
have got the upper hand here. It’s been pretty spectacular that
we’ve had demand show up like we’ve had.”  Feeder-cattle futures for March settlement gained 0.4
percent to $1.52375 a pound on the CME. Earlier, the price
reached a record $1.52775.  Feedlots buy year-old animals that weigh 500 pounds (227
kilograms) to 800 pounds, called feeders. The cattle are
fattened on corn for about four to five months until they weigh
about 1,200 pounds, when they are sold to meatpackers.  “Feedlots, as they’re buying new replacements, they’re
finding sharply lower supplies and are paying sharply higher
prices,”  Rich Nelson , the director of research at Allendale
Inc. in McHenry,  Illinois , said in a telephone interview. “This
supply issue is now showing up, and we have to deal with it.”  Hog futures for April settlement rose 0.5 percent to 87.05
cents a pound in  Chicago . Earlier, the price reached 87.525
cents, the highest for the most-active contract since Dec. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  