-- Tebow May Score CBS Another Record NFL Audience in Broncos-Patriots Game
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-01-13T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/cbs-said-to-be-near-agreement-to-keep-david-letterman-on-air-through-2014.html
After the Denver Broncos,  CBS (CBS)  may be
the biggest beneficiary of Tim Tebow-mania.  Tebow, who has helped the Broncos to five fourth-quarter
comeback wins since taking over as starting quarterback midway
through the National Football League season, may draw record
audiences again for CBS tomorrow, when his team faces the  New
England Patriots  in the second round of the playoffs.  Denver’s 29-23 overtime victory over the favored Pittsburgh
Steelers averaged 42.4 million viewers on CBS, a wild-card
playoff game record and a windfall for sponsors such as Pepsi.
That put the Broncos two wins away from their first Super Bowl
in 13 years. CBS Corp., with the biggest regular-season ratings
drop among broadcasters, is beating its rivals in the playoffs.  “There’s nothing quite equal to Tebow-mania,”  Dan
Dierdorf , a CBS NFL analyst and former offensive lineman, said
in an interview. “All I hear on ESPN and other sports channels
is  Tim Tebow . I’ve had to hit the mute button to get away from
it all.”  Since winning the 2007 Heisman Trophy as college football’s
top player, Tebow has become a regular topic on ESPN’s
“SportsCenter” and talk radio. The quarterback, whose father
is a Baptist pastor, appeared with his mother in a 2010  Super
Bowl   commercial  on CBS for Focus on the Family, which opposes
abortion.  The 24-year-old’s practice of kneeling and saying a brief
prayer after victories has been nicknamed “Tebowing,” which
has led to an  Internet  craze.  Facing Brady  Tebow and the Broncos are 13 1/2-point underdogs to New
England, which had the American Football Conference’s best
regular-season record at 13-3. If they stay close to the
Patriots and quarterback Tom Brady, the audience may exceed last
weekend’s total.  “Certainly if the game is as exciting as the Broncos-
Steelers last weekend it will be even a larger number,” said
 Brad Adgate , research director at the New York-based advertising
company  Horizon Media  Inc. “The longer people tune in, the
higher the overall audience.”  The Broncos had a 16-7 lead against the Patriots in their
Dec. 18 meeting in Denver before committing three second-quarter
turnovers and losing 41-23, snapping a six-game winning streak.  Audiences for regular-season football games on the CBS
network,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN slid 2.1 percent from a year earlier, according to
Nielsen Co. data supplied by Horizon Media. ESPN, on cable, saw
its audience shrink almost 10 percent.  CBS, which televises smaller-market AFC teams, saw its
audience decline 1.5 percent to an average 18.4 million viewers
a game, a bigger drop than the other over-the-air networks, Fox
and NBC, Horizon said. Last weekend’s Broncos game drew 49
percent more viewers than the year-earlier match-up, CBS said.  Higher Rates  Advertising rates for NFL playoff games are slightly higher
than the regular season, Adgate said. The biggest regular-season
advertisers and NFL sponsors, including Pepsi, Coors Light,  Bud
Light , Visa, General Motors, Hyundai, Verizon and Bank of
America, gain more spots than would be available on the open
market, he said.  “Marketers love NFL playoff games because nothing else on
TV brings in such as sizable and live audiences,” Adgate said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  