-- Chelsea Readies Bid for Lille’s Eden Hazard, Sun Reports: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-01-13T10:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/chelsea-readies-bid-for-lille-s-eden-hazard-sun-reports-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Hazard Bid  Chelsea is preparing a 25 million-pound ($38.4 million) bid
for Lille midfielder Eden Hazard after the season,  the Sun said.   The 21-year-old’s club wants 33 million pounds for the
player, who’s also been followed by Arsenal, Juventus, Real
Madrid and  Bayern Munich , the newspaper said.  Hazard has scored 7 times in 19 games, the newspaper said.  Bolton’s Defense  Bolton will sign New York Red Bulls defender Tim Ream for
2.6 million pounds to replace Gary Cahill, who’s moving to
Chelsea,  the Telegraph said.   The 24-year-old has played for the U.S. national team seven
times, and Bolton manager Owen Coyle said several other Premier
League clubs are interested in hiring him, the newspaper said.  Jol on Hughes  Fulham manager  Martin Jol  questioned  Mark Hughes ’ ambition
after Hughes agreed to coach Queens Park Rangers,  the Daily Mail
said.   Hughes quit Fulham after last season, saying the club
lacked ambition and joined QPR this week after the firing of
 Neil Warnock . Jol, who replaced Hughes at Fulham, said spending
on players isn’t the same as ambition, the Mail reported.  Third-Time Lucky?  Hughes is looking to sign  Roque Santa Cruz  for a third time
to improve QPR’s attack,  the Daily Mirror said.   The manager brought the player to Blackburn and Manchester
City, which has loaned Santa Cruz to Real Betis in Spain, the
newspaper said. The striker has scored 5 goals in 20 games this
season, and City would probably be willing to pay some of his
salary if he is loaned to QPR, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 