-- Chilean Swaps Tumble as New Central Banker Surprises Traders With Rate Cut
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-01-13T17:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/chile-s-surprise-rate-cut-signals-prices-may-ease-as-gdp-slows.html
Chilean  interest-rate  swaps fell the
most in three months and the peso snapped a three-day winning
streak after central bank President Rodrigo Vergara surprised
traders by cutting rates a month after taking office.  The one-year swap, or the cost of locking in a fixed
interest rate, fell 17 basis points, the most since Oct. 4, to
4.48 percent while the peso slid 0.7 percent to 503.46 per  U.S.
dollar . Breakeven inflation rates fell the most since November.  The central bank cut the overnight rate by a quarter-point
to 5 percent yesterday, signaling Vergara and his colleagues
expect last month’s inflation surge to fade as economic growth
slows. Only four of 20 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg  had
predicted a reduction. The rest forecast no change.  “The decision shows that the central bank feels very
comfortable about the inflation outlook; that it believes
economic growth is definitely decelerating,” said Felipe Hernandez, an analyst at RBS Securities Inc.  With the second-highest borrowing costs among major Latin
American countries that target a benchmark rate, Chile is
joining  Brazil  in easing monetary policy to shore up growth as
the global economy weakens.  The four-member policy board played down inflation in
yesterday’s decision, attributing the 0.6 percent jump in
 consumer prices  in December to perishable goods and the peso’s
decline against the dollar late last year. The peso slumped 11
percent in the last four months of 2011.  Inflation Expectations  “We’re going to have a marginal fall in swap rates and the
 exchange rate ,” said Jorge Selaive, chief economist at Banco de
Credito & Inversiones in Santiago. “I do expect a bigger impact
on inflation expectations for the year.”  Swap rates  and inflation expectations had surged after the
Jan. 6 inflation report that exceeded the bank’s target as
traders bet policy makers would leave borrowing costs unchanged.  The three-month breakeven rate, a measure of annual
inflation expectations priced into the swaps market, fell 18
basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 3.03 percent today.
Six-month breakeven slid 10 basis points to 2.98 percent while
the six-month swap dropped 24 basis points to 4.60 percent.  “This is a proactive step,” Marcelo Salomon, co-head of
 Latin America  at Barclays Plc, said from  New York . “The big
question that’s on everybody’s mind now is: How big of a cycle
is this? Our view is they’re going to do a gradual adjustment
and play it meeting-by-meeting.”  ‘Great Challenge’  Barclays, which forecast yesterday’s cut, estimates the
bank may reduce rates by another 75 basis points. Bice
Inversiones forecasts three cuts of a quarter-point each through
March, the Santiago-based investment services company’s chief
economist Cristobal Doberti said in a telephone interview after
correctly forecasting the bank’s decision.  Elsewhere in the region, Peru yesterday kept its benchmark
rate at 4.25 percent for an eighth month. Brazil has been the
most aggressive in the region in cutting borrowing costs,
lowering its benchmark rate by 150 basis points since August to
11 percent.  Chile’s economy  will expand 4 percent in December from the
year earlier, matching growth rate posted in November, while
annual expansion will moderate to 4 percent from 6.2 percent in
2011, according to economists in the central bank’s Jan. 10
poll.  ‘Neutralizing’  BCI’s Selaive said traders would have reacted more to the
surprise rate cut if not for “neutralizing” comments in the
bank’s accompanying statement.  “December’s headline and core inflation was higher than
expected due to the prices of perishables and other foods,” the
bank said in yesterday’s statement. “Inflation expectations
remain near the target.”  Chile ’s Finance Minister Felipe Larrain, a non-voting
participant of central bank meetings, last week told reporters a
rate reduction would be “reasonable” as  Europe ’s debt crisis
worsens. The price of copper, Chile’s largest export, declined
21 percent last year and industrial production in October fell
for the first time since the aftermath of the 8.8-magnitude
earthquake in February 2010.  “There are a lot of short-term factors,” Larrain told an
economic forum today in Santiago about December inflation.
“That is shown in the central bank’s actions yesterday, where
there was a judgment on whether or not it was short term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net 
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  