-- Child Labor for Victoria’s Secret Cotton Examined by U.S.
-- B y   C a m   S i m p s o n ,   E k o w   D o n t o h   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-01-13T19:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/child-labor-for-fair-trade-cotton-probed-by-u-s-investigators.html
U.S. investigators are conducting a
preliminary inquiry into forced child labor used in an organic
and fair-trade cotton program that supplies the American
lingerie retailer Victoria’s Secret, a federal law enforcement
official confirmed this week.  Victoria’s Secret’s parent company,  Limited Brands (LTD)  Inc.,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that it continues “to
take this matter very seriously as we do not tolerate child
labor.” Those practices were disclosed in a Dec. 15 Bloomberg
News report about the program the company buys from in Burkina
Faso. Fairtrade International, the Bonn-based organization that
certified the cotton, said in a  statement  last week that it has
“prioritised further training on child labour and child
protection for its members” beginning in early 2012.  At the same time, both Fairtrade and the company have
disputed elements of the story. Bloomberg News stands by its
reporting. (To learn how the piece was researched,  click here .)  While Fairtrade quietly removed from its website several
initial assertions about the story, the organization and
Columbus, Ohio-based Limited Brands say their own inquiries show
the girl at the center of it picks vegetables, not fair-
trade  cotton , and is an adult.  Dead Girl’s Certificate  Yet a purported birth certificate cited as evidence names a
deceased older sister of the 13-year-old girl, Clarisse Kambire,
who adopted the name after her sibling died more than a decade
ago, according to their parents. Bloomberg also confirmed
through several sources before publication that the surviving
child picks cotton for  Burkina Faso ’s fair-trade and organic
program.  There have been no allegations that Victoria’s Secret was
aware of forced child labor. The company has contracted through
a supplier to buy about 600 metric tons of fair-trade fiber
annually from Burkina Faso.  Even if a full investigation is done and allegations of
forced labor are proven, there are important exceptions that can
protect companies against U.S. government sanctions. If the
content in a product suspected to have been made with forced
labor doesn’t give it a competitive advantage, the merchandise
can be exempted from the law.  Bloomberg reported last month on the use of child labor in
the Burkina Faso program, focusing on the plight of so-called
foster children who are kept out of school and forced to work
the fields. Their potential vulnerability on fair-trade farms
across the country was highlighted in a 2008 unpublished study
commissioned by the program’s sponsors in Burkina Faso.
Victoria’s Secret has said it never saw the report.  Homeland Security  Inquiry  The U.S. government’s preliminary inquiry is being done by
the ICE Homeland Security Investigations division, which is part
of the Department of Homeland Security, according to a law
enforcement official who spoke on the condition of anonymity
because he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly on such matters.  The department is responsible for enforcing Section 307 of
the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, a 1930 law banning the importation
of goods manufactured by forced labor. Those powers were
strengthened by a 1999 executive order and anti-human
trafficking laws passed in 2005 and 2008. The government can
seize goods and impose fines.  It’s difficult to get the evidence to build forced-labor
cases because other countries often don’t allow U.S.
investigators to tour factories that are suspected of using
forced labor, said Rachelle Jackson, a senior director at UL
Responsible Sourcing. The Los Angeles-based organization
inspects plants for U.S. and European companies.  Cooperation Key  A federal prosecutor said that getting another country’s
cooperation was key to pursuing allegations.  “We need the permission of the host country before we can
use investigative techniques” there, said James McMahon, who as
an assistant U.S. attorney in  New Jersey  successfully prosecuted
a company connected to products made with Chinese prison labor.  The dearth of successful cases shows the law should be
strengthened, said Karen Stauss, director of programs at Free
the Slaves, a Washington-based advocacy group. Efforts to close
loopholes so far have failed in Congress because of resistance
to creating more regulations for businesses, she said.  “There seems to be no political will to tighten it up,”
Stauss said in an interview.  Burkinabe Cotton Banned  Under regulations separate from those being examined by
homeland security, the U.S. Department of Labor had determined
the problem of forced child labor in Burkina Faso’s cotton
sector was serious enough to ban its fiber from the federal
government’s procurement system. It’s one of just 29 products
from a total of 21 countries that U.S. agencies are forbidden
from buying under those rules.  Victoria’s Secret executives have said their contract to
buy cotton in Burkina Faso broke new ground by dealing directly
with farmers. They have also said the program benefits farmers
across the country, especially women, and that social premiums
paid by the company help deliver clean water.  Since 2007, the company has been one of the top customers
of the nation’s fair-trade and organic cotton program. The
lingerie maker blends the fiber into millions of pairs of
underwear, Lori Greeley, chief executive officer of Victoria’s
Secret Stores, told a Wharton School publication last March.
Earlier, the company had used cotton from the program to produce
an all-organic clothing line sold to customers with the promise
that garments were “Good for women” and “Good for the
children who depend on them.”  No Promises  Though Fairtrade International says it makes no promises
about products it certifies, including the cotton Victoria’s
Secret purchases, its  website states  that under its principles
“forced labour and child labour is prohibited.”  Fairtrade officials declined to say what, if any, specific
safeguards the organization had taken regarding child labor in
Burkina Faso in light of the serious human-rights abuses cited
by the U.S. government in the cotton sector.  Fairtrade’s then-chief executive, Rob Cameron, resigned
within one week of publication of Bloomberg’s Dec. 15 story. At
the time, a spokeswoman said his departure wasn’t related to the
article.  Bloomberg’s report was centered on the Burkinabe village of
Benvar, where there are fewer than 20 organic producers this
season. Since publication, individuals identified by local
producers as representatives of the national farmers’
federation, which runs the program and is certified by
Fairtrade, visited Benvar. They intimidated the producers and
warned children not to speak to outsiders, according to farmers
and village elders interviewed in person and by telephone since
late December. The representatives also threatened a Bloomberg
reporter with arrest and physical harm.  Threats Against Farmers  When asked if Fairtrade was aware of threats made against
producers in Benvar and a Bloomberg journalist, Reykia Fick, a
Fairtrade spokeswoman, declined to comment.  One farmer interviewed about the visits to Benvar is the
man who forced Clarisse Kambire to work in his organic and fair-
trade cotton plot. Throughout Bloomberg’s reporting in and
around his village during September, October, November and
December, the man identified himself as Victorien Kambire. In
the Dec. 15 article, Bloomberg decided to use the name listed on
the illiterate farmer’s national Burkinabe identity card,
Victorien Kamboule, because that is the only official document
in his possession containing his name.  Fair-Trade Confirmation  Bloomberg confirmed cotton from the field where he and
 Clarisse  worked was part of Burkina Faso’s organic and fair
trade program in recorded interviews in September and November
with Victorien Kambire; with a member of the Benvar organic and
fair-trade cooperative’s audit committee in an 89-minute
interview recorded Nov. 7; and in a recorded interview in early
December with Alexandre Somda, president of the Benvar organic
and fair-trade cooperative.  In his interview, Somda also detailed how his cooperative
had local seamstresses make green flags for its members to fly
in each of their plots. Bloomberg journalists also photographed
the flag in November during the harvest.  In a Dec. 27 interview with Bloomberg, Victorien Kambire
said representatives of the growers union -- known by its French
initials UNPCB -- began arriving in the village within a few
days of the article’s publication and threatened to withhold
payment for this year’s organic and fair-trade harvest. The
cotton provides most, if not all, of the cash farmers in the
program need to live. Another farmer in the group and a local
leader corroborated those threats.  ‘Stop It’  One child laborer in the village said in a Dec. 26
interview that members of a delegation indentified by farmers as
UNPCB officials warned: “Do not give out information to
strangers. Stop it. Do not interact or share information with
visitors.”  Victorien Kambire said he learned from someone present at
one meeting that a UNPCB representative had mistranslated his
words from the native Dagara and had “said totally different
things that will suit him.”  A local leader interviewed by Bloomberg said, “There is
fear in everybody now, as a result of these visits by the
officials.”  In a telephone call Dec. 27, the  UNPCB ’s regional chief for
the organic and fair-trade cotton program, Mande Diallo, said he
had influence in Burkina Faso and told a Bloomberg reporter who
had been visiting the village that he was sending the police to
have the journalist arrested. In a follow-up call, Diallo said
he was withdrawing his threat to have the journalist and a
translator arrested, but that they should never return to
Benvar. Doing so, he said, “would be at your own peril.”  Response from Growers Union  Karim Traore, head of the UNPCB, said he was unaware that
representatives of his group went to Benvar and threatened
producers.  “Maybe there were some local people who did that, I don’t
know, but there weren’t any instructions from the UNPCB,”
Traore said in a telephone interview yesterday. “There weren’t
people from the UNPCB who went to threaten producers or tell
children not to talk to outsiders.”  Fairtrade International, the world’s largest labeler of
goods marketed for the benefit of small-scale producers in
 emerging markets , said in a statement Jan. 3 that it conducted
an investigation of Bloomberg’s Dec. 15 story by traveling to
Benvar with “leading officials” of the UNPCB, the group whose
fair-trade practices it is supposed to audit.  Girl’s Age Disputed  Fairtrade said in its Jan. 3 statement that a child from
Benvar profiled by Bloomberg isn’t under 18 and is therefore not
a child under international standards. “We have seen her birth
certificate and corroborated her age with school records,”  it
said . In an undated  statement  posted on its website, Limited
Brands said the girl was a 21 year-old-woman.  Fairtrade officials declined to provide documents cited in
the group’s statement. A copy of a purported birth certificate
given to Bloomberg lists the name of a girl who died in  Ivory
Coast  more than a decade ago, according to separate interviews
with both of the now-divorced parents, including one recorded
with the mother more than 10 weeks prior to publication, and
follow-up interviews by telephone this week.  The parents also said there is no birth record for the girl
profiled by Bloomberg, which is a common problem across West
Africa, according to the  United Nations Children’s Fund , or
Unicef. Prior to publication of the article, the girl and five
independent sources told Bloomberg she was 13. One, Moussa
Kiemtore, is the headmaster of the primary school the girl
briefly attended during the 2008-2009 school year before she was
withdrawn by Victorien Kambire.  School Records  Fairtrade International said after publication that it had
determined through school records that Clarisse was an adult.
But Kiemtore said in an interview in his office Sept. 30 that
the school’s official estimate of her birth year was recorded as
1998. He made the statement based on his review of a school
roster he removed from a storage cabinet in his office while
Bloomberg was present. He also said Clarisse had no birth
certificate when she came from Ivory Coast in 2008.  Fairtrade and Limited Brands didn’t dispute details of two
other foster children named in the article -- boys who are 10
and 12. They were kept out of school and forced to work in an
organic and fair-trade cotton farm next to the one where
Clarisse worked.  In addition to the reporting Bloomberg did to confirm her
farmer’s participation in the organic and fair-trade program,
Bloomberg journalists witnessed, photographed and videotaped
hours of the girl’s work in the organic and fair-trade cotton
plot during four separate days of the first week of the harvest,
which started Nov. 9.  Bloomberg also extensively documented her work in organic
and fair-trade cotton through interviews with the girl and her
relatives in September, October and November. This included 12
separate and recorded interviews with her during those months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cam Simpson in London at 
 csimpson13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Blau in  Washington  at 
 Rblau1@bloomberg.net . 