-- China Money-Market Rate Jumps Most in Three Months on Holiday Cash Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-13T09:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/china-money-market-rate-jumps-most-in-a-week-as-holiday-cash-demand-rises.html
China ’s money-market rate rose the
most in three months on speculation cash demand will increase
before the Lunar New Year holiday.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, also climbed as swaps traders reined in
expectations for interest-rate cuts in the world’s second-
largest economy. The central bank added a net 73 billion yuan
($11.6 billion) of capital to the financial system in the past
five days, after pumping in 51 billion yuan last week, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Cash supply will be even tighter next week,” said Peng Hao, a bond analyst at Fudian Bank Co. in Kunming, capital of
the southern Yunnan province. “The shortage will ease after the
Lunar New Year holiday,” which runs from Jan. 23 to Jan. 27.  The repo rate surged 72 basis points, or 0.72 percentage
point, to 4.90 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to
a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. That’s the biggest increase since Sept. 27. It rose 59
basis points during the week.  Two-year swap contracts reflect bets the People’s Bank of
China will lower its benchmark one-year  deposit rate  to about
2.75 percent from 3.50 percent in the coming 12 months, after
indicating one percentage point of reductions at the start of
the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors have adjusted their rate-cut expectations
because  China’s economy  is more stable than anticipated,” said
Sheng Hongqing, chief economic analyst in the financial markets
department of China Everbright Bank Co. in Beijing. “Also, the
risks of a rebound in inflation can’t be ignored.”  The yield on the 3.99 percent government bonds due June
2021 rose one basis point to 3.41 percent today and was little
changed from a week ago, according to the Interbank Funding
Center.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Simon Harvey,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 