-- China Southern Slides as N.Y. Index Trims Gains: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-01-13T18:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/china-southern-slides-as-new-york-index-trims-weekly-gain-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  in the U.S. tumbled,
trimming their advance in the week, as the worsening debt crisis
in  Europe  erodes the outlook for Asia’s fastest growing economy
and diminishes the appeal of the nation’s assets.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  slumped 1.3 percent to
99.02 as of 12:57 p.m. New York time, reducing its gain this
week to 0.5 percent.  China Southern Airlines Co. (ZNH)  plummeted the
most in two months, trading at a discount to shares in  Hong Kong 
for the first time this year.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  led declines
among peers, trimming this week’s advance, amid concern about
the industry’s overcapacity. Video websites  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO) 
and Youku Inc. fell on rising competition.  China’s economy  probably slowed for the fourth quarter in
the last three months of 2011, according to the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before data released next
week. Policy makers banks’ reserve-requirement ratios last month
for the first time since 2008 to spur lending and have kept  key
interest rates  on hold since July.  “We’re looking to China to do more in terms of monetary
easing,” Lim Say Boon, chief investment officer of DBS Group
Holding Ltd.’s wealth management business in Singapore, said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television. “The big story is the
risk-on and risk-off that we are now watching being played out,
particularly in the euro area.”  The Bloomberg China-US 55  index (SPX)  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in New York also dropped on speculation some euro-area
nation’s credit ratings will be downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s .
France will lose its top AAA rating for the first time,  Agence
France-Presse  said, citing an unidentified government official.
Top-rated Austria will also be cut, a person familiar with the
situation said, declining to be identified.  China Southern  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  declined 1.3 percent, the most
in a week, to 2,244.58 on Jan. 13. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of U.S. stocks slid 1 percent to 1,282.74.  American depositary receipts of China Southern, Asia’s
biggest carrier by passenger numbers, tumbled 6.6 percent to
$27.75, the most since Nov. 9. The ADRs, each representing 50
common shares, traded at prices 0.4 percent lower than the
company’s Hong Kong-listed shares, the first day they have
offered a discount this year.  Passenger traffic for  China  Southern rose 5.3 percent in
2011 to 80.5 million, the Xinhua News Agency reported on Jan. 1,
citing an unidentified company spokesman. That was less than the
15.4 percent growth in 2010.  China Southern “still stands a better chance to lead its
peers in 2012 performance” even if the industry’s growth slows,
Bocom International Holdings said in a report on Jan. 13.  Solar Rally ‘Overdone’  Trina Solar  sank 7.5 percent to $9.55, reducing its gains
this week to 41 percent. The company jumped 29 percent on Jan.
11 following reports that China plans to develop three gigawatts
of solar capacity this year while Germany installed three
gigawatts of solar panels in December, the most in a single
month.  The solar rally “feels overdone” as overcapacity remains
major problem,  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates Inc. wrote in a research note yesterday.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the biggest solar-panel maker
in China, declined 3.5 percent to $3.05.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index  Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 0.8 percent
yesterday to $36.56. The yuan gained 0.2 percent to 6.3066 a
dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, expanded 9.1
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, down from 9.5
percent growth in the second quarter. Growth probably slowed to
8.7 percent in the last three months, according to the median
forecast of 27 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The government
is scheduled to report the figures on Jan. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  