-- China’s Stocks Decline Most in a Week as Hopes for Monetary Easing Wane
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-13T07:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/china-s-stocks-decline-for-third-day-on-earnings-economic-growth-concern.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index down the most in a week, as speculation the
government would loosen monetary policies waned.  China Vanke Co. (000002)  and Poly Real Estate Group Co. paced losses
by developers after the  China Daily  said Beijing will restrict
home purchases.  CSR Corp. (601766)  and China CNR Corp., the nation’s
biggest train makers, declined more than 1 percent as the China
Business News said the railway ministry may spend less on new
locomotives. Changjiang Securities Co. and Huatai Securities Co.
fell after net income slumped last year.  “An immediate reserve-ratio cut probably won’t come soon
given policy makers’ concern about a possible rebound in
inflation,” said Wu Kan, a  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance
Co., which oversees $285 million. “The tight liquidity
condition won’t change soon. Earnings risks have yet to be fully
exposed with the reporting season kicking off.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 30.43 points, or 1.3
percent, to 2,244.58 at the close. The  CSI 300 Index  declined
1.7 percent to 2,394.33. The  ChiNext index  of Shenzhen-listed
start-up companies tumbled 6.2 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US
55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, retreated 0.3 percent in  New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite rallied 6.4 percent in the three
days through Jan. 10, the most for such a period since October
2010, as slowing trade data boosted speculation the government
would act to spur growth and Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for
measures to support the stock market. The index fell 1.8 in the
past three days as Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc said inflation would hamper the government’s
ability to ease monetary policy.  Interest Rates   Swaps traders are also reining in expectations for
interest-rate cuts in the world’s second-largest economy after
increases in lending and manufacturing. The derivatives reflect
bets that the People’s Bank of  China  will lower its benchmark
one-year deposit rate to about 2.75 percent from 3.50 percent in
the coming 12 months, after indicating one percentage point of
reductions at the start of the year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in December and new
loans exceeded all 18 economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey,
official data in the past week show. Consumer prices rose 4.1
percent from a year earlier in December, compared with 4.2
percent in November, a government report showed yesterday.  Data released today also showed  foreign-exchange reserves 
dropped for the first time in more than a decade as foreign
investment moderated, the  trade surplus  narrowed and  Europe ’s
crisis spurred investors to sell emerging-market assets.  Property Curbs  A  gauge  tracking property stocks in the Shanghai Composite
lost 1.8 percent. Poly Real Estate, China’s second-largest
developer by market value, fell 1.1 percent to 10.28 yuan.
Vanke, the biggest, dropped 0.8 percent to 7.46 yuan.  Gemdale
Corp. (600383)  slipped 2.3 percent to 5.09 yuan.  Beijing Mayor Guo Jinlong pledged to restrict property
purchases and build more government subsidized housing this year
to cool the real estate market, the China Daily reported today.
China’s home prices fell for a fourth month in December after
the government reiterated plans to maintain curbs that include
higher down-payment and mortgage requirements, according to
SouFun Holdings Ltd., owner of the nation’s biggest real estate
website.  Declines among developers helped make the Shanghai
Composite the worst performer among the world’s 15 biggest
markets in the two years through 2011 with a 33 percent drop.
Today’s losses pared the Shanghai gauge’s gain this year to 2.1
percent. The index is still up 3.8 percent this week, the first
weekly advance in two months.  Stock Support  The  Shanghai  Composite trades at 9.2 times estimated
earnings, near the record low of 8.9 times reached on Jan. 6,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  Premier Wen called for measures to reform initial public
offerings and boost dividend payouts, the Shanghai Securities
News reported this week. China’s stocks regulator will
“actively” push pension and housing funds to begin investing
in  capital markets , and encourage long-term investors such as
insurers and corporate pension plans to buy more shares, the
China Securities Regulatory Commission also said this week.  “Stocks climbed earlier this week on signs of government
support for the stock market and the economy but nothing
concrete has yet materialized,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at
West China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Now we’re entering the
earnings season investors may turn more cautious.”  Changjiang Securities dropped 3.3 percent to 7.25 yuan. The
company said net income decreased 65 percent last year. Huatai
Securities sank 0.8 percent to 7.87 yuan after saying profit
slumped 47 percent in 2011.  Earnings Growth  Chinese companies have started to announce annual earnings
reports and will finish before the end of April. Eleven
companies in the Shanghai Composite have released annual profits
for 2011 so far, with an average gain of 22 percent, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That compared with an increase of
38 percent in the previous year.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s biggest,
fell to $3.18 trillion on Dec. 31 from $3.2 trillion Sept. 30,
People’s Bank of China data released in Beijing showed today.
The quarterly drop was the first since the midst of the Asian
financial crisis in the second quarter of 1998, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rail Investment  CSR, the nation’s biggest train maker, lost 1.1 percent to
4.47 yuan. CNR, the second biggest, slipped 2.5 percent to 4.31
yuan.  The railway ministry’s purchases of locomotives may fall to
80 billion yuan ($13 billion) this year from a planned 126
billion yuan in 2011 and 107 billion yuan of actual buying in
2010, the China Business News reported today, citing an
unidentified person close to the ministry. A deadly train crash
on July 23 that killed 40 people prompted the government to
reduce the speed of bullet trains and delay new projects.  China’s economic growth may have slowed to 8.7 percent from
a year earlier in the fourth quarter of 2011, according the
median  estimate  of economists in a Bloomberg survey. The data
are scheduled to be released Jan. 17. UBS AG estimates the pace
of expansion may slow to 7.7 percent this quarter. The central
bank cut lenders’ reserve requirement ratios for the first time
since 2008 on Nov. 30.  The government will accelerate the pace of approving
qualified foreign institutional investors, the China Securities
Journal said today, citing Wang Lin, head of the China
Securities Regulatory Commission’s funds department.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  