-- China Foreign Reserves Have First Quarterly Decline Since Asian ’98 Crisis
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-13T08:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/china-foreign-exchange-reserves-drop-for-first-quarter-in-more-than-decade.html
China ’s  foreign-exchange reserves 
dropped for the first time in more than a decade as foreign
investment moderated, the  trade surplus  narrowed and Europe’s
crisis spurred investors to sell emerging-market assets.  The holdings, the world’s biggest, fell to $3.18 trillion
on Dec. 31 from $3.2 trillion Sept. 30,  People’s Bank of China 
data released in Beijing showed today. The quarterly drop was
the first since the midst of the Asian financial crisis in the
second quarter of 1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The decline underscores forecasts for the central bank to
ease monetary policy, and may bolster China’s resistance to
appreciation in its currency. PBOC Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said
in remarks published this month that a global downturn may lead
to “large” capital withdrawals this year, highlighting a shift
in risk from the influx of speculative funds that China had
opposed during the 2009-2010 world economic rebound.  “It indicates an absence of flow pressure for the yuan to
appreciate, which may lead the central bank to slow the pace of
appreciation,” said  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING
Financial Markets in  Singapore . “This will also reduce the need
to absorb hot money inflows, allowing the central bank to cut
banks’ required reserve ratio.”  Monetary Steps  Condon, who previously worked at the  World Bank , said the
PBOC may lower the ratio of assets banks must hold in reserve by
2 percentage points in 2012. The bank cut the ratio for the
first time since 2008 last month.  China’s foreign-exchange holdings reached a record $3.27
trillion in October and then fell in the following two months,
the central bank data showed, indicating a decrease of $92.6
billion in November and December.  Much of the decline may be due to a lower value of the
reserves held in currencies other than the  U.S. dollar , said Cui Li, a Hong Kong-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
who previously worked at the  International Monetary Fund .  While China doesn’t provide details on the distribution of
its holdings, the country bought euros in 2011, with policy
makers flagging support for efforts to aid Europe’s battle to
resolve the sovereign-debt crisis. The euro fell 3.2 percent
against the dollar in the last quarter of 2011.  Debt Repayments  Corporate repayments of dollar debt also contributed,
according to Guan Tao, director of the international payments
department at the State Administration of Foreign Exchange,
Market News International reported today.  The decrease in reserves may also open the door to a
widening of the yuan’s trading band, said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a
senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. The
currency is allowed to trade 0.5 percent above or below a daily
 reference rate  for the dollar set by the central bank. Zhou has
signaled he’ll be more prepared for greater fluctuation once
there’s reduced risk of one-way bets on the currency.  China’s yuan rose 0.2 percent, to 6.3066 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  Shanghai , its first advance in daily trading this year.
The Shanghai Composite Index retreated 1.3 percent.  The drop in holdings was the first since the throes of the
Asian financial crisis in 1998, when nations from  South Korea  to
 Thailand  saw reserves depleted as investors fled the region.
East Asian nations later rebuilt their holdings and restructured
their financial systems, helping the region lead the global
economic rebound in the past three years.  Stock Slump  Countries including South Korea,  Indonesia  and  India  used
some of their reserves to support their currencies in September
2011, when European debt woes deteriorated as  Greece  teetered
toward a potential disorderly default. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index of stocks dropped 16 percent in the second half of last
year, when the Shanghai Composite Index slid 20 percent.  HSBC Holdings Plc is selling its retail bank in Thailand, a
market it entered more than a century ago, as the European bank
sheds assets to boost its capital base at a time when  Europe ’
debt crisis saps profits and regulators increase  capital
requirements .  For China, the Europe-led damage to the global recovery has
hit the nation’s exports, which rose the least in two years in
December, adjusted for holiday-period distortions. For 2011, the
trade surplus narrowed 14.5 percent to $155 billion, the third
straight annual decline since a record $298 billion in 2008.  Capital Outflow  At the same time, capital outflow likely did contribute to
a slide in China’s reserves late last year, analysts said. An
estimated $34 billion may have moved out in the third quarter,
driven by a mix of escalating concern over a hard landing for
 China’s economy , the worsening euro area crisis and speculation
that the yuan may fall against the dollar, Lu Ting, an economist
at Bank of America Corp. in  Hong Kong , said in a Jan. 5 report.  Lu said today that speculation of about $100 billion in hot
money flowing out in the fourth quarter was probably
overestimated.  China should use more of its reserves to make direct
investments overseas, Zheng Xinli, vice president of the state-
backed China Center for International Economic Exchanges, said
at a forum in Beijing this week.  The nation needs about $1 trillion of its holdings for
international payments purposes and should use the remainder to
buy assets such as exploration rights for energy and resources,
he said. China should also set up processing-trade zones
overseas which could spur exports of parts and raw materials, he
said.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Chris Anstey, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  