-- China Dictates Auto Design as GM Sail’s Big Back Seat Goes Global: Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-13T00:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/china-dictates-auto-design-as-gm-sail-s-big-back-seat-goes-global-cars.html
Chinese tastes, such as larger back
seats, are increasingly dictating global automotive design.  General Motors Co. (GM) , which conceived the Chevrolet Sail in
Shanghai, will offer the sedan in  India  this year, and already
sells it in Chile, Ecuador and Algeria.  BMW (BMW)  and Mercedes-Benz
began exporting stretch versions of their made-in-China luxury
sedans to the  Middle East  and  South America  last month.  “In the future, what is made for the Chinese will also be
made for the world,” said Burt Wong, chief production designer
at the Pan Asia Technical Automotive Center in Shanghai, the
research and development joint venture between GM and its
Chinese partner  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104)   Catering to consumer demands may help GM gain share in
China, where it already sells more vehicles than any other
foreign carmaker. For  China , increasing exports alleviates
excess capacity that Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. forecasts will
probably worsen through 2015. China exported 814,300 vehicles
last year, an increase of 49 percent from 2010, the country’s
automakers association said yesterday.  China’s influence on automotive design will increase with
its share of the global market for light vehicle sales,
projected by LMC Automotive to reach 29 percent by 2016.
Automakers sold a combined 18.5 million vehicles in the country
last year, compared with 12.8 million in U.S. light-vehicle
deliveries, according to the Chinese auto association and
Autodata Corp. China’s car ownership at 60 vehicles per 1,000
people is still less than half the world average, according to
the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  ‘Clear Mind’  “Anyone with a clear mind would say China is the next
place where we should develop our next vehicles for,” said
 Michael Dunne , president of the eponymous industry researcher
based in  Hong Kong . “It’s inevitable. China is the biggest
market in the world, it’s profitable and growing.”  Drivers in China like to offer rides to friends and family,
making second-row comfort essential, Wong said in an interview
at the GM research center, housed in a white-walled building
about an hour from central  Shanghai . GM engineers in China
studied the issue and decided to reposition the Chevrolet Sail’s
fuel tank, compared to other cars, to ensure a roomier back seat.  Designed in Shanghai  The Sail was Chevrolet’s second-best selling model in China
last year after the Cruze, attracting 166,693 buyers. GM also
plans to sell in India a localized version of an eight-seat
multipurpose van that was designed for China, it said this month.  In the past, Detroit-based GM had brought models designed
for the North American market and adapted them to Chinese needs,
Wong said. Now, the center cooperates with Michigan colleagues
as early as four years in advance on new and refreshed car
designs, he said.  Detroit  and Shanghai-based engineers worked together to
design the 2010 Buick Lacrosse, with the Chinese center taking
the lead in interior design. The Shanghai center, which employs
about 2,000 staff, is currently developing a new sport-utility
vehicle for global introduction, Wong said.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and its Chinese partner Beijing
Automotive Industry Holding Co. last month started exporting its
long wheelbase version of the E-Class sedan, said Arnd Minne,
Daimler’s Beijing-based spokesman, declining to give more
details.  The China-made luxury sedan gives rear-seat passengers 14
centimeters (5.5 inches) more legroom than the standard version
sold in the U.S. and caters to demand for chauffeur-driven
buyers.  Chinese Exports  Long-wheelbase luxury sedans are likely to be popular in
the Middle East because many of these customers are chauffeured,
said Andrew Thomson, Hong Kong-based co-head of Automotive at
KPMG China.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  began exporting the long-
wheelbase 5-Series sedans assembled at its factory in
northeastern China last month, said Lisa Ng, senior vice-
president at  Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Ltd. (1114) , BMW’s
Chinese partner.  The cars will be sold in the Middle East as part of a long-
term strategy to show overseas consumers that made-in-China cars
are reliable, Wu Xiaoan, chairman at Brilliance, said last
August. The company declined to provide more specific details.  Buyers of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s New Passat sedan in China get
blue-and-orange light-emitting diode front lights and Taoist Yin
Yang designs on speaker covers, features that aren’t available
in the model sold in  North America , said Andreas Hoffbauer, the
company’s Beijing-based spokesman.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , which along with GM posted record 2011
China sales, is adapting its in-car entertainment, navigation
and emergency systems to respond to Mandarin commands in a
variety of local accents.  “Ultimately, China’s status as the auto industry’s biggest
customer would make focusing on their design requirements
impossible to ignore,” said Alice Leung, Hong Kong-based deputy
head of research at ICBC International Research Ltd.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  