-- China Rivals Global Leaders for Oil Shipments: Chart of the Day
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-01-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/china-rivals-global-leaders-for-oil-shipments-chart-of-the-day.html
China  expanded its share of global
crude oil shipments in 2011, with government-owned trader China
International United Petroleum & Chemical Corp. rivaling Royal
Dutch Shell Plc, currently the world’s largest charterer.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how oil-tanker bookings by the
Chinese company, known as Unipec, for single-voyage, or spot,
cargoes have grown to 7.8 percent of the world’s total orders,
from 1.8 percent in 2006. During the same period, Shell’s share
of bookings dropped to 8.7 percent from 9.9 percent, according
to data compiled by shipbroker Poten & Partners Inc. Shell hired
661 tankers and Unipec 586 last year, Poten’s data show.  “The saturation of their spot market presence speaks to
the steady increases of crude oil demand in China at a time when
developed economies stagnate due to macro-economic pressure,”
Megan McCurdy, head of marine research at Poten in  New York ,
said in an e-mailed reply to questions. The expansion of Chinese
 oil companies  in the shipping market is “striking,” she said.  China is already the world’s largest energy user, consuming
the equivalent of 2.43 billion metric tons of oil in 2010,
against 2.29 billion tons for the U.S., according to BP Plc’s
Statistical Review. The Asian nation is also the second-largest
buyer of crude oil after the U.S. and its imports have expanded
for at least seven straight years, according to customs data.  Unipec hauls more cargo than Shell because it uses bigger
vessels. The company shipped 133 million tons of crude and fuel
oil in 2011, compared with Shell’s 71 million tons, Poten says.
The Chinese trader tends to hire very large crude carriers,
which normally haul about 2 million-barrels of cargo, or about
four times more than the aframax tankers that Shell favors,
according to McCurdy. In 2010, Unipec shipped 89.3 million tons,
compared with 69.6 million tons for Shell, according to Poten.  Chinese seaborne crude imports were 4 percent higher in
December than a year earlier, a faster pace of increase than
 Europe ’s 1 percent, according to data from Clarkson Research
Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  