-- Clearinghouses Raise Italy Debt Trade Costs as Rating Cut Looms
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-01-13T21:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/clearinghouses-raise-italy-debt-trade-costs-as-rating-cut-looms.html
LCH Clearnet SA,  Europe ’s biggest
clearinghouse, and Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia SpA raised
the amounts charged to trade Italian government as  Standard &
Poor’s  prepares to cut the nation’s credit rating.  The margin needed for bonds due in 3.25 years to 4.75 years
will increase to 6.60 percent, LCH Clearnet said today in a
statement. The margin was also raised for bonds maturing from
4.75 years through 30 years and for inflation-linked debt.
Italy’s Cassa di Compensazione also changed the margin, or
deposit, it charges clients to trade Italian government bonds.  S&P cut Italy BBB+ from A, said a European Union official
who declined to be identified because the decision is not yet
public. S&P declined to comment. France was also stripped of its
top  credit rating  as banks suspended talks with  Greece  over debt
restructuring, the first blows this year to efforts aimed at
stemming Europe’s fiscal turmoil.  “The event risk of a downgrade to Italian bonds could
cause more selling, and this would spark greater price
volatility going forward, which is why margins were raised”
said  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak
& Co. in  New York . “A downgrade may exclude Italian bonds from
some portfolios, which raises the risks for clearinghouses.”  The so-called deposit factor for Italian bonds due in
seven-to-10 years will be 8.30 percent from Jan. 17, Borsa
Italiana’s CC&G said in a document on its website today. That
compares with 8.15 percent announced on Dec. 7.  Default Protection  The cost of insuring euro-zone  government bonds  against
default rose to a record on Nov. 25 on concern a member of the
single currency would default.  Italian government bonds have lost 5.662 percent last year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, worse than
the 6.04 percent return in the so-called Group of Seven
countries.  Clearinghouses guarantee investors’ trades are completed by
standing in the middle of two counterparties, and raise margin
requirements to protect themselves against losses should one
side of the trade fail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  