-- Colombia Seeks Investors to Buy Part of Its Ecopetrol Stake
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-01-13T05:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/colombia-seeks-investors-to-buy-part-of-its-ecopetrol-stake.html
Colombia will target international
investors and sovereign wealth funds to raise as much as $3
billion this year from the sale of a stake in oil company
 Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , said Mines and Energy Minister  Mauricio Cardenas .  The government will sell as much as 3 percentage points of
its 88.5 percent stake in Ecopetrol, pending congressional
approval that is probable in the first half of the year,
Cardenas said yesterday in an interview in Bogota.  “We have to do a lot of promotion and marketing abroad,”
Cardenas said. “We’d like to explore appetite for this in
 Asia .”  Colombia is betting on demand in international equities
markets after crude climbed 16 percent in the three months and
Ecopetrol developed an $80 billion spending plan this coming
decade to increase output. The Andean nation is the third-
largest oil supplier in  South America  after drawing investors
including billionaires  Carlos Slim  and  Eike Batista .  The sale may be greater than some investors anticipated,
Felipe Campos, an analyst at brokerage Alianza Valores SA, said
in a telephone interview yesterday in Bogota. Campos doesn’t own
Ecopetrol shares. Alianza has a “hold” on the stock.  Ecopetrol yesterday slid 4.2 percent to 4,320 pesos at the
close in Bogota, the largest one-day percentage drop since Sept.
22. Colombia’s benchmark Colcap index declined 1.5 percent to
1,585.8.  Infrastructure  Colombia will seek to tap investors abroad after a separate
sale of stock by Ecopetrol in Colombia last year probably sated
most domestic demand, Cardenas said. Ecopetrol raised 2.4
trillion pesos ($1.3 billion), below its target of 2.5 trillion
pesos, amid a global equities rout last year.  “The new investors will have to come from overseas,”
Cardenas said.  The government has proposed to sell as much as 10 percent
of Ecopetrol to pay for infrastructure repairs after flooding in
 Colombia . The sale will be a “slow, gradual process” and
garnering congressional approval is a priority, Cardenas said.  “All of our attention will be on this bill,” Cardenas
said. “It’s not an easy bill.”  Gaining approval for the sale may be “a difficult
process,” Colombian brokerage Interbolsa SA said in an e-mailed
research note yesterday.  Ecopetrol’s output of oil and natural gas rose 16 percent
in the third quarter to 731,500 barrels a day, according to the
company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  