-- Colombia’s Peso Declines Most in Two Weeks Following Drop in Oil
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-01-13T18:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/colombian-peso-bond-yields-fall-to-four-month-low-on-cpi-outlook.html
Colombia ’s peso fell the most in two
weeks following declines in oil, the nation’s biggest export,
and as  Italy ’s credit rating downgrade by  Standard & Poor’s  hurt
demand for higher-yielding assets.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 1,841.05 per  U.S. dollar , from
1,838.35 yesterday. That’s the biggest drop on a closing basis
since Dec. 28. Today’s decline pared the peso’s jump this year
to 5.3 percent, still the best performance among world
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “ Oil prices  affect Colombia directly,” said Francisco Chaves, a fixed-income analyst at brokerage Corredores Asociados
in Bogota. “Given the recent gains in the peso, it’s only
normal for investors to take profit given the international
environment.” Oil accounts for about 40 percent of Colombia’s
exports.  Oil dropped to a three-week low after two European Union
officials said an embargo on Iranian crude imports may be
postponed for six months to allow nations to find other
supplies. Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi threatened
on Dec. 27 to block the  Strait of Hormuz , the transit route for
about a fifth of the world’s oil, if the EU bans the country’s
oil exports.  Credit Ratings  Italy’s credit rating was cut two levels to BBB+ from A by
Standard & Poor’s, a European Union official said today. More
downgrades will be announced at 9 p.m. Brussels time (3 p.m. in
Bogota) and will include France and  Austria  while  Germany  will
not be cut, a European official said.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent bonds due in July 2024
rose for the first time this week, increasing two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.38 percent, according to the
stock exchange. The bond’s price fell 0.180 centavo to 120.856
centavos per peso.  A majority of economists in a central bank survey published
yesterday forecast policy makers will increase the overnight
lending rate by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 5
percent in February after previously predicting the increase
would come in March.  Central bankers raised the key rate in November by 25 basis
points to 4.75 percent, citing the need to bolster their
credibility after “strong” growth drove up inflation
expectations, according to minutes of the meeting. They left the
rate unchanged at their Dec. 16 meeting and are slated to next
meet on Jan. 30.  Economists expect inflation to end this year at 3.5
percent, according to the median estimate, up from 3.4 percent
in the December survey and within the central bank’s 2 percent
to 4 percent target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  