-- Comedian Colbert Exploring Presidential Run in South Carolina
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-01-13T14:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/comedian-colbert-exploring-presidential-run-in-south-carolina.html
Comedian Stephen Colbert, emboldened
by a recent poll that showed him ahead of Republican
presidential candidate Jon Huntsman Jr., announced yesterday on
his late-night television show that he will explore running for
“president of the United States of  South Carolina .”  Colbert, 47, grew up in South Carolina, which holds the
next presidential primary on Jan. 21. Projecting the
conservative persona he uses on  Comedy Central ’s “The Colbert
Report,” he said he sees himself as the “Mitt-ternative” -- a
reference to front-runner  Mitt Romney  -- and decided to form
“an exploratory committee to lay the groundwork for my possible
candidacy.”  “I’m doing it!” Colbert shouted as red, white and blue
balloons rained down and the audience cheered and applauded.  While Colbert-as-candidate may be just another layer of
comedy, he could attract more attention, bigger crowds and
larger donations than some of the six official contenders.  His October 2010 “Rally to Restore Fear and/or Sanity”
with fellow comedian  Jon Stewart  in  Washington  drew a larger
crowd than the rally it intended to spoof, hosted by  Glenn Beck ,
a conservative commentator who is the former host of a Fox News
Channel television show.  Colbert Super-PAC  In June, Colbert won Federal Election Commission approval
to form an independent political action committee, which can
raise unlimited money from unions, individuals and corporations.
On yesterday’s show, Colbert consulted with  Trevor Potter , a
partner at the Caplin and Drysdale law firm in Washington, who
helped write the McCain-Feingold campaign finance law and also
helped Colbert organize his “Colbert Super PAC.”  To clear a path for his possible presidential bid, Colbert
transferred control of his independent political action
committee to Stewart, who promptly renamed it the “Definitely
Not Coordinating with  Stephen Colbert  Super PAC.” Under federal
law, candidates are forbidden to coordinate in any way with so-
called super-PACs, which can accept unlimited donations from
corporations, unions and other groups.  “I am excited to take the reins of this completely
independent organization, and begin to air ads in South
Carolina,” Stewart, the host of Comedy Central’s “The Daily
Show,” said in a press release posted on the PAC’s  website .
“But I want to be clear: Stephen and I have in no way have
worked out a series of Morse-code blinks to convey information
with each other on our respective shows.”  Survey Results  Colbert said he was inspired to possibly run for president
by the results of a recent Public Policy Polling survey of 1,112
likely Republican primary voters in South Carolina. The
Democrat-aligned firm found in an automated telephone survey
conducted Jan. 5-7 that Colbert had 5 percent support, compared
with 4 percent for Huntsman, a former Utah governor, who placed
third in  New Hampshire ’s primary this week. Colbert displayed
the numbers on his show Wednesday, declaring, “This just got
real.”  That same night he spoke of his indifference toward Romney,
who won the first two contests in  Iowa  and New Hampshire, and
compared the presumed nomination of the former Massachusetts
governor with an arranged marriage.  Four years ago, Colbert briefly ran for president, again
focusing on his home state. He decided against filing as a
Republican because of the fee and was rejected by the Democrats
as not a “serious” candidate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  