-- Contesting FCPA, CVS Caremark, Tata Motors: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-01-13T13:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/contesting-fcpa-cvs-caremark-settles-tata-motors-volcker-compliance.html
Executives facing trial in U.S.
courts over accusations of bribing foreign officials may be
encouraged to fight charges as prosecutors regroup after two
courtroom setbacks and await a verdict in their largest overseas
corruption probe targeting individuals.  One of two cases hailed by the government as milestones in
its enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act was
dismissed last year by a judge who said the jury verdict
convicting two men at an electricity tower company of bribing
Mexican officials was tainted by prosecutor misconduct in “a
sloppy, incomplete and notably over-zealous investigation.”  In the first prosecution under the FCPA based on a sting
operation, a judge declared a mistrial for four of 22 defendants
accused of participating in a fake $15 million weapons deal
involving Gabon. A separate trial is under way for a second
group of defendants.  The 2011 outcomes will make individual defendants in FCPA
cases more confident in contesting charges. This is so in
particular because they may face long prison terms under the
plea deals the Justice Department offers, even as corporations
continue to self-report and settle, said Philip Urofsky, a
former FCPA prosecutor who now defends cases at  Shearman &
Sterling LLP .  In a crackdown on overseas bribery that started during the
Bush administration, the government settled 57 cases against
companies from 2005 through 2011 without trial, reaping $4.1
billion for the U.S. treasury, according to Justice Department
data. A push to prosecute more individual defendants during the
same period has produced mixed results, with some beating
charges outright and others getting less punishment than
prosecutors sought.  Laura Sweeney , a spokeswoman for the Justice Department,
said the government has had “great success” against
individuals since increasing its enforcement actions in 2009.  The 1977 law bars companies or individuals regulated or
based in the U.S. from paying bribes to foreign officials to win
business. Foreign companies and nationals also can be prosecuted
if their corrupt acts were committed in the U.S.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Japan  Tells U.S. Volcker Rule May Hamper Government Bond Trading  Japan’s central bank and financial regulator told U.S.
authorities that the Volcker Rule restricting proprietary
trading would hamper the market for Japanese  government bonds ,
according to a letter released yesterday.  The proposed rule limiting banks’ ability to buy and sell
securities for their own accounts would increase the cost of
trading Japanese government bonds, the Financial Services Agency
and Bank of Japan wrote in the letter dated Dec. 28.  “Some of the Japanese banks might be forced to cease or
dramatically reduce their U.S. operations,” the central bank
and FSA said in the letter to officials including  Mary Schapiro ,
chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. “Those
reactions could further adversely affect liquidity and pricing
of the JGBs.”  The agency and central bank asked that the rule be amended
to expand exempted securities “substantially” to include the
country’s  sovereign debt . They urged the U.S. to refrain from
applying the restrictions overseas or consider amending them to
exclude some overseas entities.  Regulators are seeking public comment on the proposal and
may make changes before its scheduled effective date of July 21.  Broker Fiduciary Rule Delayed by Cost-Benefit Analysis, SEC Says  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s effort to
impose a fiduciary duty on brokerage firms has been delayed for
additional cost-benefit analysis, according to a letter from
Chairman Mary Schapiro.  SEC economists are still working on the initial proposal
for the rule, trying to quantify its impact, Schapiro wrote in a
Jan. 10 letter to Representative Scott Garrett, a  New Jersey 
Republican. A federal court setback in July has caused the SEC
to rethink the cost-benefit assessments in its rulemaking.  The rule, authorized by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, would
impose a fiduciary standard on broker-dealers that is as
rigorous as the one for investment advisers, requiring them to
put retail clients’ interests before their own. Currently,
brokers are required only to provide advice “suitable” to
customers at the moment of the sale.  The SEC released a study a year ago this month recommending
the change, citing customer confusion over the difference
between a broker and an investment adviser.  For more, click here.  Hong Kong  to Review Professional Investor Definition, SFC Says  Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission is
considering changing the rules used to classify some individual
investors as “professional.”  Ashley Alder, chief executive officer of the securities
regulator, said Jan. 11 that the commission this year will
probably revisit the “whole professional investor regime,
including potentially the financial limits that define what a
professional investor is.”  Alder made the remarks at an event hosted by the Hong Kong
Corporate Counsel Association.  Compliance Action  CVS Caremark to Pay $5 Million to Settle FTC Investigation  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , the largest U.S. provider of
prescription drugs, will pay $5 million to settle claims it
misrepresented certain Medicare drug prices, ending a two-year
antitrust and consumer protection probe by the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission.  The FTC said it decided to close its investigation “after
a thorough and comprehensive review of the other consumer
protection and competition issues in this matter,” and won’t
take any further action “at this time,” according to a  letter 
addressed to CVS Caremark’s lawyer.  The FTC began investigating the business practices of the
company in 2009 after CVS bought Caremark for $27.2 billion, the
largest acquisition ever by a drugstore. After industry and
consumer complaints, the FTC took a second look at the
combination of the pharmacy chain and pharmacy-benefits manager.
A 24-state task force also conducted a review.  The settlement, which requires CVS to reimburse consumers
who overpaid for certain prescription drugs, also bars CVS
Caremark from making deceptive claims with regard to Medicare
Part D drug prices, the FTC said yesterday in an e-mailed
 statement .  Douglas A. Sgarro, executive vice president and chief legal
officer of CVS Caremark, said in a statement that at the
conclusion of “this comprehensive investigation, the FTC made
no allegations of antitrust law violations or anti-competitive
behavior associated with any of our business practices, products
or service offerings.” CVS Caremark “cooperated fully” with
the FTC’s investigation, he said.  For more, click here.  Tata Motors Gets SEC Inquiry on  Africa , Mideast Exports  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the Indian owner of Jaguar Land Rover,
said it received an inquiry from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission on some of its exports.  “The SEC wanted details of our exports to Africa and the
 Middle East ,” said Debasis Ray, a spokesman for Mumbai-based
Tata Motors. Ray declined to name the countries that the SEC
wanted information about and why the agency inquired about
exports to those countries.  Tata Motors, which said yesterday in a statement it will
respond to the SEC within 10 working days, exported 58,044
vehicles, or 7.2 percent of total sales, during the year ended
March 31, 2011, according to its website. The Indian company,
which makes the Nano, the world’s cheapest car, doesn’t break
down exports by geography.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment.  Banks Said to Curb Conversion of French Stocks Amid Tax Concern  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR) 
started restricting orders to convert French stocks into
American Depositary Receipts amid concern about how taxation
changes will affect share dealing.  The brokerages suspended taking orders yesterday for so-
called cross-book swaps, where a client exchanges  French shares 
for U.S.-listed ADRs, or didn’t quote prices for the trades,
according to four people familiar with the situation, who asked
not to be identified because the information isn’t public.  The move was prompted by legislation introduced on Jan. 1
that extends duties on the sale of shares outside France, one of
the people said. It wasn’t related to concern President Nicolas
Sarkozy will impose a new tax on financial transactions. The law
removed a 5,000-euro ($6,400) cap on the tax payable on a sale,
KPMG LLP wrote in a  report  on its website dated Dec. 21.  Kate Haywood, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan in  London , Jeff
French, a spokesman for Citigroup, and Nigel Szembel of Tullett
Prebon all declined to comment on the trading changes.  Courts  MF Global Has Distributed $3.8 Billion to Date, Trustee Says  MF Global Inc. (MF)  has distributed about $3.8 billion so far
and has about $1.5 billion under its control, while there’s
still $1.2 billion missing, said the trustee for the failed
brokerage.  About 100 customers gathered at the  New York  Marriott
Downtown hotel to hear James Giddens, the trustee appointed to
liquidate the brokerage, describe his investigation. A lawyer
for the trustee, James Kobak, said the investigation involves
looking at a “wide variety” of institutions, individuals, the
holding company and other parties to try to claw back property
for distribution to customers.  Giddens said assets are divided into four categories: for
U.S. commodity customers, U.S. security customers, foreign
units, and general estate property.  In the largest pool, the trustee has control of about $1.4
billion and has already distributed $3.8 billion, or 72 percent
of what is owed to commodity customers.  At this point the trustee “does not know with certainty
the extent of the shortfall,” Giddens said, noting that $1.2
billion remains his best estimate. That sum covers all four
pools: customer, foreign, commodity and securities accounts.  Customers and creditors are already arguing about who has
priority to be repaid, even as regulators are investigating.  For more, click here.  Hedge Fund CEO Brownstein Gets One Year for Insider Scheme  Drew “Bo” Brownstein, the founder and chief executive
officer of Denver-based Big 5 Asset Management, was sentenced to
one year and a day in prison for trading on inside information
about a corporate merger.  U.S. District Judge Robert Patterson in Manhattan yesterday
also ordered Brownstein to perform 500 hours of community
service and to forfeit $2.44 million. Brownstein also will serve
six months’ house arrest after his prison release and was fined
$7,500.  Brownstein, 35, made more than $2.5 million in illegal
profits for his hedge fund and for relatives by trading on a tip
in advance of  Apache Corp. (APA) ’s $2.7 billion acquisition of  Mariner
Energy Inc. (ME)  in April 2010, prosecutors said.  Brownstein said he was sorry for what he called a
“terrible mistake” that he will “have to live with” for the
rest of his life. Patterson told Brownstein he considered his
offense serious.  The case is U.S. v. Peterson, 11-CR-665, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  CFTC Offered to Settle Lawsuit for $175,000, McCrudden Says  An ex-commodities trader who pleaded guilty to threatening
to kill financial regulators, including Commodity Futures
Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler , said the CFTC offered
to settle a civil case against him for a $175,000 fine and a
lifetime ban from the industry.  Vincent P. McCrudden, awaiting sentencing in a Queens, New
York, jail, told U.S. District Judge Denis R. Hurley in Central
Islip, New York, about the offer in a letter made public Jan. 9.
Settlement negotiations on Dec. 12 were unsuccessful, according
to an order by U.S. Magistrate Judge A. Kathleen Tomlinson, who,
according to McCrudden “endorsed” the CFTC’s offer.  McCrudden, 50, pleaded guilty to two counts of transmission
of threats to injure before opening arguments were scheduled to
begin in his trial on July 18. The charges carry a maximum
sentence of 10 years in prison. McCrudden has been held without
bail since he was arrested in January 2011 returning from
Singapore.  Dennis Holden, a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
settlement negotiations.  The criminal case is U.S. v. McCrudden, 11-cr-61, and the
civil case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
McCrudden, 10-cv-5567, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
New York (Central Islip).  Alliance One Should Lose Appeal Over EU Fines, Court Aide Says  Alliance One International Inc. (AOI)  should lose a challenge at
the European Union’s highest court over antitrust fines levied
in 2004 for fixing the prices paid to Spanish growers for
tobacco, an adviser to the region’s top court said.  The EU’s Court of Justice should uphold a fine of 1.8
million euros ($2.3 million) levied on Alliance One and its
subsidiary Standard Commercial Tobacco Co. by the  European
Commission  for their liability concerning another unit’s
involvement in the cartel, said Advocate General Juliane Kokott
in a non-binding opinion yesterday. The court follows this
advice, at least in part, most of the time.  A call to Alliance One in Morrisville, North Carolina,
wasn’t immediately returned outside business hours.  The case is  C-14/11 , Alliance One International and Others
v. Commission, at the European Union Court of Justice. For the
video, click here.  Interviews  MF Global’s Regulators: Part of the Problem or Solution  James Keneally, a partner at  Kelley Drye & Warren LLP ,
talked with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about federal
investigations surrounding MF Global Inc.’s collapse and
regulatory coordination before and after the firm’s bankruptcy.  For the video, click here.  Cobden’s Kerr Says RBS’s Accounts Are ‘Deeply Flawed’  Gordon Kerr, founder of Cobden Partners, talked about the
solvency of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , a government-owned
bank that received a bailout during the financial crisis of
2008.  He spoke with Caroline Hyde on Bloomberg Television’s
“First Look.”  Comings and Goings/Notable Passings  SEC Names Robert Fisher Deputy Director of International Affairs  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission named Robert
Fisher to the position of deputy director in the Office of
International Affairs, according to a statement issued by the
agency yesterday.  Fisher, who will oversee policy issues, had been assistant
director, the SEC said in the statement. The office advises the
commission on cross-border enforcement and regulatory matters,
according to a statement on the SEC’s website.  NAIC’s Vaughan Named Head of International Regulation Group  Therese Vaughan, head of the U.S.  National Association of
Insurance Commissioners , will lead a group coordinating the work
of international financial standard setters.  Vaughan was appointed head of the so-called Joint Forum
until the end of 2013, the Basel Committee of Banking
Supervision,  International Association of Insurance Supervisors 
and  International Organization of Securities Commissions  said
today in a statement.  She succeeds  Tony D’Aloisio   of the Australian Securities
and Investments Commission in the role.  Suspended Korean Savings Bank Chairman Found Dead in Seoul  The biggest shareholder of  Ace Mutual Savings Bank , a South
Korean lender whose operations were suspended last year by the
regulator, was found dead yesterday ahead of scheduled
questioning by prosecutors.  The body of Kim Hak Heon, chairman of Incheon, South Korea-
based Ace Mutual, was discovered in a Seoul hotel room, the
city’s Bangbae district police authorities said in a statement
posted on their  website . Prosecutors had planned to question Kim
yesterday regarding allegations of illicit lending and
accounting fraud, the police said.  Kim owned a 56 percent stake in closely held Ace Mutual,
according to the bank’s regulatory filing.  Ace Mutual was one of 16 savings banks shuttered by South
Korean regulators last year as developers defaulted on loans
amid a slowdown in the real-estate market.  A woman who answered two calls to the Supreme Prosecutors’
Office of Korea declined to comment or further connect the call
and refused to give her name, and there was no response to an e-
mail sent by Bloomberg News. A person who answered the phone at
Ace Mutual’s headquarters in Seoul also declined to comment and
refused to provide her name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 