-- Credit Score Zealots Pursue Fool’s Errand
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-01-13T17:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/credit-score-zealots-pursue-fool-s-errand-for-numbers-over-800.html
Jeff Rose, a 33-year-old financial
planner, is trying to improve his credit score even though it’s
780, which is 69 points above the median score.  Rose, who lives in Carbondale,  Illinois , said he opened up
a second  credit card  last year to establish another line of
credit and help boost his score. He said he doesn’t know exactly
what actions will help or hurt his score, so wants to get it
above 800 to ensure he gets the best rate if he refinances his
mortgage.  Three years after the credit crisis when lenders abruptly
closed accounts and cut limits, consumers, including those who
have excellent scores, have become more focused on getting the
number above 800. Those efforts may be futile because once
consumers have FICO credit scores of 760, a higher one doesn’t
mean they’ll get better interest rates on mortgages and credit
cards or more elite card offers, said Greg McBride, senior
financial analyst at Bankrate.com, a unit of Bankrate Inc.  “There’s very little incremental benefit to getting a
score above that,” said McBride, who’s based in  North Palm
Beach ,  Florida . Once consumers are above 760, “it’s a lot more
difficult to move the score up in any noticeable way, and little
reward.”  Mayank Maheshwari, 26, a business analyst who lives in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey , said his  FICO (FICO)  score is 780 and he’s
still trying to get it higher. He has a student loan that he
hasn’t paid off in full, although he can afford to, because he
thinks maintaining monthly payments on time will help increase
his score.  FICO Scores  The most common scores are based on models established by
Minneapolis-based FICO, formerly known as Fair Isaac Corp.,
which are used to gauge a consumer’s financial health. The
numbers, which range from 300 to 850, affect the ability to get
mortgages and credit cards, as well as the rates borrowers pay
for them. The score is used by 90 of the 100 largest U.S.
financial institutions, according to FICO’s  website . There are
other scores used by lenders, such as VantageScore, which has a
501 to 990 range for measuring credit risk.  About 18 percent of 200 million consumers in the U.S. with
credit scores, or 36 million Americans, had credit scores of 800
or higher in 2011, according to estimates from FICO. More than
75 million had scores of at least 750 while the median credit
score last year was about 711, FICO said.  ‘Bragging Rights’  The percentage of consumers with scores of  750  or more has
fluctuated only slightly during the past five years, said Barry
Paperno, consumer affairs manager for myFICO.com. That’s because
consumers with high credit scores tended to maintain their good
behaviors during the credit crisis, such as paying down debt and
cutting expenses, Paperno said.  The score that’s considered the cutoff to qualify for the
best rates, however, has changed. Before the recession, it was
generally 720 instead of at least 750, said Ben Woolsey,
director of marketing and consumer research at CreditCards.com,
a website for cardholders based in Austin,  Texas .  FICO credit scores rank borrowers according to the
likelihood of default and there’s almost no difference in the
probability of default when a consumer has a 780 or an 820, said
Ken Lin, chief executive officer and founder of San Francisco-
based Credit Karma. That means lenders won’t price a consumer
differently and extend different rates, since the risk is
virtually the same, Lin said.  “If you’re at 780 plus, it’s all bragging rights from
there,” Lin said.  Credit Decisions  The average rate for a  30-year  fixed mortgage was 3.89
percent in the week ended Jan. 12, according to  Freddie Mac . The
average interest rate charged on credit-card balances was 12.8
percent in November, according to Federal Reserve  figures 
released Jan. 9.  A FICO score of 760 or higher on a $300,000 30-year fixed
mortgage may qualify a borrower for a  3.62 rate  or $1,368
monthly payment, compared with a 3.85 percent rate and monthly
payment of $1,406 for those with scores from 700 to 759,
according to myFICO.com. Having a credit score of at least 720
means a consumer may get a 3.89 rate on a 36-month auto loan of
$25,000 and pay $737 a month, compared with 5.31 percent and a
payment of $753 for those with scores from 690 to 719.  The decision to offer a mortgage and the size and rate on
that loan is based on many factors about a borrower’s financial
history,  Tom Kelly , a spokesman for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the
largest  U.S. bank  by assets, said in an e-mail. JPMorgan’s risk
management approach is proprietary, and criteria that go into
the decisions on credit cards may be based on income and credit
history with other Chase products, said Paul Hartwick, a
spokesman for the New York-based bank, also in an e-mail.  Elite Offers  While the type of mortgage product and region may impact
rates, generally FICO scores above 720 receive the lowest rates,
 Terry Francisco , a spokesman for  Bank of America Corp.  in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said in an e-mail. A FICO score is
one of several considerations the bank uses in determining
credit-card rates,  Betty Riess , a spokeswoman for Bank of
America, which is the second-biggest U.S. lender, said in an e-
mail.  Elite card offers are more likely to be based on income and
assets than solely on high credit scores, Bankrate’s McBride
said. When making credit decisions,  American Express Co. (AXP)  looks
at a cardmember’s credit profile, which includes total debt
level, reported income, credit bureau score, credit report and
payment history, Melanie Backs, a spokeswoman for the New York-
based firm, the biggest credit-card issuer by purchases, said in
an e-mail.  Hiccups Happen  Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, climbed in
November by $5.6 billion, the biggest advance since March 2008,
according to Federal Reserve data.  “There are a lot of companies out there competing for
credit,” said Linda Sherry, director of national priorities for
Consumer Action in  Washington . “Once you’re there, your dance
card is going to be full,” she said, referring to a score of
about 770.  The benefit for consumers who have good scores and are
still trying to raise them is that they’ll have more of a
cushion in case they do something that negatively affects their
scores, said Woolsey of CreditCards.com. Borrowers should also
keep in mind that each lender may vary on what they use as a
cutoff for qualifying for the best rates, although anything
above 750 generally should be sufficient, he said.  “Some hiccups could happen and I get whacked and I’m a
720, so you shouldn’t be too comfortable because you never know
what might happen,” said Rose, the CEO and founder of Alliance
Wealth Management.  Timely Payments  Consumers with scores from 750 to 800 who want higher
numbers should continue what they’re doing, just for a longer
period of time, said FICO’s Paperno. That means continuing to
pay bills on time, keeping a low amount of debt relative to
available credit and not opening accounts unless needed, he
said.  Making a payment 30 or more days after the due date could
cut a score by as much as 110 points while applying for a new
card may result in a five point drop, said Liz Weston, author of
“Your Credit Score.”  Borrowers should avoid using more than 30 percent of their
available credit, even if they pay their balances in full,
because the balance owed may be reported to the credit bureaus
before the payment is due, according to McBride.  Credit Monitoring  Credit scores are usually a lagging economic indicator,
since delayed payments on mortgages and subsequent foreclosures
may take time to show up on reports, said Lin of Credit Karma.
The average score will rise this year as a result of the economy
recovering, Lin said.  Some things consumers do to try to improve their scores,
such as paying for a credit score monitoring service, aren’t
worth it, said  Ed Mierzwinski , consumer program director at the
U.S. Public Interest Research Group in Washington. Monitoring
doesn’t prevent errors or identity theft and consumers may not
understand the cost of the service, Mierzwinski said.  Instead, borrowers may want to just stagger looking at each
one of the free credit  reports  they’re entitled to annually from
the three major credit bureaus every four months, he said.  “Credit is there to save you money,” said Lin, referring
to how a high credit score can help consumers qualify for lower
 interest rates . “You shouldn’t be using money to build
credit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 