-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Snap Four-Day Drop on Europe Downgrades
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-01-13T22:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/credit-swaps-in-u-s-snap-four-day-drop-on-europe-downgrades.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk rose for the first time this week after  France  and
Austria lost their top credit ratings from  Standard & Poor’s ,
deepening concern Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will slow the
global economic recovery.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbed 1 basis point to a mid-price of 115.6 basis points at
4:47 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. Contracts
tied to bank debt also increased.  The swaps gauge, which typically increases as investor
confidence deteriorates, advanced from almost a two-month low as
S&P stripped France and Austria of their AAA grades and
downgraded Spain and Italy. The swaps index also climbed after
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest U.S. bank by assets, said
fourth-quarter profit fell 23 percent as trading revenue and
investment banking fees decreased.  “Even with a series of days of positive market results, a
little bad news can send investors packing quickly,” said  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate credit at Brookfield
Investment Management Inc. in New York.  The index touched 113.6 yesterday, the lowest level since
Oct. 28. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Credit-default swaps tied to the debt of U.S. banks also
rose, with contracts on JPMorgan increasing 8 basis points to
132.6 basis points, and those on  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  rising 10
basis points to 340, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market. Contracts on  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  widened 15.5 basis points to 292.3, and those on
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  added 16.3 basis points to 365.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  