-- Czechs Plan $150 Million Budget Saving With New State Treasury
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-01-13T10:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/czechs-plan-150-million-budget-saving-with-new-state-treasury.html
The Czech government may save as
much 3 billion koruna ($150 million) through a new Treasury
system that will centralize flows of state money, the Finance
Ministry said.  The new system, which should be fully operational from the
start of 2013, is part of the Cabinet’s plan to cut state costs
and trim the budget  deficit . The pledge to trim the gap below
the European Union limit of 3 percent of economic output helped
shield Czech bonds from the effects of the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis over the past year.  The new system will provide the Finance Ministry with
“detailed and structured” information about developments with
the state budget on a daily basis, Deputy Finance Minister Jan Gregor said in an interview in Prague yesterday. It should allow
the ministry to improve cash-flow management and enhance control
mechanisms over budget spending.  “Overall, the project is aimed at improving and
modernizing the budget management process,” said Gregor.
“Centralized liquidity management will also bring significant
savings for the state budget.”  A “conservative” estimate based on experience from other
European countries puts savings at 0.1 percent to 0.3 percent of
overall spending, or 1 billion koruna to 3 billion koruna, the
ministry said in an e-mail to Bloomberg today.  At present, the  Finance Ministry  gets information on state
budget developments on a monthly basis, with more detailed
information received quarterly.  More Institutions  The new system will include more institutions that are part
of public finances. Some, such as state funds, will be included
on a compulsory basis, while others, such as municipalities,
will be part of the state Treasury on a voluntary basis as they
will be free to transfer financial resources as they decide,
Gregor said.  “We should be able to bring several tens of billions of
koruna more under centralized, more-effective management,” he
said. “Integrating more institutions in the centralized system
should reduce the cost of liquidity management.”  The system should prevent situations when the Finance
Ministry is forced to borrow funds overnight on money markets
because it didn’t receive information about an unplanned
transfer of money, Gregor said.  Such borrowing “comes at a cost” that can in the future
be avoided, the deputy minister said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  