-- Deaths Show Schools Need Power of the EpiPen: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-01-13T22:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/deaths-show-schools-need-power-of-the-epipen-margaret-carlson.html
All children’s deaths are tragic,
but some are absurdly so. First-grader Ammaria Johnson had just
returned to her Virginia grade school after the Christmas
holiday and inadvertently ate a peanut at recess. Feeling sick,
Ammaria went to a teacher who rushed her to the school clinic,
where someone called 911.  By the time the ambulance arrived, Ammaria was in
anaphylactic shock and cardiac arrest. She died shortly
thereafter at Chippenham Hospital in Richmond. A $112  device ,
the most common of which is called an EpiPen, could’ve saved
her.  EpiPens aren’t as widely available as defibrillators,
though they should be -- especially in schools. As the device’s
name suggests, it is the size of a thick Sharpie marker and
contains a dose of epinephrine, which is injected into the
thigh. It gives an adrenaline jolt to the heart, dilates
breathing passages and buys time to get a patient to the
hospital before anaphylaxis sets in. It’s simple enough for a
child to use.  There were EpiPens in the school clinic, but they had been
prescribed for other children. None, by law, could be used for
Ammaria, even in an emergency, according to Chesterfield schools
spokesman Shawn Smith. To remedy that, the Virginia General
Assembly, following the example of six other states, is now
considering changing the law to make undesignated EpiPens
available for general use in school clinics.  Parental Wars  Americans simply don’t take allergies as seriously as, say,
a potential heart attack, expecting that they produce at worse a
rash or an upset stomach. At school, the war between parents
arguing for and against a peanut-free zone is topped only by the
one raging between working and stay-at-home mothers. Ask a
parent bearing homemade cupcakes about the ingredients and you
would think you’d picked up the tray and slid the contents into
the trash. At PTA meetings, it’s a toxic subject, considered a
fetish of helicopter parents and hypochondriacs. After all, the
argument goes, all these dubious allergies didn’t exist when I
was a kid.  That’s true, and no one knows exactly why. An  estimated  4
percent to 6 percent of American children now have food
allergies; the number  increased  18 percent from 1997 to 2007,
according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. Food allergens are responsible for 300,000 emergency
room visits annually by children under 18. They also cause 30
percent of fatal cases of anaphylaxis. A 2005  study  published in
the journal Pediatrics found that 24 percent of anaphylactic
reactions occurred in children with no prior history of life-
threatening allergies.  Prevention and education isn’t enough, particularly given
children who can’t remember their backpacks let alone to put
their EpiPens inside. It’s essential to be prepared for attacks.  Defibrillators made their way into offices, airplanes,
restaurants, health clubs and other public places only after a
campaign by the  American Heart Association  and allies. President
 Bill Clinton  signed a bill in 2000 that provided good Samaritan
protection from liability to anyone who uses a defibrillator in
an emergency. The bill also established grants to purchase
machines and train users.  The difference between acceptance of the defibrillator and
of the EpiPen has less to do with health and expense than with
politics. Adults with heart ailments are a far more powerful and
organized bloc than victims of allergies. If allergies were
taken as seriously as heart attacks, would General Mills Inc.
have just introduced peanut butter Cheerios, which look exactly
like the original? How’s a 5-year-old to know if the kid he’s
playing kickball with is offering a snack or a death sentence?  Proposed Solution  After a 13-year-old in  Chicago  died from eating Chinese
food cooked in peanut oil at a class party, Illinois Senators
 Dick Durbin  and  Mark Kirk  introduced a bill modeled on the
defibrillator legislation signed by Clinton. It would allow
schools in every state to stock unprescribed EpiPens. In
addition, the legislation would remove civil liability for the
emergency use of EpiPens and provide incentives for underfunded
schools to purchase them.  There no doubt will be legislators who complain about
 government spending  and unfunded mandates. But to save a child
like Ammaria isn’t hard. You don’t need to find a cure for a
complex disease like cancer. You don’t need to revolutionize an
industry, as  Ralph Nader  did with auto safety. All you need is
empathy, common sense and a hundred bucks.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 