-- Deutsche Bank Shrinks Austrian Equity Unit, Transfers Staff
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-01-13T09:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/deutsche-bank-to-scale-back-equity-business-in-vienna-focus-in-frankfurt.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
lender, said it’s scaling back its equity business in Austria
and moving staff to bigger offices elsewhere in Europe as a
slump in markets and trading weighs on earnings.  The bank must “concentrate its regional equities business
more closely in  Frankfurt  and  London ” given trends in “sales
and margin development,” Deutsche Bank said in an e-mailed memo
to clients confirmed by a spokesman for the lender. Employees
were informed yesterday and firings aren’t planned, according to
the spokesman, who declined to be identified in line with
company policy.  Deutsche Bank is following other European lenders that have
scaled back in Austria as part of plans to shrink their
businesses and stem capital shortfalls.  France ’s Credit Agricole
SA shuttered the Vienna branch of its CA Cheuvreux brokerage
last year, while Italy’s UniCredit SpA cut 12 jobs in the
Austrian capital in November as it abandons the equities
business in western Europe.  Johannes Linhart, head of equities in Austria, and research
analyst Matthias Pfeifenberger will remain in Vienna, though
other bankers may be moved to Frankfurt or London, according to
the spokesman. He declined to say how many people would be
affected.  Deutsche Bank held the number one positions in Austrian
investment banking and trading Austrian equities last year, and
aims to maintain the top spot, according to the statement.  The bank, based in Frankfurt, announced in October that it
would cut about 500 jobs at its investment banking unit after
scrapping its full-year profit forecast in the wake of  Europe ’s
debt crisis. It’s also cutting its Milan brokerage staff, three
people with knowledge of the matter said earlier this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  