-- Drug Shortages Raise Risk of Cancer Counterfeits, U.S. Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-01-13T20:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/drug-shortages-raise-the-risk-of-counterfeit-cancer-medicines-u-s-says.html
Shortages of some injectable cancer
drugs have created an opening for dangerous unapproved versions
of  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Herceptin and  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Neupogen to be
sold to clinics and other health-care providers, the U.S. said.  The  Food and Drug Administration  issued a  notice  today
warning providers to avoid direct solicitations from unproven
sources and only buy drugs through approved channels.  “Clinics were purchasing unapproved medications as a cost-
savings measure,” not because drugs were in short supply, said
Patricia El-Hinnawy, a spokeswoman for the agency, in an e-mail.  Record drug shortages in the U.S. are causing some
hospitals and clinics to use less-effective medicines, according
to doctors and pharmacists. The FDA has arranged to import
foreign versions of life-saving drugs that are in short supply,
the agency said.  Unapproved versions of Roche’s Rituxan and  AstraZeneca
Plc’s (AZN)  Faslodex have also been sold, the FDA said today. The
quality of such products is often jeopardized, putting patients
at risk, the agency said. Though some injectable cancer
medications are in short supply, none of the unapproved products
are on the shortage list, the FDA said.  “Amgen is aware of and is cooperating with the FDA on
investigations related to the illegal importation of Amgen
product that is approved for sale in other regions, but
unapproved for sale in the U.S. and being sold on the Internet
and directly to U.S. clinics,” Mary Klem, a spokeswoman for the
 Thousand Oaks , California-based company, said in an e-mail.  Pharmacist Group  Reports about sales of non-approved medicines have been
brought to the attention of the  American Society of Health
System Pharmacists , said Bona Benjamin, the Bethesda, Maryland-
based group’s director of medication use quality improvement.  “What this is doing is capitalizing on the fear of a
shortage and selling drugs that aren’t even in a shortage yet,”
Benjamin said in a telephone interview. “I would advise people
not to deal with these entities.”  The FDA notice advised clinics to verify the manufacturer
or wholesaler where they purchase their products. El-Hinnawy
said multiple sources for the unapproved drugs come from the
Internet. The agency also cautioned that deeply discounted drugs
probably are counterfeit or unapproved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  