-- Lean ‘Porgy and Bess’ Soars With Audra McDonald: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-01-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/lean-porgy-and-bess-soars-with-audra-mcdonald-jeremy-gerard.html
Fast-paced and action-packed, the
new Broadway revival of  “Porgy and Bess”  is a crib-sheet
version of the great American opera.  “Porgy and Bess” -- retitled “The Gershwins’ Porgy and
Bess” -- began its denaturing journey last summer at Harvard’s
 American Repertory Theater .  Director Diane Paulus, with “adapters” Suzan-Lori Parks
and Diedre L. Murray, kept the soaring highs and wrenching lows
in this tale of doomed love among the poor black denizens of
Catfish Row.  Everything has been done to make the show palatable to
opera haters, who might just get impatient with George Gershwin’s mesmeric albeit time-consuming music.  Still, “Porgy” is powerfully acted and magnificently
sung. Once, that is, you get past horrible amplification that
makes disembodied, diffuse mush of singers and musicians alike.  Catfish Row is the fictional South Carolina coastal
backwater whose citizens eke out a living baling cotton or
heading out to sea. The close-knit community is scandalized by
Bess, the loose-living, coke-sniffing girlfriend of crazed bully
Crown. When he kills a man and runs off, Bess takes up with the
crippled beggar Porgy.  McDonald’s Bess  Audra McDonald, her right cheek branded with a scar, eyes
aflame sometimes with fear, often with longing, brings Bess
poignantly to life, making us believe she can find peace with
Porgy. She’s never sung, nor acted, more hauntingly.  Nearly as fine is Norm Lewis, who plays Porgy with a
deforming limp and without the goat cart originally envisioned.
Lewis brings enough stature and dignity to make the change
unnecessary.  The intimate moments between these two -- in Act I’s “Bess,
You Is My Woman Now” and Act II’s “I Loves You, Porgy” -- are
deeply felt and moving.  The cast includes David Alan Grier, who has added layers of
darkness to the dope-peddling Sporting Life since last summer;
Phillip Boykin as Crown; Joshua Henry as the regal, doomed Jake
and Bryonha Marie Parham as the mournful Serena.  Since Harvard, some detail has been added to Riccardo
Hernandez’s abstract set -- an indistinct back wall with a few
windows and arches stuck in -- but it’s still un-atmospheric and
unreadable. Christopher Akerlind’s lighting scheme appears to
have exchanged bleached-out whites for unpleasant yellows.  ESosa’s fine costumes do some heavy lifting in conveying
the character of the impoverished, God-fearing folk of Catfish
Row. So does Ronald K. Brown’s familiar Sunday-church inspired
choreography  Still, this is a Cliff’s Notes “Porgy and Bess.”  Arrogantly trimming, reshuffling and “clarifying” what
George and Ira Gershwin and the barely credited DuBose and
Dorothy Heyward created, Paulus has so truncated the show that
it plays like a soap opera. There’s little room for breathing.
Only Bess -- thanks to McDonald -- comes wholly to life.  She and Lewis make “Porgy and Bess” a must-see, its flaws
notwithstanding.  At the Richard Rodgers Theatre, 226 W. 46th St.
Information: +1-877-250-2929;  http://www.ticketmaster.com .
Rating: ****  ‘Outside People’  Two adventurous companies, the  Vineyard  and  Naked Angels ,
join forces to present Zayd Dohrn’s “Outside People.”  Like “Chinglish” on Broadway, its subject is
communication mishaps between East and West, with sex playing a
prominent role in both.  But only “Outside People” has an STD as a central theme.  David (cocky Nelson Lee) has invited college friend Malcolm
(hairy Matt Delapina) to Beijing, where he has become rich
supplying  China ’s ballooning industries with cheap workers.  The play opens at a club where the nerdy Malcolm meets up
with David, his girlfriend Samanya (Sonequa Martin-Green,
worldly and brazen) and the demure Xiao Mei (Li Jun Li, delicate
and smoldering).  What ensues is a fractured fairy tale that begins with
Malcolm’s thwarted attempt to tell Mei that he has herpes.  Is it love or is it, as the ever-pragmatic David insists,
business? You may not care, because this quartet, fine-tuned by
director Evan Cabnet and given a terrific morphing set by
Takeshi Kata to play on, are pretty irresistible.  That’s no small matter given the gaping holes in Dohrn’s
dramaturgy.  At 90 minutes, though, it’s a provocative diversion.  Through Jan. 29 at 108 E. 15th St. Information: +1-212-353-
0303;  http://www.vineyardtheatre.org . Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 