-- Heating Oil Declines as Iran Embargo Delay Eases Supply Concerns
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-01-13T14:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/heating-oil-declines-as-iran-embargo-delay-eases-supply-concerns.html
Heating oil fell as European Union
sanctions on  Iran  may be delayed to allow countries to find
alternative sources of crude, ensuring supply for refiners to
produce the fuel.  Heating oil declined 0.7 percent as the EU’s embargo on
Iranian oil imports will probably be delayed for six months,
according to two EU officials with knowledge of the talks. Lower
supply to European refineries could limit fuel production in the
continent which consumes more diesel than gasoline.  “Before when we thought there was going to be an imminent
oil embargo that would’ve driven up the price of diesel over
gasoline,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at
PFGBest in Chicago.  February-delivery heating oil declined 0.99 cent, or 0.3
percent, to $3.0442 a gallon at 9:28 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , after dropping to $3.0341.  Gasoline for February delivery rose 0.49 cent to $2.7362 a
gallon on the exchange.  As the prospect of sanctions drew closer, traders bought
heating oil as a proxy for European diesel and sold gasoline,
Flynn said. “This could be a reversal of the heating oil
gasoline spread.”  EU members, including France and  Germany , have pushed for
an embargo to pressure Iran over its nuclear program. Iran, the
second-largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, pumped 3.58 million barrels of crude a day
last month, according to Bloomberg News estimates.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.9
cent to $3.391 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data. Prices
are the highest since Nov. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 