-- Tebow Boosts Las Vegas Profits From Bettors Eager for Broncos’ Win or Loss
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/tebow-boosts-las-vegas-profit-from-bettors-eager-for-win-or-loss.html
The Tim Tebow question at  Las Vegas 
sports books isn’t “love him or hate him?” In  Nevada , it’s
“bet on or against him?”  Las Vegas sports books have welcomed a surge in wagers over
the past few months on the Denver Broncos, who visit the New
England Patriots tomorrow night in the second round of the
National Football League playoffs. When the teams met Dec. 18,
it was the most heavily bet game of the regular season at $14
million, about five times an average NFL contest, according to
Las Vegas-based handicapping information website Pregame.com.  Oddsmakers attribute the increase to Tebow, the second-year
quarterback who’s been criticized by former players Merril Hoge
and Kurt Warner for his style of play and religious zeal, while
being lauded by teammates and fans for his leadership and
perseverance. He’s helped the Broncos to five fourth-quarter
comeback wins, and last week led them to their second playoff
victory since the retirement of Hall of Fame quarterback  John Elway  in 1999.  “It’s good for business,” Jimmy Vaccaro, director of
sports operations at Lucky’s Race & Sports Book in Las Vegas,
said in a telephone interview. “This kid brings in people who
might not normally bet on games. They’ll be on the bandwagon one
way or another. Either they hope he falls on his face or hope he
continues this magical ride.”  The NFL is the most-wagered sport in the U.S., including an
estimated $725 million annually in Nevada, and sports books
receive a commission of about 4.5 percent for taking bets.
Sports books won money on Denver’s game last week, as about 60
percent of the total was bet on the Pittsburgh Steelers as 8
1/2-point favorites. The Broncos won 29-23 on an 80-yard
touchdown pass play from Tebow to Demaryius Thomas on the first
play of overtime.  Changing Jersey  “It was a very profitable weekend,” Todd Fuhrman, Caesars
senior race and sportsbook analyst, said by telephone from Las
Vegas. “But while last weekend I was sporting a  Tim Tebow 
jersey, this weekend I will not be.”  Tebow’s success against the Steelers has meant betting
support this week for the Broncos, who are 13 1/2-point
underdogs for tomorrow’s game in Foxborough,  Massachusetts .
That’s the biggest playoff point spread since after the 2007
season, when the then-unbeaten Patriots were favored by 14 1/2
points over the  San Diego Chargers  and won 21-12. About 66
percent of the bets placed in Las Vegas for this weekend’s game
have been on Denver.  The  New Orleans Saints  are favored by 3 1/2 points on the
road against the  San Francisco 49ers  in tomorrow’s other game.  Home teams are both favored by 7 1/2 points the following
day, when the defending Super Bowl-champion Green Bay Packers
host the  New York Giants  and the  Baltimore Ravens  are home
against the Houston Texans.  Poll Results  Tebow, 24, was named America’s favorite active pro athlete
in an ESPN fan-based poll this week, the most recent entry on a
list that includes Michael Jordan,  Peyton Manning ,  LeBron James 
and  Tiger Woods . Three percent of Americans named Tebow as their
favorite athlete, ahead of  Kobe Bryant  of the  Los Angeles Lakers 
(2 percent) and  Aaron Rodgers  of the Packers (1.9 percent).  Tebow, who won the Heisman Trophy and two national
championships at the University of  Florida , has his share of
critics. He’s been panned by scouts and commentators such as
Hoge, an ESPN analyst, for his lack of throwing accuracy, which
was the worst among starting quarterbacks this season.  Tebow kneels and prays after wins, a public display known
as “ Tebowing ” that has spawned an Internet craze. A survey of
1,076 Americans by Atlanta-based  Poll Position , released
yesterday, found that 43 percent of those who said they were
aware of Tebow’s success believe it’s at least partly the result
of divine intervention.  No Issues  Tebow said the attention he’s received hasn’t been a
locker-room issue.  “You care about going out there and trying to get better
every day and trying to be a great teammate,” he told reporters
this week. “Hopefully they see you as a friend and as a
teammate and the rest of it is something that we laugh at and
sometimes they make fun of you for.”  The spotlight has fueled betting on the Broncos and created
a unique atmosphere, according to Vaccaro.  “Let’s say you’re in the Bellagio and your plane is at 2
p.m.,” he said. “Right now, with what he’s doing, he might
make you stop, turn around and make a bet just because you’re
leaving town. We’ve never had this kind of social climate
involved. It was always for other reasons, whether a guy was
going to play or wasn’t going to play. I’ve never, ever seen a
phenomenon like this.”  Won Seven Starts  Tebow was victorious in seven of his first eight starts
after replacing Kyle Orton in the lineup, including a six-game
winning streak. In that stretch, Denver became the third NFL
team in 20 seasons to win five straight games as an underdog,
according to Pregame.com founder RJ Bell. The Broncos lost three
games in a row to end the regular season, with Tebow committing
eight turnovers, souring bettors on the Steelers’ game.  “Setting a line on the  Denver Broncos  since Tim Tebow has
been starting has been tricky every week,” said Kevin Bradley,
sportsbook manager of Bovada.lv, an online betting site. “Not
necessarily setting the actual line, but knowing how to adjust
once the action starts coming in.”  Bettors at Caesars have several extra wagering options,
including whether Tebow will run for a touchdown against the
Patriots -- he had two in their last meeting -- and whether
he’ll finish with more passing yards than 49ers quarterback Alex Smith has against the Saints.  Popular in Futures  The Broncos have been among the most popular teams in
futures betting to win the  Super Bowl , even though the odds put
their chances at 1.5 percent. Denver would have to beat the
Patriots and then the winner of the Baltimore-Houston contest to
reach the NFL’s championship game in Indianapolis on Feb. 5.  “It would be OK with me if he goes to  New England  and wins
the game, even if it costs us money,” Vaccaro said. “It will
keep building and building. Can you imagine if this kid made it
to Indianapolis?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  