-- ECB’s Nowotny Says S&P Downgrades Serious Issue for EU
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-01-13T22:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/ecb-s-nowotny-says-s-p-downgrades-serious-issue-for-eu-1-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said  Standard & Poor’s  ratings cuts
are a “serious issue” for  Europe  because they “disturb” the
positive development in recent weeks.  “I am concerned that this decision could upset the
positive developments we’ve seen in Europe in the last few
weeks,” Nowotny said in a live interview broadcast by Austrian
state TV ORF. “That’s the most dangerous thing in my view.”  “The development on Europe’s capital markets has improved,
that’s why it is so hard to understand why this is coming right
now,” he said. “Of course there are many reasons to be
unsatisfied with the progress in Europe, but what happened will
make it even more difficult, because we had positive
developments in recent time.”  S&P today cut  France  and Austria’s AAA to AA+ with a
negative outlook, S&P said in a statement today. Cyprus,  Italy ,
 Portugal , and  Spain  were cut by two notches, while Malta,
Slovakia, and Slovenia were cut one notch.  S&P “is definitely a lot more aggressive” than Moody’s or
Fitch, Nowotny said, adding that “it also is a lot more
political.” The downgrade or setting of outlook negative of
“quasi all of Europe” is a “political action,” he said. The
other rating companies are more focused on countries’
fundamentals, Nowotny said.  S&P is “primarily saying that it isn’t satisfied with
Europe’s progress, in regard to the question of a joint fiscal
system,” or on whether the European Financial Stability
Facility is working, Nowotny said.  “This ratings decision is also a warning shot that the
decisions made on the European level must be implemented
quickly,” he said. “This is true in particular for the EFSF,
which needs to really become able to act.”  Editor: To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at +43-1-513-2660-12 or
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at +43-1-513-2660-13 or
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net  