-- Hedge Fund Securities Targets Japanese Investors With Epic Funds
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-01-13T01:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/hedge-fund-securities-targets-japanese-investors-with-epic-funds.html
Hedge Fund Securities , run by a
former Nikko Securities Co. banker, aims to raise 6 billion yen
($78 million) by March 2013 from Japanese individual investors
by offering  hedge funds  run by Epic Partners Investments Co.  The company raised 673 million yen in the first month since
starting a  fund of hedge funds  in November that invests in three
Japanese equity strategies run by Tokyo-based Epic, said
President Sadaya Mano. It will have capacity of about 10 billion
yen, which the firm aims to raise in about two years, he said.  Japanese retail investors, with about $14 trillion in
 financial assets , are faced with low bond yields, near-zero
 interest rates  and more than two decades of slumping stock
prices. Hedge Fund Securities wants to give them access to
strategies currently offered only to institutional investors.  “Retail investors aren’t getting access to hedge-fund
strategies that can actually provide decent returns, so we want
to fill the gap,” Mano, 35, said in an interview in  Tokyo .  Among the funds that are included in the offering is the
Wisdom of Japan Fund, which returned 1.4 percent in 2011,
according to Tadashi Mukai, who runs the fund. It employs a
market-neutral strategy, which seeks to profit from both rising
and falling prices by matching long and short positions in
different stocks to boost returns.  Japanese hedge funds  lost 1.3 percent in 2011, a year that
global hedge funds suffered their worst annual decline since
2008, according to data compiled by Eurekahedge Pte. The
Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index dropped 4.2 percent last year, as
global stock markets slumped amid fears that the European
sovereign-debt crisis would spread, and managers struggled with
increased market volatility.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 