-- Telenor Chairman Norvik Says State Tried to Influence TV2 Sale
-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-01-13T15:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/telenor-chairman-norvik-says-state-tried-to-influence-tv2-sale.html
Telenor ASA (TEL)  Chairman Harald Norvik
said Norway’s Trade and Industry Minister Trond Giske shouldn’t
try to unduly influence independent board decisions in companies
like Telenor, where the government has a majority stake.  Norvik said today Giske exerted pressure on the Nordic
region’s largest phone company to not to sell A-Pressen AS’
stake in TV2 AS to Denmark’s Egmont International Holding A/S,
as he preferred a Norwegian owner for the TV station.  “We were subjected to a pressure that goes far beyond
reasonable,” Norvik said during a press conference at company
headquarters in Fornebu, Norway. “We came under undue influence
to make a decision we don’t think was the best for the
company.”  Oeyvind Arum, a spokesman for Giske’s ministry, said he
wouldn’t immediately comment on Norvik’s remarks when contacted
by phone.  Egmont agreed to buy A-Pressen’s stake in TV2 for 2.1
billion kroner ($349 million) earlier this month to gain full
control of  Norway ’s largest commercial television broadcaster.
A-Pressen is owned by Norway’s LO trade union and Telenor, in
which the government has a 54 percent stake. Norway also owns 67
percent of Statoil ASA.  Giske repeatedly stressed that TV2 should remain in
Norwegian hands, Chairman Norvik said today. This wasn’t
possible as A-Pressen wanted a sale and Egmont had said it would
use its right of first refusal, according to Norvik. He said A-
Pressen was in need of additional financing after buying Edda
Media AS for an enterprise value of 222 million euros ($284
million) from Mecom Group Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net ;
Kim McLaughlin in Oslo at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  