-- Emerging-Market Stocks Slide on Report of European Downgrades From S&P
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-01-13T22:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/emerging-stocks-advance-to-five-week-high-as-europe-boosts-risk-taking.html
Emerging-market stocks fell after
reports that  Standard & Poor’s  would downgrade European nations
spurred concern for global growth  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 0.1 percent to 952.92
at 4:50 p.m. in New York.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  fell 1.3
percent and Mexico’s benchmark lost 2.1 percent. Turkish stocks
dropped 1.1 percent. The  BUX Index (XU100)  jumped 1.9 percent as Hungary
tried to restart bailout talks.  S&P lowered  France ’s credit rating by one level to AA+ and
cut Portgual’s to junk levels. The company also dropped ratings
for  Italy  and  Spain . The downgrades could decrease investors’
appetite for risk and intensify concern the global economy will
slow.  “If the euro-zone issues do not get resolved, then that
starts to spread more into not only the region but also the
global growth picture, because it starts to pull down global
growth,” Simon Quijano-Evans, the head of emerging-market
research at ING Groep NV, said in an interview. “The euro-zone
and the wider European Union is a large trading partner. Nobody
has an interest to see them fall or break apart.”  Global emerging-market stocks  advanced 2.8 percent this
week, the most since the period ended Dec. 2, as borrowing costs
fell for Italy and Spain at debt auctions. The emerging market
gains bested the 0.8 percent advance for  developed-nation
shares . The  MSCI Emerging Markets index (MXEF)  trades for 9.7 times
estimated earnings, lower than the 11.6 multiple for the
developed-nation measure.  Ratings Downgrades  The downgrades, which came after the close of trading in
New York, could threaten the European Financial Stability
Facility’s lending capacity. The bailout mechanism is funding
rescue packages for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal and is
guaranteed by  Europe ’s top-rated nations.  S&P reaffirmed  Germany ’s top rating and raised the outlook
to stable from negative. France’s AA+ rating has a negative
outlook.  Cyprus, Italy, Portugal, and Spain were cut by two notches,
S&P said. The long-term ratings on  Austria , Malta, Slovakia and
Slovenia were reduced one level.  Greece’s creditors said today they had failed to agree with
authorities about how much money investors will lose by swapping
their bonds. Holders of Greek debt have agreed to a 50 percent
cut in the face value of the credits, while the coupon and
maturity of the new bonds remain in dispute.  Global emerging-market funds drew $1.6 billion of inflows
in the week ended Jan. 11, Citigroup Inc. said today, citing
data from fund researcher EPFR Global.  The Bovespa fell for a second day, its worst streak of
declines since Dec. 19. Mining companies  Vale SA (VALE5)  and  MMX
Mineracao & Metalicos SA  dropped as lower metal prices dimmed
the outlook for Brazilian raw materials producers.  Hungary Talks  Hungary’s forint depreciated 0.8 percent against the euro
after the  International Monetary Fund  said it expected
“tangible steps” from the country’s government before deciding
whether to start talks on financial aid. Hungary is working to
revive bailout talks with the IMF and the European Union after
international creditors suspended negotiations last month on
concern new central bank legislation violates monetary-policy
independence.  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 1.3 percent, declining
for a third day, as Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc said inflation would hamper the government’s
ability to ease monetary policy.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries increased eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 441, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  