-- Ernst & Young Told to Pay $16 Million in Superior Bank Case
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-01-13T21:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/ernst-young-told-to-pay-16-million-in-superior-bank-case-1-.html
Ernst & Young LLP must pay
$16 million to a former executive of now-defunct Superior Bank
after a  Florida  appeals court found a judge erred in a case over
the accounting firm’s miscues in auditing the thrift’s books.  Judge  Jeffrey Streitfeld  in Fort Lauderdale mistakenly
allowed jurors in a 2009 trial to reduce the amount of damages
ex-Superior Bank executive  Alan Schein  was entitled to over
Ernst & Young’s auditing mistakes, the appeals court ruled Jan.
11.  The jury calculated that Schein suffered a total of
$16 million in damages, but said the accounting firm was only
responsible for $10.2 million under Streitfeld’s instructions in
the case. The  Fourth District  Court of Appeal in  West Palm
Beach , Florida, reinstated the full amount of the verdict.  “We are certainly pleased with this result in light of the
jury result,” Jack Scarola, Schein’s lawyer, said in an
interview.  Charles Perkins , a spokesman for New York-based Ernst
& Young, declined in an e-mailed statement today to comment on
the ruling.  Ernst & Young, which served as Superior’s outside auditor
for a decade, failed to detect financial manipulations that
culminated in the bank’s 2001 seizure by federal regulators,
Schein’s lawyers argued during the case.  When he sold his mortgage marketing business to Superior in
1998, Schein said officials gave him the right to demand a sale
of the mortgage-marketing unit, with the proceeds being split
evenly between him and the bank.  FDIC Takeover  Schein, of  Dania Beach , Florida, didn’t attempt to exercise
that option until after Ernst & Young’s accountants admitted
they’d botched the loan valuations, he testified during the 2009
trial. That bid was rejected by Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
officials who took control of the Hinsdale, Illinois-based bank.  Superior, co-owned by the billionaire Pritzker family, was
seized by the FDIC in July 2001 after losses depleted capital
reserves. Those losses were tied to mortgages involving high-
risk borrowers that were packaged as investments, FDIC officials
said. The bank used improper accounting and record-keeping,
regulators said.  Ernst & Young paid $125 million to settle regulators’
claims over its audits of Superior’s books, according to court
filings. Superior’s owners, including the Pritzkers, agreed in
December 2001 to pay the government $460 million over the bank’s
collapse.  Reduced Award  During the trial of Schein’s claims, Streitfeld ordered
jurors to decide if the former executive was at fault for any
percentage of his losses and to reduce any jury award by that
amount.  After the panel found Schein’s damages amounted to
$16 million, it concluded that Ernst & Young was only
responsible for paying $10.2 million of that award under
Streitfeld’s instructions. The appeals court said the judge
erred in telling the jury to consider whether Schein was at
fault in the case.  The case is Alan Schein v. Ernst & Young LLP, 03-000266,
Complex Litigation Unit, Circuit Court for the 17th Judicial
Circuit of Florida, Broward County ( Fort Lauderdale ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, at
 susannahnesmith@yahoo.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  