-- Tesla Falls After Executives Leave Before Electric Model S Debut
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-01-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/tesla-loses-two-model-s-executives-before-sedan-makes-debut-shares-slump.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  plunged a record
19 percent after saying two senior engineers on the new Model S
luxury sedan left the U.S. electric-car maker just months before
the auto goes on sale.  Peter Rawlinson, Tesla’s vice president and chief engineer,
and Nick Sampson, who supervised vehicle and chassis
engineering, departed this month, according to Ricardo Reyes, a
spokesman for the  Palo Alto , California-based company.  “Having completed conceptual and design engineering work
on Model S, Peter has decided to step away to tend to personal
matters in the U.K.,” Reyes said yesterday. Sampson had “fully
transitioned” off the Model S at the time of his departure,
Reyes said without elaborating.  Tesla, which received a $465 million U.S. loan to build its
rechargeable models at a plant in Fremont,  California , plans to
begin producing and selling Model S cars by midyear. The company
said last month that initial versions, able to travel as far as
300 miles (480 kilometers) per charge, will sell for as much as
$92,400 before a $7,500 tax credit.  The departures “may be for personal reasons, but it
doesn’t look good,” said  Jim Hall , principal of 2953 Analytics
Inc., an automotive consulting firm in Birmingham, Michigan.
“And for Tesla, looks are very important at this point.”  The Model S is Tesla’s second vehicle, following its
$109,000 Roadster, and is intended to expand the company’s sales
volume with a base model starting at $57,400, before the tax
credit. That version will go as far as 160 miles per charge.  Tesla tumbled to $22.79 yesterday at the close in  New York ,
the biggest slide since the  shares  began trading on June 29,
2010. The stock rebounded to $24.56 in after-hours trading.  ‘Much Diminished’  “The uncertainty around Model S is now much diminished, as
anyone who has seen the beta vehicles and toured the factory
will appreciate,”  Elon Musk , Tesla’s chief executive officer
and biggest shareholder, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “There is no question in my mind that we will start
delivering vehicles in July, if not sooner.”  Jerome Guillen, formerly with  Daimler AG (DAI) , will assume
Rawlinson’s duties, and Tesla hired a former  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
executive, Eric Bach, “to help in the final stretch of bringing
Model S into production,” Musk said.  Bach ran small-vehicle programs at VW and “has a lot of
high-volume expertise,” Musk said. “Eric reports to Jerome.”  Rawlinson, a former chief engineer at U.K.-based sports-car
maker Group Lotus Plc and head of vehicle engineering at
consulting firm Corus Automotive, joined Tesla in 2009.  Sampson, who joined Tesla in 2010, also previously worked
for Lotus and Jaguar Cars Ltd.  Tesla investors include Daimler,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  