-- EU Naval Forces Exchange Gunfire With Somali Pirates in Attack on Tanker
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-01-13T18:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/eu-naval-force-thwarts-somalian-pirate-attack-on-oil-tanker-near-mogadishu.html
European Union naval forces
exchanged gunfire with Somali pirates yesterday in thwarting an
attack on a Spanish navy oil tanker near Mogadishu.  Five of six suspected pirates detained on the ESPS Patino
were injured and two required medical treatment,  EU Navfor
Somalia  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  EU counter-piracy forces, which began their mission in
December 2008, last exchanged fire with pirates in September,
naval force spokesman Harrie Harrison said by phone from
Northwood,  England .  Somali pirate attacks on merchant ships that transit the
Indian Ocean and Gulf of Aden, an area as large as  Europe , more
than quadrupled since 2007 to 219 in last year’s first 11
months, according to a U.K. parliamentary  report  released last
week.  Between 1,500 and 3,000 pirates operate in the waters,
navigated by 28,000 vessels carrying 40 percent of world trade,
according to the report. Pirates secured $135 million in ransom
payments in 2011 to release hijacked ships, it showed.  The men approached the Spanish tanker in a skiff, opened
fire and tried to board, not realizing the ship was a naval
vessel because it was dark, according to Harrison.  “The suspect pirates would have seen it looked like a
large ship and gone for it,” he said.  Forces on the Patino fired in self-defense as the vessel
waited “a short distance” from Mogadishu for a ship to unload
a World Food Programme aid cargo, according to Harrison.
Counter-piracy forces including NATO, the EU and the U.S.-led
Combined Maritime Task Force patrol the  Indian Ocean .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  