-- Euro Tumbles to Lowest in 16 Months Versus Dollar as S&P Downgrades France
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-01-13T22:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/euro-extends-losses-versus-dollar-yen-on-speculation-s-p-downgrades-loom.html
The euro dropped against most major
counterparts, reaching a 16-month low versus the dollar, as
 Standard & Poor’s  stripped France of its top  credit rating .  The 17-nation currency fell for a sixth straight week
against the greenback, its longest losing streak in almost two
years, as S&P said on its website it lowered France’s rating one
step to AA+ with a negative outlook. The euro fell to its
weakest versus the yen since 2000 as talks between Greece and
creditor banks were put on hold. The Dollar Index climbed as
U.S. stocks fell after JPMorgan Chase & Co. said profit slid.  “The rumors of the pending cuts were enough to make the
euro fall off and then take stocks with it,” said  John Doyle ,
director of markets in  Washington  at the currency-trading firm
Tempus Consulting Inc. “ Greece  has been a thorn in the side of
the euro for almost three years now, and it will be a continuing
weight on the euro.”  The euro weakened 1.1 percent to $1.2680 at 5 p.m. in New
York. It touched $1.2624, the lowest level since Aug. 25, 2010,
and lost 0.3 percent over the past five days. The last time the
euro dropped for six weeks was the period ended Feb. 19, 2010.  The shared currency sank 0.8 percent to 97.57 yen and
touched 97.20 yen, the weakest level since December 2000. It
lost 0.3 percent for the week, its third five-day decline. The
Japanese currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 76.97 per dollar.  While  France  was downgraded, S&P affirmed the ratings of
Germany,  Belgium ,  Estonia ,  Finland , Ireland, Luxembourg and the
Netherlands, the company said in a statement.  S&P Downgrades  Ratings of Cyprus,  Italy ,  Portugal , and  Spain  were cut by
two levels, S&P said. Austria, Malta, Slovakia and Slovenia were
cut one step, it said.  The dollar climbed against most of its major counterparts
as risk appetite faded and investors sought refuge.  “The three strongest net inflows being currently witnessed
amongst global fixed-income markets are into Japanese  government
bonds , Swiss bonds and U.S. Treasuries,”  Samarjit Shankar , a
managing director for the foreign-exchange group in Boston at
Bank of New York Mellon, wrote to clients. “This flight to
relative safe and liquid assets is being spurred by renewed
concerns about potential credit rating downgrades in the euro
zone.”  Yields (USGG10YR)  on benchmark Treasury 10-year notes declined to 1.83
percent, the lowest level this year, as the securities’ prices
rose. Japanese 10-year notes yielded 0.95 percent, the lowest
since November, and Swiss 10-year yields were at 0.79 percent.  Dollar Index (DXY)   The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, reached 81.784, the highest since Sept. 14,
2010, after JPMorgan said fourth-quarter profit decreased 23
percent. The  S&P 500 Index  dropped as much as 1.4 percent before
paring losses to 0.5 percent.  Greece’s creditor banks broke off talks after failing to
agree with the government about how much money investors will
lose by swapping their bonds, increasing the risk of the euro-
area’s first sovereign default. Negotiations have “paused for
reflection,” the Institute of International Finance said in an
e-mailed statement today. The government said the two sides will
reconvene discussions in five days.  “We’re focused on if there is going to be an agreement at
all, regardless of the specifics,” said Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Stamford,
 Connecticut . “The ratings could have implications for the
backstop mechanism, but we’re just focusing right now on
Greece.”  Bets Against Euro  Futures traders  increased bets to a record high that the
euro will decline against the dollar. The difference between
wagers that the shared currency would fall versus those that it
would rise -- so-called net shorts -- surged to 155,195 in the
week ended Jan. 10, according to data from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission released yesterday.  France’s rating downgrade may threaten the potency of the
region’s main bailout fund. The European Financial Stability
Facility, which is funding rescue packages for Greece, Ireland
and Portugal partially with bond sales, owes its AAA rating to
guarantees from the euro region’s top-rated nations. A French
downgrade may prompt investors to demand higher rates.  S&P put the ratings of 15 euro nations, including AAA rated
 Germany  and France, on review Dec. 5 for possible downgrades.
Moody’s Investors Service said Dec. 12 it would review European
Union countries’ ratings after a Dec. 9 summit failed to produce
“decisive policy measures” to end the debt crisis.  Italian Auction  The euro retreated 0.8 percent today against nine-developed
nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes after Italian borrowing costs declined less at a note
sale than when the country auctioned bills yesterday. The dollar
gained 0.6 percent, while the Swedish krona was the biggest
loser after the euro, declining 0.6 percent.  Italy sold notes due in November 2014 at an average yield
of 4.83 percent, down from 5.62 percent at a prior auction on
Dec. 29. Investors bid for 1.2 times the amount allotted, down
from a bid-to-cover ratio of 1.36 last month.  The nation’s cost of borrowing for one year dropped to
2.735 percent at a bill sale yesterday, from a 5.952 percent
yield at the prior auction on Dec. 12.  “That the bid-to-cover ratio was not especially high,
combined with euphoric reactions to the bill auctions yesterday,
left room for disappointment,” said Shahab Jalinoos, a senior
currency strategist at UBS AG in Stamford, Connecticut. “The
second issue is that the Greek private-sector-involvement story
continues to rumble in the background.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  