-- Euro Strengthens as Italian Bonds Advance, ECB Says Credit Crunch Averted
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-01-13T08:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/euro-set-to-end-five-week-decline-after-ecb-says-credit-shortage-averted.html
The euro rose, extending its first
weekly gain versus the dollar in six weeks, as Italian bonds
advanced and after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said policy makers have averted a credit shortage.  The 17-nation currency climbed against all but two of its
16 major counterparts as Spanish debt also rallied as Italy
prepared to sell notes today. The Dollar  Index (SPX)  dropped for a
second day before a U.S. report forecast to show  consumer
confidence  improved this month, reducing demand for the U.S.
currency as a haven.  “The European liquidity operations are having a positive
effect on risk appetite,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional
trader at IG Markets Ltd. in  Melbourne . “The bond auctions are
becoming more positive and yields are declining and that’s
having a positive impact on euro.”  The euro gained 0.4 percent to $1.2864 at 8:26 a.m. in
London, extending this week’s gain to 1.2 percent, the first
five-day advance since the period ended Dec. 2. The currency
advanced 0.3 percent to 98.66 yen. The dollar was little changed
at 76.70 yen.  Italy will sell bonds due in 2014 and 2018 today after the
nation’s borrowing costs more than halved at an auction of one-
year bills yesterday. Italy’s  10-year yield  fell 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, today to 6.51 percent. Spanish
10-year yields dropped four basis points to 5.09 percent.  Signs of Stability  Draghi said the central bank’s massive injection of cash
into the financial system last month is beginning to flow
through into credit markets. “There are tentative signs of
stabilization of economic activity,” he said in  Frankfurt  after
the ECB’s policy meeting yesterday. Policy makers kept the
benchmark rate at a record low of 1 percent after two straight
quarter-point reductions.  The Stoxx Europe 600  Index (MXAP)  gained 0.6 percent, and futures
on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.2 percent.  The euro’s gain is “is not unrealistic, given that we’re
going into a long U.S. weekend, so some people will have wanted
to take off some of the positions” betting on declines, said
Alex Sinton, a senior dealer at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in
Auckland. “It’s a minor corrective move of an overall trend
that’s still in place while they take measures to correct the
underlying issue, which is spending more than is being earned.”
U.S. markets are shut for a public holiday on Jan. 16.  The euro may weaken as low as $1.16 this year, he said.  Resistance Levels  Gains in the euro may be tempered as it approaches levels
of so-called resistance at $1.2860 and $1.2933, according to
 Karen Jones , head of fixed-income, commodity and currency
technical analysis at Commerzbank AG in London. These represent
last-year’s low and a short-term down channel, she wrote today
in a note to clients.  The dollar weakened against 12 of its 16 major counterparts
as signs the world’s biggest economy is improving reduced demand
for safer investments.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 consumer confidence  index rose to 71.5 for January from 69.9 in
December, according to a Bloomberg survey before today’s report.  The  U.S. economy  “expanded at a modest to moderate pace”
from late November through the end of December, the  Federal
Reserve  said in its Beige Book business survey released Jan. 11.
Policy makers at the Fed’s meeting this month will publish
projections for the federal funds rate for the first time and
update their forecasts for growth, unemployment and inflation.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, dropped 0.3 percent to 80.599.  The dollar has depreciated 0.8 percent in the past week,
the second-worst performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  