-- Euro-Area Exports Increase, Led by France
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-01-13T11:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/euro-area-exports-rose-on-euro-drop-in-november-led-by-france.html
European exports increased in
November, led by France and the Netherlands, and the monthly
 trade surplus  swelled to the  most since July 2004 , adding to
signs that the euro-area economy may be stabilizing.  Exports from the euro region rose a seasonally adjusted 3.9
percent from October, when they dropped 2 percent, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Imports were
flat and the trade surplus widened to 6.1 billion euros ($7.8
billion).  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi   said  yesterday
that the euro-area economy is showing “tentative signs of a
stabilization in activity at low levels.” While Draghi still
warned of “substantial downside risks,” the ECB voted to keep
 interest rates  at a record low. EU President  Herman Van Rompuy 
said on Jan 11 that the current euro exchange rate against the
dollar, “is favorable for exports.”  Today’s data “boost hopes that net trade was positive in
the fourth quarter and limits likely overall euro-zone gross
domestic product contraction,”  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in London, said in a note to
clients. Still, stagnant imports signal “weakened euro-zone
domestic demand,” he said.  U.S. Shortfall  Exports from Germany,  Europe ’s biggest economy, increased a
seasonally adjusted 0.1 percent in November, today’s report
showed. Shipments from France advanced 13.3 percent and Dutch
exports rose 8.4 percent. Exports from  Greece  tumbled 14.4
percent in the month.  Europe’s gains contrasted with the U.S., where the trade
deficit probably widened in November for the first time in five
months as oil imports rose,  economists said  before a report
today.  The shortfall grew to $45 billion from $43.5 billion in
October, according to the median of 75 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Consumer sentiment climbed in January to a seven-
month high, other figures may show.  “Imports outpacing exports just ever so much will create a
marginal rise in the trade deficit,” said Omair Sharif, an
economist at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.
“Consumer goods imports remained fairly weak. Exports are still
holding up fairly well despite the ongoing crisis in the  euro
zone , and that’s a pretty encouraging sign.”  More Stimulus  In Asia, the Bank of Korea held off raising borrowing costs
for the seventh straight month, highlighting growing risks to
its economy from Europe’s debt crisis. Elsewhere in the region,
 China ’s foreign-exchange reserves posted the first quarterly
decline in more than a decade, as foreign investment moderated,
the trade surplus narrowed and investors withdrew capital amid
the global financial crisis.  A darkening global growth outlook and easing inflation
pressures may yet compel the European central bank to add more
stimulus to the economy. Neil Mackinnon, a strategist at VTB
Capital Plc in London, said recent indicators of the euro area’s
economy are “very discouraging,” and some countries in the
area “have already lapsed into recession,” which may force the
ECB to cut rates again.  In the U.K., factory output prices unexpectedly fell in
December for the first time in 18 months as the cost of
petroleum products such as gasoline plunged. The  Bank of
England , which yesterday refrained from adding to its bond-
purchase program as it waits for new forecasts on growth and
inflation next month, has said consumer-price growth may fall
“sharply” this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  