-- European Stocks Gain for Fourth Straight Week on Spain, Italy Debt Sales
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-01-14T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/european-stocks-gain-for-fourth-straight-week-on-spain-italy-debt-sales.html
European stocks  rose for a fourth
week, the longest winning streak since October, as declining
borrowing costs at sales of Italian and Spanish debt outweighed
worse-than-forecast data on U.S. jobs and retail sales.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc climbed the most in two
years, leading gains in financial shares. UniCredit SpA,  Italy ’s
biggest bank, advanced 11 percent, rebounding from the previous
week’s 38 percent tumble. ING Groep NV, the largest Dutch
financial-services company, rallied 11 percent. Retail stocks
sank the most since August as  Tesco (TSCO)  Plc plunged after reporting
Christmas sales that missed analyst estimates.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  increased 0.7 percent
to 249.18 this past week, even after falling 0.1 percent
yesterday on concern that rating companies may downgrade several
euro-area countries. The gauge has  advanced  1.9 percent in 2012
as declining bond yields across Europe’s peripheral nations
tempered concern that the region’s debt crisis is worsening.  “For all the talk of debt downgrades, the truth is that
bond auctions have shown that the most worrisome countries can
access credit,” said Francisco Salvador, a strategist at FGA/MG
Valores in  Madrid . “This has comforted investors.”  National benchmark indexes rose in 13 of the 18 western
European markets.  France ’s  CAC 40  climbed 1.9 percent and
Germany’s DAX advanced 1.4 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index fell 0.2 percent.  Debt Sales  Spain auctioned 10 billion euros ($12.7 billion) of bonds
maturing in 2015 and 2016 on Jan. 12, twice the maximum target
set for the sale. The yield on the three-year notes was 3.384
percent, compared with 5.187 percent when the nation sold
similar securities in December.  Italy issued 12 billion euros of Treasury bills, meeting
its target as its borrowing costs plunged. The Rome-based
Treasury auctioned 8.5 billion euros one-year bills at a rate of
2.735 percent, down from 5.952 percent at the last auction.  U.S. reports this week showed  jobless-benefit claims 
climbed more than forecast while retail sales in December rose
less than economists had projected. Germany,  Europe ’s largest
economy, may be on the brink of recession after the economy
contracted in the final quarter of 2011, according to an
unofficial estimate from the Federal Statistics Office.  France and Austria face downgrades at  Standard & Poor’s ,
government officials and people familiar with the matter said
yesterday. France will lose its AAA rating for the first time,
 Agence France-Presse  reported. Italy’s credit rating was cut two
levels by S&P, a European Union official said.  Greek Talks  Talks between  Greece  and its creditor banks were put on
hold after negotiations in  Athens  failed to yield an agreement.
A proposal put forward by the steering committee representing
financial firms has “not produced a constructive consolidated
response by all parties,” the  Institute of International
Finance  said.  The  Stoxx 600  finished the week higher even after declining
on four of the five days. The gauge jumped 1.8 percent on Jan.
10, the most in three weeks.  RBS rallied 18 percent this week. Britain’s biggest
government-owned lender is to cut about 4,800 jobs including
3,500 at the investment bank as it jettisons unprofitable units,
citing volatile markets and the cost of new U.K. regulation.  UniCredit rose 11 percent. Analysts at UBS AG and Citigroup
Inc. recommended buying the shares after they fell to a record
low on Jan. 9. Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl gained 15 percent,
the most since September, and ING increased 11 percent.  Commerzbank Climbs  Commerzbank surged 16 percent.  Germany ’s second-largest
lender plans to raise capital to levels required by the European
Banking Authority without asking taxpayers for aid, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The EBA may this year postpone the annual  stress test  for
banks usually published in July, Handelsblatt reported.  Rio Tinto Group led mining companies higher as copper
advanced. The shares added 7.5 percent, the most in more than a
month. Vedanta Resources Plc climbed 7.9 percent.  Retail stocks posted the biggest decline on the Stoxx 600
this week. Tesco plunged 19 percent in London trading as the
U.K.’s biggest supermarket chain canceled predictions for 10
percent earnings growth in the 2013 financial year. Smaller
rival J Sainsbury Plc dropped 4.9 percent.  Home Retail Group slid 7.8 percent after the owner of the
Argos and Homebase chains forecast a drop in annual profit and
said it plans a “significant” dividend cut.  Delhaize Group fell 7.7 percent in Brussels trading, the
most since August. The Belgian owner of the U.S. Food Lion
supermarkets reported sales that missed analysts’ estimates and
said it will close 146 unprofitable stores.  Metro AG, Germany’s largest retailer, declined 6 percent
after UBS cut the stock to “sell” from “neutral”.  Elsewhere, Repsol YPF SA sank 6.2 percent after  Spain ’s
biggest oil company sold 1.39 billion euros of shares at the low
end of a pricing range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Toronto at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  