-- European Stocks May Slide 10% in Next Three Months, Goldman’s Moser Says
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-01-13T15:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/european-stocks-may-drop-10-in-next-three-months-goldman-strategist-says.html
European stocks  may drop as much as
10 percent amid concern the region’s sovereign-debt crisis will
harm the economy, before recovering in the second half of 2012,
according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  might decline to 225 in the next
three months, Gerald Moser, Goldman Sachs’s London-based equity
strategist, said at the bank’s Global Strategy conference in
Zurich today. He expects the gauge to recover in the second half
of the year to close at 250 to 270, a gain of as much as 20
percent from the trough. The index fell 0.6 percent to 247.97 at
3:09 p.m. in  London  today.  “It will be a difficult year to navigate,” Moser said.
“Investors are worried as there is a lot of uncertainty
regarding the short-term outcome of the crisis, but we would
expect equities to move higher on some resolution and a
narrowing of spreads on a sustainable basis.”  The Stoxx 600 has advanced 2.5 percent since the beginning
of this year as economic reports around the world exceeded
forecasts and falling bond yields in the euro area eased concern
that the debt crisis is spreading.  “Some resolution, likely driven by an agreement between
France and  Germany  on how to socialize the debt burden, is
likely in the next couple of months,” Moser said.  Goldman Sachs forecast a 10 percent drop in European
profits in 2012, excluding financial companies. Moser said he
wouldn’t be surprised to see analysts’ earnings projections cut
by as much as 30 percent.  Valuation Discount  The Stoxx 600 trades at 10 times estimated profits, a
discount of 16 percent to its average  price-earnings ratio  of
11.9 in the past five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Equities are an attractive asset class versus bonds,”
Moser said. “Although the markets are fairly cheap, valuation
is not everything. We’ll first have to see better clarity and
less uncertainty for the market to change direction.”  Moser recommended buying shares of European companies that
rely on  emerging markets  for revenue rather than those mainly
exposed to the domestic economy, which will “face difficult
times in  Europe .”  “It isn’t so much European growth that matters, but
overall global growth,” he said. “Companies with a global
reach are going to be able to generate growth in the next
years.”  For 2012, Goldman Sachs has an “overweight” rating on the
 health-care , oil and gas and telecommunications industries,
citing strong dividends and cash flows that may provide a “nice
cushion if the market falls.”  On the other hand, Moser said he is “underweight” in
financial shares as well as the food and beverage industry as
they have “structural issues and are extremely expensive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  