-- Euro Weakens, Reversing Earlier Gains, After Italian Auction Disappoints
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-01-13T12:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/euro-heads-for-first-weekly-gain-in-six-on-italy-bond-gains-ecb-optimism.html
The euro weakened versus the dollar
and the yen, reversing earlier gains, after Italian borrowing
costs declined less at a note sale today than when the country
auctioned bills yesterday.  The 17-nation currency dropped against all but one of its
16 major counterparts and pared its weekly advance versus the
dollar on concern recent measures by European leaders will still
fail to resolve the region’s debt crisis. The  Dollar Index (DXY) 
headed for a weekly drop before a U.S. report that economists
said will show  consumer confidence  improved this month, reducing
demand for the U.S. currency as a haven.  “Expectations were built up quite significantly following
yesterday’s auction” in Italy, said  Ian Stannard , head of
European currency strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “Any
rebound we see in euro-dollar is going to remain limited, and we
remain bearish over the medium term.”  The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.2787 at 7:26 a.m. New York
time, paring this week’s gain to 0.6 percent, still the first
five-day advance since the period ended Dec. 2. The single
currency dropped 0.2 percent to 98.14 yen, after rising as much
as 0.5 percent. The dollar was little changed at 76.75 yen.  The common currency is set to weaken toward $1.25 by the
end of March, and decline to around $1.20 later in the year,
Stannard said.  Italy  Sales  Italy sold notes due in November 2014 at an average yield
of 4.83 percent, down from 5.62 percent at a prior auction on
Dec. 29. Investors bid for 1.2 times the amount allotted, down
from 1.36 last month. The Treasury also sold debt due in July
2014 and August 2018.  The nation’s cost of borrowing for one year plunged to
2.735 percent at a bill sale yesterday, from 5.952 percent yield
at the prior auction on Dec. 12.  The euro still headed for its first weekly gain in six
weeks after  Spain  sold twice the maximum target at a note
auction yesterday, raising 9.98 billion euros.  “Mixed bond auctions in Italy disappointed a market that
had become somewhat euphoric after the Spanish result
yesterday,”  Adam Cole , global head of foreign-exchange strategy
at RBC Europe Ltd. in London, wrote in a note to clients. “An
early rally in euro-dollar has subsequently gone into reverse.”  The euro strengthened yesterday after the  European Central
Bank  kept  interest rates  on hold and President  Mario Draghi  said
policy makers have averted a credit shortage.  Speaking in  Frankfurt  after the ECB’s policy meeting,
Draghi said the central bank’s massive injection of cash into
the financial system last month is beginning to flow through
into credit markets. “There are tentative signs of
stabilization of economic activity at low levels,” he said.  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, was little changed at 80.947, having declined
0.4 percent this week.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 consumer confidence  index rose to 71.5 for January, matching a
seven-month high, from 69.9 in December, according to a
Bloomberg survey before today’s report.  The dollar has depreciated 0.5 percent in the past week,
the third-worst performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The euro has risen 0.1 percent.  Gains in the euro may be tempered as it approaches levels
of so-called resistance at $1.2860 and $1.2933, according to
 Karen Jones , head of fixed-income, commodity and currency
technical analysis at Commerzbank AG in  London . These represent
last-year’s low and a short-term down channel, she said.  “These are tougher resistances and while capped here, a
negative bias will remain entrenched,” Jones wrote today in a
note to clients. “Our longer-term target is $1.2083, the 200-
month moving average.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  