-- European Stocks Drop Amid Reports of S&P Downgrades in Euro Area
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-01-13T16:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/european-stock-index-futures-advance-before-italy-plans-sale-of-more-debt.html
European (SXXP)  stocks declined for a third
day, with the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index trimming a weekly
advance, after reports that  Standard & Poor’s  is close to
downgrading several euro-area countries.  Vodafone Group Plc led losses, falling to a three-week low.
Novartis AG dropped after saying it will take $1.22 billion of
charges.  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  slumped 19 percent after revealing 60
million pounds ($92 million) in additional costs.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) 
rose after German newspaper Handelsblatt reported that the
lender will raise its capital without seeking government aid.  The  Stoxx 600  slipped 0.1 percent to 249.18 in  London . The
gauge still gained 0.7 percent this week as borrowing costs
dropped at sovereign-bond auctions in the euro area.  “It’s not as if we didn’t know that several  European (SXXP) 
countries were going to be downgraded,” said  Angus Campbell ,
head of sales at Capital Spreads in London. “When the rumor
comes, you get a knee-jerk reaction, and sometimes you can get a
rebound once the rumor is confirmed.”  The downgrades may happen as soon as today, according to
government officials and people familiar with the matter. 
Germany’s rating will not be cut, they said.  French Rating  S&P is stripping  France  of its AAA credit rating for the
first time,  Agence France-Presse  reported, citing an
unidentified government official. French President Nicolas
Sarkozy’s spokesman Franck Louvrier declined to comment on
reports today that the government has been notified by S&P of a
cut in the country’s rating.  European stocks fell in the past two days as the German
economy shrank in the final quarter of 2011 and data on U.S.
retail sales and initial jobless claims missed forecasts.  The Stoxx 600 earlier advanced as much as 0.7 percent after
 Italy  sold 4.75 billion euros ($6.1 billion) of bonds, its
maximum target. Borrowing costs fell at the country’s second
auction this week. The Treasury sold 3 billion euros of
benchmark securities due in November 2014 to yield 4.83 percent,
down from 5.62 percent at the previous sale on Dec. 29.  Italy raised 12 billion euros yesterday, selling Treasury
bills. Spain and  Germany  also this week received more bids than
the amounts they targeted in their debt sales.  Consumer Sentiment  A report showed  consumer sentiment  in the U.S. rose more
than forecast. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment for January increased to
74 from 69.9 at the end of December. The gauge was projected to
rise to 71.5, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey.  National benchmark indexes declined in 14 of 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index slipped 0.1 percent. The
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index dropped 0.5 percent, while Germany’s DAX
Index lost 0.6 percent.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said in
 Frankfurt  yesterday his strategy for battling  Europe ’s debt
crisis is starting to work and that there are “tentative
signs” of economic stabilization in the euro area.  The European Banking Authority will this year postpone the
annual  stress test  for banks usually published in July,
Handelsblatt reported, citing a spokeswoman for the EBA.  The test will be delayed to allow time for banks to get
fresh capital to fill gaps documented by the last stress test in
December, the newspaper said. The test may be postponed to the
autumn or not happen at all this year, Handelsblatt said.  Creditor Banks  Talks between  Greece  and its creditor banks were put on
hold after negotiations in  Athens  failed to yield an agreement.
A proposal put forward by the steering committee representing
financial firms has “not produced a constructive consolidated
response by all parties,” the Institute of International
Finance said.  Vodafone dropped 2.5 percent to 175 pence, the lowest since
Dec. 22.  “We see potential weakness due to top line in Europe,”
Morgan Stanley analysts wrote about Vodafone in a report, saying
they prefer rival BT Group Plc.  Novartis (NOVN)  fell 0.7 percent to 53 Swiss francs. The drugmaker
said it will cut 1,960 jobs in the U.S. and take $1.22 billion
of charges to prepare for generic competition to its best-
selling blood pressure pill Diovan and lower sales potential of
the Tekturna drug.  Trading in Zurich was delayed due to a technical fault and
started at noon local time.  Additional Costs  Invensys plummeted 19 percent to 183.2 pence, the biggest
fall since February 2003. The British maker of washing-machine
controls and factory gear revealed 60 million pounds in
additional costs to fulfill contracts.  Full-year earnings will be “significantly” below last
year as a result of the expenses, the company said.  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, Europe’s biggest airline, dropped 1.1
percent to 4.24 euros after freezing pay checks and hiring to
cut costs by 1 billion euros, while beginning productivity talks
with unions aimed at delivering a similar saving it says is
needed to secure the long-term future.  Commerzbank (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest lender, rose 3.4
percent to 1.42 euros, pacing gains in European banks. The
lender plans to raise its capital level by mid-year without
seeking direct or indirect aid from the German state, its
biggest shareholder, Handelsblatt reported, citing unidentified
people close to the government.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, the biggest  lender  in France, rose 2.5
percent to to 31.79 euros.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which yesterday announced
its decision to cut its European investment bank by more than a
quarter, climbed 4.8 percent to 24.1 pence.  GN Store Nord jumped 10 percent to 56.75 kroner after
saying its DPTG unit and TPSA have reached a 550 million-euro
agreement to settle a dispute on traffic volumes carried over a
fiber optical telecommunications system in Poland. GN Store Nord
said its entitled to receive 75 percent of the amount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  