-- Ex-Goldmanite Prins Fears Another Great Depression: Interview
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-01-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/ex-goldmanite-nomi-prins-fears-return-of-1930s-great-depression-interview.html
The conditions that led to the birth
of Occupy Wall Street are very similar to those before the Great
Depression, says former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  managing
director Nomi Prins.  Prins is the author of “ Black Tuesday ,” a novel set in
1929 and ‘30 in which the heroine accidentally discovers dark
secrets at the nation’s largest bank. Prins has also written
three nonfiction books, including “It Takes a Pillage: Behind
the Bailouts, Bonuses and Backroom Deals From  Washington  to Wall
Street” (2009).  In an interview at Bloomberg world headquarters in New
York, we discussed the past and future of the financial system
and the mistakes policy makers are repeating.  Onaran: Why did you go for fiction this time?  Prins: In nonfiction, you don’t have the ability to dig
into the emotional impact on people of financial disasters. You
can talk about statistics, but that doesn’t do it justice. I
wanted to explore the emotional side of the story.  Onaran: Why did you use the 1930s as the backdrop to the
story rather than the current crisis?  Prins: There are so many parallels between the 1930s and
now, they’re staggering. Just like the asset bubble that caused
the Great Depression, our subprime bubble has led to the 2008
crash from which we’re still suffering. So I wanted to say:
“We’ve been here before. Why are we doing this again?”  Rich Versus Poor  Today we have this 1 percent versus 99 percent, the
dislocation between the rich and the poor, between the bankers
and everybody else. That was very prevalent back then, leading
up to the Depression. So the contrast between the poor Lower
East Side residents and the  Wall Street  bankers in the 1930s was
very intriguing to me.  Onaran: Are we repeating the same mistakes of the Great
Depression?  Prins: The  Glass-Steagall Act  was created in 1933 to make
sure banks couldn’t take advantage of their deposit and loan
customers to get involved in the creation of new securities. So
the risk of  investment banking  was separated, and the biggest
banks were split up. But this time around, we didn’t do that --
we didn’t break up the banks, we actually consolidated more of
their risk. We made them bigger. We lost the opportunity to make
the banks less complex and not have the government subsidize
zombie banks.  We’ve done so many things wrong, I’m afraid this will be a
prolonged depression on the economy.  Roosevelt’s Reforms  Onaran: How could  Franklin Delano Roosevelt  carry out
fundamental reforms -- banks had just as much political clout
then, no?  Prins: Banks didn’t see that they were losing their power
when they were forced to split. The same people stayed on the
boards of the new entities formed, so they thought they
continued to wield power in the financial system.  Onaran: Are the banks cooking the books now as they were at
the time?  Prins: Yes. By not marking to market the complex securities
in their books, they’re hiding losses. Second, if you have loan
properties and if you haven’t finished foreclosure, the related
assets aren’t marked down. So there’s massive overvaluing going
on across the board.  (Yalman Onaran writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own. This interview was condensed from a
longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net  or @Yalman_BN on Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 