-- Ex-Syntax-Brillian Officer Chow Ordered to Pay $48.5 Million to SEC
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-01-13T22:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/ex-syntax-brillian-officer-chow-ordered-to-pay-48-5-million-to-sec.html
Thomas Chow , the former  Syntax-
Brillian Corp. (BRLCQ)  chief procurement officer, was ordered to pay
$48.5 million in a default judgment after he failed to respond
to an insider trading lawsuit.  U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton in Phoenix yesterday
entered the default judgment against Chow at the request of the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Chow was ordered to pay
$10.4 million in disgorgement, $2.57 million in prejudgment
interest, a $4.68 million civil penalty, and a $30.9 million
insider trading penalty.  The SEC in August sued Chow and two other former
executives at the Tempe, Arizona-based maker of high-definition
televisions, including Olevia, that went bankrupt in 2008. The
former executives were accused of booking fake sales to
artificially inflate the company’s earnings. The two other
former executives agreed to settlements with the SEC last year.  “In the period when the price of Syntax’s stock was
artificially inflated as a result of the fraudulent scheme,
Chow, in possession of material non-public information about the
scheme, sold nearly 2 million shares, and reaped illicit
proceeds of more than $12.6 million,” SEC lawyers said in the
Jan. 10 request for entry of default judgment.  Chow, who was also the founder of and co-owner of a Hong
Kong company that created phony purchase orders for Syntax’s
televisions, never answered or otherwise responded to the SEC’s
allegations, according to the Jan. 10 request.  Helen Wong, a lawyer in  Los Angeles  listed on the court
docket as Chow’s attorney, said in a telephone interview that
she no longer represents him and that she didn’t think he was in
the U.S.  The case is SEC v. Li, 11-1712, U.S. District Court,
District of Arizona (Phoenix.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 