-- Ex-U.S. Senator Edwards’s Campaign-Fund Trial Delayed by Heart Condition
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J o h n   P e r a g i n e
-- 2012-01-13T20:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/ex-u-s-senator-edwards-s-campaign-fund-trial-delayed-by-heart-condition.html
Former U.S. Senator  John Edwards 
won’t face trial until March on charges of violating campaign
finance laws because he has a heart condition, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Catherine Eagles in Greensboro, North
Carolina, spoke about Edwards’s heart condition briefly before
closing her courtroom during a hearing today on whether to grant
his request for a delay. The trial will be postponed until at
least March 26, she said.  Edwards, 58, filed papers last month seeking a two-month
delay in his case because of an unanticipated illness. Edwards
didn’t identify the medical issue in his request, and court
papers detailing the condition have been sealed in the case.  The former presidential candidate, who was in court today,
was diagnosed with the condition last month and is currently
taking medication, Eagles said, summarizing a letter from his
cardiologist. The doctor said moving ahead with a trial now
would reduce the success of Edwards’s treatment, the judge said.
She said she wanted an update on his condition by the end of
February.  Edwards was scheduled to go on trial Jan. 30 on charges he
violated campaign finance laws in an effort to hide an
extramarital affair with filmmaker Rielle Hunter, with whom he
fathered a child.  Prosecutors allege Edwards, a Democrat from  North Carolina ,
used more than $925,000 in contributions during his presidential
bid in 2007 to conceal the relationship. He withdrew from the
race in January 2008.  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 1:11-cr-00161, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of North Carolina (Greensboro).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Peragine in Greensboro, North Carolina, at
 drjohnnd@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha   mhytha@bloomberg.net  