-- Ex-UEFA Officials Convicted Over False Bayern Soccer-Fix Claim in Germany
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-01-13T15:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/ex-uefa-officials-convicted-over-false-bayern-soccer-fix-claim-in-germany.html
Two former soccer officials who
claimed  Bayern Munich  was probed for allegedly being paid to
lose a 2008  UEFA  Cup semifinal against the competition’s
eventual winner Zenit St. Petersburg were convicted of slander.  Peter Limacher, the former head of disciplinary services at
European soccer’s governing body UEFA, and Robin Boksic, a
Croatian consultant hired to help detect irregular betting, were
found to have slandered the four-time European soccer champion,
the Hamburg court ruled. Limacher was fined 9,000 euros
($11,500) and Boksic was ordered to pay 5,400 euros.  The German team lost 4-0 at Zenit on May 1, 2008, in the
second match of a two-game semifinal, after the first match was
drawn 1-1. Zenit went on to beat Glasgow Rangers 2-0 in the May
14 final. In 2010,  Germany ’s Stern magazine reported the claims
of Boksic and Limacher that prosecutors were investigating
Bayern for having been paid to lose.  UEFA cleared Bayern and asked Boksic and Limacher to leave
in late 2010.  “UEFA was made aware of potential conflict of interest and
of his alleged involvement in irregular activities,” the body
said in an e-mailed statement about why it terminated Boksic’s
contract. Although Limacher “has always acted in good faith”
he couldn’t carry on in his post because of the allegations he
faced,  Europe ’s governing body said.  Limacher declined to comment and Boksic’s lawyer Christian
Baernreuther didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Boksic Approach  Boksic was hired by UEFA in 2009 after he approached the
governing body with information about match fixing and illegal
betting, the governing body said. His exit came after he was
introduced to FIFA’s head of security  Chris Eaton  a year later,
before the soccer  World Cup  in  South Africa .  The Croatian said he worked for a national intelligence
agency and had information about potential fixes planned for the
2010 World Cup, according to a briefing document written for
FIFA by Eaton. Boksic had asked for access to player rooms, the
media center and all hospitality areas, Eaton wrote. Limacher
vouched for Boksic, who failed to provide any documentary
evidence for his claims and left South Africa 10 days after
arriving there and failed to return any calls, the document
said.  “We still don’t know what his purpose was to infiltrate
FIFA through his UEFA introduction but I have my suspicions,”
Eaton said in a telephone interview today. Eaton, a former
Interpol official responsible for FIFA’s response for tackling
illegal manipulation, described Boksic’s claims of being an
intelligence official as “ridiculous.”  Zenit at the time described the match-fixing allegations as
“an insult to all of the clubs mentioned.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  