-- Mexico Said to Consider Seeking Elektra Stock Split as Share Supply Falls
-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-01-13T21:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/mexico-said-to-consider-seeking-elektra-stock-split-as-share-supply-falls.html
Mexico’s stock exchange may ask
 Grupo Elektra (ELEKTRA*)  SAB to make more shares available for trading
after investors said there are too few in circulation, said a
person familiar with the matter.  Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB  may request that Elektra, the
retail and banking company controlled by billionaire  Ricardo Salinas , issue more shares or carry out a stock split, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because he’s not
authorized to speak publicly on the matter.  Elektra has soared 149 percent in the past 12 months, a
rally that Citigroup Inc. said in a Jan. 4 report was fueled in
part by the company’s equity derivatives transactions, which are
causing a scarcity of shares. Mexico’s benchmark IPC index fell
4 percent over that time. Bolsa Mexicana Chief Executive Officer
 Luis Tellez  said that the exchange is in discussions with
Elektra and declined to provide more information.  “We are aware of the Elektra problem,” Tellez said in a
Jan. 11 interview in Mexico City. “We are talking to them about
it.”  An Elektra official who asked not to be identified in
accordance with company policy declined to comment.  Guillermo Babatz, president of Mexico’s securities
regulator, said his agency is deferring to the exchange’s
review.  “We are concerned about the matter,” Babatz said in an
interview yesterday.  Elektra  fell  6.6 percent today to 1,249.52 pesos in Mexico
City, the biggest decline since Sept. 20. The benchmark IPC
index dropped 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in  Mexico  City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  