-- Facebook Investor Mail.ru ‘Top Pick’ for HSBC as Russia Expands
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-01-13T20:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/facebook-investor-mail-ru-top-pick-for-hsbc-as-russia-expands.html
HSBC Holdings Plc favors Russian
 Internet company   Mail.ru (MAIL)  Group Ltd. as it is best positioned to
take advantage of rising demand for advertising in the nation’s
expanding economy.  Mail.ru, the largest Russian-language Internet company
which has a stake in  Facebook  Inc., was rated HSBC’s “top
pick,” while the London-based lender initiated an
“underweight” recommendation for Yandex, operator of Russia’s
most popular search engine, according to a research report from
analysts Jean Kaplan and Herve Drouet e-mailed today.  Internet advertising  in Russia will increase 25 percent
this year from 2011, while the overall ad market will probably
expand 10 percent, Kaplan said by e-mail from  London . The
Internet’s share of total advertising will jump to 26 percent by
2018, from 14 percent last year, as more Russians buy computers
and access the web amid the fastest economic growth since the
second quarter of 2010.  Russia  has a “significantly unpenetrated ad market with
catch-up potential and the Internet is the fastest growing
segment,” the analysts wrote. “Our review of Yandex and
Mail.ru finds that both are avoiding the big mistakes of the
past and both have viable long-term strategies.”  Moscow-based Mail.ru’s “non-operating assets,” such as
its 2.3 percent stake in Facebook, the world’s most popular
social-networking service that is targeting an initial public
offering this year, are undervalued by the market, the HSBC
analysts said. Investments that could be sold make up 50 percent
of the $5.5 billion market capitalization of Mail.ru, which also
owns stakes in Groupon Inc., the largest Internet daily deal
site, and Facebook games developer Zynga Inc., according to the
report.  Social Networking  HSBC rated Mail.ru shares “overweight,” saying the
company will maintain its hold on 30 percent of Russia’s
Internet display ad market.  London-listed depositary receipts of Mail.ru fell 1.7
percent to $26.25 by the close, after slumping 28 percent in
their first year of trading in 2011. HSBC has a 12-month price
target of $39.60 for the shares.  Mail.ru operates Russia’s social networking sites  Moy Mir 
and  Odnoklassniki , both of which have audiences exceeding 18
million people a month, according to the company. Mail.ru also
owns a 40 percent stake in Vkontakte, Russia’s biggest social
networking website and a key portal for building support for
protests against the results of December’s parliamentary
elections, where Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s party retained
its majority.  Yandex ‘Expensive’  While HSBC predicts the price of Yandex’s U.S.-traded
shares will climb 0.4 percent over the next 12 months, the bank
sees the stock as “expensive,” and expects investor enthusiasm
for the company to be curbed after a ban on selling shares
bought in Yandex’s April initial public offering ended in
November.  “The fact that half its share capital belongs to strategic
pre-IPO investors could mean short- to medium-term selling
pressure,” the analysts wrote. Yandex will retain its 70
percent share of the Russian Internet search market and remain
dominant in the sector, according to the note.  American depositary receipts by  Yandex (YNDX)  fell 1.4 percent to
$18.78 at 3:05 p.m. in New York and have slumped 52 percent
since they first started trading in May.  HSBC rated Moscow-based  CTC Media (CTCM)  Inc. “neutral,” saying
that the U.S. traded company that runs the country’s fifth-most
popular national television station is in an “uncertain
position in the near term,” according to the note.  Market share for the company’s flagship CTC channel will
decline further and its advertising market will probably shrink
to 14 percent by 2018, from 17 percent in 2010, Kaplan and
Drouet wrote. Further management changes at CTC, which lost
Chief Executive Officer Anton Kudryashov to mobile-phone
provider VimpelCom Ltd. in December, could also be
destabilizing, the report said.  CTC Media dropped 0.8 percent to $9.12 in New York and HSBC
set the 12-month target price for the stock of $10.20 per share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  