-- Bullard Sees Some Risk Fed’s Interest Rate Forecasts May Mislead Markets
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2012-01-13T20:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/fed-s-bullard-sees-some-risk-rate-forecasts-mislead-markets.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis 
President  James Bullard  said policy makers’  interest rate 
forecasts may be misinterpreted by markets as a commitment for
the future path of policy.  “There is some risk of that,” Bullard said on a
conference call with reporters today. “Although I think markets
will soon discover that there’s one projection at some point in
time, and if the economic situation changes dramatically,” then
the forecasts will change, he said.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will start announcing
policy makers’ forecasts for their benchmark interest rate after
their Jan. 24-25 meeting. Bullard said he supports the decision,
which is the latest step in Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s drive for
greater openness.  Seventeen Fed officials -- 12 regional bank presidents,
including Bullard, and five members of the Washington-based
Board of Governors -- will make forecasts for the federal funds
rate, the central bank’s  benchmark interest rate . The Fed’s
target for the rate has been held at between zero and 0.25
percent since December 2008.  “It’s not going to be perfect” because “you still have
17 possible paths,” Bullard said later in response to audience
questions after a speech in St. Louis. “I think it will be a
little bit helpful.”  Swedish Example  The 50-year-old official, who doesn’t vote on monetary
policy this year, pointed to Sweden’s Riksbank as an example of
a central bank that has deviated from its published interest-
rate forecasts.  “The notion that this tells you a whole lot about what’s
going to happen is not right,” Bullard said. “I’m open to
considering other ways to communicate the same information,”
such as releasing a quarterly inflation report, as the  Bank of
England  does.  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  also said this week that policy makers’ rate projections
shouldn’t be viewed as a “commitment.” Plosser said they won’t
reduce the central bank’s flexibility to alter its policies in
part because they’re released every quarter.  The format for communicating the Fed’s goals is “open to
some change going forward,” Bullard said. Last week, he said in
a Bloomberg radio interview that “we are very close to having
inflation targeting in the U.S.”  Bullard told reporters after the speech that he believes
the central bank should “stand pat” on its current level of
accommodation, given that economic “data has been strong in the
last two months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  