-- Fed’s Lacker Says There’s No ‘Compelling Case’ for More Monetary Stimulus
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-01-13T20:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/fed-s-lacker-sees-modest-u-s-economic-expansion-of-2-to-2-5-this-year.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said he still doesn’t see the need for
additional monetary stimulus and the central bank should avoid
targeting specific markets such as mortgage debt with its
policies.  “I am still where I was a month or two ago when I said I
didn’t see a compelling case for further stimulus,” Lacker told
reporters after a speech to the Risk Management Association in
Richmond, Virginia. “The record of the last year and a half is
that stimulus raised inflation and didn’t do much for growth on
a sustained basis. And I think if we did it again, that is what
would happen.”  U.S. central bankers will meet Jan. 24-25 amid a forecast
for moderate 2012 growth by private forecasters that is unlikely
to be strong enough to pull down the  unemployment rate  from a
current 8.5 percent. The comments from Lacker, a voting member
of the  Federal Open Market Committee  this year, suggest he might
dissent against further monetary stimulus unless the economy
faces the risk of deflation or a slump in growth.  The Richmond Fed chief in the text of his remarks told the
group of risk managers in the Virginia capital that the year
should bring “with it more modest expectations for monetary
policy.”  “My takeaway from 2011 is the lesson that the impediments
to more rapid U.S. growth are likely to be deeper and more
persistent than we thought a year ago,” Lacker said. “I am
expecting only a modest improvement for 2012.”  Growth Projection  Lacker forecast the economy will grow 2 percent to 2.5
percent this year. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News this
month predict the economy will expand 2.3 percent, according to
the median estimate. Fed officials estimated in November that
growth of 2.4 percent to 2.7 percent is needed to absorb unused
productive capacity.  He also said he sees inflation of about 2 percent. The
figure could be lower if global growth slows, he said. “But I
still view the risks to inflation as tilted to the upside.” The
personal consumption expenditures price index excluding food and
energy rose 1.7 percent for the 12 months ending November.  Fed speakers have also been urging this month more policy
action on housing to help boost overall growth.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  submitted a 26-page staff
white paper on U.S. housing markets to members of Congress
earlier this month, calling it “a framework for thinking about
certain issues and tradeoffs.”  Housing, Economy  “Some actions that cause greater losses to be sustained by
the” government-sponsored enterprises or GSEs “in the near
term might be in the interest of taxpayers to pursue if those
actions result in a quicker and more vigorous economic
recovery,” the paper said.  GSEs include housing finance companies  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , which are now under government conservatorship.  Lacker called the paper “something of a break” from the
central bank’s posture of avoiding fiscal policy
recommendations, and suggested the central bank should also
refrain from buying mortgage-backed securities.  “I don’t think we should be targeting a specific market,
even a market as dear to Americans’ heart as the housing
market,” Lacker said.  ‘Lengthy Adjustment’  The U.S. housing market “appears to be in for a lengthy
adjustment process” as the market deals with oversupply and
tighter lending standards, Lacker said.  “Substantial real income gains will be required before
demand catches up to the current housing stock,” he said in the
text of his remarks.  Payrolls rose by 200,000 in December, double the previous
month’s gain. The  jobless rate  fell to 8.5 percent, while hours
worked and earnings climbed. Sustained hiring is needed to
support household spending which accounts for about 70 percent
of the  U.S. economy .  Lacker called the jobs report “a heartening sign of a
potential firming trend.” Still, the labor markets are
struggling with skill mismatches that arise as workers from
slow-growing industries such as construction seek to find jobs
in faster-growing ones.  “Labor-market mismatch might account for between 0.8 and
1.4 percentage points of the increase in unemployment in this
recession” according to one study, the Richmond Fed president
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres at   ctorres3@bloomberg.net  and  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  