-- Evans Says Jobless Rate May Rise as Progress ‘Transitory’
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-01-13T19:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/fed-s-evans-says-policy-risks-errors-of-japan-great-depression.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the drop in the  unemployment rate 
to 8.5 percent may be partially reversed in coming months.  “I’m a little concerned that the most recent improvement
is going to be transitory and it might move up above 8.5
percent,” Evans said in response to audience questions after a
speech today in Carmel,  Indiana .  Evans said he forecasts that “at the end of the year,
we’re not going to be very different from 8.5 percent
unemployment.”  Fed policy makers will discuss at their Jan. 24-25 meeting
in  Washington  whether more steps are needed to bolster an
expanding U.S. economy. Employers last year added 1.64 million
workers, the best year for the American worker since 2006. Even
with the gain, little headway has been made in recovering the
8.75 million jobs lost as a result of the recession that ended
in June 2009.  The Labor Department said last week that the  unemployment
rate  dropped to 8.5 percent, down from 8.7 percent in November,
8.9 percent in October and 9.4 percent in December 2010.  Speaking to reporters after his speech, Evans said he
“can’t discount the possibility” that the “headwinds” facing
the economy could cause growth to slow, as happened in the
summer of 2010 and 2011.  Policies in Place  “I’d prefer to have accommodative policies in place to
make sure we don’t have to do that again,” he said. “If we
behave very aggressively, we could find improved economic
performance one or two years faster than if we didn’t take those
actions.”  Evans said that after seeing “reasonably decent growth”
in the fourth quarter of 2011, the expansion could slow to a 2
percent to 2.5 percent pace, which would be too weak to lower
unemployment. If people return to the  labor force , that could
cause unemployment to increase, he said.  The weakness in the economy means that “substantial”
monetary stimulus is called for, he told reporters, and that
$600 billion in purchases “would be quite a good place to
start.”  Mortgage-backed securities “could be a perfectly fine
choice for those asset purchases,” Evans said. “Mortgages
might have a more direct effect on the economy.”  The Fed purchased $1.25 trillion in mortgage-backed
securities in its first round of large-scale asset purchases, or
quantitative easing. Including both rounds of asset purchases,
the Fed purchased a total of $2.3 trillion in assets.  Too Early  The speech Evans gave to the Indiana Bankers Association
was the same as one he delivered two days ago in  Lake Forest ,
 Illinois . Evans said that central bankers in the past have
withdrawn stimulus too early, causing the economy to relapse.  “Such errors happened in 1937 when the Fed prematurely
withdrew accommodation,” Evans said at a meeting of the Indiana
Bankers Association. “More recently, the  Bank of Japan  made the
same mistake. Therefore, it is essential that the Fed clearly
commit to a policy action that is measurable against our
goals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Carmel, Indiana at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  