-- Ex-Dow Scientist Gets 5-Year Term for Trade Secret Theft
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-01-13T20:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/former-dow-research-scientist-sentenced-to-60-months-in-prison.html
A former  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  research
scientist was sentenced to five years in prison for stealing
trade secrets and selling them to Chinese companies.  The sentence against Wen Chyu Liu, also known as David W.
Liou, was handed down yesterday by U.S. District Judge James J.
Brady in  Baton Rouge ,  Louisiana . A jury in February convicted
Liu of perjury and conspiring to steal Dow trade secrets. He was
indicted in 2005.  Liu, 75, of Houston worked for Dow from 1965 to 1992. At
its Plaquemine, Louisiana, facility he had access to secrets
related to the manufacture of chlorinated polyethylene or CPE,
used in the making of vinyl siding, electrical cable jackets and
industrial hoses, according to a U.S. Justice Department
statement today.  “Liu traveled extensively throughout  China  to market the
stolen information, and evidence introduced at trial showed that
he paid current and former Dow employees for Dow’s CPE-related
material and information,” the department said.  He paid one Dow worker $50,000 for a process manual and
other product-related information, the U.S. said.  Liu’s lawyer, Frank Holthaus of Baton Rouge, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  ‘Immense Value’  “The technology that Mr. Liou was convicted of stealing
belonged to Dow,” the Midland, Michigan-based company said in
an e-mailed statement today. “Because of his education and
position within the company, Mr. Liou knew of its immense
value.”  Dow called the theft and sale of its intellectual property
“a complete betrayal of the trust imparted to Mr. Liou as a Dow
employee.”  A former Dow AgroSciences LLC researcher, Kexue Huang, was
sentenced to seven years and three months in federal prison last
month after pleading guilty in two consolidated cases to
stealing  trade secrets  to benefit a Chinese university. The
Huang prosecution was separate from the Liu case.  The Dow Chemical case is U.S. v. Liu, 05-cr-00085, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Louisiana (Baton Rouge). The
Dow AgroSciences cases are U.S. v. Huang, 11-cr-00163 and 10-cr-
00102 U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Indiana 
(Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 