-- Nine Euro Nations’ Ratings Cut, Seven Affirmed
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y ,   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-01-14T00:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/france-to-lose-aaa-from-s-p-afp-says-citing-state-official.html
France  and Austria lost their top
credit ratings in a string of downgrades that left Germany with
the euro area’s only stable AAA grade as  Standard & Poor’s 
warned that crisis-fighting efforts are still falling short.  France and Austria were cut one level to AA+ from AAA and
face the risk of further reductions, the rating company said in
 Frankfurt  late yesterday. While Finland, the Netherlands and
Luxembourg kept their AAA ratings, they were put on negative
watch.  Spain  and Italy were also among the nine nations
downgraded.  “In our view, the policy initiatives taken by European
policy makers in recent weeks may be insufficient to fully
address ongoing systemic stresses in the  euro zone ,” S&P said
in a statement.  The first gauge of the report’s impact will come in two
days when France sells as much as 8.7 billion euros ($11
billion) in bills. History shows yields may not rise much, at
least initially. Ten-year yields for the nine sovereign
borrowers that lost their AAA ratings between 1998 and the
U.S.’s downgrade in August rose an average of two basis points
in the following week, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co .  Treasuries Rise  The yield on France ’s equivalent 10-year debt rose 3 basis
points to 3.055 percent yesterday as news of the downgrade leaked. 
Italy’s 10-year yield climbed 1 basis point to 6.596 percent.  While S&P’s full announcement came after the close of trading 
in  Europe , U.S. Treasuries rose, pushing yields to the lowest
levels this year as investors sought the safety of  U.S.
government debt . Yields on 10-year notes fell six basis points,
or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.87 percent at 5 p.m.  New York 
time. They touched 1.83 percent, the lowest level since Dec. 20,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The benchmark 2
percent security maturing in November 2021 gained 16/32, or $5
per $1,000 face amount, to 101 6/32.  Third Year  S&P acted at the end of a week in which signs grew that
Europe’s woes may be cresting as borrowing costs fell, evidence
of economic resilience emerged and the  European Central Bank 
said it had quelled a credit crunch at banks.  “Perhaps this will now concentrate the minds of EU policy
makers making them realize that no country is immune to being
pulled down by the euro crisis,” said Sony Kapoor, managing
director of policy advisory firm Re-Define in Brussels. “The
downgrades have now been expected for weeks so this should blunt
some of the impact they would otherwise have had.”  European leaders are still struggling to tame a crisis now
in its third year and convince investors they can restore budget
order. The French downgrade may make it harder for the euro 
region's bailout fund to raise money and  Greece ’s creditors 
yesterday suspended talks with its government having failed to 
agree about how much money investors will lose by swapping the 
nation’s bonds. That may increase the risk of the euro-area’s 
first sovereign default.  ‘Self-Defeating’  The euro yesterday fell to its weakest in 16 months against
the dollar, declining to $1.2665. The yield on  Germany ’s
benchmark 10-year bund fell seven basis points to 1.759 percent
after touching a record low on earlier speculation that S&P
would maintain the nation’s AAA rating.  Authorities have still to produce “a breakthrough of
sufficient size and scope to fully address the euro-zone’s
financial problems” and should stump up more resources and show
greater flexibility, S&P said. Officials were also chastised for
focusing too much on budget cuts which could prove “self
defeating” as economic growth slows, it said.  Elevated Costs  The result is that refinancing costs for certain countries
may remain “elevated” and credit availability and economic
growth may fade, it said. It nevertheless praised the ECB’s
decision to lower  interest rates  and aid banks for helping avert
a collapse of market confidence.  Regional finance ministers sought to play down S&P’s shifts
or turn them to their advantage as European leaders prepare to
meet for the first time this year on Jan. 30.  “It’s not a catastrophe,” French Finance Minister
Francois Baroin told France 2 television, noting his country now
has the same rating as the U.S.  Wolfgang Schaeuble , his German counterpart, said the moves
vindicated the decision by governments last month to bring
forward a permanent bailout fund to this year from 2013 and
strengthened his country’s determination to stabilize the euro
region by instilling stricter budget discipline.  “We know that there’s uncertainty with respect to the euro
area,” he told reporters in the northern German port city of
Kiel.  Bailout Potency  The French and Austrian downgrades risk sapping the potency
of the region’s current rescue program, which has a spending
capacity of 440 billion euros ($558 billion). The European
Financial Stability Facility, which is funding rescue packages
for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  partially with bond sales, owes
its AAA rating to guarantees from the region’s top-rated
nations. It is scheduled to sell up to 1.5 billion euros in 6-
month bills next week.  The French downgrade and refusal by governments to provide
more credit enhancements would still reduce the fund’s lending
capacity by around a third to 293 billion euros,  Trevor Cullinan , S&P’s director of sovereign ratings, said last month.
It is scheduled to call for bids of up to 1.5 billion euros in
6-month bills on Jan. 16.  John Chambers , managing director of sovereign ratings at
S&P, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in New York that
the EFSF’s “rating rests on its guarantors, and particularly
its triple-A guarantors.”  EFSF Power  “It will be interesting to see what the strategy will be
regarding the EFSF,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . Downgrades could “limit
the volume of AAA rated EFSF paper that could be issued, or the
EFSF could begin to issue non-AAA.”  Investors ignored S&P last year when it cut the U.S. to AA+ 
in August as the world's largest provider of credit analysis 
argued that the failure up to then of  Democrats and Republicans 
to agree on budget cuts made the U.S. less creditworthy. Seven 
weeks after the downgrade, the yield on the benchmark U.S. 
government bond fell to a record 1.6714 percent.   Haven  One difference with the France is that the U.S. is prepared 
to print money, making it easier for the world's largest economy 
to pay its debts, while the European Central Bank is still 
refusing to countenance that option.   ``The U.S. is still rightly seen as a safe haven,'' said 
Fredrik Erixon, director of the European Centre for 
International Political Economy in Brussels. ``The U.S. is a big 
liquid economy with a strong tradition of honoring its debts 
in modern time and a central bank pledged to taking action if 
needed. It’s different with France in the sense that they cannot 
rely on strong central bank policies.''  The impasse in Greece’s debt-swap talks comes three months
since officials and creditors agreed to implement a 50 percent
cut in the face value of the country’s debt, with a goal of
paring Greek’s borrowings to 120 percent of gross domestic
product by 2020. Unresolved is the coupon and maturity of the
new bonds to determine the total losses for investors.  Discussions With Greece  Proposals put forward by a committee representing financial
firms have “not produced a constructive consolidated response
by all parties,” the Washington-based Institute of
International Finance said in a statement yesterday.
“Discussions with Greece and the official sector are paused for
reflection on the benefits of a voluntary approach.”  The government said the two sides will reconvene
discussions next week. European governments have been pushing
for the Greek debt to carry a coupon of 4 percent, a person with
direct knowledge of the negotiations said this week. Private
bondholders said they would accept those terms for a period of
time if they were able to get a bigger payout later as Greece’s
economy recovered, the person said.  The Greek bond due October 2022 rose, pushing the yield six
basis points lower to 34.36 percent at 5:20 p.m. London time.
The price climbed to about 20.5 percent of face value.  Draghi’s View  The first ever French downgrade strikes a blow to President
Nicolas Sarkozy’s bid for re-election after he sought to protect
his government’s creditworthiness by announcing tax increases
and spending cuts. He trails his main rival, Socialist Party
candidate  Francois Hollande , by about 14 points in voting
intentions for the second round of the election in May,
according to a BVA poll for Le Parisien published Jan. 9.  Prior to S&P’s announcement investors had eased the costs
they were imposing on  Italy  and Spain to borrow, sparking
speculation the worst of the crisis may be passing. ECB
President Mario Draghi said on Jan. 12 the central bank had
averted a serious credit shortage and economy is stabilizing
with data showing rebounds in German exports and French business
confidence.  “This decision could upset the positive developments we’ve
seen in Europe in the last few weeks,” ECB Governing Council
member Ewald Nowotny said. “That’s the most dangerous thing in
my view.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Kiel, Germany at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  