-- France Loses AAA as Greek Talks Break Down
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-01-13T19:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/france-loses-aaa-as-greek-talks-break-down-in-crisis-blow.html
France  was stripped of its top
 credit rating  by  Standard & Poor’s  and banks suspended talks
with Greece over debt restructuring, the first blows this year
to efforts aimed at stemming  Europe ’s fiscal turmoil.  France’s AAA rating will fall by one level at S&P, Finance
Minister  Francois Baroin  told France 2 television today.
Slovakia, Italy and Austria are among other countries to be
downgraded, European officials said. Germany will keep its top
rating, a person familiar with the matter said. S&P may release
its report at about 9 p.m. Brussels time.  The decisions came at the end of a week in which signs grew
that Europe’s woes may be cresting as borrowing costs fell,
evidence of economic resilience emerged and the  European Central
Bank  said it had quelled a credit crunch at banks. The immediate
impact on French and Italian borrowing costs was limited, with
the yield on 10-year  government bonds  rising 3 basis points and
1 basis point, respectively.  “It’s a reduction of one level, it’s the same level as the
U.S.,” Baroin said. “It’s not a catastrophe.”  The euro today fell to its weakest in 16 months against the
dollar, declining to $1.2665. The yield on Germany’s benchmark
10-year bund slipped 7 basis points to 1.759 percent and earlier
touched a record low.  “We’ve had a few calmer weeks with sentiment improving,
but the situation was vulnerable to re-escalation,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam.
“There are enough challenges ahead which could be fresh
triggers for the crisis.”  Third Year  European leaders are struggling to tame a crisis now in its
third year and convince investors they can restore budget order.
 Greece ’s creditors today announced they had failed to agree with
its authorities about how much money investors will lose by
swapping the nation’s bonds, increasing the risk of the euro-
area’s first sovereign default.  While confirmation that Germany, Europe’s biggest economy,
retains its top rating could lessen fallout, the French and
Austrian downgrades threaten the potency of the region’s main
bailout fund, which currently has 440 billion euros ($558
billion) to spend.  The European Financial Stability Facility, which is funding
rescue packages for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  partially with
bond sales, owes its AAA rating to guarantees from the region’s
top-rated nations.  The French downgrade and refusal by governments to provide
more credit enhancements would reduce the fund’s lending
capacity by around a third to 293 billion euros,  Trevor Cullinan , S&P’s director of sovereign ratings, said last month.  EFSF Power  “It will be interesting to see what the strategy will be
regarding the EFSF,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . Downgrades could “limit
the volume of AAA rated EFSF paper that could be issued, or the
EFSF could begin to issue non-AAA.”  Downgrades sometimes lack bite. The yield on the benchmark
U.S. government bond fell to a record 1.6714 percent on Sept.
23, seven weeks after S&P withdrew its AAA rating for the first
time, citing the nation’s political process and a failure to
tackle a record budget deficit.  Today’s impasse in Greece comes three months since
officials and creditors agreed to implement a 50 percent cut in
the face value of the country’s debt, with a goal of paring
Greek’s borrowings to 120 percent of gross domestic product by
2020. Unresolved is the coupon and maturity of the new bonds to
determine the total losses for investors.  Greek Impasse  Proposals put forward by a committee representing financial
firms have “not produced a constructive consolidated response
by all parties,” the Washington-based  Institute of
International Finance  said in a statement today. “Discussions
with Greece and the official sector are paused for reflection on
the benefits of a voluntary approach.”  The government said the two sides will reconvene
discussions in five days. European governments have been pushing
for the Greek debt to carry a coupon of 4 percent, a person with
direct knowledge of the negotiations said this week. Private
bondholders said they would accept those terms for a period of
time if they were able to get a bigger payout later as Greece’s
economy recovered, the person said.  The Greek bond due October 2022 rose, pushing the yield six
basis points lower to 34.36 percent at 5:20 p.m. London time.
The price climbed to about 20.5 percent of face value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Patrick Donahue in Kiel,  Germany  at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net  