-- Gay Mainers Look for Chance to Be First to Win Marriage Rights From Voters
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-01-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/gay-mainers-look-for-chance-to-be-first-to-win-marriage-rights-from-voters.html
Maria Woodbury has called hundreds
of voters in  Maine (STOME1)  since March to talk about making same-sex
marriage legal. Some hang up, others say they’re too busy. One
man, who said he grew up as a Catholic, stuck out.  While the nephew he’s raising alongside his two teenaged
sons is gay, the man said he “strongly opposed” revising the
law when they began talking last week, Woodbury said in an
interview. Within 15 minutes, he had changed his mind.  “By the end of the conversation, he really wanted all his
boys to have the same opportunities when they found the right
person and wanted to marry,” said Woodbury, 31, an outreach
worker for a coalition of gay-marriage supporters.  Advocates such as Woodbury are looking to gauge support for
same-sex marriage among voters, who shot down a law permitting
the practice in 2009. If they do get a measure on the November
ballot and it passes, Maine would be the first U.S. state where
gays win the right to wed directly from the public. Court
rulings or legislation led to the change in the six states and
the  District of Columbia  where it has occurred.  At least five other states are tackling the issue this
year. Lawmakers in  New Jersey ,  Washington  and Maryland plan to
push legislation to make same-sex marriage legal, while voters
in  North Carolina  and  Minnesota  will be asked to bar the
practice through constitutional amendments.  Shifting Views  A majority of Americans favored making the practice legal
in 2011, with 53 percent supporting it compared with 44 percent
a year earlier, a  Gallup poll  showed in May. Political
independents and Democrats accounted for the change as
Republicans’ views hadn’t budged, Gallup said.  Supporters of an effort to put the issue before Pine Tree
State voters again, led by EqualityMaine in  Portland , plan to
announce on Jan. 23 whether they will submit signatures needed
to place the question on the ballot, said Betsy Smith, executive
director of the nonprofit organization. Smith said they have
almost twice as many as needed to qualify.  “We wouldn’t want to move forward with a campaign that we
don’t think we are well-positioned to win,” Smith said. “We
have to look at our current level of support, what we
accomplished last year and our plans for this year and make a
decision.”  Avoiding Rejection  The goal is to avoid a demoralizing repeat of 2009, Smith
said. Voters rejected, by a margin of 53 percent to 47 percent,
a same-sex marriage law passed by legislators led by Democrats
and signed by then-Governor John Baldacci, also a Democrat. In
2010, Republicans won control of both legislative chambers and
the governor’s office for the first time since 1966.  Advocates for changing the law have sought to build support
by knocking on 100,000 doors around the state and collecting
signatures to get the issue on the ballot, Smith said. A
presidential election, which attracts more young voters who tend
to support same-sex marriage, may make it easier to win passage,
she said.  “All this leads us to believe that 2012 is a very
different year for us than 2009,” Smith said. “Until we
finally win marriage at the ballot, opponents will always claim
that marriage is supported only by the courts and legislatures,
but not by the people.”  Gay marriage isn’t an issue that motivates Republicans or
that most people are paying attention to, said Charlie Webster,
the  Republican Party ’s state chairman and a former Senate leader
from Farmington.  Helping Republicans  “In the end, if it goes on the ballot, it will help us
more than hurt us,” Webster said by telephone. “The average
voter will see this once again as the Democrats pushing this on
us instead of focusing on the economy.”  Bob Emrich, a pastor at the Emmanuel Bible Baptist Church
in Plymouth, helped lead Stand for Marriage Maine, the group
that spearheaded the campaign against the law in 2009. The
organization won’t regroup unless EqualityMaine gets the issue
on the ballot, which he said he thinks is likely to happen.  “What we’ve been doing is building the network and
expanding grassroots connections to people in  Maine  and talking
to people around the country,” Emrich said. “We need to be
ready so when this starts, we hit the ground running.”  Only Maine and Rhode Island bar same-sex marriages among
the six New England states. New York lawmakers legalized the
practice last year, joining Iowa and Washington, D.C.  New York Step  Passage of the law in New York marked the first time such a
measure has been approved in a state where Republicans control
either legislative chamber. That step “provided a powerful
example of the momentum and growing and broadening support
across the political spectrum,” said Evan Wolfson, president of
Freedom to Marry, a New York-based national advocacy
organization which lobbied Albany lawmakers and is working on
the issue in Maine.  “No question that we are bringing the experience we’ve
had, in victories and defeats, including in New York, and that
makes us confident that we’re on the right track in Maine,”
Wolfson said. In November, an organization in  Oregon  that has
worked with his group announced its intention to build more
support before pushing for a similar law there.  Voters in  California  passed a measure outlawing gay
marriage in 2008, reacting to a legal ruling, while court
challenges have put the initiative in limbo. That same year,
Massachusetts lawmakers blocked a drive to let voters decide
whether to overturn a Supreme Judicial Court ruling making such
marriages legal.  Maine is a strategically smart location to press for the
first popular vote to change the law and permit gay marriage
because of its small population, said Ellen Andersen, who
teaches politics at the University of  Vermont  in Burlington.
Failure, while devastating for supporters, wouldn’t command the
national attention it would in a bigger state like California,
she said.  “Gay rights activists haven’t wanted people to get their
hands on this issue until very, very recently,” Andersen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  