-- Germany Stocks Slide, Erasing Their Earlier Gains; Volkswagen Shares Fall
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-01-13T17:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/germany-s-dax-index-heads-for-fourth-weekly-gain-banks-advance.html
German stocks  retreated, trimming
their weekly gains, after reports that several euro-region
countries face imminent credit downgrades by  Standard & Poor’s .  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and Volkswagen AG led declines
in carmakers.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and  Salzgitter AG (SZG)  dropped with
metal prices.  SAP AG (SAP)  jumped 3.6 percent after reporting fourth-
quarter sales and earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  The benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index slid 0.6 percent to 6,143.08 at the
close in Frankfurt, having previously advanced as much as 1.1
percent. The gauge still posted a fourth weekly advance, rising
1.4 percent, as the  Federal Reserve  confirmed the  U.S. economy 
continues to grow and Spain and Italy sold debt at lower yields.
The broader HDAX Index also dropped 0.6 percent today.  “If some countries are downgraded with a negative outlook
it means there will be more uncertainty in the months ahead,”
said Markus Huber, head of German sales trading at ETX Capital
in  London . “If rating agencies are indeed downgrading some
countries today this will add oil to the fire.”  Dow Jones Newswires cited European Union sources for its
report on the credit-rating reductions. S&P is stripping France
of its AAA credit rating for the first time, Agence France-
Presse reported, citing an unidentified government official.  Greek Talks  Talks between Greece and its creditor banks were put on
hold after negotiations in Athens failed to yield an agreement.
A proposal put forward by the steering committee representing
financial firms has “not produced a constructive consolidated
response by all parties,” the Institute of International
Finance said today.  German stocks rose earlier following a report the European
Banking Authority will postpone stress tests, while borrowing
costs fell at an Italian debt auction.  Italy  sold 3 billion
euros ($3.8 billion) of bonds maturing in 2014 to yield 4.83
percent, compared with 5.62 percent at the previous auction.  BMW, the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, dropped 1.6
percent to 58.45 euros, while preferred shares of Volkswagen
retreated 2.2 percent to 126 euros. Carmakers were the worst
performers in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index, losing 1
percent as a group.  ThyssenKrupp and Salzgitter, Germany’s biggest steelmakers,
lost 1.4 percent to 19.12 euros and 2.1 percent to 42 euros,
respectively. Aluminum, copper, lead, nickel and zinc all
retreated on the London Metal Exchange.  SAP, the largest maker of business-management software,
surged 3.6 percent to 42.94 euros. Fourth-quarter revenue from
software and related services climbed 12 percent to 3.72 billion
euros under accounting standards SAP uses for its own forecasts,
the Walldorf, Germany-based company said. That compared with the
3.6 billion-euro average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
analysts. Operating profit gained 10 percent, also topping
projections. month high.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  jumped 3.4 percent to 1.42 euros, the
highest level in more than a month, after Handelsblatt reported
Germany’s second-largest lender plans to raise its capital level
without seeking government aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  