-- Germany Said to Keep AAA; France, Austria Risk Cut
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-01-13T18:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/germany-said-to-keep-aaa-credit-rating-by-s-p-as-france-austria-risk-cut.html
Germany  will keep its AAA rating at
 Standard & Poor’s  as France and  Austria  face downgrades on
concern about  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, according to
government officials and people familiar with the matter.  France will lose its AAA rating for the first time,  Agence
France-Presse  reported, citing an unidentified government
official. Italy and top-rated Austria will also be downgraded,
according to two people familiar with the situation. A
European official said the announcement may come at 9 p.m.
Brussels time.  “If Germany stays AAA, that is about the best outcome
possible from this starting point,” said  Gary Jenkins , the
director of independent firm Swordfish Research in London.  A confirmation of Germany’s AAA rating may lessen the blow
of a French downgrade as governments struggle to convince
investors that they can cut deficits and end the turmoil that
has roiled markets for two years. Still,  France  and Austria
losing their top ranking may erode the firepower of the euro-
region’s bailout fund that’s needed to tap markets to finance
aid for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  The yield on France’s 10-year government bond rose 4 basis
points to 3.08 percent, while the German 10-year yield slipped 7
basis points to 1.77 percent. The euro declined to a 16-month
low against the dollar, falling as much as 1.5 percent to
$1.2624.  Rescue Fund  A French downgrade would threaten the potency of the
region’s main bailout fund, which currently has 440 billion
euros ($558 billion) in firepower. The European Financial
Stability Facility, which is funding rescue packages for Greece,
Ireland and Portugal partially with bond sales, owes its AAA
rating to guarantees from the region’s top-rated nations.  “It will be interesting to see what the strategy will be
regarding the EFSF, if France and Austria’s ratings were both
lowered, it would limit the volume of AAA rated EFSF paper that
could be issued, or the EFSF could begin to issue non triple-A
rated paper,” said David Schnautz, a fixed-income strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  London   S&P first placed the ratings of 15 euro nations, including
Germany and France, on review for possible downgrade before a
Dec. 9 European Union summit, where leaders made their fifth
attempt to come up with a comprehensive solution to end the debt
crisis. At the meeting they agreed to forge a tighter fiscal
union, shore up the region’s bailout funds and tighten rules to
curb future debts.  Moody’s, Fitch  Moody’s Investors Service followed on Dec. 12, saying it
would review the ratings of all EU countries after the summit
failed to produce “decisive policy measures” to end the
region’s debt turmoil.  Fitch Ratings  is also considering cuts to
euro-region nations rated below AAA.  “The crisis remains unresolved and policy action has still
not been sufficient to contain it,” said  Nick Kounis , head of
macro research at ABN Amro Bank NV. “We’ve had a few calmer
weeks with sentiment improving, but the situation was vulnerable
to re-escalation and the rating downgrades are a potential
trigger for a re-escalation given not enough has been done on
the policy front to contain the crisis on a sustainable basis.”  The euro group of finance ministers will issue a statement
on S&P tonight, a European official said on condition of
anonymity because the announcement has yet to be made.  Looming Recession  The downgrade comes amid signs that France is slipping into
a recession, and may further complicate French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s bid for re-election in voting in April and May.
Sarkozy, who has sought to protect his government’s
creditworthiness by announcing tax increases and spending cuts,
has attempted to position himself as the most credible candidate
on economic matters.  Sarkozy trails his main rival, Socialist Party candidate
 Francois Hollande , by about 14 points in voting intentions for
the second round of the election, according to a BVA poll for Le
Parisien newspaper published Jan. 9.  Sarkozy has tried to minimize the potential impact of a
downgrade. “If rating companies pull it, we’ll face the
situation coolly and calmly,” he said in an interview with
newspaper Le Monde on Dec. 12. “It would be an additional
difficulty but it’s not insurmountable. What is important is the
credibility of our economic policy and our strategy of reducing
spending.”  Sarkozy’s spokesman,  Franck Louvrier , declined to comment
on reports today that the government has been notified by S&P of
a cut in the country’s rating.  Italy ,  Spain   Italy’s credit rating will be cut two levels by S&P,
according to an EU official who declined to be identified
because the decision is not yet public. S&P also cut Spain,
French newspaper  Les Echos  reported. The decisions may
complicate gains in recent days in bringing down borrowing
costs. The two countries sold 26.75 billion euros of debt in the
past two days and yields plunged at their first auctions of the
year.  Still,  Italy (.IT10)  faces more than 50 billion euros of bond
maturities in the first quarter and accounts for about a third
of the 1.2 trillion euros that euro-area governments must raise
this year to finance debt.  “Losing AAA status may mean some investors can’t buy debt
from France, the EFSF, and the  European Investment Bank , but
this is quite a small subset now,” said Roger Francis, an
analyst at Mizuho Securities in London.  A comparable lack of impact was experienced in the U.S.
bond market after S&P stripped the country of its AAA rating for
the first time on Aug. 5, citing the nation’s political process
and a failure by lawmakers to cut spending or raise revenue
enough to reduce a record budget deficit. The yield on the
benchmark U.S. government bond fell to a record 1.6714 on Sept.
23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Kiel, Germany at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net  