-- Ghana’s Cedi Extends Decline as Growth Widens Trade Deficit
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2012-01-13T14:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/ghana-s-cedi-extends-decline-as-growth-widens-trade-deficit-2-.html
Ghana ’s currency, the world’s third-
worst performer against the dollar this year, extended its
decline as a widening trade deficit amid growing import demand
curbs supplies of foreign currency.  The cedi weakened 0.4 percent to 1.7090 per dollar, a third
day of declines, by 2:05 p.m. in Accra, the capital. It traded
at the lowest since May 1994, when Bloomberg began compiling
data on the currency of the world’s second-biggest cocoa
producer.  Demand for dollars “is coming from importers across all
industries,” said Kojo Darpaah, a currency trader at the local
unit of  Barclays Bank Plc (BARC) , by phone today.  Economic growth has led to rising demand for imports and a
wider trade deficit, said Nii Ampa-Sowa, head of research at
Accra-based Databank Financial Services Ltd. Ghana’s economy
grew 13.6 percent in 2011 and is expected to expand 9.4 percent
this year, according to the  Finance Ministry .  “If the value of your imports is more than your exports,
your currency will be under pressure because it means you cannot
accumulate enough foreign exchange,” Ampa-Sowa said by phone
today. He expects the cedi to weaken 5 percent to 7 percent
against the dollar this year.  The December 2010 start of oil production for export and
rising cocoa output were not enough to steady Ghana’s trade
deficit, which widened 8.3 percent to $2.6 billion in the 11
months of last year to November, according to the  Bank of Ghana .  Oil Services  The burgeoning oil industry has led to the appearance of
related service companies that bring their goods into the
country, said Collins Antwi, assistant director of the treasury
department of the Bank of Ghana. Imports include most  consumer
goods  sold in Ghana, as well as food products.  Ghana’s “slowly built” foreign reserves “have been
continuously outstripped by import demand,” Nalini Cundapen, a
London-based emerging markets strategist at Societe Generale SA,
said in an e-mailed reply to questions Jan. 11. Gross
international reserves represent 3.8 months of import cover,
“leaving the country vulnerable to further crises,” she said.  The Bank of Ghana needs to reduce the amount of cedis in
circulation, as “loose liquidity conditions have made it easier
for investors to sell the currency,” Cundapen said.  Given the demand for dollars, which has led traders to rely
on the central bank to provide the currency, “the Bank of Ghana
will eventually have to formalize their foreign-exchange
management policy with the market evolving to a similar set-up
to  Nigeria ,” she said.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  holds twice-weekly dollar
auctions to sell the currency to lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  