-- GN Store Nord Soars as $530 Million Settlement Turns Prey Into Predator
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-01-13T11:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/gn-store-nord-soars-as-530-million-settlement-turns-prey-into-predator.html
GN Store Nord A/S (GN) , the world’s
largest maker of headsets, rose to a more than four-year high
after a $530 million legal settlement generated funds to pare
debt and bolster potential bids for U.S. and Asian competitors.  GN climbed as much as 15 percent to 59 kroner, the highest
since Aug. 2007 and the  biggest rise  on  Europe ’s benchmark Stoxx
600 Index. The Ballerup, Denmark-based company said its DPTG I/S
unit had ended a decade-long legal dispute with  Telekomunikacja
Polska SA (TPS) , Poland’s biggest phone company, over revenues from a
fiber-optic transmission system.  The funds, equivalent to about 30 percent of its market
value yesterday, will be used to buy back stock and reduce debt,
strenghening the company’s finances as it looks to expand its
ReSound hearing aid unit, said Mikkel Danvold, GN’s head of
 investor relations . GN’s $3 billion sale of ReSound to Sonova
Holding AG was blocked in 2007 by  Germany ’s cartel office.  “There is no intention or willingness of entertaining
discussions about selling ReSound now,” Danvold said in a phone
interview today. “If anything, it would be the other way
around. Don’t look at ReSound as prey anymore, but as
predator.”  GN lost a bidding war for  Salt Lake City , U.S.-based Otix
Global Inc. in 2010 to their bigger Danish rival, hearing aid
maker William Demant Holding A/S.  ‘Sensible, Logical’  “They are looking at acquisitions already in  North America 
and  Asia , but not in Europe,” said Poul Ernst Jessen, an
analyst at Danske Bank A/S, who has a “buy” recommendation on
GN shares. “It sounds sensible and logical, but we’ll have to
wait five to ten years to see if it’s the right strategy.”  GN advanced 5.25 kroner, or 10 percent, to 56.75 kroner at
11:44 a.m. in the Danish capital. TDC, Denmark’s biggest phone
company, rose 0.57 krone, or 1.2 percent, to 46.68 kroner.  GN is not looking at acquisitions for its Netcom unit,
Danvold said.  “Our focus is still on growing Netcom organically, looking
at unique market opportunities in unified communications, and it
doesn’t necessarily need a lot of investment,” he said.  DPTG, of which GN owns 75 percent and  TDC A/S (TDC)  25 percent,
will receive 550 million euros ($710 million), as TPSA agreed to
settle two cases where the Danish companies had claimed a total
of 5.5 billion kroner ($950 million) plus interest, GN said in a
statement late yesterday. GN said it will now buy back shares
for 1.3 billion kroner and pay off debt worth 1.2 billion
kroner.  New Debt  The company said it will be able to assume new debt because
it won’t change it capital structure. It will still tolerate a
net debt level of two times its earnings before interest, tax
depreciation and amortization.  “This is a pretty good settlement for them,” said Morten Imsgard, an analyst at Sydbank A/S. “With the debt retired, GN
will be leaner and strategically free to pursue good business
opportunities.”  Imsgard has an “over-weight” recommendation on GN shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net . 