-- Goldman Sachs Said to Offer Bid for New York Fed’s AIG Assets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-01-13T16:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/goldman-said-to-bid-for-n-y-fed-s-aig-assets.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. approached
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  with a bid for a block of
the mortgage bonds assumed from  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , prompting the central bank to weigh an auction of the
debt, three people familiar with the matter said.  The central bank may sell securities held by its Maiden
Lane II vehicle with a face value of about $7 billion, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the deliberations
are private. New York-based Goldman Sachs may have sought the
bonds for itself or clients, they said. Four or five dealers may
be asked to assemble bids this month, they said.  “Goldman’s never been bashful, I call them opportunistic
as a compliment,” Steven Delaney, an analyst at San Francisco-
based JMP Securities LLC who covers real estate investment
trusts that invest in mortgages, said today on Bloomberg
Television. “But Goldman’s not the only major investor that
sees value” in U.S. home-loan bonds with government backing
after prices slumped, he said.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for  Goldman Sachs (GS) , declined to
comment, as did the New York Fed’s Jack Gutt and Mark Herr of
New York-based AIG. The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday
the potential sale and Goldman Sachs’s bid.  The New York Fed halted in June a plan to sell the Maiden
Lane II assets through a series of auctions after its sales of
about $10 billion roiled markets, dragging down everything from
high-yield corporate bonds to commercial-mortgage securities as
Wall Street dealers sought to reduce risk after building their
inventories. AIG turned over the holdings to the New York Fed in
2008 as part of its rescue.  ‘Market Conditions’  The central bank said last year it might resume selling the
bonds “individually and in segments over time as market
conditions warrant through a competitive sales process.”
Securities with a face value of $21 billion remained when the
auctions were halted. The Fed valued the  Maiden Lane II (FARWML2)  holdings
at about $9.1 billion as of this week.  Values of so-called non-agency mortgage securities fell
further and trading shriveled as  Europe ’s debt crisis
intensified after the end of the auctions.  Paul Norris , a senior
 money manager  at Burlington, Vermont-based Dwight Asset
Management Co., said that because the prospect of additional Fed
sales has been weighing on the market, a successful auction
could be positive.  In a “disaster” scenario, a Fed sale could disrupt the
market again by creating too much supply, said Norris, whose
firm manages and advises on more than $50 billion of assets.  The portfolio includes securities backed by the types of
home loans with some of the highest default rates, such as so-
called subprime, Alt-A and option adjustable-rate mortgage debt.
The New York Fed began unloading the bonds piecemeal in April
after rejecting a $15.7 billion bid from AIG for the entire pool
the previous month.  Adjustable-Rate Mortgages  A rout in the market for the bonds has eased, with typical
prices of top-ranked securities tied to Alt-A ARMs unchanged at
48 cents on the dollar in the month ended Jan. 4, according to
Barclays Capital data. The bonds had plunged from last year’s
high of 68 cents in February. Alt-A loans fall between prime and
subprime in terms of expected defaults.  A Fed auction may help the $1.1 trillion market for non-
agency securities by offering new information on current values,
JMP’s Delaney said. Trading has been limited in recent months,
he said.  If the portfolio is sold to an individual investor or group
assembled by dealers in an “all-or-nothing” process, that may
obscure bids on specific securities and “a lack of price
discovery is inherently not good,” said Adam Murphy, president
of Empirasign Strategies LLC, a New York-based provider of data
on securitization-market trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  