-- FTC Said to Expand Antitrust Probe of Google to Social Networking Service
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-01-13T23:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/google-s-social-networking-service-said-to-be-added-to-ftc-antitrust-probe.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is
expanding its antitrust probe of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s most
popular search engine, to include scrutiny of its new Google+
social networking service, according to two people familiar with
the situation.  The competition issues raised by Google+ go to the heart of
the FTC’s investigation into whether the company is giving
preference to its own services in search results and whether
that practice violates antitrust laws, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the probe isn’t public.  Google this week introduced changes to its search engine so
that results feature photos, news and comments from Google+,
naming the new function “ Search, Plus Your World .” Users who
opt for Google+ see personal information about their friends
included from the social networking service when they enter a
query. The changes sparked a backlash from bloggers, privacy
groups and competitors who said the inclusion of Google+ results
unfairly promotes the company’s products over other information
on the Web.  Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the widening of the agency’s investigation. Google disclosed the
probe on June 24.  ‘Benefit Consumers’  “We believe that our improvements to search will benefit
consumers,” Adam Kovacevich, a spokesman for  Mountain View ,
California-based Google, said in an e-mail. “The laws are
designed to help consumers benefit from innovation, not to help
competitors.”  He declined to comment on the FTC investigation.  The Electronic Privacy Information Center urged the FTC to
investigate Google for the search changes, according to a Jan.
12 letter posted on its site. In the letter, the group raised
concerns about the company’s “business practices.”  Twitter Inc., another social media service, complained in a
public statement on Jan. 10 that changes in Google’s search
engine could make finding Twitter posts on news events more
difficult.  Danny Sullivan , founder of Search Engine Land, a website
that reports on search engine marketing and optimization, joined
the uproar over whether Google+ gives unfair precedence to its
own service in a Jan. 11 blog post.  ‘Relevant Information’  “Google’s job as a search engine is to direct searchers to
the most relevant information on the Web, not just to
information that Google may have an interest in,” Sullivan
wrote.  “Google has faced a lot of accusations that it’s favoring
its own services,” Sullivan said in an interview. “Most
allegations haven’t held up. This is different. Google is
suggesting to people that they may want to follow social media
accounts -- but not all social media accounts, just Google’s.”  Google is seeking to fend off competition from  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Bing and Facebook Inc. Last year, Bing began displaying
Facebook data, such as restaurants, brands and links friends
have recommended, in its search results. Facebook has more than
800 million members, compared with more than 40 million for
Google+ as of October.  Google’s share of U.S. searches was 65.9 percent in
December, according to  ComScore Inc. , an Internet market
research firm. Microsoft was No. 2 at 15.1 percent and  Yahoo!
Inc. (YHOO)  was No. 3 with 14.5 percent.  Advertising Rates  In its broad monopoly investigation, the FTC is focusing on
whether Google unfairly ranks search results to favor its own
businesses and increases advertising rates for competitors, a
person familiar with the investigation told Bloomberg in August.  The agency also is examining whether the company is using
its control of the Android mobile operating system to discourage
smartphone makers from using rivals’ applications, the person
said.  “The antitrust issues raised by Google+ deserve to be
looked at,” said Allen Grunes, an antitrust lawyer at
Brownstein, Hyatt Farber Schreck LLP in  Washington .  “When Google enters a business that it wasn’t previously
in and then elevates its own search rankings above competitors’,
there’s the possibility that Google can claim the market,” he
said.  Joshua Wright, a professor at George Mason University
School of Law, said in a blog post that the antitrust question
is whether “there is plausible evidence of anticompetitive harm
-- that is, harm to competition rather than individual rivals
like Bing, Twitter, or Facebook.  “My personal view,” he said, “is that there is no such
evidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Womack  in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  