-- Google, LG Are Said to Be in Negotiations to Collaborate on New Television
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-01-13T22:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/google-lg-said-to-be-in-talks-to-collaborate-on-new-tv-service.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is considering giving  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  first access to the next version of its Google
TV software so the Korean company can build a compatible set,
according to two people with knowledge of the project.  The partnership would be similar to the arrangement Google
has had with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and HTC Corp. to create
Nexus handsets for the Android operating system, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks aren’t
public.  Google, owner of the world’s most-popular search engine, is
working to build on momentum for its fledgling efforts in TV as
manufacturers led by Samsung introduce Web-connected models.
Google has said it plans to introduce the third version of its
namesake TV service by the end of this year, with more content
and easier functions to find shows.  No decision on the partnership between Google and LG has
been made, Claire Jang, a spokeswoman for Seoul-based LG, said,
declining to elaborate. Robin Moroney, a Tokyo-based spokesman
for Google, declined to comment.  The LG TV set would provide an early look at the new
software so other manufacturers can develop their own products
using the program.  Consumer Electronics Show   LG, the world’s third-largest TV maker, unveiled a set
featuring Google software at this week’s Consumer Electronics
Show in  Las Vegas . LG plans to sell a 55-inch, wafer-thin TV
using organic light-emitting diode, or OLED, technology and
motion-sensing software.  Samsung also will offer models equipped with the service
this year, Google said in a Jan. 5 blog posting.  Google introduced a redesigned version of the service in
October after the initial rollout with partners, including Sony
Corp. and Logitech International SA, failed to meet some
expectations.  Google TV 2.0’s interface was intended to showcase the
 YouTube  video-sharing service better, and it opens up the
platform for Android developers to build applications for TV.  Google shares fell less than 1 percent to $624.99 today.
The stock climbed 8.7 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  