-- Greece’s Debt Talks With Creditors Stall Amid Coupon Dispute
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-01-14T16:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/greece-bank-creditor-group-says-debt-talks-on-hold-amid-failure-to-agree.html
Greece ’s creditor banks broke off
talks after failing to agree with the government about how much
money investors will lose by swapping their bonds, increasing
the risk of the euro-area’s first sovereign default.  Proposals by a committee representing financial firms
haven’t produced a “constructive consolidated response by all
parties,” the Washington-based  Institute of International
Finance  said in a statement yesterday. Talks with Greece and the
official sector are “paused for reflection on the benefits of a
voluntary approach,” the group said.  Greek officials and the nation’s creditors agreed in
October to implement a 50 percent cut in the face value of Greek
debt, with a goal of reducing Greece’s borrowings to 120 percent
of gross domestic product by 2020. More than two months after
the accord was announced, the two sides still need to agree on
the coupon and maturity of the new bonds to determine losses for
investors. The IIF had aimed to implement the swap this month.  “The sticking point is actually coming down to what the
 interest rate  would be on the new bond,” Hans Humes, president
of Greylock Capital Management LLC and a member of committee
negotiating the deal with the government, said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.”
If the talks fail and Greece defaults, “there will be a lot of
contagion,” he said. “The ball is in their court. If you want
to do something to head off what could be a disorderly process,
now’s the time.”  Talks to Resume  Talks between Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos , Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos and  Charles Dallara , the managing
director of the IIF, will resume on Jan. 18 as more work is
needed after yesterday’s consultations, according to a Greek
Finance Ministry official who declined to be identified. Today,
the IIF said there is a “tentative plan” for Dallara and  Jean
Lemierre  to return to Athens mid-week, “but this depends on
developments over the next few days.”  Greece is aiming to reach the framework for a deal next
week, when talks on terms for a second financing agreement with
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  officials start
in Athens. A deal on the swap must be struck before March 20,
when Greece must make a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment.  ‘Debt Sustainability’  “We look forward to the resumption of talks between Greece
and its creditors,” an IMF spokeswoman said in a statement.
“It is important that this leads to a PSI agreement that,
together with the efforts of the official sector, ensures debt
sustainability.”  Papademos said yesterday the successful completion of the
swap was imperative for Greece to receive international aid.  “We are fully aware of how critical the situation is,” he
said in a speech in  Athens , according to a transcript. “Until
these processes are completed, the private sector involvement
and the vote on the new loan accord, the country continues to
face acute economic risks. Only once these two processes are
completed can we say Greece is on firmer footing.”  France and  Austria  lost their top credit ratings yesterday
in a string of downgrades that left  Germany  with the euro area’s
only stable AAA grade as  Standard & Poor’s  warned that crisis-
fighting efforts are still falling short. It’s “premature” to
think that Greek debt talks have collapsed, London-based S&P
analyst  Frank Gill  said on a conference call today.  Debt Coupon  European governments have been pushing for the Greek debt
to carry a coupon of 4 percent, said a person with direct
knowledge of the negotiations. Private bondholders said they
would accept those terms for a period of time if they were able
to get a bigger payout later as Greece’s economy recovered, said
the person, who declined to be identified. The IMF probably
sought a coupon close to 2 percent for the Greek debt swap, Le
Figaro reported today.  “In the end, they’ll need to reach an agreement,” said
Matthias Engelmayer, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Independent
Research GmbH. “No one is interested in a disorderly default.”  The  Greek bond  due October 2022 rose, pushing the yield six
basis points lower to 34.36 percent in  London  yesterday. The
price climbed to about 20.5 percent of face value.  The committee had offered a 50 percent nominal reduction of
Greece’s sovereign bonds in private investors’ hands and as much
as 100 billion ($127 billion) of debt forgiveness, the IIF said.  Collection Action  Greece hasn’t yet decided whether to submit legislation
that could force holders of the nation’s debt to take part in a
bond swap, according to a government spokesman who said his
earlier remarks on the matter were misinterpreted.  A report in Ta Nea newspaper yesterday said Venizelos may
submit legislation on so-called collective action clauses by
Jan. 16. The legislation, discussed and approved at a meeting of
EU officials in Brussels yesterday, would require bondholders to
participate in a debt swap that would cut the face value of
their securities if a deal is reached with a majority of Greek
debt holders, Ta Nea said, without citing anyone.  “There is no decision on if and when,” Pantelis Kapsis
said by telephone yesterday.  Some analysts have said  hedge funds  holding Greek bonds may
resist the deal, seeking to reap greater profit by triggering
payouts from credit-default swaps.  “The various parties are testing how far they can push
their agenda,” Engelmayer said. “I think they’ll have to reach
a deal because there’s so much pressure.”  Completed Soon  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who met with French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  earlier this week, said at the time
the debt restructuring needs to be completed soon to enable
Greece to receive its next tranche of aid.  “The second Greek program, including the debt
restructuring, has to be carried out quickly now because
otherwise it won’t be possible to pay out the next tranche for
Greece,” Merkel said on Jan. 9. Greece “really has to
implement the commitments made to the troika” of the IMF, the
European Commission and the  European Central Bank , she said.  The  IMF  had sought a lower coupon than the range offered by
investors to ensure Greece meets the deficit targets amid a
worsening economy. Failure to complete the voluntary swap
threatens to further undermine confidence in the EU’s leadership
during the crisis, as well as deter investors from  Asia  and the
U.S. from buying  Europe ’s debt.  “The current rescue program doesn’t work and requires a
rethink that needs to be done very quickly to keep Greece from
defaulting,” said  Christian Schulz , a senior economist in
London at Berenberg Bank. “The risk is high and the stakes are
high: that Greece will be let go from the euro.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  