-- Greece Planning Law That Could Force Investor Bond Swap
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-01-13T13:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/greece-planning-law-that-could-force-investor-bond-swap.html
Greece  plans to submit legislation
on so-called collective-action clauses that could force holders
of the nation’s debt to take part in a bond swap.  “I don’t think today, but of course the information that
such an adjustment will be submitted stands,” Pantelis Kapsis,
a government spokesman, said in an interview with Athens-based
radio station 9.84 today, according to an e-mailed transcript of
his comments from his  Athens  office today. “This is a part of
the discussions on the deal. It gives the legal ability to add
these clauses.”  More than two months after an accord was announced that
called for bondholders to accept a 50 percent cut in the face
value of their debt, the talks haven’t resulted in an agreement
on the coupon and maturity of the new bonds.  Discussions in Athens between Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos , Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos and  Charles Dallara , the managing director of the Washington-based  Institute
of International Finance , a group representing Greece’s bank
creditors, will resume on Jan. 18 as more work is needed after
today’s second day of consultations, according to a Greek
Finance Ministry official who declined to be identified.  Kapsis was responding to a question on a report in  Ta Nea 
newspaper earlier today that said Venizelos may submit
legislation on collective action clauses by Jan. 16. The
legislation, which was discussed and approved at a meeting of
European Union officials in Brussels yesterday, would require
bondholders to participate in the debt swap if a deal is reached
with a majority of Greek debt holders, Ta Nea reported, without
citing anyone.  Such a legal intervention wouldn’t result in a so-called
 credit event , Kapsis said. Analysts say some  hedge funds  may
resist a bond-swap agreement, seeking to profit should credit-
default swaps on Greece be triggered.  The deal hammered out by EU leaders, Greek officials and
the nation’s creditors at an Oct. 26-27 summit in Brussels aims
to reduce the country’s borrowings to 120 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  