-- UN Nuclear Agency Said to Agree to Meeting With Iran Government This Month
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-01-13T11:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/iaea-said-to-agree-to-meeting-with-iran.html
International Atomic Energy Agency
inspectors will go to Tehran this month to discuss  Iran ’s
nuclear program, two diplomats with knowledge of the talks said,
as  Europe  seeks agreement on an embargo on Iranian oil imports.  The Vienna-based United Nations nuclear watchdog agreed to
the meeting with Iranian government representatives to be held
at the end of January, the diplomats said today on condition of
anonymity because the negotiations are continuing. One sticking
point is whether the IAEA will allow Iran to study intelligence
that indicates that some of its atomic work has a military
purpose, according to one of the diplomats.  A European Union embargo on  Iranian (OPCRIRAN)  oil will probably be
delayed for six months to let countries such as Greece,  Italy 
and Spain find alternative supplies, an EU official with
knowledge of the talks said yesterday. Crude  oil prices  dropped
on the news. France,  Germany  and the U.K. have been pushing for
the step to increase pressure on Iran over its nuclear program.  Iran is “probably hoping to use talks as a delaying
tactic, and to raise the hopes of those in the international
community who think that negotiations can resolve the issue,”
said Michael Singh, a former official on the U.S. National
Security Council, who is now at the  Washington  Institute for
Near East Policy. “All the signals from the Iranians are not
that they’re now willing to negotiate an end to their nuclear
program, but that they’re not.”  Oil Falls  Crude oil for February delivery fell 13 cents to $98.97 at
11:05 a.m. London time in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , heading for its biggest weekly decline in a
month. The contract fell $1.77 to $99.10 yesterday, the lowest
close since Dec. 30. Futures have lost 2.3 percent this week.  Citing unidentified sources it said were “credible,” the
IAEA reported in November that Iranian work toward a nuclear
weapon continued until 2010. Iran, the second largest producer
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, has
maintained that its nuclear program is to generate power.  Iranian Vice President Fereydoun Abbasi traveled to Vienna
in June to personally invite IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano
to visit the Persian Gulf nation. Iran withdrew the offer in
November after the IAEA released its report citing documents
that showed work “on the development of an indigenous design of
a nuclear weapon including the testing of components.”  Iran has alleged that documents in the IAEA’s possession
are forged. The government has in the past refused to address
the nuclear-weapons allegations until it is allowed to examine
the evidence being used against it.  Eni Debts  The European oil embargo, which would need to be accepted
by the 27-nation bloc’s foreign ministers on Jan. 23, also is
likely to include an exemption for Italy, so crude can be sold
to pay off debts to Rome-based  Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s largest oil
company, according to the EU official, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  A ban on petrochemical products would start sooner, about
three months after EU ministers agree to the measure, the
official said.  “Work by experts from the 27  member states  is in a very
intensive phase,” Maja Kocijancic, a spokeswoman for the
European Commission, said by phone yesterday from Brussels.
“They are looking into different options for restrictive
measures with a view to adoption on Jan. 23.” She declined to
comment on possible phase-in periods or exemptions.  Most Dependent  Phasing in the European embargo would satisfy the concerns
of nations most dependent on Iranian oil, including Italy,
Greece and  Spain , the EU official said. Those three nations
accounted for 68.5 percent of EU imports from Iran in 2010,
according to European Commission data.  Amid the European discussions, President  Barack Obama ’s
administration has sent teams worldwide to consult with
countries on managing the supply and demand of oil, according to
an administration official who briefed reporters yesterday in
Washington.  The teams are part of the administration’s efforts to
implement Iran sanctions mandated in a law Obama signed on Dec.
31. The law would cut off foreign financial institutions that
knowingly facilitate significant transactions with the Central
Bank of Iran. The U.S. intends to close down the bank, the U.S.
official said.  Diversify Sources  The U.S. goal is to convince countries that Iran is no
longer a reliable source of oil, a strategy that already is
paying off as countries that deal with Iran have difficulty
getting their financing guaranteed and as nations such as China
and  India  seek to diversify their sources, according to the
official, who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  Iran pumped 3.58 million barrels of crude a day last month,
according to Bloomberg estimates.  The Iranian government said in a letter to United Nations
Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon that a civilian nuclear scientist,
Mostafa Ahamdi Roshan, who was killed by a bomb yesterday was
the fourth victim of a foreign terror campaign.  Tensions over the ratcheting up of sanctions led Iranian
Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi to threaten on Dec. 27 that
Iran may block the  Strait of Hormuz , the transit for about a
fifth of the world’s oil, if the EU goes ahead with an embargo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net  