-- ICE Gasoil Backwardation Returns; Gasoline Falls: Oil Products
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-01-13T14:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/ice-gasoil-backwardation-returns-gasoline-falls-oil-products.html
Gasoil for delivery next month
became more expensive than the following month, a situation
known as backwardation, for the first time in five days in
 Europe  after yesterday’s expiration of the January contract.  The heating fuel’s crack, or premium to  Brent crude , widened
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. Gasoline barges in
northwest Europe fell as Brent crude fell and stockpiles rose to
the highest level in six months. The motor fuel’s crack shrank.  Light Products  Gasoline (MOGEEURB)  for immediate loading in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-
Antwerp traded at $954 to $956 a metric ton, according to a
survey of brokers and traders monitoring the Argus Bulletin
Board. That compares with deals yesterday at $963 to $972.  Gunvor Group Ltd. was the main buyer. Total SA was the
biggest seller of the Eurobob grade to which ethanol is added to
make the finished motor fuel.  Gasoline (ARASGSLN)  stockpiles rose 1.4 percent to 716,000 tons in the
week to yesterday as shipments arrived from  France ,  Russia ,
 Sweden  and the U.K., according to PJK International BV, a
researcher in the Netherlands. That’s the highest level since
mid-July.  The fuel’s  crack  narrowed to $2.69 a barrel from $3.03
yesterday, according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a
crude and refined products broker in London.  Naphtha’s  discount  to Brent widened 2 cents to $8.02 a
barrel from yesterday, PVM data show.  Middle Distillates  Gasoil for February decreased 1.7 percent to $956 a ton at
12:29 p.m. local time on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The March contract fell 1.9 percent to $954.  That means the market has returned to backwardation after
the expiry of the January contract yesterday. The front-month
and second-month contracts were in contango or at parity for the
past five days, after being in backwardation since August.  Contango is a price structure to describe a situation where
later-dated deliveries are more expensive than nearer supplies.
The reverse is known as backwardation.  Gasoil’s  crack , a measure of refining profitability, fell
to $17.34 a barrel from $16.78 at 4:30 p.m. yesterday, according
to ICE data. Front-month Brent fell for a third day, losing 0.2
percent to $111.02 a barrel on the ICE exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in  London  at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  