-- Microsoft, AB InBev, Destiny Media: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-01-13T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/microsoft-ab-inbev-destiny-media-intellectual-property-1-.html
Microsoft Corp. and Seoul-based  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  signed a licensing agreement covering patents
for technology used in a range of LG products.  According to a statement from Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, the agreement provides coverage for LG tablets,
mobile phones and devices running Android or Chrome operating
system.  Terms of the agreement weren’t disclosed. In the Microsoft
statement,  Horacio Gutierrez , corporate vice president and
deputy general counsel of Microsoft’s  intellectual property 
group, said the agreement means 70 percent of Android
smartphones sold in the U.S. are now covered by licenses to the
company’s patent portfolio.  EU Nations Near Agreement on Common Patent System, Barroso Says  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said the
European Union is near agreement on the EU’s first region-wide
patent system.  “Frankly, we are almost there,” Barroso told reporters
yesterday in Copenhagen. “There are now some divisions between
France, Germany and Britain on things that are not so
difficult.”  While governments from all but two of the 27 EU nations
have agreed on the basic structure of the patent system, discord
remains “on all points” concerning the creation of a patent
court, Pierre Delsaux, deputy director general in EU Internal
Markets Commissioner  Michel Barnier ’s department, said on Dec.
7. Last March, 25 EU nations agreed to move ahead with a common
patent system; Italy and  Spain  opted out of the plans because
they objected to the language proposals.  “We can finalize this community patent that we have been
discussing for 30 years,” Barroso said yesterday. “So it’s
about time to come to a solution.”  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  AB InBev Buys Budweiser Trademark in Budejovice, HN Reports  Anheuser Busch InBev NV bought parts of Budweiser beer
trademarks from Harvestor, a company that operates a brewery in
Ceske Budejovice, the Czech city that is home to rival brewer
Budejovicky Budvar NP, Hospodarske Noviny reported, citing
Michal Donath, a Harvestor spokesman.  Harvestor, which spun off the trademarks from its other
beer assets in Ceske Budejovice before the sale, will continue
to produce beer in its Samson brewery in the Czech city,
Hospodarske added.  Corbis’ GreenLight Unit Will Represent Martin Luther King Jr.  Corbis Corp.’s GreenLight unit has been selected to manage
advertising, promotion and merchandise related to the late
Martin Luther King Jr. Seattle-based Corbis is owned by
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  founder  Bill Gates .  The agreement marks the first time the estate of the late
civil rights leader has worked with an external agency,
according to a GreenLight  statement .  In the years since King’s death in 1968, members of his
family have clashed over intellectual property rights.  In October 2008, his daughter Bernice King refused to hand
over the love letters her mother received from her father. The
estate had signed a $1.4 million contract with Pearson Plc’s
Penguin Group for a biography of King’s widow, the late Coretta Scott King.  Bernice and her brother Martin Luther King III said they
hadn’t been included in negotiations with Steven Speilberg’s
DreamWorks SKG over the use of their father’s story in a
proposed film. That deal was put together by their brother,
Dexter King, on behalf of the estate.  Destiny, Envirosight Settle ‘Clipstream’ Trademark Dispute  Destiny Media Technologies Inc. (DSNY)  settled a trademark
infringement suit related to its “clipstream” trademark.  Destiny, based in  Vancouver , British Columbia, sued a  New
Jersey  maker of digital video software and hardware for
trademark infringement in federal court in  Newark , New Jersey,
in January 2011.  The company claimed that Randolph, New Jersey-based
Envirosight was trying to trade on goodwill associated with the
mark by using it in connection with Envirosight products.
Destiny sued after a cease-and-desist letter had no effect,
according to court papers.  The settlement agreement mandated that Envirosight quit
using “clipstream” with any of its products and services.  Destiny, which offers content companies a secure
distribution system for their music, had sought money damages
and attorney fees.  According to court documents, Envirosight was ordered to
pay Destiny $3,000, and to remove a press release to which
Destiny had objected. Destiny was given permission to issue a
statement about the dispute’s settlement, containing no
reference to the monetary component of dispute or disparagement
of Envirosight.  The case is Destiny Software Productions Inc. v.
Envirosight LLC, 2:11-cv-00210-PGS-ES, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Leahy Proposes Change to Hollywood-Backed Anti-Piracy Measure  The chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee proposed
changing a Hollywood-backed anti-piracy bill that has drawn
objections from  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Facebook Inc. and other Internet
companies.  Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, said yesterday
he would submit an amendment requiring further study on a
provision requiring Internet-service providers, when served with
a court order, to block websites selling pirated content or
counterfeit goods. The full Senate is scheduled to hold a
procedural vote on the measure, the Protect IP Act, on Jan. 24.  Leahy has “continued to hear concerns about the Domain
Name provision from engineers, human rights groups and others,”
the senator said in an e-mailed statement, adding that he’s
“‘prepared to recommend we give it more study before
implementing it.’’  The bill, which has more than 40 Senate co-sponsors and was
approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee in May, would still
let the  Justice Department  seek court orders requiring  search
engines , payment services and advertising networks to block or
cease business with non-U.S. sites linked to piracy.  The Senate measure and a similar House bill are backed by
the movie and music industries as a way to crack down on sales
of illegally copied content. Internet companies are waging a
campaign to block the legislation, saying it will spur online
censorship and threaten the growth of the technology industry.  The House Judiciary Committee is scheduled to resume
consideration of the House version of the bill, the Stop Online
Piracy Act, when Congress returns from its recess. The committee
hasn’t set a date.  Taiwan Museum Employees Indicted Over Unauthorized Copying  Two employees of Taipei’s  National Palace Museum  were
indicted for making unauthorized copies of images belonging to
the museum, the China Post  reported .  They were accused of making unauthorized copies of almost
3,000 images of the earliest and largest Chinese Encyclopedia,
the  Yongle Canon , which was compiled in 1408, according to the
China Post.  They were also found in possession of almost 4,000
digitized images of cultural works and publications, the
newspaper reported.  In addition to the copyright charges, the two ex-employees
were accused of taking bribes from a printing company that won a
bid to print ancient Buddhist texts, according to the China
Post.  Persian Carpet Wins Default Judgment Over ‘Ginkgo’ Rug Design  Persian Carpet Co. , a carpet wholesaler and manufacturer
based in Durham,  North Carolina , won a copyright infringement
case against a New York-based carpet importer.  The suit, filed in federal court in North Carolina in
August 2010, was related to ‘‘The Ginkgo,” a rug design created
in 1997 by Persian Carpet. The company claimed that Tashi Dhan
Galaicha Udhyog had made and sold “hundreds” of copies of the
Ginkgo design.  According to  one website through which Persian Carpet’s
products are sold, “The Ginkgo” is a carpet containing
botanical elements of a ginkgo leaf, using the symmetrical
patterns of the Prairie Style. Rugs from Persian Carpet sell for
$35 per square foot.  In an order signed by U.S. District Judge Thomas D.
Schroeder, Persian Carpet was awarded damages in excess of
$302,000 and another $6,000 for attorney fees and litigation
costs. The defendants were ordered to quit selling copies of the
Ginkgo carpet and to destroy all infringing rugs in their
possession.  Tashi Dhan Galaicha Udhyog didn’t respond to the complaint
and the court entered a default judgment against the rug
importer.  Persian Carpet was represented by  Larry L. Coats  of  Coats &
Bennett PLLC  of Cary, North Carolina.  The case is The Persian Carpet Inc. v. Tashi Dhan Galaicha
Udhyog, 1:1-cv-00604-TDS-LPW, U.S. District Court, Middle
District of North Carolina.  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Drinker Biddle Hires USPTO Veteran Robert C. Stoll for IP Group  Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP  hired Robert C. Stoll for its IP
practice, the Philadelphia-based firm said in a  statement .  Stoll  is the former U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office 
Commissioner for Patents, and spent 29 years with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office. There he directed the office’s
federal legislative priorities, led many U.S. delegations to
foreign meetings, and helped improve the speed and quality of
the patent-review process. He also worked as a patent examiner.  Stoll has an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering
from the University of  Maryland  and a law degree from  Catholic
University  of America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 