-- Idenix Seeks Partner for Hepatitis C Combination Drug, CEO Renaud Says
-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 2012-01-13T21:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/idenix-seeks-partner-for-hepatitis-c-combination-drug-ceo-says.html
Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX) , the
developer of an experimental hepatitis C drug, is in talks to
find a partner to create a combination treatment to fight the
virus, Chief Executive Officer Ron Renaud said.  “If we think about how we can be very competitive, it is
going to be about combining our compound with others,” Renaud
said in an interview at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference in
 San Francisco . That will be “our whole strategy.”  The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based biotechnology company
finished the year with $118 million in  cash , “enough to take us
through to the end of this year,” Renaud said. There is a mid-
year goal to find a partner for their drug, as part of a process
of “evaluating paths forward,” he said.  The development of drug cocktails for HIV, the virus that
causes AIDS, “is a very good road map for what could happen in
hepatitis C,” Renaud said. HIV treatment involves a
“combination of compounds with different mechanisms of action
and compensating resistance profiles that beat the disease.”  Renaud declined to comment on whether the company may be
acquired as the result of other recent purchases in the
hepatitis C field.  Idenix gained 13 percent to $14.42 at the close in New
York. The shares have more than doubled since Jan. 7 when
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  said it would pay about $2.5 billion in
cash for Inhibitex, a rival in a possible $20 billion hepatitis
C market. Pharmasset, the maker of another experimental
treatment for the virus, agreed on Nov. 21 to be acquired by
 Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  for $10.8 billion.  Safer Treatments  As many as 170 million people worldwide carry the hepatitis
C virus, and current drugs, given through injection, can have
side effects that make therapy difficult to endure. The new
medicines are designed to be taken as pills, with a higher cure
rate and fewer side effects.  On Jan. 9, Idenix reported that its lead drug candidate for
hepatitis C, called IDX184, showed no serious side effects in
patients after 28 days of treatment. Renaud said the company had
submitted the data to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration , and
expects to hear whether restrictions on its trials are lifted
within a month.  “We are certainly going to combine IDX184 with protease
inhibitors, and maybe a NS5A inhibitor,” Renaud said yesterday,
describing drugs that attack different checkpoints for the
disease as it moved through the human body.  While people are “very excited about the prospects” of an
Idenix takeover, at current trading levels, the “valuation is
very rich for M&A,” said Brian Skorney, an analyst at Brean
Murray Carret & Co in New York.  Skorney said IDX184 needs another potent drug to “cover
for its weaknesses” and pointed toward Merck & Co., the second-
largest U.S. drugmaker, as an ideal suitor with its experimental
protease inhibitor, MK-5172. He said Johnson & Johnson, the
world’s biggest health-care products company, also may have an
interest because of its hepatitis C research program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sasha Damouni in  New York  at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Brad Skillman at 
 bskillman1@bloomberg.net  