-- Jamie Dimon’s Plan to Fix the Housing Market
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   P a t r i c k   C l a r k
-- 2012-01-13T20:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/if-jamie-dimon-were-in-charge-u-s-housing-market-would-be-fixed-he-says.html
Jamie Dimon  has a plan to fix the
U.S. housing market: lock mortgage lenders and regulators behind
closed doors until they figure it out.  “I would convene all the people involved in the business,
I would close the door, I’d stay there until we resolved a bunch
of these issues so we could have a more healthy mortgage
market,” the 55-year-old chief executive officer of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  said today.  The patchwork of U.S. and international regulatory policies
governing the housing and mortgage markets are hampering
recovery here and abroad, Dimon said on a conference call with
analysts after the New York-based bank released fourth-quarter
earnings. In the U.S., state foreclosure laws conflict with a
variety of federal policies on refinancing or modifying loans to
troubled borrowers, Dimon said.  Leadership is needed to overhaul the industry, including
reviving the market for private-label residential mortgage bonds
and reforming regulations governing mortgage repurchases and
foreclosures, he said.  “You could fix all this if someone was in charge,” Dimon
said, tapping on the table for emphasis. “No one is in
charge.”  Dimon didn’t suggest that he should be the one to take the
job, nor did he say that he would want it.  Government Agencies  U.S. housing policy is set by federal, state and local
agencies including the  Federal Reserve , Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., Department of Housing and Urban Development,
 Federal Housing Finance Agency ,  Federal Housing Administration ,
Treasury Department, more than 50 state attorneys general and
state bank supervisors, as well as local municipalities, which
enforce foreclosure laws.  Some borrowers have been unable to get mortgages or
refinance existing loans because lenders, along with  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac , which own or guarantee almost 50 percent of the
U.S. mortgage market, have tightened underwriting standards to
require higher credit scores and bigger downpayments.  After climbing to a peak of $11.2 trillion in 2007, total
mortgage debt outstanding on single-family homes fell 7.4
percent to $10.3 trillion as of Sept. 30 as banks curtailed
loans to consumers, according to Federal Reserve data.  AG Talks  The nation’s largest lenders, including JPMorgan, Bank of
America Corp. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , are currently negotiating with
state attorneys general to settle claims lenders improperly
foreclosed on borrowers without the proper documentation.  Dimon also criticized U.S. and international policies that
work against the goal of sparking an economic rebound.  “We’re shooting ourselves in the foot everywhere around
the world,” Dimon said. “If you looked at the inconsistencies
and the counter cyclical and pro-cyclical things, it’s crazy.
It’s not the way to get a recovery going.”  While U.S. lawmakers and Obama administration officials
criticize banks for failing to lend to consumers, he said banks
are hamstrung by strict underwriting rules. It’s no better in
 Europe  where central bank policy is sometimes at odds with local
governments, further delaying recovery there and hampering job
growth, according to Dimon.  “No one is really in charge of putting these things
together and realizing the negative effects it’s causing,”
Dimon said. Conflicting policies will make the recovery “more
painful and slower,” he said. “We all want jobs. This is not
job creating.”  ECB Praise  Dimon praised the  European Central Bank ’s move to provide
three-year loans to the region’s banks and to accept a wider
variety of collateral, saying the policy eliminated the risk a
bank runs short of funds for at least the next year. European
banks aren’t using the program to expand their purchases of
sovereign debt or interbank lending because other regulators
want banks to hold less of those assets, not more, Dimon said.  “It’s quite clear that regulatory policy, government
policy, central bank policy, it’s not coordinated,” Dimon said.
“It’s making the situation worse, not better. Basically,
there’s no one in charge of the global financial system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Clark in New York at 
 pclark48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  