-- Imam Ibrahim Sentenced to Life in Failed New York Airport Bomb Plot
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-01-13T21:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/imam-from-trinidad-sentenced-to-life-in-failed-plot-to-blow-up-jfk-airport.html
An imam from Trinidad, the last
defendant to be convicted of participating in a failed plot to
blow up  New York ’s John F. Kennedy International Airport, was
sentenced to life in prison.  Kareem Ibrahim, 66, was sentenced today by U.S. District
Judge Dora Irizarry in Brooklyn, New York. A jury convicted him
in May. Prosecutors accused Ibrahim, a leader of the Shiite
Muslim community in  Trinidad and Tobago , of joining the plan in
May 2007 and persuading the plotters to seek financial and
logistical assistance from Iran.  “There is absolutely no doubt in my mind that he agreed to
enter this plot,” the judge said today. “No one can doubt the
seriousness of the offense here.”  The attacks, hatched by  Russell Defreitas , a former cargo
worker at the airport, were designed to blow up fuel lines and
tanks and, ultimately, “the whole of Kennedy,” Defreitas said
in a recorded conversation. Three men, including Defreitas, were
previously sentenced in the case.  “I fundamentally disagree with the sentence that’s been
imposed and we will appeal,” Zoe Dolan, one of Ibrahim’s
lawyers, said after the hearing.  Ibrahim had asked for a sentence of 11 years and three
months. He didn’t speak at the hearing.  ‘Violent Interpretation’  “ Kareem Ibrahim  abandoned the true tenets of his religion
and plotted to commit a terrorist attack that he hoped would
rival 9/11,” U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch said in a statement.
“Our courts have dispensed justice by handing out the life
sentence that Ibrahim deserves.”  The JFK plot was foiled in its planning stages with the aid
of a government informant who infiltrated the group and recorded
its conversations.  Defreitas, 68, a U.S. citizen and native of  Guyana , and
 Abdul Kadir , 60, a former member of Guyana’s parliament, were
sentenced to life in prison after a jury convicted them in
August 2010. Abdel Nur, 61, a Guyanese citizen who pleaded
guilty on the eve of the 2010 trial, was sentenced to 15 years.
The informant, Steven Francis, testified at both trials.  Ibrahim, who was slated to be tried with the others, was
granted a separate proceeding due to a medical condition.  “I just went along and hoped it would fizzle out,”
Ibrahim testified at his trial last year. “It wasn’t my
intention to further the plot.”  Michael Hueston, another of Ibrahim’s lawyers, told
Irizarry today that the JFK plan in a sense wasn’t real.  ‘This Conspiracy’  “This talk, this conspiracy -- it wasn’t materializing,”
Hueston said in arguing for a lower sentence.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Marshall Miller disagreed.  “They reached out not to one, not to two, but to at least
three seasoned terrorist organizations,” Miller told the judge.  Ibrahim convinced the JFK plotters to approach
revolutionary leaders in  Iran  instead of using Jamaat Al
Muslimeen, a group that staged a 1990 coup attempt in Trinidad
that resulted in two dozen deaths, because its leader had
recently been criminally charged in Trinidad, according to
prosecutors.  They also tried to reach Adnan G. El Shukrijumah, who is
wanted in connection with possible terrorist threats against the
U.S. and is a member of al-Qaeda, the Muslim terrorist group
formerly led by  Osama bin Laden , according to the government.  In court papers, Ibrahim’s lawyers denied their client even
had the ability to steer the plot to the Iranians.  Kadir, who was a friend of Ibrahim, was arrested on a plane
en route to Iran.  The case is U.S. v. Defreitas, 07-cr-00543, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 