-- IMF Expects ‘Tangible Steps’ From Hungary Before Potential Loan
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-01-13T00:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/imf-expects-tangible-steps-from-hungary-before-potential-loan.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
expects “tangible steps” from  Hungary  before deciding “when
and whether” to start negotiations for financial aid, Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said after meeting the country’s
envoy.  The IMF “will need to see tangible steps that show the
authorities’ strong commitment to engage on all the policy
issues that are relevant to macroeconomic stability,” Lagarde
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “Support of the
European authorities and institutions would also be critical for
successful discussions of a new program.”  Hungary is reviving bailout talks with the IMF and the
European Union after international creditors suspended
negotiations last month on concern new central bank legislation
violates monetary-policy independence. Hungary was the first EU
member to obtain an IMF-led bailout in 2008 and has to start
reimbursing the IMF share of the 20-billion euros ($25.6 billion)
package this year.  Hungarian negotiator Tamas Fellegi told reporters at the
IMF yesterday that he discussed with Lagarde and the IMF staff
ways to help identify “the critical issues” for aid talks.  “By doing so we wanted to put together a clear
understanding for ourselves, what we should do, what we should
think over or revise for the negotiations,” he said.  Fitch Ratings   Fitch Ratings on Jan. 6 followed Moody’s Investors Service
and  Standard & Poor’s  in downgrading the country’s sovereign-
credit grade to junk. Hungary needs to secure a bailout from the
IMF in the first half to restore market confidence, Paul Rawkins,
head of the emerging  Europe  sovereign-ratings group at Fitch,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television this week.  “We fully understand and we agree with the experts of the
IMF and our negotiating partners that Hungary needs to follow
policies that will strengthen the confidence of the markets in
the Hungarian economy and in the Hungary institutions and will
lay the basis for sustained economic growth,” Fellegi told
reporters.  “In this preliminary format we discussed some of the
issues of the independence of the central bank,” Fellegi said.
“Here in the IMF during this week we did not discuss the issues
of the constitution.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  had shunned the IMF since
taking office in 2010 to prevent interference in what he called
his “unorthodox” measures. They included the effective
nationalization of $13 billion of private pension-fund assets,
extraordinary industry taxes to raise revenue for the budget,
Europe’s highest bank levy and forcing lenders to swallow
exchange-rate losses on foreign-currency mortgages.  Orban told foreign correspondents in Budapest yesterday
that his government “is ready to negotiate all the points” for
a loan agreement and is awaiting “convincing” arguments from
the EU on any objections to its laws and policies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  