-- Import Prices in U.S. Fall for Fourth Time in Five Months
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-01-13T13:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/import-prices-in-u-s-fall-a-fourth-time-in-five-months-on-slowing-growth.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. fell in December for the fourth time in the past five
months as slowing global growth held down commodity costs.  The 0.1 percent decrease in the import-price  index  followed
a 0.8 percent gain in November, Labor Department figures showed
today in Washington. Prices excluding fuel climbed 0.1 percent,
the first increase in three months.  Cooling economies from Europe to  Asia  are restraining
global demand while the dollar strengthens, lowering the cost of
goods and materials imported into the world’s largest economy
and making it more likely American companies will hold the line
on prices. The outlook is consistent with the  Federal Reserve ’s
view in its  Beige Book  that inflation remains “limited.”  “We’re seeing signs of moderation in prices, both in
imports and within the U.S.,” said  John Herrmann , senior fixed-
income strategist at State Street Global Markets LLC in  Boston .
“The strength in the dollar is a positive. Inflation will stay
tame.”  The trade deficit widened more than forecast in November as
American exports declined and companies stepped up imports of
crude oil and automobiles, another report today showed. The gap
expanded 10 percent to $47.8 billion, the widest
since June, according to figures from the Commerce Department.  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after the report.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
March fell 0.3 percent to 1,287.5 at 8:32 a.m. in  New York .  Survey Results  The drop in import costs matched the  median  forecast of 47
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Projections ranged from a
decrease of 1.1 percent to a gain of 0.9 percent.  For all of 2011, import prices climbed 8.5 percent,
compared with a 5.3 percent increase the previous year.  The cost of imported petroleum fell 0.4 percent in December
from the prior month, while natural gas declined 4.9 percent.  Excluding fuel, import costs increased 3.4 percent in 2011.  Declining prices at the end of the year only partly offset
increases in the first six months. The cost of imported cars
climbed 0.1 percent in December, and was up 3.7 percent in 2011,
the biggest calendar year gain since 1993. Excluding autos, the
cost of imported  consumer goods  rose 0.2 percent last month and
was up 3.2 percent for the year, the most since 1990.  Inflation and pressures to raise prices “were very
limited” at the end of last year, the Fed said in its Beige
Book anecdotal business survey released on Jan. 11. Several
district banks reported that “upward price pressures from
rising commodity and input prices have eased substantially,” it
said.  Aluminum Costs  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, on Jan. 9
reported its first quarterly loss in more than two years after
prices for the lightweight metal tumbled. Aluminum fell in 2011,
with the benchmark three-month price in London averaging 11
percent lower in the fourth quarter than a year earlier.  Imported goods may become even less expensive because of
the strengthening dollar as concerns about  Europe ’s debt crisis
drive investors to prefer the safety of the greenback. Through
the end of December, the dollar  increased  7.4 percent since
reaching a low last year on July 26 against the currencies of
U.S. major trade partners tracked by the Federal Reserve.  Today’s report showed the cost of goods from  China  rose 0.1
percent in December, and was up 3.6 percent for the full year,
the biggest gain since records began in 2003.  U.S. export prices decreased 0.5 percent in December after
rising 0.1 percent the previous month, today’s figures showed.
Prices of farm exports dropped 2.6 percent, while those of non-
farm goods declined 0.2 percent.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Producer prices are due on
Jan. 18, followed the next day by the consumer-price index.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  