-- ING Says It May Sell More Bank Assets to Speed Up State Aid Repayment
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-01-13T12:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/ing-says-it-may-sell-more-bank-assets-to-speed-up-state-aid-repayment.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  said it may consider
selling banking assets to hasten the repayment of state aid to
the Netherlands, which faces delays by new regulatory capital
demands and  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The bank’s priority in the next two years is to repay the
Dutch state 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) and meet Basel III
requirements on capital levels while completing a European
Union-ordered restructuring, the Amsterdam-based firm said in a
statement today. A “further review of non-core assets” in the
lender may help speed up repayment, ING said in a presentation
posted on the company’s website.  ING has to shrink its balance sheet by 45 percent through
to the end of 2013 from 2008 levels and exit its insurance
business. It received 10 billion euros of state aid and
transferred the risk on 21.6 billion euros of U.S. mortgage
assets to the Dutch government after the 2008 financial crisis.
It has returned 7 billion euros in aid to date and had set out
to complete repayment by May.  “Ideally, we would like to complete the state repayment
this year,” Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen said in the
presentation. “However, given the ongoing crisis in the  euro
zone  and increasing regulatory capital requirements, we need to
take a cautious approach and maintain strong  capital ratios  in
the bank as we build towards Basel III.”  Dividend Plans  ING plans to have a core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, of more than 10 percent by the end of 2013,
it said today. That compares to 9.6 percent at the end of the
third quarter. After repaying its government bailout and meeting
the capital demands, it plans to resume dividend payments. It
expects Basel III rules to reduce its core Tier 1 ratio by 80
basis points at the end of 2013.  ING shares  fell  2 percent to 6.07 euros as of 1:02 p.m. in
Amsterdam today, after rising as much as 2.8 percent. The stock
has still advanced 11 percent this week, after announcing it
plans to sell its Asian insurance unit separately from the
European part of the business.  “Although the less-and-later aspects of today’s message
are a disappointment, we feel comfortable with our ‘Buy’
recommendation,” said Lemer Salah, an analyst at SNS Securities
in Amsterdam. “We are not surprised that ING is giving its
capital position priority over the repayment of state aid.”  ING might consider selling assets such as its stake in  Bank
of Beijing Co. (601169) , ABN Amro Bank analyst Jan Willem Weidema said
yesterday. Divestments of minority stakes in Asian banks aren’t
included into the strategic plan presented today, Hommen told
investors today.  Capital Demands  The bank was designated as a systemically important firm by
Dutch and international regulators. That will lead to additional
capital demands of 1 to 3 percent of risk-weighted assets,
Hommen said.  ING has a target return on equity, a measure of
profitability, of 10 percent to 13 percent by 2015, the bank
said today. That compares with a goal of 13 percent to 15
percent it had set itself for 2013, taking into account a core
tier 1 ratio of at least 7.5 percent.  Cost cuts and investment in its computer systems should
help ING Bank to limit expenses as a proportion of revenue to 50
percent to 53 percent by 2015, the bank said. ING reduced
expenses in its lending unit by 3 percent from 2008 to 2010.
Those efforts are being hampered by higher regulatory costs and
bank taxes, ING said.  Annual Costs  A planned new Dutch deposit guarantee plan in the
Netherlands would add 230 million euros in annual costs, while a
Dutch and Belgian bank tax would cost 120 million euros a year
on implementation, according to ING.  The firm sees 300 million euros in annual savings by 2015
from procurement initiatives, it said today.  ING presented “overall ambitious targets,” Benoit Petrarque, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets
said in a note to investors.  In the fourth quarter ING Bank cut its holding of Italian
sovereign debt by 800 million euros and Spanish  government bonds 
by 300 million euros. That leaves it with 2 billion euros in
Greek, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese government debt, the bank
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  