-- Invensys Drops After Unveiling $92 Million in Surprise Costs
-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 2012-01-13T10:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/invensys-slumps-after-unveiling-92-million-in-surprise-cost-1-.html
Invensys Plc (ISYS) , the British maker of
washing-machine controls and factory gear, dropped the most in
almost nine years in London trading after revealing 60 million
pounds ($92 million) in additional costs to fulfill contracts.  Earnings will be “significantly” below last year amid
cost overruns in rail-signal orders and extra engineering for
controls for eight nuclear reactors in China, the company said.
Invensys fell as much as 27 percent to 166.8 pence, the steepest
decline since February 2003.  “The actual numbers are disappointing,” Tintin Stormont,
an analyst at Singer Capital Markets Ltd., said by phone. “The
wider issue is to get back confidence that they’ve gotten to the
bottom of the problem and that it doesn’t reoccur.”  Invensys’s shortfall caps a week when Royal Philips
Electronics NV reported a profit drop and  Siemens AG (SIE)  cautioned
its targets have become harder to reach. Invensys was already
battling weaker demand for appliance controls in  North America 
and  Europe . A review of a “small number” of rail contracts
highlighted the need to book 20 million pounds in provisions,
while extra costs tied to the reactors were 40 million pounds.  Invensys, based in the U.K. capital,  traded  at 175.8 pence
as of 10:52 a.m. Analysts had estimated operating profit of
270 million pounds in the current fiscal year through March,
down from 262 million pounds, according to the company.  New CEO  “Capital goods is into profit-warning mode,”  Ben Uglow ,
an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said by phone. “It’s the first
weeks of January, and already we’ve had three major engineering
companies warn on profit or talk more cautiously.”  Invensys Chief Executive Officer Wayne Edmunds is
approaching his first anniversary at the helm recalculating
contracts and expense budgets.  “This is the second time in a relatively short time the
company had to take additional provisions at its rail unit,”
Stormont said. Singer Capital is reviewing its target price,
estimates and ratings for Invensys.  Invensys faces bigger than expected costs on the first
contract to supply reactor controls in  China  because of the
complexity of the project, which is being built to higher
specification from scratch on a greenfield site.  The financial burden of the extra engineering and equipment
delivery delays overshadowed a framework contract for signaling
equipment with the U.K.’s Network Rail, also announced today.
Invensys, formed through a purchase of BTR Plc by Siebe Plc in
1999, has a  three-pronged focus  on factory automation gear,
software for railways and controls for machinery.  Invensys’ efforts to reduce its pension liabilities, which
are among the largest in the U.K., have been hampered by market
conditions, the company said in November. Its liabilities are
seen by analysts as an obstacle to disposals or possible bids.
Siemens is flush with cash and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  and Schneider Electric
SA have made acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  