-- Lions Gate Acquires Summit Entertainment for $412.5 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2012-01-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/lions-gate-acquires-summit-entertainment.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) 
acquired “Twilight” producer Summit Entertainment LLC for
$412.5 million in cash and stock, uniting two of Hollywood’s
largest independent studios.  Most of the purchase was funded with cash from Summit,
 Lions Gate  said yesterday in a statement. Both film labels, run
from  Santa Monica ,  California , will remain active producers and
the company expects to save money by combining some tasks.  The accord gives Lions Gate, maker of the “Mad Men” TV
show and Tyler Perry films, the last installment of “Twilight”
and library rights to the first four teen vampire movies. Ticket
sales, home videos and TV rights may generate as much as $1
billion in free cash flow through 2012, Benjamin Mogil, a Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. analyst, wrote on Jan. 9.  “The transaction is a net positive for all parties, but
consolidation in the sector is reflective of the significant
challenges in the industry,” said Amir Malin, managing
principal of Qualia Capital LLC, a media investment company.  The announced terms suggest Lions Gate used about $240
million in cash from Summit.  The balance was financed with $55 million of Lions Gate
cash, $45 million from new Lions Gate convertible notes, $50
million of Lions Gate common stock and an added $20 million of
cash or stock to be issued at Lions Gate’s option within 60
days, according to the statement.  “We think it solidly positions us,” Lions Gate Vice
Chairman  Michael Burns  said in an interview. “It extends our
reach dramatically. It increases the size of the library.”  The new company will realize savings from consolidation of
support operations, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jon Feltheimer said. Details were still being worked out, he said.  New Roles  Summit’s top executives, Co-Chairman and Chief Executive
Rob Friedman and Co-Chairman and President Patrick Wachsberger,
said in an interview they will continue to run Summit.  “We have a business that is very active and ongoing,”
Friedman said. “We’re continuing to operate that business. We
are working very closely with our colleagues at Lions Gate to
make this a seamless merger.”  The owners of Summit formed the studio in 2007 with $1
billion in funding from Merrill Lynch & Co. Last year, the
company raised debt financing for movie making and to pay a
dividend to owners including Rizvi Traverse Management LLC.
Friedman and Wachsberger are also owners.  Summit’s existing $500 million term loan was refinanced and
secured by its assets, Lions Gate said yesterday, adding it
plans to repay the loan from  cash flow  before the 2016 maturity.  ‘Twilight’ Bonanza  Closely held Summit had been negotiating exclusively with
Lions Gate for more than a week. The studio also held talks with
Tom Barrack’s  Colony Capital LLC , which owns the the Miramax
film library.  The first four “Twilight” films, based on the novels by
 Stephenie Meyer , have generated $2.5 billion in worldwide ticket
sales, according to researcher Box Office Mojo. Lions Gate would
also add Summit’s Oscar-winning Iraq war drama “The Hurt
Locker” to its library of 13,000 films and shows.  Lions Gate, known for R-rated horror films like the “Saw”
movies, is trying to break into the youth-fantasy genre
dominated in recent years by the “Twilight” and “Harry
Potter” films.  The studio will release the first of four planned films
based on Suzanne Collins’s “The Hunger Games” young-adult
novels in March. Lions Gate also owns rights to the “Chaos
Walking” young-adult books by Patrick Ness.  Cross Promotions  The company will be able to promote “Hunger Games”
sequels in theaters when the final “Twilight” installment
reaches cinemas in November, Burns said.  “That’s an enormous increase in reach,” he said.  Lions Gate, based in  Vancouver , fell 1.3 percent to $8.60
yesterday in  New York . The stock gained 28 percent in 2011.  Hollywood studios just concluded a year in which U.S.
cinema attendance declined 4.2 percent to a 16-year low.  Consumer spending  on DVD rentals, Blu-ray discs and
streaming services fell 2.1 percent to $18 billion in 2011, the
industry backed Digital Entertainment Group said this week.  JP Morgan,  Barclays Capital  and Jefferies were Lions Gate’s
financial advisers and led financing arrangements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  