-- Irish Wave-Energy Technology Developer Wavebob in Funding Round
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-01-13T15:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/irish-wave-energy-technology-developer-wavebob-in-funding-round.html
Wavebob Ltd., the Irish technology
company seeking to harness the power of the ocean to produce
clean energy, is seeking to raise 10 million euros ($13 million)
by the end of March.  “We brought in a new investor before Christmas and are now
in a funding round,” Chief Executive Officer Andrew Parish said
in a telephone interview. “We are currently in due diligence
with two strategic investors and also the financial community.”  Energy from the waves has the potential to supply as much
as 13 percent of current world electricity consumption,
 according to  the European Ocean Energy Association. It currently
costs about $434 a megawatt-hour, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance data, compared with about $76 a megawatt-hour for
coal-fired power.  “We’ve had a lot of interest from strategic investors in
mainland  Europe  and financial investors in the U.S.,” Parish
said.  Wavebob in March teamed up with  Spain ’s  Abengoa SA (ABG)  to
evaluate potential locations for wave-energy farms around the
world and to commercialize Wavebob’s technology, in a six-year
agreement.  “We continue to work closely with Abengoa on our research
collaboration and they are just the kind of strategic investor
we’d like to work with in the future,” Parish said.  Wavebob plans to install three machines, in  Scotland ,
Portugal and the U.S., in the next two years. It’s in the
process of finalizing a manufacturing tender for its project in
Scotland and is seeking to have a 100-kilowatt machine installed
and working by the first quarter of 2013. The company then
expects to install a device in  Portugal  in the third quarter of
that year and is working toward a 500-kilowatt system in the
U.S. in 2014.  “In three to four years time we see a trade sale as a more
realistic and appropriate exit than an initial public
offering,” said Parish. Possible buyers include wind-energy
developers and engineering companies.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  