-- Iron Lady Falls to the Anna Quindlen Doctrine
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2012-01-13T00:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/iron-lady-falls-to-anna-quindlen-doctrine-commentary-by-virginia-postrel.html
“The Iron Lady,” the new biopic
starring  Meryl Streep  as Margaret Thatcher, was  controversial 
before audiences even saw it, largely because of its  portrayal 
of the aging former prime minister’s dementia.  The current U.K. prime minister,  David Cameron , suggested
the movie was premature and shouldn’t have been made while
Thatcher was alive. Her former public-relations adviser, Tim Bell, called it “rubbish,” while her former Tory rival Michael Heseltine dubbed it “distasteful.”  The movie’s primary theme is loss: of Thatcher’s friends to
terrorist bombs; of her prime ministership to rebellious former
allies; of her husband, Denis, to illness; and of her once-
brilliant mind to the ravages of age. “The Iron Lady’s” creators
audaciously analogize their film to  King Lear .  Contrary to the critics, framing Thatcher’s story with her
current dementia, which her daughter has written about, is not
intrinsically disrespectful. Nor does it necessarily undercut
her accomplishments.  The problem, rather, is that grafted on to what could be an
affecting story of greatness and decline is an invidious, and
gratuitous, moral. Call it the Gospel According to Anna Quindlen, the writer and columnist who enshrined its maxims in a
 commencement speech  she wrote in 1999 and eventually turned into
the best-selling book “A Short Guide to a Happy Life.” “No man
ever said on his deathbed I wish I had spent more time in the
office,” she instructed. “Don’t ever forget the words my father
sent me on a postcard last year: ‘If you win the rat race,
you’re still a rat.’”  Karmic Payback  The film presents Thatcher as just such a rat -- a woman
who too zealously pursued public achievement and spent way too
much time at the office. Rather than universal loss, the
loneliness of her old age represents a kind of karmic payback
for her hubris in seeking to leave something more to history
than her genes.  We get the first hint of this message as the elderly
Thatcher wistfully watches home movies of her young family
playing at the seashore. “You can rewind it, but you can’t
change it,” Denis counsels. (Long dead, he’s a figment of her
imagination who serves, as former Thatcher speechwriter John
O’Sullivan observes, as the film’s version of a  Greek chorus .)
What exactly would she want to change? The vacation movie
contains no policy decision. It must be something about
motherhood. “They grow up so fast,” she says.  The next hint comes when, as a young mother in 1959,
Thatcher succeeds in winning a seat in Parliament. She gets in
the car to drive to Westminster, with her twins running behind
her crying, “Mommy, don’t go” and “But you promised!” As she
hurries to Parliament, she scrapes toys off the dashboard.  Finally, her sins are made explicit. We see Thatcher giving
her teenage daughter, Carol, a driving lesson. They have a wild
time on the road. Thatcher grabs the steering wheel, forcing the
car to swerve right (get it?) to avoid an oncoming driver who is
dangerously straddling the center line. Mother and daughter come
into the house laughing. But this happy bonding quickly breaks
down when Margaret announces her intention to run for
 Conservative Party  leader.  “I thought I was having a driving lesson, but it was all
about my mother!” yells Carol, storming out of the room.  Denis, still alive in this flashback, then reminds his wife
that he’s told her that “business is a bit rocky and the doctor
says I need a rest.” Insensitive to his problems, she prattles
on about running for party leader. “You’re insufferable,
Margaret,” he says. “You know that?”  When she responds with talk of duty and public service, he
snaps, “Don’t call it duty! It’s ambition that’s got you this
far -- ambition! The rest of us -- me, the children, we can all
go to hell! Don’t worry about me,” he concludes, with a mixture
of resignation and sarcasm, “I’ll be fine.”  Greasy Pole  Recalling the scene, the phantom Denis asks how many days
it took her to realize he’d gone to  South Africa . “When did I
lose track of everyone?” she muses.  And here comes the moral: “You were too busy climbing the
greasy pole.”  No wonder she wound up lonely and demented. The  Iron Lady 
was just out for herself, a self-centered rat who missed the
important things in life. At least that’s what a viewer who knew
only the movie might suppose.  This crucial scene is worse than fabricated. It twists real
events to make its moralistic point.  In the real world, Denis Thatcher, who was something of a
workaholic himself, did in fact take a sabbatical in South
Africa and  Switzerland  -- in 1964, a full decade before Margaret
ran for party leader and for reasons that had little to do with
his wife. On his return, he sold the family business to a larger
company.  And Margaret Thatcher did indeed give her daughter driving
lessons. After a professional instructor terrified Carol with a
rush-hour trip through  London ’s busy Sloane Square, Margaret
persuaded her daughter not to give up. “Thanks to her,” Carol
Thatcher writes in her 2008 memoir “A Swim-on Part in the
Goldfish Bowl,” “I eventually passed my test.” That, too,
happened years before Thatcher ran for party leader. Her
children, born in 1953, were adults during Thatcher’s years as
head of the Conservative Party. Carol was in fact taking her law
exams as the Tories were casting their party-leader votes -- a
nice bit of parallel tension that the movie skips.  It skips a lot of things. In the entire movie, there is
only one policy discussion, with U.S. Secretary of State
Alexander Haig about the Falkland Islands, that might be called
an argument rather than a slogan. The Iron Lady never explains
the coal miners strike or mentions the raging controversy over
stationing U.S. nuclear cruise missiles in Britain. It doesn’t
include Thatcher’s assessment that  Mikhail Gorbachev  was “a man
I can do business with” or show her delivering her 1984 party
congress speech only hours after being bombed out of her
Brighton hotel -- a potentially riveting scene. It doesn’t
include the famous lines “the lady’s not for turning,” “there is
no alternative,” or “there is no such thing as society.” It
never explains how she won three general elections.  A two-hour film obviously can’t include everything. But
this movie’s choices all tend toward a consistent end. They
drain the content out of Thatcher’s public role, making it
little more than a vehicle for her ambition, while embellishing
her private life to portray her husband and daughter as
justifiably resentful and her old age as haunted by regret. (Her
son, Mark, stays out of this picture.) You would never know that
Carol describes her parents’ marriage as “truly a meeting of
minds” or that she depicts her mother with great affection as a
“superwoman” who crafted elaborate cakes for her children’s
birthdays, faithfully attended school parents’ nights and took
her kids to enjoy the pageantry of the opening of Parliament.  Hollywood Code  In the days of the old Hollywood Code, female characters
were inevitably punished if they strayed from traditional sexual
mores. Today, female characters (and many men as well) must
suffer if they violate a different, unwritten code. This new
code declares that one’s worth depends on personal
relationships, not public actions, and that sacrificing family
time for the sake of achievement is nothing but short-sighted
selfishness. Hollywood enforces the Gospel According to Anna
Quindlen.  What matters, then, is not the nature of Thatcher’s
policies, or even the quality of her real-world family
relations. It’s that she dared to forge her identity in public,
through what she did rather than what people she cared about,
and that she did it very well. For that unseemly daring, we must
see her suffer.  Hollywood has no trouble with public women as long as they
are hereditary monarchs, who have no choice about their role. It
can deal with the power of Elizabeth I, who had to rule to
survive. But the more democratic, liberal power that arises from
the combination of ambition, competence and popular appeal --
the power of a  Margaret Thatcher  or, for that matter, a Miranda
Priestly of “The Devil Wears Prada” (another Streep character) -
- is more problematic. A grocer’s daughter who becomes prime
minister could be anyone (even if she is in fact an
extraordinarily gifted person). Her ambition thus casts doubt on
the audience’s own choices, or at the very least poses an
alternative to them. Some people do in fact die regretting their
unfulfilled ambitions and uncompleted work. The Gospel According
to Anna Quindlen is not always true.  In an interview with Collider.com, screenwriter Abi Morgan
described “The Iron Lady” as a “very feminist film,” noting that
it had a female writer, director and star. She also acknowledged
Thatcher’s “extraordinary” ability to combine homemaking and
child-rearing first with her legal studies and later with her
political career. “What’s interesting about her,” Morgan  said ,
“is that I don’t think she felt the guilt that I think we feel.
I think there’s an inherent guilt that most people feel. The
thing I think most women struggle with mostly is feeling
guilty.”  These supposedly feminist filmmakers could have portrayed
Thatcher as an ambitious woman who had nothing to feel guilty
about. Instead they chose to inject guilt where it did not
belong. They obscured Thatcher’s public accomplishments in a fog
of private angst. The portrait of dementia isn’t the problem.
The way the film uses old age to punish a lifetime of
accomplishment is.  ( Virginia Postrel  is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel in  Los Angeles  at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 