-- Iusacell Says It May Disappear If Televisa Investment Rejected
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-01-13T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/iusacell-says-it-may-disappear-if-televisa-investment-rejected.html
Grupo Iusacell SA (CEL*) ,  Mexico ’s third-
largest wireless carrier, may “disappear” if antitrust
officials reject its plan to accept an investment from  Grupo
Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) , the company’s top lawyer said.  Iusacell is concerned about speculation that the antitrust
agency will block Televisa’s planned $1.6 billion investment,
said Francisco Borrego, chief legal counsel for billionaire
 Ricardo Salinas , who controls the wireless carrier. There are no
legal grounds to reject the deal, he said.  “If Iusacell doesn’t receive a large investment, it will
little by little lose its ability to pay its debts,” Borrego
said yesterday in a phone interview. “If they don’t attend to
us, Iusacell could disappear.”  The antitrust agency has given no official indication it
will reject the agreement, which was announced in April, Borrego
said. The agency’s discussions with the companies have sometimes
echoed the arguments of critics of the deal, he said. The
companies believe the law requires the agency to approve the
deal by Feb. 7, he said.  A Federal Competition Commission official who can’t be
named under the agency’s policy declined to comment.  Televisa, the world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster,
would acquire 50 percent of Iusacell with the investment. The
Mexico City-based company seeks to add wireless service to its
portfolio of home-phone, cable-TV and Internet plans to compete
with billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB. (AMXL)   Monopoly Risk  Iusacell is closely held by Salinas, who also controls TV
Azteca SAB, Televisa’s closest competitor in Mexico’s broadcast
television market. Allowing the two groups to work together
would risk creating a communications monopoly, the Mexican
Association for the Right to Information said in an October
 statement .  Televisa and Azteca plan to continue competing
“ferociously” in broadcasting, Borrego said.  “All of the very extensive information required by the
commission has already been turned in months ago,” a Televisa
official, who can’t be named under company policy, said in an e-
mail. “Grupo Televisa is confident that it will get approval.”  Iusacell has less than 5 percent of the market, and the
antitrust agency has said it is working to increase competition
in the mobile-phone business, Televisa said. The agency
concluded in 2010 that  America Movil , which has 70 percent of
Mexico’s wireless users, is dominant in the market for mobile-
phone plans.  Last month, the antitrust agency said it had started an
investigation into agreements between phone carriers and TV
programming providers, without naming the companies. While the
agency hasn’t contacted Salinas’s companies or Televisa about
the new probe, the companies believe it is directed at them,
Borrego said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  