-- J&J Marketed Risperdal for Kids After FDA Warnings, Jurors Told
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-01-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/j-j-marketed-risperdal-to-children-despite-u-s-fda-warnings-jurors-told.html
The antipsychotic drug Risperdal was
marketed for children and adolescents by  Johnson & Johnson ’s
Janssen unit after warnings by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration not to do so, a witness told jurors.  Janssen’s marketing to children began after the drug’s
introduction in 1994 and continued until the FDA’s first
approval for pediatric uses in 2006, jurors in state court in
Austin,  Texas , heard yesterday from attorney Arnold Friede, an
expert witness for the state. Texas seeks at least $579 million
from J&J, claiming it defrauded the state Medicaid program by
hyping Risperdal and overbilling.  Friede explained company documents and FDA letters as
lawyers for Texas seek to show Janssen repeatedly disregarded
agency admonitions to not market Risperdal beyond its initial
approved use for psychotic disorders including schizophrenia.  Friede, a consultant who once worked at the FDA and Pfizer
Inc., said Janssen disregarded the drug’s label. From December
1993 to October 2006, it said: “Safety and effectiveness in
children have not been established.”  J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , is the world’s
largest health-care products company. It denies the Texas
claims.  Texas joined a whistle-blower lawsuit filed in 2004 by
Allen Jones, a former  Pennsylvania  state investigator. An
attorney for Jones told jurors in his opening statement this
week that J&J made $34 billion in Risperdal sales over 17 years.  Business Plan  In questioning yesterday, Friede reviewed a 1994 business
plan for Risperdal that discussed “seeding the literature and,
if appropriate, changing current labeling” for uses including
sales to children.  Friede said company policy stated “seeding” studies or
those with “limited scientific value generally designed to
promote product utilization are prohibited.”  He reviewed an FDA letter that denied a 1996 application by
Janssen to allow use in children. The Janssen application never
said “for what child or adolescent psychiatric disorders
Risperdal would be intended,” the FDA said.  “Your rationale for proposing this supplement appears to
be simply that, since Risperdal is being used in pediatric
patients, this use should be acknowledged in some way in
labeling,” according to the FDA letter in September 1997.  Typed notes by Janssen sales representatives of their calls
on doctors showed they discussed the use of Risperdal with
children, Friede told jurors.  FDA Admonitions  Friede also reviewed FDA admonitions to Janssen to avoid
saying that Risperdal was superior to an earlier class of
antipsychotics.  The drug agency sent J&J a warning about its Risperdal
marketing practices in 1999. It followed with a stronger warning
after the company sent a letter on Nov. 10, 2003, to 700,000
doctors in the U.S.  J&J wrote to tell the doctors that the FDA wanted all
makers of so-called atypical antipsychotics, including J&J,
Pfizer Inc., and Eli Lilly & Co., to warn in product labels of
the risk of hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus.  J&J said research “suggests” that Risperdal “is not
associated with an increased risk of diabetes” compared with an
earlier class of antipsychotics. It also said evidence
“suggests” Risperdal is “associated with a lower risk of
diabetes than some other studied atypical antipsychotics.”  Warning Letter  An FDA warning letter sent in April 2004 said the J&J
missive failed to disclose new data on diabetes in the warning
label; “minimizes the risk of hyperglycemia-related adverse
events” that can lead to coma or death; fails to recommend
glucose control monitoring for patients; and “misleadingly
claims that Risperdal is safer than other atypical
antipsychotics.”  J&J then sent a corrective letter to doctors.  The states of  Louisiana  and  South Carolina , in suing J&J
and Janssen, relied heavily on those company letters to doctors
and on the FDA response. J&J lost a $327 million judgment in
South Carolina after a jury found the drugmaker liable for
damages.  The company also lost a Risperdal case in Louisiana, where
on top of a $257.7 million jury award the judge ordered the
company to pay $73.3 million in attorneys’ fees and costs.  J&J and the Janssen unit have also been sued over marketing
practices by  Alaska ,  Arkansas , Louisiana,  Montana ,  New Mexico ,
Pennsylvania and  Utah . The Arkansas case is set for trial in
March.  The case is Texas v. Janssen LP, D-1GV-04-001288, District
Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Austin
at  dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 