-- Japan’s Noda Names Okada as Deputy Premier
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-01-13T04:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/japan-s-noda-names-okada-as-deputy-premier.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  reshuffled his Cabinet today to boost negotiations with the
opposition over raising the national  sales tax , as polls show
rising discontent with his four-month-old administration.  Former Foreign Minister  Katsuya Okada  was named Noda’s
deputy premier, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura told
reporters today in Tokyo. Naoki Tanaka replaced Yasuo Ichikawa,
one of two ministers who were censured last month by the Diet,
as defense chief. Noda will hold a press conference at 6 p.m.  The non-binding rebukes forced Noda to consider the shakeup
after opposition lawmakers threatened to boycott talks on his
plan to double the 5 percent sales tax by 2015 unless the
ministers were fired. The impasse complicated government efforts
to rebuild from the March earthquake and nuclear disaster while
reining in the world’s largest debt.  “The point of the reshuffle is to remove the censured
ministers,” said Harumi Arima, an independent political analyst
in  Tokyo . “By naming Okada, who has a stable image, Noda wants
to show that his Cabinet is made of heavyweights. And it may
help promote the sales tax hike to some degree.”  Jin Matsubara replaced the other censured minister, Kenji
Yamaoka, as head of consumer affairs.  The Cabinet last week endorsed the  Democratic Party of
Japan ’s proposal to raise the consumption tax to 8 percent in
April 2014 and 10 percent in October 2015 to help pay for
soaring welfare costs as the population ages. Nine DPJ lawmakers
left the party in revolt and the main opposition  Liberal
Democratic Party  called for an election before considering
legislation on the issue.  DPJ Diplomat  Okada, 58, served as DPJ secretary-general for a year under
former Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  after spending a year as foreign
minister. As the party’s No. 2 official, he worked to reduce the
influence of indicted power broker Ichiro Ozawa and to heal
divisions within the DPJ as Kan’s popularity plummeted over the
handling of the March disaster that crippled the Fukushima
nuclear power plant.  During his time as Japan’s top diplomat, Okada worked to
ease tensions with the U.S. prompted by then-Prime Minister
Yukio Hatoyama’s pledge to move an American Marine base off of
the island of Okinawa. In a January 2010 interview, he praised
President  Barack Obama ’s commitment to  Asia  and contrasted it
favorably with predecessor  George W. Bush .  A seven-term lawmaker who entered parliament in 1990 as a
member of the then-ruling LDP, Okada is the second son of the
founder of Aeon Corp., the country’s second-biggest retailer. A
graduate of the University of Tokyo, Okada also studied
international affairs at  Harvard University . He worked as a
trade ministry official for a decade before entering politics.  ‘High Expectations’  “I have high expectations for Okada,” said Jun Okumura, a
senior adviser in Tokyo for the Eurasia Group and a former
ministry colleague of Okada’s. “He has connections with the
opposition, he’s popular with the media and he shares the same
views on tax and social security reform as Noda.”  Noda’s popularity has dropped from September, when he
became  Japan ’s sixth prime minister since 2006. His approval
rating fell 8.9 percentage points to 35.7 percent from last
month,  Kyodo News  reported on Jan. 8.  Most voters oppose his two-stage plan to double the sales
tax, with 52.9 percent against the measure compared with 45.6
percent in favor, Kyodo said. The nationwide phone survey taken
Jan. 7-8 didn’t provide a margin of error or say how many people
were contacted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net  