-- Jets Owner Woody Johnson Backs Sanchez, Understands Frustration at Season
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-01-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/jets-owner-woody-johnson-backs-sanchez-understands-frustration-at-season.html
New York Jets owner Woody Johnson
defended quarterback  Mark Sanchez , who was the target of
disparaging remarks by some of his teammates, while saying he
understood frustration at the team missing the playoffs.  Johnson told  MSNBC ’s “Morning Joe” yesterday that the
Jets are having a difficult offseason after missing the
playoffs.  “ New Yorkers  don’t like losers and, even if it’s an 8-8
record, that’s not good enough here,” Johnson said. “They want
a winner and there is frustration and that’s what you want.”  A New York Daily News article, citing anonymous Jets
players, said Sanchez is lazy because he has no challenger for
the starting quarterback role and that he hasn’t improved as
much as expected in his third year as a National Football League
quarterback. Johnson said criticism of Sanchez’s work ethic was
unwarranted.  “He’s the first guy in the building every morning and the
last guy to leave,” Johnson said. “He’s an NFL quarterback.”  The Jets ended the season with a three-game losing streak,
during which Sanchez threw seven interceptions. The team’s
offense ranked 25th out of 32 NFL teams, while the running game
ranked 22nd this past season.  New York  reached the AFC
championship game the previous two years with a rushing attack
that led the NFL in 2009 and ranked fourth in 2010.  The Jets two days ago appointed former Miami Dolphins coach
 Tony Sparano  as offensive coordinator a day after Brian Schottenheimer resigned following six years with the team.  Lack of Chemistry  Coach Rex Ryan said Jan. 2, a day after a season-ending
19-17 loss to the Dolphins, that he failed to read “the pulse
of our team” and didn’t appreciate the extent of a lack of
chemistry. Rookie quarterback Greg McElroy told a Birmingham,
Alabama, radio station two days later that he had never seen so
many selfish players on a team.  Johnson said Ryan understands he made a mistake in his
handling of the locker room. A four-month lockout as players and
owners wrangled over a new labor contract didn’t help, because
it meant the Jets had to hold training camp in  Florham Park ,  New
Jersey , instead of their regular preseason facility in Cortland,
New York, Johnson added.  “Now, how do you correct that?” Johnson asked about team
morale. “That’s alchemy. Inside the locker room, it’s one of
those things that, every year, it’s a little bit different -- 30
percent new players and the fact we didn’t go to Cortland hurt
us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  