-- JPMorgan Shares Drop as Stock, Bond Trading Revenue Declines
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-01-13T21:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/jpmorgan-profit-falls-13-on-weak-trading-matches-estimates.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  fell the most
in almost a month in New York trading after the bank reported a
23 percent drop in profit on lower investment-banking fees and
 revenue (JPM)  from trading stocks and bonds.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, dropped 2.5
percent to $35.92 at 4:15 p.m., the steepest decline since Dec.
19. The company said fourth-quarter  net income  slid to $3.73
billion, or 90 cents a share, from $4.83 billion, or $1.12, in
the same period a year earlier.  Revenue in every investment-banking business fell from a
year earlier, including an 18 percent drop in trading. The
division’s total revenue declined 30 percent to $4.36 billion as
corporate clients stayed on the sidelines on concern Europe’s
debt crisis would lead to an economic slowdown. Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the investment-banking business is
“naturally volatile” and would eventually bounce back.  “I don’t think that these numbers are permanent,” Dimon,
55, said on a conference call with journalists after earnings
were released. “When things come back these numbers will boom
again and we’ll be geniuses, and it won’t be because we did
anything, it will be because we stayed in the game.”  JPMorgan’s drop was the third-biggest on the  KBW Bank Index (BKX) 
of 24 companies, after 2.7 percent declines at both  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Job Cuts  Financial institutions are eliminating jobs to compensate
for falling trading revenue, disclosing plans to reduce staff by
more than 200,000 worldwide, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Britain’s biggest
government-owned bank, said this week it would cut about 4,800.  For the year, JPMorgan’s net income was a record $19
billion, 9 percent higher than in 2010. Revenue for 2011
declined 5 percent to $97.2 billion, and fourth-quarter revenue
fell 18 percent, to $21.5 billion, the lowest in three years and
below the $22.6 billion estimated by analysts in the Bloomberg
survey.  “We believe these returns were reasonable given the
environment, although the return for the fourth quarter was
modestly disappointing,” Dimon said in the statement.  Fixed-income and equity-markets revenue dropped to $3.27
billion from $4 billion a year earlier and $4.75 billion in the
third quarter, the company said.  Retail banking earned $533 million, down 54 percent from
the third quarter and up 16 percent from a year earlier. The
division benefited from a reduction in loss provisions to $779
million from $2.42 billion in the prior year.  Credit Cards  Fewer consumers fell behind on credit-card payments in the
fourth quarter compared with the same period in 2010. Loans at
least 30 days overdue, a signal of future write-offs, fell to
1.13 percent from 1.22 percent. Write-offs dropped to 4.29
percent from 7.85 percent the prior year and 4.7 percent in the
previous quarter.  The so-called Durbin amendment, which limits what lenders
can charge merchants on debit transactions, took effect on Oct.
1, affecting almost all U.S. banks and costing the top 25 about
$1.5 billion,  Jason Goldberg , a senior bank analyst at Barclays
Capital in  New York , said.  JPMorgan said today the new rules will reduce its net
income by about $600 million a year, and Dimon  said  on the call
that the Durbin amendment was a “gross miscarriage of
justice.” Chief Financial Officer Douglas Braunstein said the
Durbin amendment reduced revenue $350 million in the fourth
quarter.  Mortgage Buybacks  Losses from buying back mortgages JPMorgan previously sold
may amount to about $350 million per quarter this year, the bank
forecast today. Quarterly repurchase losses averaged $337
million last year.  JPMorgan’s net income continued to benefit from releasing
back into earnings reserves previously set aside for bad
mortgages, credit cards and other loans, although it was smaller
than in previous periods. The bank released $723 million in
reserves in the fourth quarter, compared with $2.1 billion a
year earlier. The bank added $4.66 billion in net income through
reserve releases for the year, compared with $7 billion in 2010.  The company continued to build its litigation reserves,
setting aside $528 million more for mortgage-related lawsuits.  JPMorgan, which has benefited from record low costs of
funding mortgages and other assets, faces a squeeze on its net
interest margin -- the difference between what it pays to borrow
money and what it gets for loans and on securities.  The bank’s margin narrowed to 2.7 percent from 2.88 percent
a year earlier.  Lower Taxes  JPMorgan was able to boost profit last quarter by paying
less in taxes. The company’s effective  tax rate  was 21 percent
in the fourth quarter, compared with 31 percent a year earlier
and 27 percent in the third quarter.  The lower tax rate contributed about 10 cents to JPMorgan’s
per-share earnings, helping it to meet or beat some analysts’
estimates,  Keith Horowitz  of Citigroup Investment Research, said
in a note to clients today.  Goldberg at  Barclays Capital  said the fourth quarter was
probably the worst earnings period for the industry during 2011.  “A lot of it is driven by the challenging capital markets
environment,” he said in a Jan. 9 interview. “Trading revenues
started out the year off strong, and then the second half of the
year was quite challenged. That business bounces around.”  U.S. banks are in the middle of the industry’s worst two
years of revenue growth since the Great Depression, according to
Mike Mayo, an analyst with independent research firm CLSA in New
York. Earnings across the industry were weak in the fourth
quarter and won’t have much improvement this year, he said.  Bank Stocks  Slowing economic growth, mounting mortgage liabilities and
heightened concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will spread have
weighed on bank stocks all year. Just two of the 24 companies in
the KBW Bank Index posted a gain in 2011, and the worst
performer, Bank of America, was down 58 percent.  Large super-regional banks such as  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
Pittsburgh-based PNC Financial Services Group Inc. will probably
fare better as the basic business of taking deposits and making
loans gives reason for optimism, Goldberg said.  Bank of America, second by assets to JPMorgan, will
probably post $5.82 billion in adjusted earnings for the year
when the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company reports next
week, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Citigroup’s 2011 profit was estimated at $11.6 billion, or
12 percent higher than the previous year, and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  is projected to report a 62 percent decline to $2.95
billion, the Bloomberg survey shows. Morgan Stanley, the sixth-
largest U.S. bank, may post $2.22 billion of adjusted earnings,
down 29 percent. All three companies are based in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  