-- JPMorgan’s Dimon Says ECB Has Removed Bank Failure Risk for Now
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-01-13T16:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/jpmorgan-s-dimon-says-ecb-has-removed-bank-failure-risk-for-now.html
The  European Central Bank ’s move to
provide three-year loans to the region’s banks and accept a
wider variety of collateral has eliminated the risk a bank runs
short of funds for at least the next year,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said.  “It eliminates bank liquidity or funding problems for at
least the next year, that’s a pretty powerful statement,” Dimon
said today after his company reported a drop in fourth-quarter
net income. “That was the biggest single risk of an
uncontrollable surprise right there, so if that’s taken off the
table, that’s a good thing.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  last month unveiled plans to
offer banks 36-month, 1 percent loans through two so-called
longer-term refinancing operations, known as LTROs. The plan
replaced a 12-month lending facility established by the ECB in
October and also allowed banks to use a wider variety of assets
as collateral for the loans.  “ Europe  is trying mightily to solve its problems. I still
think the likely outcome is they will muddle through,” Dimon
said. “The longer you wait, the higher you run the risk of
something disorderly that you can’t really control. I think the
ECB took off the worst outcome, i.e. a bank failure.”  The 46-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index  climbed 2.5 percent in December after slumping 8.3 percent
in November. So far this year, the index is up 0.3 percent.  Banks in Europe are still shedding so-called risk-weighted
assets, or RWAs, because regulators are requiring them to
increase their ratios of equity capital to RWAs, Dimon said.  “They’re still reducing RWA by not rolling things over,
you can see them selling aircraft loans, trade finance, they’re
not participating as much in revolvers, there are certain
conduits they’re not doing anymore,” Dimon said. “But that’s
now just to create capital, not because they have a funding
problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 