-- Kenya’s Shilling Weakens for 2nd Day on Business Import Demand
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-01-13T11:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/kenya-s-shilling-weakens-for-2nd-day-on-business-import-demand.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened for the
second day out of three on increased dollar demand from
businesses for imports.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy declined as
much as 0.6 percent to 87.85 per dollar and was down less than
0.1 percent at 87.38 at 1:57 p.m. in Nairobi.  “The shilling is under pressure due to high dollar demand
from businesses such as oil importers,” Bernard Matimu, chief
dealer at Nairobi-based NIC Bank Ltd., said in a phone interview
today.  The Central Bank of Kenya accepted all the 5.55 billion
shillings ($63.5 million) of  repurchase agreements  received at
17.623 percent. The bank had offered 7 billion shillings, a
central bank official, who couldn’t be identified in line with
bank policy, said by phone from Nairobi today.  In a repurchase agreement an investor agrees to sell a
security to another trader while simultaneously arranging to buy
it back at a future date at a pre-determined price.  The Tanzania shilling declined for the first day in six on
increased dollar purchases for oil and manufacturing imports.
The currency depreciated by 0.4 percent to 1,585 per dollar at 2
p.m. in  Dar es Salaam , the commercial capital.  “There is growing demand from corporate customers mainly
oil and manufacturing sector and the  interbank market  mainly
influencing the performance of the shilling today, with most
traders buying dollars to cover their positions,” Fred Siwale,
a dealer with  CRDB Bank Plc (CRDB)  said by phone from Dar es Salaam,
the commercial Capital.  Uganda’s shilling weakened for the first day in six,
depreciating less than 0.1 percent to 2,413.75 per dollar as a
strike called by traders over high  interest rates  entered its
third day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  