-- Kodak Said in Talks With Citigroup on Bankruptcy Financing
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2012-01-13T23:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/kodak-said-to-hold-talks-with-citigroup-on-bankruptcy-financing.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  is in advanced
talks with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to provide bankruptcy financing as the
 unprofitable  imaging company prepares for a potential filing,
said three people familiar with the matter. The stock plunged.  Kodak may seek protection from  creditors  within weeks and
then hold an auction to sell its patent portfolio, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. Kodak may seek about $1 billion in so-called debtor-in-
possession financing, though terms may change, two people said.  Advisers to Kodak are lining up a bidder that will be the
frontrunner or so-called stalking horse bidder for the patent
portfolio should the company file, one person said.  Moody’s Investors Service cut ratings on about $1 billion
of Kodak’s debt on Jan. 5, citing “a heightened probability of
a bankruptcy” as liquidity deteriorates. In September, after a
report by Bloomberg News about Kodak weighing options, the
company issued a statement saying it has “no intention of
filing for bankruptcy” and that it is pursuing patent sales.  “There is a heightened probability that Kodak will file
for bankruptcy in order to improve its prospects of achieving
more favorable terms in the licensing or sale of its digital
patents,” Richard Lane, an analyst at Moody’s, said yesterday.
“Kodak needs material, near-term liquidity support, otherwise,
our analysis shows Kodak will run out of domestic liquidity by
mid-2012.”  Kodak  fell  23 percent to 52 cents as of 4:15 p.m. New York
time. The New York Stock Exchange warned Kodak on Jan. 3 that it
needs to get its share price back above $1 within six months to
continue trading, under listing standards rules.  Spokesmen for Rochester, New York-based Kodak and  New York- 
based Citigroup declined to comment.  Raising Cash  Kodak’s cash and equivalents fell to $862 million at the
end of its third quarter from $1.4 billion a year earlier. The
company is scheduled to report fourth-quarter results Jan. 26.  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez is seeking to raise
cash by selling a portfolio of more than 1,100 digital imaging
patents, and some other business units, while pursuing royalties
from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Research In Motion Ltd.  Three board members resigned last month: Laura D. Tyson, a
director since 1997, and Adam H. Clammer and Herald Y. Chen,
directors from private-equity firm KKR & Co. who were elected in
September 2009. Communications chief  Gerard Meuchner  left the
company “to accept another opportunity,” Kodak said Jan. 5.  Kodak was founded by  George Eastman , who developed a method
for dry-plate photography before introducing the Kodak camera in
1888, according to the company’s  website . It went on to invent
film enabling Thomas Edison to develop the motion picture
camera, Brownie cameras and Kodachrome film.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  