-- Kodak in Crisis Mines Patents for Cash Copying Texas Instruments
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-01-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/kodak-mines-patents-for-cash-copying-texas-instruments.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , seeking to mine
its multibillion-dollar patent portfolio for cash to fund
structural changes, is taking a page from strategies used by
 Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   Texas Instruments, the second-largest U.S. chipmaker, wrote
the template decades ago on techniques to exploit patent
holdings when a company is struggling, said Joseph Siino, who
runs patent-consulting firm Ovidian Group. Losing market share
to competitors, Texas Instruments used an aggressive litigation
strategy that extracted royalties from those using the Dallas-
based company’s technology without permission, he said.  “The TI example was the one that started a number of
companies, including IBM, thinking differently about the value
of this vault of intellectual property,” said Siino, who is
based in Berkeley, California. Texas Instruments “at one point
made more from patents than from its ongoing business.”  Kodak said in November that selling patents and refinancing
debt will help determine its ability to continue operating in
the next 12 months as declines in its traditional photography
business hurt sales and cash reserves. Texas Instruments’ patent
strategy, also used successfully by  Pitney Bowes Inc. (PBI)  and  Xerox
Corp. (XRX) , may give Rochester, New York-based Kodak the cash to fund
a transition to the more  profitable  market for digital printing.  IBM, the largest U.S.-based patent owner, makes about $1
billion a year in intellectual-property revenue, said Chris Andrews, a spokesman for the Armonk, New York-based company.  ‘Turnaround Moment’  IBM’s strategy has its roots in the 1980s, when after
helping pioneer the personal-computer market, the company found
itself challenged by competitors. Stung by a money-losing
quarter, IBM turned to its patents to ferret licensing deals,
taking a unit that had generated less than $100 million in
revenue a year to $1 billion annually, said Victor Siber, the
company’s chief intellectual property lawyer at the time.  “That was a turnaround moment,” Siber, who left IBM in
1997 and is now a partner at the law firm of Baker & Hostetler
LLP in  New York , said in an interview. “The company focused on
the assets it had, what it could do about it, set it in motion
and executed on it. It’s a great story, a great textbook case.”  Kodak, contending it invented many of the basic aspects of
digital imaging and deserves to be compensated, has been
shopping more than 1,100 patents since July, and is suing  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and other companies for
royalties. The company generated $40 million in licensing
revenue in the first nine months of last year, after getting
$838 million in 2010, mainly from legal settlements in cases
against  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   ‘Crisis Stage’  Kodak’s licensing programs have generated more than $3
billion in revenue since 2004,  Christopher Veronda , a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail. Chief Executive Officer Antonio
Perez estimated last year that based on the Samsung and LG
 cases , Kodak may get $1 billion in additional revenue were it to
settle with Apple and RIM.  “A monetization policy can be quite successful, but it’s
hard to implement it when you’re in a crisis stage,” Siber
said. “Time is a very significant factor and if a company waits
too long and really doesn’t have the runway, you run out of
time. You really have to be alert and start early and make
decisions quickly.”  Moody’s Investors Service on Jan. 5 cut ratings on about $1
billion of Kodak debt with a negative outlook, and cited “a
heightened probability of a bankruptcy over the near-term” as
liquidity deteriorates.  Microsoft, Ericsson  Kodak is  predicted  to report an adjusted fourth-quarter
loss of 2 cents a share, the average of three analysts’
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Kodak’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization -- a measure of
 cash flow  -- are estimated to have been negative last year.
Ebitda was a  loss of $855 million  for the trailing 12 months
ended in September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest software maker, set up
a team to strike licensing deals with companies that make
devices that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.
Yesterday the Redmond, Washington-based company announced an
agreement with LG, and said more than 70 percent of all Android
devices sold in the U.S. have Microsoft licenses.  Openwave Systems Inc. (OPWV) , a maker of software for mobile
devices with  shares  that dropped 25 percent last year, said
yesterday it’s pursuing a sale of its products business to focus
on patent licensing. Stockholm-based Ericsson AB, the world’s
biggest maker of wireless equipment, said it’s reorganizing its
patent department to make more money from its 27,000 patents.  Xerox’s Example  Pitney Bowes, a Stamford, Connecticut-based maker of postal
meters, dusted off a patent a decade ago from an abandoned foray
into the printer business and extracted $400 million from
Hewlett-Packard Co., and a later settlement from Xerox. HP in
turn established a program to more actively license its patents
as well.  Xerox, the Norwalk, Connecticut-based provider of printers
and business services, has seen it from both sides. The company
was the founder of Xerox Parc, a research institute in  Palo
Alto ,  California , that is credited with creating laser printing,
the graphical user interface and other features of the modern
computer. Apple and other companies were able to use the
inventions without paying Xerox.  The trick is to ensure that the company is paying attention
to its intellectual property, making sure the patents adequately
protect the innovations, Siino said.  “If a company has neglected its IP or hasn’t been paying
attention to IP all along and had someone watching the store, it
can find itself in a position where it’s unable to capture the
value of their IP,” Siino said. “Kodak will soon find out
whether it was careful or not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  