-- Nestle Said to Vie With Danone to Buy Pfizer’s Baby-Food Unit
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-01-13T21:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/nestle-said-to-vie-with-danone-in-bids-to-acquire-pfizer-s-baby-food-unit.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Danone SA (BN)  made first-
round bids for  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s baby-formula unit, putting two of
 Europe ’s largest food companies in competition for the division,
people with knowledge of the matter said.  A tax-free spinoff is still an option for the company, said
the people, who declined to be identified as the process is
private. Pfizer had delayed sending out sale documents to
examine whether that move would be better for investors, people
with knowledge of the plans said in September.  Nestle had $8.3 billion in cash, cash equivalents and
short-term investments as of June, more than twice as much as
Danone’s $3 billion. The sale of the infant-nutrition business,
whose revenue approached $2 billion in 2010, would allow Chief
Executive Officer  Ian Read  to focus more on medicine development
at Pfizer, whose drugs include the Lipitor cholesterol pill.  In addition to their cash, the companies’ investment-grade
credit ratings may help them borrow funds for acquisitions. A
representative for Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle declined to
comment, while two spokeswomen for Danone didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Many drugmakers are seeking fresh sources of revenue as
their patents on top-selling drugs expire, allowing copycats to
enter the market with cheaper generic versions. Through 2015,
medicines that generate $171 billion in sales globally will lose
patent protection, according to  Gary Gatyas, a spokesman for
IMS Health in Parsippany, New Jersey, which tracks the industry.  Lipitor Loss  Pfizer lost exclusivity on its  Lipitor (PHAM1150)  treatment in the
U.S. last year. The company’s plan to shed its nutrition and
animal health units is part of Read’s strategy to shield against
the potential loss of more than $10 billion in sales from the
cholesterol pill.  “The process of exploring strategic alternatives for
Pfizer’s nutrition business is ongoing,” said Joan Campion, a
spokeswoman for Pfizer. “We’re currently pursuing the
activities associated with evaluating all options, including
sale, spinoff or other transaction.” The company expects to
announce a decision this year, she said.  Pfizer  shares  fell less than 1 percent to $21.84 at the
close in  New York . Danone declined 1.1 percent to 47.05 euros in
Paris, while Nestle slid 0.5 percent to 53.20 Swiss francs in
Zurich.  Examining Options  Pfizer said in July that it would examine options for the
operations, as well as the animal-health division. The New York-
based drugmaker may fetch as much as $10.5 billion for the baby-
food unit, the people said in July. Together, the two accounted
for 8 percent of the drugmaker’s 2010 revenue.  “Investors will view this positively,” said  Les Funtleyder , a health-care strategist and portfolio manager with
Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, whose fund owns Pfizer shares.
“The more capital return, the better,” he said of a potential
sale.  Pfizer shares gained less than 1 percent to $21.99
yesterday. They have risen 20 percent in the past year.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  said this week that it isn’t
participating in the Pfizer process. The health-care company was
among the parties that had expressed interest in the division,
people with knowledge of the process said in July. The Abbott
Park, Illinois-based company, which announced its own breakup in
October, was still interested in bidding for the Pfizer unit
then, said a person familiar with the matter.  Antitrust Concern?  Potential buyers, notably Nestle, may encounter antitrust
issues in some markets, two of the people said. With the Pfizer
operations, the Swiss food company would hold more than 60
percent of the market for baby formula in  Australia ,  Mexico  and
elsewhere, they said. Danone would have as much as 80 percent of
markets such as the U.K., Turkey and  New Zealand  and more than
70 percent in Ireland and Australia, said the people. Both
companies could dispose of assets to meet antitrust
requirements.  Pfizer gained the formula division through its $68 billion
purchase of Wyeth in 2009. The unit, which makes the SMA Gold
line of products for infants and children and Enercal
supplements for adults, offers products in more than 60
countries, according to its website.  The nutrition business is ranked fifth worldwide by market
share, according to Lee Linthicum, an analyst with Euromonitor
International in  London . That compares with the  Middle East  and
 Africa , and  Asia , where it holds the No. 3 and No. 4 spots,
respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  