-- Deutsche Bank, News Corp., Samsung, Terra Firma, Barclays in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-13T13:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/news-corp-samsung-terra-firma-lilly-barclays-in-court-news.html
Ma Sin-chi, a  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
managing director in  Hong Kong , was charged with accepting
HK$24.8 million ($3.2 million) in bribes in exchange for advice
on the trading of derivative warrants issued by the bank.  Four stock investors were also charged at Hong Kong’s
Eastern Magistrates’ Court yesterday with conspiring to offer
the bribes to Ma, 37, according to a  statement  from the city’s
Independent Commission Against Corruption.  The five defendants, who were arrested in April last year,
didn’t enter pleas and the case was adjourned to April 24
pending further enquiries, according to the statement. Deutsche
Bank and the Securities and Futures Commission “rendered full
assistance” in the investigation, the ICAC said.  Ma has been suspended from Deutsche Bank since his arrest
and the bank’s Hong Kong spokesman  Michael West  said the case is
a personal matter for Ma.  “There is absolutely no suggestion of wrongdoing by
Deutsche Bank,” West said.  Ma allegedly accepted the bribes between January 2007 and
May 2008, according to the ICAC statement.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Suspended Korean Savings Bank Chairman Found Dead in Seoul  The biggest shareholder of  Ace Mutual Savings Bank , a South
Korean lender whose operations were suspended last year by the
regulator, was found dead yesterday ahead of scheduled
questioning by prosecutors.  The body of Kim Hak Heon, chairman of Incheon, South Korea-
based Ace Mutual, was discovered in a Seoul hotel room, the
city’s Bangbae district police authorities said in a statement
posted on their  website . Prosecutors had planned to question Kim
yesterday regarding allegations of illicit lending and
accounting fraud, the police said.  Ace Mutual was one of 16 savings banks shuttered by South
Korean regulators last year as developers defaulted on loans
amid a slowdown in the real-estate market. South Korean
prosecutors last year indicted more than 100 people including
shareholders, executives of the savings banks and government and
regulatory officials over lax management and oversight as well
as misuse of funds.  Kim owned a 56 percent stake in closely held Ace Mutual,
according to the bank’s regulatory filing. The lender had total
assets of 991.8 billion won ($860 million) as of June, according
to Financial Services Commission data.  A woman who answered two calls to the Supreme Prosecutors’
Office of Korea declined to comment or connect the calls to a
spokesman and refused to give her name, and there was no
response to an e-mail sent by Bloomberg News. A person who
answered the phone at Ace Mutual’s headquarters in Seoul also
declined to comment and refused to provide her name.  For more, click here.  News Corp. (NWSA)  Tells Judge of U.K. Tabloid’s Prison-Guard Bribe  News Corp. for the first time publicly gave details on
bribery by a journalist at its now-defunct News of the World,
telling a court that a former editor agreed to pay a prison
guard to get a story about a child killer.  Matt Nixson, a features editor for five years at the News
of the World, told a reporter in a March 7, 2009, e-mail to pay
750 pounds ($1,150) to the guard for details about a man who
murdered two girls. Nixson then said to “chuck her some more
money later” since she wanted 1,000 pounds, News Corp. said in
court papers filed Dec. 13 in  London  and made public yesterday.  The disclosure is part of the company’s defense in Nixson’s
lawsuit claiming he was wrongfully fired from News Corp.’s Sun
tabloid, where he last worked, as the company sought to contain
a phone-hacking scandal. News Corp. closed the News of the World
in July after it was revealed it hacked into the voice mail of a
different murdered schoolgirl in 2002.  Nixson “was guilty of gross misconduct, or at any rate,
conduct justifying dismissal without notice or pay,” members of
the company’s Management and Standards Committee, which is
running the investigation, said in the court filing.  Alison Downie of Goodman Derrick LLP in London, Nixson’s
lawyer, said in an e-mailed statement that “my client wishes to
make it absolutely clear that he neither bribed, nor ever
admitted to bribing a prison officer” and will continue to
pursue his claims against the company and committee.  Nixson hasn’t been arrested as part of the Metropolitan
Police’s probe into journalist bribery of police. At least eight
people have been arrested, including a serving police officer on
Dec. 21.  Nixson, who was fired in July, knew the bribe was wrong
because he told the reporter, Matthew Acton, to arrange the
payment “very carefully,” since the company had a “forensic
new accountant who doesn’t brook any funny business,” according
to the filing. Acton declined to comment when reached by phone.  Nixson also received an e-mail from another News of the
World employee about phone hacking and “blagging,” or lying to
get personal information for a story, and didn’t “raise an
objection,” News Corp. said in the filing.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for the New York-based
company’s News International unit, declined to comment on the
case. Paul Durman, a spokesman for the committee, also declined
to comment.  News International is facing about 70 lawsuits filed by
victims of phone hacking, as well as separate police probes of
phone hacking, computer hacking and bribery. Prime Minister
David Cameron also called for judge-led inquiry into the ethics
of U.K. newspapers, which was triggered by the scandal.  The case is Nixson v. News Group Newspapers, HQ11X03843,
 High Court  of Justice Queen’s Bench Division.  For more, click here.  Samsung,  LG (066570)  Conspire to Fix Prices,  South Korea  Regulator Says  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and LG Electronics Inc., South
Korea’s two largest electronics makers, conspired to boost
prices for some of their products in their local market, the
country’s antitrust regulator said.  The companies will be fined 45 billion won ($39 million) in
total for fixing prices of washing machines, flat-screen TVs and
laptop computers, the  Korea Fair Trade Commission  said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Officials from Samsung and LG, the two largest makers of
the products in South Korea, held meetings in Seoul between 2008
and 2009 to share information and raise prices, the commission
said in its statement.  LG will step up efforts not to repeat the practice, Claire
Jang, a spokeswoman for the Seoul-based company, said by phone.  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, didn’t have an
immediate comment as it hadn’t received official notice of the
ruling yet, Chenny Kim, a company spokeswoman in Seoul, said by
phone. Samsung will look into the matter when it receives
relevant documents from the commission, she said.  CFTC Offered to Settle Lawsuit for $175,000, McCrudden Says  An ex-commodities trader who pleaded guilty to threatening
to kill financial regulators, including Commodity Futures
Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler , said the CFTC offered
to settle a civil case against him for a $175,000 fine and a
lifetime ban from the industry.  Vincent P. McCrudden, awaiting sentencing in a Queens,  New
York , jail, told U.S. District Judge Denis R. Hurley in Central
Islip, New York, about the offer in a letter made public Jan. 9.
Settlement negotiations on Dec. 12 were unsuccessful, according
to an order by U.S. Magistrate Judge A. Kathleen Tomlinson, who,
according to McCrudden “endorsed” the CFTC’s offer.  McCrudden, 50, pleaded guilty to two counts of transmission
of threats to injure before opening arguments were scheduled to
begin in his trial on July 18. The charges carry a maximum
sentence of 10 years in prison. According to the government, he
posted an “execution” list on his company  website  after the
CFTC accused him in the December 2010 lawsuit of illegally
starting his Hybrid Fund II LP in 2008 without registering it.  Dennis Holden, a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
settlement negotiations.  Hurley is presiding over both the CFTC suit and the
criminal case.  The criminal case is U.S. v. McCrudden, 11-cr-61, and the
civil case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
McCrudden, 10-cv-5567, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
New York (Central Islip).  For more, click here.  Terra Firma Loses U.K. Court Bid for EMI Valuation Documents  Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd. failed to force the
administrators of EMI Group to hand over documents about the
sale of the music group to  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in a deal that caused
Terra Firma to lose about 1.85 billion pounds ($2.8 billion).  Units of Terra Firma, the private equity firm run by  Guy
Hands , sought the valuation documents from EMI’s administrators
at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its advisers because it had
“serious concerns about the circumstances surrounding the
sale,” Judge Nicholas Warren in London said in a ruling dated
Jan. 5.  Warren rejected the application, saying Terra Firma had all
the information it needed about the valuation of EMI.  Citigroup seized control of EMI in February after EMI
failed to meet its debt obligations. In 2010, Hands sued
Citigroup in the U.S., saying it had tricked him into buying the
record label.  Terra Firma spokesman  Andrew Dowler  didn’t return calls to
comment.  The case is in the Matter of Maltby Investments Ltd., High
Court of Justice Chancery Division.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  J&J Whistle-Blower Jones Says He Was Fired After Payment Probe  A whistle-blower who sued  Johnson & Johnson  over the
marketing of its antipsychotic Risperdal told a jury he was
fired after probing company payments to a top pharmacist in
Pennsylvania’s government who hid the money.  Allen Jones testified yesterday in state court in Austin,
 Texas , that he was an investigator in the Pennsylvania Office of
Inspector General in 2002 when he looked into an unregistered
bank account run by Steven Fiorello, the pharmacist. Fiorello
was on a Pennsylvania committee weighing whether to require
doctors to give priority to newer, more expensive drugs like
Risperdal in state-funded treatment of mental-health patients,
Jones said.  Jones, 57, said he found a $4,000 check from J&J’s Janssen
unit to Harrisburg State Hospital that was sent “to the
attention of” Fiorello. The check covered a Fiorello trip to
New Orleans to discuss Pennsylvania’s drug guidelines. Another
check for $1,766 to the hospital account was sent “in care of”
of Fiorello, Jones said. Fiorello controlled the account and
didn’t register it with the state, Jones said.  “The account was used to deposit money from drug
companies,” Jones said yesterday in the trial’s third day of
testimony. “There were real problems here. On many levels, the
account was improper.”  Janssen also paid $2,000 directly to Fiorello as an
honorarium for his speaking at a company-sponsored event in
2002, Jones said. Jones said he followed the money trail and
explored efforts by Janssen to promote, on a state-by-state
basis, Texas guidelines favoring drugs like Risperdal. The funds
sent to the hospital account helped pay travel expenses for
programs related to setting up the Texas guidelines in
Pennsylvania, he said.  The state adopted the guidelines that favored Risperdal in
2003, Jones said.  In 2004, Jones filed a whistle-blower lawsuit in Texas,
which the state later joined, claiming J&J defrauded the state
by overhyping Risperdal and overbilling its Medicaid program by
at least $579 million.  J&J denies any wrongdoing in the Texas case.  Fiorello, once the chief pharmacist for Pennsylvania’s
public welfare department, was convicted in December 2008 of
felony conflict-of-interest charges for taking payments from
drug companies, including Janssen and Pfizer Inc. He was
sentenced to 18 months of probation and fined $3,000. He also
paid more than $27,000 in civil fines after the Pennsylvania
Ethics Commission cited him.  Jones said his boss told him to ease off his probe. He said
he was told, “Stay away from the drug companies. This is a
personnel issue. Stay away from the drug companies, stay away
from TMAP.”  Jones said his boss said, “Drug companies write checks to
both sides of the aisle. Stay away from it.” His boss told him
that “morally and ethically I was correct, but politically,
this was dead.”  The case is Texas v. Janssen LP, D-1GV-04-001288, District
Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  For more, click here.  Stryker Biotech Marketing Put Patients at Risk, U.S. Says  A unit of  Stryker Corp. (SYK) , the maker of medical devices, and
three former sales managers put patients at risk by marketing an
unapproved mixture of products for strengthening human bone
growth, a prosecutor said at the start of a federal criminal
trial in Boston.  The U.S. has charged Hopkinton, Massachusetts-based Stryker
Biotech with misbranding and its sales force with conspiring to
defraud surgeons into combining the company’s OP-1 and OP-1
Putty with the bone filler Calstrux. Some patients suffered
adverse side effects and required more surgery, the U.S. says.  “That mixture was never studied clinically,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney Susan Winkler told the jury in her opening
statement yesterday. “They did not know if it worked. They did
not know if it was safe, and they marketed it to doctors
anyway.”  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration allowed the company
to supply its products under a narrow, provisional humanitarian
exemption. The company had no FDA approval for mixing in
Calstrux, which was later pulled from the market, the U.S. says.
Stryker Biotech tracked 63 adverse events in more than 10,000
procedures involving the bone mixture, according to a defense
attorney.  A former national  sales  representative, William Heppner of
Illinois, and two regional managers, David Ard of  California ,
and Jeff Whitaker of North Carolina, are accused of wire fraud
and conspiracy. If convicted, they could face as long as 20
years in prison.  Prosecutors claim Stryker sales reps promoted “recipes”
to surgeons and medical technicians involving mixing the OP-1
products with Calstrux and molding it into “cigars,” “Tootsie
Rolls” or “Vienna sausages.” Winkler showed the jury a small
jar of OP-1, saying it cost $5,000.  Brien T. O’Connor, Stryker Biotech’s attorney, told jurors
the company sought to help surgeons heal patients.  “Surgeons were not tricked,” he said. “They chose to use
it because it worked.”  He said the government has conceded there’s no proof the
bone mixture caused a small number of reactions logged by
hospitals as “adverse events,” including fevers. Seven people
required additional surgeries, according to prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Stryker Biotech LLC, 09-cr-10330, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here.  Alliance One Should Lose Appeal Over EU Fines, Court Aide Says  Alliance One International Inc. (AOI)  should lose a challenge at
the European Union’s highest court over antitrust fines levied
for fixing the prices paid to Spanish growers for tobacco, an
adviser to the region’s top court said.  The EU’s Court of Justice should uphold a fine of 1.8
million euros ($2.3 million) levied on Alliance One and its
subsidiary Standard Commercial Tobacco Co. by the  European
Commission  for their liability concerning another unit’s
involvement in the cartel, said Advocate General Juliane Kokott
in a non-binding opinion yesterday. The court follows this
advice, at least in part, most of the time.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s antitrust
regulator, in October 2004 fined five companies a total of 20
million euros for price-fixing and production-sharing between
1996 and 2001 in the Spanish tobacco-processing market. Alliance
One lost an earlier challenge against the fine.  A call to Alliance One in Morrisville, North Carolina,
wasn’t returned outside business hours.  The case is  C-14/11 , Alliance One International and Others
v Commission, at the European Union Court of Justice.  Foreign Bribery Defendants May Fight More as Prosecutors Falter  Executives facing trial in U.S. courts over accusations of
bribing foreign officials may be encouraged to fight charges as
prosecutors regroup after two courtroom setbacks and await a
verdict in their largest overseas corruption probe targeting
individuals, Bloomberg News’ Edvard Pettersson reports.  One of two cases hailed by the government as milestones in
its enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act was
dismissed last year by a judge who said the jury verdict
convicting two men at an electricity tower company of bribing
Mexican officials was tainted by prosecutor misconduct in “a
sloppy, incomplete and notably over-zealous investigation.”  In the first prosecution under the FCPA based on a sting
operation, a judge declared a mistrial for four of 22 defendants
accused of participating in a fake $15 million weapons deal
involving Gabon. A separate trial is under way for a second
group of defendants.  The 2011 outcomes will make individual defendants in FCPA
cases more confident in contesting charges, in particular
because they may face long prison terms under the plea deals the
Justice Department offers, even as corporations continue to
self-report and settle, said Philip Urofsky, a former FCPA
prosecutor who now defends cases at  Shearman & Sterling LLP .  “If a defendant is able to finance a significant defense,
they can really put the government to the test,” Urofsky said
in a phone interview.  In a crackdown on overseas bribery that started during the
Bush administration, the government settled 57 cases against
companies from 2005 through 2011 without trial, reaping $4.1
billion for the U.S. treasury, according to Justice Department
data. A push to prosecute more individual defendants during the
same period has produced mixed results, with some beating
charges outright and others getting less punishment than
prosecutors sought.  Of the 93 people charged over the past seven years,
including 43 in 2009 alone, 41 pleaded guilty and six were
convicted at trial, according to Shearman & Sterling data. Four
defendants are fugitives, one was exonerated and three had their
cases dismissed. Of the remainder, 38 either have a trial date
scheduled or are awaiting one. The 31 defendants who’ve been
sentenced got an average of 2 years and 2 months in prison.  The Gabon case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia ( Washington ).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Lilly’s Zyprexa Pact With Health Providers Wins Approval  Eli Lilly & Co.  won approval of a $4.5 million settlement
with five union health funds and an insurer that alleged
improper marketing of its best-selling medication Zyprexa raised
their costs.  U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein in Brooklyn, New York,
approved the settlement at a hearing yesterday. The so-called
third-party payers claimed Indianapolis-based Eli Lilly’s
marketing of Zyprexa, a schizophrenia treatment, caused them to
pay more for the drug than what it was worth. A plaintiffs’
expert had estimated damages in the case as high as $7.7
billion, according to a 2010 appeals-court decision.  The U.S. appeals court in New York in September 2010
reversed Weinstein’s 2008 ruling that granted class-action
status to third-party payers, forcing them to carry on with the
litigation individually. The appeals court found that the link
between marketing Zyprexa to doctors and the injury claimed by
the payers was “attenuated.”  “It appears to be fair and reasonable,” Weinstein said
about the settlement yesterday. “The class members of the
previously certified class have been adequately consulted and
protected.”  “This settlement represents a positive outcome for Eli
Lilly, and allows us to return our focus to the patients and
health-care professionals who rely on our medications,” Eli
Lilly spokeswoman Keri McGrath Happe said in an e-mail.  The case is In re Zyprexa Products Liability Litigation,
04-md-1596, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  CVS Caremark to Pay $5 Million to Settle FTC Investigation  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , the largest U.S. provider of
prescription drugs, will pay $5 million to settle claims it
misrepresented certain Medicare drug prices, ending a two-year
antitrust and consumer protection probe by the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission.  The FTC said it decided to close its investigation “after
a thorough and comprehensive review of the other consumer
protection and competition issues in this matter,” and won’t
take any further action “at this time,” according to a  letter 
addressed to CVS Caremark’s lawyer.  The FTC began investigating the business practices of the
company in 2009 after CVS bought Caremark for $27.2 billion, the
largest acquisition ever by a drugstore. The merger sparked
complaints from consumer groups, independent pharmacists and
lawmakers, prompting the FTC to take a second look at the
combination of the pharmacy chain and pharmacy-benefits manager.
A 24-state task force also conducted a review.  The settlement, which requires CVS to reimburse consumers
who overpaid for certain prescription drugs, also bars CVS
Caremark from making deceptive claims with regard to Medicare
Part D drug prices, the FTC said yesterday in an e-mailed
 statement .  “At the conclusion of this comprehensive investigation,
the FTC made no allegations of antitrust law violations or anti-
competitive behavior associated with any of our business
practices, products or service offerings,” Douglas A. Sgarro,
executive vice president and chief legal officer of CVS
Caremark, said in a statement posted to PR Newswire. CVS
Caremark “cooperated fully” with the FTC’s investigation, he
said.  From 2007 to at least November, 2008, CVS Caremark’s
RxAmerica subsidiary posted prices for Medicare Part D
prescription drugs available at CVS and Walgreens pharmacies
that were lower than the actual prices in stores, the FTC said
in the statement. The deceptive prices caused many consumers to
chose RxAmerica plans and pay “significantly more than they
expected for their drugs,” the FTC said.  “This settlement puts money back in the pockets of older
Americans who struggle to pay for their medications,” FTC
Chairman Jon Leibowitz said in the statement. “With the cost of
health care on the rise, the FTC is especially focused on
protecting consumers from any deceptive claims that would cause
them to pay more than they should.”  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Walgreen, Par Accused of Plot to Overcharge for Generic Drugs  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the biggest U.S. drugstore chain, and generic
drugmaker  Par Pharmaceutical Cos. (PRX)  were accused in a lawsuit of
swapping prescription-drug tablets for more expensive capsules
to boost profits.  “Walgreen’s and Par engaged in at least two widespread
schemes to overcharge insurance companies, self-insured
employers and union health and welfare funds,” the United Food
& Commercial Workers Unions & Employers Midwest Health Benefits
Fund said in a complaint filed Jan. 11 in federal court in
Chicago.  The drugs involved included generic versions of Zantac and
Prozac, according to the complaint. The fund and other third-
party payers paid millions of dollars more for the capsules than
they would have for the correctly prescribed tablets, said the
fund, which is seeking to sue on behalf of all third-party
payers in the U.S. from 2001 to 2006.  The companies’ actions violated federal racketeering laws,
according to the complaint. The fund is asking for unspecified
cash damages.  Vivika Panagiotakakos, a spokeswoman for Deerfield,
Illinois-based Walgreen, declined to comment on the filing.  The media relations department of Woodcliff Lake, New
Jersey-based Par didn’t reply to an e-mailed request for comment
on the suit after regular business hours yesterday.  The case is United Food and Commercial Workers Unions and
Employers Midwest Health Benefits Fund v. Walgreen Co., 12-
cv-00204, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  Barclays’s Absa Sues Nedbank for $95 Million Over Trading Losses  Absa Group Ltd., (ASA)  the South African bank controlled by
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , sued the country’s fourth-largest bank,  Nedbank
Group Ltd. (NED) , for 773 million rand ($95 million) in trading
losses.  Absa has “issued a summons against Nedbank in relation to
the events surrounding the trading of single-stock futures over
the shares of Pinnacle Point Holdings, and subsequent
defaults,” Marthinus Van Rensburg, the head of Johannesburg-
based Absa’s legal team, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The lender “cannot comment further in relation to
this matter, which is now the subject of legal proceedings,” he
said.  A Nedbank unit, Syfrets, had to buy shares in a South
African leisure and property company called Acc-Ross in 2007
when it traded the single-stock futures in the company on behalf
of clients of South African stock broker, Cortex Securities. The
holding in Acc-Ross, which was renamed  Pinnacle Point Group Ltd. (PNG) 
in 2008, increased beyond 35 percent, which by law should have
forced Nedbank to make an offer to minority shareholders.
Pinnacle Point shares declined more than 90 percent after
Nedbank sold its stake.  Barclays Plc-owned Absa was obligated in 2008 to acquire
stakes in Pinnacle Point and three other companies after Cortex,
for which Absa was the clearing bank, defaulted on payments for
the single-stock futures linked to the four stocks. Absa in 2010
agreed to sell its Pinnacle stake after taking a 931 million-
rand writedown on the investment.  Nedbank, which is controlled by  Old Mutual Plc (OML) ,
successfully argued in a hearing with the Securities Regulation
Panel in May 2010 that it was an intermediary and not intent on
gaining control of Acc-Ross.  “The Securities Regulation Panel looked at issues
surrounding the Pinnacle single-stock futures and ruled in our
favor and similarly we do not think this claim has any merit,”
Nedbank Chief Executive Officer Mike Brown said in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday.  “The whole matter is fraught with negligence and
recklessness, but we cannot find any indication of an intention
on the part of Nedbank to gain control over Acc-Ross,” the
regulator said in a statement in August 2010.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Litigation Departments  Raj Rajaratnam  Prosecutor Jonathan Streeter Joins Dechert Firm  Jonathan Streeter, one of the federal prosecutors at the
U.S. attorney’s office in Manhattan who secured the conviction
of hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam, will join  Dechert LLP (1154L) .  Streeter, 43, was voted into the partnership at the
Philadelphia-based firm and is expected to start work in
February, Beth Huffman, a spokeswoman for Dechert, said
yesterday in a phone interview.  Rajaratnam, the former Galleon Group LLC hedge fund
manager, was convicted last year of directing the biggest
insider-trading ring in a generation. It was one of the first
insider-trading cases in which the government made extensive use
of wiretaps.  A federal jury in Manhattan convicted Rajaratnam on May 11
of all 14 counts of securities fraud and conspiracy against him.
During the two-month trial, the panel heard evidence that he
engaged in a seven-year conspiracy to trade on inside
information from corporate executives, bankers, consultants,
traders and directors of public companies.  Rajaratnam was sentenced to 11 years in prison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 