-- Nigerian Labor Unions to Continue Strike With No Deal Yet on Subsidies
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-13T07:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/nigeria-s-general-strike-resumes-after-talks-fail-to-reach-subsidy-accord.html
Nigeria ’s general strike entered its
fifth day, threatening oil exports from Africa’s top producer,
after President Goodluck Jonathan and labor leaders failed to
end a dispute over fuel subsidies.  Jonathan and union leaders will resume talks tomorrow after
holding “fruitful” negotiations yesterday in Abuja, the
capital, Abdulwaheed Omar, president of the Nigeria Labour
Congress, told reporters. The strike has limited trading in
stocks and the national currency as well as closed ports and
banks and sparked street protests.  The unions are trying to force Jonathan to reverse his
decision on Jan. 1 to scrap 1.2 trillion naira ($7.4 billion) in
fuel subsidies that more than doubled gasoline prices. The oil
union Pengassan said yesterday it would begin shutting down
crude production on Jan. 15 if there was no deal with the
government, while its counterpart Nupeng said it has withdrawn
its workers from fields operated by companies such as  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Jonathan, who won a four-year term in April, pledged to use
savings to invest in  power plants  and roads in sub-Saharan
Africa’s second-largest economy. At the same time he faces an
increase in religious violence in parts of the north where he
has declared a state of emergency and says Islamic militants
pose a worse threat to the country than the 1967-70 civil war.  More than 85 people have died in bomb and gun attacks since
Christmas Day on churches in Abuja, and in the north that the
authorities blame on Boko Haram.  Crude for February delivery rose 87 cents to $99.97 in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 6:48
a.m. in London.  Gasoline Prices  Gasoline prices in Nigeria, where two-thirds of the
population of about 164 million live on less than $1.25 a day,
had been capped at 65 naira a liter (0.3 gallon), undermining
investment in refineries that forced the West African nation to
import about 70 percent of its fuel.  The cost of the strike to the economy may be more than $1
billion a day, Gregory Kronsten, head of macroeconomic research
at FBN Capital Ltd. in London, wrote in an e-mailed note
yesterday.  Nigeria’s benchmark stock index may extend its 21 percent
drop over the past 12 months if the strike disrupts oil exports,
investor  Mark Mobius  said.  “We could have some very substantial corrections as a
result of these moves, particularly if the unions succeed in
cutting off the exports of petroleum,” Mobius, who helps
oversee about $40 billion as executive chairman of Franklin
Templeton Investment’s Emerging Markets Group, said yesterday in
a phone interview from Cancun,  Mexico .  Stock Exchange  The value of trading yesterday on the  Nigerian Stock
Exchange  was 350 million naira, according to figures e-mailed by
the bourse. Normal trading is 2 billion naira a day, Samuel
Onukwue, managing director of Mega Equnaira Ltd., a Lagos-based
brokerage, said by phone.  Nigeria pumped about 2.2 million barrels of oil a day last
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At least 90
percent of Nigeria’s crude is pumped by Shell, based in The
Hague,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  San Ramon , California-based  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) , Total SA and  Eni SpA (ENI)  in joint ventures with the state-
owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.  An attempt by the unions to shut down production “would
not necessarily have an immediate or severe impact on operations
due to the high level of automation in the process, the presence
of non-unionized and foreign workers and tight security at oil
installations,” IHS Global Insight Africa analyst Sebastian Boe
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Oil accounts for about 80 percent of state revenue and more
than 95 percent of export income, according to the  Finance
Ministry .  Cocoa prices have gained 8.2 percent this week in  London  on
concern the strike will stop shipments from the world’s fourth-
biggest producer of the chocolate ingredient. The labor action
has halted cocoa grading and transportation of the beans from
farms, according to the Cocoa Association of Nigeria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  