-- Nigerian Labor Unions Plan to Halt Protests at Weekend, Continue Strike
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-13T16:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/nigerian-labor-unions-plan-to-halt-protests-at-weekend-continue-strike.html
Nigeria ’s biggest labor federations
will halt street protests this weekend to give negotiators time
to end a dispute over fuel subsidies that has sparked a
nationwide strike, the Nigeria Labour Congress said.  The strike will continue, and the main oil workers’ union,
Pengassan, said it will meet tomorrow to decide whether to
proceed with plans due to start on Jan. 15 to shut down fields
operated by companies such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in Africa’s
biggest oil industry.  The general strike entered its fifth day after President
Goodluck Jonathan and labor leaders failed yesterday to resolve
the dispute over the government’s decision on Jan. 1 to scrap
1.2 trillion naira ($7.4 billion) in fuel subsidies that more
than doubled gasoline prices. The action has limited trading in
stocks and the national currency, closed ports and banks and
sparked street protests.  “I’m optimistic that the strike will be resolved within 24
hours; the cost of this strike has been monumental,”  Bismarck Rewane , chief executive officer of Lagos-based Financial
Derivatives Co., said today by phone. “The government is under
pressure to resolve the issues and the tolerance by protesters
to continue the strike is getting low.”  Jonathan Under Pressure  Jonathan, who won a four-year term in April, pledged to use
savings to invest in  power plants  and roads in sub-Saharan
Africa’s second-largest economy. At the same time he faces an
increase in religious violence in parts of the north where he
has declared a state of emergency and says Islamic militants
pose a worse threat to the country than the 1967-70 civil war.  A deal between the government and the unions may reinstate
as much as 70 percent of the fuel subsidy with agreements for
more cuts in April, Philippe de Pontet, director of sub-Saharan
 Africa  at New York-based Eurasia Group, wrote in a report today.  “While investors may be consoled that partial reform is
better than no reform, the mishandling of this episode,
especially in the context of an ineffective response to the Boko
Haram security threat, has greatly weakened Jonathan’s
presidency, creating headwinds for future reform efforts,” he
said.  Brent crude  for February delivery fell 65 cents to $110.61
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange at 3:56 p.m. in
London.  Gasoline Prices  Gasoline prices in Nigeria, where two-thirds of the
population of about 164 million live on less than $1.25 a day,
had been capped at 65 naira a liter (0.3 gallon), leading to a
shortage of investment in refineries that forced the West
African nation to import about 70 percent of its fuel.  The cost of the strike to the economy may be more than $1
billion a day, Gregory Kronsten, head of macroeconomic research
at FBN Capital Ltd. in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note
yesterday.  The  Nigerian Stock Exchange  All-Share Index declined 0.2
percent to 20,840.97 at the close in Lagos, according to a
statement on bourse’s website. The value of trading today on the
exchange was 388 million naira, according to the statement.  Trading on the bourse this week was about a third of the
1.05 billion shares that changed hands last week, the Nigerian
Stock Exchange said in an e-mailed report today.  The currency weakened 0.1 percent to 162.105 per dollar as
of 3:08 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital.  Nigeria pumped about 2.2 million barrels of oil a day last
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At least 90
percent of Nigeria’s crude is pumped by Shell, based in The
Hague,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  San Ramon , California-based  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) , Total SA and  Eni SpA (ENI)  in joint ventures with the state-
owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  