-- Novartis to Cut 1,960 U.S. Jobs, Take $1.22 Billion in Charges on Tekturna
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-01-13T17:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/novartis-to-eliminate-1-960-u-s-jobs-take-900-million-charge-on-rasilez.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  will cut 1,960 jobs in
the U.S. and take $1.22 billion of charges to prepare for lower
sales of two blood-pressure drugs.  Novartis will take a $900 million charge against fourth-
quarter results after lowering expectations for revenue from the
hypertension pill Tekturna, and an expense of $160 million to
end research on two experimental medicines, the Basel,
Switzerland-based company said in a statement today. The job
cuts, in anticipation of generic competition for the Diovan
treatment, will lead to a $160 million first-quarter charge.  Chief Executive Officer Joe Jimenez has been cutting
expenses since he took the job in February 2010. He has also
been trying to boost sales from specialist-prescribed drugs,
such as the multiple sclerosis pill Gilenya and Afinitor for
cancer, to replace revenue from Diovan, the top-selling drug
that lost patent protection in  Europe  last year and will do so
in the U.S. in September.  The provision for Tekturna “suggests that its future is
bleak,”  Mark Purcell , an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London ,
wrote in a note today. “Novartis will struggle to deliver
growth anywhere near consensus estimates,” Purcell wrote. He
rates the stock “underweight.”  Novartis fell 0.7 percent to 53 Swiss francs in Zurich
trading, compared with a 0.4 percent decline in the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index. The company’s stock has returned
0.4 percent in the past year, including reinvested dividends,
compared with a 16 percent return for the index.  Tekturna Woes  Novartis last month halted a trial of Tekturna, sold as
Rasilez outside the U.S., in patients with diabetes because some
experienced more non-fatal strokes and kidney complications. The
drug, first approved in 2007 for lowering  blood pressure , is now
being reviewed by the European Medicines Agency. Tekturna had
sales of $449 million in the first nine months of the year.  Analysts had predicted Tekturna sales of $1.4 billion by
2016 and “you can easily take $1 billion” off that figure,
said Martin Voegtli, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in
Zurich, in a telephone interview.  “Earnings will come down,” Voegtli said. “The new
products that are growing have a much lower margin than
Diovan.” He has a “hold” rating on Novartis. Diovan had sales
of $4.3 billion in the first nine months of 2011.  Job Cuts  The job reductions equal about 1.6 percent of Novartis’s
workforce of about 119,400 people, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. About 1,630 of those cut will be salespeople, with
the rest coming from U.S. headquarters, the company said. The
jobs will be eliminated in the second quarter. The cuts will
result in annual savings of $450 million by 2013.  It’s the third round of job cuts announced in the past 14
months. In October the company said it would eliminate 2,000
jobs in Switzerland and the U.S., after saying in November 2010
it would cut 1,400 jobs in the U.S.  The restructuring of Novartis’s U.S. pharmaceuticals
business “was widely expected” in light of the Diovan patent
expiration and the disappointing results in the Tekturna trial,
Karl Heinz Koch, an analyst at Helvea SA in Zurich, wrote in a
note today.  The combination of the job cuts and strategic shift
“should increase confidence that margins in pharmaceuticals are
sustainable even as Novartis goes through the Diovan patent
expiry,” Koch wrote. He recommends buying the shares.  Novartis also said today it was terminating development of
PRT128, also known as elinogrel, for  heart disease  and SMC021,
known as oral calcitonin, for bone ailments.  “We recognize that the next two years will be challenging
in the pharmaceuticals division and we are proactively making
these changes to further focus our pipeline on the best
opportunities and align our market position on our growth
brands,”  David Epstein , head of the unit, said in the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva  at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  