-- Nuclear Industry Safety Plan ‘Acceptable,’ NRC Official Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-01-13T19:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/nuclear-industry-safety-plan-acceptable-nrc-official-says-1-.html
An industry plan to place emergency
pumps and generators at nuclear plants has an “acceptable
methodology,” which helped persuade the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission to speed a review of safety steps, an official said.  The plan has “features that we believe will serve to
mitigate” damage from unexpected events such as earthquakes and
flooding, Martin Virgilio, the NRC’s deputy executive director
for reactor and preparedness programs, said today at a meeting
at agency headquarters in Rockville,  Maryland .  The agency must ensure it has adequate oversight of the
industry’s proposal, Virgilio said.  The NRC is weighing rules to improve safety at 104 U.S.
operating reactors after an earthquake and tsunami triggered
meltdowns and radiation leaks at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in  Japan  in March. The  Nuclear Energy
Institute , a Washington-based industry group, has said the
agency shouldn’t move too quickly in implementing rules, because
the lessons from Fukushima aren’t fully known.  The industry organization offered a plan in December as a
way to ensure that a plant has back-up electricity when power is
lost. Reactor owners would install portable equipment, including
batteries, hoses and pumps in staging areas to ensure a plant
has electricity and water to maintain cooling systems during an
emergency.  Reactor Core Damage  The plan “is really focused on the prevention of core
damage,” Tony Pietrangelo, NEI’s senior vice president and
chief nuclear officer, said at today’s meeting. With NRC
approval, reactor owners could begin to take steps to implement
the plan by mid-year, he said. Plant modifications may take at
least two years, according to Pietrangelo.  The industry plan would help lessen the likelihood of
flooding hazards, he said. The backup-power sources at Fukushima
were destroyed by the tsunami.  The group doesn’t have a cost estimate for the plan because
specific plants would need different equipment, Adrian Heymer,
the industry group’s executive director of strategic programs,
told reporters during a Jan. 11 conference call.  The industry’s proposal is “overly optimistic,”  David Lochbaum , director of the Nuclear Safety Project for the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Union of Concerned Scientists,
said in an e-mail.  The plan “falsely assumes that its measures will be 100
percent successful,” he said. For example, if fuel damage
occurs during an accident, high radiation levels may prevent
workers from entering an area where they need to make
connections to additional water supplies, Lochbaum said.  The plan, along with recommendations from Congress, helped
the NRC staff decide to “accelerate our schedule” of its
review of Fukushima-related safety improvements, Virgilio said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  