-- NYSE-Deutsche Boerse Appeal Direct to Barroso in Deal Fight
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-01-13T18:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/nyse-deutsche-boerse-appeal-direct-to-barroso-in-fight-for-exchange-merger.html
NYSE Euronext (NYSE)  and  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) 
appealed directly to European Commission President  Jose Barroso 
as they fought to salvage their merger, arguing that blocking it
would “represent a serious missed opportunity at a critical
juncture for Europe.”  The exchanges told Barroso that failure to approve the
takeover would place European exchanges at a competitive
disadvantage, according to a copy of a letter sent seen by
Bloomberg News. The decision would hurt the creation of
transparent European markets and drive business to more lightly
regulated regions, they said in the letter.  Should the  combination  be prohibited, “the global
consolidation of exchanges might very well shift the balance
towards countries favoring light-touch regulation, which would
severely endanger the European Commission’s agenda,” the
exchanges said. “Approving the proposed combination of Deutsche
Boerse and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  would significantly increase the
likelihood that the European Union’s regulatory philosophy would
become the global standard.”  Chief Executive Officers  Duncan Niederauer  and Reto Francioni are fighting antitrust concerns, appealing directly to
politicians and other European regulators as they seek to
salvage their plan to create the world’s largest exchange
company. Two people familiar with the talks told Bloomberg last
month that concessions offered by the exchanges didn’t go far
enough and negotiators for the European Commission planned to
prohibit the deal.  ‘Bridgehead of Integrity’  The exchanges “have shown themselves to be a bridgehead of
integrity and transparency against a tidal wave of opacity and
greed that permeates the less-regulated segments of financial
markets,” the letter said. The combination will “offer a
unique opportunity to deepen regulatory cooperation and reduce
the risk of regulatory arbitrage,” it said.  NYSE and  Deutsche Boerse  still have room to maneuver.
Before deciding whether to approve or block a deal, the European
Commission must consult competition agencies from the European
Union’s 27 member nations, who are scheduled to meet Jan. 17,
according to a person familiar with the situation.  Commissioner Vote  Commissioners from each EU country must also vote on a
decision and executives can appeal a merger ban at the EU
courts. Companies including Oracle Corp. have managed to
complete deals to which the European Commission had initial
objections.  The European Commission will decide on the deal on Feb. 1,
EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust
chief, told France24 radio in an interview today.  “We’re going to decide on Feb. 1 here at the commission,”
he said. “We don’t think of the interests of the exchanges’
shareholders, we think above all of the interest of citizens, we
think of the companies who need capital, of the countries, of
the national economies of  Europe  who need  capital markets  which
work well.”  The German government today indicated it wouldn’t
intervene.  “The power to make a decision in this case lies
exclusively with the European Union,” Ann-Christin Wiegemann, a
spokeswoman for the  Economy Ministry , told reporters in Berlin
today, adding she has no information on whether the German
government is in touch with the European Commission on the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  