-- Obama’s Plan for Reorganizing Agencies Hits Skepticism From Lawmakers
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-01-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/obama-will-seek-authority-to-merge-agencies-in-effort-to-shrink-government.html
President  Barack Obama ’s request for
authority to streamline U.S. executive agencies was greeted with
skepticism from congressional Republicans while Democrats
questioned elements of his reorganization plan.  The president said yesterday he wants to be able to
undertake any consolidation that would save money and shrink
government, subject to a “fast-track” vote of approval or
disapproval by Congress in 90 days.  He said his first action would be replacing the Commerce
Department with a yet unnamed agency that folds in the U.S.
Trade Representative, the Export-Import Bank, the Overseas
Private Investment Corp., the Trade and Development Agency and
the  Small Business Administration .  “The government we have is not the government that we
need,” Obama said yesterday at the White House. “Our economy
has fundamentally changed -- as has the world -- but our
government, our agencies, have not.”  Obama’s proposal would require action from Congress, where
Republicans have stalled much of his agenda in the past year.
It’s also coming as both parties are gearing up for November’s
elections that will decide control of the White House, the
Senate and the House of representatives.  Susan Schwab, who was U.S. Trade Representative under
President  George W. Bush , said Obama will have a tough time
getting cooperation from lawmakers.  “It’s obviously hard to imagine a president whose campaign
is focusing on running against Congress then going to get fast-
track legislation from Congress,” Schwab said in an interview.  ‘Worth Exploring’  Brendan Buck , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner ,
an Ohio Republican, said eliminating duplication and making
government more business friendly “is always an idea worth
exploring.”  Still, he said, “Given the president’s record of growing
government, we’re interested to learn whether this proposal
represents actual relief for American businesses or just the
appearance of it.”  Several key Democrats reacted cautiously, saying they
wanted to see the details. They also expressed concern over
Obama’s request for an up-or-down vote on any reorganization
plan without giving lawmakers the opportunity to make changes.  Michigan Representative  Sander Levin , the senior Democrat
on the Ways and Means Committee, said Congress should consider
Obama’s request.  Role for Congress  “As we do so, we must ensure a meaningful role for
Congress on all reorganization proposals at every juncture,”
Levin said in an e-mailed statement.  Obama’s proposal to move the U.S. Trade Representative’s
office into a new department drew bipartisan objections from the
chairmen of the committees that oversee trade policy.  “Taking USTR, one of the most efficient agencies that is a
model of how government can and should work, and making it just
another corner of a new bureaucratic behemoth would hurt
American exports and hinder American  job creation ,” Senate
Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Democrat, and House
Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a Republican, said
in a joint statement.  Schwab also was critical of moving the USTR. The trade
representative’s office is “one of the few things that actually
works,” she said.  Obama asked lawmakers to restore executive authority to
streamline the executive branch granted during the Great
Depression and last held by President  Ronald Reagan  to
reorganize agencies.  SBA Chief  For the time being, Obama said he is elevating the head of
the Small Business Administration, Karen Mills, to Cabinet rank,
a move that doesn’t require congressional approval.  The consolidation effort could lead to the loss of 1,000 to
2,000 government jobs, which would be achieved through
attrition, according to Jeffrey Zients, the deputy budget
director, who was tapped to lead the effort to develop a
proposal. The goal is to save $3 billion over 10 years.  Zients said the new department will consist of four units:
trade and investment, including enforcement, financing and
promotion; small business and economic development; technology
and innovation, including the patent office; and statistics.  The statistics division would house the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, which reports monthly unemployment figures, and the
 Bureau of Economic Analysis , which tracks such data as gross
domestic product,  consumer spending , corporate profit and the
balance of trade.  Next Steps  If Congress grants Obama the authority, he would follow the
reorganization with additional consolidations to address “other
areas of fragmentation and inefficiency across government,”
Zients said.  Gary Hufbauer , a senior fellow with the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in Washington, said the changes
could eventually boost trade, though it would take a while to
sort out the bureaucracies.  “I think it would help your trade performance, Hufbauer
said. “For most companies that have an issue with the
government, it’s one-stop shopping.”  Obama first proposed a reorganization in last year’s State
of the Union Address. The president yesterday cited several
examples of duplication, including five entities that deal with
housing and more than a dozen involved with  food safety .  “No business or nonprofit leader would allow this kind of
duplication or unnecessary complexity in their operations,” he
said.  The  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , which
Zients said accounts for more than half of the Commerce budget,
would move to the Interior Department.  The Government Accountability Office said in March 2011
that U.S. economic-development programs are  “fragmented”  and
their efficiency and effectiveness are “unclear.” For example,
some 52 federal programs can fund “entrepreneurial efforts,”
GAO found.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  