-- Obama Aides Knew Solyndra Planned 2010 Layoffs, E-Mails Show
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-01-13T22:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/obama-aides-knew-solyndra-planned-2010-layoffs-e-mails-show.html
The Obama administration knew before
the 2010 election that Solyndra LLC, a solar-panel maker that
received a $535 million U.S. loan guarantee, planned to fire
workers, according to e-mails released today.  The messages don’t indicate that anyone from the White
House directed Solyndra to delay announcing the layoffs until
after the vote. Previously released e-mails, indicating the
Energy Department urged Solyndra to postpone the cuts, have been
cited by  House Republicans  who say politics influenced
Solyndra’s award and last-ditch rescue bid that put taxpayers
behind $75 million in private investment.  “Here’s the deal -- Solyndra is going to announce they are
laying off 200 of their 1200 workers,”  Heather Zichal , a White
House adviser, wrote to  Carol Browner , then director of the
office of Energy and Climate Change Policy, and other officials
on Oct. 27, 2010.  “No es bueno.”  The White House released the e-mails to the Republicans on
the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s investigations panel,
which has been investigating Solyndra’s loan guarantee since
February.  Kathryn Ruemmler, counsel to President Barack Obama, said
in a letter to Representatives  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican
and chairman of the energy committee, and  Cliff Stearns , a
Florida Republican who heads the investigations panel, that
congressional investigators have now received more than 186,000
pages of documents from the administration and 72,000 pages from
Solyndra investors.  ‘On the Merits’  The documents show the decision to award the guarantee in
2009 and to restructure its terms to aid the company avoid
bankruptcy were made by the Energy Department “on the merits,”
Ruemmler wrote in a letter signed with Cynthia Hogan, counsel to
Vice President  Joe Biden .  Republicans in a Nov. 15 memo cited e-mails from advisers
to the company that indicated the  Department of Energy  sought to
delay the announcement of the 2010 layoffs.  “They did push very hard for us to hold our announcement
of the consolidation to employees and vendors to Nov. 3rd --
oddly they didn’t give a reason for that date,” an adviser to
Argonaut Private Equity of Tulsa,  Oklahoma , who wasn’t
identified, wrote an associate in an e-mail. Argonaut was an
investor in the company.  The Republican memo said  Brian Harrison , who was Solyndra’s
chief executive officer, told the department he wanted to inform
employees about the jobs cuts on Oct. 28, 2010, five days before
the election.  Fab 2  A day after the vote, on Nov. 3, Solyndra said it was
closing a manufacturing plant built before it received the U.S.
aid and was firing workers to cut costs. The company shifted
operations to Fab 2, a $733 million factory built with the help
of the $535 million guarantee.  Energy Secretary Steven Chu told the committee at a Nov. 17
hearing that he wasn’t aware of an effort to delay the
announcement, and that it wouldn’t be a “proper way to do
business.”  Solyndra filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6, about
two years after it won the loan guarantee. Its offices were
raided by the FBI on Sept. 8.  The loan guarantee to the Fremont, California-based company
has proved to be a political embarrassment for the
administration, which included the loan-guarantee program in its
2009 economic stimulus as a potential job creator.  Stearns and Upton have said White House and Energy
Department officials ignored red flags warning of Solyndra’s
financial woes prior to the loan.  So far, Republicans have been unable to back up assertions
that the White House may have intervened in the award as payback
to  George Kaiser , an Oklahoma billionaire and fundraiser for
President  Barack Obama , whose foundation also was a major
investor in Solyndra.  Kaiser has said he never lobbied the administration on
Solyndra’s behalf.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  