-- Obama’s Reorganization Raises Concerns About Trade Effectiveness
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-01-13T21:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/obama-s-reorganization-raises-concerns-about-trade-effectiveness.html
A proposal by President  Barack Obama 
to reorganize U.S. trade agencies would force together
departments that have different missions, something industry
groups say may diminish effectiveness.  Obama announced today the first step in a plan to revamp
the federal government, which includes combining the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office and Commerce Department, among others,
and reducing the workforce.  “The point is that USTR works,” said Susan Schwab, a
trade representative during  George W. Bush ’s administration and
now a professor at the University of  Maryland  at  College Park .
“You want from the Commerce Department a full-throated,
unapologetic advocate for the U.S. industry. You don’t want an
agency that has to pull its punches.”  She said it would be “crazy to fold” the trade office
into the  Department of Commerce  or some bigger entity because
it’s small size is what has made it effective.  Gary Hufbauer , a senior fellow with the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in Washington, said the current
structure of multiple agencies creates confusion, especially for
small businesses.  ‘One-Stop Shopping’  Hufbauer said, “For most companies that have an issue with
the government, it’s one-stop shopping.”  The improved efficiency may not be realized immediately as
the changes could take time, Hufbauer said. Companies, such as
 Boeing Co. (BA) , are waiting to review specifics of the
reorganization.  “In principal, we support efforts to increase the
efficient function of government, including by means such as
consolidation or streamlining of processes,” Sean McCormack,
spokesman for Chicago-based Boeing, said in an e-mail. “We will
need to study today’s proposal in more detail to ensure that
critical, effective functions of government are not diminished
as a result of the proposed consolidation.”  The president said his plan is aimed at making the U.S.
government leaner and more consumer-friendly. The first step,
which requires action by Congress, would be to merge six trade-
related agencies, now spread out among different departments,
into a single unit.  “It’s redundant and inefficient,” Obama said today in
 Washington . “With the authority I am requesting today, we could
consolidate them all into one department with one website, one
phone number and one mission -- helping American businesses
succeed.”  CEO Power  Obama is seeking the ability to combine federal agencies,
and let Congress approve or reject the plan without amendments.
This would restore power to reorganize agencies that had been
granted to presidents.  John Engler , president of the Washington-based  Business
Roundtable , an association of chief executive officers, said he
supported Obama’s authority to reorganize the government.  “In companies across America, CEOs react to rapidly
changing conditions,” Engler said in a statement. “They have
to be able to eliminate inefficiencies and deploy resources
where they will be most effective. In the federal government,
the president should have the same ability that CEOs and many
governors have.”  The business and trade functions of the Commerce Department
along with the U.S. Trade Representative, the Export-Import
Bank, the Overseas Private Investment Corp., the Trade and
Development Agency and the  Small Business Administration  would
be consolidated into one department. The National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration would move to the Interior Department
from Commerce.  Negotiator as Arbiter  Currently, the trade representative negotiates free-trade
and multilateral agreements while Commerce enforces them, filing
complaints over violations, and promotes exports.  Lumping those functions together could hurt both.
Negotiators may be more likely to add exceptions to accords,
hampering enforcement, said  William Reinsch , the president of
the  National Foreign Trade Council .  “You don’t want your trade negotiator to be the arbiter of
trade law and enforcement,” Reinsch said. “The concessions to
trade laws would be overwhelming.”  The reorganization may lead to confusion at a time when the
administration is trying to boost trade and reduce unemployment,
said Scott Lincicome, a trade attorney with White & Case LLP in
Washington.  “It raises concerns -- which agency will become the more
dominant?” Lincicome said.  Doubling Exports  Obama has set a goal of doubling U.S. exports to $3.14
trillion by 2015, from $1.57 trillion in 2009. The U.S. exported
$177.8 billion in goods and services in November, with shipment
for the past year totaling $2.09 trillion, according to data
released today from the Commerce Department. The 12-month total
is more than 32 percent higher than 2009.  “The administration has to carefully consider the
importance of collapsing nimble and adept agencies such a USTR
into a broader organization when you’re dealing with markets
that are as complicated as  Russia  is,” said Randi Levinas,
executive vice president of the U.S.-Russia Business Council,
with members such as  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   Scott Paul , the executive director of the Washington-based
Alliance for American Manufacturing, said Obama’s efforts are
misguided unless they deals with a high trade deficit, loss of
manufacturing jobs and illegal trade practices of U.S. partners.  “Moving boxes and people around won’t change the approach,
it will only divert attention away from the real challenge --
restoring economic growth and opportunity,” Paul said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  