-- Hoboken Puts End to Annual St. Patrick’s Day Parade Famed as Raucous Party
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-01-13T20:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/hoboken-puts-an-end-to-st-patrick-s-parade-famous-for-getting-out-of-hand.html
A 25-year tradition of partying in
the shadow of midtown  Manhattan  was snuffed today when  Hoboken (9609MF) 
St. Patrick’s Parade organizers canceled its annual march,
citing the city’s “inability to protect” participants.  Last year’s parade on the  New Jersey (STONJ1)  side of the  Hudson
River  led to reports of two sexual assaults, in addition to
arrests for fighting, public urination and disorderly conduct.
Mayor Dawn Zimmer said then that the parade, which is privately
organized by a group of residents, must be moved to a Wednesday
to cut down on the misbehavior.  The feast of Patrick, a Roman Catholic bishop and patron
saint of Ireland, is March 17, and the Hoboken parade has been
held the first Saturday of March since 1986. The event “has
been a glorious day to honor Saint Patrick and our Irish
heritage” and was a “strong catalyst” for revitalization,
organizers said in a statement.  “The city of Hoboken’s inability to protect our
spectators, bands and participants led us to this heartbreaking
decision,” organizers said in the statement on their  website .  Hoboken, a square-mile city that is the birthplace of  Frank
Sinatra , has become known for its bars, restaurants and
nightlife. The St. Patrick’s celebration has brought more than
30,000 visitors into the city, according to the Jersey Journal.  ‘No-Tolerance’  In 2009, the city put into effect a “no-tolerance” policy
to combat disorder before, during and after the parade. Partying
typically began at 9 a.m., when bars opened, and lasted all
weekend. In 2010, Hoboken issued more than 500 summonses during
the parade, with more than 200 people ordered to perform
community service, according to the city’s  website .  Hoboken was immortalized in “On the Waterfront,” a 1954
drama starring  Marlon Brando  as a dockworker who stands against
union corruption. In the 1980s, the city started overcoming its
decayed industrial base to become a haven for artists,  New York 
City commuters and young parents.  Zimmer, at a news conference at  City Hall , said the
parade was “a beautiful event” in which she was proud to
march each year.  “Unfortunately, the aftermath of the parade feels like an
uncontrollable siege of our community,” said Zimmer, according
to prepared remarks provided by Juan Melli, a spokesman. “Last
year it reached a fever pitch with high levels of property
damage, urination on the streets and on people’s homes, sexual
assaults and flower pots were even thrown on our firemen when
they responded to a call.”  Smashed Door  One resident told the mayor her antique stained glass door,
which survived during riots decades ago, was destroyed “when a
frustrated party goer chose to smash the door so that he could
get into a party,” Zimmer said.  The city last year put every officer on duty and had back-
up forces from  New Jersey  Transit, the  Port Authority  of New
York and New Jersey and surrounding municipalities.  “If it feels like I have to bring in the National Guard to
deal with an event to protect our residents, then we have to
make a change,” Zimmer said.  Parade organizers said in their statement that “the idea
of marching in a parade, in the dark, on a weeknight, is as
insulting as it is unreasonable.”  Bill Coughlin, the husband of parade founder and chairwoman
Helen Cunning, said today that he wouldn’t rule out a future
celebration of some sort.  “We canceled the parade for 2012 and that’s really all I
can say,” Coughlin said in a telephone interview. “We run a
parade on the first Saturday in March. It starts at 1 p.m. By 3
p.m. our event is over. Our take has always been we are not
responsible for what goes on before or after the parade.”  The celebration has no official link to the city, he said.  “It is run by a group of friends, family in town,”
Coughlin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  