-- Oil Falls to Lowest Level in Three Weeks on Plans to Delay Iranian Embargo
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-01-13T22:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/oil-falls-to-lowest-level-in-three-weeks-on-plans-to-delay-iranian-embargo.html
Oil dropped to a three-week low
after two European Union officials said an embargo on Iranian
crude imports may be postponed for six months.  Crude fell 0.4 percent as officials said that the ban would
be delayed to allow nations to find new supply. International
Atomic Energy Agency inspectors will go to Tehran to discuss
 Iran ’s nuclear program, two diplomats said. Futures also
declined after French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said
 Standard & Poor’s  is stripping France of its AAA credit rating.  “We’re still digesting the Iran news,” said Chris Dillman, an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “Prices dropped on the news that the EU had pushed
back the embargo and may fall further when we get more
information about the inspectors’ visit. Anything that reduces
tension with Iran sends prices lower.”  Crude oil for February delivery fell 40 cents to $98.70 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Dec. 21. Oil dropped 2.8 percent this week and
is up 8 percent from a year earlier.  Brent oil for February settlement declined 82 cents, or 0.7
percent, to end the session at $110.44 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The February contract expires
Jan. 16. March futures dropped 70 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
$110.35 a barrel.  There will be no floor trading in  New York  on Jan. 16
because of the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday.  “The weekly move has been relatively weak when you
consider all the news,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at
Citi Futures Perspective in New York.  Iranian Threat  Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi threatened on
Dec. 27 to block the Strait of Hormuz, the transit route for
about a fifth of the world’s oil, if the EU bans the country’s
oil exports. U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Martin Dempsey said Jan. 9 that Iran can temporarily choke off the
waterway. About 17 million barrels of oil a day passes through
the strait, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  “Some of the geopolitical premium has come out of the
price during the last two days,” said  John Kilduff , a partner
at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses
on energy. “The announcement that the EU sanctions would be
delayed has had a major impact on the market.”  Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries including  Saudi Arabia  would be able to make up for a
drop in Iranian supplies to  Europe , former OPEC President Chakib Khelil said today on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move.”  Nuclear Program  Rising tension between Iran and the West over the country’s
nuclear development has spurred price increases in the past
year. The U.S. and its European allies suspect Iran of using the
program to create atomic weapons. The government in Tehran says
the technology is for domestic power generation.  The Vienna-based IAEA, the  United Nations ’ nuclear
watchdog, agreed to the meeting with Iranian government
representatives to be held at the end of January, the diplomats
said today on condition of anonymity because the negotiations
are continuing.  The euro tumbled, sending commodities lower, after Baroin
said  France ’s rating will be cut to AA+. The euro slipped as
much as 1.5 percent to $1.2624, the lowest level since Aug. 25,
2010. A weaker common currency and stronger dollar decrease the
appeal of raw materials to investors.  “This is not good news, we would have preferred to keep
it,” Baroin said on France 2 Television. “It’s a reduction of
one level, it’s the same level as the U.S. It’s not a
catastrophe.”  Credit Ratings  Italy’s credit rating was cut two levels, to BBB+ from A,
by S&P, said an EU official who declined to be identified
because the decision is not yet public.  Germany , Europe’s biggest economy, will retain its AAA
rating in the review of euro-area countries’ credit grades, a
European government official said.  The Institute of International Finance, the group
representing  Greece ’s bank creditors, said talks with the
government have “paused for reflection” after the discussions
failed to produce a “constructive consolidated response by all
parties.” The sovereign debt crisis began in Greece and then
moved to Ireland, Portugal,  Italy  and  Spain .  “Expectations that the French downgrade is finally coming
are a reminder that the European debt crisis is far from
resolution,” Kilduff said.  Oil gained as much as 1.1 percent earlier after Nigerian
labor unions said they will continue a strike that threatens oil
exports from Africa’s top producing country. The main oil
workers’ union, Pengassan, said it will meet tomorrow to decide
whether to proceed with plans to start shutting fields Jan. 15.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 658,039
contracts as of 5:04 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 774,439
yesterday, the highest since Dec. 13 and 29 percent above the
three-month average. Open interest was 1.38 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  