-- Olympus Audit Probe Hasn’t Found Problems So Far, Panel Says
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-01-13T07:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/olympus-audit-probe-hasn-t-found-problems-so-far-panel-says-1-.html
A committee formed by Ernst & Young
ShinNihon LLC said it hasn’t found any problems so far with the
auditor’s examination of accounts at  Olympus Corp. (7733) , the camera
maker that admitted to a $1.7 billion cover-up of losses.  The findings aren’t final as the review is continuing,
Nobuo Gohara, a committee member and lawyer, said today at a
press conference in  Tokyo . The panel’s release of its final
report, initially due by late February, may be delayed as police
are also investigating Olympus, Gohara said, without
elaborating.  Olympus restated more than five years of earnings on Dec.
14 after admitting to inflating fees to advisers for the $2.1
billion  acquisition  of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008 and overpaying
for three Japanese companies. ShinNihon, which signed off on
Olympus’s 2010 results, formed the committee last month to
verify an internal investigation that earlier found nothing
wrong in its audit of the company.  Tokyo-based Olympus sued 19 current and former officials
including former Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa over a $1.7 billion
accounting fraud, it said Jan. 10. The company, also the world’s
biggest endoscope maker, is seeking as much as 3.6 billion yen
($47 million) in compensation from them for causing 86 billion
yen in damages from the cover-up.  The camera maker will decide whether to sue its corporate
and accounting auditors by Jan. 17, the deadline for filing a
lawsuit, it said last month.  Share Plunge  Olympus plunged 59 percent last year as news of the cover-
up emerged, making the stock the the fifth-worst performer on
the Nikkei 225 Stock Average. The shares  fell  2.7 percent to
close at 1,236 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange today.  Former Chief Executive Officer  Michael Woodford  blew the
whistle on the inflated takeover costs after he was fired Oct.
14. His allegations caused the maker of Pen digital cameras to
reveal a 13-year scheme to conceal soured investments dating
back to the 1990s and raised concern among investors and
lawmakers over  Japan ’s corporate governance rules.  KPMG Azsa LLC, which signed off on Olympus’s 2009 results
after confronting the camera maker over accounting
irregularities, and ShinNihon, failed to conduct an adequate
handover, an Olympus investigation panel said in December.   The
ShinNihon panel found the handover between the auditors didn’t
break any rules, Gohara said last month.  Japan’s Financial Services Agency is looking into any role
the auditors may have played in the cover-up, according to
Minister  Shozaburo Jimi .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  