-- Orange Juice Rebounds on Renewed Concern U.S. Will Limit Imports
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-01-13T19:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/orange-juice-rebounds-on-renewed-concern-u-s-will-limit-imports.html
Orange-juice futures rebounded from
the biggest two-day slump since 2008 on renewed concern that a
U.S. government probe of imports from  Brazil  will tighten
supplies.  The  Food and Drug Administration  said it will detain all
imports that contain carbendazim, a fungicide that isn’t
approved for oranges in the U.S. Yesterday, the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture  trimmed its crop forecast for Florida, the
world’s largest grower after Brazil, by 2 percent. The estimate
didn’t include damage from frigid temperatures last week.  “The realization that FDA will test all imports is
probably driving” prices up,  Jack Scoville , a vice president at
Price Futures Group in  Chicago , said today in an e-mail. “The
damage to Florida, if any, is unknown.”  Futures prices jumped 9.2 percent in the past two weeks,
and on Jan. 10 reached the highest in almost five years. The
rally may boost costs for companies including  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the
Purchase, New York-based producer of Tropicana juices, and  Coca-
Cola Co. (KO) , which makes Minute Maid.  Orange juice for March delivery rallied 3.6 percent to
settle at $1.846 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York , after jumping as much as the exchange’s 20-cent limit, or
11 percent. The gain of 3.9 percent for the week was the fourth
straight advance.  “This testing could turn out to take a while, not just a
quick bump in the road,” Scoville said. “That is what has
people buying again.”  The U.S. is testing “imports as they come in,”  Siobhan DeLancey , an FDA spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mail. “We
have three preliminary test results that are negative for
carbendazim. Once those results are final, we’ll be allowing the
shipments to enter the country.”  Frigid Weather  Concern that the FDA probe and frigid weather in  Florida 
will limit supplies sent futures on Jan. 10 to $2.0775, the
highest since March 2007. Prices plunged 14 percent during the
previous two days, after the exchange raised the minimum cash
margin needed for speculators to post to take a futures
position, and as forecasters called for temperatures in Florida
to remain above freezing.  There are “no changes” to Florida’s weather in the next
few days, Kyle Tapley, a meteorologist at Gaithersburg,
Maryland-based MDA Information Systems, said today in an e-mail.
Temperatures are still expected “to remain above frost levels
in the citrus belt,” he said.  Coca Cola said Jan. 11 that it had brought the use of the
fungicide by some Brazilian orange growers to the FDA’s
attention. The Atlanta-based company said in a statement that
Brazilian  orange juice  is safe and it will take guidance from
the FDA in resolving the situation.  Traders “are waiting for more definite news from the FDA
to get some direction,” Jim Garasz, a principal at Transworld
Futures in Tampa, Florida, said today in a telephone interview.  “If we can hold this rally, we will be looking at the
resistance around $2, first,” Garasz said. “If we break above
that, we could then have a push into the next resistance around
$2.10.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  