-- More Stock-Market Volatility Coming This Year: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-01-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/more-stock-market-volatility-coming-this-year-chart-of-the-day.html
Stock investors shouldn’t get used
to the relative calm that markets are now showing, according to
 Andrew Garthwaite , a global equity strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG.  Volatility is likely to rise this year, Garthwaite wrote
yesterday in a report. He attributed the outlook to excessive
borrowing in developed economies, which ensures that investors
will be “abnormally sensitive” to shifts in economic growth
and government policy, he added.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the volatility of the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the performance of the Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or the VIX, since the
beginning of last year. The VIX indicates the level of concern
among investors about future share-price swings.  “Sentiment in the market has clearly changed over the past
three months,” wrote Garthwaite, who is based in  London . Both
volatility gauges erased almost all of their gains from last
year’s second-half stock slump. The reading for the S&P 500
dropped below 20 yesterday for the first time since Aug. 3.  Even so, developed-country debt is still $8 trillion too
high, the report said. Garthwaite came up with that estimate by
comparing the borrowing relative to gross domestic product with
a figure based on the debt-to-GDP ratio’s trend during the past
three decades.  The need to reduce this burden creates “a considerable
amount of tail risk,” or potential for unlikely stock-market
outcomes, the report said. He mentioned 11 possible surprises
for this year. One was a breakup of the euro region, which he
estimated would send the  S&P 500  falling to 800, or 38 percent
less than yesterday’s close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  