-- How Bill Daley Died a Death of a Thousand Cuts: Jonathan Alter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-01-13T00:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/how-bill-daley-died-death-of-a-thousand-cuts-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
The resignation of William M. Daley
as President Barack Obama’s White House chief of staff brings to
mind the words of David Wilhelm when he left his post as
chairman of the  Democratic National Committee  in 1994: “I’m
going back to Chicago where they stab you in the front.”  Obama was reportedly stunned that Daley quit after only a
year in the post, but he shouldn’t have been. The affable
Chicago banker had already experienced Washington’s classic
death of a thousand cuts.  Some background: The youngest and smartest son of the late
Mayor  Richard J. Daley  was never part of the Obama inner circle.
After I broke the  story  in late 2006 that Daley would offer an
early and important endorsement of the freshman Illinois
senator, a Chicago source informed me that Daley had no
particular love for Obama. He backed Obama over  Hillary Clinton 
in part to stay on the right side of Chicago’s blacks in
anticipation of a now-abandoned plan to run for governor of
 Illinois .  In the summer of 2007, when Obama trailed Clinton by more
than 20 points in most polls, Daley, by then co-chairman of the
Obama campaign, essentially gave up on his candidate, telling
friends that Obama had impressed everyone with his fundraising
and set himself up nicely for the future but wasn’t going to
make it in 2008. Obama loyalists, remembering that Daley had
stopped fighting for  Al Gore  in the 2000 election aftermath
against  George W. Bush  and Jim Baker when he was Gore’s campaign
chairman, took note. There was no serious effort to bring him
into the Obama administration in 2009.  Ambassador to Business  When  Rahm Emanuel  left as White House chief of staff in the
fall of 2010 to run for mayor of Chicago, he pushed the
president hard to hire Daley as his replacement. Emanuel argued
that his friend and fellow Chicagoan would help repair the White
House’s relationship with the business community (a task Emanuel
didn’t think  Valerie Jarrett  was handling well enough) and was
the best man for Job One -- getting Obama re-elected.  Before Obama finally settled on Daley, senior adviser  Pete Rouse  served as interim chief of staff for a few months. Rouse,
who has enjoyed Obama’s confidence since he served as his chief
of staff in the Senate, is unassuming, unambitious and beloved
within the White House. He was, and remains, the man to see on
all personnel matters, which meant Daley had little ability to
hire or fire. Even before Rouse’s duties were formally expanded
(and Daley’s curtailed) late last year, his close relationship
with the president and the White House staff was a source of
frustration to Daley.  It was hard for Daley to relish being in charge when the
president’s three closest aides -- Rouse, Jarrett and  David Plouffe  (Obama’s 2008 campaign manager) -- were close to free
agents.  Morale under Daley sunk, as the White House became less
freewheeling and more corporate and secretive. Two upper echelon
aides who had once chafed under Emanuel told me they were
nostalgic for him because at least he could make things happen
in the government.  All of this -- plus Daley’s genuine desire to spend more
time with his new wife -- could have been survived were it not
for unhappiness with the chief of staff on  Capitol Hill .  It had been more than a decade since Daley was in the
 Washington  scrum as President  Bill Clinton ’s commerce secretary,
and his skills were rusty. The failure to complete a “grand
bargain” on the deficit with Republicans wasn’t his fault, but
didn’t reflect well on him either. His good working relationship
with House Speaker  John Boehner  yielded nothing.  Democratic lawmakers, already annoyed at not getting more
face time with the president, whispered loudly that the Obama
White House was much worse than the Clinton White House at
taking care of their needs. They laid this at Daley’s feet.  A Fatal Interview  Soon articles appeared that reflected grumbling from
unnamed sources in Congress, some of them on the staff of the
Democratic leadership. But the most damaging story came from
Daley’s own mouth. I’d argue that the effective end of his
tenure came on Oct. 28, 2011, when Politico published an
 interview  with him by Roger Simon, a former  Chicago  Sun-Times
columnist who had known him for decades.  After telling Simon that the first three years of the Obama
presidency had been “ungodly” and “brutal,” he said something
that was simultaneously true and unforgivable within the
Democratic Party:  “On the domestic side, both Democrats and Republicans have
really made it very difficult for the president to be anything
like a chief executive.”  In Washington, careers can end over nothing more than a
sentence fragment. By saying “both Democrats and Republicans,”
Daley spread the blame for obstructionism, enraging
congressional Democrats, who in a couple of cases had to be
soothed by the president himself. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  was particularly angry. Jack Lew, the budget director, will
succeed Daley and has much better relations with Democrats on
the Hill and with the White House staff.  Still, Obama wasn’t lying when he said that he values the
counsel of Daley, who deserves some credit for helping him
survive the roughest year of his presidency so far. But Daley’s
tenure and retreat may best be remembered as the moment when
Washington truly displaced Chicago as the most brutal political
town in the country.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 