-- Perry Loses Bid for VA Ballot
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   B o n n i e   V .   W i n s t o n
-- 2012-01-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/perry-loses-bid-to-be-added-to-v-a-ballot.html
Texas Governor Rick Perry waited too
long to challenge the eligibility requirements for  Virginia ’s
primary ballot and he and three other Republican presidential
candidates won’t appear on it, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge John A. Gibney Jr. in Richmond
yesterday denied a challenge by the GOP candidates, who argued
Virginia’s primary rules requiring those seeking to have their
names placed on the ballot submit 10,000 signatures from valid
Virginia voters are improper and unconstitutional.  “In essence, they played the game, lost and then
complained that the rules were unfair,” Gibney said in court.  Virginia’s rule requiring petition circulators to be
eligible voters is probably unconstitutional, Gibney said.
Still, he told the candidates’ lawyers that they waited almost
six months from the day signatures could be collected to file a
lawsuit, a delay he called “unreasonable.” Adding the names to
the March 6 ballot now would jeopardize the state’s primary
process, the judge said.  “If they had brought suit in a timely manner, then the
plaintiffs may have been able to gather the required
signatures,” Gibney said. “As it stands now, we can only
speculate.”  Gibney said he expects his ruling to be appealed to the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in Richmond.  ‘Disenfranchises’ Voters  “We are disappointed with this result that disenfranchises
Virginia voters,” Joseph Nixon, a lawyer for the Perry
campaign, said in an e-mailed statement. “The judge confirmed
that the statute is unconstitutional, but did not remedy the
situation.”  He said Perry hasn’t decided whether to appeal.  Republican candidates  Rick Santorum ,  Newt Gingrich  and  Jon Huntsman , who joined the suit, were also barred from the primary
because of their failure to get enough signatures from qualified
Virginia voters. They, with Perry, argued that Virginia’s rule
requiring petition circulators to be eligible voters in the
state violates “freedoms of speech and association protected by
the First and Fourteenth Amendments” of the U.S. Constitution.  Former U.S. Senator Santorum of  Pennsylvania , asked about
the ruling while shaking hands with voters at a candidate forum
in Duncan, South Carolina, said he didn’t know whether he would
file an appeal.  ‘Life Goes On’  “Life goes on,” said Gingrich, also campaigning in
Duncan. He told reporters he would look to offset the primary in
Virginia with strong performances in other states. “I think
we’ll be fine,” he said.  The final outcome of the case in Virginia, where former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas are the only Republicans on the ballot, may have
little influence on the course of this year’s presidential
primary race. After winning Iowa and  New Hampshire , Romney is
ahead in public opinion surveys in  South Carolina , which holds
its primary Jan. 21, and in  Florida , where voters will go to the
polls Jan. 31.  Romney victories in both states may clear the field, except
for Paul, well before Virginia comes up on the presidential
primary calendar on March 6.  Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli, in an e-
mailed statement, said he was “pleased that the district court
is allowing Virginia’s orderly election to move forward.”  Absentee, Overseas  Cuccinelli argued in court papers that materials for the
primary needed to go to the printer immediately to meet legal
deadlines for getting ballots to absentee and overseas voters.  He noted that yesterday’s ruling was on the request for an
injunction and that the lawsuit will move forward.  Perry’s lawsuit, filed Dec. 27, sought a temporary order to
halt Virginia officials from printing the ballots, or to require
them to include his name on them.  Perry also argued that changes to ballot access made in May
weren’t cleared under the Voting Rights Act and challenged the
state’s interpretation of the signature rules.  During yesterday’s hearing, campaign advisers to the
candidates testified that Virginia’s ballot requirements are
burdensome and expensive.  Joe Allbaugh, a former George W. Bush administration
official who is now senior adviser to the Perry campaign, told
Gibney the campaign will spend about $91,000 to get on primary
ballots nationally. The failed effort in Virginia will account
for about $45,000 of that sum, he said.  Petition Signatures  Perry submitted “over 6,000 petition signatures” deemed
valid by state officials, according to a court filing by the
 Texas  governor.  While former House Speaker Gingrich submitted 11,050
signatures to the Virginia State Board of Elections, less than
10,000 were verified as registered voters, according to a filing
by the candidates.  Santorum submitted more than 8,000 signatures. Former Utah
Governor Huntsman didn’t file papers declaring his candidacy in
Virginia because he couldn’t meet the signature requirement,
according to the filing.  Donald Palmer, secretary of Virginia’s elections board,
testified yesterday that almost all 134 Virginia jurisdictions
already had printed the Republican primary ballots, which were
“at least enough to get through the first two weeks of absentee
voting.”  Primary Costs  Palmer said the total amount allocated for the primary
election in Virginia is $3 million. He said a change at this
point would cost possibly “several hundred thousand” dollars.  Virginia’s lawyer, E. Duncan Getchell Jr., questioned the
campaigns’ witnesses on when they had begun seeking to obtain
the required 10,000 signatures.  Under Virginia’s rules, those seeking to have their names
added to the primary ballot can begin seeking signatures on July
1.  Jerry Kilgore, a former Virginia Attorney General, told
Gibney that he became the Virginia chairman of the Perry
campaign in October. Rachel Robinson, ballot access coordinator
for the Gingrich campaign, testified that she didn’t start
managing the collection of signatures until November. Santorum’s
efforts didn’t start until December, according to his
coordinator, Mark Tate.  Judge ‘Shocked’  “I was shocked that nobody was working on these issues
until late,” Gibney said at one point during the hearing.  If Gibney’s ruling stands, Paul may have an opportunity in
Virginia to see the anti-Romney vote consolidate around his
candidacy, which would probably give him a share of the state’s
49 convention delegates.  Paul has vowed to remain in the race until the end as he
did in the 2008 primary. His campaign is unique in that he has a
base of libertarian supporters who have shown an ability to
raise money quickly and in large sums. After putting out a call
for contributions on Dec. 16, the Texas doctor collected $4
million in a day.  Perry, who came in fifth in  Iowa  and sixth in New
Hampshire, has said he will reassess his campaign after the
South Carolina contest.  An Insider Advantage poll released Jan. 11 showed Romney
ahead in South Carolina with 23 percent, Gingrich in second with
21 percent, Santorum at 14 percent, Paul at 20 percent, and
Perry with 5 percent support. Santorum, who came in second in
Iowa, fell to fifth in New Hampshire.  Gingrich yesterday opened an office in  Orlando , Florida and
intends to begin airing advertisements there after the South
Carolina primary, said Jose Mallea, the campaign’s Florida
director.  The case is Perry v. Judd, 3:11-cv-00856, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Bonnie V.  Winston in Richmond, Virginia, at 
 bvwinston@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  