-- Petrobras to Accelerate Oil Reserve Growth With New Platforms, CFO Says
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-01-13T11:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/petrobras-to-accelerate-reserve-growth-with-platforms-cfo-says.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the state-
controlled oil producer, will accelerate reserve growth over the
next four years as it deploys more production equipment in deep
waters of the Atlantic Ocean, the chief financial officer said.  Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based company is known,
needs equipment at discovery sites to meet requirements to
classify the oil as proven reserves, CFO Almir Barbassa said in
an interview. The company expects to receive 19 production
platforms by the end of 2015, he said.  “Each one of these platforms has a potential area it can
drain of close to 600 million barrels,” said Barbassa yesterday
in a telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “This oil will
turn into proven oil at the end of 2015.”  Petrobras is developing the largest oil finds in the
Americas since  Mexico  discovered Cantarell in 1976 and plans to
invest more than any other  oil company  to more than double
output by 2020. Petrobras borrowed $18 billion from bond markets
and banks last year to finance investments and plans to borrow a
similar amount this year, Barbassa said.  The company’s oil and natural-gas proven reserves have
climbed 10 percent over the past five years to 12.9 billion
barrels at the end of 2011, according to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s Standards.  Growth in reserves slowed to 1 percent last year from a 2.8
percent increase in 2010.  ‘Attractive’ Opportunity  With almost $30 billion in cash, Petrobras can wait for an
“attractive” opportunity to sell bonds abroad, Barbassa said.
The company plans to borrow $15 billion to $18 billion this year
through bond sales and bank loans to help finance $224.7 billion
in investments in the five years through 2015, he said.  “It’s a flexible target, depending on the appetite in the
market,” Barbassa said. “We could go for a year without doing
an operation.”  Petrobras hasn’t hired any banks yet to sell bonds this
year, he said. Last year Petrobras sold $6 billion in dollar
bonds and sold more bonds in euros and pounds. Any dollar bond
sales this year will be a “benchmark” size,  Barbassa (PETR4)  said,
without elaborating.  The company may offer bonds in the domestic market this
year after selling 405 million reais ($228 million) of debt that
matures in 12 to 17 years last month, Barbassa said.  Yields on Petrobras’s 5.75 percent bonds due in 2020 rose
four basis points to 4.85 percent yesterday. The yield has
gained nine basis points so far this year. Petrobras rose 0.7
percent in  Sao Paulo  to 23.08 reais yesterday.  Japanese Refinery Sale  The first asset Petrobras plans to sell as part of a $13.6
billion divestment and cost-cutting program is its Okinawa
refinery in  Japan , Barbassa said.  “We started with the refinery in Japan and we expect to
have various other announcements in the first half,” Barbassa
said.  Petrobras is considering selling oil exploration and
production assets in  Brazil  and abroad, and refining and power
and electricity assets, Barbassa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  