-- Philippine Peso, Bonds Gain on Interest-Rate Cut Speculation
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-01-13T08:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/philippine-peso-bonds-gain-on-interest-rate-cut-speculation.html
The Philippine peso and government
bonds completed weekly gains on speculation the central bank
will cut interest rates next week.  The currency advanced today by the most in more than a
month after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
his strategy for tackling  Europe ’s crisis is beginning to work.
Philippine central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said Jan. 9
that monetary policy will probably be eased this quarter as
inflation cools. The policy rate will be reviewed on Jan. 19,
with nine of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecasting a
25-basis point cut to 4.25 percent. Two expect no change.  “The central bank meeting is coming up and it will be a
surprise if they don’t cut,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at
Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “The rate-cut outlook is helping
fuel a rally in stocks and contributing to overall optimism.”  The peso gained 0.9 percent this week to 43.725 per dollar
as of the close in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It
strengthened 0.7 percent today, its biggest daily advance since
Dec. 1. The benchmark stock index  has risen 2.9 percent this week
and touched a record high today before closing lower.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept its  benchmark interest
rate  unchanged for a fifth meeting in December after two
increases earlier in the year. It raised the reserve-requirement
ratio for lenders twice last year to 21 percent. Consumer prices
rose 4.2 percent in December from a year earlier, the least in
11 months, official data show.  Growth (PGDYTY)  in the $200 billion economy may have exceeded 4
percent last year, Economic Planning Secretary Cayetano
Paderanga said today in Manila. The government will report the
data on Jan. 30.  The nation may achieve a higher  credit rating  in the next
two to three months after Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services
raised the outlook on the debt in December, Budget Secretary
Butch Abad told reporters today in Manila.  The yield on the 5.875 percent January 2018 peso bond fell
10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, this week to 4.65
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. The rate
dropped three basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  