-- Potash, CF Rise on Speculation U.S. Understates Drought Damage
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-01-13T22:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/potash-cf-rise-on-speculation-u-s-understates-drought-damage.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. 
was among fertilizer producers that rallied in New York on
speculation U.S. government forecasts understate the impact of
dry weather on  Argentina ’s corn crop.  Potash Corp., the world’s largest crop-nutrient producer by
market value, rose 3 percent to $44.74 at the close in New York.
 CF Industries Holdings Inc. (CF) , the largest U.S. maker of nitrogen
fertilizer, gained 3.8 percent to $172.55.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  yesterday cut its
estimate for the Argentine corn crop to 26 million tons from a
December forecast of 29 million tons, according to a government
report.  “There is further cuts to come in the USDA estimate of the
size of that crop, hence further export opportunities for U.S.
corn producers,” Don Carson, a New York-based analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group, said today in a telephone interview.
“People remain highly skeptical about the USDA grain
forecast.”  Argentina, the world’s second-largest exporter of corn,
will produce “significantly” less-than-expected supplies of
the grain a lack of rain than has damaged the crop, Rosario
Cereals Exchange said in a Spanish-language report on its
website.  Yesterday, the USDA reduced its Argentine soybean
production forecast to 50.5 million tons from 52 million tons,
according to the report.  Potash Corp., based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, has risen
8.4 percent this year. Deerfield, Illinois-based CF has gained
19 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in  New York  at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  