-- Gilts Rise on Reports S&P to Cut Europe Ratings; Pound Falls Versus Dollar
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-13T16:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/pound-heads-for-weekly-loss-against-the-euro-on-bets-europe-crisis-abating.html
Gilts rose, sending 10- and 30-year
yields toward record lows, as speculation  Standard & Poor’s  will
cut the credit ratings of some European nations spurred demand
for the perceived safety of AAA rated U.K. assets.  Ten-year  yields  dropped to a two-week low after Dow Jones
Newswires said the downgrades may happen as soon as today,
citing European Union sources. Gilts also gained after a U.K.
report showed producer prices unexpectedly declined. The pound
weakened to a 17-month low against the dollar as concern the
European debt crisis is worsening increased investor appetite
for the safety of the U.S. currency.  “Gilts are benefiting given the U.K.’s status of being in
the exclusive club of countries with AAA ratings and stable
outlooks from all the main rating agencies now the focus has
switched back to downgrades in  Europe ,” said  Sam Hill , a fixed-
income strategist at  RBC Capital Markets .  The  10-year  yield fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.97 percent at 4:14 p.m. London time after
declining to 1.93 percent on Dec. 30, the lowest since Bloomberg
began tracking the data in 1989. The 3.75 percent bond due
September gained 0.47, or 4.70 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,526)
face amount to 115.54.  The 30-year  yield  dropped six basis points to 3.01 percent,
approaching the record low 2.98 percent.  The downgrades may happen as soon as today, Dow Jones said.
 Germany ’s rating will not be cut, Reuters reported, citing a
senior euro-area source. Philippa Melaniphy, a spokeswoman at
S&P in  London , declined to comment when reached by phone.  Pound Drops  The pound fell 0.2 percent to $1.5296 after weakening to
$1.5235, the lowest since July 22, 2010. Sterling strengthened
0.8 percent to 82.89 pence per euro.  Gilts also advanced as signs inflation is slowing boosted
the appeal of the fixed payments from government debt.  U.K. producer prices dropped 0.2 percent in December from
the previous month, the statistics office said. Economists
forecast a 0.1 percent gain, according to a Bloomberg survey.
Annual price growth slowed to 4.8 percent, the least in a year.  The data suggests “pipeline pressures are easing,” said
 Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist in Edinburgh at RIA
Capital Markets Ltd., a broker for banks and investors. That may
be “a supportive factor for gilts,” he said.  The U.K. 10-year break-even rate, a gauge of inflation
expectations derived from the difference in yield between
regular and index-linked bonds,  fell  for a fifth day, dropping
two basis points to 2.68 percentage points.  Best Performer  Gilts returned 17 percent last year, the best performers
among 26 indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The U.K. securities
rallied as a deepening of the euro-region’s sovereign-debt
crisis stoked demand for the bonds as an alternative to euro-
denominated assets.  The  Bank of England  has been buying about 5.1 billion
pounds of gilts a week since October as part of its plan to
boost the economy. The Monetary Policy Committee kept its
benchmark  interest rate  at 0.5 percent and maintained its asset-
purchase target at 275 billion pounds at a meeting yesterday, as
forecast in Bloomberg News surveys of economists.  The pound has strengthened 1.5 percent in the past six
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track 10 developed-nation currencies. Only the dollar, the
yen and the Australian currency gained more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  