-- Prokhorov Has Signatures to Run for President Amid Criticism
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-01-13T14:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/prokhorov-has-signatures-to-run-for-president-amid-criticism-1-.html
Billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov said
he collected enough signatures in support of his bid to
challenge Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  for the presidency as
opponents criticized efforts to form a sham opposition.  “I am ready to unite all democratic forces,” Prokhorov,
46, Russia’s third-richest man with a fortune Forbes magazine
puts at $18 billion, said according to state news service RIA
Novosti. “To unite, we must do so around a concrete program.”  Ousted Russian Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin , a long-time
associate of Putin who criticized fraud in parliamentary
elections last month, said today he’s in talks on setting up a
pro-democracy party. Opposition leaders, who have organized a
series of protests against alleged ballot-rigging in the Dec. 4
vote, accuse Kudrin and Prokhorov of seeking to lend legitimacy
to Putin’s re-election in March presidential polls by giving the
appearance of pluralism.  If “Kudrin and his friends” want to join the “real
opposition, we are ready to discuss this with them,”  Mikhail Kasyanov , a former prime minister under Putin who now opposes
the government, said today on his website. He offered them to
join his Parnas party, which was barred from contesting the
December elections.  Biggest Protest  Putin, 59, has faced the biggest protests since he came to
power more than a decade ago after last month’s vote, in which
his ruling party saw its two-thirds majority cut to just over
half. The premier said in September he wants to return to the
Kremlin, pushing aside his successor, President  Dmitry Medvedev ,
who took over in 2008 after Putin served the maximum two
consecutive terms allowed by the constitution.  Kudrin, who was ousted in September after clashing with
Medvedev over plans to increase military spending, attended a
protest rally in Moscow on Dec. 24 and called for new
parliamentary polls within 18 months and the dismissal of the
country’s election chief.  “Kudrin is an absolutely staunch supporter of Putin,”
Garry Kasparov, a chess grandmaster and co-leader of the
Solidarity opposition group, said in an interview last month.
“The compromise he offered was very simple: ‘We may consider
new parliamentary elections, but you have to accept Putin’s
return.’ That is absolutely unacceptable.”  Prokhorov by today had collected the 2 million signatures
needed to run as an independent in the March election,
spokeswoman Olga Stukalova said. He has until Jan. 18 to submit
them to the Central Electoral Commission.  New Elections  The New Jersey Nets basketball team owner is running on a
platform that includes holding new parliamentary elections in
December. Prokhorov has said he may form a party if he performs
well in March’s vote and aims to be an “integrator” who can
unite  Russia ’s liberal opposition.  Kudrin said in an interview published Dec. 12 that he
supports the creation of a new right-of-center party, a topic he
has discussed with Prokhorov.  Putin’s opponents including former Deputy Prime Minister
 Boris Nemtsov  held talks with Kudrin after he offered to mediate
with the authorities, Nemtsov said in a phone interview today.
“We didn’t discuss setting up a party,” he said. “If Kudrin
wants to be a mediator, he needs to remain neutral.”  Calls to Quit  Putin yesterday unveiled his draft campaign manifesto on
his campaign website,  www.putin2012.ru , prompting postings from
Russians calling on him to abandon his presidential bid after 12
years in power.  “These are all vague promises” made by the premier,
billionaire  Alexander Lebedev , a government critic who joined
Putin’s All-Russia People’s Front coalition, said in a phone
interview today. “Why didn’t they manage it over the past 11
years?”  Putin would get 48 percent in a presidential election,
compared with 10 percent for Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov 
and 9 percent for  Vladimir Zhirinovsky  of the nationalist
Liberal Democrats, according to an opinion poll by the All-
Russian Center for the Study of  Public Opinion . Prokhorov was
supported by 3 percent of respondents. Putin needs more than 50
percent of votes to win on the first round.  The poll of 1,600 Russians was conducted Jan. 7-8, the
state-run organization, known as VTsIOM, said in an e-mailed
statement today. The margin of error was 3.4 percentage points.  Putin’s United Russia party got no more than 30 percent on
Dec. 4, compared with the official result of 49.3 percent,
Zyuganov said Jan. 11. A first-round victory for Putin in March
presidential elections is impossible, “even with major fraud,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  