-- Putin Praises Journalist Courage, Vows Faster Probe Into Assault
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-01-13T14:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/putin-praises-journalist-courage-vows-faster-probe-into-assault.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , whose country’s press freedoms are ranked below Zimbabwe
and  Iraq , praised the “courage” of journalists at an award
ceremony that honored their professional holiday.  The premier, who is running for the presidency next year,
pledged to speed up an investigation into the near-fatal beating
of Mikhail Beketov, a journalist who received a state award
today and campaigned against government plans to build a highway
to  St. Petersburg  through the Khimki forest near Moscow.  Putin, 59, embraced Beketov, a recipient of one of 10
government awards for reporters, after the ceremony in central
Moscow and said he will instruct investigative committee chief
Alexander Bastrykin to expedite a probe into the 2008 assault.  The U.S. and  Europe  have criticized Russia for rolling back
press freedoms during Putin’s 2000-2008 tenure as president,
when he worked to centralize power and increase state ownership
of mass media and the country’s biggest companies. Russia was
ranked 140th among 178 countries in a 2010 Press Freedom  Index 
by Reporters Without Borders, a monitoring group based in Paris.  Beketov, editor of a newspaper in the Moscow suburb of
Khimki, had a leg amputated and lost his ability to speak as a
result of the assault, which also left him confined to a
wheelchair. Beketov’s lawyer complained to Putin that an
investigation is proceeding too slowly.  Assaults, Murders  The attack on Beketov was one of many assaults and murders
of journalists in  Russia  in recent years, most of which remain
unsolved. The 2004 murder of Paul Klebnikov, the U.S. editor of
Forbes Inc.’s Russian edition, and the 2006 killing of
opposition journalist  Anna Politkovskaya  were among the highest-
profile cases.  Khadzhimurad Kamalov, editor of a newspaper critical of the
authorities in the southern Russian region of Dagestan, was shot
dead last month.  Beketov’s car was set on fire six months before the attack
on Nov. 13, 2008, after which he accused local officials of
trying to intimidate him. A Putin-backed plan to build a toll
road between Russia’s two biggest cities via a forest has been
under fire from environmental activists who say the project will
damage the Khimki forest.  “I was told this situation allegedly had something to do
with the Khimki forest?” Putin asked Beketov today. His
campaign against corruption hurt the interests of many people in
Khimki, Stalina Gurevich, Beketov’s lawyer, said in an
interview.  A 1 million-ruble ($32,000) state award will help Beketov’s
recovery, said Yelena Kostyuchenko, a member of a fundraising
campaign in his support.  Other reporters honored today include Vladimir Gurbolikov,
who is a journalist at Foma, an independent Christian Orthodox
magazine, and television critic Irina Petrovskaya.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  