-- Trade Deficit in U.S. Probably Widened on Oil Imports
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-01-13T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/trade-deficit-in-u-s-probably-widened-on-petroleum-imports.html
The  trade deficit  in the U.S.
probably widened in November for the first time in five months
as oil imports rose, economists said before a report today.  The shortfall grew to $45 billion from $43.5 billion in
October, the smallest of the year, according to the median of 75
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Consumer sentiment climbed
in January to a seven-month high, other figures may show.  Concern that household spending will cool early this year
after picking up in the last three months of 2011 means that the
gain in imports was probably tempered by a reduction in orders
to overseas manufacturers. At the same time, growth in  emerging
markets  may bolster exports, overcoming a slowdown in demand
from  Europe  as the region’s debt crisis deepened.  “Imports outpacing exports just ever so much will create a
marginal rise in the trade deficit,” said  Omair Sharif , an
economist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“Consumer goods imports remained fairly weak. Exports are still
holding up fairly well despite the ongoing crisis in the  euro
zone , and that’s a pretty encouraging sign.”  The Commerce Department will release the trade figures at
8:30 a.m. in Washington.  Estimates (USTBTOT)  in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from deficits of $41.8 billion to $47.6 billion.  The Thomson Reuters-University of Michigan preliminary
index of  consumer sentiment  in January increased to 71.5 from
69.9 at the end of December, according to the median forecast in
the Bloomberg survey before the report at 9:55 a.m. The measure
may have been boosted by a pickup in job and wage growth at the
end of 2011.  Oil Imports  The value of imported petroleum purchases, which fell to an
eight-month low in October, may have rebounded a month later.
The cost of the fuel rose 3.6 percent in November from the prior
month and was up 33 percent from a year earlier, the Labor
Department said Dec. 14.  A slower pace of stockpiling among U.S. companies may have
limited America’s import bill.  Business inventories  rose 0.3 in
November from a month earlier, compared with a 0.8 percent rise
in October, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday. Given
tepid wage gains, retailers like American Eagle Outfitters Inc.
and Target Corp. offered discounts to attract more buyers in
November and December.  Demand for U.S.-made goods in emerging countries may help
provide a buffer against any slowdown in Europe’s economy
stemming from the debt crisis. Exports to South and Central
America reached records in October, and the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s barometer of factory exports  signaled  expansion in
November after stalling the prior month.  Emerging Markets  “Where we’re growing, we’re redeploying from more mature
economies into emerging markets and we see good growth there
across all our markets,  Middle East ,  China , parts of  Asia ,
 India ,  Latin America ,” Lisa McDermott, chief financial officer
at  Pall Corp. (PLL) , said at a Jan. 11 investor conference. The  Port
Washington , New York-based maker of water purification systems
reported 27 percent revenue growth at its Asian industrial
division in the quarter ended Oct. 31 from a year earlier.  Shipments overseas probably supported economic growth at
the end of 2011.  “There is going to a pretty big narrowing in the real
 trade balance  for the fourth quarter, and that’s going to
contribute a fairly hefty amount to growth,” RBS’s Sharif said.  The  dollar’s decline  through most of 2011 may have helped
boost demand for American-made equipment. From the end of 2010
through a low on July 26, the dollar fell 5 percent against the
currencies of U.S. major trade partners tracked by the  Federal
Reserve . The drop makes American goods cheaper abroad.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  