-- Rand Falls Most in Month as Fitch Lowers South Africa Outlook to Negative
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-01-13T15:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/rand-rises-to-to-one-month-high-as-europe-optimism-buoys-risk-asset-demand.html
The rand declined against the
dollar, heading for its biggest fall in a month, after  Fitch
Ratings  reduced its outlook on South Africa’s BBB+ credit rating
to negative from stable.  The currency fell as much as 1.5 percent, the most since
Dec. 14 on a closing basis, and traded 1.3 percent lower at
8.1549 per dollar by 4:43 p.m. in Johannesburg. Earlier the rand
traded 0.3 percent stronger.  The negative outlook “reflects the limited progress on
several long-standing structural issues” that have affected
South Africa’s economy, Fitch said in a statement. The ratings
company cited a failure to create enough jobs for the  labor
force  and the subsequent need to redistribute public finances.  “It was a surprise; changing the outlook is not great news
so lots of stop losses are being triggered and there are
potentially more losses ahead,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief
dealer at Johannesburg-based Bidvest Bank Ltd., which runs  South
Africa ’s largest chain of moneychangers, said by phone.  Earlier, Dow Jones Newswires reported several European
nations may face “imminent” downgrades to their credit
ratings. The downgrades may happen as soon as today, according
to the report.  “Rumors that S&P might downgrade more countries in  Europe 
is not helping the euro,” Vleeschauwer said. ‘If these rumors
are true, we are headed for even higher levels and 8.25 rand to
the dollar is on the cards.”  The euro, the currency of South Africa’s biggest regional
trading partner, fell 1.1 percent versus the dollar to 1.2693,
its biggest decline in more than a week. The rand retreated 0.6
percent to 10.3919 per euro.  South Africa’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 declined for the
first time in four days, driving the yield up 4.6 basis points,
or 0.046 percentage point, to 6.785 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  