-- RBS Capitulation Sets Blueprint as European Bankers Confront Fee Drought
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-01-13T10:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/rbs-capitulation-sets-blueprint-as-european-bankers-confront-fee-drought.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s
decision to cut its European investment bank by more than a
quarter may kick-start a wider shake-up among its rivals in the
region as a fee drought and greater regulation force middle-
ranking firms to shrink their operations.  RBS, the U.K.’s largest government-owned bank, said
yesterday it will sell or close its equities, mergers advisory
and equity capital markets businesses, eliminating 3,500 jobs.
UniCredit SpA, which in November shut part of its equities unit,
Nomura Holdings Inc. and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are also pulling back.  Banks running securities arms that are laggards in their
industries may follow RBS in shuttering units because a decline
in trading and a jump in the cost of operating under incoming
regulation is rendering some businesses not viable, say
analysts. Competition among dozens of lenders in Europe for
services such as underwriting initial public offerings and
advising on mergers and acquisitions contributed to record low
fees, exacerbating the pressure on returns for firms that are
relying on the region to drive growth.  “Middle-ranking banks are being squeezed as volumes have
collapsed,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca
SpA in  London . “The banks that are neither betwixt nor between
can’t afford the cost base they’re running.”  Fees Decline  Europe ’s  investment banking  fee pool, which comprises
payments to banks for M&A advice, loans and underwriting debt
and equity sales, posted the worst quarter since 2004 in the
three months to December, according to New York-based research
firm Freeman & Co.  Investment banking fees in Europe dropped to $4.2 billion
in the fourth quarter of 2011 from $4.7 billion in the previous
quarter and $7.2 billion in the second quarter. Fees hit a
record $11.1 billion in the second quarter of 2007, the data
show.  Competition has driven the average fee for an IPO in Europe
to a record low of 1.87 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That is down from 2.5 percent in 2008 and 2.2 percent
in 2007, a record year for IPOs.  Earnings in the 25 banks in  Bloomberg’s European bank index 
are forecast to fall 40 percent from 2010 on average, driven by
profit warnings among the U.K. banks, UBS and Erste Group Bank
AG, according to a survey of analysts by Bloomberg.  Profit Declines  Profit at RBS’s investment bank fell 85 percent in the
third quarter to 80 million pounds ($123 million), from 549
million pounds in the same period a year earlier.  Nomura (8604)  posted
a 46.1 billion yen ($600 million) loss for the three months
ended Sept. 30, the first since the quarter ended March 2009,
driven by declines in trading and investment banking income.
Pretax losses from overseas operations swelled to 52.4 billion
yen, the most in at least six quarters.  “Low returns are an industry issue, although pressures are
greatest for businesses that lack scale and have weaker market
positions,” Raul Sinha, an analyst for JPMorgan Cazenove in
London, said in a note to clients. “In addition, a structurally
negative increase in fixed costs for the sector has removed a
natural offset to revenue volatility.”  RBS is reversing a decade of expansion, closing units and
cutting employees at the securities unit, led by John Hourican,
by 29 percent to 13,500 by 2015. The Edinburgh-based bank will
focus on fixed income, foreign exchange and transaction banking.  RBS Shares Rise  “The tough economic outlook and regulatory changes will
impede our progress -- as it will for all banks,” RBS Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Hester , 51, said in a memorandum
circulated to employees yesterday. “I expect other banks to
follow our lead in their own differing ways.”  Shares in RBS  rose  6.6 percent to 24.5 pence at 10:40 a.m.
in London, giving it a market value of 27 billion pounds. They
have risen 22 percent this week.  RBS’s move is similar to Barclays Plc’s decision in 1997 to
sell its Barclays de Zoete Wedd’s equities and advisory business
for about 100 million pounds to focus on fixed income and
foreign exchange, said Mediobanca’s Wheeler. The retained
division was renamed  Barclays Capital. (BARC)   “Both of them ended up with sub-scale equities
businesses,” Wheeler said. “If you look at the track record
for BZW, at a rather better time in the market, they had to give
it away.”  UBS, Societe Generale  The resignation of two former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
executives from Nomura this week may allow  Japan ’s biggest
brokerage to revamp the business, which has stumbled since it
bought assets of the failed U.S. firm in 2008. The firm plans
$1.2 billion in cost cuts.  Last year securities firms globally culled more than
200,000 positions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Among them, UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said in November it
will reduce staff at its securities unit by 2,000, or 11
percent, as it scales back in investment banking and focuses on
 wealth management .  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  France ’s second-largest bank, said it
may eliminate 1,580 jobs in corporate and investment banking.
UniCredit,  Italy ’s biggest lender, cut 130 jobs as it exited
sales, trading and research for western European equities.
UniCredit’s investment bank will tap Kepler Capital Markets SA,
a French securities firm, to provide some research.  In Europe, 160 lenders underwrote stock sales last year, a
$90.6 billion market, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In the
U.S., less than half the number of firms, 72, managed $159
billion of stock offerings, the data show.  Nomura, Barclays  Notwithstanding the competition, the top 10 underwriters in
Europe controlled 71 percent of the market. RBS, which is
focused on Europe and the U.S., ranked 26th while the top nine
underwriters, led by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Deutsche Bank
AG, (DBK)  run global businesses.  Banks expanded in equities trading over the last decade in
Europe, lured by the stable revenue provided by buying and
selling securities for customers. The credit crisis prompted
firms such as Nomura and Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest bank
by assets, to exploit the collapse of rivals to expand their
equities operations and seize market share. Meanwhile, brokers
that dominated the industry sought to maintain their leads and
build on their positions.  Mergers Activity  M&A activity hasn’t recovered from the banking crisis of
2008 as companies opt to preserve cash rather than spend on
acquisitions. The total value of M&A deals last year was $2.3
trillion, 44 percent lower than in 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It is expensive and difficult to reverse these decisions
so banks have put them off as long as possible,” said  Matthew Clark , a bank analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. in London.
“We have had two years of depressed investment bank earnings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  