-- Treasuries Rally as S&P Downgrade of French Rating Spurs Demand for Refuge
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-01-13T22:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/treasuries-advance-on-global-growth-concern-extend-weekly-gain.html
Treasuries rose, pushing yields to
the lowest levels this year, as  France  was stripped of its top
 credit rating  by  Standard & Poor’s , boosting demand for the
safety of U.S. government debt.  Yields on 10- and 30-year securities fell after a
government auction yesterday of $13 billion of the long bonds
attracted lower-than-average demand. A financial model created
by economists at the  Federal Reserve  that includes expectations
for  interest rates , growth and inflation indicates 10-year notes
are the most overvalued on record.  “Europe continues to take center stage in terms of price
action in the financial markets,” Gary Pollack, head of fixed-
income trading  in New York at Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth
Management unit, which manages $12 billion in bonds. “Europe
still faces a huge hurdle in fixing itself, refinancing its
debt, and we don’t know what degree of recession they will be in
-- all of which is supportive of Treasuries.”  Yields on 10-year notes fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.87 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time. They
touched 1.83 percent, the lowest level since Dec. 20, and have
fallen nine basis points this week, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent securities maturing in November
2021 gained 16/32, or $5 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 6/32.  Yields on 30-year bonds fell six basis points to 2.91
percent after touching 2.88 percent, the lowest level since Dec.
30. They dropped 11 basis points this week.  Premium Model  The so-called term premium model created by economists at
the Fed touched a record negative 0.7 percent, compared with the
average of positive 0.60 percent the past decade. The previous
record was negative 0.67 percent reached Sept. 22. A negative
reading indicates investors are willing to accept yields below
what’s considered fair value.  Two-thirds of respondents surveyed by Citigroup were
neutral on Treasuries with a small bullish bias, Neela Gollapudi, a strategist at Citigroup Global Markets in New York,
wrote in an e-mailed note today. Respondents expect  U.S.
government debt  to rally further after the Fed meeting on Jan.
25.  France and  Austria  were cut one level to AA+ from AAA and
face the risk of further reductions, S&P said in  Frankfurt 
today. While Finland, the Netherlands and Luxembourg
kept their AAA ratings, they were put on negative watch. Spain
and  Italy  were also downgraded.  Greek Talks  Greece ’s creditor banks broke off talks after failing to
agree with the government about how much money investors will
lose by swapping their bonds, increasing the risk of the euro-
area’s first sovereign default.  The Fed bought $4.646 billion of notes due from February
2020 to November 2021 today, according to the New York branch’s
 website . The purchases are part of the central bank’s program to
replace $400 billion of shorter-maturity Treasuries in its
holdings with longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs.  “The Fed is buying, which pressures yields even lower,”
said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of
government- and agency-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a
fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional investors.
“It’s a range-bound market, and in this atmosphere that means
you buy dips in prices, given the headwinds.”  The euro dropped, erasing weekly gains versus the dollar
and yen, sliding 1.1 percent to $1.2675, erasing a weekly gain.  “There is still significant uncertainty about the future
direction of  Europe ,” said Milstein. “It weighs on all
markets.”  Record German Yields  German 30-year  government bonds  rose, pushing the yield
down to a euro-era record 2.33 percent after the speculation
about downgrades was reported.  Germany ’s five-year note yield
also reached a record at 0.733 percent.  Treasury  30-year  bonds fell yesterday as the government’s
sale of $13 billion of the securities met lower-than-average
demand after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
his strategy of injecting cash into the financial system is
beginning to facilitate trading in seized-up credit markets.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.6
yesterday, versus an average of 2.7 for the previous 10 sales.  The 30-year sale followed record-setting auctions the prior
two days. A 10-year auction Jan. 11 set a lowest-ever yield, and
a three-year sale Jan. 10 drew a record high bid-to-cover ratio.  ‘Juice Left’  The U.S. 30-year bond “still has some juice left” and
prices will rise 10 percent this year, according to Gary Shilling, the economist who correctly predicted a decline in
Treasury yields in 2011.  The 30-year will “beat any other long investment” and
will end the year with a yield of 2.5 percent, Shilling said
today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene .  Inflation concern has fallen according to a measure of
traders’ expectations that the Fed uses to help determine
monetary policy. The so-called five-year, five-year forward
break-even rate, which projects what the pace of consumer-price
increases will be for the five-year period starting in 2016,
fell to 2.51 percent, down from the 2.75 percent of the past 12
months.  A report on Jan. 19 is expected to show the U.S. consumer-
price index rose 0.1 percent in December, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  Ten-year  break-even  rates, the difference between yields on
10-year inflation-indexed bonds and nominal Treasuries of the
same maturity, touched 2.00 percentage points today, the lowest
since Jan. 4. The rate reached a 2011 high of 2.67 percent on
April 11 and a low for the year of 1.67 percent on Sept. 23. The
break-even rate represents traders’ expectations for the rate of
inflation during the life of the bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  