-- Refiners, Union Leaders to Begin Contract Negotiations Next Week
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-01-13T13:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/refiners-union-leaders-to-begin-contract-negotiations-next-week.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and leaders of
the union representing workers at 69 U.S. oil refineries will
begin negotiating a new three-year labor contract Jan. 17 to
avoid a work stoppage that could disrupt plant operations.  The current contract between oil refiners and 30,000
members of the United Steel Workers expires Jan. 31. The last
contract negotiations in January 2009 were settled after 12 days
of talks that stalled as the union tried and failed to win
safety improvements.  The union will make a similar demand at next week’s talks,
according to Gary Beevers, a USW vice president and the union’s
lead negotiator. The union hasn’t struck since 1980, when a work
stoppage lasted three months. A strike would affect almost two-
thirds of U.S. refining capacity, according to the USW.  “The most important objective is to get enforceable health
and safety language into the contract,” Lynne Baker, a
spokeswoman for the union in Nashville,  Tennessee , said
yesterday in an interview. “Our proposal will help the industry
do a better job.”  Shell, negotiating on behalf of the companies, and union
leaders, including Beevers, will meet in Austin,  Texas , to
hammer out terms. Any deal is subject to approval by refiners
and pipeline operators before becoming the national pattern they
use in negotiating local union contracts.  “Shell is optimistic that a mutually satisfactory
agreement can be negotiated with the USW,” Kayla Macke, a
spokeswoman for Shell, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Previous Agreement  In 2009, the union accepted higher wages while relenting on
new safety provisions. The three-year labor agreement included 3
percent annual raises and a $2,500 bonus for workers.  “I think the union will be able to achieve some increase
in wages because the  oil companies  have been making money
although they will make the argument that many of the refineries
have been losing money,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow
Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Contracts between the companies, including  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , and the local USW
members must incorporate the terms of the national agreement,
Baker said.  The majority of local contracts expire Jan. 31 and most of
the rest later in the winter and spring.  Valero Energy Corp. has 13 U.S. refineries, of which five
have union representation, Bill Day, a spokesman in  San Antonio ,
said. Four of those five have contracts that expire between the
end of January and April 23, he said. He declined to comment on
negotiations, saying Valero had a “gentlemen’s agreement” with
the union to not comment publicly on the talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  