-- Roche Faces First Trial of Claims Over Raptiva Infections
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 2012-01-13T19:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/roche-faces-first-trial-of-claims-over-raptiva-psoriasis-drug-infections.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Genentech Inc. is
facing the first trial of patients’ claims that its withdrawn
Raptiva psoriasis drug spawned fatal infections in some users.  Officials of  Genentech , a unit of Basel, Switzerland-based
drugmaker Roche, are readying for a Jan. 30 jury trial in state
court in California over allegations that Raptiva caused Stephen
Johnson’s death. The 46-year-old  Louisiana  businessman took the
drug to treat a skin condition. Genentech withdrew the
medication from the market almost three years ago after it was
linked to fatal brain infections.  “Psoriasis isn’t life-threatening and his wasn’t even that
horrible,”  Mark Lanier , a lawyer for Johnson’s family, said in
an interview. “This drug was never about the patients. This
drug was about the money.”  Genentech , based in South San Francisco, California, began
withdrawing Raptiva from U.S. and European markets in April 2009
after three psoriasis patients were diagnosed with  progressive
multifocal leukoencephalopathy , or PML, a rare, incurable brain
infection. The month before the withdrawal, Roche completed a
$46.8 billion buyout of the biotech company.  Nadine O’Campo, a Genentech spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the upcoming Raptiva trial. “Given this litigation
is ongoing, we are not commenting,” she said in an e-mailed
statement.  Psoriasis is a disease that leaves sufferers dealing with
red, itchy skin lesions, lawyers for Johnson’s family said in
court filings. Johnson had taken the drug for almost five years
before his death in January 2009, the filings show.  Damages Sought  Genentech officials estimated in 2009 about 2,000 U.S.
patients were taking the drug when the company began pulling it
from shelves. The medication, which generated $108 million in
sales in 2008, had been used by an estimated 46,000 patients
worldwide. The psoriasis treatment was approved for sale by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2003.  Johnson’s case is the first of about 100 Raptiva suits that
have been consolidated before Judge  Steven Brick  in state court
in Oakland,  California . Lanier said there are other cases in
federal and state courts in Texas and  Massachusetts .  The family is seeking $15 million in compensatory damages
over Johnson’s death along with “several hundred million
dollars” in punitive damages, Lanier said.  Weakened Immune System  Johnson’s wife contends the businessman, who owned a
medical-supply store in a suburb of  New Orleans , was healthy
when he started taking Raptiva to treat his psoriasis and the
drug weakened his immune system to the point that he developed a
fatal infection.  Doctors at an emergency room in Kenner, Louisiana, noted
that Johnson’s death was likely caused by “overwhelming sepsis
complicated by the fact that patient was relatively
immunosuppressed from his Raptiva,” according to a Jan. 5 court
filing.  Lanier and other lawyers for former Raptiva patients
contend in the cases that Genentech officials downplayed the
medication’s health risks and failed to alert regulators about a
patient’s death in 2004 from the same kind of infection that
claimed Johnson’s life five years later.  To boost the drug’s prospects, Genentech officials hired an
FDA regulator who was responsible for with monitoring Raptiva’s
development and discussed “paying the official up to $30,000 to
buyout out his contract,”  Susanne Scovern , another lawyer
representing Johnson’s family, said in a court filing.  The former FDA official, Dr.  William Schwieterman (CHTP) , later
left Genentech and now serves as a consultant to biotech and
pharmaceutical makers, Scovern said in an interview.  The biotech company also failed to disclose an internal
2007 analysis that found Raptiva users were five times as likely
to get types of pneumonia infections as the general population,
Scovern said in the filing.  The case is Johnson v. Genentech Inc., RG 10-494957,
California Superior Court, Alameda County (Oakland).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  