-- Romney Debates Romney About Health-Care Reform: Michael Kinsley
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-01-13T00:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/romney-debates-romney-on-health-care-reform-commentary-by-michael-kinsley.html
OK, let’s go through this one more
time. In 2006,  Mitt Romney , as governor of Massachusetts, guided
to passage, signed with a flourish and implemented with fanfare
a  health-care reform law  for his state.  It was intended to achieve universal health coverage -- a
long-standing liberal goal that was not even on the Democrats’
national agenda, let alone the Republicans’, at the time. Of the
available models, Romney chose one developed in part by the
conservative Heritage Foundation. Its  central provision  was an
“individual mandate,” requiring everyone to carry health
insurance (and subsidizing those who couldn’t afford it).  Cut to  Washington , 2010. President  Barack Obama  also chose
the individual mandate as his model for health-care reform. As
Heritage had argued, it is hard to imagine any other workable
alternative to the dreaded “single-payer” (that is, a truly
nationalized health-care system, as in Britain). Obama’s people
consulted with Romney’s in formulating their plan, which passed
Congress on a  close party-line vote  and  immediately  became an
object of vilification for Republicans, who vowed to replace it.
As I said, before they had “Obamacare” to attack, Republicans
had shown no interest at all in addressing the problem of tens
of millions of Americans without health insurance.  Different But Not  Romney, running for president again after losing in the
Republican primaries in 2008, joined in the attack. He promised
not just to work for Obamacare’s repeal, but also to defund it
and allow all 50 states to opt out from his  first day in office .
But isn’t Obamacare almost exactly like the plan Romney had
implemented in  Massachusetts ? Oh, no, no, no: The two plans are
very different. How so? Well, the Massachusetts plan is a state
plan, whereas Obamacare is a federal plan. Furthermore,  two out
of three  Massachusetts residents approve of their plan,
according to polls. What’s more, Romney says, if they don’t like
it, they can change it. That’s what’s so wonderful about
federalism.  This is about as far as the argument has gotten, and Romney
may well get away with stopping here now that he’s almost sure
to get his party’s nomination for president. It will be hard for
Obama to make too much of an issue of the resemblance of
Romney’s plan to his own since (unlike Romney, apparently) he
still approves of his own plan.  But Romney shouldn’t be allowed to get away with stopping
here. This tale makes no sense whatsoever. Here are some
remaining questions Romney needs to answer:  Why would he have imposed the individual mandate on the
people of Massachusetts if it’s such a terrible, terrible idea?
Is he himself one of the two out of three people in his state
who still supports this terrible idea, or has he changed his
mind? What is it about the people of Massachusetts that makes a
health-care arrangement suitable for them when it is so
unsuitable for all other Americans? Romney says that it
“ wouldn’t be honest ” for him to say now that the Massachusetts
plan was “a boneheaded idea.” Does this mean he still thinks it
is a good plan? Individual mandate and all? How can that be, if
Obamacare, by contrast, is so awful that, if elected, he will
rush from his swearing-in straight to the Oval Office in order
to kill it?  Romney has said, correctly, that Obamacare doesn’t
adequately deal with the issue of controlling costs. He says
that, as president, he will do that because it is a national
problem. How does he decide what is a national problem, on which
the president must act, and what is a state problem, to which
there might be 50 appropriate solutions? What other aspects of
health care are national and therefore exempt from his deep
enthusiasm for federalism? For that matter, what are other
issues -- inside and outside of health care -- which he, as
president, will ignore in order to let each state find its own
solution?  One Romney Idea  Romney’s one concrete suggestion for health-care reform is
repealing the law that forbids insurance companies from selling
insurance across state lines. This would create something that
doesn’t now exist -- a national insurance market -- and
dramatically increase competition, thus helping to control
costs. It’s a good idea, but, of course, it is exactly the
opposite of what he claims to believe is needed in general:
Outside competition would make it nearly impossible for states
to regulate health insurance, leaving that power and obligation
to the federal government. How does Romney resolve this apparent
contradiction?  That is enough, for the moment. It’s obvious -- isn’t it? -
- that Romney is just blowing smoke. The real story is clear: He
wanted to achieve something important and good for the people of
his state, namely universal health care. But he chose the wrong
horse -- who could have guessed that an idea from the  Heritage
Foundation  would become  “liberal” anathema  in the Republican
primaries?  It’s annoying, but it’s more than that: It’s disqualifying.
To talk such nonsense and count on the hubbub of the campaign to
clothe its naked contempt for the voters is an insult to all of
us.  Romney radiates this insult. He shines with it. This is
what people mean when they talk about how smooth he is, about
the perfection of his hair. He will do or say anything to be
president. But his ruthlessness is not of the bitter, Nixon
sort. It’s the bland impatience of entitlement. It says, “I’m
supposed to be elected president. Why are people bothering me
with these questions?”  George W. Bush  had this too, but his was
at least mitigated by an apparent sense of personal insecurity.
(Of course, Romney’s own sense of being a giant among pygmies
can only have been enhanced by the collection of rivals he has
been debating.)  When has Mitt Romney ever triumphed over adversity? (There
have been times in his life he worried about getting fired,
 Romney has said . But his campaign couldn’t provide any
examples.) Or -- better still -- when has adversity ever
triumphed over him? I’m not asking for one of those gruesome
“narratives,” beloved of political consultants, in which
candidates mine their own tragedies -- or, worse, their
children’s tragedies -- for cheap sympathy. If his life has been
smooth sailing, that’s great. But how can we trust someone who
has never faced adversity, never faced any big moral test, and
can’t even pass the tiny moral test of telling the truth when
the lie is obvious?  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.   To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor of this article:
Michael Newman at +1-202-654-7385 or  mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 