-- Rupiah Completes Fourth Weekly Decline as Funds Cut Holdings
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 2012-01-13T09:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/rupiah-completes-fourth-weekly-decline-as-funds-cut-holdings.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah completed its
biggest weekly loss since November after overseas funds cut
holdings of the nation’s assets on concern Europe’s debt crisis
will slow global growth. Bonds gained.  Foreign ownership  of government debt fell by 2.27 trillion
rupiah ($247 million), or 1 percent, to 220.32 trillion rupiah
in the first two days of this week, finance ministry data show.
Overseas investors sold $14 million more Indonesian shares than
they bought this week through yesterday, according to exchange
data.  Bank Indonesia  kept its benchmark interest  rate  at 6
percent yesterday, as predicted by 13 of 18 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Five expected a quarter of a percentage point cut.  “Europe is still a factor for the negative sentiment,”
said Wiling Bolung, head of treasury at ANZ Panin Bank in
Jakarta. “The central bank’s decision yesterday not to reduce
interest rates may take some pressure off the rupiah.’”  The rupiah declined 1 percent this week to 9,183 per dollar
as of 3:15 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It dropped 0.3 percent today and reached
9,233 on Jan. 9, the weakest level since Nov. 29. The currency
has lost 1.3 percent this year.  The rupiah’s trend until the end of the year is to
strengthen, Perry Warjiyo, director of economic research and
monetary policy at the central bank, told reporters today. The
currency’s appreciation may start in the second quarter of this
year as “uncertainties” in  Europe  may drag the rupiah in the
first quarter, Warjiyo said.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
dropped seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, this week
to 6.14 percent, according to midday prices from the Inter-
Dealer Market Association. The rate dropped eight basis points
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  