-- S&P Cuts Italy Two Levels to BBB+ on Rise in Costs of Financing Debt
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-13T23:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/s-p-cuts-italy-two-levels-to-bbb-on-rise-in-costs-of-financing-debt.html
Italy ’s credit rating was cut two
levels by  Standard & Poor’s , which said the inability of
European leaders to contain the region’s debt crisis would
complicate the country’s efforts to finance the area’s second-
biggest debt.  S&P cut Italy to BBB+ from an A rating, the second
downgrade by the rating company since September 19, according to
an e-mailed statement yesterday. S&P, which cut eight other
euro-region nations including top rated France and  Austria , left
its outlook on Italy negative.  “Italy’s ratings reflects our view that the country’s
external financing costs have risen markedly and may remain
elevated for an extended period of time amid a reduction in
cross-border financing of Italian banks and the government,”
the New York-based rating company said.  “We expect that a difficult external financing environment
will have negative implications for growth performance and hence
public finances.”  S&P had put 15 euro nations, including Italy, on review for
a downgrade on Dec. 5, linking its final decision to the outcome
of an EU summit that ended on Dec. 9. EU leaders, in their fifth
attempt to come up with a comprehensive solution to end the two-
year old debt crisis, agreed to forge a tighter fiscal union,
shore up bailout funds and tighten rules to curb future debts.  Summit ‘Insufficient’  The outcome of the summit was insufficient “to fully
address the euro zone’s financial problems,” S&P said.  The decision increases pressure on Prime Minister  Mario Monti  to show he can implement a 30 billion-euro ($38 billion)
plan passed by Parliament in December to cut Italy’s debt and
spur economic growth. Concern about Italy’s ability to fund a
1.9 trillion-euro debt pushed its 10-year bond yield this month
to more than the 7 percent threshold that prompted  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond rose 1 basis point to
6.64 percent, and down from 7.16 percent on Jan. 9. That widened
the gap between Italian and German yields to 488 basis points.  While the  European Central Bank  loaned almost half a
trillion euros for three years to euro-region banks in December
to avert a credit crisis, the Frankfurt-based institution has
resisted pressure from politicians to step up its purchases of
government bonds of countries such as Italy and  Spain .  Bond Auctions  The ECB lending helped shore up demand for Italian bonds
and yields plunged this week at its first two auctions of the
year. Italy sold 12 billion euros of bills on Jan. 12 and 4.75
billion euros of bonds yesterday. The Treasury paid 2.735
percent on its one-year bills, less than half the rate at the
December sale.  The rating cut may stem the slide in Italy’s financing
costs as the country braces for more than 50 billion euros of
bond redemptions in the first quarter. The Treasury needs to
sell 450 billion euros of bonds and bills this year to service
its debt.  “Italy is being stripped of its membership of the ‘A’ club
of developed market sovereigns,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing
director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London , wrote in an e-
mail report. “It remains one of the most vulnerable economies
in the  euro zone  because of the huge amount of debt it needs to
roll over this year and the threat of a severe recession
exacerbated by fiscal austerity.”  Italy’s $2.3 trillion economy will contract between 0.4
percent and 0.5 percent this year, its fourth recession in a
decade, and remain flat in 2013, Deputy Finance Minister
 Vittorio Grilli  said on Dec. 4. Monti has pledged to present a
new plan to spur Italian growth and competitiveness at a meeting
of euro-area finance chiefs on Jan. 23.  Although Italy’s debt is larger than that of Greece, Spain,
Portugal and Ireland combined, its 2010 budget deficit of 4.6
percent of gross domestic product last year is less than
 France ’s and half that of the U.K.. Monti’s measures should help
the government achieve its goal of balancing the budget in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  