-- SAC, Z Said to Be Near Deal for Golden Gate’s Neways Under Restructuring
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-01-13T22:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/sac-z-said-to-be-near-deal-for-golden-gate-s-neways-under-restructuring.html
Creditors SAC Capital Advisors LP
and Z Capital Partners LLC are poised to take control of  Golden
Gate  Capital Corp.’s Neways in a restructuring that would allow
it to avoid bankruptcy, said people with knowledge of the talks.  Golden Gate will keep an equity stake in the company
through an out-of-court financial restructuring, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.
Neways, which makes personal and household products that don’t
use so-called controversial ingredients, defaulted on about $235
million of second-lien loans last year and was weighing a
bankruptcy filing, people familiar with the matter said Nov. 17.  Neways distributes health and beauty products in nearly 30
countries through a global network of about 500,000 independent
distributors, according to its website. It was acquired by San
Francisco-based Golden Gate for an undisclosed price in 2006.
The Springville, Utah-based company has struggled with
operations, including at its business in  Japan , according to the
people.  “The company remains in active and constructive
discussions with its lenders regarding an out-of-court
resolution and looks forward to reaching a mutually agreeable
solution,” said Meaghan Repko, a spokeswoman for Neways.  Peter J. Solomon Co. is advising Neways, said the people.  Spokesmen for Golden Gate, SAC Capital and Z Capital
declined to comment. Golden Gate, which manages about $12
billion, raised $3.5 billion for its Opportunity Fund last year,
a person familiar with that investment said in November.  SAC Capital, the $14 billion hedge fund, is run by
billionaire  Steve Cohen  and based in Stamford, Connecticut.  Z Capital, a private-equity firm based in  Chicago , is among
the creditors that took control of cookie chain Mrs. Fields
Famous Brands LLC last year.  Neways formulates its products excluding more than 3,000
ingredients that it says should be avoided because, while legal,
they are “scientifically controversial.” These include
formaldehyde, a chemical byproduct of some preservatives, and
phthalates, a common fragrance additive, according to the
company’s website.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Jonathan Keehner in  New York  at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 