-- SAP ‘Outshines’ Oracle as Software Sales Exceed Estimates
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-01-13T16:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/sap-quarterly-profit-sales-beat-estimates-on-software-spending.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of
business-management software, reported fourth-quarter sales and
profit that beat analysts’ estimates, triggering the steepest
jump by its stock in more than four months in Frankfurt.  Revenue from software and related services climbed 12
percent to 3.72 billion euros ($4.7 billion) under accounting
methods SAP uses for its forecasts, the Walldorf, Germany-based
company said today. That compared with the 3.6 billion-euro
average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts. Operating
profit gained 10 percent, also topping projections.  Stepping up rivalry with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , Co-Chief Executive
Officers  Bill McDermott  and Jim Hagemann Snabe bolstered SAP
last month with the $3.4 billion acquisition of SuccessFactors
Inc. Oracle shares fell the most in more than nine years on Dec.
21 after the Redwood-City, California-based company reported
profit and sales that missed estimates.  “They outshone Oracle,” said Mirko Maier, an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart with a “hold”
rating on SAP shares. “It’s a very positive statement, since
they kept more than they promised and calmed investors after the
disappointment at Software AG.”  This week, smaller rival Software AG slumped 20 percent
within one day after earnings missed projections. Helped by
demand for its Hana real-time analytics software, SAP held up
while slower economic growth in the U.S. and the risk of a
recession across the euro zone is making governments and
businesses more wary of spending.  Shares Jump  SAP, down 1.2 percent before the release, jumped as much as
4.3 percent to 43.24 euros and traded 3.4 percent higher as of
4:54 p.m. in Frankfurt, valuing the German company at 52.7
billion euros. Oracle slipped 0.6 percent in New York trading.  Software sales, a predictor of future revenue, climbed 16
percent to 1.74 billion euros in the fourth quarter, SAP said
today. Oracle’s  new license revenue  grew 2 percent to $2.05
billion in the quarter ended Nov. 30.  “They’re benefiting from Oracle’s customer base being
upset about the prices and contract negotiations and I think
it’s finally coming out,” said Donald Feinberg, an analyst at
Gartner Inc. in  Sao Paulo .  SAP plans to report detailed earnings and state its outlook
for 2012 on Jan. 25.  Beating Forecasts  The software maker exceeded its 2011 growth forecast for
sales from software and related services, as revenue grew 17
percent at constant currency compared with the 14 percent higher
end of its forecast, based on non-international financial
reporting standards. SAP also beat its profit forecast for the
year.  New contracts in the past quarter included deals with Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc, French computing services provider Atos SA
and German public health insurer AOK. SAP also completed the
purchase of business-to-business networking provider Crossgate
AG and announced a $2 billion spending plan in  China .  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, contracted by about 0.25
percent in the fourth quarter from the third, the Federal
Statistics Office said this week.  “In an uncertain environment, SAP delivered the best year
in its 40 year history,” the co-CEOs said in a statement. “We
gained significant market share and achieved double-digit growth
across all regions.”  Hana Technology  Sales of the Hana in-memory computing technology totaled
160 million euros in 2011, beating SAP’s own forecast by 60
percent. The company will probably continue to benefit from a
one-year head start in that product category compared with
Oracle, Gartner’s Feinberg said.  Siemens AG, Exxon Mobil Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. are
among more than 176,000 companies that use SAP’s applications to
order goods, plan inventory levels and manage sales. The company
is trying to sell them mobile software gained through the Sybase
acquisition and Hana, which lets companies analyze data in a
computer’s memory instead of through slower disk drives.  SAP aims to boost annual revenue to more than 20 billion
euros by 2015 with the help of cloud-computing software, mobile
applications and Hana.  Global software revenue is set to grow 5.8 percent this
year, helped by demand from companies wanting to move computing
resources to external server centers, as well as the need to
process large datasets and increased use of mobile devices,
according to research firm IDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  