-- Scotland’s Salmond Says Osborne ‘Thinks He Owns’ Sterling
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-01-13T11:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/scotland-s-salmond-says-osborne-thinks-he-owns-sterling-1-.html
Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond
said U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  “seems to
think he owns” the pound.  Osborne refused to say yesterday whether an independent
 Scotland  would be allowed to keep the currency, saying only in
an interview with ITV News that Salmond wants to join the euro.
The ruling Scottish National Party said in 2009 it would join
the euro when economic conditions are right, subject to a
referendum.  “George Osborne has been Chancellor for 18 or 20 months,
or so, but he seems to think he now owns sterling,” Salmond
said in an interview with Dublin-based RTE Radio today. “The
 Bank of England  was founded by a Scot. There were Scottish bank
notes before the Bank of England was founded.”  “Many countries, as they’ve become independent from  London 
over the years, have used sterling.  Australia , for example,
after they became independent, used sterling.”  The U.K. may not be able to stop Scotland using sterling if
it became independent, the Scotsman said, citing unidentified
Treasury officials. Banks in an independent Scotland might no
longer be able to print their own banknotes, the paper said.  The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Bank of Scotland, a
unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc, and Clydesdale Bank, a unit of
National Australia Bank Ltd. all have the right to print their
own bank notes.  Salmond, whose Scottish National Party won an overall
majority in the Scottish parliamentary elections last May, plans
to hold a referendum on independence in the second half of 2014.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  and the opposition parties in
Scotland want it to be held earlier.  The two sides are also in dispute over what questions
should be included on the ballot paper, who should be allowed to
vote and who should supervise the referendum.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  