-- Serb Support Rose in December From September, Office Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-01-13T14:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/serb-support-rose-in-december-from-september-office-says-1-.html
Serb support for European Union
membership rose in December from the previous quarter as anger
in September over German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s negative
assessment about the nation’s chances waned.  A Dec. 16-21 survey by the  Integration Office  showed
support rose to 51 percent from 46 percent in September, when
the previous poll was released. Opposition dropped to 28 percent
from 37 percent earlier. Another 18 percent would refrain from
voting and 3 percent were undecided.  The EU in December put off deciding on Serbia’s candidacy
until March, following months of warnings that the Balkan
country has not done enough to fight corruption, streamline the
economy and make peace with the breakaway province of  Kosovo .
Supporters believe the long-range benefits to the country
outweigh being left out of Europe, even as accession hits snags
and  Europe  fights to calm the sovereign debt crisis.  “Emotional reactions from September have been replaced by
more rational assessment of interests,” said Integration Office
Chief Milica Delevic. The survey of 1,031 adult respondents has
a margin of error of 3.31 percent.  Relations with Kosovo remain a key condition to candidacy
and there has been progress in implementing agreements on
“integrated border management and the regional representation
of Kosovo,” the main requirements, Delevic said.  Relations with Kosovo should improve regardless of the EU
accession process, according to 75 percent of respondents.  Top Priority  Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic’s government, facing new
elections by May, has made joining the EU a top priority during
its term, which began in 2008.  Serbia ’s application follows former Yugoslav partners
 Slovenia , an EU member since 2004,  Croatia , which wrapped up
talks on June 30 and hopes to join the 27-member bloc in
mid-2013, and Montenegro, which received the green light to
start accession talks in February.  The sentiment survey was first launched in 2002. Many Serbs
see candidacy as a chance for new jobs, free travel and more law
and order. Thirty-eight percent see membership as a symbol of
better life, 34 percent say will improve Serbia’s image and 27
percent believe it will mean access to EU cash.  When asked which country should serve as a model for
Serbia’s future, 37 percent picked  Switzerland , which isn’t an
EU member. Sixteen-percent chose  Germany , which has the largest
economy in the 27-nation EU.  “So people choose European models, European standards, and
if possible, without conditions,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  