-- Solar Capacity Rose 54% to 28 Gigawatts Last Year, BNEF Says
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-01-13T12:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/solar-capacity-rose-54-to-28-gigawatts-last-year-bnef-says.html
New solar capacity around the world
increased 54 percent to about 28 gigawatts last year driven by
record installations in  Germany  and  Italy , Bloomberg New Energy
Finance data shows.  Photovoltaic installations rose to between 26.5 and 29.4
gigawatts last year, compared with 18.2 gigawatts during 2010,
said Jenny Chase, head of solar analysis at the London-based
research company. Her central forecast was for 28 gigawatts.  European governments from the Germany to Italy and the U.K.
are curbing subsidies as prices for PV panels decline, aiming to
choke off a boom in installations that started after they
offered feed-in tariffs giving above-market rates for
electricity from low-carbon sources.  “The year was on the high side of even bullish
estimates,” Chase said by e-mail. “We think 2012 will be about
flat, as European markets have overshot targets and spending
caps and plan to rein back severely.”  Solar installations grew around the world, driven by
crashing panel prices. Shares of solar companies led by  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and Suntech Power Holdings Co. declined because of 
oversupply and declining margins.  New spending on solar energy jumped 36 percent to $136.6
billion in 2011, outpacing the $74.9 billion put into wind
power, and represented almost half of all renewable energy
investment worldwide last year, BNEF said in a statement
yesterday. Those figures also include solar thermal facilities,
which use mirrors to heat fluid that turns turbines.  Chase said the strength of installations in the fourth
quarter isn’t a reason for optimism in 2012. European markets
will slow because of subsidy cuts, and while nearly all the
other markets will continue to grow, they are smaller.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  