-- Fitch Lowers Outlook on South Africa Credit Rating to Negative From Stable
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-01-13T16:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/south-africa-s-rating-outlook-lowered-to-negative-from-stable-by-fitch.html
South Africa ’s credit-rating outlook
was cut to negative by  Fitch Ratings  as stagnating growth curbs
job creation and curbs the government’s ability to manage its
deficit. The rand erased gains made so far this year.  Fitch, which lowered the outlook from stable, affirmed the
BBB+ foreign-currency credit rating for  Africa ’s biggest
economy, it said in an e-mailed statement today. The assessment
is the third-lowest investment grade on its rating scale.  The rand dropped the most in more than a month against the
dollar after the statement was released, losing as much as 2.2
percent to 8.2254 and erasing its advance this year. Rand-
denominated debt due in 2015 fell for the first time in four
days, raising the yield nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, to 6.83 percent.  “Not least of the problems that require urgent attention
is the economy’s inability to create sufficient jobs for its
 labor force ,” Purvi Harlalka, a London-based credit analyst,
wrote in the note. “Failure to accelerate growth and make it
more labor-intensive on a sustained basis will gradually weaken
South Africa’s credit fundamentals and have negative
implications for the rating.”  South Africa’s  unemployment rate  surged to 25 percent in
the third quarter, the highest of the 61 nations tracked by
Bloomberg, as the economy expanded near the slowest pace in
about two years.  Gross domestic product  needs to expand 7
percent annually through 2020 to cut the rate to 14 percent, the
government has said.  National Treasury Concern  “Of concern to us is that this revision comes barely a
year after Fitch Ratings revised South Africa’s outlook from
negative to stable,” the  National Treasury  said in a  statement 
posted on its website. “The Fitch statement, however, confirms
that South Africa’s key rating drivers remain strong while the
rating remains underpinned by the strength of our institutions
relative to our peers.”  The South African Reserve Bank won’t comment on the matter,
spokesman Hlengani Mathebula said when contacted on his mobile
phone.  The  budget deficit  will widen to 5.5 percent in the year
through March, from a revised 4.6 percent in the previous 12-
month period, the National Treasury said on Oct. 25. Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  cut the government’s forecast for growth
to 3.4 percent for this year, from a previous estimate of 4.1
percent, on Oct. 25.  The likelihood of an actual downgrade “at this point is
minimal,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research at
Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in a telephone interview.  ‘Long-Term Aim’  “We all know that South Africa is spending that much more
on the social side and is forecasting a budget deficit, but
that’s just the Treasury being realistic,” Khan said. “Fiscal
consolidation is still the long-term aim.”  Moody’s Investors Service reduced the outlook on South
Africa’s A3 rating to negative from stable on Nov. 9, citing
“heightened political risk.”  Standard & Poor’s  has a stable
outlook on its BBB+ rating for South Africa.  While the ruling  African National Congress  is unlikely to
expropriate assets, the debate sparked by the party’s youth wing
has “upset” investor confidence, Fitch said. Steps to
nationalize mining assets would have “immediate and negative
consequences for the rating.”  ANC Youth League President  Julius Malema  has called for
mines to be nationalized in South Africa, the world’s largest
producer of platinum and chrome. He is appealing a five-year
suspension from the party after he was found guilty of
undermining the organization.  “Political noise has increased in recent months and is set
to continue this year,” Fitch said in the statement. “However,
Fitch sees the threat of nationalization -- a key focus of
debate -- as being remote.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  