-- South Africa’s Surging Corn Prices Drive Livestock Feed Producers to Wheat
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2012-01-13T13:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/south-africa-s-surging-corn-prices-drive-livestock-feed-producers-to-wheat.html
South African livestock feed
producers are turning to wheat as an alternative to corn for the
first time in a decade after prices of the grain surged, the
country’s biggest feed company said.  Wheat is being used for  animal feed  in Western Cape
province, which produces about two fifths of  South Africa ’s
wheat, said an official at  Meadow Feeds Ltd ., who declined to be
identified in line with company policy. Meadow, owned by
 Pretoria , South Africa-based  Astral Foods Ltd. (ARL) , supplies feed
for farm animals ranging from chickens and ostriches to cattle.  While yellow corn is still being used, the difference
between the cost of wheat produced in the province and corn
shipped from provinces in eastern South Africa is making wheat
an affordable alternative, he said in a Jan. 11 interview. Corn
prices in South Africa have surged after national stocks of the
grain plunged 40 percent as of the end of November, the biggest
fall in at least a decade, because of a surge in exports.  “This is happening for the first time in roughly 10
years,” he said. Historically, wheat used to be approximately
900 rand ($112) more expensive per ton than yellow corn, but the
difference has narrowed, Brink van Wyk, a trader at Bosveld
Graan, said in an interview in Johannesburg.  Yellow corn for March delivery closed trade at 2,570 rand a
ton on the South African Futures Exchange in Johannesburg, and
has increased 39 percent in the last six months while wheat for
delivery in that month closed trade at 2,795 rand, a difference
of 225 rand. Six months ago wheat was 940 rand more expensive
than yellow corn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  