-- South Sudan Says Oil Pipeline May Shut Down on Sudan Blockade of Shipments
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-01-13T16:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/south-sudan-says-oil-pipeline-may-shut-down-on-sudan-blockade-of-shipments.html
South Sudan  said the operators of a
pipeline that carries its oil exports to Port  Sudan  have warned
the facility may be closed in two days unless a blockade being
imposed by neighboring Sudan on its shipments is lifted.  Sudan’s government would be “responsible for any damages
that will follow that shut down,” South Sudanese Oil Minister
Stephen Dhieu Dau told reporters today in Juba, the capital.  South Sudan on Jan. 10 accused Sudan of blocking 3.4
million barrels of its oil exports and said the northern
neighbour is also seeking to divert the flow of some of its
crude by building a new pipeline.  Sudan’s Foreign Ministry said it prevented the vessels from
leaving international waters in the  Red Sea  because they failed
to pay port fees. The new oil pipeline is for use in the future,
when the government plans to “buy or take over part of our dues
from the south in crude, after reaching a final oil agreement,”
it said on Jan. 11.  South Sudan assumed control of about three-quarters of
Sudan’s output of 490,000 barrels a day when it seceded on July
9 after an independence referendum. Talks since then have failed
to yield an agreement on the amount landlocked South Sudan will
pay to transport its oil through a pipeline across Sudan.  The two sides failed to reach an agreement on the oil
dispute in talks last month. Further African Union-sponsored
negotiations are scheduled to take place from Jan. 17 to Jan. 23
in  Addis Ababa , the capital of  Ethiopia .  Double Oil Output  Dau also said South Sudan plans to double oil production to
700,000 barrels per day in five years. For that increase to
happen, the country would need to build a new oil pipeline
because the current one doesn’t have sufficient capacity, he
said. South Sudan also doesn’t want to be dependent on Sudan for
its oil to be exported, Dau said.  “We must plan to diversify the routes,” he said. “You
should not put all your eggs in one basket.” South Sudan has
previously said it is exploring routes through Kenya and
Ethiopia.  South Sudan’s government earlier today signed exploration
and production-sharing agreements with six companies including
 China National Petroleum Corp. (CNPZ) ,  Malaysia ’s  Petroliam Nasional
Bhd (PET)  and  India ’s  Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  for six blocks in the
East African country. Foreign  oil companies  have been operating
without signed accords since South Sudan’s independence.  The state also plans to negotiate with companies that have
agreements for non-producing blocks signed with companies before
independence.  “We believe some of these companies have overstayed on
those blocks without doing anything and even the ownership of
these blocks is in question,” Dau said. “As a sovereign state we
will not abide by contracts signed by the Republic of Sudan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 