-- Won, Bonds Advance as Bank of Korea Holds Rate to Support Economic Growth
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-01-13T06:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/south-korea-won-gains-bonds-drop-as-spain-italy-borrowing-costs-decline.html
South  Korea ’s won rose to a one-week
high as the central bank kept borrowing costs unchanged for a
seventh month to support the economy and said it aims to curb
inflation to 3 percent. Bonds gained.  The Bank of Korea held the  benchmark interest rate  at 3.25
percent, a decision predicted by all 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, and said in a statement that the European debt
crisis poses risks to the domestic economy. The won climbed for
a second day as borrowing costs fell for Spain and  Italy  at
separate debt sales yesterday, tempering concern  Europe ’s
financial problems will worsen.  “Better-than-expected bond sales in Europe boosted the
won,” said Lee Jin Ill, a Seoul-based senior currency trader
with Hana Bank. “The  Bank of Korea  showed strong commitment to
stem inflation, which heightened speculation the government will
allow currency gains to curb gains in import prices.”  The won strengthened the most in more than three weeks,
rising 0.9 percent to 1,148.40 per dollar in Seoul, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It reached 1,147.68 earlier, the
strongest level since Jan. 5. The currency appreciated 1.3
percent this week, its first advance since the five-day period
that ended Dec. 23.  Central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo said after today’s
policy meeting in Seoul that policy makers aim to cool inflation
to 3 percent in the medium term, from 4.2 percent in December.
The decision to hold rates was unanimous and the bank will
“normalize” rates if inflation becomes chronic, said Kim.  Stock Inflows  Global funds boosted holdings of Korean stocks for a fourth
day, adding to net purchases of $476 million this month through
yesterday, exchange data show.  Spain  sold 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of bonds at
yesterday’s auction, twice the target for the sale. Italy’s
Treasury sold one-year bills at 2.735 percent, less than half
the rate paid last month for similar-maturity notes.  The yield on  South Korea ’s 3.5 percent bonds due September
2016 declined one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to a
one-week low of 3.49 percent, according to Korea Exchange Inc.
prices. The rate for benchmark three-year bonds fell two basis
points to 3.36 percent.  “The central bank’s statement on downside risks to the
economy and the European debt crisis is supporting demand for
sovereign bonds,” said Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst at
Taurus Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  