-- Soybeans Gain as South American Drought May Curb Production; Wheat Rises
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-01-13T11:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/soybeans-gain-first-time-in-four-days-as-usda-trims-global-supply-forecast.html
Soybeans rose in Chicago, narrowing
a second weekly drop, on speculation dryness in  South America 
will further curb production.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture yesterday cut estimates
for soybean output in  Brazil  and Argentina because of a drought.
Global stockpiles will total 53.43 million metric tons, down 1.7
percent from a December estimate, it said. Rain will be scarce
and temperatures will be high in the Pampas region of Argentina
in the next week, the Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange said
yesterday.  “The market is concerned about losses stemming from the
weather in Argentina and Brazil,” said  Sudakshina Unnikrishnan ,
an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London . “The South American
weather is calling for caution in terms of being bearish on corn
and soybeans. What I’ve heard so far is that the rains have been
too little, too late.”  Soybeans for March delivery gained 0.4 percent to $11.8775
a bushel by 11:29 a.m. London time on the Chicago Board of
Trade. The oilseed is down 0.7 percent this week and fell 1.7
percent yesterday as the cut in the USDA’s inventory estimate
was smaller than expected.  The agency  lowered  its soybean-production forecast for
Brazil, the second-largest grower, by 1 million tons as dry
weather hurt crops. It reduced the projection for third-ranking
Argentina by 1.5 million tons.  “The return of La Nina weather conditions in South America
leaves risks skewed to the upside this spring, especially for
soybeans,”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said in a report today.  Corn, Wheat  Corn for March delivery advanced 0.2 percent to $6.1275 a
bushel. The grain is down 4.8 percent this week.  The USDA also lowered its corn-production estimate for
Argentina, the second-largest exporter after the U.S., by 3
million tons from the December forecast to 26 million tons. A
drought in Brazil and Argentina may have cut corn output by 11
million tons, forecaster Agroconsult said.  Wheat for March delivery gained 0.6 percent to $6.0875 a
bushel. The grain is down 2.6 percent this week, set for a
second drop in a row. Milling wheat for March delivery traded on
NYSE Liffe in Paris gained 0.9 percent to 195.75 euros ($250.10)
a ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 