-- Spain’s Credit Rating Lowered Two Notches With Negative Outlook
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-01-13T23:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/spain-s-credit-rating-lowered-two-notches-with-negative-outlook.html
Spain ’s credit rating was cut two
levels by  Standard & Poor’s  after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
government said on Dec. 30 the nation’s budget deficit will
overshoot its 2011 target by a third.  S&P yesterday cut Spain’s long-term rating on its debt to A
from AA-, the second downgrade by the rating agency in three
months and the fourth since January 2009. Spain’s outlook was
lowered to negative, S&P said in a statement released in
Frankfort, indicating “at least a one-in-three chance that the
rating will be lowered in 2012 or 2013.”  Spain was joined by eight other European countries,
including  France , Italy and  Portugal , in being downgraded, with
France and  Austria  losing their top AAA credit ratings. S&P
affirmed the long-term ratings of seven others, including the
Netherlands,  Belgium  and Ireland, in a move that leaves  Germany 
as the eurozone’s only stable AAA credit.  “Today’s rating actions are primarily driven by our
assessment that the policy initiatives that have been taken by
European policymakers in recent weeks may be insufficient to
fully address ongoing systemic stresses in the eurozone,” S&P
said. Spain’s downgrade “reflects our opinion of the impact of
deepening political, financial and monetary problems within the
European Economic and Monetary Union (eurozone), with which
Spain is closely integrated.”  The downgrade comes as European leaders return to work from
Christmas holidays seeking to buy time for the Spanish and
Italian governments to wrest control over their debt and rescue
the single currency from fragmentation as the region’s crisis
enters a new year. Spain risks becoming the latest euro nation
to be overwhelmed by the sovereign-debt turmoil as its economy
contracts and after the government failed to tackle its  budget
deficit , the euro area’s third-largest in 2010.  Spending Cuts  Rajoy’s People’s Party government, which took over from the
Socialists on Dec. 22, announced 14.9 billion euros ($19.3
billion) of spending cuts and tax increases on Dec. 30 as it
estimated that the 2011 budget deficit will amount to 8 percent
of gross domestic product instead of the previous government’s 6
percent target. The shortfall reached 9.3 percent in 2010.  The government will need to reduce by almost half this
year’s budget gap to comply with its 2012 commitment and meet an
election pledge of restoring Spain’s AAA rating lost in 2009.  Spain faces the task of funding more than 30 billion euros
of maturing debt in the first quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Comprehensive Solution  S&P put 15 euro nations, including Spain, on review for a
downgrade on Dec. 5, linking the final decision to the outcome
of a European Union summit that ended Dec. 9 in Brussels. EU
leaders, in their fifth attempt to come up with a comprehensive
solution to end the debt crisis, agreed to forge a tighter
fiscal union, shore up its bailout funds and tighten rules to
curb future debts.  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said on Jan. 3
that measures to reduce the country’s “significant slippage”
in its budget must be “complemented with reforms to increase
the potential growth of the Spanish economy.” De Guindos said
on Dec. 26 he expected two “tough quarters” ahead.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
cut its forecast for Spain’s 2012 growth to 0.3 percent on Nov.
28 from the 1.6 percent it estimated last May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  