-- Suspended Korean Savings Bank Chief Found Dead in Hotel Before Questioning
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-01-13T04:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/suspended-bank-chairman-found-dead-in-seoul.html
The biggest shareholder of  Ace
Mutual Savings Bank , a South Korean lender whose operations were
suspended last year by the regulator, was found dead yesterday
ahead of scheduled questioning by prosecutors.  The body of Kim Hak Heon, chairman of Incheon, South Korea-
based Ace Mutual, was discovered in a  Seoul  hotel room, the
city’s Bangbae district police authorities said in a statement
posted on their  website . Prosecutors had planned to question Kim
yesterday regarding allegations of illicit lending and
accounting fraud, the police said.  Ace Mutual was one of 16 savings banks shuttered by South
Korean regulators last year as developers defaulted on loans
amid a slowdown in the real-estate market. South Korean
prosecutors last year indicted more than 100 people including
shareholders, executives of the savings banks and government and
regulatory officials over lax management and oversight as well
as misuse of funds.  Kim owned a 56 percent stake in closely held Ace Mutual,
according to the bank’s regulatory filing. The lender had total
assets of 991.8 billion won ($860 million) as of June, according
to Financial Services Commission data.  A woman who answered two calls to the Supreme Prosecutors’
Office of  Korea  declined to comment or connect the calls to a
spokesman and refused to give her name, and there was no
response to an e-mail sent by Bloomberg News. A person who
answered the phone at Ace Mutual’s headquarters in Seoul also
declined to comment and refused to provide her name.  Asset Sales  Korea Deposit Insurance Corp., the state-run firm leading
the sale of the suspended savings banks, chose  Hana Financial
Group Inc. (086790)  last month as a preferred bidder to buy assets from
Ace Mutual and Jeil II Savings Bank.  South Korea ’s regulator has pledged to tighten scrutiny of
savings banks and limit their operations to protect their main
customers, who are primarily low-income borrowers and small
businesses. The combined assets of the savings banks are less
than 3 percent of the country’s financial assets, the Financial
Services Commission said last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  