-- Swiss Stocks Decline Amid Reports of S&P Downgrades in Euro Area
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-01-13T16:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/swiss-stock-exchange-to-open-at-midday-as-technical-problems-cause-delay.html
Swiss stocks  fell for the second
time in three days as reports that some euro-area countries are
close to being downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s  overshadowed
falling borrowing costs at sovereign-bond auctions.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  retreated after saying it will take $1.22
billion of charges. Nobel Biocare AG retreated 0.5 percent.  The
 Swiss National Bank  jumped 15 percent after saying it returned
to an annual profit in 2011.  The  SMI (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most actively traded
companies, lost 0.4 percent to 5,996.34 at the close of trading
in Zurich. Trading on the Swiss stock exchange was delayed today
and started at noon after technical issues. The gauge is poised
to close the week 0.3 percent lower. The broader Swiss
Performance Index fell 0.3 percent today.  The downgrades may happen as soon as today, according to
Dow Jones Newswires, which cited European Union sources.
 Germany ’s rating will not be cut, Reuters reported, citing a
senior euro-area source. S&P declined to comment on the reports.  “The feeling is that if  France ’s rating can be lowered, so
should Italy’s,  Spain ’s and Portugal’s,” said John Plassard,
director of Louis Capital Markets in Geneva. “To this we must
also add that Germany,” and the region’s temporary bailout
fund, which means “nothing has changed since 2011,” he said.  Italy sold 4.75 billion euros ($6.1 billion) of bonds, its
maximum target, as yields fell. The Rome-based Treasury
yesterday raised 12 billion euros selling Treasury bills. Spain
and Germany this week received more bids than the amounts they
targeted in their debt sales.  Creditor Banks  Talks between  Greece  and its creditor banks were put on
hold after negotiations in  Athens  failed to yield an agreement.
A proposal put forward by the steering committee representing
financial firms has “not produced a constructive consolidated
response by all parties,” the Institute of International
Finance said.  The Thomson Reuters-University of Michigan preliminary
index of  consumer sentiment  in January increased to 74 from 69.9
at the end of December, a report showed today. Economists had
forecast an increase to 71.5, according to the median forecast
in the Bloomberg survey. The gauge averaged 89 in the five years
leading up to the recession that began in December 2007 and
ended in June 2009.  The European Banking Authority will postpone the annual
 stress test  for banks usually published in July, Handelsblatt
reported, citing a spokeswoman for the EBA. The test will be
delayed to allow time for banks to get fresh capital to fill
gaps documented by the last stress test in December, the
newspaper said. The test may be delayed until autumn or not
happen at all this year, Handelsblatt said.  Novartis, Roche  Novartis led losses, falling 0.7 percent to 53 Swiss
francs. The drugmaker will take a charge of $900 million in its
fourth quarter 2011 results related to Tekturna, and a charge of
$160 million to end research on two experimental drugs, Novartis
said. The company will also cut 1,960 U.S. jobs that will lead
to a charge of $160 million in the first quarter of 2012 and
annual savings of $450 million by 2013.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s largest maker of cancer
drugs, slipped 0.8 percent to 162 francs. Novartis and Roche
make up almost 35 percent of the SMI. Nobel Biocare AG retreated
0.5 percent to 11.51 francs.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s biggest watchmaker, slid 0.8
percent to 372.10 francs.  The Swiss National Bank jumped 15 percent to 1,144 francs
after the country’s central bank said it returned to an annual
profit in 2011, citing an  initial estimate . The profit was 13
billion francs ($13.8 billion) and the SNB said it will be able
to make a distribution of 1 billion francs to cantons and the
federation, quelling criticism spared by the previous year’s
record loss.  OC Oerlikon Corp AG (OERL) , the industrial equipment maker, rose
2.3 percent to 5.79 francs after  Michael Foeth , an analyst at
Vontobel Holding AG, raised the stock to “buy” from “hold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  