-- Switzerland’s Central Bank Returns to Profit
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-01-13T10:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/switzerland-s-central-bank-returns-to-profit.html
The Swiss central bank returned to a
profit in 2011 and said it will distribute money to regions,
quelling criticism sparked by the previous year’s record loss.  The profit was 13 billion Swiss francs ($13.8 billion), the
Zurich-based  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  said in a statement today,
citing an  initial estimate . The valuation gain on its gold
holdings contributed 5 billion francs to the result while
foreign-currency positions added 8 billion francs. It will
distribute 1 billion francs to cantons and the federation.  The SNB came under fire last year after currency purchases
sparked a record loss. Christoph Blocher, from the  Swiss
People’s Party , which had spearheaded efforts opposing the
intervention policy, contributed to what led to Philipp Hildebrand’s resignation as chief on Jan. 9 by handing leaked
documents of personal  bank transactions  to the government.  “This will help the embattled SNB to preserve its
reputation after the media outcry amid the resignation of
Hildebrand,” said Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency analyst at
Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva. “The Swiss cantons will be happy
to get a share of the profit.”  Record Loss  The SNB is a joint-stock company in which public
shareholders including cantons and regional banks have a stake
of about 55 percent. Private individuals hold the remainder.  The franc was little changed after the announcement,
trading at 1.2108 against the euro at 11:05 a.m. in Zurich. It
has remained above 1.20 since the SNB imposed the cap on Sept.
6. Against the dollar, it traded at 94.37 centimes.  Hildebrand, a former hedge-fund manager, stepped down after
failing to prove that his spouse acted independently on a
purchase of $504,000 for francs in August, three weeks before
the SNB imposed its ceiling. Hildebrand’s wife Kashya told Swiss
television this week there was an “error of judgment” and the
“transaction should have been reversed.”  Today’s profit contrasts with a record loss of 19.2 billion
francs in 2010, when the euro’s slump versus the franc eroded
the value of the SNB’s foreign-currency holdings amassed during
15 months of interventions. By imposing a franc cap of 1.20
versus the euro in September, the central bank was able to
stabilize the  exchange rate  and avert a repeat of losses.  “Today’s profit announcement will bolster the SNB’s
national reputation,” said  Claude Maurer , an economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “However, it doesn’t
strengthen its credibility as a central bank because its ability
to maintain  price stability  was never in doubt, even at the
times of the massive losses.”  The SNB said it will publish the detailed full-year report
with definitive figures on March 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  