-- Synutra Won’t Recall Milk Products As Government Probes Death
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-13T02:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/synutra-won-t-recall-milk-products-as-government-probes-death.html
Synutra International Inc., (SYUT)  a
Chinese baby formula maker, said its products are safe and it
won’t recall any after local news reports that one of the twin
infants using the company’s powdered milk died and another
became ill.  “We firmly believe this is an isolated incident unrelated
to Synutra’s products,” Synutra Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Liang Zhang said in a statement yesterday. “We have
chosen to not recall any of our products because we are
confident that they are safe.”  The products where the ill infants’ formula originated have
been removed, according to the company statement. All of the
company’s products including those in question are tested and
analyzed before shipment, the company said.  The claims against Synutra come after regulators found a
batch of tainted milk in the warehouse of  China  Mengniu Dairy Co.
last month. Infant formula contaminated with melamine, an
industrial chemical, killed at least six children in 2008.  “We hope to reassure consumers that we are fully confident
that our products are safe,” Zhang said in the statement. The
head of consumer protection department of the Industrial and
Commerce Bureau in Duchang, who only gave his surname as Cao,
said the bureau is waiting for tests results of the products in
question.  Twin Babies  The company said it issued the statement in response to
local Chinese media reports that a pair of four month twins in
the southeastern Chinese province of Jiangxi became ill with
severe intestinal symptoms.  “Both children were reported to have been consuming
Synutra powdered milk formula products for weeks before the
sudden onset of their illness,” Synutra said. One twin died
from dehydration on Jan. 7 and the other has recovered after
hospitalization, the statement said.  Commerce authorities in east China on Thursday said they
were investigating the dairy company, Xinhua reported yesterday.
Authorities have sealed the same batch of Synutra products in
the county of Duchang, where the case was reported, and sent
samples for testing, Xinhua reported citing officials with the
county’s bureau of industry and commerce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  