-- U.K. Stocks Retreat Amid Reports of S&P Downgrades in Euro Area
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-01-13T16:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/u-k-stocks-rally-on-optimism-euro-area-debt-crisis-is-easing.html
U.K. Stocks (UKX)  retreated, erasing an
earlier advance, amid reports several euro-region countries may
face imminent credit downgrades by  Standard & Poor’s .  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  dropped 2.5 percent after Morgan Stanley
warned of “potential weakness” in a note to clients.  Invensys
Plc (ISYS)  sank 19 percent after saying annual earnings will be
“significantly” below last year.  International Power Plc (IPR) 
retreated 2.2 percent.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  dropped 25.78, or 0.5 percent,
to 5,636.64 at the close in London. The gauge earlier rallied as
much as 0.8 percent. The broader FTSE All-Share Index slid 0.4
percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 0.1 percent.  “The bulls were blown out of the water today as it
gradually became more apparent that rumors of credit ratings
downgrades to a number of European countries were true,” said
 Angus Campbell , head of sales at Capital Spreads in  London .
“The downgrades are expected after European markets have closed
which is why so many people rushed for the exit.”  Stocks erased gains after Dow Jones Newswire reported
several euro-region countries face downgrades by S&P with France
included on the list. The  news agency  cited unidentified
European Union sources.  Germany will keep its AAA rating at S&P as France and
Austria face downgrades, according to government officials and
people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News.  France will lose its top rating for the first time, said
 Agence France-Presse , citing an unidentified government
official. Austria will be downgraded, a person familiar with the
situation said. The European official said the announcement may
come at 9 p.m. Brussels time.  Vodafone, the third-biggest  weighted  stock in the FTSE 100,
dropped 2.5 percent to 175 pence, a three-week low.  “We see potential weakness due to top line in  Europe ,”
Morgan Stanley analysts wrote in a report, saying they prefer
rival  BT Group Plc. (BT/A)  BT shares climbed 1.9 percent to 203.4
pence.  Invensys tumbled 19 percent to 183.2 pence, the steepest
drop since 2003, after the maker of washing-machine controls and
factory gear revealed 60 million pounds ($92 million) in
additional costs to fulfill contracts.  Earnings will be “significantly” below last year amid
cost overruns in rail-signal orders and extra engineering for
controls for eight nuclear reactors in  China , the company said.  International Power dropped 2.2 percent to 334.5 pence
after JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst Ian Mitchell advised clients
he had turned a “strong short-term seller” of the shares
following cuts to earnings estimates. We “could see 10 percent
downside from here,” he wrote in the note.  Fresnillo Falls  Fresnillo Plc (FRES) , the world’s largest primary silver miner,
was the  worst performer  on the FTSE 100, falling 2.7 percent to
1,687 pence as the precious metal retreated for the first time
in five days. Randgold Resources Ltd. slipped 1.7 percent to
7,115 pence as gold declined.  Elsewhere,  Hays Plc (HAS)  rose 5.1 percent to 64.7 pence after
Credit Suisse Group AG raised its recommendation for the
recruitment company to “outperform” from “neutral.”  Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY)  gained 1.3 percent to 281.7 pence after
the company was named the principal contractor by Axa Real
Estate for the construction of Sixty London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  