-- U.K. Inflation Probably Eased to 6-Month Low
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   M a r k   E v a n s
-- 2012-01-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/u-k-inflation-probably-eased-to-six-month-low-economists-say.html
U.K. inflation  probably eased in
December to its slowest pace in six months as stores cut prices
to lure shoppers during the key Christmas trading period.  Consumer prices rose an annual 4.2 percent after a 4.8
percent gain in November, according to the median forecast of 36
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . The  Office for National
Statistics  in  London  will publish the data at 9:30 a.m. on Jan.
17. A day later, labor-market data may show the jobless rate
remained at a 15-year high.  The Bank of England, which is buying  government bonds  to
support the economy, has forecast that inflation will moderate
sharply this year as a January 2011 sales-tax increase drops out
of the annual comparison and energy costs decline. Retailers
including Marks & Spencer Plc cut clothing prices in December,
while three of the U.K.’s largest energy suppliers trimmed
tariffs this week.  “The risks are building to the downside on U.K.
inflation,” said David Tinsley, chief U.K. economist at BNP
Paribas SA in London. “Not only are base effects falling out of
the consumer-price index, but there are weaker price effects
coming in.”  The  Bank of England , which maintained its target for asset
purchases at 275 billion pounds ($42 billion) this week,
predicts that inflation will ease to 1.7 percent at end of 2012,
below its 2 percent target.  Data yesterday showed that pipeline inflation pressure is
easing.  Factory-gate prices  unexpectedly fell 0.2 percent in
December, taking the annual growth rate to the lowest in a year.
The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization said that
world food prices fell 2.4 percent in December.  While cooling inflation will ease the squeeze on Britons’
finances,  consumer spending  may continue to be restrained by
rising unemployment.  Jobless claims  probably increased by 7,000 in December,
according to the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
The  unemployment rate  based on International Labour Organization
methods was 8.3 percent in the quarter through November, the
highest since 1996, a separate survey shows. The ONS will
publish that data on Jan. 18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Evans  in London at 
 mevans8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  