-- Labour Party Seeks to Emulate Cameron Spending Plans to Aid Credibility
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-01-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/u-k-labour-opposition-emulates-osborne-s-tax-spending-plans.html
The U.K.’s opposition  Labour Party 
sought to emulate Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s plans for lower
spending and higher taxes after 2015 in an effort to rebuild its
credibility on the economy.  Even as he argued ruling lawmakers are cutting the  budget
deficit  “too far and too fast,” opposition leader Ed Milband
said yesterday the next government will likely need to tackle
record borrowing after the 2015 election and so couldn’t now
promise to reverse tax increases and spending cuts.  “The prospects for what we will inherit if we win the
election in 2015 look pretty grim, frankly, and we are showing
that we understand those circumstances,” Miliband said on the
British Broadcasting Corp.’s “Andrew Marr Show.”  Miliband and his Treasury spokesman  Ed Balls  are seeking to
bolster Labour’s economic reputation with voters. They also aim
to fend off criticism from Cameron and Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  that Labour’s lax spending during 13
years in power caused the national debt to more than double
after 2007.  “However difficult this is for me, for some of my
colleagues and for our wider supporters, we cannot make any
commitments now that the next Labour government will reverse tax
rises or spending cuts,” Balls told the  Fabian Society , a
research group close to the party, on Jan. 14.  RBS, Lloyds  Money raised from selling the government’s stakes in  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Lloyds Banking Group Plc would be
used to pay down debt should Labour regain power in 2015, he
said.  “In our manifesto, we will commit to do the responsible
thing and use any windfall gain from the sale of the
government’s stakes in RBS and  Lloyds (LLOY)  to repay the national
debt, not for a giveaway,” Balls said.  A YouGov opinion poll in yesterday’s Sunday Times found 69
percent of respondents said Miliband is doing badly, while 49
percent of Labour supporters said the same. His party was backed
by 40 percent of those surveyed, compared to 38 percent support
for Cameron’s Conservatives, who are governing in a coalition
with the Liberal Democrats.  Miliband “doomed the Labour Party to electoral defeat by
lining up with the Tory-led coalition’s cuts and their attacks
on public-sector workers,”  Bob Crow , general secretary of the
Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers union, said yesterday.  AAA Rating  Miliband maintained his attack on the government’s economic
record, saying unnecessarily harsh austerity had hurt the
economy and public finances. He noted that  Standard & Poor’s 
said last week European nations risk focusing too much on
austerity as a route to smaller budgets, rather than trying to
foster expansion. The U.K. is still rated AAA by S&P.  “If you raise taxes too fast and you cut spending too
fast, what happens is you get low growth and it’s harder to pay
off your debt,” Miliband said. “So the government should
change course.”  Osborne said in November Britain faces two extra years of
austerity. He used his end-of-year economic statement to
Parliament to announce 23 billion pounds ($35 billion) of
additional spending cuts after the  Office for Budget
Responsibility  slashed its forecasts for economic growth.  The fiscal watchdog predicted Osborne will need to borrow
an extra 112 billion pounds by 2016 and said more than 700,000
public-sector workers will lose their jobs over the next six
years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  