-- U.K. Factory-Gate Prices Unexpectedly Fell in December on Fuel-Price Drop
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-13T09:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/u-k-factory-gate-prices-unexpectedly-fell-in-december-on-fuel-price-drop.html
U.K.  factory output prices 
unexpectedly fell in December for the first time in 18 months as
the cost of petroleum products such as gasoline plunged.  The cost of goods at factory gates declined 0.2 percent
from November, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. Annual price growth slowed to 4.8 percent, the least in
a year. On the month, economists had forecast a 0.1 percent gain
in December, according to the median of 17 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Declines in prices for commodities such as oil may ease
inflation pressure in the economy as producers and manufacturers
pass lower costs onto consumers. The  Bank of England , which
maintained its bond-purchase target at 275 billion pounds ($422
billion) yesterday, has forecast that consumer-price growth will
ease “sharply” this year.  “Output-price inflation has been fairly benign over recent
months,” said Victoria Cadman, an economist at Investec
Securities in London. “That should contribute to the sharp fall
in headline inflation that we expect to see early this year.”  Out of 10 categories, four recorded declines in prices,
four rose and two were unchanged. Prices for petroleum products
dropped 0.9 percent in December from November as diesel and gas
oil fell 1.2 percent. Chemical and pharmaceutical prices
declined 0.9 percent. Food prices rose 0.1 percent.  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
report. It traded at $1.5343 as of 9:37 a.m. in  London , up 0.1
percent from yesterday.  Core Prices  In a separate report, the statistics office said
construction output rose 0.2 percent in November from the
previous month, when it plunged 1 percent. From a year earlier,
output was down 1.6 percent.  Core producer prices , which exclude costs of food, alcohol,
tobacco and petroleum, slipped 0.1 percent on the month and were
up 3 from a year earlier, the statistics office said.  Input prices fell 0.6 percent in December from the previous
month and were up 8.7 percent from a year earlier, the
statistics office said. That’s the slowest annual increase since
October 2010.  SuperGroup Plc, the U.K. owner of the Superdry fashion
chain, expects to cut prices this year as it adds suppliers in
 India  and cotton costs ease, Chief Executive Officer Julian
Dunkerton said on Jan. 11.  Crude  oil prices  have fallen to $99.62 a barrel from about
$115 a barrel in May 2010, easing pressure on companies and
consumers. Electricite de France SA’s U.K. unit and Centrica Plc
said this week they will cut power prices for households. World
food prices fell 2.4 percent in December from the previous
month, led by grains, sugar and oilseeds, the  United Nations ’
 Food and Agriculture Organization  said yesterday. Copper has
fallen 19 percent in the past six months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  