-- U.S. Stocks Rally for Second Week as China Bets Offset Europe
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-01-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/u-s-stocks-rally-for-second-week-as-china-bets-offset-europe.html
U.S. stocks rose for a second week,
with benchmark indexes reaching five-month highs on Jan. 12, as
bets  China  may act to spur economic growth outweighed concern
about  credit-rating  cuts for some European nations.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index snapped a  four-day rally  on
the last day of the week as France and Austria faced losing
their AAA credit ratings at S&P and JPMorgan Chase & Co. posted
a drop in profit.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  jumped 7 percent in the week after
reporting fourth-quarter sales that topped estimates.
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  led gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) 
as investors bought stocks most tied to economic growth.  The S&P 500 added 0.9 percent to 1,289.09 this week,
extending its yearly gain to 2.5 percent. The Dow gained 62.14
points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,422.06 for the week. China’s
Shanghai Composite Index rallied 3.8 percent in five days,
halting a nine-week slide.  “The idea that China is very close to doing more, taking
its foot further off the brake and maybe even putting it on the
gas -- that’s an important part of the story,”  Jeffrey Kleintop , the chief market strategist at LPL Financial Corp. in
 Boston , said in a telephone interview. The firm manages about
$316 billion. “It’s the big growth story of the world. Optimism
there is a big part of what helps drive the market.”  China’s import growth slowed to a two-year low in December,
fueling bets on monetary easing. Imports rose 11.8 percent from
a year before, less than all 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists, a government report showed in Beijing.  Earnings Season  Investors also watched fourth-quarter results. Alcoa, the
biggest U.S. aluminum producer and first company in the Dow to
report earnings, posted fourth-quarter sales that rose 6 percent
to $5.99 billion, topping the $5.7 billion estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. Its shares added 7 percent to $9.80.  S&P 500  companies, which beat estimates in the previous 11
quarters, are forecast to report a 4.6 percent increase in per-
share profit during the September-December period, according to
projections compiled by Bloomberg, which would mark the slowest
growth in more than two years.  “Even though there were some disappointments, the
underlying trend in earnings was still strong,” Kleintop said.
“There was some growth there, not as strong as it has been in
the recent past, but suggesting we’ll get a decent up-year in
stocks.”  Improving Economy  The S&P 500 has advanced this year amid improving economic
reports after closing virtually unchanged in 2011. The  U.S.
Citigroup Economic Surprise Index (CESIUSD) , a gauge of how much reports
are exceeding or missing economists’ estimates, rose to a 10-
month high on Jan. 6.  Stocks ended their four-day winning streak on the last day
of the week as France and Austria were stripped of its top
credit rating by S&P and banks suspended talks with  Greece  over
debt restructuring, the first blows this year to efforts aimed
at stemming  Europe ’s fiscal turmoil.  Germany , Europe’s biggest
economy, retained its AAA rating in a review of euro-area
countries’ credit grades by S&P.  Spain and Italy were also downgraded, while  Finland , the
Netherlands and Luxembourg also kept their AAA ratings. While
the ratings actions weren’t confirmed by S&P until after close
of U.S. exchanges, European officials had revealed some of them
during the trading session.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  fell 2.5 percent on Jan. 13, paring
gains for the week, after the bank reported a 23 percent  drop in
profit  on lower investment-banking fees and revenue from trading
stocks and bonds. The largest  U.S. bank  by assets rose 1.6
percent to $35.92 during for the week.  Cyclicals Lead  Investors purchased stocks of companies most tied to
economic growth, with raw-material producers rallying 3.9
percent for the biggest advance out of  10 groups  in the S&P 500.
Financial companies had the second-biggest gain, increasing 3.1
percent, while industrials rose 2.6 percent. The Morgan Stanley
Cyclical Index gained 3.8 percent and reached the highest level
since August during the week.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest construction and mining-
equipment maker, increased 7 percent to $102.48, leading gains
in the Dow.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-largest bank by
assets, rose 7 percent to $6.61.  “We think everybody got caught too defensive at the end of
last year, meaning they need to start adding cyclicals and
financials,” Thomas Lee, the chief U.S. equity strategist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  in  New York , said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” on Jan. 12. “That’s
explaining why this market got this bid here.”  Sears Rallies  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  rallied 15 percent, the second-biggest
gain in the S&P 500, to $33.56. Chairman  Edward Lampert , who
controls the company along with his hedge fund, raised his
personal stake in the retailer, according to regulatory filings.  BorgWarner Inc. (BWA)  climbed 13 percent, the biggest weekly gain
in almost a year, to $73.70. The maker of turbochargers forecast
profit this year will be $5.35 to $5.65 a share. That beat the
$5.17 average estimate of 19 analysts tracked by Bloomberg.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  rose 13 percent to $39.92. Solar stocks
surged after the China National Energy Administration said it
had plans to develop 3 gigawatts of solar capacity in 2012 and
Vishal Shah, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said the companies
may rally on “encouraging” polysilicon pricing data over the
next month.  Energy  shares  slipped 1.2 percent collectively for the
biggest decline among 10 industries in the S&P 500 as oil fell
to a three-week low of $98.70 a barrel after European officials
said an embargo of Iranian crude imports may be postponed for
six months. Chevron Corp. lost 2.1 percent to $106.09 after
reporting fourth-quarter profit was “significantly below”
third-quarter results because of shrinking fuel production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  