-- American Consumers’ Confidence Gains in Sign Spending May Hold Up: Economy
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-01-13T21:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/u-s-consumer-confidence-gains-more-than-forecast-to-74-in-michigan-index.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
increased more than forecast in January, reaching its highest
level in eight months on signs the labor market is improving.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of  consumer sentiment  climbed to 74 from 69.9 at the end
of December. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
called for 71.5. The measure has increased 9.9 points in the
last two months, the biggest such gain since April-May 2009.  The lowest  jobless rate  in almost three years and cheaper
gasoline prices since mid-2011 are giving Americans reason to be
more upbeat. While the pickup in optimism will probably help
sustain household purchases, limited wage gains and falling real
estate values may temper the  consumer spending  that accelerated
in the fourth quarter.  “You get better job growth, people hear about it and you
get better sentiment and better spending,” said  Maury Harris ,
chief economist at UBS Securities LLC in New York, whose team
was the most accurate in forecasting the  U.S. economy  in the two
years through September. Purchases early in 2012 “may not be
quite as strong as the fourth quarter, but I still think you
have an acceptable year in consumer spending,” he said.  Estimates of the 68 economists in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 68.5 to 77. The gauge averaged 89 in the five years
leading to the last recession.  Stocks fell as euro-region governments braced for credit
downgrades and as JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s profit slumped 23
percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.5 percent to
1,289.09 at the close in  New York .  Wider Trade Deficit  Separate figures today showed the  U.S. trade deficit 
widened more than forecast in November as exports dropped and
imports of crude oil and automobiles increased. The gap grew
10.4 percent to  $47.8 billion , the widest since June, the
Commerce Department said.  “Domestic demand is a bit stronger than external demand as
global growth weakens,” said Jeremy Lawson, a senior U.S.
economist at BNP Paribas in New York. “The question is whether
U.S. consumption can be maintained in the first part of the year
post-Christmas. There are a lot of headwinds.”  Growing demand from outside the euro area may be helping
stabilize the region’s economy, other data today showed. Exports
from the euro area rose a seasonally adjusted 3.9 percent in
November from the prior month, led by  France  and the
Netherlands, the European Union’s statistics office said in
Luxembourg. The gain helped the monthly  trade surplus  swell to
the highest level since July 2004.  In  Asia , the Bank of  Korea  held off from raising borrowing
costs for the seventh straight month, highlighting growing risks
to its economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis even as a weaker won
threatens to fuel inflation.  Consumer Outlook  The Michigan survey’s index of  consumer expectations  for
six months from now, which more closely projects the direction
of U.S. household spending, rose to 68.4 this month, the highest
since May, from 63.6 in December.  The index of  current conditions , which reflects Americans’
perceptions of their financial situation and whether they
consider it a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
increased to 82.6, the highest since February, from 79.6.  The labor market is showing signs of improving. The
 unemployment rate  in December fell to 8.5 percent, the lowest
since February 2009, and the economy generated 200,000 jobs,
double the prior month, the Labor Department said on Jan. 6.  While gasoline prices have risen in recent weeks, they’ve
fallen since reaching a high last year of $3.99 a gallon in May.
Regular  unleaded gasoline  was $3.39 a gallon yesterday,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest automobile association.  Other Measures  Today’s sentiment figures mirror other measures. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index in the period ended Jan. 8
reached its highest level in six months. The Conference Board’s
confidence gauge increased in December to the highest level
since April.  The U.S. economic expansion was improving at the end of
2011 across most of the country while housing remained stagnant,
the  Federal Reserve  said this week.  The economy “expanded at a modest to moderate pace” from
late November through the end of December on increased holiday
retail sales, demand for services and oil and gas extraction,
the Fed said in its Beige Book survey released Jan. 11 in
Washington. At the same time, the housing market remained
“sluggish.”  Merchants like  Williams-Sonoma Inc (WSM) . cut prices during the
most important shopping season of the year amid concern stagnant
wages and lower property values would hold customers back.  Chief Executive Officer Laura Alber said Williams-Sonoma
faced “greater challenges” because of discounting on
nationally branded products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  