-- U.S. Stocks Fall Amid Europe Downgrade Concern as JPMorgan Drops
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-01-13T22:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/u-s-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-jpmorgan-slips-before-results.html
U.S. stocks retreated, snapping a
four-day rally for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as euro-
region governments braced for credit downgrades by S&P and after
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s profit slumped 23 percent.  After the market close, S&P said  France  was downgraded,
while  Germany  had its  credit rating  affirmed. All 10 groups in
the S&P 500 fell as financial, industrial and technology
measures declined at least 0.7 percent. JPMorgan, the largest
U.S.  bank  by assets, dropped 2.5 percent.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  lost more than 1.3 percent.  Eastman
Kodak Co. (EK)  tumbled 23 percent as it is said to be in talks with
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  to provide bankruptcy financing.  The S&P 500 slid 0.5 percent to 1,289.09 as of 4 p.m.  New
York  time, paring a drop of as much as 1.4 percent. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  slid 48.96 points, or 0.4 percent, to
12,422.06. The market will be closed on Jan. 16 for a holiday.  “People are keeping a very careful eye on Europe and they
are nervous with earnings,”  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage $23.4
billion at Security Global Investors in Irvington, New York,
said in a telephone interview. “Most people expected France to
be downgraded. It’s critical that any downgrades in Europe do
not involve Germany,” he said. In the U.S.,  “JPMorgan (JPM) ’s
earnings were OK, but the  quality  is not good.”  Germany, Belgium, Estonia, Finland, Ireland, Luxembourg and
the Netherlands had their ratings affirmed by S&P as France lost
its AAA rating. France was cut to AA+ and the rating has a
negative outlook, S&P said in a statement. Cyprus, Italy,
Portugal and Spain were cut by two notches S&P said. The long-
term ratings on Austria, Malta, Slovakia and Slovenia were cut
one notch.  ‘Size and Scope’  European leaders’ attempts to address economic woes hasn’t
“produced a breakthrough of sufficient size and scope to fully
address the Eurozone’s financial problems,” S&P said. The
region continues to face tightening credit conditions among
other problems, S&P said.  Concern about potential downgrades overshadowed data
showing that confidence among U.S. consumers rose more than
forecast in January to the highest level in eight months, a sign
household spending may hold up early this year. Separate figures
showed that the U.S.  trade deficit  widened more than forecast in
November as American exports declined and companies stepped up
imports of crude oil and automobiles.  The  S&P 500  rose 0.9 percent since Jan. 6, capping the
second straight  week  of gains, amid lower borrowing costs at
auctions in Europe. Investors also watched fourth-quarter
results.  S&P 500  companies, which beat estimates in the previous
11 quarters, are forecast to report a 4.6 percent increase in
per-share profit during the September-December period, according
to projections compiled by Bloomberg.  On the Sidelines  Financial companies slumped 0.8 percent, the most among 10
groups in the S&P 500. JPMorgan dropped 2.5 percent to $35.92.
Investment-banking revenue declined 30 percent to $4.36 billion
from a year earlier as many clients stayed on the sidelines on
concern the European debt crisis would lead to a global economic
slowdown.  “Financials would have to participate for the market to do
well,” James Dunigan, who helps oversee $104 billion as chief
investment officer in Philadelphia for PNC Wealth Management,
said in a telephone interview. “We’ll look to see whether all
that disruption in Europe had an effect in overall earnings
reports. If that bleeds over into our export numbers, it may
have an impact on the earnings side.”  Banks Tumble  Bank of America  lost 2.7 percent to $6.61, while  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  retreated 3.2 percent to $16.63. Citigroup fell 2.7
percent to $30.74. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. slid 2.2 percent to
$98.96.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index retreated 1.1 percent
amid concern about global economic growth. The Dow Jones
Transportation Average dropped 0.6 percent. Intel, the world’s
biggest chipmaker, declined 2.4 percent to $25.14. Alcoa slumped
1.3 percent to $9.80.  Kodak tumbled 23 percent to 52 cents. The imaging company
may seek protection from  creditors  within weeks and then hold an
auction to sell its patent portfolio, said three people familiar
with the matter, who asked not to be identified because the
talks are private. Kodak may seek about $1 billion in so-called
debtor-in-possession financing, though terms may change, two
people said.  Weaker Coal Market  Patriot Coal Corp. (PCX)  declined 13 percent to $7.87. The U.S.
mining company said it will idle production in West Virginia
because of a weaker market for coal used by steelmakers. Other
coal producers fell. Alpha Natural Resources Inc. dropped 10
percent, the most in the S&P 500, to $20.19.  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) 
retreated 9.8 percent to $14.13.  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  lost 2.5 percent to $12.16. The
independent, San Francisco-based brokerage was downgraded to
“market perform” from “outperform” at Wells Fargo & Co.  BankUnited Inc (BKU) . rallied 5.8 percent to $24.48 as it is
exploring a sale one year after its private-equity owners took
the lender public, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter. BankUnited is working with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
discussions are private. The company could still decide against
a sale.  Stock investors shouldn’t get used to the relative calm
that markets are now showing, according to  Andrew Garthwaite , a
global equity strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG.  ‘Abnormally Sensitive’  Volatility is likely to rise this year, Garthwaite wrote
yesterday in a report. He attributed the outlook to excessive
borrowing in developed economies, which ensures that investors
will be “abnormally sensitive” to shifts in economic growth
and government policy, he added.  “Sentiment in the market has clearly changed over the past
three months,” wrote Garthwaite, who is based in  London .  Even so, developed-country debt is still $8 trillion too
high, the report said. Garthwaite came up with that estimate by
comparing the borrowing relative to gross domestic product with
a figure based on the debt-to-GDP ratio’s trend during the past
three decades.  The need to reduce this burden creates “a considerable
amount of tail risk,” or potential for unlikely stock-market
outcomes, the report said. He mentioned 11 possible surprises
for this year. One was a breakup of the euro region, which he
estimated would send the  S&P 500  falling to 800, or 38 percent
less than yesterday’s close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  