-- U.S. Postal Service Sued for Allegedly Blocking Probe of Campaign Mailings
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-01-13T01:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/u-s-postal-service-sued-for-allegedly-blocking-probe-of-campaign-mailings.html
The U.S. Postal Service was accused
by a political watchdog group of improperly blocking a freedom-
of-information request seeking the source of negative campaign
mailings in a  California  school-board recall election.  In a lawsuit filed today in federal court in  Sacramento ,
California, the California Fair Political Practices Commission
claimed the Postal Service improperly blocked its probe of
William Eisen, a former member of the Manhattan Beach Unified
School Board.  The commission, which investigates violations of the 1974
Political Reform Act and regulates campaign spending, was
investigating whether Eisen violated the law by not revealing
himself as the source of the campaign mailings.  Opposing his recall in a November 2008 election, Eisen
“falsely indicated that a taxpayers’ association and regional
political club were responsible for the mailers,” according to
the commission’s complaint. He “rented and controlled post
office boxes and sent out the mailings using his bulk mail
account from the United States  Postal Service ,” according to
the complaint.  The commission asked the Postal Service for details about
the mailings to determine whether they violated the law. The
Postal Service blocked those requests, according to the
commission, which is asking the court to force it to produce the
records.  “Their refusal to provide this simple information will
result in shutting down the enforcement of all similar laws in
every state so we feel compelled to take action,” Ann Ravel, the
chair of the commission, said in an e-mailed statement.  Dave Partenheimer, a spokesman for the Postal Service,
didn’t immediately return a call after business hours seeking
comment on the suit.  Eisen didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The case is Fair Political Practices Commission v. U.S.
Postal Service, 12-00093, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  