-- Hungarian Bonds Drop Most in Week as IMF Demands ‘Tangible Steps’ on Debt
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-01-13T15:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/hungary-bonds-drop-most-in-week-as-imf-demands-tangible-steps-.html
Hungary ’s bonds fell the most in
more than a week and the forint dropped after the  International
Monetary Fund  said the country needs to take “tangible steps”
on resolving policy issues before aid talks can be resumed.  The currency depreciated 0.9 percent to 310.7 per euro by
4:50 p.m. in Budapest, paring its weekly gain to 1.2 percent.
The government’s  10-year bonds  slumped, lifting yields 12 basis
points to 9.673 percent, the biggest rise since Jan. 4.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday
Hungary needs to show “strong commitment to engage on all
policy issues that are relevant to macroeconomic stability.”
The IMF and the European Union suspended talks last month on
concern central bank laws violate monetary-policy independence.
There would be “no preconditions during negotiations” on
Hungary’s part and the country was open to “any kind” of
 credit line , Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said on Jan. 8.  “The views have not converged substantially and a deal,
though we expect it to be reached, may lie at the end of a rocky
road,”  Akos Kuti , head of research at Budapest-based broker
Equilor Befektetesi Zrt., wrote in an e-mailed report. The
market “euphoria” this week over the prospect of a deal had
been “unjustified,” analysts including Kuti wrote.  Hungarian negotiator Tamas Fellegi told reporters at the
IMF yesterday that he discussed with Lagarde and the IMF staff
ways to help identify “the critical issues” for aid talks to
begin “as soon as possible.” No indication was given of the
size of the potential aid package, Fellegi said.  European Downgrades  The forint and Hungarian bonds extended losses today as
reports that several European countries may face imminent credit
downgrades by  Standard & Poor’s  hit demand for risk.  Fitch Ratings  on Jan. 6 followed Moody’s Investors Service
and S&P in downgrading Hungary’s sovereign-credit grade to junk.
Hungary needs to secure a bailout from the IMF in the first half
to restore market confidence, Paul Rawkins, head of the emerging
Europe sovereign-ratings group at Fitch, said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television this week.  “Before the fund can determine when and whether to start
negotiations for a stand-by arrangement, it will need to see
tangible steps,” Lagarde said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement after meeting Hungary’s envoy. “Support of the
European authorities and institutions would also be critical for
successful discussions of a new program.”  Bank Independence  The independence of the Hungarian central bank is a
“prerequisite” for resuming aid talks, European Commission
spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told reporters in Brussels today. The
regulation in effect makes it possible to expand the rate-
setting Monetary Council and strips central bank President
Andras Simor of his right to name deputies.  Fellegi is scheduled to discuss the EU’s concerns on Jan.
20 with Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn .  Hungary accepts some of the EU’s criticism of its central
bank law, while the two sides remain far apart on other aspects
of the legislation, Orban told MR1 state radio today.  “It is quite possible that Hungary is just playing along
to temporarily pacify investors and improve its debt rollover
prospect, as seen by yesterday’s auction,” Ilan Solot, a
London-based emerging-market currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & co., wrote in e-mailed comments.  The government yesterday sold 44 billion forint ($181
million) of bonds, 11 billion forint more than targeted, at an
auction. The yield on the securities due in 2022 was 9.38
percent, compared with 9.70 percent at the last sale Dec. 29,
the first time since September that borrowing costs decreased
for that maturity.  ‘Drastic’ Overhaul  Hungary can’t sustain paying yields around 10 percent on
government debt and needs an aid package that supports market
financing, Arpad Kovacs, chairman of the country’s Fiscal
Council, designed to be an independent watchdog, said today in
an interview with Budapest-based TV2.  Hungary needs a “drastic” overhaul of its economic policy
and engage foreign investors to help save the economy from a
“negative spiral” caused by high bond yields, Zsigmond Jarai,
head of the central bank’s Supervisory Board, said in an
interview with Vilaggazdasag published today. Jarai was Kovacs’s
predecessor at the helm of the Fiscal Council before he resigned
from that position this week.  The government needs to change the tax system, modify the
central bank law and “let the Magyar Nemzeti Bank work,”
Jarai, a former president of the bank and a former finance
minister, told the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  