-- Premafin Surge After Insurer Unipol Makes Takeover Bid for Ligresti Firm
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-01-13T10:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/unipol-expresses-interest-in-merger-with-premafin-finanziaria-fondiaria.html
Premafin (PF)  Finanziaria SpA, the
controlling investor in  Italy ’s second-biggest insurer,
Fondiaria-SAI SpA, surged after it received a takeover offer.  Unipol Gruppo Finanziario SpA (UNI) , Italy’s No. 3 insurer, said
today it plans a merger with three rivals including Premafin, to
help guarantee their solvency. Shares of the targets rose.
Premafin gained as much as 21 percent to 35.1 cents, valuing the
company at 142 million euros ($182 million).  Unipol plans to purchase 51.3 percent of Premafin at 36.56
euro cents per share, Unipol said in a stock-exchange statement
today. The offer for the stake, held by the Ligresti family,
will be followed by a tender offer for the rest of Premafin.
Premafin controls  Fondiaria (FSA) , Italy’s No. 2 insurer, which in
turn controls  Milano Assicurazioni SpA. (MI)  Under the plan, Unipol
would help recapitalize Premafin and Fondiaria, which already is
proposing a share sale. Shares of Fondiaria rose as much as 16
percent and Milano Assicurazioni gained 10 percent.  Shares of Unipol rose as much as 7.5 percent in Milan
before declining 2 percent at 20.5 cents as of 11:45 a.m.,
valuing the business at 612 million euros.  “The integration would take place with a view to safeguard
the current and future solvency of Premafin and Fondiaria,”
Unipol said in the statement.  Lenders to the insurers probably will gain the most from
the agreement, while the smaller investors may see their stakes
diluted, Intermonte SIM analysts wrote in a note to clients
today. Unipol may need to inject further capital in Fondiaria
and sell some non-life premium business to curtail a dominant
position that would result through the merger, Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux analysts wrote in a separate note.  Fondiaria expects a net loss in 2011 of about 925 million
euros and its solvency ratio is about 90 percent, below the
regulator’s minimum requirement. Chief Executive Officer
Emanuele Erbetta also is selling assets and real estate to boost
capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  