-- Valuation Not Main Short Driver, Axiom’s Dalton Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-13T19:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/valuation-not-main-short-driver-axiom-s-dalton-says-tom-keene.html
Investors looking to take short
positions on equities this year must avoid using valuation as a
key basis, said Axiom Capital Management Inc.’s Liam Dalton.  One of the biggest mistakes stockholders make is “just
guessing at valuation being their primary driver,” Dalton,
chief executive officer at Axiom in  New York , said today in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and
Ken Prewitt. “It is a terrible timing instrument for shorts.”  Shorts should look first for structurally flawed companies
that have begun to “underperform or act out of the norm,” said
Dalton, whose firm manages about $1.8 billion. They can also
find companies where something may happen internally that will
“jolt expectations back into where they should be,” he said. A
short is a bet an asset will drop.  Profit attribution was much higher on the short side of the
market last year in which macro influences, mostly from Europe,
led to high volatility, said Dalton, who said earnings that fail
to meet analysts’ estimates will keep stock volatility high.  “We are getting these negative earnings revisions on an
individual company basis,” he said. “It creates more
opportunity.”  The benchmark measure of U.S. stock options rose to the
 highest level  in more than a week as JPMorgan Chase & Co.
reported a 23 percent drop in profit and France’s Finance
Minister  Francois Baroin  said the nation will lose its top
credit rating from  Standard & Poor’s .  The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX) , or
VIX, surged 7.1 percent to 21.93 today after touching 22.43, the
highest level since Jan. 5. The index measures the cost of using
options as insurance against drops in the  S&P 500 Index , which
slid 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  