-- Virginia’s Primary Ballot Rules Are Unlawful, Perry Tells Court
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   B o n n i e   V .   W i n s t o n
-- 2012-01-13T18:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/virginia-s-primary-ballot-rules-are-unconstitutional-perry-tells-court.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and three
other Republican presidential candidates asked a federal judge
to put them on  Virginia ’s primary ballot even though they failed
to collect the 10,000 valid signatures demanded by the state.  U.S. District Judge John A. Gibney Jr. in Richmond today
heard arguments from the GOP candidates who claim Virginia’s
primary rules violate their constitutional rights. Gibney, who
on Jan. 9 ordered the state to refrain from sending out absentee
ballots or printing regular ones while he considers the request,
said earlier he’ll rule today on whether to maintain the order.  “I’ve not seen an argument from the state that there’s a
compelling interest” for Virginia’s voting regulations, Joseph
Nixon, a lawyer for Perry, told Gibney.  Whatever the courts rule about Virginia, where former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas are the only Republicans on the ballot, may have
little influence on the course of this year’s presidential
primary race. After winning Iowa and  New Hampshire , Romney is
ahead in public opinion surveys in  South Carolina , which holds
its primary on Jan. 21, and in Florida, which has a Jan. 31
contest.  Romney victories in both states are likely to clear the
field, except for Paul, well before Virginia comes up on the
presidential primary calendar on March 6.  Perry’s lawsuit, filed Dec. 27, sought a temporary order to
halt state officials from printing the ballots, or to require
them to include his name.  Constitutional Rights  He claimed his constitutional rights were violated by the
state’s requirement that anyone circulating a petition for a
candidate be eligible to vote in Virginia. He also argued that
changes to ballot access made in May weren’t cleared under the
Voting Rights Act and challenged the state’s interpretation of
the signature rules.  Republican candidates  Rick Santorum ,  Newt Gingrich  and  Jon Huntsman , who joined the suit, were also barred from the primary
because of their failure to get enough signatures from qualified
Virginia voters. They, with Perry, argued that Virginia’s rule
requiring petition circulators to be eligible Virginia voters
violates “freedoms of speech and association protected by the
First and Fourteenth Amendments” of the U.S. Constitution.  Gibney’s ruling may be appealed to the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Richmond.  Emergency Appeal  Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli already made
an emergency appeal of Gibney’s Jan. 9 ruling, saying that
materials for the primary needed to go to the printer
immediately to meet legal deadlines for getting ballots to
absentee and overseas voters. The appeals court hasn’t ruled on
the request.  Cuccinelli said in the filing that Perry “lacks standing
to assert an injury arising from the inability to circulate his
own petitions because there is no averment that he stood ready,
willing and able to circulate his own petitions” and no basis
for concluding that he would have collected enough valid
signatures.  During today’s hearing, campaign advisers to the candidates
testified that Virginia’s ballot requirements are a burdensome
and expensive.  Joe Allbaugh, a former George W. Bush administration
official who is now senior adviser to the Perry campaign, told
Gibney the campaign will spend about $91,000 to get on primary
ballots nationally. Virginia accounts for about $45,000 of that
sum, he said.  Petition Signatures  Perry submitted “over 6,000 petition signatures” deemed
valid by state officials, according to a court filing by the
 Texas  governor.  While former House Speaker Gingrich submitted 11,050
signatures to the Virginia State Board of Elections, less than
10,000 were verified as registered voters, according to a filing
by the candidates.  Santorum submitted more than 8,000 signatures. Huntsman
didn’t file papers declaring his candidacy in Virginia because
he couldn’t meet the signature requirement, according to the
filing.  If Perry’s lawsuit fails, Paul will have an opportunity in
Virginia to see the anti-Romney vote consolidate around his
candidacy, which would likely give him a share of the state’s 49
convention delegates.  Paul has vowed to remain in the race until the end as he
did in the 2008 primary. His campaign is unique in that he has a
base of libertarian supporters who have shown an ability to
raise money quickly and in large sums. After putting out a call
for contributions on Dec. 16, the Texas doctor collected
$4 million in a day.  Reassess Campaign  Perry, who came in fifth in  Iowa  and sixth in New
Hampshire, has said he will reassess his campaign after the
South Carolina contest.  An Insider Advantage poll released Jan. 11 showed Romney
ahead in South Carolina with 23 percent, Gingrich in second with
21 percent, former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum at 14
percent, Paul at 20 percent, and Perry with 5 percent support.  Santorum, who came in second in Iowa only to fall to fifth
in New Hampshire, is also likely to take stock of his candidacy
if he doesn’t perform well in the Palmetto State.  Gingrich today opened an office in  Orlando , Florida and
intends to begin airing advertisements there after the South
Carolina primary, said Jose Mallea, the campaign’s  Florida 
director.  The case is Perry v. Judd, 3:11-cv-00856, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond). The appeal is
Perry v. Judd, 12-1042, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Bonnie V.  Winston in Richmond, Virginia, at 
 bvwinston@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  