-- Walgreen, Par Accused of Plot to Overcharge
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-01-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/walgreen-accused-in-suit-of-plotting-with-par-to-overcharge-for-generics.html
Walgreen Co., the biggest U.S.
drugstore chain, and generic drugmaker  Par Pharmaceutical Cos. (PRX) 
were accused in a lawsuit of swapping prescription-drug tablets
for more expensive capsules to boost profits.  “Walgreen’s and Par engaged in at least two widespread
schemes to overcharge insurance companies, self-insured
employers and union health and welfare funds,” the United Food
& Commercial Workers Unions & Employers Midwest Health Benefits
Fund said in a complaint filed Jan. 11 in federal court in
 Chicago .  The drugs involved included generic versions of Zantac and
Prozac, according to the complaint. The fund and other third-
party payers paid millions of dollars more for the capsules than
they would have for the correctly prescribed tablets, said the
fund, which is seeking to sue on behalf of all third-party
payers in the U.S. from 2001 to 2006.  The companies’ actions violated federal racketeering laws,
according to the complaint. The fund is asking for unspecified
cash damages.  Vivika Panagiotakakos, a spokeswoman for Deerfield,
Illinois-based Walgreen, declined to comment on the filing.  In 2008, Walgreen agreed to pay $35 million to settle
claims by the U.S. and 42 states that it was overcharging state
Medicaid programs for ranitidine -- a generic form of the
antacid Zantac -- and for fluoxetine, a generic form of the
antidepressant Prozac.  Whistle-Blower Lawsuit  The Chicago case relies in part on that accord, which ended
a 2003 whistle-blower lawsuit as well a lawsuit filed against
the drugmaker in 2006.  The media relations department of  Woodcliff Lake , New
Jersey-based Par didn’t immediately reply to an e-mailed request
for comment on the suit after regular business hours yesterday.  The case is United Food and Commercial Workers Unions and
Employers Midwest Health Benefits Fund v.  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , 12-
cv-00204, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  