-- Wall Street Justice System Is a Kangaroo Court: William D. Cohan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-01-13T00:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/wall-street-s-justice-is-a-kangaroo-court-commentary-by-william-d-cohan.html
There has been a fair amount written
recently about various institutional cartels that are thriving
in the U.S. despite antitrust laws designed to prevent their
existence.  My  previous column  compared  Wall Street ’s few remaining
investment banks to a cartel, with explicit pricing power over
its hundreds of thousands of customers, an advantage that will
only grow greater as the economy improves and the number of
thriving banks continues to diminish.  Likewise,  Joe Nocera , a columnist for the New York Times,
has been on a crusade about the powerful grip the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association  exerts on college sports. Nocera
has argued eloquently -- if not entirely persuasively -- that
college athletes should be paid to play. On Jan. 6, Nocera
 dubbed  the NCAA’s system of justice a “Star Chamber” and
shared the sad story of how Devon Ramsay, a fullback on the
University of  North Carolina ’s football team, suffered
needlessly from NCAA-imposed penalties.  Well, it turns out, Wall Street has its own version of a
Star Chamber, and it is every bit as unfair and debilitating as
the NCAA’s.  Price of Admission  Probably unbeknownst to the millions of people who interact
with Wall Street every day -- either as brokerage customers or
as employees of Wall Street firms -- there is a price of
admission to this world tucked deep inside the boilerplate
documents that one must sign to open an account or to get hired.
This catch is a nonnegotiable agreement for when disputes arise,
say, about a bonus promised but not paid, or about a rogue
broker who sticks his client’s money in a synthetic
collateralized debt obligation that goes bust. Under the deal,
the only venue to litigate the claim is a mediation or
arbitration process overseen and administered by the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street’s powerful self-
regulatory organization.  Finra oversees some 4,460 brokerage firms and 630,000
registered representatives, mostly brokers, traders and bankers.
By signing the initial agreements -- and if you don’t, you can
forget about working on Wall Street or having a brokerage
account with a Wall Street firm -- you agree not to pursue any
future monetary claim against Wall Street in the U.S. court
system.  This requirement, which affects millions of people, may be
the largest ongoing abdication of legal rights in America today.
And there is not even the slightest effort being made to change
this injustice, although there certainly should be.  So how does arbitration work? Once a grievance has been
filed with Finra, generally speaking, a three-member panel is
convened in downtown  Manhattan  or other selected cities to hear
the facts and circumstances around the dispute over a period of
months. Unlike in a court setting, the hearing is not continuous
until completion, but proceeds in fits and starts and can take
longer than a year to be resolved.  The arbitrators are often retired Wall Street brokers --
although anyone can become one with Finra’s approval. They are
paid an “honorarium” that can run into thousands of dollars
per case. (No one is getting rich being a Finra arbitrator.)  Of course, most of Finra’s almost $1 billion in annual
 revenue  comes from fees paid by its Wall Street members related
to regulatory, contract and dispute-resolution matters. In
brief, Finra exists for the benefit of Wall Street and to
advance Wall Street’s complex agenda -- one component of which
is disposing of nasty financial claims against it as painlessly
as possible.  Impartial in Theory  The arbitration process is designed to resolve disputes in
a theoretically impartial way, as long as those forced into the
process -- as I was once, almost a decade ago -- recognize that
normal rules of evidence and procedure that exist in a courtroom
are not allowed and that the arbitrator’s judgment is final and
binding (except in highly unusual circumstances).  All this is a point of pride to Finra.  “Arbitration of disputes with broker/dealers has long been
used as an alternative to the courts because it is devised as a
prompt and inexpensive means of resolving complicated issues,”
its website  says . “Most importantly, perhaps, is the fact that
an arbitration award is final and binding, subject to review by
a court only on a very limited basis. Parties should recognize,
too, that in choosing arbitration as a means of resolving a
dispute, they generally give up their right to pursue the matter
through the courts.”  Left unsaid is that monetary disputes generally must be
arbitrated, leaving few other matters -- such as sexual or age
discrimination -- to be resolved by the court system.  So, say you bring a complaint, what are the odds of
success? From January through November 2011, a total of  4,359
cases  came before Finra’s arbitrators, down from 6,601 in 2009.
On average these arbitrations, if there was an actual hearing,
took almost 16 months to resolve. Of the 629 cases of broker
malfeasance arbitrated in 2011, Finra says 279, or 44 percent,
resulted in “monetary or non-monetary recovery for the
investor.” (It is not at all clear what a “non-monetary
recovery” is.)  According to Jeffrey Liddle, a New York lawyer who
represents plaintiffs in their battles against Wall Street, the
success rate for former Wall Street employees in arbitration
against their firms has been declining in recent years, with
arbitrators now awarding a recovery in only about 37 percent of
cases. Of those who win, says Liddle, arbitrators only award
around 13 percent of the damages sought. The majority of the
cases, he says, end in no recovery whatsoever for the
plaintiff.  (Meanwhile, he noted, when a member firm sues an
employee -- for, say, recovery of a loan made to finance a stake
in an in-house private-equity fund, arbitrators have been
rewarding more than 100 percent of the money sought, by
including legal fees and overdue interest.)  Few Americans today are going to shed a tear for fired Wall
Street bankers and traders. But it just isn’t right that the
only way the millions of people who work at banks or do business
with them can resolve their disputes is through a kangaroo
arbitration system overseen by Wall Street itself.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 