-- Westlake Chemical Makes Unsolicited $1.03 Billion Offer for Georgia Gulf
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-01-13T17:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/westlake-chemical-makes-unsolicited-1-03-billion-offer-for-georgia-gulf.html
Westlake Chemical Corp. (WLK) , the U.S.
plastics maker controlled by the Chao family, made a $1.03
billion unsolicited offer for  Georgia Gulf Corp. (GGC)  to expand into
vinyl construction products such as siding and window frames.  The $30-a-share bid isn’t subject to any financing
condition, Houston-based Westlake said today in a statement. The
offer is 55 percent above Georgia Gulf’s 20-day trading average
prior to today. Westlake said it made its initial proposal on
Sept. 20 and hasn’t been able to begin a “meaningful dialogue”
despite “numerous attempts to engage” with Atlanta-based
Georgia Gulf.  “We urge the Georgia Gulf board to act in the best
interests of its shareholders by meeting with us to seriously
discuss our compelling proposal,” Westlake Chief Executive
Officer Albert Chao said in the statement.  Chao, whose family owns  69 percent  of Westlake, is seeking
to integrate his resin and pipe production with Georgia Gulf’s
chemicals and vinyl product lines. Westlake is benefiting from
declining prices for natural gas, used as a raw material for its
plastics and other chemicals. Georgia Gulf’s earnings have been
hurt by weak construction demand for its building products.  “The deal makes strategic sense,”  Hassan Ahmed , a New
York-based analyst at Alembic Global Advisors, said today in a
telephone interview. “The product overlap is fabulous.”  “Georgia Gulf is aware of the offer and will respond in
due course,” Alan Chapple, a company spokesman, said by
telephone. He declined to comment further.  Housing Improvement  Georgia Gulf jumped 35 percent to $33.09 as of 12:24 p.m.
in  New York . Westlake gained 0.9 percent to $51.69. Westlake
said it already acquired 4.8 percent of Georgia Gulf.  Westlake’s offer values Georgia Gulf at 6.4 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The median Ebitda multiple in 17
comparable deals was 8.8, the data show.  Georgia Gulf,  North America ’s largest maker of vinyl
construction products, narrowly averted bankruptcy when the
housing slump cut demand. Bondholders agreed in July 2009 to
exchange 92 percent of company notes for new equity while
existing shareholders were diluted with a  1-for-25  reverse stock
split.  Westlake’s offer may be well-timed for an improvement in
the U.S. housing market, Ahmed said. Lennar Corp., the country’s
third-largest homebuilder, said Jan. 11 it had a 20 percent jump
in new orders during the fourth quarter.  Chlorine Expansion  “If we are coming out of a trough, probably this is a good
time to be betting on some kind of housing recovery,” Ahmed
said.  The acquisition would mean Westlake doesn’t need to pursue
a planned $300 million expansion of chlorine and caustic soda
production because Georgia Gulf has 1 billion pounds of annual
capacity, Ahmed said. He  rates  Westlake “overweight” and
doesn’t rate Georgia Gulf.  Westlake, which was founded in 1986, had $758.9 million of
cash and $764.5 million of long-term  debt  as of Sept. 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Georgia Gulf had $45.3
million of cash and $896.3 million in long-term liabilities, the
data show.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is Georgia Gulf’s largest stockholder
with an 18 percent stake as of Sept. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Westlake’s financial advisers are Deutsche Bank AG and
Morgan Stanley and its legal advisers are  Vinson & Elkins LLP 
and Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell LLP.  The value of the offer is calculated based on the 34.2
million shares of Georgia Gulf that are outstanding according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  