-- Western Allies Pressure Iran to Abandon Threats to Close Strait of Hormuz
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-01-13T23:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/western-allies-pressure-iran-to-abandon-threats-to-close-strait-of-hormuz.html
U.S. officials and allies turned up
the pressure on  Iran  to abandon its threats to close the Strait
of Hormuz in retaliation for economic sanctions.  British Prime Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday that he
and other members of the international community are determined
to ensure that the mouth of the  Persian Gulf  remains open to
shipping.  “We are now looking at this whole issue of having an
embargo on Iranian oil to get that regime to think again,”
Cameron told Al Arabiya television in Riyadh,  Saudi Arabia ,
where he held talks with  King Abdullah . “It is in the interests
of the whole world that those straits are open, and I’m sure if
there was any threat to close them the world would come together
and make sure they stayed open.”  The Obama administration has delivered that message to
Iran’s supreme leader,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , privately as well
as publicly, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  The messages from the U.S. and allies were directed at Iran
and also at traders, said Kenneth Pollack, who heads the Saban
Center for Middle East Policy at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington. The Iranians sought to use threats to close the
Strait to roil oil markets and hurt the U.S. economically, he
said in a telephone interview.  “This was as much about calming the oil markets as it was
about sending a message to the Iranians,” Pollack said.  Oil Prices Fall  Oil dropped to a three-week low yesterday after two
European Union officials with knowledge of talks on sanctions
against Iran said an EU embargo is likely to be delayed for six
months to let members find alternative oil supplies. The
officials discussed the private talks on condition of anonymity.  Crude oil for February delivery fell 40 cents to $98.70 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Dec. 21. Oil dropped 2.8 percent this week and
is up 8 percent from a year earlier.  While Iran and the U.S. lack formal diplomatic relations,
the two nations have “several” channels of communication,
including the Swiss, who represent the U.S. in Iran, where there
is no American embassy, State Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  said at a briefing in  Washington  yesterday.  Back Channels  “We have a number of ways that we have historically
conveyed our views to the Iranian government,” Nuland said.
“We’ve used these mechanisms regularly on a range of issues
over the years, and we have done so again in this case.”  Private, or back-channel, messages allow for more subtle
and detailed communication and the possibility of dialogue that
usually isn’t possible in public, Michael Eisenstadt of the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy said in an interview.  The messages can be verbal, conveyed by a trusted messenger
or in letters, said  Jon Alterman , director of the Middle East
Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington.  It’s not clear how the message from the Obama
administration was conveyed, though a number of countries have
worked with Iran on behalf of the U.S., said Barbara Slavin, a
senior fellow at the Atlantic Council, a policy group in
Washington. These include Jordan, Qatar and Oman, which helped
with the release of three American hikers accused of spying,
Slavin said.  Rising Tensions  Tensions between the West and Iran have been rising as the
U.S. and its allies try to pressure Iran to abandon any thoughts
it may have of becoming a nuclear power.  “There is a clear threat from Iran in terms of that
country’s attempt to acquire nuclear weapons,” Cameron said
Friday in  Riyadh . “That would be very bad for the region, very
bad for the world, and I think it’s right that all countries
across the world step up the pressure on Iran to take a
different path. And Britain has been leading the way in that
regard in the European Union arguing for sanctions.”  Iran says its program is for civilian purposes, including
power generation. Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi
said on Dec. 27 that his nation would block shipments through
the strait, the world’s biggest choke point for seaborne oil
trade, if sanctions are imposed over  Iran’s nuclear program .  U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Martin Dempsey
said on Jan. 8 that Iran could temporarily close the  Strait of
Hormuz , through which 17 million barrels of oil pass each day,
according to U.S. Energy Department estimates. He said the U.S.
would be able to defeat such a blockade.  Iran, the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 3.58 million barrels of
crude a day last month, according to Bloomberg estimates.  OPEC’s other members would be able to make up for a drop in
Iranian oil supply if the EU agrees to an embargo, said  Chakib Khelil , the group’s former president. Even so, prices may
temporarily rally to as high as $200 a barrel on news of any
such blockade, he said today in  London .  “It should be possible to replace, at least, the European
consumption of Iranian oil,” Khelil said in an interview with
 Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  