-- When Wall Street Sins, SEC Needs to Extract Confessions: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/when-wall-street-commits-a-sin-the-sec-needs-to-extract-confessions-view.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission last week said it will no longer allow individuals or
companies, when settling civil lawsuits, to “neither admit nor
deny” wrongdoing if they have been separately convicted in a
parallel criminal case. At first glance, it seems the SEC is
doing something highly commendable. But there is much less than
meets the eye here. The SEC should make further changes to put
real meaning behind its attempt at reform, which affects only a
small fraction of SEC cases.  The SEC’s enforcement chief,  Robert Khuzami , says the
change “eliminates language that may be construed as
inconsistent with admissions or findings that have already been
made in criminal cases.” This makes sense, since criminal cases
require a higher standard of proof than civil ones. In short, if
you’re guilty of the crime, you’re often guilty of parallel
civil violations.  Internal discussions on revising the settlement language
have been going on for months, the SEC said. We have to wonder
whether the commission didn’t see the contradiction of its
policy after  Wells Fargo & Co.  last month admitted to Justice
Department charges of municipal-bond bid rigging by Wachovia,
which Wells Fargo acquired in 2008. As in so many other cases,
Wells Fargo skirted an admission of wrongdoing in a matching SEC
suit.  The bigger question is why the SEC ever adopted such a
stance and let it remain in place since the 1970s. One answer
might be that the SEC has sometimes forgotten that its mission
is to protect investors, not the industry it oversees.  Taking Heat  The SEC has been taking heat more generally for its
longstanding policy of allowing settlements that let the accused
pay a fine and go on their merry way. The SEC makes defendants
promise never again to violate the law, but rarely acts when its
“sin no more” pledge is broken.  These settlements serve the interests of the SEC and those
it sues. The agency avoids the expense and risk of going to
trial. Same for the defendant, which sees any resulting fine as
a cost of doing business, and gains something valuable in the
process: By avoiding an admission of guilt, it deprives anyone
else of ammunition for use in private lawsuits.  The practice of negotiating neither-admit-nor-deny deals
has come in for scrutiny, thanks to U.S. District Court Judge
Jed Rakoff. In November, Rakoff put a hold on a $285 million SEC
agreement to resolve a fraud lawsuit against a unit of  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  The suit accused Citigroup of assembling in 2007 a
security, backed by subprime mortgages, that was designed to
blow up. It worked as planned, the suit said, costing investors
$700 million and earning Citigroup a $160 million profit.  Rakoff said the Citigroup agreement didn’t contain enough
information for him to decide if it was reasonable and in the
public interest. The SEC, insisting the deal was fine, said it
wasn’t even up to the judge to determine if a settlement was in
the public’s interest. The commission has appealed Rakoff’s
decision.  In defending its settlement practices, the SEC does make a
valid point: Without the option of letting a defendant avoid
admitting wrongdoing, the agency’s bargaining power would
evaporate. What defendant, after all, would even bother to
negotiate, knowing that it might have to hand potential
litigants the goods to build a strong lawsuit? What’s more, the
neither-admit-nor-deny settlement format is used, though not as
often, by other enforcement agencies.  But if the SEC wants to restore legitimacy to these types
of settlements, it should consider a couple of modifications.
First, at a minimum, the SEC should extract an acknowledgement
of mistakes from defendants -- leaving aside the question of
whether those errors were honest ones or not. This would still
preserve a defendant’s ability to deny wrongdoing.  Getting an Incomplete  The SEC managed to wrest such a concession from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which two years ago was accused by the agency
of selling a self-destructing security, much like the one
Citigroup peddled. In settling and agreeing to pay a $535
million fine, Goldman Sachs conceded that the marketing
materials for the security sale were incomplete. The court
approved that settlement without hesitation.  The agency also should either drop the requirement that a
defendant promise not to violate securities laws again, or get
serious about enforcing it. The latter is preferable. The
Citigroup unit in the current litigation is a repeat offender;
five times since 2003 it has settled SEC allegations of
 securities fraud . Not once has the SEC sought to hold Citigroup
in contempt of court for breaching prior agreements.  The SEC does need tools to entice those accused of breaking
securities laws into settling. Litigating every case just isn’t
practical. But the agency should make changes to avoid
justifiable perceptions that it gives away too much when it
strikes a deal.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  