-- With Safety, Alcoa Showed Its Mettle (Part 3): Bratton and Tumin
-- B y   W i l l i a m   J .   B r a t t o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T u m i n
-- 2012-01-13T00:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/with-safety-alcoa-showed-mettle-part-3-commentary-by-bratton-and-tumin.html
What would happen if a corporation
rejected financial goals as practically subversive of its true
aspirations?  That is what happened with 100-year-old  Alcoa (AA)  Inc. Under
the leadership of Paul H. O’Neill, Alcoa revived its fortunes
through the single-minded pursuit of perfection in an area that
wasn’t about money at all.  It was about safety.  In the 1880s, Charles Martin Hall, Alcoa’s founder,
invented the smelting of aluminum, a lightweight and highly
conductive material that is easy to work with. A century later,
neither the process nor the company had changed all that much.
Take 4 tons of bauxite-rich dirt, refine it into 2 tons of
alumina powder, smelt that down into a ton of aluminum ingots,
then on to can sheets. From these, you can make 60,000 Pepsi
cans, or seven Audi car frames, or planes or boats -- whatever
the customer wants.  The most recent major aluminum product innovation -- the
beverage can -- came back in the 1960s. By the 1980s, the
aluminum business was in decline, thanks partly to trade
barriers, the growth of manufacturing in  developing countries ,
volatile ore prices and new synthetic substitutes like laminates
and composites. Supply was up, demand was down. Aluminum was a
mature industry with a poor outlook.  In the early 1980s, Alcoa tried diversifying, buying
companies that specialized in ceramics and composites, not
aluminum. But it didn’t work.  Government Background  So in 1987, the board of directors brought in a new chief
executive officer,  Paul O’Neill . It was an odd choice. O’Neill
had grown up in government, not industry, rising in the Nixon
and Ford administrations to deputy director of the Office of
Management and Budget. O’Neill had then served as an executive
at International Paper Co. Having been on the Alcoa board for
only a year and knowing little about aluminum, he was the first
Alcoa CEO ever to be chosen from outside the company’s ranks.  Like a new sheriff in town, O’Neill rode in alone: He
brought no new executives with him. Nor did he fire any
veterans.  O’Neill wanted to achieve growth by improving the way the
company used its assets -- the speed of machines, the amount of
energy used, the number of people needed per task, waste
material generated, and length of time on processes.  “By taking care of those nonfinancial indicators,” O’Neill
said, “I had a really strong feeling that the financial result
would take care of itself.”  He sent teams to compare Alcoa with competitors such as
Reynolds Metals, Co. and Alcan Inc., and companies such as
DuPont Co., Xerox Corp. and Florida Power & Light Co. He
identified 450 measures of productivity, safety and quality. How
good were the other companies? How did they do it?  How high should Alcoa aim? To O’Neill the answer was
obvious: perfection.  “We could have been as good as, say, DuPont, and stopped
there,” he said. “But they weren’t perfect, so who wants to be
like that?”  Only an all-hands-on-deck collaboration could take Alcoa to
performance at this level. He needed a rallying point that would
propel Alcoa into the “perfection” business.  The day laborer, the forge supervisor and the plant manager
wouldn’t be swayed by cheerleading. The one shared truth that
bound all was the incredible complexity and danger of the Alcoa
workplace.  Safety, O’Neill said, “was a good place to drive a stake
into the ground.” It was an appeal to the heart of every
employee, a message that every one of them mattered.  Losses to Injury  The company already had an impressive safety record,
standing in the top third of all U.S. companies in days lost to
injury. But O’Neill wanted to bring the number to zero.  “People should not be hurt who work for Alcoa,” O’Neill
told a group of union and management executives at the company’s
huge Knoxville, Tennessee, plant. “It’s not a priority. It’s a
precondition.”  Turning to management, O’Neill said, “From this day
forward, we will not budget things that need to be done to
improve safety conditions. If you have identified something that
needs to be done, you should go and do it -- not put it into
next year’s budget and in the meantime hope that no one gets
hurt.”  Turning to the labor chiefs, O’Neill said, “If management
doesn’t follow up on what I just said to them, here’s my home
phone number.”  If a manager was told not to worry about money, what
argument was left against a perfect injury-free work
environment, against striving for zero workdays lost to injury?
As emotional fuel for high performance, a rallying cry for
collaboration, nothing was more potent than safety,  The whole enterprise ramped up. O’Neill gave his business-
unit presidents pagers and orders to call him directly within 24
hours of a workplace injury. That meant the presidents needed to
hear from vice presidents fast. Vice presidents had to hear from
plant managers even faster.  Plant managers created new safety positions, and ran
multiple audits of all safety incidents, past and present.
Safety-training programs were retooled. With all eyes on them,
safety managers addressed obvious problems that had been long
ignored.  After a worker’s fatal fall down a darkened pit in
Davenport,  Iowa , Alcoa spent $3 million to build protection
against a danger that people had been walking by for 30 or 40
years.  Shifting the Mindset  A new real-time safety information system soon gave Alcoa
employees at 340 locations in 43 countries access to incident
reports from near misses to injuries within 24 hours. This was
in 1991, when few companies even knew what the Internet was.  Six months after O’Neill became CEO, an 18- year-old worker
died on the job in  Arizona . O’Neill summoned everyone in the
line of authority to Pittsburgh. “We killed him,” O’Neill told
the roomful of executives.  Alcoa was still learning. But shifting the mindset would
take patience.  O’Neill felt he needed to shift the mindset of the rank and
file, too. Work at an Alcoa plant is tough, and workers come
from generations of Alcoans, and pride themselves on being
tough.  “Burns, cuts, smashed fingers just come with the
territory,” an employee explained. “They make you part of the
crew. Danger is like a rite of passage.”  “You have to convince your people that that kind of
behavior is not in their own interest,” O’Neill said.  The gains came swiftly. By 1991, Alcoa had reduced its
injury rate by 50 percent. The search for perfection in all its
processes rippled through Alcoa. Two employees at its troubled
Rockdale, Texas, plant invented a new smelting process that
reduced variation in a key stage by 80 percent, achieving the
best “pot controls” in the plant’s history. That idea added
$80,000 of value to the Rockdale operation.  Alcoa’s Addy, Washington, plant had dodged closure on a
turnaround but still faced 100 layoffs. An hourly worker stepped
forward: His team had figured out how to reduce furnace downtime
by 50 percent. The new process saved Alcoa $10 million more than
the layoffs had promised -- and preserved the jobs.  Texas workers found system fixes that clipped $400,000 off
annual power costs. Brazilian employees devised new shipping
containers that saved $150,000. Workers at a Tennessee plant
reduced processing times by 40 percent for aluminum coils.  For the first time, Alcoa was seriously listening to its
employees, both salaried and hourly.  Financial Incentives  O’Neill added financial incentives -- a broad move to share
perks beyond the usual elite ranks and shareholders. He brought
half of Alcoa’s wage-earning workforce onto a profit-sharing
plan, up from 5 percent when he began. That put $1,500 into
their pockets in 1989 -- serious money for workers with base-
wage rates of $12 to $15 per hour.  As for safety, Alcoa’s lost-workday rate dropped by 50
percent. So did its rate of serious injury. The number of
disabling injuries fell by more than half.  All in O’Neill’s first five years. By the end of O’Neill’s
12-year tenure, Alcoa’s lost-workday rate had dropped to a 20th
of the U.S. average. Not zero, but Alcoa was still learning.
Along the way, the company had gobbled up competitors, including
Reynolds, and now controlled one-sixth of global aluminum output
and almost half of U.S. output, and posted record profits of
$1.5 billion on sales of $23 billion.  Trade safety for profits? Many firms will. But O’Neill
showed the opposite strategy worked better. He brought his
employees into a collaboration that drove safety and financial
performance far higher than anyone at Alcoa thought possible.  (William J. Bratton, who led the  Los Angeles ,  New York  and
Boston police departments, is the chairman of Kroll, a risk
consulting company. Zachary Tumin is a senior researcher at
Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and
International Affairs. This is the last in a three-part series
of excerpts from their book, “ Collaborate or Perish !: Reaching
Across Boundaries in a Networked World,” to be published Jan. 17
by  Crown Business . The opinions expressed are their own. Read
 Part 1  and  Part 2 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
William J. Bratton and Zachary Tumin at
 info@collaborateorperish.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 