-- Wounded Knee Massacre Coverup Blamed Indians for Butchery: Lewis Lapham
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2012-01-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/wounded-knee-massacre-coverup-blamed-indians-for-butchery-lewis-lapham.html
The massacre at Wounded Knee,  South
Dakota , on Dec. 29, 1890 left most of the frightened and
destitute band of 350 Lakota Sioux dead or wounded, including
women and nursing babies, children and the elderly. Some were
shot in the back as they tried to flee. A number of soldiers
were killed by friendly fire.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  Appalled by the carnage, including the loss of 25 of his
own men, General Nelson Miles investigated, zeroing in on the
bungling of the Seventh Cavalry’s Col. James Forsyth. Soldiers
came to his defense, saying that they couldn’t tell the men from
the women since all were wearing blankets, and that, in any
case, “A Sioux squaw is as bad an enemy as a man.”  When the report was sent to Secretary of War Redfield
Proctor, General John Schofield, the Commander of the Army,
attached a note saying the troops had clearly bent over
backwards to avoid killing women and children, while also
denying that any troops had died in friendly fire.  The final report exonerated U.S. soldiers and blamed the
massacre on the Sioux themselves, with many of the dead women
and children supposedly killed by other Indians.  For conspicuous bravery, 20 soldiers present at the
massacre were awarded the Medal of Honor.  I spoke with Heather Cox Richardson, author of “Wounded
Knee: Party Politics and the Road to an American Massacre,” on
the following topics:  1. Destitute Refugee Band  2. Corrupt Election  3. Ghost Dance  4. Death of Sitting Bull  5. Spinning the Massacre  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in New York at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 