-- Myanmar Releases Prisoners as U.S. Opens Diplomatic Initiative
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-01-13T22:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/myanmar-begins-big-release-of-prisoners-as-u-s-to-renew-diplomatic-ties.html
Myanmar’s government began releasing
hundreds of political prisoners yesterday after signing a cease-
fire with the country’s largest armed rebel group, two
conditions set by Western nations for lifting sanctions.  Those freed included pro-democracy activists, ethnic
minority leaders and an ex-prime minister who fell out of favor
with the former ruling junta, according to the  Democratic Voice
of Burma , an Internet news service run by exiles. They are among
651 prisoners included in a presidential pardon, the  Associated
Press  reported.  The U.S. moved toward restoring diplomatic relations.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in a briefing yesterday
in  Washington  that the U.S. will respond to the “momentous
day” by acting to exchange ambassadors. The “lengthy process”
will depend on “continuing progress and reform,” she said.  Freeing political prisoners has been a primary demand of
U.S. and European policy makers who had imposed sanctions on
Myanmar, one of Asia’s poorest countries, whose 62 million
citizens earn an average of $2.20 per day. Clinton had urged
Myanmar President  Thein Sein  during a visit in December to free
prisoners and improve ties with ethnic groups as conditions for
easing restrictions.  “President Thein Sein’s decision to release hundreds of
prisoners of conscience is a substantial step forward for
democratic reform,” President  Barack Obama  said in a written
statement released by the White House.   ‘Right Thing’  “This could be the big prisoner release that everyone has
been waiting for,”  Thant Myint-U , a former United Nations
official who has written two books on Myanmar, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a number greater than the National
League for Democracy’s number of prisoners of conscience,” he
said, referring to the party led by dissident  Aung San Suu Kyi .  The prisoners released included Min Ko Naing, a student
leader from a 1988 uprising, and Khun Tun Oo, a Shan ethnic
leader, the AP reported. Former Prime Minister Khin Nyunt was
also freed after more than seven years under house arrest, the
Democratic Voice of Burma reported.  “Years of international calls to release long-detained
political prisoners seem to have pushed the government to
finally do the right thing,” Elaine Pearson, deputy  Asia 
director for New York-based  Human Rights Watch , said in a
statement. “The next step for Burma’s government is to allow
international monitors to verify the whereabouts and conditions
of remaining political prisoners.”  Number Disputed  The number of jailed dissidents in Myanmar is disputed. Suu
Kyi, who spent 15 years in confinement before her release in
2010, called for the government to free 525 political prisoners
on Nov. 16. The Thailand-based Assistance Association for
Political Prisoners (Burma) said on Dec. 23 that  more than 1,500
dissidents  remained locked up.  The prisoner release follows an agreement signed Jan. 12
with the  Karen National Union  in a bid to end more than 60 years
of fighting in one of the world’s oldest conflicts.  “This is an incredibly significant moment,” Jim Della- Giacoma, Southeast Asia project director for the  International
Crisis Group , said by telephone from Jakarta. “It could be a
tipping point and lead other major armed groups that have not
yet signed cease-fires with the government to do so.”  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague , who traveled to
Myanmar for talks last week, said in an e-mailed statement that
the developments were “good news for the people of  Burma ,”
referring to the country by its former name.  Lifting Sanctions  Hague offered last week to lift sanctions on Myanmar in
return for “bold steps” toward increased freedom and
democracy, echoing Clinton’s statement from last month.  European Union sanctions on Myanmar include asset freezes
on state-owned companies and travel restrictions on officials.
U.S. measures ban imports, restrict money transfers, curb aid
funding and target jewelry with gemstones originating in
Myanmar.  In his statement yesterday, Obama cited as a good start the
release of prisoners and changes in the law to allow Suu Kyi’s
National League for Democracy to take part in April 1 elections.  “I urge the government to ensure that these and all other
former political prisoners are allowed to participate fully and
freely in the political process, particularly the upcoming by-
elections,” Obama said in the statement.  Return to Myanmar  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , based in San Ramon,  California , is one of
the few U.S. companies operating in Myanmar through its 2005
purchase of Unocal Corp., which invested in a gas field and
pipeline prior to a 1997 ban on new investment.  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K. bank that earns more than two-thirds of
its profit in Asia, said this month that it is seeking to return
to Myanmar once the U.S. and  Europe  lift sanctions.  China  National Petroleum Corp. is building oil and gas
pipelines across Myanmar, a move that would allow it to access
Middle Eastern crude without having to go through the Malacca
Straits. China,  Hong Kong  and  Thailand  account for more than 70
percent of total investment into Myanmar, compared with less
than 1 percent for the U.S., according to government data.  China’s Yunnan province has an economy twice the size of
Myanmar. China and  India , which account for more than a third of
the world population, share more than 3,600 kilometers (2,237
miles) of border with Myanmar.  Ethnic Groups  The Karen National Union was among five ethnic groups that
met with Myanmar government representative Aung Min two months
ago for initial peace talks. The group, founded in 1947, claims
about a tenth of Myanmar’s 62 million people. It is seeking to
retain the ability to carry weapons in a federal system that
maintains self-determination for the Karen, according to its
website.  The KNU sent a 19-member delegation to the talks, according
to a  statement  released three days ago, before the meeting. The
conflict has driven more than 140,000 people to seek asylum in
neighboring Thailand, which hosts them in camps along the
border, according to the  United Nations .  Myanmar’s army is still fighting with ethnic groups,
including the Kachin Independence Army. That conflict that has
displaced 50,000 ethnic Kachin since last June, Human Rights
Watch said on Dec. 21. Kachin, bordering China and India, is the
northernmost of Myanmar’s 14 provinces.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  