-- Year Later, U.S. Can Nurture Arab Spring’s Economic Roots: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-13T23:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-13/year-later-u-s-must-nurture-arab-spring-uprising-s-economic-roots-view.html
Saturday marks one year since
uprisings in the Arab world for the first time extirpated an
autocrat:  Tunisia ’s Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali.  Tunisians will mark the anniversary by commemorating
Mohamed Bouazizi, the young fruit vendor  who sparked the Arab
Spring  when he set himself afire in front of a government office
after police confiscated his cart. Today, it’s worth remembering
that as much as the region’s rebellions are about the yearning
for political freedom, they are also about the desire to make a
decent living, unfettered by tyrants large or small.  In responding to the Arab Spring, the  Obama administration
appropriately promised  considerable economic support to the
region -- especially to Egypt, the largest and most influential
country attempting a transition to democracy. For a variety of
reasons, this promise has yet to be fulfilled. With some of the
obstacles now removed, it is important to accelerate action now.  Congressional gridlock over the U.S. budget delayed two
important components of economic assistance. Only with the Dec.
23 passage of the federal omnibus spending bill did the
administration get the approval it needed to follow through with
planned Enterprise Funds for  Egypt  and Tunisia. Modeled after
successful programs in Eastern Europe and the former  Soviet
Union , the funds will be capitalized using U.S. foreign
assistance money -- initially $60 million for Egypt and $20
million for Tunisia -- and charged with making loans to and
investments in the private sector. Now the onus is on the
government to get the funds up and running.  A Debt Swap  The omnibus bill also provided the necessary authorization
to make good President  Barack Obama ’s promise to relieve Egypt,
whose  economy is a shambles , of $1 billion in debt. The offer,
however, is not forgiveness -- a simple scratching of a line
through an obligation -- but rather a debt swap. Egypt doesn’t
have to pay back the money. Instead, the U.S. will simply
subtract $1 billion from the amount of aid it is scheduled to
send to Egypt over the next three years.  What’s more, the offer is not without conditions. The U.S.
expects Egypt to spend the $1 billion it would have spent
servicing its debt on badly needed vocational training centers
and an economic innovation center. The U.S. should stick to its
guns to ensure this money is put to productive use, but it’s
going to take some creative diplomacy. At the moment,
negotiations over these projects have been delayed by tensions
over Dec. 29 raids by Egyptian authorities on a dozen
organizations, including three U.S. groups, working to support
democracy.  In many ways, Egypt has proven hard to help. Its government
has held up approval of plans for $1 billion in U.S. loans to
finance infrastructure projects and  job creation . In June, it
also rejected a $3 billion International Monetary Fund loan,
which the U.S. had encouraged. The country’s military rulers
cited public concerns that the IMF’s requirements for economic
reforms represented external meddling.  There will be another chance to get this one right. IMF
officials plan to return to Cairo next week with a new offer,
probably with tougher conditions, given the worsened shape of
Egypt’s economy. The best advice U.S. diplomats could give the
generals would be to take it, but only after laying the
groundwork for public acceptance of the package by having the
government propose it to the IMF rather than the other way
around.  Unlocking the Aid  U.S. officials should also use their  recently elevated
discussions  with the Muslim Brotherhood, which will dominate the
newly elected Egyptian Parliament, to gently present the reasons
the IMF deal is good for Egypt in the short and long term. Only
the sealing of an IMF deal will unlock the large amounts of aid
European and Persian Gulf countries have pledged but not yet
delivered to Egypt.  The Obama administration’s plans for two major economic
projects for the wider region are more or less on track. The
president hopes to roll out a promised trade and investment
partnership in  Chicago  in May at the next summit of the  G8
summit , which the U.S. now chairs. Famously, the countries of
the Arab world trade with one another and with the rest of the
world at remarkably low levels.  The program -- initially including the U.S.,  Morocco ,
Jordan, Egypt and Tunisia -- is meant to facilitate trade by
standardizing such things as investment regulations, border
transactions and tariffs. The sooner the system is functioning
and shows benefits, the sooner other Arab countries can be added
to it. It will also be valuable to include the E.U. in time.  One project is already reaping benefits. Since March, the
 Overseas Private Investment Corporation , the U.S. government’s
development finance institution, has been working with Arab
banks, guaranteeing up to 70 percent of the loans they make to
small businesses in the region. In less than a year, the program
has committed $650 million of its $2 billion.  For too long, tyranny in the Arab world has allowed the
ordinary person no voice, no choice, and few ways to eke out a
living. Those were privileges to be dispensed by the dictator.
Creating the freedom and means for citizens to make a dignified
living is not only the best way to combat authoritarianism, it
is a worthy way to honor Mohammed Bouazizi.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 