-- 
Israel Leads Mideast Stocks Lower on Hamas Accord; Dubai Shares Retreat

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   R o n i t   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-01T14:57:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/abu-dhabi-shares-retreat-to-two-week-low-on-earnings-growth-dvp-extension.html
Israeli shares fell the most since
March, leading a drop in Middle East stocks, on investor concern
an accord between political groups in the Palestinian
territories may threaten regional stability and amid violence in
neighboring  Syria .  Perrigo, the maker of over-the-counter drugs, dropped the
most since Nov. 10 and Gazit-Globe Ltd., a multinational real-
estate investment company, tumbled to the lowest in almost a
month. The  Tel Aviv 25 Index (TA-25)  of the country’s 25 biggest
companies lost 1.4 percent, the most since March 13, to 1,296.03
at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv , bringing the four-day drop
to 3.4 percent. Dubai’s measure closed at the lowest since April
14 and the Bloomberg GCC 200 Index lost 0.4 percent.  Hamas, an Islamist group that rules the  Gaza Strip , and
Fatah, which holds sway in the  West Bank , signed a preliminary
accord on April 28 to end their almost four-year divide, form a
unity government and hold elections.  Israel  in response delayed
tax funds to the Fatah-dominated Palestinian Authority until
receiving proof that the money won’t go to Hamas. Israel, the
U.S. and the European Union consider Hamas a terrorist group.  “Geopolitical issues, such as the Hamas-Fatah treaty, the
opening of the Rafah crossing by Egypt and the Syrian unrest are
weighing on the local market,” said Yuval Amiram, head of
institutional sales at Tel Aviv-based IBI-Israel Brokerage &
Investments Ltd.  Dubai’s Drop  Egypt plans to open its border crossing with the Gaza
Strip, possibly within the next two weeks, the Foreign Ministry
said on April 29, as Israel expressed concern over its
neighbor’s ties with Hamas. In Syria, the death toll from anti-
government protests has climbed as President Bashar al-Assad’s
regime intensified a crackdown on people who defied warnings not
to hold demonstrations.  In the United Arab Emirates shares fell after earnings
missed estimates and the country’s bourses extended the date
brokerages have to switch to a new settlement system.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  fell 0.4 percent to 1,628.43 at
the 2 p.m. close in the emirate and  Abu Dhabi ’s measure lost 0.2
percent.  Valuations look “attractive” although “with earnings
coming in below estimates for U.A.E. companies, the lack of
solid lending to the private sector and the delay of DvP
implementation, we see a lack of catalyst in the near future,”
said Tariq Qaqish, director and  fund manager  at Al Mal Capital
PSC in Dubai.  DvP Delay  The country’s stock exchanges said last week they will give
brokerages and custodians one more month to switch to the so-
called delivery-versus-payment system, one of MSCI Inc.’s
criteria for an upgrade to emerging markets. MSCI is scheduled
to announce the results of its review in June, according to its
website.  The 30 companies on the Dubai index trade at 8.5 times
estimated earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with 11.7 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, fell 1.2 percent to 3.25 dirhams, the lowest level
since April 11. The company said April 24 first-quarter profit
slumped 45 percent, missing analysts’ estimates.  Sorouh Real
Estate Co. (SOROUH) , Abu Dhabi’s second-biggest property developer by
market value, dropped for a second day, slipping 0.7 percent to
1.41 dirhams after reporting first-quarter profit slumped 50
percent last week.  Bonds Unchanged  Kuwait’s SE Price Index declined 0.2 percent, Qatar’s gauge
fell 0.1 percent and  Saudi Arabia ’s Tadawul All Share Index lost
0.4 percent. Oman’s measure was little changed.  Perrigo retreated 4.1 percent to 301.20 shekels and Gazit-
Globe declined 2.2 percent to 45.10 shekels. The yield on the
benchmark Mimshal Shiklit government bond due January 2020 rose
two basis points to 5.33 percent. The shekel gained 0.3 percent
to 3.3866 per dollar on April 29.  Markets in  Egypt  and Bahrain are closed for a holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 Asalha@bloombebrg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  