-- 
Trump Criticized by Republicans for Focusing on Obama’s Birth, School Work

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-05-01T18:25:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/after-being-lampooned-at-correspondents-dinner-trump-s-issues-criticized.html
Donald Trump  has been stealing
attention from campaign issues and candidates with his focus on
President Barack Obama’s birth certificate and school grades,
Republican Senators Lindsey Graham and  John McCain  said on
network talk shows today.  “There’s a lot of things Mister Trump can be proud of, but
some of this rhetoric and this focusing on the president’s
birth, I do not think is the way for us to win the White
House,” Graham, a South Carolina Republican, said on “Fox News
Sunday.”  Trump has suggested he may announce a Republican
presidential candidacy on or after the May 22 season finale of
“Celebrity Apprentice,” the New York real estate developer’s
NBC reality television show.  Trump has questioned whether  Barack Obama  was born in the
U.S. and whether he was eligible to be president. He’s also
questioned the president’s school grades, suggesting Obama may
have gotten special treatment to gain admission to colleges,
including  Harvard Law School , where he graduated magna cum
laude.  McCain, an Arizona Republican, said on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” program that he didn’t think Trump would become the new
face of the Republican party.  “We have very serious candidates, and I think that if
Mister Trump wants to run, he’s welcome to run,” McCain said.
The Arizona senator said the U.S. needs a “national
conversation” about issues such as the debt limit and
unemployment, and not a debate on Obama’s college transcripts.
“All of this is so unnecessary.”  ‘Tough Sale’  Referring to reports that Trump used salty language in an
April 28 speech in  Las Vegas , Graham said that “most Americans
don’t want their president to go around saying the f-word.”
While Trump “has a lot to offer,” Graham said the developer
“will have a tough sale in  South Carolina .”  Obama on April 27 released a long form of the birth
certificate showing he was born in Honolulu. After release of
the birth certificate, Trump said he was “proud” of prompting
the president to act. Obama said it was time to stop being
“distracted by sideshows and carnival barkers” in remarks to
reporters about the document.  Obama also ribbed Trump in remarks at the annual White
House Correspondents’ Association dinner last night.  “No one is prouder to put this birth certificate matter to
rest than ‘the Donald,’” Obama said.  White House Casino  Joking about what kind of change Trump might bring to the
White House, Obama showed a big-screen image of the “Trump
White House Resort and Casino,” with a pink neon sign, girls,
cocktails and Jacuzzis on the lawn.  Trump, in a call to  Fox News  today, said he hadn’t expected
to be the center of attention in jokes at the event, according
to Politico.  “I didn’t know that I’d be virtually the sole focus,”
Trump said. “I guess when you’re leading in the polls that sort
of thing tends to happen.”  Seth Meyers, a cast member on NBC’s “Saturday Night
Live,” gave the dinner’s keynote speech and addressed Trump’s
potential candidacy.  “Donald Trump often talks about running as a Republican,
which is surprising,” Meyers said. “I just assumed he was
running as a joke.”  Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and Texas Representative  Ron Paul  have formed committees to explore a presidential bid.  Potential Candidates  Potential Republican candidates also include former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich , of  Georgia ; former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, who won the Iowa caucuses in 2008; former Alaska
Governor Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential
nominee; Governor Mitch Daniels of  Indiana ; and former Utah
Governor Jon Huntsman, who stepped down last month as U.S.
ambassador to  China .  Florida Senator Marco Rubio, who won office last year with
support from Tea Party backers, said today on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” that he won’t “under any circumstances” be part of a
Republican presidential ticket in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  