-- 
Hamas-Fatah Hug Creates Illusion of Unity: Aaron David Miller

-- B y   A a r o n   D a v i d   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-05-01T23:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/hamas-fatah-hug-creates-illusion-of-unity-aaron-david-miller.html
As spring breaks out for Palestinian
unity, winter arrives for the Middle East  peace process .  The prospective Hamas-Fatah unity agreement was driven
primarily by domestic politics: Both of these long-term rivals
are seeking to energize their bases, preempt discontent on the
streets and dangle the always-attractive illusion of Arab unity
before their constituents.  This peace at home will guarantee greater political
conflict with both Israel and the U.S. and, if Palestinians
aren’t careful, tensions with the broader international
community. One thing is clear: An already mortally wounded peace
process is, for now, dead.  Tip O’Neill’s observation that all politics is local is as
true in  Beirut  as in  Boston . More than anything else, it was the
Arab Spring -- which so far has toppled the leaders of Egypt and
 Tunisia  -- that pushed Palestinian National Authority President
Mahmoud Abbas and Hamas toward an accord they could have signed
a year ago.  In many ways these two nominally national liberation
movements have become old, tired and frozen. Each in its own way
has failed to deliver -- Hamas with fixing the economy in Gaza,
Abbas with ending the Israeli occupation of the  West Bank .  So against the backdrop of political turmoil sweeping the
Arab world, there was logic to getting ahead of the curve by
unifying Palestinian ranks, if only as a tactic. Unity buys time
and space with constituencies and might allow improved
coordination of public services, better security and a stronger
front against the Israelis. Moreover, if you’re Hamas and you
see unrest in  Syria , an important sponsor, why not hedge your
bets?  Making It Work  Whether these two rivals can make unity work is another
matter. Their rivalry isn’t just over seats in the Palestinian
Legislative Council. It’s a strategic difference that cuts to
the core of what and where  Palestine  should be.  Tensions, vendettas and blood feuds still abound from
Hamas’s 2007 coup in Gaza, which ousted Fatah. The battle over
who controls the security services will make cooperation hard.
Abbas has to be nervous that Hamas might want to use this moment
of reconciliation to expand its influence in the West Bank at
Fatah’s expense.  The unity project also raises serious questions about
Hamas’s military actions, including rocket attacks against
 Israel . Agreeing to join a unity government, Hamas must have
made a commitment, even if unstated, to abandon armed struggle,
for now. If not, Hamas risks Abbas’s credibility with an
international community from whom the Palestinians want
statehood in the fall.  Respite From Attacks  If Hamas picks up the gun now, it will force Abbas to
condemn or support attacks. Both are untenable options with the
two sides governing together. So it’s possible, on the good-news
front, that we might see a real respite from Israeli-Palestinian
confrontation.  On the other hand, Abbas doesn’t seem to care much about
Israel or the U.S. Dealing with Hamas will complicate U.S.
assistance to the Palestinians and undermine the  Palestinian
Authority ’s successful efforts at institution building. Will
Abbas now agree to take money from one of Hamas’s principal
backers,  Iran ?  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu gains some
maneuvering room. After all, how can anyone criticize Israel for
not wanting to deal with a Palestinian Authority that has Hamas
in it? U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s hopes to revive the peace
process -- never terribly realistic -- will become dimmer still.  Good Theater  So long as Hamas won’t accept the international community’s
insistence that it recognize Israel and abandon violence -- and
it won’t now -- it’s hard to see where the unity brings us. It’s
good politics, a savvy read on how to stay ahead of the
Palestinians who are increasingly unhappy with their economic
and political lot, and good theater at a time when the entire
Arab world is a dramatic stage.  But without a broader logic that delivers real benefits to
Palestinians, unity will falter. Sooner or later, it will fall
victim to the inexorable tensions and different goals that still
characterize Fatah-Hamas relations. Without a way to co-opt both
Israel and the U.S., Palestinians may find themselves further
than ever from realizing their goal of a state of their own.  ( Aaron David Miller , author of “The Much Too Promised
Land: America’s Elusive Search for Arab-Israeli Peace,” is a
public policy scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars, and has served as a Middle East negotiator in
Republican and Democratic administrations. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Aaron David Miller at  aaron.miller@wilsoncenter.org   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  