-- 
Hamas Agrees to Abide by UN Resolutions Regarding Israel Under Fatah Pact

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-01T20:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/hamas-agrees-to-abide-by-un-resolutions-regarding-israel-under-fatah-pact.html
Hamas was told during reconciliation
negotiations with Fatah that it would have to abide by
international law and United Nations resolutions on talks with
 Israel  as part of a unity government, Palestinian billionaire
Munib Masri said.  Hamas doesn’t have to recognize Israel even if it is part
of the unity government, said Masri, a member of the Palestine
Liberation Organization’s Palestine Central Council, which
helped mediate the deal.  Hamas hasn’t yet decided on these issues “and it will
become clearer in the next two days,” Masri said in a phone
interview. “However, they took a very important step in that
they will not take any unilateral decisions and will only act
within a national plan that sets policy decisions.”  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah
party, which governs the  West Bank , reached an understanding on
April 27 aimed at ending a nearly four-year rift and paving the
way for national elections and a unity government with the
Islamic Hamas movement that rules the  Gaza Strip .  Hamas, considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
U.S. and European Union, hasn’t participated in peace talks with
the Jewish state, which it refuses to recognize.  Peace negotiations between Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu fell apart last year a few weeks after they
began when Israel refused to extend a partial 10-month
construction freeze in West Bank settlements. Abbas has said he
will resume negotiations only when all building is halted.  Abbas said last week that Fatah, which seeks a negotiated
peace agreement with Israel leading to the establishment of a
Palestinian state in the West Bank, Gaza Strip and east
 Jerusalem , will set the policy in any unity government with
Hamas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  