-- 
Harper Courts Immigrant Vote as New Canadians Pulled Toward Party in Power

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-05-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/harper-courts-immigrant-vote-as-new-canadians-pulled-toward-party-in-power.html
As Conservative Party candidate  Kyle
Seeback  left Sir William Gage Middle School near Toronto after a
campaign event last week, a clutch of black students shouted:
“we love you.”  Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper is counting on the
same kind of enthusiasm among voters for Seeback and candidates
in nine other districts with immigrant voters who have typically
backed the opposition  Liberal Party . Victories in those areas
tomorrow may give Harper the majority in Parliament that has
eluded him for the past five years.  “For a long time, Canadians held the belief that the
 Liberals  were the party of immigration” and now the
Conservatives are out to quash that notion, Seeback, 40, a
lawyer and former national team swimmer, said after the event at
the Gage school, which draws from the local Indian and Caribbean
communities.  The Conservatives are targeting districts -- often called
ridings -- like Brampton West and neighboring Brampton-
Springdale, hoping to take advantage of a tendency by ethnic
voters to side with the governing party, said Nelson Wiseman, a
political science professor at the  University of Toronto . While
for most of the past century that has been the Liberal Party,
the Conservatives have been in power since 2006.  Brampton  is 26 percent East Indian and 42 percent of the
population lists neither English or French as their first
language, according to  Statistics Canada’s 2006 census . The
party has identified nine other districts with similar
demographics where they finished a close second in the last
election.  Wontons for Lunch  Harper has repeatedly visited the Brampton area northwest
of Toronto during the five-week campaign, including a stop April
29, and has given interviews with media aimed at the Chinese-,
South Asian- and Italian-Canadian communities as part of that
push. By contrast, members of the media traveling with the
Harper campaign are limited to five questions a day.  Ethnic voters tend to support the party in power because
that party may be able to deliver policies to help their
community, Wiseman said in a telephone interview. “The
Conservatives have used that very effectively.”  Immigration Minister  Jason Kenney , the Conservative
official in charge of outreach to ethnic communities, “has been
eating perogis for breakfast, wontons for lunch and curry for
dinner every single day,” said Wiseman.  “It’s legitimate politics and they’ve been very astute and
much better than the Liberals, who did take those groups for
granted,” he said.  Opposition Support  Harper held  143 seats  in the last House of Commons, short
of the 155 needed for a majority, meaning he has relied on
opposition parties to back his legislation and keep him in
power. While Harper grew up in Toronto, his party holds no seats
in the heart of Canada’s biggest city. The Conservatives are
targeting ethnically diverse ridings near Toronto and  Vancouver 
to help get his majority.  Seeback said he is “very confident” of victory in
Brampton West, after coming up just 231 votes short against
Liberal candidate Andrew Kania in 2008.  Harper’s track record
on the economy and the party’s increased appeal to new
immigrants are making a difference this time, he said.  Harper oversees the fastest growing economy with the lowest
deficits among Group of Seven nations. The currency has been the
strongest in the G-7 over the past two years.  Government bonds 
have returned 5.5 percent over the past year as of April 27,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data, compared
with a 3 percent average for the G-7.  ‘New-Canadian Vote’  “None of us did a great job in getting the new-Canadian
vote in the last election,” Seeback said in an interview at his
campaign office, sandwiched between the Nice Nails beauty salon
and Dr. Poon’s Metabolic Clinic in a Brampton strip mall.  A “50 to 100 percent” increase in local volunteers,
requests for Conservative lawn signs and voters identifying
themselves as Conservatives is evidence of that shift, said
Seeback.  Sukhminder Hansra, editor and publisher of the Toronto-
based  Punjabi Daily  and Sikh Press, says a Conservative victory
shouldn’t be taken for granted. While the party may have made
inroads with some Indian voters, they have also made gaffes. For
example, Harper skipped an important Sikh parade that Liberal
leader  Michael Ignatieff  and New Democratic Party leader  Jack Layton  attended, which will probably cost him votes with that
community, said Hansra. As a result, ridings held by the
Liberals may not easily switch.  ‘Lip Service’  While the Conservatives “have done an excellent job of
paying lip service” to local ethnic concerns, that alone is not
enough to persuade immigrants to vote Conservative, said Michael
Miller, a spokesman for Gurbax Singh Malhi, the Liberal
candidate seeking re-election in the neighboring riding of
Bramalea-Gore-Malton.  Harper “was never in Brampton, now he is coming to the
riding all the time,” said Miller.  Changes to Canadian immigration policy that have made it
easier for qualified professionals to come to  Canada  with their
families yet harder for those already here to bring family
members over may also hurt Conservative support, said Hansra.  Allegations  by Brampton-Springdale Liberal incumbent Ruby
Dhalla that local Conservative candidate Parminder Gill
improperly used his connections to Kenney to smooth immigration
visa applications for voters may also hurt, said Hansra.  Gill declined to comment, through spokesman Tyler Orchard.
A call to Dhalla’s office for comment wasn’t returned. Dhalla
beat Gill by 773 votes in 2008.  “It’s going to be very tough to win these seats,” said
Hansra. “I don’t see it going to the Conservatives, but the
numbers are very close.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  