-- 
Arsenal Defeats Manchester United 1-0 to Narrow English Soccer Title Race

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-05-01T18:10:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/arsenal-defeats-manchester-united-1-0-to-revive-battle-for-league-title.html
Arsenal beat first-place  Manchester
United  1-0 today to open up the race for English soccer’s
Premier League title. West Ham remains bottom after a 2-1 loss
at fourth-place  Manchester City .  Aaron Ramsey scored at Arsenal’s Emirates Stadium to lift
the third-place team to within six points of United with three
games remaining. Chelsea is three points behind United following
a 2-1 win against Tottenham yesterday.  “I have not given up hope,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger 
told reporters. “We want to fight until the last second of the
season. You never know -- but Manchester United remain in the
best position.”  Elsewhere, Wolverhampton Wanderers stay one spot above West
Ham and in the relegation positions after a 1-1 tie at 10-man
Birmingham City. Liverpool defeated Newcastle 3-0 to climb to
fifth spot, ahead of Tottenham on goal difference.  The battle for the title now cannot be decided until the
second-last round of matches at the earliest, with defending
champion Chelsea able to go ahead of United on goal difference
if it wins their clash in a week’s time. United is chasing a
record 19th English league title and Arsenal is aiming to end a
seven-year wait for the championship.  “It’s in our interest that Chelsea win,” at Old Trafford
next week, Wenger said.  Ramsey Opportunity  Arsenal was without captain Cesc Fabregas after he suffered
an injury in training, giving Ramsey an opportunity in midfield.  The Gunners dominated the early stages with  Jack Wilshere 
dragging a chance wide from 15 yards and  Theo Walcott  hitting
over from close range. Patrice Evra then managed to intercept a
cross from Wilshere as Walcott waited to tap in at the far post.  United had a rare opportunity through  Javier Hernandez , but
Bacary Sagna managed to block as the striker took aim at goal.  Arsenal striker Robin van Persie appealed vociferously for
a penalty kick on 32 minutes when Nemanja Vidic appeared to
handle the ball from a Walcott cross. Nothing was given by the
officials.  United started more strongly in the second half,  Wayne Rooney  forcing Wojciech Szczesny into a diving save four minutes
after the interval.  The only goal came after 56 minutes.  Van Persie  advanced
down the right before sliding the ball across to Ramsey, who
struck a low shot into the bottom corner of the net. It was the
Welshman’s first goal for the club since January 2010.  The visitors came close again, Nani forcing a save from
Szczesny, and there were claims from United for a penalty late
on as Michael Owen tumbled in the area.  Fifth Straight Loss  At the bottom of the standings, West Ham slipped to a fifth
straight loss. The Hammers remain on 32 points, Wolves have 34,
18th-place Wigan and Blackpool, in 17th, are on 35 and Blackburn
38. Birmingham has 39 points.  The Hammers trailed 2-0 after 15 minutes at the City of
Manchester Stadium, from a long-range strike by Nigel de Jong
and an own goal from Lars Jacobsen. Demba Ba then scored for
West Ham in the 33rd minute, but the visitors were unable to
break down City’s defense again.  Wolves, who could have climbed out of the three-team drop
zone with a win, took a seventh-minute lead at St. Andrew’s on a
penalty from Steven Fletcher.  Sebastian Larsson replied on 27 minutes for the Blues, who
played more than half the match with 10 men following a 38th-
minute red card for midfielder Craig Gardner.  Magic Missing  “We didn’t have what was necessary to pick a hole whether
it be from a final pass or a bit of magic,” Wolves manager Mick
McCarthy told reporters. “It is a missed opportunity of
course.”  At Anfield,  Maxi Rodriguez ,  Dirk Kuyt , with a penalty kick,
and  Luis Suarez  scored for Liverpool to lift the Reds ahead of
Tottenham.  Yesterday, Blackburn defeated Bolton 1-0, Blackpool tied 0-
0 against Stoke, while Wigan drew 1-1 against Everton. Fulham
won 3-0 at Sunderland, and West Bromwich Albion defeated Aston
Villa 2-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 