-- 
Arsenal Rewards Wenger’s Faith in Youth With 1-0 Win Over Manchester Utd.

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-01T23:12:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/arsenal-rewards-wenger-s-faith-in-youth-with-1-0-win-over-manchester-utd-.html
Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  has
faced criticism from fans for developing young soccer talent
instead of buying ready-made stars. Yesterday, his players
backed up his case in the 1-0 win over  Manchester United .  Arsenal threw open the title race as it dented leader
United’s bid for a record 19th English championship. The Gunners
secured the victory with the youngest group of players to start
a Premier League match this season. The goal came from 20-year-
old Aaron Ramsey, whose inclusion contributed to an average age
of 23 years, 296 days, according to Infostrada Sports.  “It’s very important for the club that we keep faith in
what we do,” Wenger told reporters after the game at the
Emirates Stadium in  London . “The players grow when they get a
chance. People want it both ways -- they want to win and produce
fantastic players.”  United’s defeat, its first in eight matches against
Arsenal, means second-place Chelsea can take top spot on goal
difference if it wins when the teams meet at Old Trafford on May
8. United has 73 points, three more than Chelsea through 35 of
38 games. Arsenal has 67 points.  Wenger said he’ll be supporting the Blues in that game
because a Chelsea victory would keep alive his team’s outside
hopes of winning the title. Arsenal is a 100-1 chance to win the
championship, according to U.K. bookmaker William Hill. United
is the 1-4 favorite ahead of 11-4 shot Chelsea.  The Gunners had been in contention before losing their way
in recent weeks.  Dropped Points  They led Liverpool before conceding a penalty in the 11th
minute of injury time, gave up a 3-1 lead to tie with Tottenham
and then lost 2-1 at Bolton to a 90th-minute goal. Those
setbacks mean the season could be the Gunners’ sixth straight
without a trophy.  “If we got nine points from these games we would have been
ahead of Manchester,” Wenger said.  Arsenal lost captain Cesc Fabregas on the eve of
yesterday’s game to a thigh injury. Wenger gave Ramsey his
second start of the season and paired him in midfield alongside
19-year-old English national team player  Jack Wilshere .  Ramsey broke his leg 15 months ago in a game at Stoke. He
had a loan spell in the second-tier Championship with Nottingham
Forest this season as part of his rehabilitation.  The former Cardiff City player’s scoring chance was set up
by  Robin van Persie . The Dutchman picked Ramsey out after
dribbling into the box, and Ramsey passed the ball into the
bottom corner 10 minutes into the second half.  ‘Very Happy’  “I’m very happy for him,” Wenger said. “He looks just
now to be back to his best.”  Each team had potential penalties missed by referee Chris
Foy. The first was when United’s Nemanja Vidic touched the ball
away with his hand when  Van Persie  was poised to head at goal in
the first half. United substitute Michael Owen was left
frustrated when Foy failed to spot a possible trip by  Gael Clichy  in the closing stages.  Wenger added his voice to the calls for video technology to
be brought in. United manager  Alex Ferguson  said the stakes are
too high for such errors.  “It’s too big a game not to get the decisions right,”
Ferguson told  Sky Sports .  Wayne Rooney ’s 48th-minute free kick forced Wojciech
Szczesny into a diving stop and the Pole saved from Nani after
77 minutes.  Those were the best chances for United, who rarely showed
the form that’s pushed the Red Devils to the brink of the
Champions League final and kept them atop the Premier League for
most of the season.  Before facing Chelsea, United hosts Schalke in the second
leg of their Champions League semifinal on May 4 holding a 2-0
lead from the first game.  “We’re in as good a position as we could ever have wished
for from the start of the season,” Ferguson told MUTV. “We’re
in the semifinal of the European Cup in the second leg, with a
two-goal lead, and we go into Chelsea with equal goal difference
and a home game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Emirates Stadium via the London newsroom
at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  