-- 
Berkshire May Have First Underwriting Loss in Nine Years After Disasters

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r ,   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-05-01T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/berkshire-may-have-first-underwriting-loss-in-nine-years-after-disasters.html
Warren Buffett  said natural disasters
led by the  Japan  earthquake in March eroded first-quarter profit
at  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and may lead to the company’s first
annual insurance underwriting loss in nine years.  Net income dropped to $1.51 billion from $3.63 billion a
year earlier, Berkshire said yesterday in a statement. The
insurance segment posted an underwriting loss of $821 million.
The Japan earthquake cost the firm $1.06 billion, a temblor in
Christchurch,  New Zealand  $412 million, and flooding and a
cyclone in  Australia  $195 million.  Berkshire benefited last year after the U.S. escaped major
damage from hurricanes. Insurers had more than $60 billion in
catastrophe claims as a result of Hurricanes Katrina, Wilma and
Rita in 2005, according to  ISO , a unit of actuarial data
provider Verisk Analytics Inc.  “We probably had the second-worst quarter for the
 insurance industry  in terms of catastrophes around the globe,”
Buffett said yesterday at Berkshire’s annual meeting in Omaha,
 Nebraska . “Normally the third quarter of the year is the worst
because that’s when the hurricanes tend to hit.”  Berkshire made  $1.3 billion  last year from insurance
underwriting, according to a regulatory filing. Its last annual
underwriting loss was in 2002, at  $284 million .  “It’s unlikely that we would have an underwriting profit
for 2011,” said Buffett, the firm’s 80-year-old chairman and
chief executive officer. “If it was remarkably catastrophe-
free, it’s conceivable we would break even.”  No Dividend  Berkshire’s Class A shares have risen 3.6 percent this year
in New York Stock Exchange trading. They declined $55 to
$124,750 on April 29.  Buffett, who has shunned payouts to Berkshire investors and
buybacks, said declaring a dividend would cause his firm’s
shares to fall and be an admission that he can’t fully invest
the company’s profits. He prefers to make acquisitions and buy
securities instead. With a cash hoard of about $38 billion, it
may be harder to effectively invest the proceeds, Buffett said.  “Every dollar that’s been reinvested in Berkshire has
created more than a dollar of market value,” said Buffett, who
is Berkshire’s largest shareholder. “There will come a time,
and who knows how soon because the numbers are getting big,”
that the company won’t be able to use profits in a way that
serves shareholders, he said.  Derivatives, Investments  Berkshire had a first-quarter loss of $82 million on
derivatives and investments compared with a $1.41 billion gain
on the holdings a year earlier. Liabilities on the company’s so-
called equity-index puts widen when four stock indexes fall
further from the levels they were at when Buffett made the deals
near the market’s peak in 2006 and 2007.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average, one of four benchmarks
covered by Buffett’s bets, dropped 4.6 percent in the first
quarter, led by declines after the earthquake in that country.
The stock-price declines in Japan are a “buying opportunity”
for equity investors, Buffett said at a news conference in
Bangalore in March. The other three benchmarks, including the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, advanced in the period.  U.S. lenders are less attractive investments than they once
were, Buffett said. Berkshire was the largest shareholder in
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  as of year-end and the third-largest owner of
U.S. Bancorp stock.  “U.S. banking profitability will be considerably less in
my view in the period ahead than it was in the early part of
this century,” Buffett said. “A very important reason is that
the leverage will be reduced. That’s probably a good thing for
society. That may be a bad thing for banks who can use leverage
intelligently.”  ‘Bullish’ on Recovery  Profit from regulated businesses, such as the Burlington
Northern Santa Fe railroad and utility unit MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Co., surged to $908 million from $505 million a year
earlier.  Matt Rose , CEO of Burlington Northern, said he is
confident about economic expansion led by trade with  Asia .  “I’m very, very bullish about the recovery,” Rose said
yesterday in an interview in Omaha. “It’s really driven by
worldwide demand, specifically  China .”  Berkshire acquired Burlington Northern last year for
$26.5 billion in cash and stock, taking on about $8 billion in
debt, in what Buffett has called an “all-in wager” on the  U.S.
economy . His firm said in March that it would purchase engine-
additive maker Lubrizol Corp. for about $9 billion in cash.  Future Deals  “We’re looking at a couple but they’re not more than a
gleam in the eye,” Buffett said of deals that would be
“something similar” to Lubrizol. “They’re worth doing but we
can’t do a really big elephant now and we won’t stretch when
we’ve never really taken any risk because we don’t need to.”  Manufacturing, service and retailing profit jumped to
$558 million in the first quarter from $477 million a year
earlier. That group includes Marmon Holdings Inc., a maker of
construction materials; carpet manufacturer Shaw Industries; and
Fruit of the Loom, which produces underwear and other clothing,
according to the company’s annual report. Berkshire didn’t break
down results by unit.  “Pretty much all of our businesses with the exception of
those that are related to residential housing are getting
better,” Buffett said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in Omaha at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Omaha at   afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  