-- 
Bubba Watson Takes Third PGA Tour Title in 10 Months With New Orleans Win

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-05-02T04:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/bubba-watson-wins-playoff-at-golf-s-zurich-classic-of-new-orleans.html
Bubba Watson claimed his third U.S.
PGA Tour victory in the past 10 months by beating Webb Simpson
on the second playoff hole at the Zurich Classic of  New Orleans .  Watson, 32, made consecutive birdies at the TPC Louisiana
at Avondale’s par-5 18th hole during the playoff, including a
four-foot putt that clinched the win and $1.12 million.  Watson picked up his first PGA Tour golf title in a playoff
at last year’s Travelers Championship and in January captured
the Farmers Insurance Open at  Torrey Pines  by beating  Phil Mickelson  with a birdie on the final hole.  “Somehow I won the first one and somehow now I’ve got
three,” Watson said during a news conference. “A year ago I
was a good player who never won, and now I’ve got three under my
belt. It’s something that I could never dream of.”  Watson and Simpson finished 15-under par -- two shots
better than Jason Dufner and Tommy Gainey -- after shooting
rounds of 3-under 69 yesterday.  They went to the playoff shortly after Simpson took a one-
shot penalty at the 15th green, where he told a  PGA Tour  rules
official the wind moved his ball about a half-inch as he went to
tap it in for a par from five inches away.  “I don’t think it’s a good rule,” said Simpson, who is
still seeking his first PGA Tour win. “When wind or other
natural things affect the golf ball, the player shouldn’t be
penalized. Who knows if that happened or what would happen. It
was just unfortunate. But Bubba deserves a win.”  The 25-year-old Simpson also finished second at the
Transitions Championship in March.  The PGA Tour now moves to  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , for
the $6.5 million Wells Fargo Championship, which is scheduled to
begin May 5 at the Quail Hollow Club. Tiger Woods will skip the
tournament because of knee and Achilles injuries he sustained at
last month’s Masters Tournament.  The tournament is the last on the schedule before the
Players Championship, the tour’s flagship event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  