-- 
Buffett Faults Sokol, Calls CEO Candidate ‘Straight as an Arrow’

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e ,   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-05-01T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/buffett-faults-sokol-takes-blame-for-not-pressing-him-on-stock-disclosure.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Chief
Executive Officer  Warren Buffett , preparing the firm for his
eventual departure, criticized former manager  David Sokol  for a
stock deal while lauding the integrity of a CEO candidate.  Sokol, seen as a possible successor to Buffett before he
resigned in March amid revelations that he’d purchased shares in
Berkshire takeover target  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) , violated the company’s
insider-trading rules, Buffett said yesterday at Berkshire’s
annual meeting in Omaha,  Nebraska . The 80-year-old billionaire
assured shareholders that Berkshire’s top choice to be the next
CEO is trustworthy. He didn’t name the executive.  “The leading candidate right now, I would lay a lot of
money on him being straight as an arrow,” Buffett said.  Sokol’s stock deals, which Buffett called “inexplicable”
considering his wealth, depleted Berkshire’s roster of possible
CEOs. Berkshire said in February that it had four candidates,
without identifying them.  “Investors are very worried about succession and
justifiably so, and the situation gets more urgent with every
year,” said Jill Fisch, a professor at the University of
Pennsylvania Law School who has written about corporate
governance. “In terms of future uncertainty, that’s the biggest
risk for Berkshire Hathaway.”  Buffett, who’s also Berkshire’s chairman and biggest
shareholder, singled out reinsurance head Ajit Jain for praise
during yesterday’s meeting at the Qwest Center, an Omaha arena
with more than  18,000 seats . Jain, 59, has a mind that “works
like a machine,” Buffett said.  Buffett’s Best Deal  “I can’t think of any decision he’s ever made that I could
have made better,” Buffett said. “I don’t know what his best
deal was. I know what my best deal was: It was hiring him.”  Buffett said his criteria for the next CEO include both the
“quality of the person” as well as managerial skills.  “It’s vital that you have someone at Berkshire that is
running the place who cares more about Berkshire than he cares
about himself,” he said. “We have multiple candidates that
fulfill that.”  Buffett, the world’s third-richest man according to Forbes
magazine, has a personal fortune of about $50 billion. He takes
an annual salary of $100,000 to run Berkshire, and said his
successor will have to be paid more.  “The next CEO will make a lot of money,” Buffett said
yesterday. “Whatever level the board decides then in terms of a
base value should be supplemented by an options system.”  Duties Divided  Buffett’s responsibilities will be split, upon his death or
retirement, among at least three people. A CEO will oversee the
operating units and one or more investment managers will take
charge of the portfolio. Buffett said his son Howard will
probably assume the position of non-executive chairman and has
“no designs” on taking over.  Buffett’s eventual replacements will take charge of a $200
billion company whose composition and culture are largely the
expression of just one person. The CEOs of each operating unit,
from Fruit of the Loom to  Dairy Queen  to Geico, were vetted by
Buffett before acquisitions and promotions.  Sokol, 54, was considered by Buffett biographer Andrew Kilpatrick as the top CEO candidate before stepping down.
Buffett announced Sokol’s departure in a March 30 statement that
also described the Lubrizol stock deals.  Sokol bought about $10 million of Lubrizol Corp. shares in
January while representing Berkshire in discussions about buying
the lubricant maker. Lubrizol jumped 28 percent on the New York
Stock Exchange on March 14 when Buffett announced a deal to buy
the company for about $9 billion.  No Violation  “At no time did Mr. Sokol violate the law or any Berkshire
policy,” William Levine, a lawyer for Sokol at Dickstein
Shapiro LLP in  Washington , said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “At no time did Mr. Sokol intend to personally
profit at the expense of Berkshire or its shareholders. At no
time did Mr. Sokol mislead or deceive.”  Berkshire turned over “very damning evidence” about
Sokol’s deals and acted promptly in informing the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Buffett said. “He violated our insider-
trading rules and he violated the principles I lay out every two
years to our managers,” Buffett said at the annual meeting.  Buffett’s remarks yesterday contrast with comments from
March 30, when he cited Sokol’s “extraordinary” contributions
to Berkshire. The company’s audit committee said April 26 that
Sokol misled Buffett and violated the firm’s rules.  “It is alarming that Mr. Buffett would be advised to so
completely flip-flop and resort to transparent scapegoat-ism,”
Levine said in his statement.  ‘A Big Mistake’  Buffett said previously that Sokol had made a “passing
remark” about a personal investment in the company. The
committee said in a report that Buffett was unaware of the
timing of Sokol’s trades or that he was working with Citigroup
Inc. bankers to deal with Lubrizol.  “I made a big mistake by not saying, ‘Well, when did you
buy it?’” Buffett told shareholders yesterday.  “At best, the report makes Buffett look naive,” said
Elizabeth Nowicki, a professor at  Tulane University Law School 
and former attorney with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, in an interview before the meeting. “At worst it
looks like he didn’t immediately follow up the moment he knew
that things were smelling bad.”  Sokol had run an energy utility for Berkshire. His duties
included scouting for acquisitions and overseeing luxury-travel
and roofing units.  Buffett oversees the heads of Berkshire’s more than 70
subsidiaries with the help of Vice Chairman Charles Munger, 87,
and a staff of about 20 at the company’s headquarters. Berkshire
employs more than 250,000 people across industries spanning
insurance, energy and consumer goods, and Buffett entrusts
operational authority to the CEOs of the individual units.  Berkshire’s rules will be “looked at again by the  audit
committee ” in the wake of Sokol’s departure, Buffett said.  “We hope to get some value out of this experience,”
Buffett said at yesterday’s meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Omaha at   afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  