-- 
Buffett Cut Sokol Calls Short, Saying, ‘We Just Shouldn’t Talk’

-- B y   B e t t y   L i u   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-05-01T00:29:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/buffett-cut-sokol-calls-short-saying-we-just-shouldn-t-talk-.html
Warren Buffett  said he cut short
two telephone calls from former  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  manager
 David Sokol  because he was concerned that conversations between
the two could draw attention in a possible investigation.  “I said, ‘It just isn’t smart for us to be talking,’”
Buffett, Berkshire’s chief executive officer, said today in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Omaha,  Nebraska , after the
company’s annual meeting. “I said, ‘Someday they may be looking
at the phone records to see if it was 15 minutes, and it’s
better that it’s one minute. So we just shouldn’t talk.’”  Sokol, once seen as a candidate to succeed Buffett as CEO,
resigned in March amid revelations about his stock dealings. The
Securities and Exchange Commission is probing whether Sokol
bought shares in  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  on inside information, a person
who declined to be identified said on March 31.  Buffett, 80, said Sokol called to ask him how he was in
their first phone conversation subsequent to the March 30
statement announcing the resignation. In the second call,
Buffett said Sokol complained about a review into his affairs.  “He was somewhat unhappy about the degree to which the
lawyers were maybe sequestering records,” Buffett said. “I
said, ‘Look, I’m going to be asked about every conversation with
you so the only thing to do is not talk.’”  Sokol bought about $10 million of Lubrizol shares in
January while representing Berkshire in discussions about buying
the engine-lubricant maker. He made a “passing remark” about a
personal investment in the company while he was pushing for the
takeover, Buffett said in his March 30 statement.  ‘Big Mistake’  Buffett told shareholders that he assumed Sokol’s Lubrizol
holding was bought prior to the acquisition discussions and that
he regretted not seeking more information at the time. In his
March 30 statement, Buffett praised Sokol for his contributions
to Berkshire in more than a decade of employment and said he
didn’t think he broke the law.  “I made a big mistake by not saying, ‘Well, when did you
buy it?’” Buffett said. “He violated our insider-trading rules
and he violated the principles I lay out every two years to our
managers.”  Lubrizol jumped 28 percent on the New York Stock Exchange
on March 14 when Buffett announced a $9 billion deal to buy the
company. Berkshire’s audit committee said the firm should weigh
suing Sokol to recover his trading profits.  “It is alarming that Mr. Buffett would be advised to so
completely flip-flop and resort to transparent scapegoat-ism,”
Sokol’s attorney, William Levine of Dickstein Shapiro LLP in
 Washington , said today in an e-mailed statement. “At no time
did Mr. Sokol violate the law or any Berkshire policy. At no
time did Mr. Sokol intend to personally profit at the expense of
Berkshire or its shareholders. At no time did Mr. Sokol mislead
or deceive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Betty Liu in Omaha at   bliu17@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Omaha at   afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  