-- 
Buffett Says Berkshire to Retain Goldman Sachs Warrants in Wager on Bank

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-05-01T23:11:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/buffett-says-berkshire-to-retain-goldman-sachs-warrants-in-wager-on-bank.html
Warren Buffett , who invested $5
billion in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  at the depths of the
financial crisis, said he plans to retain warrants in the bank
in a bet its shares will increase.  “We will keep them very close to their expiration,”
Buffett said yesterday at a press conference in Omaha,  Nebraska ,
where his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is based. “At some point,
we’re likely to exercise the warrants.”  Berkshire holds warrants, expiring in  2013 , to buy $5
billion in New York-based Goldman Sachs’s common stock at $115 a
share as a result of his 2008 preferred investment in the
company. The bank closed at $151.01 on April 29 on the New York
Stock Exchange.  Buffett’s support boosted Berkshire’s profit and buoyed New
York-based Goldman Sachs as the bank navigated the credit crunch
and was criticized by lawmakers. Goldman Sachs in March won
Federal Reserve approval to redeem the $5 billion in preferred
shares, which paid 10 percent annual interest to Berkshire.
Goldman also had to pay a $500 million fee.  Berkshire’s warrants have generated a paper profit of more
than $1.5 billion based on the April 29 stock price. Goldman
Sachs has declined 10 percent this year, compared with the 8.4
percent advance of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. First-
quarter profit slipped 21 percent to $2.74 billion, beating
analysts’ estimates on gains in investments, Goldman Sachs said
April 19.  Less Leverage  “U.S. banking profitability will be considerably less in
my view in the period ahead than it was in the early part of
this century,” Buffett said April 30 at the annual meeting of
Berkshire shareholders in Omaha. “A very important reason is
that the leverage will be reduced” as regulators tighten
capital rules, he said. “That’s probably a good thing for
society. That may be a bad thing for banks who can use leverage
intelligently.”  Buffett, whose relationship with Goldman Sachs dates to his
childhood when he met with an executive of the company, defended
the firm and Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  at
Berkshire’s annual meeting in 2010 after the bank was sued by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for fraud.  Goldman Sachs settled the SEC’s lawsuit in July by agreeing
to pay $550 million, and said it made a mistake in omitting
disclosure to investors. The SEC had said that Goldman Sachs
clients weren’t told when they invested in a collateralized debt
obligation from the bank that a hedge fund picked mortgages in
the investment and was betting on them to fail.  Buffett, who also makes derivative bets through Goldman
Sachs as Berkshire’s CEO, has said it makes no difference who is
on the other side of a trade and that it is an investor’s duty
to independently assess risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in Omaha at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  