-- 
China, Home to 300 Million Smokers, Starts Public Smoking Ban

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-01T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/china-home-to-300-million-smokers-starts-public-smoking-ban.html
China , the world’s largest cigarette
market, banned its estimated 300 million smokers from lighting
up in public places in a bid to reduce deaths from tobacco use.  The Ministry of Health prohibited smoking in enclosed
public spaces including hotels, restaurants, bars, cinemas, game
parlors, parks, exhibition halls, terminals and public
transportation vehicles,  the China News Service  reported as the
regulation took effect yesterday.  Diseases related to smoking kill a million people a year in
the world’s most-populous nation and second-biggest economy,
according to the  Chinese Center for Disease Control and
Prevention . The toll may rise to 3.5 million by 2030, according
to a report co-written by Zhao Ping, deputy director general of
the Cancer Foundation of China.  More than half of Chinese men and 2.4 percent of women in
the country smoke, the center said.  The ban requires operators of public venues to prominently
exhibit “No smoking’” signs and to encourage their employees
to ask people not to smoke.  It’s “realistic to demand” that business owners play a
larger role in dissuading smokers in public places, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported April 29, citing Yang Gonghuan,
director of the China’s National Office of Tobacco Control.  Fines or punishment for breaking the ban aren’t prescribed
by the new rules.  City Survey  In a survey of 20 residents in the central Chinese city of
 Zhengzhou , conducted by the Henan Business News, 16 said the new
rules wouldn’t affect the current practice of smoking in public
places. Some respondents who were smokers said they wouldn’t
obey the ban, the newspaper reported April 29.  The new rules are meant to “promote public awareness of
the harmful effects of smoking,” and for people to “gradually
accept the concept of smoking control,” Xinhua reported
separately April 29, citing Xie Yang, director of  Environmental
Health  in the Supervision Bureau of the Ministry of Health.  Some critics accuse China of doing too little to discourage
smoking because the state owns lucrative cigarette makers.  “Smoking rules are set by the same government agency that
regulates the tobacco industry,” Wu Yiqun, a health activist,
said in the China News Service report. “This is like letting a
player on one team also be the referee” and hampers efforts for
any sweeping prohibition, he said.  China needs comprehensive and effective bans on smoking in
public spaces, the report says, citing Wang Chengguang, a law
professor at  Tsinghua University .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  