-- 
China’s Manufacturing Grows at Slower Pace, Survey Shows

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-01T02:48:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/china-s-manufacturing-grows-at-slower-pace-survey-shows-1-.html
A Chinese manufacturing index fell
after the government raised  interest rates  and lenders’ reserve
requirements and allowed gains in the yuan to pick up pace.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 52.9 in April from
53.4 in March,  China ’s logistics federation and the statistics
bureau said in an e-mail today. That was below a median forecast
of 53.9 in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists.  China’s economic expansion, a driver of global growth, may
moderate as the government counters the fastest inflation since
2008 and cools a real-estate market that has been at risk of
price bubbles. Credit Suisse Group AG says a fifth increase
in benchmark interest rates since the global financial crisis
may come as early as tomorrow, a Chinese holiday, less than a
month after the previous move.  “Growth has been cooled a bit but inflationary pressures
have not been meaningfully alleviated,”  Qu Hongbin , the Hong
Kong-based chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said
before today’s release. “While aggressive tightening seems
unlikely, Beijing does need to keep the current pace of
tightening for another three to four months to tame inflation.”  Zhang Liqun , a senior researcher at the State Council’s
Development Research Center, said in today’s statement that the
latest numbers show an increased likelihood that economic growth
will slow. Gross domestic product expanded 9.7 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier and the  World Bank  last week
forecast a full-year expansion of 9.3 percent.  ‘Very Bullish’  An executive at billionaire investor  Warren Buffett ’s
Burlington Northern Santa Fe expressed confidence that the Asian
nation will continue to maintain a pace of growth that bolsters
the global expansion.  “I’m very, very bullish about the recovery,”  Matt Rose ,
chief executive officer of the railroad business, said yesterday
in an interview in Omaha,  Nebraska . “It’s really driven by
worldwide demand, specifically China.”  China’s consumer prices jumped 5.4 percent in March,
compared with the government’s full-year target of 4 percent.
Premier  Wen Jiabao  aims to restrain inflation that he describes
as a “tiger” -- once out of control, difficult to tame --
while also boosting private consumption and shifting the economy
from an excessive dependence on exports and investment.  The  International Monetary Fund  indicated last week that
the premier may be winning the battle to contain prices.  Supply Shocks  “The current episode of inflation does not look like a
bout of generalized overheating, with China’s strong growth
beginning to bump up against capacity constraints,” the IMF said
in a report. “Barring future supply shocks either domestically
or in global commodity markets, inflation in China is likely to
return toward the low single digits in the second half of 2011.”  The yuan strengthened beyond 6.5 per dollar for the first
time since 1993 on April 29 as the U.S. currency slid. A
stronger yuan may help to cool inflation by effectively making
imports cheaper.  The logistics federation said today’s data showed an
“appropriate adjustment” in growth as the nation alters the
structure of its economy. Export orders and input prices grew at
a slower pace, while an index of output was little changed from
the level in March.  Coal and electricity supplies are tight, according to some
companies, a situation that needs to be monitored, the logistics
group said in a separate statement on its website.  The survey released today was of 820 companies in 28
industries, such as textiles and oil processing. A separate PMI,
released by  Markit Economics  and HSBC, had indicated that
manufacturing grew at the same pace in April as in March. That
survey covered more than 430 companies.  --Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  and Nerys Avery in Beijing, with
assistance from Huang Zhe and Feiwen Rong. Editors: Paul Panckhurst,  Jim McDonald .  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Nerys Avery at +86-10-6649-7558 or
 navery2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  