-- 
China’s Growth May Moderate as PMI Shows Slower Expansion in Manufacturing

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-01T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/china-s-growth-may-moderate-as-pmi-shows-slower-expansion-in-manufacturing.html
A Chinese manufacturing index declined
in April from March, indicating that growth may moderate in the
world’s second-biggest economy after the government raised
 interest rates  and allowed faster gains in the yuan.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 52.9 from 53.4,
 China ’s logistics federation and the statistics bureau said in
an e-mail yesterday. That was below a median forecast of 53.9 in
a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government aims to counter the fastest
inflation since 2008 and cool a real-estate market that has been
at risk of price bubbles. Credit Suisse Group AG says the
nation’s fifth increase in benchmark rates since the global
financial crisis may come as early as today, a Chinese holiday,
less than a month after the previous move.  “This slowdown won’t pose a concern as it indicates that
Beijing’s tightening measures are taking effect,” said Liu Li-Gang, an economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
in Hong Kong who has worked for the  World Bank . “The moderation
in economic growth could help to ease inflationary pressure, and
inflation should gradually slow in the coming few months.”  Zhang Liqun , a senior researcher at the State Council’s
Development Research Center, said in yesterday’s statement that
the data show an increased likelihood that growth will slow.
Gross domestic product expanded 9.7 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier and the World Bank last week forecast a
full-year expansion of 9.3 percent.  Global Recovery  The survey released yesterday was of 820 companies in 28
industries, such as textiles and oil processing. A separate PMI,
released by  Markit Economics  and HSBC Holdings Plc, had
indicated that manufacturing grew in April at the same pace as
in March. That survey covered more than 430 companies.  An executive at billionaire investor  Warren Buffett ’s
Burlington Northern Santa Fe expressed confidence that the Asian
nation will continue to maintain a pace of growth that bolsters
the global expansion.  “I’m very, very bullish about the recovery,”  Matt Rose ,
chief executive officer of the railroad business, said April 30
in an interview in Omaha,  Nebraska . “It’s really driven by
worldwide demand, specifically China.”  China’s consumer prices jumped 5.4 percent in March,
compared with the government’s full-year target of 4 percent.
Premier Wen Jiabao aims to restrain inflation that he describes
as a “tiger” that once out of control is difficult to tame,
while also boosting private consumption and shifting the economy
from an excessive dependence on exports and investment.  The  International Monetary Fund  indicated last week that
the premier may be winning the battle to contain prices.  Supply Shocks  “The current episode of inflation does not look like a
bout of generalized overheating, with China’s strong growth
beginning to bump up against capacity constraints,” the IMF
said in a report. “Barring future supply shocks either
domestically or in global commodity markets, inflation in China
is likely to return toward the low single digits in the second
half of 2011.”  The yuan strengthened beyond 6.5 per dollar for the first
time since 1993 on April 29 as the U.S. currency slid. A
stronger yuan may help to cool inflation by effectively making
imports cheaper.  The logistics federation said yesterday’s data showed an
“appropriate adjustment” in growth as the nation alters the
structure of its economy. Export orders and input prices grew at
a slower pace, while an index of output was little changed from
the level in March.  Coal and electricity supplies are tight, according to some
companies, a situation that needs to be monitored, the logistics
group said in a separate statement on its website.  --Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  and Nerys Avery in Beijing, with
assistance from Huang Zhe and Feiwen Rong. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Linus Chua.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Nerys Avery at +86-10-6649-7558 or
 navery2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  