-- 
Codelco Waning Copper Pressures $17.5 Billion Bet to Catch Boom

-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 
2011-05-01T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/codelco-waning-copper-pressures-17-5-billion-bet-to-catch-boom.html
Andres Avendano steps out of his
Toyota Hilux pickup halfway down a 20-kilometer-long tunnel
under Chile’s Chuquicamata copper mine. He lifts a cylindrical
chunk of rock from the diamond-bit-studded drilling machine that
extracted the sample.  “The copper is quite disseminated,” Avendano says,
adjusting the light from his white hard hat to identify a
sprinkling of gold-colored specks. In the mine’s early days, a
similar specimen would have been brimming with the metal, he
says.  Avendano, 33, who is in charge of mine design, and
geologists from government-owned copper giant Codelco are
searching around the clock for  new deposits  at Chuquicamata,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its June issue. The
complex, 1,650 kilometers (1,025 miles) north of Santiago in the
Atacama Desert, is so massive the open pit is visible from
space.  The copper they’re hunting is becoming scarcer -- and more
expensive -- just as more people in the developing world are
demanding cars, TVs and modern trappings like iPads that use it
and builders are relying on its ability to conduct electricity
and heat for new houses and offices.  Chile, the world’s biggest copper producer, risks missing
out unless Codelco can update mines built in the early 1900s.
For the past 30 years, the country has let Chuquicamata and
three other copper mines languish.  ‘Slow to Make Decisions’  Australian giant  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s Escondida mine
 overtook  Chuquicamata as Chile’s largest in 1996.  Escondida  now
produces more than 1 million tons a year on Chilean soil, about
double Chuquicamata’s output. Annual production at Codelco,
which sits on 10 percent of the world’s copper reserves, has
fallen in five of the past six years.  “They are very slow to make decisions,” says Wayne Atwell, managing director at New York-based  Casimir Capital LP ,
who has visited Chilean mines 10 times in the past 30 years.
“Their middle management probably has two to three times as
many people as they should have.”  China ’s copper appetite is driving the boom. Prices soared
to a record $10,190 a metric ton on Feb. 15. On April 28, copper
was trading at $9,320. It may drop as low as $8,500 before
rocketing to $11,000 by Dec. 31 amid the biggest shortages since
2004, according to a Bloomberg survey of 24 analysts and
traders.  China already consumes about 40 percent of the global
supply. It will use 8 percent more this year as it begins
constructing 36 million affordable homes and expanding its urban
footprint, state research firm  Beijing Antaike Information
Development Co.  predicts.  ‘We Can’t Delay’  “There are not a lot of copper deposits in the world,”
says Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion at
BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham, Alabama. “When you find
one, it does take time to develop and bring production
onstream.”  Diego Hernandez , the new Codelco chief executive officer
that Chile’s billionaire President Sebastian Pinera recruited
from BHP in April 2010, says he has overhauled senior management
and is moving down the ranks. Now, the task is to make up for
chronic underinvestment.  “We can’t delay anything; we have to do it now,” says
Hernandez, 62, in Codelco’s Santiago office, which has displays
of prehistoric tradable copper ingots.  Pharaonic Feats  Pinera is backing the copper revival. While unveiling an
expansion at the El Teniente mine in the Andes Mountains on
Sept. 8, he promised to invest $15 billion in Codelco during the
next five years. Hernandez has since said Codelco needs $17.5
billion.  As ore diminishes in Chuquicamata’s pit and the threat of
landslides makes further digging less profitable, Codelco will
spend $2.2 billion through 2019 to develop deposits below
ground. Without the money, Chuquicamata will run out of copper
by decade’s end, Avendano says.  To prevent that calamity, Hernandez is proposing pharaonic
feats. Codelco will build two 7-kilometer-long tunnels to tap
ore buried as deep as the height of two and a half Eiffel Towers
beneath the current pit. Underground crushers will break up
140,000 tons of rock a day. The industry’s longest conveyor will
haul rock to the surface. The largest air-injection system in
mining will ventilate the shaft at a rate of 8 million cubic
feet (230,000 cubic meters) per minute. More than 4,000 workers
will man the site.  Mine Rescue  Chile’s mining endeavors riveted global attention last year
when 33 men were trapped half a mile below the Atacama for more
than two months. They all were saved in the world’s longest-
running mine rescue effort. Codelco engineers led a government
team in charge of the mission.  Hernandez’s expansion plan requires more than extraordinary
manpower and engineering. Codelco and Chile’s government will
have to break with their past neglect, says Grimaldo Ponce, a
supervisors union leader who is retiring this year after more
than three decades at Chuquicamata.  Ponce, 69, says he’s not sure the new plan will actually
happen.  “We have always had this problem that the money isn’t
there to invest,” he says. “Codelco is slowly dying every day
because there is no money.”  BB&T’s Hellwig is betting that Codelco’s copper will stay
underground for lack of investment.  ‘Game Is Called China’  “Like all state-owned enterprises, they exist to provide
 cash flow  to the government,” he says of Codelco. “All too
frequently, that is at the expense of the business.”  Chile’s government taps Codelco revenue that topped $13
billion last year to fund social programs and boost its
 sovereign wealth funds , which totaled $16.6 billion in 2010.  Juan Villarzu, who ran Codelco from 1994 to 1996 and from
2000 to 2006, says the board blocked him from expanding even
after he saw in 2003 that China was on the verge of explosive
growth.  “I said, ‘Look, guys, the game is called China,’” he
recalls telling the board. Directors at the time included
Chile’s finance minister and members of the armed forces, which
get 10 percent of Codelco’s sales.  Chile is already enmeshed in another rebuilding project
following the 8.8-magnitude earthquake that struck on Feb. 27,
2010, a week before Pinera became president. Pinera has been
using sovereign-wealth-fund money, raising taxes and selling
state assets to come up with $8.4 billion for reconstruction.  Cash Machine  Codelco is a tempting cash machine in lean economic times.
It generates about 13 percent of government revenue, Hernandez
says. Even with its mines depleted, Codelco sold $13.5 billion
of copper last year, 30 percent more than the $10.3 billion in
2009.  The revenue is helping put Chile on course to become  Latin
America ’s most prosperous nation. It will have Latin America’s
highest gross domestic product per capita this year,
leapfrogging Uruguay, the  International Monetary Fund  says.  Pinera says his support for Codelco will proceed -- even
amid national hardships.  “We need to find the equilibrium in making that investment
and not holding back and leaving the riches below the earth,”
he said in September. “Codelco is a company with a lot of
experience, but above all, it’s a company with a big future.”  Raising Debt  Still, Pinera isn’t handing over the cash. Instead, he has
told Codelco to raise capital in international financial markets
before the government considers reinvesting profits back into
the company.  “Where raising debt is possible, while maintaining our
investment grade, we are going to make that the first
alternative,” Mining and Energy Minister  Laurence Golborne 
says.  Copper buyers in China -- and the rest of the world -- are
counting on Codelco.  “There is a demand for copper, and a company like Codelco
needs to invest so that it’s doing more than just replacing its
declining volumes,” says Joe Bormann, a Chicago-based managing
director at Fitch Ratings.  Fitch upgraded Codelco and the Chilean government’s long-
term credit rating to A+ in early February, the fifth highest of
Fitch’s 10 investment grades and the best in Latin America for a
resource company.  ‘Freeze the Projects’  Villarzu, who’s now chairman of Vancouver-based exploration
company  AQM Copper Inc. (AQM) , says he’d planned to raise Codelco’s
production to 2.3 million metric tons a year by 2009 from an
average of about 1 million tons during his first tenure. The
board balked at the expense. Last year, production was 1.76
million tons.  “Essentially, what they did was freeze the projects,”
says Villarzu, sitting in a restaurant in the Las Condes area of
Santiago, which is nicknamed Sanhattan because of its
skyscrapers.  Codelco, like its rivals, is also fighting battles with
nature in the Atacama. BHP is trying to expand Escondida in the
desert, where water to separate copper from sterile rock is
scarce. Escondida’s production has slid for three consecutive
years because of diminishing ore quality.  Codelco, BHP,  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , Rio Tinto Group and
others are competing for engineers and for tires for mining
trucks.  ‘World Trend’  Banco de Chile CEO Arturo Tagle says Codelco should have
looked to  Brazil  as a mining mentor. That nation opened  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , its former state-owned  oil company , and  Vale SA (VALE5) ,
its former state-owned mining company, to private capital.  “We would be following the world trend taking this path,”
Tagle says. “The best time to sell something is when it is
generating a lot of profit.”  Chile’s richest family, headed by brothers Andronico,
Guillermo and Jean-Paul Luksic, is defying the downward
production spiral.  Besides their majority interest in Banco de Chile, the
Luksics own 65 percent of  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) , which operates
Esperanza, Chile’s first new copper mine in three years. It
started producing this year less than 100 kilometers from
Chuquicamata and will turn out 190,000 tons in 2012, about
20,000 more than Codelco’s  Ministro Hales  mine is expected to
yield when it begins producing copper in the last quarter of
2013.  When the Guggenheim family began looking for copper in the
early 1900s, Chile’s deposits were there for the taking. The
Guggenheims formed Chile Exploration Co. and went on to become
billionaires, using Chuquicamata’s wealth to erect the family’s
iconic  art museum  in  New York .  ‘Che’ Guevara  Guerrilla leader Ernesto “Che” Guevara documented the
conditions of peasant workers who migrated from Chile’s greener
south to work in the harsh desert mines in the 1950s.  In 1966, Chile’s congress passed a law that gave the state
a 51 percent interest in the mines, then owned by U.S. companies
Anaconda Corp. and Kennecott Corp. Socialist President Salvador Allende nationalized Chile’s copper industry outright in 1971.
Military dictator Augusto Pinochet, who overthrew Allende in a
1973 coup, didn’t return the mines to their former owners and
created Codelco in 1976.  Since then, the state-owned company has been slow to bring
new mines into production, Casimir’s Atwell says. It opened the
Radomiro Tomic mine in 1995 and Gabriela Mistral in 2008.  “If they make decisions, they can get criticized,” says
Atwell, who has tracked the industry since 1969. “If they don’t
make decisions, then nobody can criticize them for making the
wrong decision.”  Hernandez at Helm  Pinera proposed selling part of Codelco to private
investors when he embarked on his presidential campaign in 2009.
He dropped the plan from his platform and now backs a bill to
abolish the Pinochet-created law that transfers one-tenth of
Codelco’s revenue to the army each year.  The bulk of the Codelco resurrection rests with Hernandez,
who studied mine engineering at the  Ecole Nationale Superieure
des Mines de Paris . At BHP, he helped boost copper production 26
percent to 1.2 million tons in the year ended in June 2009 from
the same period in 2004, when he became head of the company’s
base-metals division.  Hernandez says Codelco has more room for progress than most
publicly traded rivals because it hasn’t been run as
efficiently.  ‘Quite Substantial’  He has announced that 2,200 workers accepted the company’s
voluntary retirement plan, reducing a workforce that totaled
19,347 in 2010. He has replaced mine managers and named new
executives, including Chief Financial Officer Thomas Keller,
formerly a managing director at Toronto-based  Brookfield Asset
Management Inc. (BAM)   “The improvement in results could be quite substantial,”
Hernandez says.  In the past, Chile’s government shunned the type of
investment Pinera is pledging because benefits wouldn’t turn up
until the president had left office, Hernandez says.  These days, Codelco is in a stronger position to invest and
raise capital because of surging copper prices. He predicts
copper will average about $4 a pound next year -- or $8,819 a
ton.  Rivals are plowing ahead to reap that bounty. London-based
Anglo American and Rio Tinto and others will spend $42 billion
to quadruple neighboring Peru’s copper output by 2020, Peruvian
Energy and Mines Minister Pedro Sanchez Gamarra said on March 9.  In  Mongolia , Rio Tinto plans to start operating its Oyu
Tolgoi mine with Vancouver-based Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. by 2012.
Antofagasta, along with  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , is pursuing a new
copper and gold mining district in  Pakistan  near its border with
 Afghanistan .  Avendano, the engineer who’s scouring Chuquicamata for new
deposits, says there’s life in that old mine yet. He points to
the walls around him, noting copper-rich rock in a 500-meter-
wide fault line that runs down the spine of the Andes. The
millions counting on Chile’s rich lode are hoping the
government’s will to invest and the billions of dollars pledged
for Codelco don’t run out before the copper does.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts in  Buenos Aires  at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  