-- 
Commodities Beat Financial Assets for Fifth Month in Best Streak Since ’97

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-05-02T05:19:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/commodities-beat-financial-assets-for-fifth-month-in-best-streak-since-97.html
Commodities beat stocks, bonds and the
dollar for a fifth straight month, the longest stretch in at
least 14 years, as demand for raw materials increases with
expanding economies and  Federal Reserve  promises to boost growth.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24
commodities climbed 4.4 percent in April, after reaching the
highest level since October 2008. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities advanced 3.9 percent, the most since December,
and the U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge against six counterparts,
fell 3.9 percent, touching a 33-month low. Bonds of all types
returned 0.9 percent on average, based on Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled last week that he
will keep pumping record amounts of money into the world’s
largest economy and reiterated a pledge first made two years ago
to keep  interest rates  “exceptionally low.” The U.S., the
biggest oil consumer, will expand 3.2 percent this quarter, from
1.8 percent in the previous three months, and accelerate through
the end of the year, according to the median of 73 economists’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re in a risk-on mode being helped by Bernanke,” said
 Arjuna Mahendran , the Singapore-based head of investment
strategy for  Asia  at  HSBC Private Bank , part of  Europe ’s largest
bank by market value. The stimulus means “big walls of money
going into commodities, stocks and emerging markets,” he said.  The S&P GSCI Total Return Index rallied for an eighth month,
the longest winning streak since 2004 when growth in the  U.S.
economy  drove demand for raw materials. Silver, coffee, cocoa
and gasoline led the gains in percentage terms in April.  Oil, Gold  Crude oil, which represents more than half the  index ,
gained 6.8 percent in New York trading and 7.3 percent in  London ,
amid concern that riots and conflict across northern  Africa  and
the Middle East would disrupt supplies. Libyan output sank to
390,000 barrels a day in March, from 1.39 million in February,
according to Bloomberg estimates.  Gold and silver reached records in April as investors
sought to hedge financial assets against a weakening dollar and
accelerating inflation. Gold advanced 32 percent in the past
year and is set for its 11th annual gain, while silver more than
doubled as investors increased their holdings in exchange-traded
products to a record 15,518 metric tons on April 26.  Consumer prices in  China , the biggest user of everything
from copper to  iron ore , gained 5.4 percent in March, the most
since 2008, while the cost of living in the U.S. rose at its
fastest pace since December 2009 in the 12 months ended in March.  Bin Laden , Silver  Crude dropped as much as 1.5 percent today, the most in two
weeks, after President  Barack Obama  said al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden had been killed, boosting expectations that risks of
supply disruptions in the Middle East will ease. Silver had its
biggest intraday drop since October 2008 after CME Group Inc.
increased futures margins. Cotton futures plunged 21 percent in
April, also the most since October 2008.  “The key reason commodities outperformed stocks and bonds
is the weak dollar,” said  Evan Smith  in  San Antonio , who helps
manage $1 billion at U.S. Global Investors Inc. “Commodities
will continue to outperform stocks and bonds. Over the next
three to six months, we don’t see a backstop for the dollar.”  The Dollar Index had its worst month since September and
the currency weakened against all 16 of its major peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  New Zealand dollar 
appreciated 6.3 percent, the euro 4.6 percent and the Japanese
yen 2.3 percent, the data show.  ‘Dovish’ Bernanke  Bernanke said April 27 that the end of the Fed’s $600
billion bond-buying program in June probably won’t have a
“significant” effect on financial markets or the economy, and
the central bank will likely continue reinvesting proceeds from
maturing debt after June.  “He’s remarkably dovish, dismissing inflation,” said
Anthony Valeri, a San Diego-based market strategist at LPL
Financial Corp., which manages $293 billion. “It does keep
pressure on the dollar.”  The Fed’s program to bolster the economy, which has been in
place since the 2008 financial crisis, contrasts with China,
which raised borrowing costs four times since October and
increased reserve requirements 10 times since the start of 2010
to tame the fastest inflation since 2008.  Bonds worldwide returned the most since August, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Within that market,
corporate bonds handed investors 1.3 percent and government debt
returned 0.8 percent, the gauges show.  Goldman, Dow Chemical  The MSCI All-Country World Index reached 356.9 points on
April 29, extending this year’s gain to 7.9 percent. The  S&P 500
Index (SPX)  advanced 2.9 percent in April, the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
2.9 percent and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index 2.7 percent. Stocks
worldwide added $2 trillion of market capitalization in the
month, the most since December, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Companies from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Dow Chemical Co.
to Ford Motor Co. beat estimates in the earnings season that
began April 11, when Alcoa Inc. reported a return to profit. Of
the 298 members of the S&P 500 Index that reported since then,
76 percent exceeded expectations.  Profit growth “bolstered investors’ appetite for taking on
additional risk,” said Chad Morganlander, a  Florham Park , New
Jersey-based money manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which
oversees $110 billion of assets. “In this current environment
over the next several months the economic numbers as well as the
credit markets will continue to show a favorable trend, which
will entice investors.”  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of U.S.
consumer confidence rose to 69.8 in April from the lowest level
in more than a year. Payrolls expanded for six consecutive
months and the  unemployment rate  dropped for four months, U.S.
government data show. European services and manufacturing growth
accelerated last month, with a Markit Economics index based on a
survey of purchasing managers rising to 57.8 from 57.6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  