-- 
Conrad Says ‘Gang of Six’ Debt Talks Making ‘Enormous’ Progress

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-05-01T15:47:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/conrad-says-gang-of-six-debt-talks-making-enormous-progress.html
A bipartisan group of lawmakers
attempting to hash out a plan to reduce the government’s budget
deficits has made “enormous” progress and may be able to
present a proposal soon, Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad  said.  Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat and a member of the so-
called “Gang of Six,” said on “Fox News Sunday” that the
group needs to reach agreement soon to have an impact on the
debate about what spending changes are needed to win approval
for increasing the federal debt limit.  “We’ve made enormous progress in that group and I hope
that we’re able to announce an agreement soon; if we don’t we’re
simply not going to be relevant because this debate marches
on,” Conrad said. “I’ve spent five months in this negotiation.
I wouldn’t have spent all this time if I didn’t think there was
a serious chance of reaching an agreement.”  He declined to describe the elements of the plan under
consideration.  Congress returns to work this week from its Easter recess
facing a vote to raise the government’s $14.3 trillion debt
limit, which the Treasury has said will be necessary by early
July. A number of lawmakers in both parties said they won’t vote
for the increase without major cuts in the government’s budget.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, said he doubted lawmakers would reach an agreement
on a comprehensive plan to fix the budget.  No ‘Grand Slam’  “We’re probably not going to get some grand-slam agreement
that fixes all of these problems,” he said on ABC’s “This Week
with  Christiane Amanpour .” Using a baseball analogy, Ryan said
his hope now “is to get a single or a double, to get something
done that gets us on the right path.”  On NBC’s “Meet the Press,” New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said Democrats and Republicans must understand that
balancing the federal budget will involve a combination of
spending cuts and increased revenue.  “We need leadership in the front,” Bloomberg said. “We
need politicians to come forward and say this is in the interest
of the country.” Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Minnesota Republican Representative  Michele Bachmann , a
supporter of the anti-tax, anti-government Tea Party movement,
said that, while she generally backs Republican budget plans,
she has “put an asterisk” on her support for proposed cuts in
the Medicare health program for the elderly.  Medicare ‘Asterisk’  “One position I’m concerned about is shifting the cost
burden to senior citizens,” Bachmann said on the “Fox News
Sunday” program. “Seniors are saying, ‘Look, I’m not in a
position to be able to handle that.’ I also share that real
fear. That’s why I put the asterisk out there.”  Amid debate about the deficit in  Washington , bond market
yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government was
running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even though Treasury
Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to more than $9 trillion from about $4.3
trillion in mid-2007. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note is
below the average of 5.48 percent in 1998 through 2001, the last
time the U.S. had a budget surplus, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  Ten-year yields declined two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.29 percent on April 29 and touched 3.28
percent, the least since March 23, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. They fell 18 basis points in April in the first
monthly drop since sliding 44 basis points in August, and slid
10 basis points last week.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  projects annual
interest payments on the debt will more than quadruple over the
coming decade to more than $900 billion, topping the budget for
the Defense Department and becoming one of the single biggest
expenditures in the federal budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  