-- 
Dubai Support Fund to Offer Loans to Non-Government Entities Amid Crunch

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-05-01T10:04:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/dubai-financial-support-fund-to-provide-loans-to-non-government-entities.html
Dubai’s ruler amended a law to allow
the emirate’s $20 billion fund to offer loans to non-government
entities as the Persian Gulf business hub battles a debt crisis.  The Dubai Financial Support Fund "will grant loans and
credit facilities to government and non-government entities,"
according to a  statement  posted on Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum’s website today. Any entity that "wishes to benefit
from the fund should submit all necessary assurances to honor
their obligations to the fund," it said.  Dubai set up the fund in July 2009 to help state-owned
companies after the global financial crisis froze credit markets
and led to a slump in the emirate’s property industry. The
sheikhdom raised $10 billion by selling bonds to the  United Arab
Emirates ’ central bank in February 2009. It also raised another
$10 billion from bond sales to Abu Dhabi government and state-
controlled banks to complete the fund, which was set up with
advice from N.M. Rothschild & Sons Ltd.  The amendment allows the fund to issue "permits, bonds and
any other financial instruments, on behalf of the government,
within Dubai and beyond so as to provide financial liquidity
necessary to finance projects" to meet government and non-
government obligations, according to today’s statement. The fund
may also "invest in commercial projects, establish investment
funds and manage commercial institutions and companies
independently or jointly," it said.  Debt  Dubai spent billions of dollars since 2002 on developing
its property industry and transforming itself into a tourism,
trade and financial-services hub. In the process, the emirate
and its state-owned companies ran up debt of at least $129.3
billion, according to estimates by Credit Suisse Group AG.  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-
controlled holding companies and property developer Nakheel PJSC
have received money from the fund. Dubai World signed a final
agreement with its creditors in March to restructure about $25
billion of debt.  Dubai last month hired four banks including Citigroup Inc.
to raise $800 million in financing backed by road-toll receipts
to help fund transport projects in the emirate. The government
aims to cut spending this year in a bid to shrink its budget
deficit and forecasts a gap of 3.78 billion dirhams ($1 billion)
for the year, down from 5.99 billion dirhams projected for 2010,
it said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  