-- 
Weidmann May Follow in Weber’s Bundesbank Footsteps as ECB Changes Guard

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-05-02T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/ecb-s-new-blood-may-spell-faster-rate-increases-as-draghi-eyes-presidency.html
New Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
signaled he may be as much of an inflation hawk as his
predecessor Axel Weber, using his first speech to call for more
policy tightening by the  European Central Bank .  One of the ECB’s key challenges is to “formulate a return
to monetary policy normality,” Weidmann said in Frankfurt
yesterday after replacing Weber at the helm of Germany’s central
bank. “Short-term crisis measures can, when administered as a
long-term medication, be associated with considerable side
effects,” he said, echoing Weber, one of the most ardent
inflation fighters at the ECB.  “Weidmann will certainly follow in Weber’s footsteps,”
said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels.
“But initially it will be a challenge for him to establish his
position among the old boys at the ECB.”  Weidmann is one of up to seven changes on the ECB’s 23-
member Governing Council in a year marked by the retirement of
President  Jean-Claude Trichet . The new generation of central
bankers under the likely leadership of Italy’s Mario Draghi will
reinforce the ECB’s resolve to stamp out inflation, say
economists at Citigroup Inc. and  Societe Generale  SA.  “In the short-term, the ECB may turn more hawkish,” said
 Klaus Baader , co-chief euro-area economist at Societe Generale
in  London . “Draghi will want to show he’s not lax about
inflation risks and the new members will keep their voices down,
strengthening the influence of established hawks like chief
economist  Juergen Stark .”  Chicago  Germany, the only one of the four biggest euro countries
yet to endorse Draghi, lost its favored candidate for the job
when Weber in February unexpectedly announced his decision to
step down. Weber, an economics professor, will join the
University of Chicago to teach a course on central banking.  Weidmann, previously Chancellor Angela Merkel’s chief
economic adviser, is likely to support further ECB rate
increases to curb mounting inflation pressures, said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at Citigroup in London.  “Weidmann won’t rank behind Weber in terms of hawkishness,”
said Michels. “It also doesn’t seem that the successors of
outgoing council members will be less focused on inflation
fighting.”  ECB Exodus  In April, Luc Coene replaced  Guy Quaden  at the head of
Belgium’s central bank. Next month Peter Praet, another Belgian,
will succeed Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell on the ECB’s Executive
Board, whose six members together with the central bankers of
the 17 euro nations comprise the Governing Council.  In July, Malta’s central bank governor Michael Bonello will
be replaced by Josef Bonnici, and Nout Wellink will step down as
head of the Dutch central bank. Lex Hoogduin, 54, has been
tipped by academics and bank officials as his likely
replacement.  The selection of Draghi to succeed Trichet, whose term ends
on Oct. 31, may force two further changes.  Italy  would need to appoint a new governor to join the
ECB’s council in Draghi’s stead, and Lorenzo Bini Smaghi would
probably have to make way for a new French policy maker on the
Executive Board to avoid Italy dominating the ECB’s top
decision-making body.  Estonia’s adoption of the euro on Jan. 1 saw  Andres Lipstok 
join the ECB council this year, bringing the potential number of
new faces to eight.  ‘Too Accommodative’  ECB policy makers, who raised the benchmark rate by a
quarter point to 1.25 percent last month, next convene on May 5
in Helsinki. Some economists expect them to signal that another
move will come as soon as June.  Monetary policy  is “still too accommodative,” Coene said
in an interview on April 18, striking a tougher tone than his
predecessor Quaden, who on March 31 endorsed a “cautious” rate
increase.  Draghi has also sharpened his language. While Trichet said
last month’s rate step wasn’t necessarily the start of a series,
Draghi signaled more to come. “Monetary policy must take into
account the emergence of inflationary tensions, pushed by rising
food and energy prices,” he said on April 13.  Most economists and investors predict two more quarter-
point increases in the ECB’s benchmark rate this year, taking it
to 1.75 percent.  “We believe the ECB has to raise  interest rates  higher
than markets expect,”  Andrew Bosomworth , a  fund manager  at
Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote in a guest commentary
for  Germany ’s Boersen-Zeitung on April 28. “The ECB’s benchmark
rate is still too low in light of economic growth and inflation
expectations.”  Faster Inflation  Inflation, which the ECB aims to keep just below 2 percent,
accelerated to 2.8 percent last month. Incoming policy makers
will have to weigh that against the risk of inflaming the
sovereign debt crisis that’s afflicting peripheral nations such
as Ireland, Greece and Portugal.  As the representative of  Europe ’s largest economy, Weidmann
will be central to those deliberations. At 43, he is the
youngest president in the Bundesbank’s 54-year history and the
youngest ECB council member.  Fluent in English and French in addition to his native
German, Weidmann is a former student and protégé of Weber.
Yesterday, he indicated he shares many of Weber’s views.  Weidmann lauded the ECB’s focus on monetary aggregates as
an indicator of future inflation, and said the bank must keep
price stability as its primary goal. The Bundesbank’s “culture
of stability” will be maintained under his leadership, he
added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  