-- 
Elvis Is Behind Obama’s Birth-Certificate Cover-Up: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-05-01T15:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/elvis-controls-obama-birth-certificate-cover-up-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html
There is no evidence  Israel  had
anything to do with the Sept. 11 attacks. There isn’t a single
factoid suggesting  Dwight D. Eisenhower  was part of a Communist
conspiracy, nor is there proof that  Elvis Presley  today is
slinking through the back streets of Steubenville,  Ohio .  All these assertions are demonstrably true. Also, all are
loony questions, absurd to even ask.  So was the issue of Barack Obama’s birthplace. Yet the
president of the  United States  felt compelled to obtain a 1961
document and hold a White House news conference to reveal what
any rational person knew, and what was in the Hawaii newspapers
at the time of his birth: He was born in this country.  This raises two questions: should Obama have dignified the
fringe conspiracy buffs with a response, and how did the
falsehood ever gain any traction?  The birther charade was the province of Internet
conspirators and a few television bloviators for several years.
This year, some conservatives, at the state and federal level,
pushed anew, and serious party leaders, while not embracing it,
refuse to denounce these conspiracy peddlers.  In January, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia
Republican, was asked on television about the birthers, and said
he didn’t think it was an issue that “even needs to be on the
policymaking table right now whatsoever.” When pressed to
denounce those who were perpetrating the conspiracy theory or
talk about how crazy it was, he demurred, saying he wasn’t going
to “engage in name-calling.”  Trump Campaign  This spring, would-be Republican presidential candidate
 Donald Trump  made Obama’s citizenship a centerpiece of his
publicity stunt, and showed a stunning ability to attract
attention with it.  The president said it had dominated coverage two weeks ago,
overshadowing important economic and fiscal issues. It really
didn’t. In the mainstream media, according to a study by the  Pew
Research Center’s Project for Excellence  in Journalism, it
comprised about 4 percent of coverage, much less than the
economic story.  And over the past two months, a search in the two most
influential political newspapers in America, the  New York  Times
and the Washington Post, turns up dozens of stories, though many
were editorials, columns or news stories denouncing the issue.  Still, recent surveys suggest that almost half of
Republicans and more than a small number of independents
believed the U.S. president really might not be a legitimate
citizen. The best explanation, people who study these conspiracy
rumors say, is that this is a price of an unfiltered Internet.  ‘Giant Rumor Mill’  For all the advantages, the Internet also “serves as a
giant rumor mill,”  Bruce Bimber , a professor of political
science at the  University of California   Santa Barbara , and
 Richard Davis , a professor of political science at  Brigham Young
University , have written. “Political candidates,” they add,
“can easily become victims of these cybercascades.”  Jodi Dean , a political science professor at Hobart and
William Smith Colleges in Geneva, New York, says the Internet
“lets previously isolated groups gain currency. The wilder the
charge, the better it is for them.” And Michael Barkun, a
professor of political science at  Syracuse University , who
studies the culture of conspiracies, believes that nutty
theories like the birther issue “would surely have never gotten
the traction they currently have 25 or 30 years ago.”  Cable-News Fodder  The 24/7 cable-television industry feeds on this stuff.
MSNBC, the left-wing network, actually broadcast more stories on
the birth-certificate affair during the week that Obama had
cited, than any other channel. Although almost all of it was
meant to debunk the notion, it helped elevate it on the news
agenda.  On  Fox News , the right-wing cable network, a few prominent
commentators dismissed the birther conspiracy as whacky. Others,
like Sean Hannity, kept asking, if there was a birth certificate,
why doesn’t the White House “just produce it and we move on?”  The fact is that in 2008 Obama did produce what the state
of Hawaii certifies as a legitimate birth certificate for
passport and other purposes. More recently, he went to the
extraordinary lengths of asking the Hawaii Department of Health
to release copies of his long-form  birth certificate .  By this rationale, one of Hannity’s predecessors a half-
century ago, could have asked, “Why doesn’t President
Eisenhower release an affidavit swearing that he is not now, nor
ever has been, a dedicated, conscious agent of the Communist
conspiracy?”  Right Decision  Politicians still question whether Obama was smart to take
these unusual steps. One Democratic strategist says the best
case is the White House did it to elevate Trump in Republican
circles. Sure enough, the Donald afterward was crowing about his
great victory.  The news conference, however, did little to mollify the
conspiracy theorists, a number of whom seem to despise the first
African-American president.  As for Trump, he already has moved on to questioning how
Obama, who he charged had a poor record as an undergraduate, got
into  Harvard Law School . There were clear implications of racial
preferences.  Obama graduated magna cum laude from Harvard Law School,
was the editor of the Law Review, and later taught
constitutional law at the  University of Chicago . That’s not bad
for a guy who didn’t deserve to get into law school in the first
place.  Buckley and Russert  There are only limited ways to quell sleazy rumor-mongering
that gains traction. It would be nice if we could still rely on
figures like the conservative legend William F. Buckley, or the
dominant television interrogator Timothy J. Russert, both
deceased. Taking a decidedly non Cantor-esque approach in the
1960s, Buckley denounced the right-wing John Birch Society and
ran them out of the conservative movement. A half-hour of
informed and incisive questioning by Russert would have
demolished Trump.  Perhaps another means is ridicule. Instead of asking
proponents about the facts, simply inquire, are they
investigating the whereabouts of Elvis? Or, as hard as it would
be for some in the media, follow the advice of Professor Dean,
who suggests, “just don’t pay attention to them.”  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 