-- 
Payrolls Probably Rose for Seventh Month: U.S. Economy Preview

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-05-01T04:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/employers-in-u-s-probably-added-jobs-for-seventh-straight-month-in-april.html
Employment probably increased for a
seventh straight month in April, while manufacturing stayed at
the forefront of the expansion, economists said before reports
this week.  Payrolls rose by 190,000 workers last month after a 216,000
advance in March, according to the median forecast of 56
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of Labor Department
data on May 6. Other figures may show that both factories and
 service industries  expanded in April.  The employment growth points to a labor market that Federal
Reserve policy makers said last week is “improving gradually.”
Increased hiring by companies such as  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and wage
gains may help sustain spending as Americans contend with higher
food and fuel costs.  “We’ve entered this self-reinforcing phase where job gains
are going to continue to build upon themselves at an
accelerating pace,” said Sam Bullard, a senior economist at
 Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .
“Manufacturing has led this recovery and it looks like it’s
going to continue to do so, but the pace of growth going forward
is going to moderate somewhat.”  A report from the  Institute for Supply Management  tomorrow
may show that the purchasers’ factory index fell to 59.5 last
month from 61.2 in March, according to the survey median.
Readings above 50 signal factory expansion, and the measure in
February rose to 61.4, the highest level since May 2004.  The Labor Department’s report on employment may also show
that the jobless rate held at 8.8 percent in April, according to
the survey median. Unemployment has not increased since
November.  Private Employment  Private payrolls, which exclude government positions, are
forecast to rise 200,000 in April, according to the survey
median. The projected gain would cap the biggest three-month
increase since 2006. Manufacturing employment is forecast to
rise by 20,000, extending the longest string of monthly gains
since 1997 to 1998.  “The broader economy is in a moderate recovery, and we
have recently seen some welcome, if gradual, improvement in the
labor market,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an April 29
speech in Arlington, Virginia. “But our economy is far from
where we would like it to be, and many people and neighborhoods
are in danger of being left behind.”  Some companies are turning more optimistic about hiring.
 Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonald’s, the world’s largest
restaurant chain by revenue, sought as many as 50,000 workers in
the U.S. during its National Hiring Day event on April 19.  Ongoing Hiring  “We do and have continued to hire through some of the
economic downturns, Donald Thompson, chief operating officer at
McDonald’s, said on an April 21 conference call.  The manufacturing industries that account for 11 percent of
the economy are likely to keep driving the expansion as
businesses replenish inventories and  China  and other emerging
markets boost imports of American-made goods.  Factory orders rose 1.9 percent in March after a 0.1
percent decline the previous month, economists forecast that the
Commerce Department will report on May 3.  Shares of manufacturers have outperformed the broader
market this year. The Standard & Poor’s Machinery Index has
increased 13 percent, compared with an 8.4 percent gain in the
 S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   Spending on U.S. construction may increase for the first
time since November, rising 0.4 percent in March, economists
said ahead of tomorrow’s report from the Commerce Department.
Expenditures on structures, both commercial and residential,
fell 1.4 percent in February.  Service Industry  Another report from the Institute for Supply Management,
due May 4, will show service industries expanded in April,
according to economists. The group’s index of non-manufacturing
companies was probably little changed at 57.4 after 57.3 in
March, the survey showed. Readings above 50 signal growth.  Americans may find it difficult to boost their spending as
they pay more for groceries and gas. Regular fuel was $3.91 a
gallon on April 28, the highest since July 2008, according to
AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization. Food costs rose
0.8 percent last month, the most since July 2008, consumer-price
index data from the Labor Department showed on April 15.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  