-- 
Five of Dow’s Top 10 Stocks Likely to Keep Rising: John Dorfman

-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 
2011-05-01T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/five-of-dow-s-top-10-stocks-likely-to-keep-rising-john-dorfman.html
With political unrest seething in the
Middle East and  oil prices  climbing,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  have been two of the strongest stocks in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  this year. Both have gained about 20
percent so far this year.  I like these energy companies’ stocks. Yet some of the
other top performers in the Dow leave me cold, including top-
ranked  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , up 23 percent, and Boeing Co., up 22
percent.  Here are my “buy,” “hold” or “sell” rankings on the
10 stocks that are the Dow’s leaders for the first four months
of 2011. Stock prices are rounded to the nearest dollar.  Caterpillar ($115, up 23 percent). Sell. I dislike this
stock for several reasons. As a major exporter, Caterpillar has
benefitted from a weakening dollar for most of the past nine
years. I suspect that trend has played out.  The Peoria, Illinois-based company has debt amounting to
more than twice stockholders’ equity.  And valuations are off-
putting. Caterpillar shares fetch 5.9 times book value
(corporate net worth per share) and 21 times the past four
quarters’ earnings. In my opinion, it’s too late to buy.  Boeing Co. (BA)  ($80, up 22 percent). Sell. Boeing stock has
been strong this year as airline traffic has picked up. Yet the
Chicago-based company has had an embarrassing year. Its new 787
airliner is coming to market three years late, if there are no
further delays. It was surprised by a hole that developed in the
fuselage of a Southwest Airlines Co. 737 jet last month. And the
 National Labor Relations Board  criticized the company for
possible “illegal retaliation” against union workers.  Exxon’s Profits  What bothers me more is that the company’s debt is almost
three times equity. And first-quarter revenue was $14.9 billion,
the lowest first-quarter figure since 2006.  Exxon ($88, up 20 percent). Buy. Exxon is the largest U.S.
oil company by market value. The Irving, Texas-based company is
also the most profitable among the 30 largest U.S. energy
companies, measured by return on total capital.  Friends in the oil business tell me that Exxon, because of
its operating prowess and financial muscle, generally gets its
pick of the best drilling locations and the best petroleum
geologists in the field. Even with its nice gain this year, the
stock sells for 12 times earnings. That’s modest compared with
the multiple of 14 for the Dow or 15.5 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  Good Balance Sheet  Chevron ($109, up 20 percent). Buy. Based in  San Ramon ,
 California , Chevron is the second-largest U.S. energy company by
market value. It has a strong balance sheet, with debt only 11
percent of stockholders’ equity. There’s not a lot of growth
here, or at Exxon either, for that matter. Yet profitability is
high: Chevron earned 19 percent on stockholders’ equity last
year.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  ($21, up 20 percent). Buy. Big pharmaceutical
companies have barren pipelines, the conventional wisdom says.
That doesn’t square that with the fact that New York-based
Pfizer has more than 100 drugs in clinical trials, including 25
in Phase 3, the most advanced. The stock sells for nine times
earnings and yields 3.8 percent in dividends.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  ($171, up 16
percent). Hold. IBM’s profitability is magnificent. Earnings for
the Armonk, New York-based company grew right through the
recession, set a record last year and should break it this year.
If I owned IBM I would hold it, but I wouldn’t deploy new money
into it. One reason: the stock sells for nine times book value.
I usually prefer a price/book multiple of two or less.  Mouse House Rules        Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  ($43, up 15 percent). Buy. In the past five
years, Disney increased earnings at a 7 percent annual clip.
Imagine what the Burbank, California, company could do in a good
economy.  People are used to evaluating Disney based on how its theme
parks are doing, but television these days is a bigger part of
Disney’s pie. It owns ABC Television Network, the Disney
Channel, and 80 percent of ESPN, among other media properties.  American Express Co. (AXP)  ($49, up 14 percent). Buy. New York-
based American Express appears solid following a recession-
induced bump. The company stayed profitable during the
recession, but at a reduced level. At $3.35 a share, earnings in
2010 missed the 2007 record by a penny. This year analysts
expect $3.82.  Too Expensive  DuPont Co. ($57, up 14 percent). Sell. DuPont, the chemical
maker with headquarters in Wilmington,  Delaware , has a few flaws
in my view. The company is cyclical -- no sin for a chemical
manufacturer, yet a potential concern nevertheless. That’s why I
would prefer to buy the stock when it’s cheap. It’s not a
bargain now. The shares trade at 16 times earnings and almost
five times book value. In addition, DuPont’s debt, which is a
bit more than stockholders’ equity, is higher than I like.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  ($90, up 14 percent). Sell. The
Hartford, Connecticut-based company’s three biggest units --
Pratt & Whitney aircraft engines, Otis elevators and Carrier air
conditioning all showed modest revenue declines from 2008
through 2010. Yet the stock sells for 17 times earnings. I like
the company, but regard the stock as untimely now.  Disclosure note: I own Pfizer for several clients and Exxon
Mobil for a few. I have no long or short positions, personally
or for clients, in the other stocks discussed in this week’s
column.  (John Dorfman, chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in  Boston ,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 John Dorfman  at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  