-- 
Gen-Probe Poised to Gain 33% as Profits Prove Superior: Real M&A

-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m ,   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-05-02T14:06:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/gen-probe-poised-to-gain-33-in-merger-as-profits-prove-superior-real-m-a.html
Gen-Probe Inc. (GPRO) , the tester of sexually
transmitted diseases that jumped 18 percent on speculation it
will be sold, may still be worth $1.3 billion more in a takeover
by  Novartis AG (NOVN)  or  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)   Gen-Probe, which makes diagnostic tests for gonorrhea and
human papillomavirus, reached a record last week after three
people familiar with the matter said it hired  Morgan Stanley (MS)  of
New York to find a buyer. A sale may command a “significant
premium,” Jefferies Group Inc. said. San Diego-based Gen-Probe
is twice as profitable per dollar of reinvested earnings as
rival  Qiagen NV (QGEN) , while its gross margin outstrips  Cepheid Inc. (CPHD) 
by 36 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With more than 60 percent of the STD-testing market and an
80 percent share of blood-bank screenings in the U.S., Gen-Probe
could fetch $5.3 billion, based on comparable diagnostic-
equipment deals, the data show. Potential bidders -- including
Novartis, Life Technologies,  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO)  and
 Danaher Corp. (DHR) , according to one person familiar the process --
also stand to profit from pending approvals of Gen-Probe’s HPV
and prostate cancer tests and a plan by the Obama administration
to extend health-care coverage, said Natixis Bleichroeder.  “Gen-Probe is best in class,” said Peter Lawson, a Mizuho
Securities analyst in New York. “What really makes Gen-Probe
stand out is its profitability and margins, which are
outstanding for the industry. It’s not surprising at all if they
were purchased.”  ‘Matter of Policy’  Michael Watts, a spokesman for Gen-Probe, declined to
comment, as did Tim Ingersoll at Life Technologies and  Thermo
Fisher ’s Ron O’Brien.  Eric Althoff  of Novartis said the company
doesn’t comment on market rumors and speculation. Danaher’s Matt McGrew didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment.  On April 28, Gen-Probe Chief Executive Officer Carl Hull
said on an earnings conference call that he was aware of the
Bloomberg News report and said “as a matter of policy we never
comment on marketplace rumors or speculation such as this.”  Initial bids for Gen-Probe are due in the next couple of
weeks, one of the people with knowledge of the sale, who
declined to be identified because the process is confidential,
said last week.  Gen-Probe jumped 13 percent to $79.61 on April 28,
eclipsing its previous high in October 2007. The shares advanced
4.2 percent more the next day to close at a record of $82.92.  The two-day, 18 percent rally boosted Gen-Probe’s market
value by $616 million to $4 billion last week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The shares rose 1.5 percent to $84.15 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market at 10:02 a.m. in  New York  today.  Shareholder Value  Diagnostic equipment and kit makers have fetched a median
of 27 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in takeovers in the last five years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Based on Gen-Probe’s Ebitda of $195.1 million in the past
12 months, its equity alone may command a price tag of $5.3
billion, the data show. That equals about $110 per share, or 33
percent more than its current stock market value.  Jon Wood, an analyst with Jefferies in New York, said in a
report to clients last week that Gen-Probe could get more than
$100 a share if it was sold to a strategic buyer.  “If it’s below $100, we would not even vote for the
deal,” said Paul Li, partner and healthcare analyst at
Baltimore-based Brown Advisory Holdings Inc., which oversees $24
billion and owns more than 500,000 Gen-Probe shares. “Our view
about this company is that it’s probably going to hit an
inflection point this year because so many new products are
getting approval.”  Return on Equity  Gen-Probe’s return on equity, a measure of how much it
earns for each dollar invested, climbed to 13.5 percent last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Qiagen, the
Venlo, Netherlands-based maker of disease-predicting tests, had
a return of 6.1 percent last year, the data show.  Gen-Probe also retained about 69 cents per dollar of
revenue after subtracting the cost of goods sold, higher than
the 51 percent gross margin at Cepheid, according to the data.
Sunnyvale, California-based Cepheid sells a device called
GeneXpert that detects both anthrax and tuberculosis.  New diagnostic devices will help Gen-Probe boost earnings,
according to Brian Weinstein, a Chicago-based analyst at William
Blair & Co. The Panther, a test-processing machine designed for
smaller labs, will be available for sale in the U.S. by the year
end, he said. The device is already sold in Europe.  FDA Approval  The company is waiting for the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to approve its HPV test, which would compete with
products sold by Qiagen,  Hologic Inc. (HOLX)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ,
according to Weinstein. Gen-Probe’s test for trichomonas was
approved last month, and it plans to release a prostate cancer
screening test.  “They’re kind of getting this whole pipeline at this point
that’s going to reaccelerate their growth,” Weinstein said.  Adjusted net income at Gen-Probe will increase 18 percent
next year and 20 percent in 2013, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s faster than Novartis,
Carlsbad, California-based Life Technologies, Danaher of
 Washington  or Thermo Fisher in Waltham, Massachusetts.  A plan by the U.S. government to extend health-care
benefits to more Americans may also increase Gen-Probe’s sales.  Signed into law by President  Barack Obama  a year ago, the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act requires that almost
all Americans obtain health-insurance coverage by 2014.  ‘Best Placed’  “If you look at the assets of the company and where the
company is going, Gen-Probe is one of the best placed,” said
Ashim Anand, a New York-based analyst at Natixis Bleichroeder.  Novartis of  Basel ,  Switzerland , may be the most likely
buyer, according to Brown Advisory’s Li. The company already
distributes Gen-Probe’s blood-screening equipment, a segment
that represents about 40 percent of Gen-Probe’s sales.  “There’s been rumors over the last several years that Gen-
Probe and Novartis may look to get together,” William Blair’s
Weinstein said. “It would be natural for Novartis to want to
bring that entire relationship in-house.”  Gen-Probe’s share in the U.S. in testing for sexually-
transmitted diseases is larger than Roche and  Franklin Lakes ,
New Jersey-based Becton, Dickinson & Co. combined, according to
Bill Bonello, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Minneapolis.  In  Europe , Gen-Probe has 20 percent of the market, where
Basel-based Roche is the dominant competitor.  Gen-Probe also provides eight out of every 10 blood
screenings domestically, he said.  ‘Huge New Growth’  “This is a company that today has a dominant, a leading
position in the molecular blood screening market and the
molecular testing for sexually transmitted diseases market,”
Bonello said. “But in its pipeline it has an HPV test in front
of the FDA right now, so a potential huge new growth area.”  It makes sense for Gen-Probe to put itself up for sale now,
as it seeks approval for its cervical cancer screening test,
according to Mizuho’s Lawson.  Hologic, the Bedford, Massachusetts-based medical-equipment
maker specializing in women’s health, bought Third Wave
Technologies Inc. in 2008 for $516.3 million before it won
approval for an experimental cervical cancer test, betting that
the FDA would authorize Madison, Wisconsin-based Third Wave’s
product. Hologic won approval to sell the tests in March 2009.  “It makes for an interesting parallel,” he said. For Gen-
Probe, “there is a risk, so why not sell into the hype as
opposed to waiting for an event,” he said.  Overall, there have been 8,169 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $821.9 billion, a 25 percent increase from
the $657.4 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at +1-212-617-2563 or  rgale5@bloomberg.net . 