-- 
Greeks Favor Selling Stakes in Government Companies, Poll Shows

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-05-01T08:23:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/greeks-favor-selling-stakes-in-government-companies-poll-shows.html
Most Greeks favor the sale of
government stakes in state-controlled companies as a way of
reducing debt, and they support ending guarantees of lifetime
jobs for civil servants, an opinion poll showed.  Seventy-four percent of the 514 Greeks surveyed by Public
Issue for  Kathimerini  newspaper said government asset sales were
imperative, compared with 21 percent who said they weren’t.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government has
announced a 50 billion-euro ($74 billion) target of revenue from
asset sales including holdings in  Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO)  and  Public Power Corp SA (PPC) , the former phone and
electricity monopolies.  Unionists at Athens-based Public Power said last week they
would hold rolling strikes to oppose the plan to reduce the
state’s stake to 34 percent from 51 percent.  Of those surveyed, 58 percent said Hellenic Telecom, now
controlled by  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , operated better under private
control than under the state. A majority said Olympic Airlines
SA and  Emporiki Bank SA (TEMP)  were run better after the state sold its
majority stakes.  Nearly seven in 10 of those questioned said they believed
boosting the role of the private sector rather than the state
sector would bring growth back to  Greece .  A majority of Greeks favored the government’s plan to sell
state participation in the country’s railway operator, casinos,
the gambling company  Opap SA (OPAP) ,  Attica Bank (TATT)  SA and Hellenic
Postbank SA, the poll showed. For power company PPC, 47 percent
said they favored a sale, compared with 40 percent in a 2008
survey.  Government workers shouldn’t have guaranteed jobs,
according to 58 percent of those questioned, compared with 37
percent who believed they should, the poll showed.  Public Issue conducted the survey between March 30 and
April 1. The margin of error is 4.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  