-- 
Heat Defeat Celtics Behind Wade’s 38 Points; Grizzlies Win in NBA Playoffs

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-02T04:50:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/grizzlies-beat-114-101-thunder-in-opening-game-of-nba-2nd-round-playoff.html
The  Miami Heat  beat the Boston Celtics
99-90 in Game 1 of their National Basketball Association playoff
series behind 38 points from  Dwyane Wade , who was held to 51
points in four regular-season meetings against the reigning
Eastern Conference champions.  LeBron James  added 22 points and James Jones scored 25
points off the bench for Miami, which had lost 22 of its
previous 25 games against Boston over the past five seasons.  Wade hit 14 of 21 shots at AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami
yesterday after making a combined 16 of 57 shot attempts against
the Celtics during the regular season, when he averaged 12.8
points as Miami lost three of four games.  “This is what these guys expected from me,” Wade said in
a televised interview. “I wasn’t giving it to them in the
regular season against them and I just wanted to come out and be
a leader.”  The Memphis Grizzlies kicked off their second-round NBA
series with a 114-101 win over the Oklahoma City Thunder.  The two-time defending champion Los Angeles Lakers host the
Dallas Mavericks tonight at the Staples Center in Game 1 of
their Western Conference series.  The  Chicago Bulls , the top seed in the Eastern Conference,
also open their best-of-seven second-round series against the
 Atlanta Hawks  at home tonight.  Heat Win  In Miami, the Heat opened a 15-point halftime lead and
remained in control throughout the second half, when Boston’s
 Paul Pierce  was ejected with seven minutes left for a second
technical foul.  It was the first loss of the postseason for the defending
Eastern Conference champion Celtics, who had swept the  New York
Knicks  in the opening round.  Miami, which improved to 4-0 at home this postseason, will
host Game 2 tomorrow.  The Heat used a 13-2 scoring run spanning the first and
second quarters to build a 29-16 advantage. Jones, who averaged
5.9 points in the regular season, hit two 3-pointers during the
surge and finished with five overall.  Miami pushed its lead to 18 points during the third quarter
and never let  Boston  get closer than seven points over the final
12 minutes.  Pierce, the Celtics’ leading scorer, was called for a
technical foul after he was fouled and exchanged words with
Jones with 7:58 left. Less than a minute later, he was thrown
out of the game after setting a pick on Wade and then saying
something to him in front of the official.  ‘Too Much’  “Paul had some words for me and the ref thought it was a
little too much,” Wade said.  Pierce finished with 19 points on 6 of 14 shooting, while
Ray Allen led the Celtics with 25 points.  Miami was eliminated by Boston in five games during the
opening round of last year’s playoffs and during the offseason
added James and fellow All-Star  Chris Bosh , who had seven points
and 12 rebounds yesterday.  James has never won a playoff series against the 17-time
NBA champion Celtics, having played on Cleveland Cavaliers teams
that were ousted by Boston in 2008 and 2010.  At the  Oklahoma City  Arena, the Grizzlies built a 16-point
second quarter lead in sending the Thunder to their first home
defeat of the playoffs.  Zach Randolph led the Grizzlies with 34 points and 10
rebounds, two days after recording 31 points and 11 rebounds as
Memphis closed out a first-round upset of the top-seeded  San
Antonio Spurs . The Grizzlies became the second eighth-seeded
team to defeat a No. 1 seed in a best-of-seven playoff series,
joining the  Golden State Warriors  in 2007.  “You can’t stop him,”  Kevin Durant , who led the Thunder
with 33 points and 11 rebounds, said of Randolph. “We’ve got to
make him shoot tough shots but even when he missed he’d be there
to get his own rebound and the tip-in. He’s an animal.”  Marc Gasol added 20 points and 13 rebounds for  Memphis ,
while Russell Westbrook scored 29 points for Oklahoma City.  The teams return to the same venue for Game 2 tomorrow
before heading to Memphis for two games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  