-- 
Gulf Council’s al-Zayyani Will Return to Yemen to Broker Saleh’s Departure

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-05-01T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/gulf-council-s-al-zayyani-will-return-to-yemen-to-broker-saleh-s-departure.html
Gulf Cooperation Council Secretary-
General Abdel Latif al-Zayyani will return to Yemen to try to
salvage an agreement to end the political crisis there after
President Ali Abdullah Saleh refused to sign an accord to step
down within a month in exchange for immunity, the council said.  Delegates from Yemen’s ruling and opposition parties had
been scheduled to attend a signing ceremony in the Saudi capital
 Riyadh  today. The ceremony was canceled, and Gulf officials
instead met in the Saudi capital Riyadh to discuss the crisis.  The GCC “hopes that all obstacles preventing the
conclusion of a final agreement are removed,” the group said in
a statement last night after a foreign ministers meeting in
Riyadh. Yemen’s opposition Joint Meeting Parties blamed Saleh
for the collapse of the initiative, saying in a statement the
his refusal is an attempt to gain time and remain in power.  “The GCC has lost a diplomatic battle,” said Jamal Khashoggi, a Riyadh-based political analyst. “They have
retreated. They will mobilize their efforts and then launch
another diplomatic attack.”  The GCC, which includes the  United Arab Emirates ,  Bahrain ,
 Saudi Arabia , Oman, Qatar and  Kuwait , won’t give up on efforts
to reach an accord because “they are worried that if the unrest
persists it will lead to the breakup of Yemen and that’s a
nightmare for them,” said Khashoggi, who has interviewed  Osama bin Laden  and is the former editor-in-chief of Al-Watan
newspaper.  Not as President  Protests in Yemen have persisted even after Saleh and the
main opposition movement agreed to the plan brokered by Gulf
states for him to cede power in a month’s time and be granted
immunity from prosecution. He would be the third Middle Eastern
leader forced from office by protest movements this year, after
 Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  and  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  Saleh refused to sign the accord on April 30 in his
capacity as president, saying he would only ratify it as
chairman of the ruling General People’s Congress, according to
Yemeni opposition leaders. That is unacceptable to the
opposition because it would entail changing the wording of the
accord, Mohammed Basendwah, head of the Preparatory Committee
for National Dialogue, said in a telephone interview from Sana’a
yesterday.  Ahmed al-Soufi, a senior member of Yemen’s ruling party,
said Saleh is “not party” to the conflict, when asked by Al-
Jazeera television on April 30 whether the president will sign.  No Changes  In an interview with Russia Today Channel, Saleh repeated
his acceptance of the Gulf initiative, saying it “must be
carried out in whole and that the GCC member countries must work
on creating a mechanism to implement it without changes to any
item or clause,” according to a transcript carried by the
official Saba news agency April 30.  Saleh said he had accepted the 30-day time frame outlined
in the initiative, adding that he has no plans to return to a
position of authority, according to Saba’s English-language
website.  “Authority for me is a finished topic,” said Saleh,
according to Saba. “I will not run again for power, bequeath it
or do anything regarding it.”  The Joint Meeting Parties, which represents six opposition
groups, is concerned that by not signing as head of state Saleh
may not abide by the terms of the accord.  U.S. Support  “If he signs as chairman of the party and the party says
it rejects his decision, he will remain president,” Mohammed
al-Mutawakkil, a member of the JMP’s higher council, said in a
telephone interview from Sana’a yesterday.  In March, Saleh, 69, agreed to an opposition proposal to
hand over power by the end of the year, then backtracked by
saying he’d stand down only after a newly elected government was
formed and power was transferred to safer hands.  GCC officials are seeking to avert an escalation of the
violence in Yemen or a deadly military divide like the one in
 Libya . Rising social unrest also threatens to strengthen al-
Qaeda as it seeks to use Yemen, the poorest Arab nation, as a
base from which to destabilize neighboring Saudi Arabia, the
world’s largest exporter of crude oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  