-- 
Living on $1.25 a Day Won’t Win an S&P Upgrade: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-05-01T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/life-on-1-25-a-day-won-t-win-an-s-p-upgrade-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
If President  Benigno Aquino  wonders
why the Philippines isn’t shaking its junk-bond status, a visit
to the local supermarket might set him straight.  There, he will find that food prices are surging and
pushing growing numbers of his people into extreme poverty --
the less-than-$1.25-a-day kind. The Manila-based  Asian
Development Bank  says as many as 64 million more Asians may
suffer this fate in 2011, negating almost every other economic
metric of progress.  This is worth considering for a Philippine leader who’s
gotten lots right since taking office in June: 7 percent growth,
political stability, healthy banks and a narrower  budget
deficit . His finance team is hitting the road to argue that the
archipelago is no longer the sick man of  Asia  and shouldn’t be
two or three levels below investment grade.  The Philippines probably deserves a higher rating. Yet the
risks of food inflation shed light on why  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service rate the nation on par with  Egypt .  One in four of Aquino’s 102 million people already live on
less than $1.25 a day. In developing Asia, families spent more
that 60 percent of their income on food before the latest jump
in costs. Soaring food prices in many Asian economies have risen
an average of 10 percent so far in 2011. That means a sizeable
chunk of the Philippine population is growing poorer by the day
regardless of economic growth rates.  Improving Fundamentals  When Aquino talks of improving fundamentals, he’s referring
to healthy gross domestic product gains, increasing public
revenue and his policies of going after tax evaders, smugglers
and corrupt officials.  Observers, credit analysts included, tend to worry about
the cracks in the foundations of a system trying to shake off
the corruption of past leaders. Vested interests are very
effective at maintaining their edge in the  Philippines .  Aquino has said the right things about cleaning up and
generally chosen good policy makers. Reappointing Amando Tetangco, the respected central bank governor, was a smart move.
Aquino hasn’t dazzled markets, though. He needs a couple of
bold, headline-grabbing corruption convictions.  An obvious place to start is going after the billions of
dollars watchdog groups say former dictator  Ferdinand Marcos 
looted during his 21 years in power. Far from being held to
account, Marcos’s family is staging a political comeback,
winning seats in Congress. There’s also growing speculation
about corruption charges being made against his predecessor
 Gloria Arroyo  and her supporters.  Behind Bangladesh  The Philippines ranks 134th out of 178 countries in
Transparency International’s 2010  corruption perceptions index ,
tied with Bangladesh and  Zimbabwe . That’s a sobering reminder of
the heavy lifting Aquino needs to do to make his economy more
efficient and equitable.  The good news is that Aquino is off to a decent start.
Arroyo did little to make the Philippines more competitive in a
region being reshaped by  China . Instead, she relied on strong
GDP to paper over weaknesses and failed to invest more in
education, health care and family planning.  Overpopulation plagues the Philippines, and it’s an issue
politicians can’t touch thanks to the powerful Catholic Church.
Arroyo had legitimacy issues, having taken over when  Joseph Estrada , a former movie actor, was ousted amid corruption
allegations in 2001. Leadership challenges from Estrada and his
supporters had Arroyo turning to the church for support. That
meant no discussion of  birth control  was possible.  ‘Responsible Parenthood’  Aquino now is risking the Vatican’s wrath with a
“responsible parenthood” bill, and good for him. Development
economist William Easterly has a point when he says the Holy
Grail of prosperity is seven inches of latex: a condom.  It’s entirely possible Aquino will cave in, yet his economy
would be better off if he stood firm on the issue. The same goes
for stopping bureaucrats from shaking down entrepreneurs who
want to create fresh jobs and wealth.  So maybe it’s time to give credit where it’s due: the
Philippines has made enough progress to warrant debt upgrades.
It’s now rated one grade above  Greece . On its face, the
Philippines seems to deserve being in a better financial
neighborhood than that.  Yet poverty and corruption have credit-raters wondering if
the nation is ready for prime time. For me, a recent trip to the
island of Cagraray, an hour’s flight south of  Manila  in Albay
province, helped put things in perspective.  Bumpy Roads  Bumpy runways, potholed roads and unreliable power there
were evidence of how shady deals between government and business
squander money needed to upgrade the nation’s dismal
infrastructure. The one-hour drive to the resort where I was
speaking included a ride on a rickety ferry that had even the
locals eyeing the life preservers. Way too many kids who should
be in school were standing along the roads selling chewing gum,
water or cigarettes.  Food inflation is likely to lead to even more kids on the
streets to supplement family income. What good is rapid growth
if it’s not getting to the neediest segments of the population?
The Philippines has yet to address this question in a meaningful
way. Until it does, its  credit rating  will suffer.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Cagraray, Philippines at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  