-- 
Israel Delays Funds for Palestinians Over Hamas Concern

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-01T18:47:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/israel-delays-funds-for-palestinians-over-hamas-correct-.html
Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz will delay transferring tax funds to the  Palestinian
Authority  until receiving proof that the money won’t go to the
Islamic Hamas movement that rules the Gaza Strip.  Meetings scheduled this week between the Israeli  Finance
Ministry  and Palestinian Authority officials won’t take place in
the meantime, Steinitz said. The transfer of tax and customs
revenue collected by Israel on behalf of the Palestinian
Authority will be delayed, he said.  “The burden of proof is upon them to clarify if there is a
common treasury for both Hamas and Fatah,” Steinitz said today
on  Army Radio . “Is it certain that none of the money will be
transferred to a terror organization, for the purchase of
missiles and the financing of rockets?”  The rival Palestinian Hamas and Fatah groups said April 27
they had reached a preliminary agreement to end their almost
four-year divide, form a unity government and hold elections.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said today that
the understanding between the groups “should concern not only
 Israel ’s citizens but also all those around the world who aspire
to see peace between us and our Palestinian neighbors.”  Israel maintains relations with the Fatah-led Palestinian
Authority, which rules parts of the  West Bank . Hamas, which
controls the Gaza Strip and is a considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., the European Union and Israel, refuses
to recognize the Jewish state.  Threat to Existence  Netanyahu said later at a ceremony to mark the nation’s
annual Holocaust memorial day that Israel is ready to fight
against Hamas, as well as against  Iran  and the Lebanese
Hezbollah organization, because they want to destroy the Jewish
state.  “The threat to our existence is not theoretical,”
Netanyahu said in a speech broadcast on state television.  Israel and the U.S. consider both Hamas and Hezbollah to be
terrorist organizations.  Israeli shares tumbled the most in seven weeks. The TA-25
index of the country’s 25 biggest companies, lost 1.4 percent,
the most since March 13, to close at 1296.03, bringing the two-
day drop to 2.8 percent.  Chief Palestinian Authority negotiator Saeb Erakat called
Steinitz’s decision to withhold tax funds from the Palestinian
Authority “blackmail.”  ‘Our Money’  “This is our money,” Erakat said in a telephone
interview. “This is blackmail and absolutely unacceptable.”  Israel collects  tax revenue  on the behalf of the
Palestinians under an agreement signed as part of the 1993 Oslo
Accord. Israel controls all of the international crossings in
the West Bank and  Gaza Strip  and has temporarily withheld
transfer of the funds previously when Hamas won parliamentary
elections in 2006.  Israel Army Radio  said Steinitz’s decision will delay
payment of some 300 million shekels ($88.6 million) in tax
revenue, a sum the minister’s office couldn’t immediately
confirm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  