-- 
Kenyan Government Raises Minimum Wage by 12.5% as Food, Fuel Prices Surge

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-05-01T13:51:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/kenyan-government-raises-minimum-wage-by-12-5-as-food-fuel-prices-surge.html
Kenya ’s government raised the minimum
wage by 12.5 percent, adding to tax cuts announced last week
aimed at reducing the impact on the poor of surging food and
fuel costs in East Africa’s biggest economy.  “Recently the government removed duties on essential foods
and fuel,” Labor Minister John Munyes said in a speech today in
Nairobi, the capital, at a ceremony to mark Labor Day. Today “we
have increased the minimum wage by 12.5 percent.”  The Central Organization of Trade Unions, or COTU, Kenya’s
main labor-union federation that has demanded a 60 percent
increase, warned before the increase was announced that it may
call a nationwide strike on May 3 if the  minimum wage  isn’t
raised by a sufficient margin. Kenya’s lowest-paid workers
currently earn 8,364 shillings ($100) to 10,606 shillings a
month, according to  Business Daily , a Nairobi-based newspaper.  “The government was in a tight spot and had to make a
trade-off between civil unrest and the cost to the economy,”
 Aly-Khan Satchu , an independent analyst based in Nairobi, said
in a phone interview. “COTU is likely not to be satisfied with
the increase.”  Kenyan inflation surged to 12.05 percent in April,
exceeding the central bank’s 5 percent target for the fourth
straight month, as food prices jumped 19 percent from a year
earlier. Rising global commodity prices are passing through to
the Kenyan market, where an “emerging drought” has hit
domestic crop production and affected the local  food supply ,
Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  said on April 27.  Taxes, Duties  Last month, the government reduced excise taxes on diesel
by 20 percent and eliminated a tax on kerosene, used as a
cooking fuel, as it sought to cushion the impact of rising
prices. The state also removed duties on wheat and corn imported
by private companies.  The removal of taxes on diesel and kerosene is not enough,
Francis Atwoli, the secretary-general of COTU, said in a speech
today. There is “an urgent need for the government to develop a
wages and income policy called on the government” to help
reduce a widening gap between the wealthy and the poor, he said.  In neighboring  Uganda , opposition leaders have organized
protests against surging prices of food and fuel. Inflation in
the East African country jumped to 14.1 percent in April from
11.1 percent in March.  Atwoli’s mobile phone was busy when Bloomberg called him
seeking comment on the increase in the minimum wage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  