-- 
U.S., NATO Aren’t Confirming Death of Qaddafi’s Youngest Son

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-05-01T16:31:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/nato-u-s-aren-t-confirming-death-of-qaddafi-s-youngest-son-saif-al-arab.html
The U.S. and  North Atlantic Treaty
Organization  declined to confirm that  Muammar Qaddafi ’s youngest
son, Saif al-Arab, and three grandchildren were killed in an
allied air strike on a house in Tripoli, an assertion made by a
Libyan official earlier today.  “We do not” have confirmation of his death “and I’m not
sure exactly what the situation was,” Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona , ranking Republican on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, said today on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. The
U.S. State Department referred inquiries to NATO.  “No confirmation from NATO,” Chris Riley, a NATO
spokesman in Brussels, said in an e-mail.  More than two months of clashes in Libya have killed
thousands and helped push  oil prices  up more than 30 percent.
Much of the fighting is now centered on the rebel-held western
port city of Misrata, where opposition forces last week pushed
Qaddafi loyalists out of the city center. Qaddafi’s troops are
shelling civilian areas in the city and attempted to mine the
harbor, according to NATO.  Moussa Ibrahim, a spokesman for the Libyan Foreign
Ministry, said that Qaddafi and his wife were in the Tripoli
house during the strike and survived the attack that killed the
leader’s son and three grandchildren. Ibrahim said the attack
was a “direct operation to assassinate” Qaddafi.  “We do not target individuals,” Lieutenant General
Charles Bouchard, who commands the alliance’s operation, said in
a  statement  on NATO’s website. An e-mailed statement sent by
NATO today said the alliance “continued its precision strikes
against Qaddafi regime military installations in Tripoli
overnight, including striking a known command and control
building.”  Ferrari Seized  Saif Al-Arab, who was born in 1982, is Qaddafi’s  least-well
known  son. German police once  seized a Ferrari  owned by Saif Al-
Arab, a student at the time, for violating noise restrictions,
according to The Telegraph newspaper. He wasn’t reported to have
any public roles, unlike Saif al-Islam, 38, who has become a
public face of the regime.  Events in North Africa and the Middle East are contributing
to the recent jump in oil prices. In the U.S., regular gasoline
was $3.94 a gallon on April 30, the highest since July 2008,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.  “We’ve seen a supply disruption as a result of  Libya ,
which has helped feed a speculative bubble,” Representative
 Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat, said today on CNN’s
“State of the Union” program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  