-- 
New Households Form at Fastest Rate Since ’07 in Resurgent U.S.

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-01T23:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/new-households-form-at-fastest-rate-since-07-in-resurgent-u-s-.html
Shelby Webb, 22, rented her first
apartment three weeks ago in Chattanooga, Tennessee, after
landing a job translating ads for a Spanish-language newspaper.
Now, she’s paying monthly bills for electricity, cable
television and natural gas for the first time and has bought new
pillows from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   Millions of young adults like Webb are starting to leave
their parents’ homes, creating households at the fastest rate
since 2007. They’re helping to provide a so-called shadow supply
that may boost U.S. housing starts more than 50 percent by next
year and spur consumption at a rate almost double that of the
past two years.  “I love my parents but I didn’t want to live with them
anymore,” said Webb, a Spanish major at the University of
Tennessee, who had been forced to share their home in Milan,
Tennessee, after her job search stalled last year. “It was
tough. I know students across the board who were in the same
boat.”  Between 750,000 and 1 million new households will be
created in 2011, predict UBS Securities LLC’s Maury Harris and
IHS Global Insight’s  Patrick Newport . That compares with just
357,000 added in the year ended March 2010, the lowest on
record, according to the  Census Bureau . As employment picks up,
new households are likely to rise above the past decade’s
average of 1.3 million a year, according to Newport.  ‘Growing Backlog’  “The moving-back-in-with-Mom-and-Dad phenomenon is
creating a growing backlog of pent-up households,” said  Charles Lieberman , former head of monetary analysis at the  Federal
Reserve  Bank of  New York  and now chief investment officer with
Advisors Capital Management LLC in Hasbrouck Heights,  New
Jersey . “Improved economic conditions” will “enable these
households to split up and resume living in their own
residences.”  That will benefit a large group of companies, including
 Masco Corp. (MAS) , the biggest maker of faucets and cabinets in the
world; Trex Company Inc., which makes decking and railing; and
 USG Corp. (USG) , a building-products company, said Lieberman, whose
firm owns all three stocks.  New households will help boost housing starts to about
648,000 this year and close to 900,000 in 2012 from 586,800 last
year, estimates Brad Hunter, chief economist and national
director of consulting in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, for
research company Metrostudy. The increase reflects a shadow
demand for new homes among family members who have doubled up
because of economic necessity, Hunter said.  ‘Depressed Rate’  U.S. household formation in the three years ended March
2010 was about 2.3 million short of the long-term average,
according to Census data. The Federal Reserve’s staff cited the
“depressed rate” last November as a drag on the housing market
as the central bank began $600 billion in Treasury purchases to
try to accelerate growth and bring down unemployment. The Fed
reaffirmed on April 27 its plan to complete the program by June.  Increasing demand for homes should help offset the so-
called shadow inventory of vacant properties, Hunter said. About
1.8 million residences were delinquent or in foreclosure as of
January, according to March estimates by CoreLogic Inc., a Santa
Ana,  California , real-estate information company.  “Household-formation rates are already tipping back
upward” as job gains allow some people “to spread out now,”
Hunter said. “The demographic component of housing demand is
strong; it’s just the economic and psychological components that
are holding things back.”  While the jobless rate has fallen to 8.8 percent in March
from a post-recession high of 10.1 percent in October 2009, it’s
still well above the 4.6 percent average in 2007 before the
slump began.  Immigrants, Divorcees  Households form when young people move away from their
parents or siblings, marriages break up into separate living
quarters and immigrants find new homes. Masco, in Taylor,
Michigan, and New York-based  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  are among
companies that have said they would be helped directly by a
pickup in formations.  Cable companies will benefit more than satellite TV because
they sell bundled services that include voice and data, said
David Joyce, an analyst in New York at Miller Tabak & Co. LLC.
He has a “buy” rating on Time Warner Cable and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) 
in Philadelphia.  The number of electrical-utility customers is likely to
grow “a little under 1 percent this year,” with each household
supporting a new power meter, said Chris Ellinghaus, an analyst
in New York with Wellington Shields & Co., who has a “strong
buy” rating on  PNM Resources Inc. (PNM)  in Albuquerque,  New Mexico ,
and  Teco Energy Inc. (TE)  in Tampa, Florida, and a “buy” on  NV
Energy Inc. (NVE)  in Las Vegas.  Rising  Consumer Spending   Overall consumer spending may rise by 3.2 percent this year
and 3.4 percent next year, estimates  Jim O’Sullivan , chief
economist at MF Global Inc. in New York. That compares with the
median forecast of 2.8 percent for both years in an April 1-7
Bloomberg News survey of 59 economists, and an average of 1.8
percent in the last eight quarters, based on government data.  “Once job growth improves a bit, formations will pick up
strongly,” said  Mark Zandi , chief economist in West Chester,
Pennsylvania, at Moody’s Analytics Inc. He says 1.25 million is
a normal annual rate.  New-home renters and first-time buyers say employment and
their financial prospects are key to moving out on their own.
Webb got a job in January as a sales representative for the
Chattanooga Times Free Press, including translating ads into
Spanish for the Noticias Libres paper. Living with her parents
as an adult was “definitely weird,” she said.  Yard Sales  She is watching every cent to pay her $669 monthly rent,
plus utilities. In addition to shopping at Wal-Mart, she has
used classified ads to buy a used washer and dryer for $200 and
bought furniture at a yard sale.  “I can’t afford to do too much decorating right now,” she
said.  Anna Stokkebye, 24, bought a $155,000 two-bedroom
condominium in Charlotte,  North Carolina , last month after being
 hired  full-time in January by marketing company Luquire George
Andrews, where she designs websites. She had been living with
her parents after graduation from the University of North
Carolina at Asheville.  “I’d be lying if I said I wasn’t a little nervous” about
the new financial responsibility, Stokkebye said. “I wanted to
be secure that I had a steady income” before buying. “I feel
very fortunate and lucky.”  Her new home is a 20-minute drive from her parents, who she
said she enjoyed living with on a temporary basis. “They are
thrilled I am this close.”  Overnight Shift  Some adults who want to move aren’t able to yet, which
contributes to the shadow demand. Jesse Hipp, 24, who graduated
from the University of Arkansas in 2009, still lives with his
parents in Fayetteville, Arkansas, while he works an overnight-
shift with varying hours at discount retailer  Target Corp. (TGT)  He
would like to find a job that makes use of his major in
international relations and his ability to speak Chinese.  “On the personal ego thing, you don’t want to be 24 and
living in your parents’ house,” said Hipp, adding he doesn’t
want to be “a burden” because they “are struggling to get by
as it is, and they are having to support another adult.”  About 20 million adult children live with their parents,
and most are eager to move, said demographic-trends analyst
Peter Francese in Exeter, New Hampshire, of advertising agency
Ogilvy & Mather.  ‘Great Big L’  “In America, the extended family is a very unstable
household,” he said. “Most guys who live at home beyond some
young age walk around with a great big L on their forehead. It
is just not acceptable. As soon as these young adults get a job
and keep it for some reasonable period, they are gone. As more
young people feel they will be able to keep a job, bingo, they
are gone.”  Some households may be created by people who have delayed
divorces for economic reasons, Francese said.  “There is a pent-up demand for divorces,” which are
usually “a matter of convenience or discretion,” said Joseph
Cordell, principal partner of St. Louis-based law firm Cordell &
Cordell, which specializes in representing men in domestic
litigation. His firm’s customer count rose by about 20 percent
in the first quarter, and that is likely to continue in the next
few quarters, he said.  Divorce and Recession  The number of divorces  dropped  to 6.8 per 1,000 people in
2009 from 7.4 in 2006 prior to the recession, according to the
National Center for Health Statistics in Hyattsville, Maryland.
In a 2011 survey by the National Marriage Project at the
University of Virginia, 38 percent of people considering a
divorce or separation said the  recession  caused them to put
aside their plans.  Between now and 2020, as many as 13.8 million new
households likely will be formed, with the rate of immigration a
“key wild card,” according to a  September report  by Harvard
University’s Joint Center for Housing Studies. Masco Chief
Executive Officer Timothy Wadhams is more optimistic, saying at
an investor conference in March that the total may be 15 million
by 2020.  “At some point, housing starts will likely take off in a
big way,” Newport said. “I just do not think that Americans
will settle for living in more crowded homes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  