-- 
Nomura’s Profit Outlook Dims as Quake Weighs on Japan, Adds to Global Woes

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-05-02T00:32:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/nomura-s-profit-outlook-dims-as-quake-weighs-on-japan-adds-to-global-woes.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , the Japanese
investment bank that has lost money for four straight quarters
overseas, may face added pressure to boost profit as the
country’s worst postwar disaster weighs on operations at home.  Net income fell 35 percent to 11.9 billion yen ($146
million) in the three months ended March 31 as payroll costs
climbed and income from investment banking and trading declined,
 Japan ’s biggest brokerage said on April 28. The company posted a
pretax loss of 9.7 billion yen from its operations abroad.  Like rival  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , Nomura gets most of
its revenue from Japan, where companies cut production at a
record pace following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami. An
economic slump will curb demand for underwriting and takeover
advisory services, clouding Nomura’s prospects at home as it
struggles to make a profit overseas, said analyst Shiro Yoshioka.  “It’s difficult to foresee Nomura’s business outlook after
this huge quake,” said Japaninvest Group Plc’s Yoshioka in
 Tokyo . “The competition won’t allow Nomura to be a top global
firm easily. It’s going to be a winding road.”  Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe, who oversaw
Nomura’s purchase of bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
European and Asian businesses in 2008, told investors last week
that the expansion picture he initially projected hasn’t
materialized.  No Excuses  “Nomura’s plane took off with a soaring growth scenario,”
Watanabe, 58, said at the meeting of about 100 investors and
analysts at the company’s headquarters in Tokyo on April 28.
“We weren’t able to grow in the steady upward trend that we had
envisioned. I’m not going to make any excuses.”  The record quake and tsunami that sparked a nuclear crisis
has discouraged local companies from raising cash in  equity
capital markets . Share sales in Japan fell by more than half to
1 trillion yen this year from 2.4 trillion yen in the same
period of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Nomura topped the list both times, it hasn’t
underwritten any domestic share sales since March 11, Bloomberg
data show. Nor has Daiwa, which was scheduled to manage initial
public offerings by drugmaker RaQualia Pharma Inc. and glass
substrate maker AvanStrate Inc. Both companies canceled the
plans and postponed listings because of the disaster.  “Financing needs of Japanese firms will be weakened, and
demand for investment in facilities will shrink,” said Yoshioka.
“If people refrain from spending, manufacturers will also
refrain from making goods, which is a concern.”  Equity Underwriting  Globally, Nomura has handled five share sales since the
quake worth a total of $414 million, giving it a world ranking
of 28th, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the same
period last year, the company was fifth after underwriting eight
transactions worth $5.8 billion.  Keiko Sugai, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Nomura, declined
to comment on the profit outlook. She said Chief Financial
Officer Junko Nakagawa told reporters on April 28 that while
some investment banking deals were postponed by the quake, they
will eventually return.  The  Bank of Japan  last week more than halved its economic
growth forecast for the year ending March 2012 to 0.6 percent.
Factory output slid a record 15.3 percent in March from February,
and household spending dropped 8.5 percent from a year earlier.  The earthquake didn’t dent Nomura’s overall sales last
quarter. Revenue rose 15 percent from a year earlier to 365
billion yen, led by gains from brokerage commissions.  Difficult Conditions  “We managed to boost our revenue even under such difficult
market conditions,” Nakagawa said last week. “We expect
overseas business, especially wholesale investment banking and
market operations, to grow steadily.”  Nomura’s shares rose 0.5 percent to 414 yen at 9:25 a.m. on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 1
percent. Nomura has declined 20 percent this year. Daiwa
advanced 0.9 percent today, paring losses in 2011 to 16 percent.  Since the earthquake, Nomura’s retail lending in Japan
surged 50 percent as clients tapped their investment portfolios
to access cash in the wake of the disaster, Naoshi Sakai, an
executive director of the firm’s banking and trust agency
services unit, said in an interview last month.  Nomura aims to expand loans backed by clients’ investments
sevenfold to 200 billion yen in the next five years, two
executives said on condition of anonymity last month.  Daiwa Posts Loss  The brokerage’s January-to-March results were better than
those of Daiwa, which posted a 33.1 billion yen loss, its
biggest in nine quarters, as trading income declined. Daiwa CEO
Takashi Hibino said in an interview last month that the
earthquake may discourage local companies from raising cash.  Nomura got about 59 percent of its revenue from domestic
operations last quarter. The loss in  Asia  outside of Japan was
3.7 billion yen and in Europe 10.1 billion yen, while in the U.S.
the company posted profit before taxes of 4.1 billion yen, the
third consecutive quarterly gain.  “A key challenge will be making overseas operations
profitable,” said  Masao Muraki , a Tokyo-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG. “Each region has its own hurdles. In Asia, it
will need to win a series of large-scale equity finance deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  