-- 
Howard Buffett Says Rose May Join Jain in Father’s Circle

-- B y   B e t t y   L i u   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-05-01T19:13:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/howard-buffett-says-rose-may-join-jain-in-father-s-circle-1-.html
Howard Buffett , who may help select
his father’s successor at  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said  Warren Buffett ’s circle of most trusted managers, like Tony Nicely and
 Ajit Jain , will expand to include railroad chief Matthew Rose.  Warren Buffett, Berkshire’s 80-year-old chief executive
officer, is reviewing the ranks of the more than 70 operating
subsidiaries he oversees in search of a successor. Howard
Buffett, the billionaire’s son and a director at Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire, said the heads of many of the
company’s units have won his father’s trust.  “A lot of these CEOs are close to my Dad,” Howard Buffett
said today in a Bloomberg Television interview in his Omaha
home. “I mean Tony, Ajit. And I’m sure Matt will be closer as
time goes on.”  The elder Buffett is seeking an executive to run the $200
billion company he built over more than four decades. Buffett
told shareholders at the company’s annual meeting yesterday that
the leading candidate was “straight as an arrow.” Investors
are seeking reassurances after Berkshire said last month that
departed manager  David Sokol , 54, violated Berkshire’s insider-
trading rules.  Rose, 52, joined Berkshire last year after selling
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe , which he runs as CEO, to Buffett
for $26.5 billion. Buffett has overseen Nicely, 67, CEO of car
insurer Geico, since the 1996 when Berkshire acquired full
control of the unit. Buffett hired Jain more than 20 years ago
to run a reinsurance business for Berkshire.  “Candidates change,” Howard Buffett said. “People often
want him to come out and say here’s the person, but that’d be
foolish because that person can change.”  Buffett’s Best Deal  Warren Buffett uses the annual meetings and his yearly
letters to shareholders to single out managers for praise. In
the most recent letter, published in February, Buffett placed
Rose in the company of Sokol and energy executive Gregory Abel,
saying he was “proud and grateful” for the performance of the
three executives. Yesterday, Buffett said that hiring Jain, 59,
was his “best deal.”  Berkshire has four candidates to become the next CEO, the
company said in a February regulatory filing, without
identifying them. The successor will take responsibility for a
collection of businesses including insurance, energy, jewelry
and freight. Warren Buffett, who is also chairman, has said he
would like his son Howard to follow him in that role.  Berkshire took $2.25 billion in dividends from  Fort
Worth , Texas-based Burlington Northern through February, almost
triple the railroad’s payout rate before the takeover. The sum
includes a $1 billion payment in February.  “It was excess cash,” Rose said in an interview yesterday.
Asked whether dividends will continue at the same pace as in the
first 13 months of Berkshire’s ownership, Rose said “We hope so,
we’ll see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Betty Liu in Omaha at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  