-- 
Peruvian Inflation Accelerates Faster Than Expected on Soaring Food Costs

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-05-02T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/peruvian-april-inflation-remains-at-almost-33-month-high-on-cost-of-food.html
Peru ’s monthly inflation rate held
close to its highest level in 33 months in April as food prices
surged, increasing pressure on the central bank to increase its
benchmark lending rate this month.  Consumer prices rose 0.68 percent in April from the prior
month, the second quickest pace since June 2008, Peru’s national
statistics agency reported yesterday. Inflation was expected to
slow to 0.48 percent from March after accelerating 0.70 percent
in February, according the median estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Higher food costs coupled with Peru’s region-beating
economic growth will lead the central bank to increase borrowing
costs for the tenth time in 13 months at its May 12 meeting,
said  Roberto Flores , an economist at Inteligo SAB, a Lima-based
brokerage. April’s annual inflation rate accelerated to 3.34
percent, the fastest in almost two years and outside the central
bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range.  “Though there is a seasonal element to April’s inflation
rate, the central bank has reason to keep tightening,” Flores
said in a phone interview.  Food prices climbed 1.2 percent last month as fish and
seafood climbed on higher demand before the Easter holiday, and
on a seasonal reduction in the supply of some vegetables, the
agency said. Higher international prices pushed up the cost of
corn used to feed chickens, as well as wheat, soy oil and cotton
imports.  Benchmark Rate  The Andean country’s central bank raised its benchmark rate
for the fourth straight month in April, increasing by a quarter-
point to 4 percent, citing higher food and energy prices and
economic activity.  Peru will grow 7.5 percent this year, the fastest in  Latin
America , the  International Monetary Fund  said last month.  Food and drink products constitute 38 percent of the
government’s consumer price index, which is based on a survey of
establishments conducted by the agency in the Lima Metropolitan
area.  The monthly inflation rate in other Peruvian cities ranged
from 0.48 percent to 1.42 percent, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  