-- 
Predators Beat Canucks in OT, Bruins Top Flyers in NHL Playoffs

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-05-01T05:26:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/predators-beat-canucks-in-ot-bruins-top-flyers-in-nhl-playoffs.html
The  Nashville Predators  came from
behind to beat the Vancouver Canucks 2-1 in double overtime and
even their National Hockey League Western Conference playoff
series at one game apiece.  Matt Halischuk snapped a wrist shot over the catching glove
of Vancouver goalie Roberto Luongo 14:51 into the second
overtime period to seal the win for Nashville.  Predators goalie Pekka Rinne, a finalist along with Luongo
for the Vezina trophy as the NHL’s top goalie, stopped 32 shots
in the win.  Vancouver appeared poised to take a two-game lead in the
best-of-seven series until Nashville defenseman Ryan Suter
forced overtime when he slid the puck past Luongo with 1:07
remaining in the third period. It was the first goal Luongo had
allowed in 126:11. The Predators outshot Vancouver 36-15 through
three periods.  Alex Burrows gave the Canucks a 1-0 lead two minutes into
the second period with his 16th career short-handed goal.  Game three of the best-of-seven semifinal series is
scheduled for May 3 in Nashville.  Earlier yesterday, the  Boston  Bruins beat the Philadelphia
Flyers 7-3 in the opening game of their Eastern Conference
semifinal series.  David Krejci had two goals and two assists to lead Boston,
which got 31 saves from goalie Tim Thomas. Brad Marchand added
two goals and an assist, while Nathan Horton, Mark Recchi and
Gregory Campbell also scored for the Bruins.  Danny Briere  picked up his seventh goal of the playoffs for
the Flyers, who also got goals from James van Riemsdyk and  Mike Richards  at the Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia.  Game 2 is scheduled tomorrow in Philadelphia.  Later today, the Detroit Red Wings will face the Sharks in
 San Jose  as they look to even their Western Conference series at
one game apiece after dropping the series opener 2-1 in overtime.  Following that game, the  Washington Capitals  will host
 Tampa Bay  as they try to even their series with the Lightning
after being beat 4-2 in the opening game of the series.  To contact the reporter on this story: Michael Buteau in Atlanta
at   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  