-- 
RBA Rates Seen on Hold by Second-Best Bonds: Australia Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s
-- 
2011-05-02T07:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/rba-rates-seen-on-hold-by-second-best-bonds-australia-credit.html
The  bond market  is telling  Reserve
Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens he doesn’t need to
raise the developed world’s highest interest rates any time soon
to curb a lending surge and the fastest inflation since 2006.  The 10-year government bond yield rose one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 5.44 percent today, after dropping for
a third week in the longest stretch of declines since August.
Australian bonds returned 2.1 percent over the past six months,
better than 18 of 19 other developed markets, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Data last week showed consumer
prices rose 1.6 percent in the first quarter and bank loans to
households and businesses grew the most in two years.  Stevens, the only developed-nation central banker whose
economy avoided recession as credit markets froze in 2008, has
said the RBA will “look through” inflation after floods
devastated Queensland state, indicating he is likely to leave
the overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent tomorrow for a
fifth straight meeting. Bank bill futures for July show a 74
percent chance of no rate change until the third quarter at the
earliest. Australia’s benchmark contrasts with near-zero levels
in  Japan  and the U.S., helping drive the currency to a record.  “The soaring exchange rate is helping to contain
inflation,” said Paul Bloxham, chief economist at HSBC Holdings
Plc in Sydney and a former RBA official. “A key risk is that a
tight labor market leads to a wage-price spiral down the
track.”  Nearly Unanimous  The RBA will keep the overnight cash rate unchanged
tomorrow, according to 21 of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Stevens has refrained from raising borrowing costs since
November after flooding damaged crops and disrupted coal mines
in Queensland, which supplies more than 30 percent of the
nation’s fruit and vegetables.  The Australian dollar touched a record $1.1011 today after
an April 27 inflation report prompted speculation the RBA will
raise rates sooner than the  Federal Reserve . The so-called
Aussie soared about 18 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the
past year as Stevens lifted rates and a mining-investment boom
drove unemployment below 5 percent.  One economist,  Stephen Roberts  of Nomura Holdings Inc., is
predicting a quarter percentage point increase tomorrow.  ‘Move Earlier’  “It would be difficult for the RBA to contend now that
inflation is going to stay consistent with the target band over
the course of the next 12 months,” said the Sydney-based
Roberts. “The least line of regret would seem to be to move
earlier rather than later and that implies moving in May. They
may choose to herald an increase and maybe wait until June, but
I don’t see the benefit of that.”  Bank bill futures for December delivery dropped to the
lowest in almost two months on the  Sydney Futures Exchange 
today. The contracts are indicating an 88 percent chance the RBA
will boost borrowing costs by year-end after the CPI data showed
measures that strip out volatile prices such as food and energy
exceeded economists’ forecasts.  Consumer prices may rise an annual 3.06 percent in the next
five years, according to the gap between yields on  government
bonds  and inflation-indexed notes, which has widened 10 basis
points in the past week. The RBA aims to keep inflation in a
range of 2 percent to 3 percent on average.  Lending Jumps  A central bank report last week showed loans provided by
Australian banks and finance companies increased 0.6 percent in
March from the previous month, matching the biggest monthly
advance since January 2009.  Lending to companies surged 1 percent in March, the biggest
rise since October 2008 and the third straight monthly gain, it
showed. Business lending had declined for six consecutive months
through December, falls noted by the RBA in its statements.  Economists will be watching for any change in language from
the RBA in its statement, with the bank expected to match its
longest stretch without an interest-rate change in more than 3
1/2 years. The central bank has held policy for five-straight
meetings on three occasions since 2007, raising rates in
November 2010 and October 2009, after ending such a pause in
October 2008 with a reduction in the benchmark.  “We think tougher language is likely,” said Kieran Davies, a Sydney-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, who doesn’t expect rates to climb until August.  Record Jobs  Australia  had its biggest annual increase in jobs on record
last year and employers added more workers in March than
economists forecast, pushing the jobless rate down to 4.9
percent. Short-term government bond yields are signaling that
the nation’s growth will overcome disruptions from damage in
Queensland and Japan’s strongest-ever earthquake, which
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said will reduce commodity exports by A$2
billion.  Yields on Australian two-year government debt, which tends
to be more influenced by expectations for monetary policy than
longer-term bonds, climbed three basis points to 4.98 percent
today, extending their first weekly advance since the five days
ended April 8. The securities’ premium over U.S. Treasuries of
similar maturity widened six basis points over the past week to
436, paring its decline from 456 on Dec. 31.  New Zealand government bonds provided a 3.1 percent return,
the best performance among Merrill Lynch indexes. All the other
sovereign debt gauges fell, as concerns about inflation and
increased borrowings spurred declines from Ireland to Germany,
Japan and the U.S.  Treasuries, Bunds  U.S. government bonds handed investors a loss of 1.5
percent, while German bunds dropped 3.7 percent, Japanese debt
fell 0.8 percent and Ireland’s securities plunged 12 percent,
the Merrill indexes show.  Standard & Poor’s  on April 18 placed a
“negative” outlook on the U.S.’s AAA ranking, citing a risk
the nation will fail to deal with rising budget deficits.  Stevens has said the central bank’s management of the
resources bonanza has been aided by households restraining
spending. Savings as a share of disposable income climbed to 9.7
percent from October through December, rising for a fourth-
straight quarter, from 8 percent in the year-earlier period,
according to Bureau of Statistics data.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company, may
expand its iron ore operations in  Western Australia ’s Pilbara
region to 480 million metric tons a year at a cost of A$48
billion ($52 billion), the Australian newspaper reported last
month, citing state and federal applications.  Import Costs  While the currency’s rise to the highest level since it was
freely floated in 1983 has eased the RBA’s task of controlling
inflation by reducing import costs, it has hurt some
manufacturers that sell goods abroad.  The Reserve Bank raised its forecast for 2011 growth to
4.25 percent in February, from a November prediction of 3.75
percent, saying flood rebuilding will accelerate in the second
half. It will update those estimates in its quarterly monetary
policy statement to be released on May 6.  Stevens boosted the benchmark lending rate by 175 basis
points from early October 2009 to November last year from a
half-century low of 3 percent during the global financial
crisis. The last increase surprised most economists who
predicted no change.  “I don’t think the RBA has to hold the market’s hand the
whole time,” Nomura’s Roberts said. “This is very similar to
the change they made back in November because that one took the
market by surprise as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  