-- 
Trump Says He’s Decided ‘In My Mind’ to Seek Presidency After ‘Apprentice’

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-05-02T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/trump-says-he-s-decided-in-my-mind-to-seek-presidency-after-apprentice-.html
New York real estate developer  Donald Trump  says he has decided “in my mind” to run for president,
yet won’t make an official announcement before the season finale
of his reality television show later this month.  “In my mind, I have already decided,” Trump, 64, said in
a telephone interview yesterday. “I am going to announce. But I
can’t do anything until the show ends.”  Trump said he will focus on “making our country rich and
respected,” by creating jobs, boosting the economy and stopping
China and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries from
taking advantage of the U.S.  “The OPEC nations will be acting much differently, and
fuel prices will go down and the economy will become strong
again,” Trump said. “They may like me or not like me, but
nobody will be ripping us off.”  Some recent polls have shown Trump at or near the top of a
large field of potential Republican candidates. In an April 26
Rasmussen Reports poll,  Trump led  with support from 19 percent
of 1,000 likely Republican primary voters nationwide. The poll’s
margin of error was plus or minus three percentage points.  A Gallup Poll conducted April 15-20 showed Trump  tied  with
former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  at 16 percent, atop a
list of 15 possible candidates. Gallup questioned 1,047
Republicans and Republican-leaning independents. The poll had an
error margin of plus or minus four percentage points.  Stealing Attention  Republican Senators Lindsey Graham and  John McCain ,
speaking on network talk shows earlier yesterday, said Trump has
been stealing attention from campaign issues and candidates with
his focus on President Barack Obama’s birth certificate and
school grades.  Trump, whose NBC reality television show, “Celebrity
Apprentice” ends its season on May 22, has questioned whether
Obama was born in the U.S. and whether he was eligible to be
president. He’s also questioned the president’s school grades,
suggesting Obama may have gotten special treatment to gain
admission to colleges, including  Harvard Law School , where he
graduated magna cum laude.  Obama on April 27 released a long form of his birth
certificate showing he was born in Honolulu. Obama said it was
time to stop being “distracted by sideshows and carnival
barkers” in remarks to reporters about the document.  Trump said in the interview he was “proud” of prompting
the president to issue the birth certificate, reiterating
comments he made in a press conference last week.  “There’s a lot of things Mister Trump can be proud of, but
some of this rhetoric and this focusing on the president’s
birth, I do not think is the way for us to win the White
House,” Graham, a  South Carolina  Republican, said on “Fox News
Sunday.”  ‘Serious Candidates’  McCain, an Arizona Republican, said on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” program that he didn’t think Trump would become the new
face of the Republican party.  “We have very serious candidates, and I think that if
Mister Trump wants to run, he’s welcome to run,” McCain said.
The senator said the U.S. needs a “national conversation”
about issues such as the debt limit and unemployment, and not a
debate on Obama’s college transcripts. “All of this is so
unnecessary.”  ‘Tough Sale’  Referring to reports that Trump used salty language in an
April 28 speech in  Las Vegas , Graham said that “most Americans
don’t want their president to go around saying the f-word.”
While Trump “has a lot to offer,” Graham said the developer
“will have a tough sale in South Carolina.”  Trump is scheduled to speak in June at a Republican
fundraising event in  Iowa , site of the first 2012 presidential
nominating caucuses.  President Obama ribbed Trump about the birth certificate
episode in remarks at the annual White House Correspondents’
Association dinner in Washington April 30.  “No one is prouder to put this birth certificate matter to
rest than ‘the Donald,’” Obama said.  Joking about what kind of change Trump might bring to the
White House, Obama showed a big-screen image of the “Trump
White House Resort and Casino,” with a pink neon sign, girls,
cocktails and Jacuzzis on the lawn.  Seth Meyers, a cast member on NBC’s “Saturday Night
Live,” gave the dinner’s keynote speech and addressed Trump’s
potential candidacy.  “Donald Trump often talks about running as a Republican,
which is surprising,” Meyers said. “I just assumed he was
running as a joke.”  ‘Lion’s Den’  Trump said yesterday he was “honored” by the amount of
time dedicated to him during the dinner. “I knew I was going
into the lion’s den,” he said in the interview. “I’m the last
person they want to run against.”  Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and Texas Representative  Ron Paul  have said they are exploring presidential bids.  Potential Republican candidates also include former Alaska
Governor Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential
nominee; former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia ; Governor
Mitch Daniels of  Indiana ; and former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman ,
who stepped down last month as U.S. ambassador to  China .  Florida Senator Marco Rubio, who won office last year with
support from Tea Party backers, said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet
the Press” that he won’t “under any circumstances” be part of
a Republican presidential ticket in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  