-- 
Saleh Refuses to Sign Pact for His Resignation, Opposition Says

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-05-01T07:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/saleh-may-not-sign-pact-for-his-resignation-amid-yemen-protests.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh
has refused to sign an agreement brokered by Gulf countries that
calls for him to step down, opposition leaders said.  Saleh won’t sign as president and will only ratify the
agreement as chairman of the ruling General People’s Congress,
Mohammed Basendwah, head of the Preparatory Committee for
National Dialogue, said in a telephone interview from Sana’a.
That is unacceptable to the opposition because it would entail
changing the wording of the accord, Basendwah said.  “No one has the right to amend the agreement,” said
Basendwah, who will be heading the opposition delegation to the
signing ceremony. “It should be accepted as it is.”  Protests in Yemen have persisted even after Saleh and the
main opposition movement agreed to a plan brokered by Gulf
states for him to cede power in a month’s time and be granted
immunity from prosecution. He would be the third Middle Eastern
leader forced from office by popular protest movements this
year, after  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  and  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  Gulf Cooperation Council Secretary-General Abdel Latif al-
Zayyani met with Saleh yesterday and informed the opposition
following his meeting that the president had not signed the
accord, Mohammed al-Qahtan, spokesman of the opposition Joint
Meeting Parties, told Al Arabiya television. Saleh had been
expected to sign yesterday in advance of a formal signing
ceremony in  Riyadh  later today.  ‘Not Party’  Ahmed al-Soufi, a senior member of Yemen’s ruling party,
said Saleh is “not party” to the conflict, when asked by Al-
Jazeera television yesterday whether the president will sign.  The Joint Meeting Parties, which represents six opposition
groups, is concerned that by not signing as head of state Saleh
may not abide by the terms of the accord.  “If he signs as chairman of the party and the party says
it rejects his decision, he will remain president,” Mohammed
al-Mutawakkil, a member of the JMP’s higher council said in a
telephone interview from Sana’a.  “We’re waiting to see what the GCC will do,” Basendwah
said.  In March, Saleh, 69, agreed to an opposition proposal to
hand over power by the end of the year, then backtracked by
saying he’d stand down only after a newly elected government was
formed and power was transferred to safer hands.  The agreement was brokered by ministers from the GCC, which
includes the  United Arab Emirates ,  Bahrain ,  Saudi Arabia ,
Oman, Qatar and  Kuwait . It would grant immunity for Saleh, his
family and long-time aides.  Avert an Escalation  GCC officials are seeking to avert an escalation of the
violence in Yemen or a deadly military divide like the one in
 Libya . Rising social unrest also threatens to strengthen al-
Qaeda as it seeks to use Yemen, the poorest Arab nation, as a
base from which to destabilize neighboring Saudi Arabia, the
world’s largest exporter of crude oil.  Two Yemeni soldiers were killed when armed men attacked a
police station in the southern city of Aden, the state-run Saba
news agency reported, citing an unidentified security official.
Two soldiers were also wounded when their security vehicles in
the city, the news service said today.  The U.S. has backed Saleh, a key ally in the fight against
al-Qaeda, with $300 million a year of military and economic aid.  A weak central government in Yemen risks mirroring the
situation in Somalia, across the  Gulf of Aden , where there
hasn’t been a functioning central administration since 1991.
Somalia has become a breeding ground for pirates who attack
shipping lanes.  Protests in Yemen calling for an end to Saleh’s rule are in
their third month. At least 100 people have died in Yemen as
security forces repeatedly fired on demonstrations that began on
Feb. 11, according to the Arabic Sisters Forum for Human Rights
in Sana’a.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  