-- 
Saudi Arabia Economy Stable Amid Regional Uprisings, Azzam Says

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-05-01T07:59:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/saudi-arabia-economy-stable-amid-regional-uprisings-azzam-says.html
Saudi Arabia ’s economy, the largest in
the Arab world, won’t face any major disturbances as political
upheaval in the region threatens to stunt the growth of a number
of Arab economies,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s regional chairman said.  The Saudi economy will grow at 7 percent or 7.5 percent
this year, Henry Azzam said at a conference in Dubai today. The
two most stable governments in the region are those of the
United Arab Emirates and Qatar, “helped by government largesse,”
he said.  While Tunisia and Egypt are the only two nations to have
toppled their leaders, Libya is embroiled in a civil conflict
and unrest in Syria, Bahrain and Yemen has left hundreds dead
and sent  oil prices  soaring 23 percent this year. The region’s
crude exporters have better economic prospects this year than
fuel importers as prices rise and governments attempting to
placate regional popular uprisings spend more of their oil
revenue, the  International Monetary Fund  said April 11.  Qatar, holder of the world’s third-largest natural gas
reserves, is forecast to grow by 20 percent this year and Saudi
Arabia, with the world’s biggest oil reserves, by 7.5 percent,
the IMF said.  The events taking place in the Middle East are on a par
with the fall of Berlin Wall and the growth sparked by that,
Azzam said. Egypt’s economy is likely to deteriorate further
before it improves, he said. The IMF cut its growth forecast for
 Egypt  to about 1 percent, from its pre-revolution forecast of 5
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 