-- 
Lightning Extend NHL Playoff Victory Streak on Road; Sharks Open With Win

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-02T04:31:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/sharks-beat-red-wings-2-1-to-lead-nhl-2nd-round-playoff-series-2-0.html
The  Tampa Bay  Lightning pushed their
postseason road winning streak to five games with a 3-2 overtime
victory against the  Washington  Capitals in Game 2 of their
National Hockey League playoff series.  Vincent Lecavalier took a pass from Teddy Purcell in front
of the Washington goal and lifted the puck over Capitals
goaltender Michal Neuvirth for the game-winner 6:19 into
overtime last night at the Verizon Center in Washington.  Tampa Bay, the fifth seed in the Eastern Conference, takes
a 2-0 series lead over the top-seeded Capitals as the best-of-
seven matchup moves to Florida for the next two games.  The  San Jose Sharks  also opened a 2-0 lead in their second-
round playoff series with a second straight 2-1 victory over the
 Detroit Red Wings  at home.  The Philadelphia Flyers host the Boston Bruins tonight in
Game 2 of their Eastern Conference series after a 7-3 loss two
days ago.  The Lightning pulled out another road victory after
Washington had forced overtime on Alex Ovechkin’s goal with 1:08
left in the third period.  “We regrouped and we came out hungry and composed,”
Lightning wing Martin St. Louis told reporters.  Lecavalier’s goal was his third game-winning tally this
postseason, the most of any NHL player.  The Lightning host the next two games, with Game 3 set for
May 3. The Capitals last season lost at home in the first two
games of their opening-round playoff series against the  New York
Rangers  before rallying to win in seven games.  At HP Pavilion in  San Jose ,  California , Ian White and
Niclas Wallin scored goals as the Sharks went up 2-0 and then
held off the Red Wings, whose lone goal came from Henrik Zetterberg with 6:02 to play.  The Sharks and Red Wings also met in the second round of
the NHL playoffs last year, with San Jose winning the first two
games at home before capturing the series in five games.  Detroit hosts the next two games on May 4 and May 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  