-- 
Sony Aims to Resume PlayStation Network, Qriocity Service by End of Month

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-05-02T08:29:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/sony-aims-to-resume-playstation-network-qriocity-service-by-end-of-month.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  apologized for the breach
of its PlayStation Network and Qriocity services, and said it
aims to resume the online gaming center by the end of the month
after upgrading security.  Partial resumption of the services will likely occur in a
week,  Kazuo Hirai , Sony’s executive deputy president in charge
of consumer products and network services, said in his first
comments since the facility was shut down April 20. Hirai and
two other officials bowed in apology at a press conference
yesterday, and said the company can’t rule out  credit card 
numbers and expiry dates having been stolen.  “We’re very sorry for causing troubles and worries to our
customers,” said Hirai, the frontrunner to become chief
executive officer. The company is cooperating with authorities
including the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  to chase the
intruder, he said.  “As long as there are no reports or Sony doesn’t see any
evidence that the credit card database was hacked, that’s
positive,”  Jay Defibaugh , an a4nalyst at MF Global FXA
Securities in Tokyo. “For his first real major test, Hirai held
up relatively well.”  The shares rose 2.5 percent to close at 2,316 yen in Tokyo
today, their first advance in six days. Last week, Sony slumped
to the lowest level since July 2009 on concern the fallout will
set back efforts to compete against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  in online movies and games.  Regulatory Backlash  Sony is facing a regulatory backlash over delays in warning
77 million users about possible data theft by a hacker. The
company alerted customers of the security breach on April 26,
six days after closing the PS Network and  Qriocity  video-and
music-streaming services.  The company is probing the extent of the data theft and
hasn’t found evidence that information on 10 million registered
credit cards has been leaked, it said in a statement yesterday.  Sony hasn’t received a damage report on misuse of credit
card or personal data since its  data center  in  San Diego  was
attacked between April 17 and April 19, Hirai said. Security
codes are believed to be safe, he said.  The company may pay the fees to reissue customer credit
cards and will consider compensation to users whose cards were
misused by the hackers, Hirai said. Such payments and damages to
revenue from PS Network and Qriocity services during the
suspension may impact Sony’s earnings, he said.  Moody’s Rating  The Japanese maker of Vaio computers and Bravia televisions
is due to report earnings for the year ended March on May 26.  Legal and technology costs are likely to increase because
of the incident, further hurting Sony’s credit profile, Moody’s
 Japan  K.K. said in a statement today. Sony has an A3 rating at
Moody’s with a ‘stable’ outlook. Moody’s will continue to
monitor developments regarding the data-security breach, it said
in the statement.  A lawsuit filed April 27 in federal court in  San Francisco 
alleges the delay left PlayStation users exposed to losses
related to any credit-card  data theft . Officials in  Connecticut ,
the U.K. and Ireland began inquiries. The Italian Data
Protection Authority said April 28 it will contact Sony to
gather more information and Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade
and Industry is also doing the same.  Sony issued  warnings  on April 26 saying users’ personal
information such as e-mail addresses, birthdates, login
information was stolen by a hacker between April 17 to April 19.
Purchase history and credit card information may have been
stolen, the company said at the time.  Google,  Walt Disney   The company will upgrade the  PlayStation 3  software before
the service resumption and will ask all users to change their
passwords, the statement said. Sony will also create a chief
information security officer, it said.  Sony’s system has had attacks by hackers in the past few
months, Hirai said. Involvement of so-called ‘Anonymous’ hacker
group in the late April incident hasn’t been proven, he said.  Sony was singled out in a statement by a group of hacker-
activists known as ‘ Anonymous ’ after the company sued George
Hotz for posting online information about how to install
alternative operating systems for the PS 3 game console. The
group issued a separate  statement  denying responsibility for the
PlayStation Network disruption, while saying some of its members
might be behind it.  Hackers previously also targeted Sony along with companies
including Google Inc., Walt Disney Co., and Johnson & Johnson,
according to confidential e-mail discussing the subsequent
investigation.  The network was introduced in November 2006 when the
company started selling PlayStation 3 game consoles, according
to Sosuke Kamei, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Sony’s game unit.
The online services will remain core to Sony’s strategies and
the company won’t delay introduction of networked products such
as tablet computers and portable gaming devices, Hirai said.  Hirai was promoted as President Sony Computer Entertainment
Inc. in December 2006, replacing Ken Kutaragi, developer of the
PlayStation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  