-- 
S. Korea to Start Bank to Buy Soured Builder Loans

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-05-01T06:14:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/south-korea-plans-bank-to-buy-soured-loans-of-housing-builders.html
South Korea  will establish a bank next
month to purchase soured loans owed by builders and developers,
the nation’s financial regulator said.  The bank will take over as much as 1 trillion won ($933
million) of non-performing debt arising from real estate
development projects, the Financial Services Commission said in
an e-mailed statement today. It will operate under the private
debt clearer United Asset Management Corp., with lenders in
 Asia ’s fourth-largest economy contributing funds.  The government announced policy measures today to aid
troubled builders and the  property market , including tax
incentives for real estate investment trusts that buy unsold
housing. Since late 2010, 29 of South Korea’s 100 largest
builders applied for financial support due to a prolonged slump
in construction and real estate, the statement said.  “The measures are a pre-emptive move to help ease problems
in the  construction industry  and the property market,” a joint
statement by the FSC, finance and land ministries said today.
“If the current industry slump and project-financing problems
are left intact, there may be an adverse impact on the financial
market and the overall economy.”  Through the debt restructuring program, the government will
support troubled builders deemed as viable after credit-risk
assessments by their lenders in June, according to the statement.  The government will also encourage financial institutions
to actively extend debt maturities and provide fresh loans to
builders deemed viable.  In the three months through March construction investment
declined 11.9 percent from a year earlier when the gross
domestic product expanded 4.2 percent, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  