-- 
South Korea’s Inflation Slows, May Fail to Deter Central Bank’s Rate Rise

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-05-02T00:31:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/south-korea-s-inflation-slows-from-fastest-pace-in-29-months-1-.html
     May 2 (Bloomberg) --South  Korea ’s inflation slowed in April
from the fastest pace in 29 months, a moderation that may fail
to deter the central bank from raising  interest rates  next week.  Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent from a year earlier, after
a 4.7 percent gain in March, Statistics Korea said today in
Gwacheon, south of Seoul. That compared with a median estimate
of 4.6 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists.
Prices were unchanged from March.  President  Lee Myung Bak  declared “war” on inflation in
January, urging policy makers to contain inflation at 3 percent
to protect families on low incomes. Central bank officials will
need to gauge the effect that a surging won may have on exports
and growth when reviewing rates on May 13 after leaving them
unchanged last month.  “The government’s price controls seem to be working now but
inflation is still above the target and thus the central bank
will raise rates next week,” said Park Tae Kuen, a fixed-income
analyst at Hanwha Securities Co. in  Seoul . “The authorities may
tolerate the won’s gains up to 1,050 per dollar as they help
limit inflation and exporters seem to endure a strong won better
than expected.”  The won rose 0.29 percent to 1,068.40 per dollar at 9:06
a.m. Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while the
Kospi stock index rose 0.74 percent.  Rising Won  South Korea ’s currency rose last week to the strongest
since 2008. Exports are weathering gains by the won, with
shipments rising a more-than-estimated 27 percent last month
from a year earlier.  The Bank of Korea targets inflation of 2 percent to 4
percent through 2012 and is forecasting that the level will be
3.9 percent this year. Businesses pushing up prices this year
have included cigarette maker British American Tobacco Korea.  Kim Choong Soo, the governor of the central bank, said on
April 12 that he will alter monetary policy “neither too slowly
nor too fast.” The  Bank of Korea  will meet on May 13 to decide
on its benchmark seven-day repurchase rate, which stands at 3
percent after quarter-point increases in January and March.  “A further delay in increasing rates will risk inflation
getting out control and I believe policy makers are aware of the
danger,” Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst at Taurus
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul, said before the release.  Core prices, which exclude oil and food, rose 3.2 percent
in April from a year earlier, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  