-- 
Starwood Plans to Open 41 Mideast, North Africa Hotels

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-05-03T12:22:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/starwood-plans-to-open-41-hotels-in-middle-east-north-africa-amid-turmoil.html
(Corrects hotel brand in seventh paragraph of story
published May 2.)  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT)  plans to open 41 hotels across the Middle East and North
Africa in the next three years even as political turmoil plagues
parts of the region.  The third-largest U.S. lodging company, which manages 63
properties in the region, will press ahead with its hotel
openings in countries such as  Egypt , Syria and Jordan, Roeland Vos, president for the company’s Europe, Africa and Middle East
division, said in an interview yesterday.  Revolutions in Tunisia and Egypt toppled decades-old
regimes, while war has broken out in  Libya  and civil unrest in
Syria, Bahrain and Yemen has left hundreds dead. In Japan, the
nation’s worst earthquake on record triggered multiple accidents
at a nuclear-power station, causing evacuations and food scares.  “We’re in a cyclical business and things like what
happened in  Japan  and the Middle East haven’t changed the way we
think,” Vos said at the Arabian Hotel Investment Conference in
Dubai. “We still see tremendous growth in the region.”  The turbulence in the Middle East and Japan’s earthquake
and tsunami contributed to a drop in first-quarter profit, the
 White Plains , New York-based company said on April 28. The
earnings of 14 cents a share was about half the average estimate
of 25 cents from 11 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The rise of a middle class in emerging markets such as in
the Near East,  China ,  India  and  Brazil  is encouraging hotel
companies to expand to new regions and widen their offers as
they seek to attract younger travelers, Vos said.  W Hotels  Starwood is expanding fashionable brands such as Aloft and
W Hotels to capture “the very same people who buy Apple
products and IPods,” he said.  Starwood yesterday said it signed an agreement to operate a
220-room hotel in Sharjah, the  United Arab Emirates , in 2013.
The Four Points Sheraton hotel will be part of a mixed-use
development, Starwood said in a statement.  The owner of the St. Regis brand will extend two existing
hotels in Dubai, Vos said. In September, the  Grosvenor House  in
the Dubai Marina will open a second tower, adding 106 rooms and
216 serviced apartments. Starwood will also add 200 rooms to its
 Le Meridien  hotel near the Dubai airport, he said.  “Those are established hotels, so to get business in those
hotels will be fairly easy as all the teams are already in
place,” Guido De Wilde, Starwood’s senior vice president for
the Middle East, said in an interview.  The occupancy rate across Starwood’s 15 properties in Dubai
has been about 88 percent this year, De Wilde said. Room rates
rose 10 percent to 20 percent at Starwood’s beach properties in
the past two years, while rates in the company’s city hotels
were little changed, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 