-- 
U.K. Royal Wedding Draws 22.8 Million Television Viewers on U.S. Networks

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-05-01T07:34:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/u-k-royal-wedding-draws-22-8-million-television-viewers-on-u-s-networks.html
The wedding of Prince William and Kate Middleton was seen by a U.S. television audience of 22.8 million
viewers on channels including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and Walt
Disney Co.’s ABC networks.  Viewers also tuned in for processions and other events
surrounding the ceremony on April 29 at Westminster Abbey in
 London , according to data provided yesterday by Nielsen Co. The
wedding coverage was carried live from 6 a.m. to 7:15 a.m.
Eastern Standard Time on 11 networks, it said.  Worldwide, an estimated 2 billion were expected to have
watched the events unfold on TV, U.K. Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt said in early April. The celebrations were the U.K.’s
biggest royal event since the 1997 funeral of William’s mother,
Diana, who died in a car crash in Paris. Diana’s marriage to
Prince Charles, the heir to the throne, had ended in divorce.  About 18.6 million homes watched the royal wedding, more
than the 14.2 million who tuned in for the wedding of Charles
and Diana in 1981, Nielsen said. Diana’s funeral in 1997 drew
26.1 million households, the TV rating company said.  Kate, dressed in a gown by Alexander McQueen designer Sarah Burton, and the prince, in red military uniform, made their vows
after driving separately through flag-waving, cheering crowds.  After the ceremony, the couple drove in an open state
landau carriage to  Buckingham Palace , the royal residence, where
a crowd estimated at 500,000 by the Metropolitan Police watched
William and Kate emerge on the balcony and kiss.  ‘JU5T WED’  Later the couple drove away from Buckingham Palace in an
open-topped Aston Martin festooned with balloons and with a
license plate that read “JU5T WED.” William was at the wheel
and Kate in the passenger seat. Both waved to the crowds.  During the service, William gave Kate a gold wedding ring
made by a family-owned London-based jeweler,  Wartski , from a
piece of Welsh gold presented to him by the queen after the
engagement was announced last year. He will not wear a ring.  It was the 16th royal wedding at the 1,000-year-old abbey,
and the service was conducted by the Dean of Westminster,  John
Hall , and Chartres. The wedding ceremony was led by the senior
cleric in the Church of  England , the Archbishop of Canterbury,
Rowan Williams.  Those attending the wedding included more than 40 foreign
royals such as Queen Margrethe of  Denmark . Also in the abbey
were members of both families, and friends and acquaintances of
the couple, including soccer player David Beckham and his wife
Victoria and Elton John, who sang at Diana’s funeral.  Outside Royalty  Kate, who will now be known as Princess William of Wales,
is the first woman from outside royalty or the aristocracy to
marry so close to the throne for 350 years. When William becomes
Britain’s monarch, she will be queen.  Queen Elizabeth II ,
William’s grandmother, announced yesterday the couple will be
given the titles of  Duke and Duchess of Cambridge .  William, 28, who as monarch will command Britain’s
military, wore the uniform of a colonel of the Irish Guards
regiment, his senior honorary appointment in the army. He is a
flight lieutenant in the  Royal Air Force , based in north  Wales ,
and could also have worn a naval uniform. His brother Prince Harry, who was best man and has fought in  Afghanistan , wore the
uniform of a captain of the Household Cavalry.  The  Super Bowl  in February had 53.3 million households or
111 million viewers, while 28.9 million homes or 37.8 million
people watched U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s 2009 inauguration,
Nielsen said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  