-- 
U.K. Expels Libyan Ambassador After Attack on Tripoli Embassy

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-05-01T17:03:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/u-k-expels-libyan-ambassador-omar-jelban-after-attack-on-tripoli-embassy.html
The U.K. expelled  Libya ’s ambassador
after its empty embassy in Tripoli was set on fire following a
Libyan government statement that one of Muammar Qaddafi’s sons
was killed by an airstrike.  “The Vienna Convention requires the Qaddafi regime to
protect diplomatic missions in Tripoli,” Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  said in an e-mailed statement today. “By failing
to do so, that regime has once again breached its international
responsibilities and obligations. As a result, I have taken the
decision to expel the Libyan Ambassador.”  Qaddafi’s youngest son, Saif al-Arab, and three
grandchildren were killed in an allied airstrike on Tripoli, the
Libyan government said yesterday. Qaddafi and his wife were in
the house at the time and survived the attack that killed his
son, Moussa Ibrahim, a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, said
in a news conference. The strike was a “direct operation to
assassinate” Qaddafi, he said.  The U.K. has no diplomatic staff in Tripoli, so its embassy
buildings were empty during the attack, a Foreign Office
spokeswoman said today. She declined to be named, in line with
U.K. policy. She said it was likely the diplomatic residence and
chancery were attacked.  “It’s clear that there is fire damage and vandalism to the
buildings, inside and out,” the Foreign Office said in a
statement.  Libyan Ambassador Omar Jelban has been given 24 hours to
leave Britain. He didn’t attend the wedding of  Prince William  on
April 29, according to the Foreign Office, as his invitation was
never sent.  Saif al-Arab Qaddafi  “The attacks against diplomatic missions will not weaken
our resolve to protect the civilian population in Libya,” Hague
said.  Prime Minister David Cameron earlier today refused to
comment on what he called an “unconfirmed report” about the
death of Qaddafi’s son.  “The targeting policy of Nato is absolutely clear, it’s in
line with UN resolution 1973,” Cameron told the  BBC ’s Andrew
Marr Show “It’s about targeting command and control rather than
specific individuals.”  Separately, U.K. Foreign Office Minister Alistair Burt told
Sky News today: “We’ve no verification” of Saif al-Arab
Qaddafi’s death. “They’re still unconfirmed reports. I’m afraid
we don’t know one way or the other.”  Hague is due to arrive in  Egypt  today for talks Monday, May
2, with Egyptian officials, activists and business leaders. The
Foreign Secretary will meet Field Marshall Mohamed Tantawi, the
Head of the Supreme Council for Armed Forces, Prime Minister
Essam Sharaf, Minister of Foreign Affairs Nabil El Arabi, and
youth activists.  He will also hold a meetings with leading
business figures and with Arab League Secretary General Amr Moussa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 