-- 
U.K., Italian Embassies in Tripoli Attacked After NATO Assault on Qaddafi

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   N a d e e m   H a m i d
-- 
2011-05-01T21:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/u-k-italian-embassies-in-tripoli-attacked-after-death-of-qaddafi-s-son.html
The British and Italian embassies in
Tripoli and offices of the  United Nations  came under attack
after Libya said an allied airstrike killed Muammar Qaddafi’s
youngest son, Saif al-Arab, and three grandchildren.  Crowds today assaulted the two embassies, according to
government officials in  London  and  Rome . The UN is evacuating
its international staff from the Libyan capital, the  Associated
Press  said, citing the New York-based international body. The
U.K. has since given Libyan Ambassador Omar Jelban 24 hours to
leave Britain.  Violence intensified in other parts of the Arab world, with
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s military shelling a southern
city to quell an uprising by protesters. In Libya, more than two
months of clashes have killed thousands and helped push oil
prices up more than 30 percent.  “The Vienna Convention requires the Qaddafi regime to
protect diplomatic missions in Tripoli,” U.K. Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  said in an e-mailed statement today. “That regime
has once again breached its international responsibilities and
obligations.”  Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Arab, was killed late yesterday,
Moussa Ibrahim, a spokesman for the Libyan Foreign Ministry said
in a televised press conference. Qaddafi and his wife were in
the house at the time and survived the attack, Ibrahim said. He
called the strike a “direct operation to assassinate” the
Libyan leader.  No Confirmation  The U.S., U.K. and  North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
declined to confirm that Saif al-Arab and the grandchildren were
killed by an allied air strike. NATO said in a statement that
aircraft carried out “precision strikes” during the night
against military installations in Tripoli, including a “known
command and control” building.  “No confirmation from NATO,” Chris Riley, a NATO
spokesman in Brussels, said in an e-mail.  Russia criticized NATO, calling the airstrikes a
disproportionate use of force that exceeds the UN mandate in
 Libya . The attacks raise doubts about claims the coalition
forces are not intent on “the destruction” of the Libyan
leader and his family, according to a statement on the Russian
Foreign Ministry website.  Ferrari Seized  Saif al-Arab, who was born in 1982, is Qaddafi’s least-well
known son. German police once seized a Ferrari owned by Saif al-
Arab, a student at the time, for violating noise restrictions,
according to The Telegraph newspaper. He wasn’t reported to have
any public roles, unlike Saif al-Islam, 38, who has become a
public face of the regime.  Abdul Hafiz Ghoga, a spokesman for the rebels’ National
Transitional Council, said reports of the deaths may be a ploy
by Qaddafi to win international sympathy, according to al-
Jazeera.  “If the news is true, the message has been driven to
him,” said Faraj Najem, a London-based Libyan historian who
opposes Qaddafi. “The pain is closer to him. Death has come
closer to him.”  Yesterday, NATO rejected a cease-fire offer from Qaddafi,
saying his forces must stop their attacks on civilians before it
considers any truce. Qaddafi, 69, said he’ll stay in the North
African nation where his people want “martyrdom or victory” in
the face of a rebel insurgency that began in mid-February.  Cease-Fire Offers  It’s the second time in as many months that Qaddafi has
offered a cease-fire. In March, hours after then-Libyan Foreign
Minister Moussa Koussa said the regime was observing a cease-
fire, Qaddafi’s forces attacked the outskirts of Benghazi.
Koussa has since defected.  Much of the fighting in Libya is now centered on the rebel-
held western port city of Misrata, where opposition forces last
week pushed Qaddafi loyalists out of the city center. Qaddafi’s
troops are shelling civilian areas in the city and attempted to
mine part of the harbor, according to NATO.  The insurgency in Libya has helped push  oil prices  up more
than 30 percent. Crude oil for June delivery rose $1.07 to
settle at $113.93 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
April 29. Futures rose 6.8 percent last month. Qaddafi said no
one can force him to leave Libya and said outsiders won’t
control the nation’s oil,  Africa ’s biggest proven crude
reserves.  Shelling in Syria  In Syria, Assad’s military sent reinforcements to the
southern city of Daraa and shelled the main square in an attempt
to crack down on protesters who defied an order to not hold
demonstrations.  The attacks by tanks forced people to stay inside their
homes, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the  Arab Organization for Human
Rights , said in a telephone interview. At least 60 people were
killed in clashes between protesters and security forces in
Daraa on April 29, Merhi said. Residents have been without
water, power or fuel for almost a week.  Deadly clashes over the past week pushed the number of
deaths nationwide to more than 550 since the revolt began in
mid-March, Mehri and Ammar Qurabi, head of  Syria ’s  National
Organization for Human Rights , said in telephone interviews. The
protests in Syria have presented the greatest challenge to
Assad’s rule since he inherited power from his father 11 years
ago.  The U.S., the European Union and the United Nations  Human
Rights Council  all took actions April 29 against Assad’s
government. President  Barack Obama  ordered a freeze on U.S.
assets and other sanctions against three Syrian officials. The
sanctions also target the Syrian General Intelligence
Directorate and the Quds Force of the Iranian Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps for providing “material support” for
the Syrian government’s crackdown on demonstrators.  Yemeni Politics  In response to unrest in Yemen, Gulf Cooperation Council
Secretary-General Abdel Latif al-Zayyani will return to  Yemen  to
try again to secure a political settlement, the council said.
President Ali Abdullah Saleh yesterday refused to sign an accord
to step down within a month in exchange for immunity, the
council said.  GCC officials are seeking to avert an escalation of the
violence in Yemen, the poorest Arab nation, or a deadly military
divide like the one in Libya. Rising social unrest also
threatens to strengthen al-Qaeda as it seeks to use Yemen as a
base from which to destabilize neighboring  Saudi Arabia , the
world’s largest exporter of crude oil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  