-- 
Libyans Attack U.K., Italian Embassies in Tripoli Following Airstrikes

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   N a d e e m   H a m i d
-- 
2011-05-02T15:54:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/u-k-italian-embassies-in-tripoli-attacked-after-nato-assault-on-qaddafi.html
Crowds attacked the British and
Italian embassies in Tripoli after Libya said an allied
airstrike killed one of Muammar Qaddafi’s sons, Saif al-Arab,
and three grandchildren.  The two embassies were assaulted yesterday, according to
government officials in  London  and  Rome . The United Nations
began evacuating its international staff from the Libyan
capital, the Associated Press said, citing the New York-based
international body. The U.K. gave Libyan Ambassador Omar Jelban
24 hours to leave Britain.  Violence intensified in other parts of the Arab world, with
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s military shelling the main
square of a southern city to quell an uprising by protesters. In
Libya, more than two months of clashes have killed thousands and
helped push oil prices up more than 30 percent.  “The Vienna Convention requires the Qaddafi regime to
protect diplomatic missions in Tripoli,” U.K. Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  said in an e-mailed statement. “That regime has
once again breached its international responsibilities and
obligations.”  The U.S. reserved condemnation of the assaults pending
confirmation. “If true, we condemn these attacks in the
strongest possible terms,” said Mark Toner, a State Department
spokesman, according to the  Associated Press .  Turkish Embassy  Turkey , which has acted as a diplomatic go-between for its
western allies and the Libyan government, will temporarily
evacuate its embassy in Tripoli, Anatolia news agency said
citing Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu.  Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Arab, was killed late April 30,
Moussa Ibrahim, a spokesman for the Libyan Foreign Ministry said
in a televised press conference. Qaddafi and his wife were in
the house at the time and survived the attack, Ibrahim said. He
called the strike a “direct operation to assassinate” the
Libyan leader.  The U.S., U.K. and  North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
declined to confirm that Saif al-Arab and the grandchildren were
killed by an allied air strike. NATO said in a statement that
aircraft carried out “precision strikes” during the night
against military installations in Tripoli, including a “known
command and control” building.  “No confirmation from NATO,” Chris Riley, a NATO
spokesman in Brussels, said in an e-mail.  Russian Criticism  Russia criticized NATO, calling the airstrikes a
disproportionate use of force that exceeds the UN mandate in
 Libya . The attacks raise doubts about claims the coalition
forces are not intent on “the destruction” of the Libyan
leader and his family, according to a statement on the Russian
Foreign Ministry website.  Saif al-Arab, who was born in 1982, is Qaddafi’s least-well
known son. German police once seized a Ferrari owned by Saif al-
Arab, a student at the time, for violating noise restrictions,
according to The Telegraph newspaper. He wasn’t reported to have
any public roles, unlike Saif al-Islam, 38, who has become a
public face of the regime.  Abdul Hafiz Ghoga, a spokesman for the rebels’ National
Transitional Council, said reports of the deaths may be a ploy
by Qaddafi to win international sympathy, according to Al
Jazeera television.  “If the news is true, the message has been driven to
him,” said Faraj Najem, a London-based Libyan historian who
opposes Qaddafi. “The pain is closer to him. Death has come
closer to him.”  Cease-fire Rejected  NATO rejected a cease-fire offer from Qaddafi, saying his
forces must stop their attacks on civilians before it considers
any truce. Qaddafi, said he’ll stay in the North African nation
where his people want “martyrdom or victory” in the face of a
rebel insurgency that began in mid-February.  It’s the second time in as many months that Qaddafi has
offered a cease-fire. In March, hours after then-Libyan Foreign
Minister Moussa Koussa said the regime was observing a cease-
fire, Qaddafi’s forces attacked the outskirts of Benghazi.
Koussa has since defected.  Much of the fighting in Libya is now centered on the rebel-
held western port city of Misrata, where opposition forces last
week pushed Qaddafi loyalists out of the city center. Qaddafi’s
troops are shelling civilian areas in the city and attempted to
mine part of the harbor, according to NATO.  Oil Prices   The insurgency in Libya, which has Africa’s biggest proven
crude reserves, has helped push oil prices up more than 30
percent. Oil for June delivery rose 47 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
$114.40 a barrel at 10:09 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , amid concern that the death of  Osama bin Laden  will
trigger retaliatory attacks. Earlier, it touched $114.65, the
highest level since Sept. 22, 2008.  In  Syria , Assad’s military sent reinforcements to the
southern city of Daraa and shelled the main square in an attempt
to crack down on protesters who defied an order to not hold
demonstrations.  The attacks by tanks forced people to stay inside their
homes, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the  Arab Organization for Human
Rights , said in a telephone interview. At least 60 people were
killed in clashes between protesters and security forces in
Daraa on April 29, Merhi said. Residents have been without
water, power or fuel for almost a week.  Deadly clashes over the past week pushed the number of
deaths nationwide to more than 550 since the revolt began in
mid-March, Merhi and Ammar Qurabi, head of Syria’s  National
Organization for Human Rights , said in telephone interviews. The
protests in Syria have presented the greatest challenge to
Assad’s rule since he inherited power from his father 11 years
ago.  Asset Freeze  The U.S., the European Union and the  United Nations  Human
Rights Council all took actions April 29 against Assad’s
government. President  Barack Obama  ordered a freeze on U.S.
assets and other sanctions against three Syrian officials. The
sanctions also target the Syrian General Intelligence
Directorate and the Quds Force of the Iranian Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps for providing “material support” for
the Syrian government’s crackdown on demonstrators.  In response to unrest in Yemen, Gulf Cooperation Council
Secretary-General Abdel Latif al-Zayyani will return to Yemen to
try again to secure a political settlement, the council said
yesterday. President Ali Abdullah Saleh has refused to sign an
accord to step down within a month in exchange for immunity, the
council said.  GCC officials are seeking to avert an escalation of the
violence in  Yemen , the poorest Arab nation, or a deadly military
divide like the one in Libya.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 