-- 
Venezuela’s Chavez to Cut Bank Reserve Requirements by 3% to Fund Housing

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-05-01T01:10:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/venezuela-s-chavez-to-cut-bank-reserve-requirements-by-3-to-fund-housing.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said he has asked the central bank to lower reserve requirements
by 3 percent to free up money so that private banks can provide
credit to build houses.  Chavez, speaking on state television at the start of a
social program that aims to eradicate Venezuela’s housing
deficit of more than 2 million homes, said banks will be obliged
to finance a portion of the 30 billion bolivars ($7 billion)
needed to build the government’s 2011 target of 153,000 homes.
Central bank President Nelson Merentes said lowering reserve
requirements by 3 percent would free up 10 billion bolivars
($2.33 billion).  “We are going to lower, we want to lower, we need to lower
reserve requirements,” Chavez said. “Look, we’ve raised 10
billion bolivars in 10 minutes.”  Chavez is looking for sources of liquidity to increase
spending ahead of presidential elections next year, when he
hopes to win a third consecutive six-year term.  The government this week reformed an oil windfall tax that
may hand the government as much as $12.7 billion in
discretionary spending if  oil prices  average $100 a barrel
during the year.  Devaluation  Chavez in January devalued the bolivar by weakening the
 exchange rate  on essential goods such as food and medicine by 40
percent to 4.3 bolivars per dollar in an effort to increase the
bolivar-based value of state oil company Petroloes de Venezuela
SA’s exports.  Chavez warned private banks that he would sanction any that
refuse to provide loans for housing projects. Chavez in January
threatened to nationalize the local unit of  Spain ’s Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA after he accused the bank of failing to
provide resources to complete a housing project.  Chavez said today that he has put himself at the forefront
of the housing deficit theme as he introduced the Mision
Vivienda, or Housing Mission, project. The government plans to
build two million homes in the next seven years, Chavez said
today on  his Twitter account .  Venezuela  in October lowered the amount of money that banks
must keep on reserve at the central bank for a second time in a
week, to 17 percent from 20 percent.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Charlie Devereux at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  