-- 
Wagyu Ranchers Defy Evacuation Orders as Radiation Threatens Japan’s Farms

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-05-02T07:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/wagyu-farmers-defy-evacuation-order-as-radiation-threatens-crop.html
Takeshi Yamada frowns as he surveys
his herd of 28 wagyu beef cattle, prized for their marbled meat
and fetching as much as 1 million yen ($12,320) per head.  “The government told us to evacuate, but we don’t want to
leave our cattle behind,” said the 62-year-old farmer in Iitate
village in northern  Japan . “If we’re forced to go, we are
worried we won’t be able to come back and farm again.”  Iitate became a haven for refugees after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami triggered the worst nuclear crisis since
Chernobyl by crippling the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
station 40 kilometers (25 miles) away. Now, the government is
telling residents of Iitate and three other villages to leave by
the end of May because contamination in soil and water has
reached dangerous levels.  The latest evacuation order underscores how the ripple
effects of what Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  called Japan’s biggest
crisis since World War II continue to play out seven weeks after
the record quake. Fukushima prefecture’s farming industry, worth
252 billion yen a year, is at stake.  “There’s no sound from tractors plowing the fields,”
Yamada said. “It’s very quiet, like a silent spring.”  April is normally the busiest time of year for Yamada, a
time when he plants rice, tobacco and vegetables on a 4.7
hectare (11.6 acres) plot that helped him earn 15 million yen
last year. These days he just feeds his cattle, which may be
tainted by radiation, rendering the meat unfit for sale.  Wagyu Beef  Iitate beef has earned the top grade of A-5 for wagyu in
Tokyo’s wholesale meat market in Shinagawa, and cows have sold
for as much as 1 million yen, said Hiroyuki Murayama, a local
official in charge of promoting the village’s produce.  Japan shipped farm produce worth 286 billion yen overseas
last year, with beef representing 3.4 billion yen, according to
government figures. The nation exported 677 metric tons of beef,
including wagyu, in the year to March 31, 2010, official data
show.  Vietnam  was the top buyer with 433 tons, followed by  Hong
Kong  with 119 tons and the U.S. with 81 tons.  Fukushima is the country’s 10th biggest producer of cattle
including wagyu cows, a breed genetically disposed to intense
marbling that makes the meat tender and juicy.  Iitate Mayor Norio Kanno spent 15 years promoting the
area’s wagyu beef and organic vegetables. He was rewarded in
September when his town was invited to join the Most Beautiful
Villages in Japan Union, a group that seeks to preserve rural
scenery and traditions.  ‘Still Sinking’  “What we achieved over a long period of time is being
destroyed by the nuclear accident,” Shinichi Aizawa, director
at the Iitate government office, said in an interview. “Unlike
Miyagi and Iwate prefectures, which are beginning to rebuild
from damage caused by the quake and tsunami, we are still
sinking with no end in sight.”  The population in Iitate has declined to 5,000 from the
pre-quake level of 6,100, as residents, mostly couples with
small children, left the village. Of 1,800 households, 1,200 are
farming families, Aizawa said.  Those who left joined an exodus of 50,000 families who were
earlier told to leave areas within 20 kilometers of the plant.  The agriculture ministry plans to move beef cattle and
dairy cows from Iitate and other radioactive areas in Fukushima
to locations further away. All livestock will be checked to
prevent movements of contaminated animals. After slaughter, meat
will be tested to ensure tainted products aren’t shipped.  Compensation Sought  “We will monitor them carefully,” said Rei Kikuchi at the
ministry’s livestock production division.  Yamada and other villagers are calling on the Fukushima
plant’s operator,  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., and the government
to provide compensation. Tepco has promised initial payments of
1 million yen to households forced to leave. That isn’t enough
for farmers or business owners who may not return, Aizawa said.  “If all the companies shift their production facilities
from the village, there won’t be any jobs here and nobody will
return home even after radiation stops leaking from the plant,”
Aizawa said. “Our village is at risk of extinction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 