-- 
Yemen Accord Signing Has Been Postponed, Gulf Official Says

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-05-01T12:08:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-01/yemen-accord-signing-has-been-postponed-gulf-official-says-2-.html
A Gulf-brokered agreement that calls
for Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh to step down won’t be
signed today as planned, a Gulf official said.  Saleh refused to sign the accord yesterday in his capacity
as president, saying he would only ratify it as chairman of the
ruling General People’s Congress, according to Yemeni opposition
leaders. That is unacceptable to the opposition because it would
entail changing the wording of the accord, Mohammed Basendwah,
head of the Preparatory Committee for National Dialogue, said in
a telephone interview from Sana’a.  Gulf Cooperation Council officials will meet in the Saudi
capital of  Riyadh  today to discuss the initiative, the official
said on condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to
speak to the media.  Protests in Yemen have persisted even after Saleh and the
main opposition movement agreed to the plan brokered by Gulf
states for him to cede power in a month’s time and be granted
immunity from prosecution. He would be the third Middle Eastern
leader forced from office by popular protest movements this
year, after  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  and  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  GCC Secretary-General Abdel Latif al-Zayyani met with Saleh
yesterday and informed the opposition following his meeting that
the president hadn’t signed the accord, Mohammed al-Qahtan,
spokesman of the opposition Joint Meeting Parties, told Al
Arabiya television. Saleh had been expected to sign yesterday in
advance of a formal signing ceremony in Riyadh later today.  Presidential Signature  Ahmed al-Soufi, a senior member of Yemen’s ruling party,
said Saleh is “not party” to the conflict, when asked by Al-
Jazeera television yesterday whether the president will sign.  The Joint Meeting Parties, which represents six opposition
groups, is concerned that by not signing as head of state Saleh
may not abide by the terms of the accord.  “If he signs as chairman of the party and the party says
it rejects his decision, he will remain president,” Mohammed
al-Mutawakkil, a member of the JMP’s higher council, said in a
telephone interview from Sana’a.  “We’re waiting to see what the GCC will do,” said
Basendwah, who was to head the opposition delegation to the
signing ceremony.  ‘Not Party’  In an interview with Russia Today Channel, Saleh repeated
his acceptance of the Gulf initiative, saying it “must be
carried out in whole and that the GCC member countries must work
on creating a mechanism to implement it without changes to any
item or clause,” according to a transcript carried by the
official Saba news agency yesterday.  Saleh said he had accepted the 30-day time frame outlined
in the initiative, adding that he has no plans to return to a
position of authority, according to Saba’s English-language
website.  “Authority for me is a finished topic,” said Saleh,
according to Saba. “I will not run again for power, bequeath it
or do anything regarding it.”  In March, Saleh, 69, agreed to an opposition proposal to
hand over power by the end of the year, then backtracked by
saying he’d stand down only after a newly elected government was
formed and power was transferred to safer hands.  The agreement was brokered by ministers from the GCC, which
includes the  United Arab Emirates ,  Bahrain ,  Saudi Arabia ,
Oman, Qatar and  Kuwait . It would grant immunity for Saleh, his
family and long-time aides.  Escalation of Violence  GCC officials are seeking to avert an escalation of the
violence in Yemen or a deadly military divide like the one in
 Libya . Rising social unrest also threatens to strengthen al-
Qaeda as it seeks to use Yemen, the poorest Arab nation, as a
base from which to destabilize neighboring Saudi Arabia, the
world’s largest exporter of crude oil.  Two Yemeni soldiers were killed when armed men attacked a
police station in the southern city of Aden, the state-run Saba
news agency reported, citing an unidentified security official.  The U.S. has backed Saleh, a key ally in the fight against
al-Qaeda, with $300 million a year of military and economic aid.  A weak central government in Yemen risks mirroring the
situation in Somalia, across the  Gulf of Aden , where there
hasn’t been a functioning central administration since 1991.
Somalia has become a breeding ground for pirates who attack
shipping lanes.  Protests in Yemen calling for an end to Saleh’s rule are in
their third month. At least 100 people have died in Yemen as
security forces repeatedly fired on demonstrations that began on
Feb. 11, according to the Arabic Sisters Forum for Human Rights
in Sana’a.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  