-- ‘Magnificent Mary’ Boxes to End Indian Women’s Olympic Wait
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-07T10:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/-magnificent-mary-boxes-to-end-indian-women-s-olympic-drought.html
Mary Kom, a 29-year-old mother of
twins, needs two more victories to become India’s first female
Olympic champion.  Kom is among the favorites to punch her way to the 51-
kilogram (112 pound) gold medal as women’s boxing makes its
debut in London, 108 years after men first fought for the right
to be called Olympic champion.  Should she win her semifinal tomorrow, Kom may meet Marlen
Esparza of the U.S. on Aug. 9. Esparza, 23, has deals to promote
 Procter & Gamble Co .’s CoverGirl cosmetics and to appear in
Spanish language commercials for  McDonalds Corp. (MCD)  and Coca-Cola
Co. That’s not typical for a female boxer, said Laila Ali, the
daughter of former Olympic heavyweight champion  Muhammad Ali .  “In men’s boxing, it used to be if you win the Olympics,
you could say ’Oh, I’m going go pro’ and a lot more money would
be offered because you won the Olympics,” Laila Ali said in a
telephone interview. “With women, even if you win the Olympics,
it doesn’t necessarily mean you’re going to make a lot of
money.”  As president of the  Women’s Sports Foundation , a U.S. non-
profit that provides grants to female athletes including boxers,
34-year-old Laila Ali, who retired with a 24-0 record, lobbied
for years to get women’s boxing added to the Olympics.  Five Titles  Nicknamed Magnificent Mary and the Queen of the Ring, Kom
is the only woman to have won five amateur  world boxing
championship  titles. Adding Olympic gold could boost her income
dramatically, her publicist, Janit Desai, said in an interview.  “Her brand value will be huge,” Desai said. “She’ll be
one of the most marketable Indian athletes.”  While  India  has won the Olympic men’s field hockey gold
medal a record eight times, most recently in 1980, the country’s
sole individual champion is Abhinav Bindra, who won the men’s
10-meter air rifle event four years ago in Beijing.  Kom, who’s also known as Chungneijang Hmangte, has an
income of about $550 a month from an honorary job with the local
police and a sponsorship from  Herbal Life India , a Cayman
Islands-based maker of nutritional supplements. She has bought
her parents land and is paying for her brothers and sisters to
go to school.  ‘Great Example’  As with most Olympians, Kom’s pursuit of gold has also
meant sacrifices. Her sons celebrated their fifth birthday
without their mother and father, Onkholer, who’s also in  London .  “As a woman, as a housewife, it’s been very difficult for
her to keep on training,” Onkholer Kom said in an interview.
“There’s loneliness on both sides but it was filled up by Mary
winning yesterday.”  Onkholer said his wife is “a great example of what women
can do after marriage or after having children” in a society
where females continue to fight for greater representation in
many fields.  Kom, a right-hander from the northeastern state of Manipur,
beat  Poland ’s Karolina Michalczuk in her first bout on Aug. 5,
the day women’s boxing made its games debut. Yesterday she
outscored Tunisian Maroua Rahali to set up a meeting with
Britain’s Nicola Adams tomorrow. Esparza fights Cancan Ren from
 China  in the other semifinal.  Even though about 50 Indian journalists swarmed her after
the victory over Rahali, Kom wasn’t the boxer the majority of
fans at the ExCel Arena in London had shown up to watch.  Irish Superstar  Lightweight Katie Taylor, 26, a four-time world champion,
is being cheered with the passion of soccer fans while becoming
the focus of television news bulletins back home in Ireland.  “That was unreal,” supporter Laura Flynn, a 30-year-old
from Dublin, said after watching Taylor beat Britain’s Natasha
Jonas. “I flew over by myself to support her.”  By reaching the semifinals, Taylor is guaranteed at least a
bronze medal, which goes to both beaten semifinalists in boxing.
She’d like to add to Ireland’s gold-medal haul, however. Coming
into the 2012 games, the country had won eight golds and 23
total Olympic medals -- compared with 18 golds and 22 total
medals for U.S. swimmer  Michael Phelps .  Taylor takes on Mavzuna Chorieva from Tajikistan tomorrow
for the right to face Brazilian Adriana Araujo or Sofya Ochigava
of  Russia  in the 60-kilogram final the following day.  While Taylor is a superstar in Ireland, women’s boxing
still has a long way to go in the U.S. before it can be
considered mainstream, said Esparza. People jump to
stereotypical conclusions when she tells them what her sport is,
she said.  “You don’t look like a boxer,” is a usual reaction, she
said. “‘Do you beat up your boyfriend?’ I get that one a whole
lot, too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at London’s Olympic Park at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  