-- T. Rowe Sees Food Fight Over Newest Junk Bonds: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-08-06T15:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/t-rowe-sees-food-fight-over-newest-junk-bonds-credit-markets.html
The value of new  junk bonds  is rising
by the most in at least three years relative to outstanding debt
as low trading volume and faster cash inflows into mutual funds
force investors to jockey for initial offerings.  New speculative-grade issues have outperformed Barclays
Plc’s high-yield  index  by about 1.8 percent this year, more than
in 2011 and 2010. Notes from Smithfield, Virginia-based
 Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the largest U.S. pork processor, rose 5.8
cents to 105.3 cents on the dollar since being sold July 18,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Junk-bond fund managers that have received $43.1 billion of
deposits this year are struggling to obtain securities as
 trading  volumes decline, reducing the accessibility of older
bonds. The squeeze is exacerbated by a 54 percent drop in
monthly  debt sales  since May, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  It’s “a food fight” for new issues, said Mark Vaselkiv,
president of the $9.36 billion T. Rowe Price High Yield Fund.
“The major dynamic that’s affecting the market is a relative
scarcity of good quality product. Many of the major high-yield
managers are struggling to stay fully invested.”  Beating Stocks  High-yield, high-risk bonds, graded below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , have
returned 9.45 percent this year, including reinvested interest,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show, compared with 8.82
percent for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  when including
dividends.  Investors are looking further down the credit spectrum in
search of returns as the  Federal Reserve  holds benchmark
 interest rates  near zero through at least late 2014 to help
jump-start an economy in which the  unemployment rate  has held at
8 percent or more for 42 months.  Junk-bond funds received $9.32 billion of inflows in July,
the most since February, EPFR Global data show.  “Demand is intense” and the allocations of new bonds
“are finite,”  Martin Fridson , a global credit strategist in
 New York  at BNP Paribas Investment Partners, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s become tough to buy the acceptable quality
paper that the portfolio managers want to own.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. fell, with the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declining 1.2 basis points to a mid-price of 102.3 basis points
as of 11:14 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Rate Swaps  That’s the lowest level on an intra-day basis since May 10
for the measure, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, decreased 0.75 basis point to 20 basis
points as of 11:14 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of Caracas-based Petroleos de Venezuela SA, or PDVSA,
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, with 50 trades of $1 million or
more as of 11:07 a.m. in New York, Trace data show.  Smithfield Bonds  Recently issued speculative-grade securities have returned
1.8 percent more than the Barclays U.S. High Yield Index this
year, compared with 1.71 percent last year and 1.28 percent in
2010. About half of the outperformance came in the first day of
trading, according to an Aug. 3 report by Barclays analysts led
by Jeffrey Meli and Bradley Rogoff.  “Managers like ourselves that don’t get the allocations
they want will go back into the secondary market to fill out
orders,” T. Rowe’s Vaselkiv said in a telephone interview. “We
typically end up paying more than the offering price to fill out
allocations.”  Smithfield sold $1 billion of 6.625 percent, 10-year notes
on July 18 in the company’s first debt sale in more than three
years, increasing the size from $650 million, a person familiar
with the transaction said at the time of the deal who asked not
to be identified because the terms are private.  The bonds were sold at a spread of 515 basis points more
than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, 101 basis points less
than the relative yield on Smithfield’s June 2009 sale of $850
million of 10 percent securities due in July 2014.  Cash Inflows  Demand for larger returns has induced investors to seek out
the debt of high-yield, high-risk companies such as  New York- 
based      CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , the small-business lender that exited
bankruptcy two years ago, pushing yields on the firm’s bonds
lower than the average for all investment-grade debt.  The company’s $1.5 billion of 4.75 percent notes sold in
February traded at 104.2 cents on the dollar Aug. 3 for a yield
of 3.01 percent, Bloomberg prices show, compared with average
yields on all investment-grade debt of 3.08 percent based on
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master index.  B/E Aerospace Inc. (BEAV)  sold $500 million of 5.25 percent, 10-
year notes on March 8, after increasing the offering from $375
million, the Wellington, Florida-based company said in a
statement at the time. The maker of premium seating used on
Deutsche Lufthansa AG’s 747-8 airplanes sold $800 million more
of the notes in a reopening on July 12, up from the $675 million
initially planned.  The notes, priced at par in the first sale, have climbed to
106.3 cents on the dollar, Trace data show.  Sales Drop  “You’re seeing cash come into this market hand over
fist,” Peter Toal, the head of Americas leveraged finance
syndicate at Barclays in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “When you have deals that are multiple times over-
subscribed, you can’t feed everybody.”  High-yield bond issuance has slowed as  Europe ’s debt crisis
intensified and a weakening U.S. economy deterred companies from
raising money. Sales declined to a monthly average of $13.8
billion in May and June from $29.9 billion of debt in January
through April.  Cash-like investments accounted for an average 7.7 percent
of high-yield bond funds’ assets at the end of June, 2.6
percentage points more than a year earlier, according to data
from the  Investment Company Institute  in  Washington .  “As the inflows have accelerated, the competitiveness of
bidders for new issues has intensified,” Fridson said. “It’s
not easy to buy the paper you want to buy in the secondary
market because things have been tight for a while and so that
makes the new-issue market the place to put money to work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  