-- Adidas Helps Cuban Olympic Boxers in Seeking Gold-Medal Rebound
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-08-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/adidas-helps-cuban-olympic-boxers-in-seeking-gold-medal-rebound.html
Cuba is seeking to add to its 32
Olympic boxing gold medals in  London  after failing to get one
for the first time since 1968 at the last games. One of the
team’s backers stayed loyal since Beijing:  Adidas AG. (ADS)   The German company extended its support to younger talent
as well as elite athletes from the Communist nation in recent
years, according to Cuban boxing coach Julio Mena. They get as
many as three sets of apparel annually from an Adidas warehouse
in Cuba, said Pedro Salgado, a Cuban who coaches  Ecuador ’s team.
Adidas also provides gloves and other equipment, Mena said.  As Beaverton, Oregon-based  Nike Inc. (NKE)  is banned from trading
with Cuba under a U.S.-backed blockade that dates back to 1962,
Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Adidas is “spreading the net
wide” by supporting Cuban athletes as it tries to increase
business in  emerging markets ,  Paul Swinand , a sporting-goods
analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago , said.  “They’re hoping they can get medals and world exposure on
the cheap,” Swinand said in a telephone interview.  At the London games, six of Cuba’s eight male boxers
reached the quarterfinals in  different weight categories .
Flyweight Robeisy Ramirez, 18, fights Britain’s Andrew Selby at
the ExCel Arena for a semifinal berth today.  Cuba’s tally of boxing gold medals is second only to the
U.S., and heavyweights Teofilo Stevenson and Felix Savon won
three each. Adidas began backing a few elite Cuban athletes at
the 1980 Moscow Olympics, when most wore Cuban brand Batos,
according to national taekwondo coach Ramon Arias. The
relationship survived Cuba’s boycott of the 1984 and 1988 games.  ‘Ain’t so Easy’  Several boxers defected to become professional after the
last two games, weakening Cuba’s medal chances. More nations are
also sending competitive teams, former heavyweight champion
Evander Holyfield said. Savon’s cousin, Erislandy, was one of
the Cubans eliminated in the preliminary bouts in London.  “The Cubans used to blaze,” Holyfield, 49, said in an
interview. “Now it ain’t so easy.”  Under the Adidas agreement, Cuban athletes wear the second-
biggest sporting-goods maker’s apparel in medal ceremonies,
Adidas spokeswoman Katya Schreiber said by phone. She declined
to discuss the accord in more detail. Adidas also has deals with
10 other national Olympic associations, including Britain,
Schreiber said.  Image Risk  The pact is unusual for Adidas, which normally backs
“conservative” sports like soccer and could risk hurting its
image in the U.S. because of political tension with Cuba, said
 Simon Chadwick , a professor of sports marketing strategy at the
U.K.’s Coventry University.  Former Cuban leader  Fidel Castro  often wore Adidas
tracksuits in public before ceding command to his brother Raul
in 2008 because of poor health. Swinand said outside the
“extremely sensitive” Miami region, where many Cuban exiles
live, he doesn’t see much danger to Adidas.  “If a Cuban boxer wins a gold medal and is a nice guy,
people wouldn’t worry about politics,” Swinand said.  Adidas also provides free uniforms, gloves and head-guards
to boxers for bouts at the London games, according to  Venezuela 
boxing coach Alfredo Ramos. Some teams like the U.S., which uses
Everlast Worldwide Inc, and  Italy , backed by  Asics Corp. (7936) , have
their own apparel supplier.  Selective Support  Away from the Olympics, Adidas is more selective about
supporting boxers, according to P.K. Muralidharan Raja, the
secretary general of the Indian boxing federation.  He said Adidas rejected his recent proposal to even buy
1,400 sets of equipment and apparel for boxers because the
company said it wasn’t worthwhile to ship such a small amount
from other countries.  “There’s a big market out there but they don’t seem
interested,” Raja said in an interview.  Instead, Indian boxers buy  Adidas gloves, head-guards and
boots  at shops when they go to tournaments in  Europe  because
it’s cheaper than buying them in India, Raja said. Two of the
country’s seven male boxers made the quarterfinals in London.  While Cuba’s population of 11 million is dwarfed by  India ’s
1.2 billion people, the island nation continues to coach
thousands of boxers from age 10 upwards, Mena said.  “We’ve got the same Cuban boxing school as before, the one
that has won 32 gold medals,” Mena, 62, said in an interview.
“In every municipality there are boxing gyms.”  Cubans feel “great affection” towards Adidas in return
for its loyalty, Mena said. When former Olympic champion
Stevenson died at age 60 in June, a pair of red Adidas boxing
gloves were  laid on his coffin .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff at the ExCel Arena in London
at  aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  