-- Admiral Named to Take Command of Missile Defense Agency
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-08-06T19:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/admiral-named-to-take-command-of-missile-defense-agency.html
The White House has tapped a Navy
admiral to be the first sailor to head the U.S.  Missile Defense
Agency .  If the Senate approves, Rear Admiral  James Syring  will
replace the current director, U.S. Army Lieutenant General
Patrick O’Reilly, whose abusive behavior toward subordinates has
hurt morale at the agency, according to a May 2 report by the
Pentagon Inspector General.  “Witnesses testified that O’Reilly’s leadership style
resulted in a command climate of fear and low morale,” the
inspector general found.  Syring has been nominated for promotion to vice admiral
“while serving as director of the Missile Defense Agency,”
R.S. Erskine, the director of management in the Office of the
Chief of Naval Operations, wrote in a letter delivered Friday to
the Senate Armed Services Committee.  The Senate panel will review the nomination next month when
the Senate returns from its August recess, and Syring then must
be approved by the full Senate.  Syring, 48, is currently  Program Executive Office  for Naval
Integrated Warfare Systems. He would be the  first naval officer 
to head the Missile Defense Agency  The MDA is responsible for developing, fielding and
upgrading the nation’s ground- and sea-based missile defense
programs, working with Japan and Israel, among other nations.
Its top contractors are Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) ;  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , based in Bethesda, Maryland;  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  of
Waltham, Massachusetts; Falls Church, Virgina-based  Northrop
Grumman Corp. (NOC) ; and  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  of Dulles, Virginia.
The Pentagon is seeking $7.7 billion for the agency in fiscal
2013.  Spokesman Unaware  MDA spokesman  Richard Lehner  in an e-mail statement today
said he had no comment and wasn’t aware of the announcement
tapping Syring to head the agency.  Separately, Army Secretary John McHugh last month asked the
Pentagon inspector general to investigate whether O’Reilly
misled Congress in the continuing dispute over his leadership of
the Missile Defense Agency.  McHugh asked that Acting Inspector General Lynne Halbrooks
review a lawmaker’s concerns that O’Reilly attempted to
“misdirect” a congressional oversight panel that asked him to
assess his agency’s morale.  In a July 27 memo, the MDA’s executive director, John
James, Jr., warned its employees and contractors to stop using
their government computers to surf the Internet for pornographic
sites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  