-- Lady Gaga’s Malta MTV Makeover Is Sought by Manchester
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-08-07T07:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/lady-gaga-s-malta-mtv-makeover-is-sought-by-manchester.html
Manchester, home to  The Smiths ,  Oasis 
and  The Verve , is turning to its roots to lure concertgoers to
the northern English city by teaming with another rock ’n’ roll
brand:  MTV .  The Manchester City Council agreed to host a concert for
free next month with the Viacom Inc.-owned channel. MTV will
bring the stars and film the event to screen via its online,
mobile and pay-TV platforms. Manchester, into the second year of
a 170 million-pound ($265 million)  austerity program , will get a
30-minute program highlighting the city’s attractions.  The partnership adds to efforts by MTV, which  began  in 1981
with the clip “Video Killed the Radio Star,” to use the pull
of its brand to attract tourists. MTV, which has brought  Lady
Gaga ,  Justin Bieber  and  Snoop Dogg  to concerts in  Malta ,
Malaysia and  Mexico , said a fifth of all travelers are aged 16
to 29 and they account for $136 billion in annual revenue,
citing the World Youth Student & Educational Travel
Confederation.  “Effectively MTV is getting governments to market their
brands,” says  Mark Mulligan , an independent music industry
analyst and former vice president at Forrester Research. “It’s
incredibly smart brand extension through these concerts.”  It’s not only the hosts and MTV which benefit as artists
have realized that these shows can help their careers, said Bob Bakish, chief executive officer of  Viacom International Media
Networks .  Flo Rida  “In the early days we had to do some arm-twisting to get
artists to perform in Malta while now it’s become something
desirable to do,” he said in an interview. Lady Gaga, who has
won five Grammy awards and was the music industry’s best-paid
woman last year with about $90 million,  according  to Forbes,
attended Malta as a relatively unknown artist in the early days
and asked to return when she had become a superstar, he said.  MTV’s foray into music tourism started in 2007 with the
first  MTV Isle of Malta  concert and the annual event has since
featured pop singers including  Nelly Furtado  and rappers  Flo
Rida  and  Will.i.am.  It’s become the largest free open-air
concert in  Europe  and drew 50,000 fans in June, with sponsors
like  Unilever (UNA) ’s Cornetto ice cream brand and  Luxottica Group
SpA (LUX) ’s Ray-Ban sunglasses.  “You will see this business continue to grow for us with
returning franchises,” Bakish said. Through multi-year deals
with tourism authorities, MTV is able to “establish a hip
destination that can move the needle on music tourism.”  Profit Falls  Viacom’s media networks unit, which owns MTV, Nickelodeon
and  Comedy Central , contributed 92 percent of operating profit
in the year ended September 2011. While the company, which also
holds the MTV Video Music Award show each year, is expanding its
concerts business, it’s also been hit by the global economic
crisis. Viacom last week reported an 7 percent decline in third-
quarter profit.  The concerts “drive a growing category of business for us,
the travel-related business,” Bakish said, adding that
advertising revenue in the segment is growing by a double-digit
percentage figure.  The partnership with MTV boosted tourism on the
Mediterranean island and helped shed its image as a destination
for older travelers, said  Josef Formosa-Gauci , the CEO of the
Malta Tourism Authority.  In the six years MTV Isle of Malta has been held, the
number of visitors younger than 24 increased by 88 percent and
now account for 20.3 percent of all tourists.  Tourism Boost  “It’s rare you get to see a concert with such big stars
for free,” said Kelly Attard, 30, a London-based marketing
manager at  J Sainsbury Plc. (SBRY)  Attard, who organized a trip to
Malta around the MTV concert in 2009, which featured Lady Gaga
on her second showing at the event, says the artist told
concertgoers “she felt a lot of love for Malta as it helped
kickstart her career.”  The Malaysian MTV concert, in its fourth year, featured
Justin Bieber last month and drew about 18,500 people. Mexico,
which has hosted  The Smashing Pumpkins , is in its third year and
will feature Linkin Park in September. Other live concerts MTV
has filmed include a gig by  Coldplay  in  Japan , the  Red Hot Chili
Peppers  in  Belfast ,  Maroon 5  in  Las Vegas  and  Gorillaz  in
 London .  Musical Heritage  “Manchester is world famous for its musical heritage and
we can use this opportunity to showcase what the city is about
and expose more people to Manchester,” said city councilor  Rosa
Battle .  MTV, which started in 1981 with the words “Ladies and
gentlemen, rock and roll,” began diversifying from videos in
the late 1980s by creating its own content such as fashion
program “House of Style,” and quiz show “Remote Control.”
Today, the channel is known for reality programs such as
“ Jersey Shore ” and “Teen Mom.”  The concert business is typical for MTV’s strategy to
generate revenue from several offerings that are still tied to
its music heritage, said  Toby Southgate , CEO of  The Brand Union ,
a London-based marketing consultancy.  “MTV is no longer a music broadcaster, it’s a curator and
provider of content,” he said. “It’s now a central point that
helps consumers develop and maintain a relationship with
artists.”  In the fast-changing entertainment business, MTV is an
example of how companies need to expand to make sure they stay
relevant to new generations of consumers, said Mulligan.  “It used to be that you tuned into MTV to watch videos and
tuned out when you wanted to watch something else,” he said.
“Now they have their own shows, other MTV channels that cater
to other viewing habits and also concerts. It’s become a
lifestyle choice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  