-- Ageas Insurance Net Tops Estimates as Combined Ratio Drops
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-08-06T16:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/ageas-insurance-profit-beats-estimates-as-combined-ratio-drops.html
Ageas SA (AGS) , the majority owner of
 Belgium ’s biggest life insurer, reported insurance profit that
beat analyst estimates and announced a stock buyback as a lockup
on 78.9 million shares held by  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  expires.  Second-quarter profit from insurance operations was 147.6
million euros ($182.8 million) compared with a loss of 23.6
million euros a year earlier, the Brussels-based company said
today in a statement. Analysts had projected insurance profit of
133.5 million euros, the average of three estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Claim payments and other expenses as a percentage of
premiums fell to less than 100 percent for the first time since
2008, indicating profitable  underwriting  after Ageas raised
premium rates and claims fell. The insurer will spend as much as
200 million euros on buybacks, or half the amount it got last
month from a settlement with ABN Amro Group NV. The buyback
announcement coincided with the end of a six-month lockup, which
barred BNP Paribas from selling the Ageas shares it got from the
conversion of Fortis Bank SA’s hybrid bonds.  “Especially U.K. and Belgian non-life results were
strong,”  Albert Ploegh , an analyst at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam
who recommends buying the shares, wrote in an investor note.
“Belgian life was weaker, explained by higher effective  tax
rate  and lower reinvestment yields.”  Available Cash  Ageas rose 5.2 percent to 1.734 euros at the close of
 trading  on Euronext Brussels, the highest value since March 20.
The shares have produced a  return  of 49 percent, including
reinvested dividends, for investors in the past 12 months.
That’s more than double the 18 percent return of the Stoxx
Insurance 600 Index in the same period, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The insurer said it held 1.5 billion euros of available
cash at the end of June after the settlements with Fortis Bank,
BNP Paribas and  ABN Amro  brought in almost 1.07 billion euros in
the first half.  Shareholders’ equity , excluding the value of a call option
on the BNP Paribas shares held by the Belgian government, rose
to 8.69 billion euros from 8.1 billion euros at the end of
March.  Unrealized gains on its sovereign bond holdings, which
account for 53 percent of the insurer’s investments, increased
by 293 million euros in the quarter to 1.25 billion euros at the
end of June, driven by gains in Belgian, Austrian and French
bonds. Paper losses on Portuguese debt also narrowed.  Infrastructure Loans  The insurer also said it agreed to buy as much as 2 billion
euros of infrastructure loans in the next two to three years in
a partnership with  Natixis (KN)  SA, seeking to restore investment
yields after selling most of its higher-yielding Italian and
Spanish government bonds.  “Given the large exposure to lower yielding sovereigns,
the de-risked balance sheet and strong capital position, the
decision to re-risk partly is understandable,” ING’s Ploegh
wrote.  The overall investment yield in the first half has shrunk
about 12 basis points from the same period a year earlier, Chief
Executive Officer Bart De Smet told analysts and investors on a
conference call.  Belgium’s AG Insurance SA is pricing life-insurance
contracts to get an investment margin of about 90 basis points,
he said. AG also started charging a management fee of 30 basis
points on funds under management for Belgian life inflows to
compensate for lower investment yields.  Ageas reduced the value of the BNP  call option  by an
additional 87 million euros in the quarter to 117 million euros
at the end of June. BNP Paribas shares are  trading  for less than
half of the 66.672 euro-a-share strike price of the option. The
insurer also took a 38 million-euro loss in the quarter on the
value of its 44.7 percent stake in Royal Park Investments SA,
the company set up in May 2009 to take over a pool of distressed
debt securities from Fortis Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  