-- AIG Doubles U.K. Exposure as Euro-Zone Risk Declines
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-08-06T04:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/aig-doubles-u-k-exposure-as-euro-zone-risk-declines.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer bailed out by the U.S. Treasury Department, more
than doubled its risk related to the U.K. government while
scaling back in Germany and  France .  AIG’s aggregate credit risk tied to the U.K. surged to
$3.42 billion as of June 30 from $1.39 billion three months
earlier, the insurer said in a quarterly filing. The figure for
Germany fell 16 percent to $1.38 billion, and French risk
dropped 11 percent to $1.01 billion.  The insurer is reshuffling its  portfolio  as it seeks to
boost returns with yields near a record low. AIG has retreated
from risk in nations that share the euro as a debt crisis in
 Greece  and rising borrowing costs from  Spain  to  Italy  threaten
the common currency. The U.K. is the largest European economy
with its own currency.  “They’re trying to reduce some of their euro exposure,”
said Paul Newsome an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP.
“They probably think that it’s a relative safe haven within the
greater European environment.”  Credit risk can involve fixed-maturity securities,
derivatives, equities, leases and other agreements, AIG said in
the Aug. 2 filing, which also lists ties to companies such as
banks. The U.S. government was AIG’s single largest credit
exposure, at 23 percent of total equity, and exposure to the
financial sector was $95.3 billion, or 90 percent of total
equity. Jim Ankner, a spokesman for AIG, declined to comment.  AIG’s largest sovereign risk after the U.S. was  Japan , at
$8.87 billion, mostly related to holdings of insurance
operations in the country, according to the filing. The firm
said it had no direct or guaranteed credit exposure to Greek or
Irish governments. Total euro zone exposure was $3.72 billion,
down from $4.12 billion at the end of the first quarter.  Greece Outlook  AIG has assigned staff from  Argentina  to advise their
counterparts in  Athens  as the insurer prepares for a possible
Greece exit from the euro,  Peter Hancock , who heads the
property-casualty unit, said in May.  MetLife Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian  has
said that AIG disregarded his hints to sell European debt from
peripheral countries before MetLife bought an AIG unit.  “I was sending smoke signals to my friends at AIG, ‘Please
sell the peripheral debt,’” Kandarian said in February. “I
couldn’t do much more than send smoke signals, and they chose
not to sell.”  U.K. gilts had returned 3.4 percent this year as of Aug. 3,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. That
compares with a gain of 2.3 percent for Treasuries, 3.3 percent
for German bunds and 3.4 percent for sovereign debt globally.
The pound has advanced about 5 percent against the euro this
year and less than 1 percent versus the dollar.  Credit Ratings  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed in July its AAA rating on the
U.K., saying that the government “remains committed to
implementing its fiscal program.” The ratings company
downgraded the U.S. by one level a year ago.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has pressed on
with his planned fiscal squeeze to help protect Britain’s credit
rating even after the economy slipped into a double-dip
recession. Gross domestic product fell 0.7 percent in the second
quarter, the biggest decline in more than three years.  Bond investors “have a declining number of options,”
Jason Brady, a managing director at Thornburg Investment
Management in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , which oversees $80 billion,
said Aug. 3 in a telephone interview. “The U.K. is doing the
right things. They are doing what people would like and they
have crappy growth as a result, but they have one of the more
solid balance sheets out there.”  U.K. Forecasts  Moody’s Investors Service has cut its growth forecasts for
the U.K. and said the government will face increased
difficulties in meeting its debt-reduction timetable. Moody’s
sees the U.K. economy growing 0.4 percent this year and 1.8
percent in 2013. The economy will return to trend growth of 2.5
percent, though this will take longer than previously expected,
Moody’s said.  The cost to protect against a default by the U.K. has
fallen this year. Credit-default swaps on the nation declined to
55.3 basis points as of Aug. 3, compared with 97.5 basis points
at the end of last year, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Swaps tied to  Germany  are quoted at about 68 basis points.
Contracts linked to the U.S. are quoted at 46 basis points and
France’s at 152 basis points, CMA prices show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomebrg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  