-- Akin Gump, Minter Ellison, WilmerHale: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-08-06T11:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/akin-gump-minter-ellison-wilmerhale-business-of-law.html
Recipients of the  American Bar
Association ’s pro bono publico  awards , which will be presented
today in Chicago, include the law firm of  Akin Gump  Strauss
Hauer & Feld LLP, Neal Minahan, a partner with McDermott Will &
Emery LLP and Amy Lorenz-Moser, a partner with Armstrong
Teasdale LLP.  Akin Gump is being recognized for devoting more than 67,000
hours to pro bono work last year, an average of 84 hours per
U.S. lawyer in 2011. The firm increased its pro bono hours by 50
percent since 2006, according to an ABA statement.  The increase coincides with the arrival in 2006, of Steven
H. Schulman, Akin Gump’s first full-time pro bono partner, who
previously led Latham Walkins LLP to an ABA award in 2003, while
he was counsel there and overseeing the firm’s pro bono program
while juggling his antitrust practice.  Schulman credits Akin Gump’s chairman, R. Bruce McLean with
strengthening the firm’s commitment to pro bono. Schulman says
the firm has focused on increasing participation across offices
and practice areas, often through immigration work such as
asylum claims or violence-against-women petitions for immigrants
facing domestic abuse.  The firm has also increased its transactional pro bono
opportunities by working with the Knowledge Is Power Program
(KIPP), a network of  charter schools .  “We have helped with bond financing, mergers when they
needed to merge schools together to have more operational
efficiencies, some litigation and compliance reviews or legal
audits, to make sure everything’s in order,” Schulman said in
an interview.  In addition, when client Wal-Mart asked the firm to help
them design the company’s pro bono program, the firm ended up
creating a legal-medical partnership at an Arkansas children’s
hospital to help meet sick children’s medical and legal needs,
which are often intertwined, Schulman said. The firm has
expanded to create such partnerships in Dallas and  New York .  “We’ve tried from the earliest stages to really inculcate
pro bono as a daily part of lawyers’ lives,” he said.  That’s also how McDermott’s Minahan, who has spent more
than 2,500 hours of pro bono work over eight years, views the
approach to juggling his paying and free work.  “I see it as part of my job, so it was part of my
practice,” Minahan said in an interview.  He started his pro bono work with the federal courts,
helping on prisoners’ rights cases, shortly after joining
McDermott in  Boston  as an associate in 2004. The experience gave
him valuable experience and professional development as well as
the opportunity to help others.  “The firm fully supported me throughout,” Minahan said.
He made partner this January.  Lorenz-Moser, based in St. Louis, was selected for her work
with domestic-violence victims at the Clemency Project, which
focuses on the injustices that occur in domestic violence-
influenced murder convictions, the ABA said.  Also receiving awards today are Howard Goffen of  Highland
Park , Illinois, who devotes 30 hours a week to pro bono matters
and the state  Supreme Court  in Rochester, New York, which
established a Policy Statement on Pro Bono Legal and Volunteer
Services, the first of its kind in New York.  “Pro bono work is a key component of our legal system, and
these good deeds help to fill the void left by devastating
budget cuts,” ABA president William (Bill) T. Robinson III said
in a statement. The awardees, he added, “are outstanding
examples of lawyer volunteers who make our communities stronger
by ensuring meaningful access to justice for thousands of
Americans.”  Moves  Nelson Mullins Hires Two Corporate Partners in Boston  Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP hired Juan
Marcelino, from  Greenberg Traurig  LLP, and James P. O’Hare, from
K&L Gates LLP, as partners in the Boston office, the firm said
in a statement.  Marcelino focuses on securities enforcement matters and
conducts internal investigations as well as crisis management
advice. He worked from 1993-2003 as the district administrator
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s Boston office,
the firm said.  O’Hare represents technology-based companies, their boards
of directors, and investors in the areas of general corporate
matters, mergers and acquisitions, dispute resolution, and
public and private financings. O’Hare also represents private
equity funds, including funds of funds, in their formation,
capital raising and portfolio investment activities.  Nelson Mullins has more than 430 attorneys and government
relations professionals with offices in Atlanta; Boston;
Nashville, Tennessee; Tallahassee, Florida;  West Virginia ;
Washington; North Carolina and South Carolina.  Baker Hostetler’s Adds Litigator to New York Office  Baker Hostetler LLP announced that Adam J. Schlatner,
formerly of Winston & Strawn LLP, joined the firm’s litigation
group as partner in its New York office.  Schlatner concentrates his practice on complex commercial
litigation, handling a variety of matters, including contract,
securities, labor and employment, shareholder, intellectual
property, product liability, antitrust and consumer fraud cases,
as well as corporate internal investigations  Baker Hostetler has more than 800 attorneys in the U.S.  Planning lawyer joins Lewis Silkin’s Real Estate Team  London  law firm  Lewis Silkin LLP announced that planning
specialist Judith Damerell has joined the firm as a partner to
head the planning team in the firm’s real estate and development
group. Damerell was previously at Eversheds LLP, where she was a
partner and head of planning for the London and Cambridge
offices, the firm said.  Damerell, who has been both in government and private
practice, has worked on high-profile London projects such as
London 2012, the Elephant and Castle Early Housing Sites and
University College London Hospital, the firm said.  Minter Ellison Hires CMS Cameron McKenna Partner in Hong Kong  Minter Ellison  announced that construction specialist Henry
Sherman has joined the firm in Hong Kong as a senior consultant.
Sherman was a partner of CMS Cameron McKenna LLP (and legacy
firm, McKenna & Co) in London and Hong Kong for more than 25
years, the firm said.  “Henry has 35 years working in Europe,  Asia  and
internationally. He further enhances our specialist construction
capabilities in Greater China, particularly in the key areas of
dispute resolution, arbitration and ADR,” the head of Minter
Ellison’s Asian construction, engineering and infrastructure
practice, Steven Yip, said in a statement.  Bank of America Assistant General Counsel Joins Reed Smith  Former Bank of America data security and technology
attorney Timothy J. Nagle joins  Reed Smith  LLP as counsel in the
global data security, privacy and management practice in the
firm’s Washington office.  Nagle was assistant general counsel at Bank of America,
where he advised the chief information security officer and
business units such as online banking,  credit card  issuing, and
corporate banking on matters related to network security,
procurement, background screening, privacy and business
continuity.  “Tim has spent his career addressing the legal issues
surrounding technology in various contexts,” said Mark S. Melodia, co-leader of Reed Smith’s global data security, privacy
and management practice. “He brings Reed Smith important and
unique expertise in the pulse issue of data security, where
commercial security concerns increasingly intersect with issues
of national security.  His experience will be ‘‘an important resource for our
clients in finance, health care, energy, defense and other key
industry sectors,’’ Melodia said.  Reed Smith has nearly 1,700 lawyers in 23 offices
throughout the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Polsinelli Shughart Adds Trio of IP Litigators in New York  Polsinelli Shughart PC hired Tedd Van Buskirk, formerly of
K&L Gates LLP, Pamela Fekete, in-house at Cambridge Biolabs LLC,
and Dillon Kim, formerly of Hogan Lovells LLP, as shareholders
in New York.  The three focus predominantly on patent litigation arising
under the Hatch-Waxman Act and related regulatory, antitrust,
and ANDA counseling work. Their clients include pharmaceutical,
medical device, biotech, and other life sciences companies.  Polsinelli Shughart has more than 600 attorneys, with 11
offices.  Litigation  TD Bank, Greenberg Traurig Sanctioned Over Document Handling  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  was sanctioned by a federal judge in
Miami for ‘‘willfully’’ concealing evidence relevant to a trial
over whether it aided a $1.2 billion  Ponzi scheme  by disbarred
attorney Scott Rothstein.  U.S. District Judge Marcia Cooke also sanctioned Greenberg
Traurig LLP, a law firm for the bank, for ‘‘negligently’’
failing to turn over documents to Coquina Investments, which won
a $67 million verdict against the bank on Jan. 18. Coquina
claimed after that verdict that TD Bank, Canada’s second-largest
lender, and Greenberg Traurig withheld documents they were
required to disclose.  Cooke said the bank and the law firm abused the exchange of
evidence known as discovery, which was unfair to  Corpus Christi ,
Texas-based Coquina. She ordered TD Bank and Greenberg Traurig
to pay Coquina’s attorney’s fees on its sanctions motion, and
made other factual findings against the bank.  ‘‘The discovery violations in this case resulted in
Coquina’s diminished ability to prove that TD Bank’s actions
were unreasonable and it had knowledge of fraud,” Cooke said
Aug. 3 in a 30-page ruling. “This sanction serves to compensate
Coquina for the added expense caused by Greenberg Traurig’s and
TD Bank’s discovery violations and abusive conduct.”  Rothstein, co-founder of the now-defunct Fort Lauderdale-
based firm Rothstein, Rosenfeldt & Adler, is serving a 50-year
sentence for conspiracy to commit fraud. Investigators say his
$1.2 billion Ponzi scheme is the largest in Florida history.
Rothstein sold investors stakes in sex- and employment-
discrimination cases that turned out to be non-existent.  Cooke said she found a “pattern of discovery abuses
before, during, and after trial.” She declined to sanction
individual lawyers at Greenberg Traurig whose “handling of this
case left much to be desired.” Their errors in producing
documents were “simply incredible,” yet they didn’t act
willfully or in bad faith and don’t deserve sanctions, Cooke
ruled.  “TD Bank respectfully disagrees with the court’s order and
will appeal it and the underlying jury verdict at the
appropriate time,” Maria Leung, a spokeswoman for Toronto-based
TD Bank, said in an e-mail. “We do not believe that the record
before the court supports the findings that were made regarding
willfulness or the sanctions that were imposed.”  Leung said the bank would continue to defend itself.  “We will comply with Judge Cooke’s ruling,” Lourdes Brezo Martinez, a Greenberg Traurig spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
“We regret the deficiencies that gave rise to this order.”  Cooke, who held several days of hearings on Coquina’s
motion, said Greenberg Traurig had more than 200 attorneys
involved in the case, with separate teams handling banking
issues, document production and pretrial and trial practice. TD
Bank hired another firm as well, “but the firms did not have
any mutual coordination,” the judge said.  The case is Coquina Investments v. Rothstein, 10-cv-60786,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  For more, click here.  Samsung Defeats Apple Bid for Sanction in iPhone Patent Case  Samsung (005930)  Electronics Co. defeated a bid for judicial
sanctions against it by  Apple (AAPL)  Inc. related to evidence in the
iPhone patent dispute now on trial in San Jose federal court in
California.  The Korean manufacturer won dismissal of Apple’s request
for a judge to punish its lawyer’s public disclosure of evidence
excluded from trial. The judge said she would poll the jurors
individually on the matter. While at least one of the jurors
said they had seen headlines on the Internet about the
disclosure, the judge said the jury can continue in place.  Apple, in an Aug. 1 filing with U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh, said a July 31 statement authorized by Samsung’s lawyer was
designed to convey to jurors, through the media, arguments
contesting Apple’s central allegations that Samsung copied the
iPhone and iPad. The move was “bad faith litigation
misconduct” meant to prejudice the jury, Apple said.  “Apple requests that the court issue sanctions granting
judgment that Apple’s asserted phone-design patent claims are
valid and infringed by Samsung,” according to the filing signed
by lawyer William Lee, Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr
LLP.  Apple had said that if Koh doesn’t decide the case in its
favor outright, she should tell the jury that Samsung engaged in
“serious misconduct.” Apple proposed that Koh tell jurors
Samsung copied the designs and features from Apple products, and
preclude Samsung from any further mention of evidence regarding
a pre-existing design.  Samsung, in an Aug. 2 filing, said Apple’s request should
be rejected because it’s “frivolous at every level,” and
because Samsung’s statement was protected free speech.  The evidence fight between the companies was being
conducted outside the view of the jury, which on July 31 heard
opening arguments in the case.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, seeks $2.5 billion
for its claims that Samsung infringed patents covering designs
and technology for mobile devices. Samsung countersued and will
present claims that Apple is infringing two patents covering
mobile-technology standards and three utility patents.  John Quinn , of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, the
Samsung attorney who approved the release of the information,
said in his own statement to the court that it was done in
response to a request from members of the media and that the
information was already in public court filings made by Samsung
or Apple and wasn’t intended to prejudice the jury.  Koh on July 31 barred Samsung from presenting images of a
smartphone that Samsung claimed it was developing in 2006, the
year before Apple introduced the iPhone. Koh rejected Samsung’s
request to reconsider her ruling for what she said was at least
the third time, standing by her earlier decision that the
evidence wasn’t “timely disclosed” in Samsung’s arguments
pertaining to patent infringement.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  