-- AngloGold Open to Talks on Sadiola, Sees Potential With Tarkwa
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-08-06T12:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/anglogold-open-to-talks-on-sadiola-sees-potential-with-tarkwa.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the third-
largest producer of the metal, would be interested in buying
 IAMGOLD (IAG)  Corp.’s 41 percent stake in  Mali ’s Sadiola mine “for
the right price,” Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said.  AngloGold, which already owns 41 percent of Sadiola, and
IAMGOLD agreed a year ago to maintain the mine’s current
ownership structure. The government holds the remaining stake.  “It remains one of those things where, unless one of us
takes it on a more substantive basis, you have to question
whether it’s the right thing for the people not to have a
dedicated leader,” Cutifani said today in an interview in
Johannesburg. “So we’re open to that conversation.”  Sadiola is in the northwest of Mali, which ranks alongside
Tanzania as Africa’s third-biggest gold producer. In June,
AngloGold signed a fiscal stability agreement with Mali’s
government over the mine where it’s considering an expansion.  AngloGold may have two or three assets for sale at the
moment, Cutifani told investors in Johannesburg today after
reporting second-quarter results. He overseas 20 operations in
10 countries on four continents.  AngloGold is open to exploring possibilities at its
Iduapriem mine in Ghana, which is close to  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ’s
Tarkwa mine, Cutifani said in the interview. It makes sense to
“do something sensible” with large adjacent assets, he said.  “Iduapriem and Tarkwa, for example, stand side by side, so
we’re always open to those sorts of conversations that make
sense for both groups,” he said. “There are no active
conversations.”  AngloGold may decide in about 12 months to undertake
further studies into the Navachab mine in  Namibia , where local
ownership requirements are being discussed, Cutifani said. There
may be potential to double its capacity to about 200,000 ounces,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  