-- AngloGold to Boost 3rd-Quarter Output to Mitigate Cost Rise
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-08-06T16:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/anglogold-to-boost-3rd-quarter-output-to-mitigate-cost-rise-2-.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the third-
largest producer of the metal, is looking to boost output in the
three months through September to mitigate an expected increase
in costs, mainly in  South Africa .  Power-tariff advances in the continent’s biggest economy
and wages are “hitting the numbers,” Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Cutifani  told reporters today on a call from Johannesburg,
where the company is based. “We are hoping to do better on the
production side to partially offset that.”  Costs may rise to as much as $865 an ounce in the third
quarter from $801 in the second, the company said. Second-
quarter output was 1.073 million ounces and third-quarter
production may be from 1.07 million to 1.1 million ounces, it
company said.  The company and rivals including  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  and
Harmony Gold Mining Co. are trying to boost output to cope with
the effects of rising costs and to benefit from prices that have
increased for 11 straight years.  The metal may trade through $1,700 an ounce in the second
half, Cutifani told reporters.  “The winds are all starting to turn favorable for gold,”
he said. “The Europeans still haven’t come to grips with the
challenges they’re facing. The U.S. is coming into an election
period -- certainly some uncertainty. In  China , demand still
looks strong.”  Profit Drop  Gold increased 0.7 percent to $1,614 an ounce by 4:51 p.m.
in  London . The metal has gained 3 percent this year.  Earnings excluding one-time items fell 41 percent in the
second quarter from the first as expenditures including
exploration increased and a higher tax charge was recorded.
Profit on that basis declined to $253 million, or 65 cents a
share, from $429 million, or $1.11, in the prior quarter, the
company said today in a statement. A $90 million first-quarter
tax credit wasn’t repeated.  AngloGold climbed 1.5 percent to 281.76 rand by the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg, the second-biggest gain in the five-
member  FTSE/JSE Africa Gold Mining (JGOLD)  Index today.  “AngloGold is our preferred pick in the South African gold
sector,” Citigroup Inc. analysts Johann Steyn and Craig Irwin
said in an e-mailed note today. “We view its existing
operations and project pipeline as superior to that of its
peers, and also think it has less execution risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  