-- Apple to Drop Google’s YouTube From New Version of IOS
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-07T13:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/apple-says-google-s-youtube-won-t-be-in-next-version-of-ios.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube
won’t be included in the next version of the software used in
the iPhone and iPad, the latest evidence of escalating
competition between the two companies.  Apple has featured YouTube as a core application since the
iPhone debuted in 2007. As Google has pushed into the market
with its Android software -- now the most-used smartphone
operating system -- the relationship between the two companies
frayed. Apple also plans to replace Google’s maps application
with its own in the next iOS release.  “Their two ecosystems are pulling away from each other,”
 Carl Howe , an analyst at  Yankee Group , said yesterday. “This is
two companies agreeing they just don’t want to work together
anymore.”  Users will see the effects when the next version of Apple’s
mobile software, called iOS 6, is rolled out later this year. A
license expired that let the company include YouTube,  Trudy Muller , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based Apple,
said yesterday. As a result, the YouTube app won’t come pre-
installed on future iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch releases or if a
user downloads iOS 6 to existing devices.  Customers who want to view YouTube on an iPhone will have
to access it through Apple’s Safari Web browser or an
application downloadable from the  App Store .  Apple is scheduled to unveil the next iPhone -- which is
expected to feature the latest iOS version -- at an event on
Sept. 12, two people familiar with the plans said last month.  Standoff  “We are working with Apple to ensure we have the best
possible YouTube experience for iOS users,” Chris Dale,
spokesman for YouTube, said yesterday.  Before the current rivalry, Apple and Google had a closer
relationship when  Eric Schmidt , Google’s chairman, sat on
Apple’s board. He resigned from that position in 2009, as Google
stepped up its efforts to deploy software for mobile phones and
computers that would compete with Apple products.  Apple has sued Google’s main Android partner, Samsung
Electronics Co., for $2.5 billion in federal court in
California, claiming that Samsung infringed patents covering
designs and technology for mobile devices. Samsung, based in
Suwon, South Korea, countersued and will present claims that
Apple is infringing patents covering mobile-technology
standards.  Google’s shares fell 0.6 percent to $639.21 at 9:52 a.m. in
New York, while Apple declined 0.4 percent to $620.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  