-- Apple Product Design Witness Says Samsung Infringed Patents
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-06T20:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/apple-calls-product-design-witness-at-samsung-patent-trial-1-.html
An industrial designer testifying for
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in its multibillion-dollar trial against  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  said the South Korean company copied patented
technology for smartphones and tablet computers.  Apple today called as a witness Peter Bressler, the founder
and chairman of Philadelphia-based BresslerGroup and an inventor
on 70 design and utility patents who teaches product design at
the  University of Pennsylvania .  “There are a number of Samsung phones and two Samsung
tablets that are substantially the same as those” described by
Apple patents, he told the jury in federal court in  San Jose ,
 California .  Apple and Samsung are the world’s largest makers of the
high-end handheld devices that blend the functionality of a
phone and a computer. The trial is the first before a U.S. jury
in a battle being waged on four continents for dominance in a
smartphone market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1
billion. Each company is trying to convince jurors that its
rival infringed patents covering designs and technology.  Bressler is an expert in “user research, human factors
application, manufacturing processes and innovative criteria
conflict resolution,” according to his website. His testimony
may continue to lay the groundwork for Apple’s infringement
claims, which Apple started last week with  Scott Forstall , the
company’s senior vice president in charge of iPhone and iPad
software. He gave jurors the first detailed testimony about one
of the patents at issue.  $2.5 Billion  Apple seeks $2.5 billion for its claims that Samsung
infringed patents. Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea ,
countersued and will present claims that Apple is infringing two
patents covering mobile-technology standards and three utility
patents. Apple, based in Cupertino, California, also wants to
make permanent a preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a
Samsung tablet, and extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  Bressler said he had studied different versions of the
iPhone in preparation for his testimony. Shown diagrams from
Apple’s patents and actual phones based on them, he described
the “rectangular proportion” of the diagrams as providing “a
specific impression or design.”  The phones “embody the design of the patent,” he said in
response to questions from Apple’s lawyer, Rachel Krevans.  Bressler said he performed an infringement analysis of the
Galaxy S 4G phone and found that its “flat, uninterrupted
surface” and “rectangular proportions” infringe Apple’s
patents. He said he arrived at the same conclusion after doing a
similar analysis for more than 10 other Samsung phones and a
Samsung tablet.  Court Order  Before trial, Apple won a court order from U.S. District
Judge Lucy Koh temporarily blocking U.S. sales of Samsung’s
Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet, a ruling that was upheld by the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington .  Bressler said the “prior art,” or earlier inventions,
that Samsung argues are in patents preceding Apple’s describe a
different product. Those patents Samsung is relying on to defend
against the infringement claims describe front screens that are
convex, not flat, he said.  Earlier today the jury heard from Samsung Vice President
Justin Denison, the company’s chief strategy officer for Samsung
Telecommunications America, who said he finds “offensive”
claims his company is copying Apple.  Samsung is proud of the “products it produces, and all the
hard work that goes into bringing those products to market,”
Denison said. Samsung “does an excellent job of remaining very
humble,” with its employees possessing a “self-critical”
attitude that drives “change, innovation,” Denison said under
questioning from Samsung’s lawyer,  John Quinn .  Cross-Examination  Dennison was asked under cross-examination by another Apple
lawyer, William Lee, about a Samsung employee’s e-mail saying
the company was experiencing a “crisis of design” due to
competition from Apple’s iPhone, that the comparison between
Apple’s phone and Samsung’s is that of “heaven and earth,” and
that the time “to change our methods has arrived.”  The expression is “typical hyperbole” found at Samsung,
the real message being to “encourage people to work harder and
motivate them,” Denison said.  Denison testified that Samsung introduces as many as 50 new
phones each year and in the U.S., sells as many as 100 different
phones at any given time. He said Samsung sells different
versions of its Galaxy phones to different carriers, because the
companies “want to differentiate their portfolio” and “ask
for some element of uniqueness.”  Smartphone Features  Denison also said Samsung added several features to its
smartphones that were later adopted by Apple, including voice-
command technology and higher-resolution screens. He said he
wasn’t offended by Apple’s use of those features.  The company’s Galaxy phones have become more successful
over time, as screens for Samsung smartphones have become larger
and the company added features, he said.  Apple and Samsung are battling for leadership in the global
smartphone market. As companies including  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIM)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  face mounting losses, the two rivals are
garnering a larger piece of the market’s profits. According to a
report released today by Michael Walkey, a technology-industry
analyst with Canaccord Genuity, Apple and Samsung have captured
108 percent of handset industry profits because other
competitors are losing money.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  