-- Aquino Defeats Church, Pacquiao Over Condom Law: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e ,   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-08-07T04:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/aquino-defeats-church-pacquiao-over-condom-law-southeast-asia.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
defeated a former world boxing champion and leaders of the
Catholic Church yesterday as lawmakers chose to advance 14-year-
old legislation to fund free family planning.  The  House of Representatives  voted to end debate on a bill
that would provide free contraceptives to stem unwanted
pregnancies in a country where  population growth  is twice the
Asian average. Bishops and world welterweight boxing champion
 Manny Pacquiao  led criticism of the proposal on religious
grounds, testing the political clout of church leaders who
helped Aquino’s late mother rise to power in 1986.  “This has been a longstanding battle for a Philippine
church which has, for most of its history, been dominated by the
more conservative faction among its clerics,” said  Julius
Bautista , a visiting fellow at the  National University  of
 Singapore . “The passage of this bill would be the latest
setback in a larger political landscape in which the church is
losing the ability to influence policy.”  Endorsement of the bill, which still requires a final House
vote and Senate approval, would mark a victory for Aquino, whose
approval rating among the Philippines’s  104 million people 
remains at about 70 percent after two years in office. The
 United Nations  has said it will help reduce poverty among the 20
million people living in slum conditions as the country becomes
wealthier with annual economic growth of more than 5 percent.  ‘Social Risks’  While population control measures such as  China ’s one-child
policy may have adverse economic effects, providing  birth
control  to poor citizens is a normal practice, according to Chua Hak Bin, an economist in Singapore at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. The Philippines’s labor force is set to “grow
dramatically” over the next decade as the nation undergoes the
biggest population boom among Asian countries, he said.  “It will demand that the government cope and generate
sufficient jobs to manage this huge surge in the numbers,” Chua
said. “History suggests that there are social risks if the
government isn’t able to provide sufficient employment.”  The nation’s stock market and currency are among  Asia ’s
best performers this year, with the Philippine Stock Exchange
Index surging 21 percent and the peso gaining 4.8 percent. The
central bank last month cut  interest rates  a third time this
year to a record low, as easing inflation gives policy makers
scope to spur growth that led  Southeast Asia  at 6.4 percent in
the first quarter. The nation’s financial markets are shut today
because of flooding in  Manila  and nearby provinces.  ‘Moving Forward’  The 23-page  bill , which has been introduced and blocked
repeatedly since 1998, calls for mandatory sex education and
requires the government to pay for contraceptives and family
planning services for poor people. Lawmakers in the 284-member
 House of Representatives  yesterday agreed to end debate on the
proposal and proceed to a mandatory amendment period before it
heads to an up-or-down vote.  “It has never gone this far,” House Majority leader
Neptali Gonzales told reporters yesterday. “Even though it’s as
slow as a tortoise, it’s moving forward.”  A similar bill would need to be approved by the 23-member
Senate and reconciled with the lower-house version before Aquino
can sign it into law. The Senate will probably vote on the
proposal if it’s approved in the House, Manuel Mamba, Aquino’s
liaison officer to Congress, said before yesterday’s meeting of
the lower house.  ‘Pre-emptive Abortion’  About 9,000 nuns, priests and churchgoers wearing red
clothes rallied to oppose the bill three days ago amid steady
rainfall in Manila. The protesters described themselves as pro-
life and distributed pamphlets that also denounced divorce and
same-sex marriage in addition to the bill.  Angelo Arellano, a 20-year-old seminarian who plans to
become a priest in about eight years, attended the rally with 50
of his classmates from the northern province of Tarlac, about a
three-hour drive from Manila.  “If you are a parent, will you kill your child?” Arellano
said. “That’s what the RH Bill does. The Lord said go forth and
multiply. Why do they want to control the spread of mankind?”  Mike Velarde, leader of the Catholic group El Shaddai whose
son is a member of Congress, said the bill was tantamount to
“pre-emptive abortion.” The organization says it has six
million members in the  Philippines  and can deliver half as many
votes during elections.  “The objective of this bill is to kill the Filipino
race,” Velarde said in a speech at the rally. “This culture of
death is foreign to us. It is against the word of God.”  Fertility Rate  Filipino women give birth about 3.1 times during their
lifetime, compared with an average fertility rate of 2.1 in Asia
and the Pacific, according to the  United Nations Population
Fund . The population is growing at 1.7 percent a year, compared
with 0.9 throughout the rest of Asia, UN data show.  While the wealthiest 20 percent of women in the Philippines
have an average of 1.9 babies, the poorest fifth deliver 5.2,
according to the 2008  National Demographic and Health Survey . In
the bottom income-bracket, 44.1 percent of women aged 15 to 24
had begun childbearing, according to the survey, more than three
times the number of the wealthiest 20 percent in the same age
range.  Aquino, who has said he’s prepared to be excommunicated
from the church over the bill, is confident Congress will make
it a law, according to spokesman Ricky Carandang. A vote to
continue the debate would have killed its chances of passing
this year, according to Prospero de Vera, a political science
professor at the University of the Philippines in Manila.  Arroyo Opposition  “The only possible backlash is if the church campaigns
against the President’s candidates next year,” De Vera said.
“But that is not practical for the Church” because Aquino has
supporters that are both for and against the bill, he said.  Aquino may also have benefited from former President  Gloria
Arroyo ’s opposition to the bill, according to Earl Parreno, a
political analyst from the Manila-based Institute for Political
and Electoral Reform. Seven legislators linked to Arroyo last
week withdrew support for the measure, the Manila Bulletin
 reported , citing House minority leader Danilo Suarez.  Aquino’s administration has targeted Arroyo since he took
office, including filing charges against her for election fraud.
Freed on bail last month, Arroyo showed up for the vote
yesterday in a red suit, distinguishing herself from proponents
of the bill donning purple. Pacquiao, who wore a red tie to the
vote, declined to be interviewed.  “Aquino remains popular and he could use public disfavor
of Arroyo to rally support and speed up the bill’s approval,”
Parreno said. “Politics, not discontent with the substance of
the measure, appears to be hindering its passage, and this could
actually help the administration.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  