-- L&T Turns to Roads as Power Plants Stall: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-08-07T11:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/larsen-turns-to-highways-as-power-plants-stall-corporate-india.html
Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , Asia’s largest
construction company by market value, is betting on road and
rail orders in India and overseas to help maintain growth as
power generation projects stall in the South Asian nation.  The company sees an “opportunity” of as much as $35
billion to build highways, rail networks and small airports in
the next two years, Chief Financial Officer R. Shankar Raman
said. Larsen added 65 billion rupees ($1.2 billion) of road
construction contracts in the first quarter of the year that
started April 1, he said.  “Road is one area of opportunity in all this compressed
investment environment,” Raman said in an interview yesterday
in Mumbai where the company is based. Contracts in the “third
and fourth quarter are expected to pick up.”  Lack of coal and gas supplies to fire electricity plants
have hindered expansion plans of utilities in  Asia ’s third-
largest economy, prompting Larsen to increase focus on
infrastructure projects. The company also expects more orders to
build transmission networks in India after the world’s biggest
blackout last week knocked out power for half of its population.  “Larsen is in a better position than its peers because of
its diversified business portfolio,” said Dhananjay Mishra, an
analyst at Mumbai-based Sushil Finance Consultants Ltd., who
recommends buying the stock. “Even in a depressed investment
climate, it can still find orders to grow.”  The company’s  stock  has gained 42 percent this year, making
it the best performer in the benchmark BSE India  Sensitive
Index. (SENSEX)  The shares rose 0.8 percent to 1,417.7 rupees at close of
trading in Mumbai.  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , India’s
biggest power equipment maker, dropped 2.8 percent this year.  Danish Engineers  Larsen, set up in 1938 by two Danish engineers, may report
an 11 percent increase in profit to 52 billion rupees in the
year ending March 31, according to a median  estimate  of 17
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Bharat Heavy’s net income may
drop 12 percent in the period, according to 16 analysts.  Larsen is either building or operating 19 road and bridge
projects as of the fiscal first quarter, according to a
 presentation  on its website. The company “doesn’t see
traction” for its services from the steel, cement and food
processing industries, Raman said.  The builder is targeting highway projects in India as Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  seeks to step up investments in
expressways to remove bottlenecks that choke economic growth.
The government aims to award contracts to build 9,500 kilometers
(5,900 miles) of roads in the year that started on April 1.  Power Outages  At the same time, coal-supply shortages have forced some of
the nation’s utilities to halt expansion.  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) , India’s
biggest electricity producer, said in June it scaled back plans
to add coal-fired capacity by 42 percent because of the fuel’s
scarcity. The country depends on coal to generate more than half
of its electricity.  Power stations operate below their capacity as supply from
 Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s biggest producer, lags behind
demand. That has contributed to frequent power outages,
sometimes lasting as long as 10 hours, in the world’s second-
most populous nation. Electricity shortages shave about 1.2
percentage points off the nation’s annual growth, according to
the Planning Commission.  Two days of blackouts that left about 640 million people
without power last week prompted  India ’s government to pledge
investment in improving the nation’s grid. That may help Larsen
add construction contracts, Raman said.  Overseas Sales  Orders from companies in the power sector accounted for 21
percent of contracts Larsen won in the first quarter. In
comparison, projects such as roads, bridges and metro rail
networks contributed 65 percent. The  company  added 196 billion
rupees of total orders in the period, up 21 percent from a year
earlier, according to the presentation on its website.  Profit in the first quarter increased 16 percent, helped by
a 26 percent gain in sales, the company said July 23. Operating
profit fell 9 percent, the first drop in at least five years,
after costs of raw materials and components surged.  Engineering and construction  business accounted for 89
percent of Larsen’s sales in the period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company said it had an order backlog
of 1.53 trillion rupees as of June 30.  International sales  contributed 17 percent of total revenue
in the quarter. Larsen aims to earn as much as 25 percent of
sales from overseas this year, Chairman A.M. Naik said in May,
as India’s economic expansion slows. The nation’s gross domestic
product expanded 5.3 percent, the least in almost a decade, in
the three months through March.  “Projects have got deferred because business fundamentals
have changed,” Raman said. “There is no solution but to invest
out of our troubles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  