-- Stocks Rise on ECB Speculation as Spain, Italy Notes Gain
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-06T20:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/asian-stocks-jump-as-yen-weakens-on-u-s-payrolls-oil-retreats.html
Stocks rose and the euro climbed as
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government backed the  European
Central Bank ’s bond-buying plan. Spanish and Italian notes
increased, while commodities reversed declines.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,394.29 at 4 p.m. in New York, and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
added 0.5 percent. The German 10-year bund yield slid three
basis points, while the Spanish two-year rate lost 46 basis
points. The euro climbed 0.1 percent to $1.2396, erasing earlier
losses. Knight Capital Group Inc., the firm driven to the brink
of bankruptcy by trading losses last week, tumbled 24 percent.
Crude oil increased 0.9 percent to a two-week high.  Merkel’s government backed the ECB’s bond-buying plan
announced last week, her deputy spokesman Georg Streiter said
today. Spanish and Italian two-year notes climbed for a fourth
day amid speculation the ECB will buy the securities in an
attempt to calm euro-region turmoil. Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  said the euro area is showing signs of
“psychological dissolution,” according to an interview in Der
Spiegel magazine.  “There’s better general feeling,”  Richard Sichel , who
oversees $1.6 billion as chief investment officer at
Philadelphia Trust Co., said in a phone interview. “We’ve had a
good earnings season and better-than-estimated data last week.
The weekend didn’t bring any painful news out of Europe and
there are expectations the ECB will buy bonds.”  The  S&P 500  advanced after closing last week at a three-
month high as a report showed payrolls climbed more than
forecast in July. Raw-material and technology shares gained the
most today among 10 groups in the S&P 500.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  jumped at least 1.5
percent to pace advances among the largest U.S. companies.  Best
Buy Co. (BBY)  gained 13 percent as founder Richard Schulze offered to
take the electronics retailer private.  Earnings Season  About 73 percent of the S&P 500  companies  which reported
second-quarter results have beaten analysts’ earnings estimates
even as 59 percent missed sales projections, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Knight Capital (KCG)  tumbled after the market maker agreed to a
$400 million cash infusion through the sale of convertible
preferred stock. Getco LLC, Blackstone Group LP, Stifel Nicolaus
& Co., TD Ameritrade Holding Corp., Stephens Inc. and Jefferies
Group Inc. are investing, according to a statement from the
company.  Computer Breakdown  Knight, whose market-making unit executes about 10 percent
of U.S. shares, has been fighting for survival since a computer
breakdown spewed orders through stock exchanges Aug. 1 and led
to a $440 million loss.  About three shares rose for every one that fell in the
 Stoxx 600. (SXXP)  European stocks rose for a ninth week in the five
days ended Aug. 3, extending the longest winning streak since
January 2006. The Stoxx 600 climbed 13 percent over the period
as policy makers eased repayment terms for Spanish banks and
optimism grew central banks will announce stimulus measures.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  rose 5.2 percent today, the
most in more than two months, after the second-biggest luxury
goods company said it expects fiscal first-half profit to rise
20 percent to 40 percent as currency shifts boost revenue.
PostNL NV tumbled 5.2 percent after the Dutch postal company
forecast full-year earnings at the lower end of a previously
announced range.  ‘Short End’  The yield spread between Spain’s 10-year bonds and two-year
notes widened to as much as 343 basis points, the most since
Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1993. ECB President  Mario
Draghi  said on Aug. 2 any bond purchases undertaken by the bank
in unison with the European Financial Stability Facility would
focus “on the short end of the yield curve.”  The two-year  German note yield  was at minus 0.060 percent,
below zero for the 22nd consecutive day. The similar-maturity
Italian rate declined nine basis points, with the Portuguese
yield sliding 120 basis points.  The cost of insuring against default on sovereign debt
fell, with the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of
credit-default swaps on 15 governments decreasing two basis
points to 247.  “It’s fair to say that many sources of volatility and risk
remain over the next couple of months but if we can get to a
stage where the ECB aggressively buys bonds then it will give
Europe more time to try to find a growth miracle,”  Jim Reid , a
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London, wrote in a report.  Treasury Auctions  Treasuries were little changed before the U.S. auctions $32
billion in three-year debt tomorrow, the first of three sales of
notes and bonds this week totaling $72 billion.      The
benchmark 10-year yield declined one basis point to 1.56
percent.  The dollar fell against most of its major counterparts as
risk appetite increased. The U.S. currency lost 0.3 percent to
78.22 yen. The euro pared its decline against the yen, slipping
0.2 percent, after rising 0.5 percent last week. Sterling
declined against 14 of its 16 most-traded peers after U.K. data
showed weakness in the housing market.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities rose 0.4 percent,
erasing a decline of as much as 0.7 percent. Cotton, nickel and
aluminum advanced while soybeans tumbled 2.7 percent. Oil
rallied 0.9 percent to $92.20 a barrel, reversing an earlier
loss of 0.8 percent. Natural gas jumped 1.1 percent amid
speculation a supply glut will continue to shrink in coming
weeks because of hot weather and demand from power generators.  Gold Gains  Gold futures gained for a second session, adding 0.4
percent, on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will take additional
measures to support economic growth, spurring demand for the
metal as an inflation hedge. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
today in Cambridge, Massachusetts, that gauges of the U.S.
economy’s strength may fail to measure the suffering of
individual citizens.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 1.5 percent to its
highest level since May 11. South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  index surged 2
percent and the  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  rose 1 percent, taking its
two-day rally to 2.1 percent, the best since May. China plans to
let workers choose for as much as 30 percent of their wages to
be paid in the shares of their publicly-traded employers.
Benchmark gauges in Russia, India, Poland and the  Czech Republic 
gained more than 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  