-- Asia Buyers Snap Up Australian Hotels as Mining Boom Fills Rooms
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-08-06T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/asia-buyers-snap-up-australian-hotels-as-mining-boom-fills-rooms.html
Sales of Australian hotels to
offshore buyers set a record in the first half as Asian
companies including  Shangri-La Asia Ltd. (69) ,  Starhill Real Estate
Investment Trust (STRH)  and  Langham Hospitality Group  were lured by
rising occupancy and room rates.  Companies outside of Australia accounted for A$990 million
($1 billion) of the purchases, or 90 percent, through June 30,
according to Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. That’s the highest first-
half volume and percentage of the total since the Chicago-based
broker began compiling comparable data in 2002.  Hong Kong  and
Malaysian companies were the most active buyers.  The biggest resources boom in a century is boosting mining-
related business travel to the biggest cities, where companies
such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  are based, while the Chinese are
leading a pickup in tourism. Investors are preferring to buy
rather than build as construction costs rise, said Craig
Collins, chief executive officer for Australasia at Jones Lang
LaSalle’s hotel unit. That’s limiting the supply of new rooms.  “There are generally very few opportunities to gain a
foothold in capital-city markets, so when they come up, the
buyers pounce,” Collins said in an interview in Sydney. “When
the cost to build is higher than the cost to buy, it’s a good
barometer for the buyers.”  Sellers include companies seeking to divest noncore assets,
such as  Mirvac Group (MGR) , which in December agreed to offload its
hotel business, and real estate funds exiting properties as
their investment terms end, including Colonial First State
Global Asset Management.  Shangri-La Purchases  Shangri-La on June 22 said it bought the five-star Shangri-
La Hotel in Sydney for A$330 million, following the same week
with the acquisition of the  Holiday Inn  in Brisbane for A$48
million. The purchase of the 563-room Sydney property
overlooking the city’s Opera House and Harbour Bridge gave the
Hong Kong-based group ownership of the hotel it already managed
for the Government of Singapore Investment Corp.  The 191-room central Brisbane hotel, which Shangri-La will
begin operating this month, allows it to introduce the four-star
Traders Hotel brand in  Australia , it said on June 27.  Shangri-La, which already holds a majority stake in the
Marina Hotel in Cairns in northern Queensland, will expand in
Australia following the Sydney and Brisbane purchases,
spokeswoman Vivienne Gan said in an e-mailed response to
questions. The nation is the company’s third-largest market
following  China  and the U.S., she said.  “We’re very optimistic about the hotel industry in
Australia,” said Gan. “The economy is strong, and there is an
upward trend in domestic and international travel.”  Overseas Visitors  The number of overseas visitors to Australia rose a
seasonally-adjusted 8.1 percent in June to 515,100 from a year
ago, statistics bureau data show. Visitors from China and  Japan 
were among groups leading the increase in the six months to June
30, according to  Tourism Australia .  The proportion of visitors from China may rise to 13.3
percent of tourist arrivals by 2014 from 6.4 percent in 2011,
according to a  report  in May by Deloitte Access Economics.  Australia, which avoided the 2009 global contraction after
the government boosted spending and the central bank lowered
interest rates, is in its third decade without a recession.
 Reserve Bank of Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered the
benchmark  interest rate  by a combined 75 basis points in May and
June to help insulate the economy from the  European debt crisis ,
before pausing in July citing stronger domestic growth.  The nation expanded at the fastest annual pace in the
developed world in the first quarter and has some A$500 billion
of resource investment projects in the pipeline, according to
government estimates.  Rising Occupancies  Sydney had the highest hotel occupancy rate among major
Australian cities this year through June 30, at 84.5 percent,
according to Jones Lang LaSalle. Melbourne and Perth had
occupancy rates of 80.4 percent, with Brisbane at 78.5 percent.  The rates compared with 80 percent in  New York , 78.9
percent in  London  and 73.3 percent in  Tokyo , according to Jones
Lang LaSalle. The average daily room rate in Sydney was $213,
compared with $231 in  New York , $210 in London and $261 in
Tokyo, according to conversions of Jones Lang LaSalle figures to
U.S. dollars as of June 30 exchange rates.  Procuring materials, equipment and workers is becoming more
difficult for builders as the resources industry pushes costs
higher, the Australian Industry Group, which represents
businesses, said in its  Construction Outlook  report in May.  Building Costs  Input costs, which have risen for 82 months, climbed 4.9
points to 73.7 in June from May, the Housing Industry
Association-AI Group’s  Performance of Construction Index  shows.
 Construction wages  climbed 4.2 percent in the March quarter from
a year earlier, according to statistics bureau figures.  Sales to offshore groups were A$347 million in the first
half of 2011, Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels said. The second-highest
amount in the past decade was A$526 million in the first six
months of 2010, when such sales accounted for 84 percent of
transactions. First-half sales to both local and foreign groups
was the most since 2007, when A$1.2 billion worth of properties
were sold, it said.  “As long as you’re acquiring an asset at a reasonable
price, you’ll have the benefit of good returns from operations,
in addition to an upside in the capital value,” Rutger Smits,
director at hospitality consultancy AHS Advisory, said in
Sydney. “The capital required to buy these assets is more
readily available with overseas investors than Australians.”  Australian banks have cut lending to commercial property by
15 percent since a 2009 peak, the nation’s central bank said in
its  Financial Stability Review  in March.  ‘Excellent’ Fundamentals  YTL Corp.-managed Starhill agreed to buy the Sydney,
 Brisbane  and Melbourne Marriott hotels from Colonial First State
Global Asset Management on June 13 for A$415 million.  The Malaysian property trust gained 1,016 guest rooms in
the centers of Australia’s biggest cities, “each benefiting
from excellent hotel-market fundamentals and strong historic
trading performance,” Starhill said in a statement to the Kuala
Lumpur stock exchange.  Hotel-room demand across Australia is expected to climb 2.3
percent a year, while room nights available will rise 0.7
percent, the Deloitte Access Economics report said. This will
raise revenue-per-available-room, a measure of occupancy and
rates, by an average 5.5 percent a year over the next three
years, the figures show.  Hong Kong-based Langham  agreed to buy  the 75-room, 21-suite
Observatory Hotel in central Sydney from New York-listed Orient-
Express Hotels Ltd. in June. Langham acquired the property --the
top hotel in Australia in Conde Nast Traveler’s  2012 Gold List  -
- at about half its replacement value even with competition from
other global groups, said Brett Butcher, chief executive officer
of Langham.  Rooms Filling  The price, which Butcher declined to reveal, gives Langham
a “good base of return on the investment we’ve made, so
eventually, the capital gain on that hotel would be quite
significant,” he said. “We can use this as a springboard to
look at management opportunities or even further investments.”  Occupancy rates across Australia are expected to climb to
68 percent by the end of 2014, the highest rate seen in decades,
from 65 percent now, Deloitte figures show. This will range from
60 percent in regional Australia to as high as 89 percent in
Perth and 88 percent in Sydney, it said.  The transactions this year followed an agreement by Mirvac
in December to sell its hotel management business to a
partnership of Ascendas Pte and Accor Asia Pacific.  Mirvac’s hotels, many at the top end of the market,
complemented Accor’s existing mid-market and budget offerings in
Australia, Simon McGrath, Paris-based Accor’s Australian CEO,
said in an interview in Sydney.  ‘Boots and All’  “We’ll continue to look for acquisitions; we’ll continue
to look for management contracts,” McGrath said.  Ascendas included the hotels in its Ascendas Hospitality
Trust, which began trading on the Singapore stock exchange on
July 27. McGrath declined to comment on the listing.  Investors are increasingly entering Australia “boots and
all, by securing both property assets and management rights,”
Michael Thomson, national director for hotels and leisure at
broker Colliers International, said in a  release  on July 19.
“We are expecting to see hotel sales volumes for 2012 achieve
levels not seen in Australia in several years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  