-- Sinopec Group Leads Dollar Debt Sales as Asia Bond Risk Tumbles
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-08-06T04:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/asia-pacific-bond-risk-drops-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
China Petrochemical Corp., known as
Sinopec Group, is planning the first U.S. dollar-denominated
note sale by an Asian issuer in almost a week, according to a
person familiar with the matter. Bond risk in the region fell to
a more than four-month low,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  prices show.  Sinopec Group is marketing an increase to its May 2022
notes at about 155 basis points more than Treasuries to raise as
much as $500 million, the person said, asking not to be
identified because the details are private.  Sound Global Ltd. (SGL) , a
Chinese water treatment provider, is considering pricing five-
year debt in the low 12 percent area as soon as today, another
person said, also seeking anonymity.  The sales would be the first in dollars by the region’s
issuers since July 31 after the  U.S. economy  added more jobs
than expected and an agreement between Greece and its creditors
to boost efforts to comply with its bailout terms tempered
concern Asian growth may slow and increased perceptions of
corporate creditworthiness.  “The Asian market should see some positive momentum today
flowing from the better-than-expected U.S. employment data and
optimism out of Europe,” said Raymond Lee, a portfolio manager
in Sydney at Kapstream Capital Pty which oversees the equivalent
of about $4.75 billion. “The improved risk sentiment should see
some added demand for Asian bonds.”  Sinopec Group plans to increase the $1 billion 10-year
notes it sold in May as early as today, the person familiar with
the matter said. Sound Global is  debuting  in the dollar market
after selling 885 million  yuan  ($139 million) of convertible
debt in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  iTraxx Index  The Markit iTraxx Asia  index  of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan decreased 5 basis points to 153 basis
points as of 11:52 a.m. in Singapore, Credit Agricole prices
show. The index is set for its lowest close since March 27,
according to CMA.  U.S. employers added 163,000 workers in July, 63 percent
more than expected, according to a median estimate of 89
analysts before the Aug. 3 release.  In Europe, there is “overall agreement on the need to
strengthen policy efforts” to help Greece meet its bailout
terms, representatives from the European Commission,  European
Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday
after meeting the country’s Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras
in  Athens .  The Markit iTraxx Australia  index  fell 6 basis points to
162 basis points as of 1:52 p.m. in Sydney, Credit Agricole
prices show. The gauge is on course for its lowest close since
May 4, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The indexes are benchmarks for insuring bonds against
default and traders use them to speculate on  credit quality . A
drop signals signals improving perceptions of creditworthiness.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  