-- MasterCard Files Appeal on Card Fees With EU’s Highest Court
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-08-06T11:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/mastercard-files-appeal-on-card-fees-with-eu-s-highest-court-1-.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA)  is asking the
European Union’s highest court to overturn an EU decision that
the company’s cross-border card fees breach antitrust rules.  MasterCard filed its appeal at the EU Court of Justice in
Luxembourg in a case that may affect the future of card payment
systems in Europe. MasterCard told a lower EU court in a hearing
last year that it can’t operate without the fees it charges on
credit-card payments. The company lost its first appeal and has
now taken its fight to the top EU court.  “The legal issues arising from this case are important for
the future development of card payment schemes and for the
continued delivery of the most advanced electronic payment
solutions in  Europe ,” MasterCard Europe said in an e-mailed
statement today. “It is important, and in the best interests of
our customers, consumers and merchants” that the EU court “is
given the opportunity to clarify these legal uncertainties.”  The EU General Court, the bloc’s second-highest, in
May backed the European Commission’s 2007 decision that
MasterCard’s levies unfairly inflated the transaction fees paid
by retailers for processing payments. The second-biggest card
network, supported by banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , previously argued the so-
called multilateral  interchange fees  are crucial for sharing the
costs of debit and credit card payments.  Road-Map  The case tests whether such levies are unfair to retailers
and customers and could be a road-map for national regulators to
pursue their own complaints. Visa Europe Ltd., operator of the
EU’s largest payment-card network, was sent an antitrust
complaint over its cross-border credit-card payment fees, EU
regulators said July 31.  Visa Europe has reduced similar fees for  debit cards  to
settle a 2009 EU complaint. The company split from  Visa Inc. (V) 
before the U.S. card company’s initial public offering in early
2008.  While MasterCard agreed to fee changes in 2009 in a
settlement with the Brussels-based EU regulator to avoid a daily
penalty of as much as 3.5 percent of sales, it asked the court
to quash the EU antitrust agency’s findings. The fee cuts will
save consumers 200 million euros ($247 million) a year, the
commission said at the time.  ‘Substantial Damages’  An unsuccessful appeal at the EU’s top court could force
MasterCard to pay “substantial damages” in private actions
against the company that could be triggered by the decision, the
company said in a U.S. filing earlier this month.  In the U.K., such claims have already been filed,
MasterCard said in the filing.  Retailers have long complained about the costs. Unlike with
checks, banks charge them fees, known as interchange, to process
debit- and credit-card payments. The amounts are set by the card
operators, which own the payment networks and pass the money to
the banks.  Five U.K. retailers, including Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda,
have filed separate lawsuits in  London  against MasterCard,
according to court documents dated May 23.  The commission declined to comment on the appeal.  Rulings by the EU Court of Justice are binding and cannot
be appealed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  