-- Tropical Storm Ernesto Expected to Become Hurricane Today
-- B y   C h a r l o t t e   P o r t e r
-- 2012-08-07T01:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/atlantic-storm-ernesto-may-strengthen-in-caribbean-center-says.html
Tropical Storm Ernesto gained
strength in the Caribbean Sea east of  Nicaragua  and will
probably become a hurricane by early tomorrow as it moves toward
northern Belize,  the U.S. National Hurricane Center  said.  The fifth storm of the  Atlantic hurricane season  had winds
of 65 miles (105 kilometers) an hour, up from 50 mph earlier
today, and was head west-northwest in the Caribbean at 12 mph,
the Miami-based center said in an  advisory  before 8 p.m. East
Coast time. Ernesto was 295 miles (475 kilometers) east of the
island of Roatan in the Bay Islands of Honduras.  “Ernesto struggled to become better organized over the
weekend, but warm water and low wind shear will provide fuel for
strengthening during the next couple of days,”  Brian Edwards , a
meteorologist for AccuWeather Inc. of  State College ,
Pennsylvania, wrote on the company’s website. “Ernesto is
expected to make landfall as a Category 1 hurricane in Belize
early Wednesday morning.”  A reconnaissance aircraft was on its way to investigate the
storm, the hurricane center said in the advisory.  A  hurricane warning  is in effect for the east coast of
Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula from Chetumal to Punta Allen and for
Belize’s coastline.  Tropical storm warnings and watches were issued earlier
today for the entire coast of Honduras and for the Yucatan north
from Punta Allen, including the resort areas of Tulum and Cancun.  Rain, Surf  As much as 12 inches (30 centimeters) of rain may fall over
the southern Yucatan and Belize, creating dangerous flash floods
and mudslides, the hurricane center said. The sea may rise 4
feet above normal tide levels near the area of landfall.  The center’s tracking map shows Ernesto  making landfall  Aug.
8 on the northern coast of Belize, crossing the Yucatan into the
Bay of Campeche as a tropical storm and then returning to land
in southern Mexico.  “If Ernesto survives its crossing of the Yucatan Peninsula,
the potential exists for it to re-strengthen over the Bay of
Campeche, and make a second landfall on Mexico’s coast Thursday
night south of Veracruz,”  Jeff Masters , co-founder of  Weather
Underground  in Ann Arbor, Michigan, said on his blog.  Most computer models “predict that Ernesto will pop out so
far south in the Bay of Campeche that the storm will have less
than 24 hours over water,” he said. “This makes significant
re-intensification unlikely.”  Masters said he didn’t expect Ernesto’s rainfall to reach
as far north as Texas.  A separate system, Tropical Storm Florence, weakened to a
remnant earlier today low in the Atlantic between the northern
Leeward and Cape Verde islands and is expected to dissipate by
the end of the week. The center stopped issuing advisories on
the system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlotte  Porter in  New York  at 
 cporter11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  