-- Aussie Reaches 4-Month High Versus U.S. Dollar on RBA Rate Bets
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-08-06T21:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/aussie-reaches-4-month-high-versus-u-s-dollar-on-rba-rate-bets.html
The Australian dollar touched a more
than four-month high against the greenback on speculation the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia will refrain today from lowering the
highest interest rate in the developed world.  The RBA will keep its cash target rate at 3.5 percent,
according to the media estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 27
economists. New Zealand’s dollar gained after German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s government supported the European Central Bank’s
plan to buy bonds. Commodity prices rose and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gained to its highest level since May.  “If rates aren’t changed, and they still signal their
rates are appropriate, this could be neutral to slightly
positive for the Australian dollar,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a
currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Not for any particular domestic reason,
but because the risk backdrop has improved and, on a relative
basis, Australian  interest rates  are still fairly attractive.”  Australia’s dollar closed little changed yesterday at
$1.0569 in New York after touching $1.0593, the highest since
March 20. The Aussie declined 0.3 percent to 82.698 yen.  New Zealand ’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, rose 0.1 percent
against its U.S. peer to 82 cents after reaching 82.24 cents,
the highest since April 30. The kiwi slipped 0.2 percent to
64.159 yen.  The S&P 500 increased as much as 0.6 percent, and the MSCI
World Index of stocks gained up to 0.9 percent to its highest
point since May 4. The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity
Index (CRY)  rose for a second day.  ‘Not Worried’  Merkel’s government is “not worried” by Draghi’s
announcement of Aug. 2, deputy Merkel spokesman Georg Streiter
told reporters yesterday at a regular press briefing in Berlin,
when asked whether the government is concerned that ECB
independence might be compromised.  Australia has the highest benchmark borrowing costs among
major developed economies. Policy rates in New Zealand, Norway,
Sweden, Canada and the euro region range from 0.75 percent to
2.5 percent, while rates in Japan and the U.S. are as low as
zero.  Interest-rate swaps  data indicate traders see an 84 percent
chance RBA policy makers will hold the overnight cash-rate
target unchanged tomorrow for a second straight meeting. Of the
27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, 26 predict no change
while one forecast a reduction to 3.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  