-- Aussie Dollar Touches 4-Month High as RBA Holds Rates
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-08-07T06:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/aussie-trades-near-4-month-high-on-bets-rba-to-hold-rates.html
Australia ’s dollar touched its
highest level in more than four months after the  Reserve Bank 
kept  interest rates  unchanged and said current policy settings
are “appropriate.”  The so-called Aussie rose against most major peers after
RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board said in a statement
from Sydney the nation’s growth is close to trend. New Zealand’s
currency maintained a three-day gain as Asian stocks extended a
global rally, supporting demand for riskier assets.  “I think the RBA hasn’t really set out a case for lowering
interest rates, so I suspect that’s probably maybe a surprise to
the markets,” said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific
research at TD Securities in Singapore. The overall statement
“seemed to be quite bullish for the Aussie dollar.”  Australia’s dollar touched $1.0603, the strongest level
since March 20, before trading little changed at $1.0570 as of
4:09 p.m. in Sydney. It traded at 82.73 yen from 82.70
yesterday.  New Zealand ’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, was also little
changed at 81.97 U.S. cents, after rising 1.5 percent over the
previous three trading sessions. It bought 64.17 yen from 64.16.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rose 0.6 percent, after
climbing 1.8 percent yesterday.  The RBA’s decision to keep the overnight cash-rate target
at 3.5 percent, the highest among major developed nations, was
predicted by 26 of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Central bankers lowered the benchmark rate by 1.25 percentage
points from November to June.  Biggest Advance  The Aussie dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded currency,
rose 8.5 percent versus the greenback since the RBA’s last rate
cut on June 5, the biggest advance among major currencies.  “While it is too soon to see the full impact of those
changes, dwelling prices have firmed a little over the past
couple of months, and business credit has over the past six
months recorded its strongest growth for several years,”
Stevens said today. “The  exchange rate , however, has remained
high, despite the observed decline in the terms of trade and the
weaker global outlook.”  Demand for the South Pacific nations’ currencies was
limited as technical indicators signaled their recent gains may
have been too rapid.  The 14-day relative strength index for the Australian
dollar versus the greenback was at 67, approaching the 70 level
that some traders see as an indication that an asset may reverse
direction. The kiwi’s RSI against the U.S. currency was also at
67.  “Looking at where the currencies are trading, they have
come a long way from lows, expecting a lot of positives,” said
Greg Gibbs, a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in Sydney. “Perhaps the market will be a
little bit reluctant to keep buying at these levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  