-- Berkshire Cash Hoard Swells as Buffett Pares Consumer Stocks
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-06T17:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/berkshire-s-cash-hoard-swells-as-buffett-pares-consumer-stocks.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s cash
swelled in the second quarter to its highest level in a year as
Chairman  Warren Buffett  pared bets on consumer-products stocks.  Cash advanced 7.5 percent to $40.7 billion in the three
months ended June 30, the Omaha, Nebraska-based company said in
an Aug. 3 regulatory filing. Berkshire was a net seller of
equities in the quarter as it cut its allocation to companies
that make and distribute  consumer goods  while boosting holdings
of financial firms and a group called “commercial, industrial
and other.” Individual stocks weren’t listed in the filing.  “Why keep his old names that served a purpose for a while
and have gone up,” Tom Russo, a partner at Berkshire investor
Gardner Russo & Gardner, said in a phone interview. Some of the
consumer stocks “have various forms of blemishes.”  Buffett, 81, has cited challenges at consumer-products
firms in Berkshire’s $86.2 billion  stock portfolio , including
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  The
billionaire has used his cash to build the largest stakes in
firms including  Wells Fargo & Co . and to expand Berkshire
through acquisitions.  He has said he looks for one good buyout idea annually and
told investors at his May shareholder meeting that he couldn’t
come to an agreement on a potential acquisition valued at about
$22 billion. Berkshire hasn’t struck a  deal  larger than $1
billion since its 2011 purchase of engine-additives maker
Lubrizol Corp. for about $9 billion.  The extra cash adds to the ability to make an acquisition
on-par with Berkshire’s largest takeover, the 2010 purchase of
railroad Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  for $26.5 billion, said
Buffett biographer  Andrew Kilpatrick .  ‘Something Enormous’  “If an elephant comes along, he will fire,” Kilpatrick
said by phone. “He’s fully equipped to do something enormous.”  Berkshire sold $3.01 billion in equities in the second
quarter, while purchasing $1.85 billion in stock, according to
the filing. The cost basis of the consumer portfolio slipped to
$9.84 billion from $12.3 billion.  The figure for the financial-firm holdings climbed to $17.7
billion from $17.1 billion, and the commercial-industrial group
advanced to $23.7 billion from $23.3 billion. The data show that
Buffett probably isn’t building another large stake, as he did
last year with  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , Kilpatrick
said.  Buffett pared Berkshire’s Kraft holdings in 2010 and
continued to cut it in four consecutive quarters to 78 million
shares through March 31, according to regulatory filings. The
billionaire called the foodmaker’s takeover of Cadbury Plc and
the sale of its pizza brands in 2010 “dumb” at Berkshire’s
shareholder’s meeting that year. Kraft has advanced  37 percent 
since his remarks through Aug. 3 to $40.51.  J&J Stake  The billionaire held 29 million J&J shares as of March 31,
down from 42.6 million at the end of 2010. The  New Brunswick ,
New Jersey-based maker of health-care products advanced 5.4
percent this year to $69.12 on Aug. 3.  J&J was ordered in April to pay more than $1.1 billion in
fines after an Arkansas jury found the firm misled doctors and
patients about the risks of antipsychotic medication Risperdal.
The company has also struggled with recalls of artificial hip
implants and over-the-counter medicines.  “It’s still got a lot of wonderful products and it’s got a
wonderful balance sheet and all of that, but there have been too
many mistakes,” Buffett told CNBC in a Feb. 27 interview.  Razors, Detergent  Berkshire reduced its holdings of P&G by 4.6 percent in the
first quarter to 73.3 million shares. The maker of Gillette
razors and Tide laundry detergent has had difficulty raising
prices for some products as consumers consider less expensive
alternatives, Buffett told the cable news station in May. The
stock is down 1.8 percent this year to $65.50 on Aug. 3.  P&G Chief Executive Officer  Robert McDonald  is working to
prove that his pricing and plan to cut cost cuts will be enough
to improve results. Last month,  Bill Ackman ’s Pershing Square
Capital Management LP took a $1.8 billion stake in P&G, and
people familiar with the matter said he plans to push for
leadership changes.  Buffett’s firm has until next week to file a list of its
U.S. equity holdings as of June 30 with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Representatives for J&J, Kraft and
Cincinnati, Ohio-based P&G declined to comment. Buffett didn’t
return a message left with an assistant.  Combs, Weschler  Buffett probably didn’t cut his stake in Atlanta-based
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , Berkshire’s largest holding, according to Russo.
The billionaire said in June that he added to a stake in  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  The retailer plunged to $57.36 in April after
the  New York  Times said the company bribed Mexican officials to
speed expansion.  Wal-Mart was “very attractive compared to other big
companies” when the price was $58 or $59, Buffett told  Betty Liu  in a July 13 interview on Bloomberg Television. The retailer
climbed to $74.55 on Aug. 3.  Some of the extra cash may be distributed to Ted Weschler
and Todd Combs, former hedge fund managers whom Buffett hired in
the past two years to help oversee investments, said  David Kass ,
a professor at the University of  Maryland ’s Robert H. Smith
School of Business. Buffett told Liu last month that his
deputies will probably oversee about $4 billion apiece, compared
with $2.75 billion at the beginning of this year.  Derivative Bets  Buffett may also use the funds to exit some derivatives
bets, Kass said in a phone interview yesterday. Berkshire struck
a deal after June 30 to cancel about half of the $16 billion in
notional protection it sold against municipal and state bond
defaults, according to the filing. Buffett’s firm may have to
pay the counterparty to retire the obligations, Kass said.  Derivatives bets have made Berkshire’s earnings more
volatile, because they’re marked to market. Net income slid 9
percent in the second quarter to  $3.11 billion  on widening
losses from separate derivatives tied to equity markets.
Operating earnings, which exclude some investment results,
climbed on gains at the railroad and insurance units.  Buffett wrote in a February letter to shareholders that new
rules around collateral have made derivatives less attractive.
The wagers will probably shrink under the company’s next
leaders, he said at the annual meeting in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  