-- Bernanke Says Economic Data May Mask Individual Suffering
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-08-06T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/bernanke-says-economic-data-may-mask-individual-suffering.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said gauges of the U.S. economy’s strength may fail to
measure the suffering of individual citizens.  “Even though some key aggregate metrics -- including
 consumer spending , disposable income, household net worth, and
debt service payments -- have moved in the direction of
recovery, it is clear that many individuals and households
continue to struggle with difficult economic and financial
conditions,” Bernanke said today in remarks prepared for a
conference in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said on Aug. 1 it will
pump fresh stimulus if necessary into the weakening economic
expansion to boost growth and reduce an  unemployment rate  that’s
been stuck at 8 percent or higher for more than three years.  Bernanke didn’t address the outlook for monetary policy or
the economy, or expand on the Fed’s Aug. 1 statement. His
remarks, focused on economic measurement, will be delivered via
prerecorded video.  The 58-year-old Fed chief, a former Princeton professor,
said economists should “increase the attention paid to
microeconomic data, which better capture the diversity of
experience across households and firms.” Also, researchers
should “seek better and more-direct measurements of economic
well-being, the ultimate objective of our policy decisions.”  He said interesting projects include the Organization for
Economic Co-operation and Development’s Better Life Initiative,
which aims at measuring quality of life in different countries,
and the Gross National Happiness index compiled by Bhutan.  Such gauges “incorporate elements such as psychological
wellness, the level of education, physical health and safety,
community vitality and the strength of family and social ties,
and time spent in leisure activities,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  