-- Best Buy Founder Offers $26 a Share to Buy Retailer
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-08-06T21:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/best-buy-founder-offers-26-a-share-to-buy-retailer.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY)  founder Richard Schulze,
who stepped down as chairman in June, offered to take the
electronics retailer private at $24 to $26 a share. The stock
had the biggest gain in more than three years.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Schulze’s financial adviser, is
confident it can obtain financing for an offer, according to a
letter sent to the board today. The offer is at least 36 percent
more than Best Buy’s closing price Aug. 3, and the midpoint of
the range gives the company an equity value of $8.5 billion.  Schulze, who  held  more than 20 percent of Richfield,
Minnesota-based Best Buy as of June, plans to contribute $1
billion in equity from that stake, the letter shows. The rest of
the money will come from what the letter calls “premier
private-equity firms with deep experience in retail who are
interested in a possible acquisition of Best Buy” and debt
financing.  Standard & Poor’s  and Fitch Ratings cut the company’s
credit rating to junk on the prospect of additional borrowings.  “I have been actively exploring all available options for
my ownership stake,” Schulze, 71, said in the letter. “That
exploration has reinforced my belief that bold and extensive
changes are needed for Best Buy to return to market leadership
and has led me to the conclusion that the company’s best chance
for renewed success will be to implement these changes under a
different ownership structure.”  Best Buy confirmed in an e-mailed statement that it had
received the letter from Schulze and said its  board  would
consider it “in due course.” Through a spokesman, Schulze
declined to comment on the letter.  Shares Surge  Best Buy advanced 13 percent to $19.99 at the close in  New
York  for the biggest gain since March 2009. The  shares  failed to
rise to the offer price after analysts said a deal may be
difficult to complete.  The possibility of higher debt prompted Standard & Poor’s
to cut the retailer’s credit rating one level to BB+, the first
level below investment grade, Jayne M. Ross, an analyst for S&P,
said today in a statement. The rating remains on watch negative,
which means it may be reduced further.  Fitch also cut the rating to BB+ with a negative watch,
while Moody’s Investors Service reaffirmed its rating of Baa2,
the second-lowest investment-grade rating, and moved the outlook
to developing from stable.  The electronics chain had about $1.7 billion in long-term
 debt  as of May 5, according to regulatory filings.  Due Diligence  Schulze is seeking the  board’s  permission to conduct due
diligence on the electronics retailer and form a group including
 private-equity  funds and other executives that would make a more
complete offer. Under Minnesota corporate law, Schulze needs
permission from directors to form such a group. His offer will
have no deadline as yet, and it’s subject to being able to
conduct due diligence.  “With the board’s agreement that I may work together with
potential private equity partners and former senior executives,
and with timely access to relevant non-public company
information, I am confident that the necessary due diligence
could be completed expeditiously and a binding agreement to
acquire Best Buy could be reached quickly,” Schulze said. “I
am prepared to enter into a customary confidentiality agreement
and begin work immediately.”  Schulze has negotiated unsuccessfully with the board for
the past several weeks, seeking permission to conduct due
diligence and form a bidding group, said a person familiar with
the matter. Best Buy’s board told Schulze it wasn’t a good time
to go private because it was looking for a new CEO, and asked
for three more weeks to consider the matter, said this person.  Private Equity  No private-equity firms are named in the letter, yet
Schulze has sought and received interest from funds that want to
be part of his effort, said this person. He likely would have
two buyout firms backing his offer, said this person.  Private-equity firms may need to invest $3.5 billion to $4
billion, according to Peter Keith, an analyst at Piper Jaffray
Cos. in New York.  “While a deal may be able to get done at these levels, it
gives us pause that no private equity firm was disclosed in the
letter and no other known equity financing is secured at this
point,” Keith wrote today in a note to clients. He rates Best
Buy neutral, equivalent of a hold.  Schulze, who spent almost half a century with the company,
resigned as chairman in June after an internal probe found he
acted inappropriately in handling allegations about then-CEO
 Brian Dunn ’s relationship with a female employee. Schulze said
when he resigned that he would consider all options, including
selling his stake.  Recruiting Executives  Former Best Buy Chief Executive Officer Brad Anderson and
former President and Chief Operating Officer Allen Lenzmeier
have expressed interest in rejoining the company as part of a
buyout, according to the letter. Other former executives, such
as J.D. Wilson, who was senior vice president of enterprise
capabilities, have spoken to Schulze about joining his effort.  “He is talking to people he trusts,” Wilson said in an
interview in July. “There is a small group he’d like to have
with him in righting the ship. He is serious as a heart
attack.”  Wilson told Schulze, who called him in June, that he would
be “raring to go” if he was able to buy out the company.  The retailer has few assets it could sell if business
remains weak, according to Piper Jaffray’s Keith. He said
Schulze’s style as a “hands on business manager” may pose a
risk to private equity owners concerned about an “overly
controlling business partner.”  Losing Customers  Best Buy has struggled as customers migrate to  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  and other online merchants. The retailer posted a  net loss 
of $1.23 billion on revenue of $50.7 billion for the year that
ended in March, its first annual loss since 1991, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  To trim costs, Best Buy is shutting 50 big-box locations in
the U.S. this year while upgrading its website and accelerating
the opening of stores to sell mobile phones.  While Schulze appears to have a plan to address some of the
company’s strategic obstacles, the added debt needed to complete
a buyout would “substantially” increase risks for Best Buy,
said  Colin McGranahan , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in New York.  “The proposal is still a long way from a firm bid,”
McGranahan wrote today in a note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  