-- Bicent Power Wins Approval of Debt for Equity Swap Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-08-06T21:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/bicent-power-wins-approval-of-debt-for-equity-swap-plan.html
Bicent Holdings LLC, the owner of two
electric power plants capable of generating 168 megawatts, won
court approval of its restructuring plan swapping lenders’ debt
for almost all of the reorganized company’s equity.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
approved the reorganization plan paving the way for Bicent to
exit court protection in just over three months, according to
court documents filed July 31.  Under the company’s restructuring plan negotiated with
creditors before filing bankruptcy, lenders with a first
priority of repayment, owed about $147.2 million, will get 95
percent of the reorganized company’s equity. Lenders that
backstopped Bicent’s bankruptcy loan will get the remaining 5
percent of the reorganized stock.  Lenders that are second in line to be repaid, owed about
$128.5 million, will get $1.5 million cash and warrants to
purchase as much as 12.5 percent of the new equity, according to
court documents.  The two lender groups, the only creditors that voted on the
plan, unanimously accepted the proposal, Pauline K. Morgan, a
lawyer representing the company told Gross at a July 30 hearing.  Unsecured creditors and mezzanine lenders won’t get any
recovery under the plan, court papers show.  Bicent, based in Lafayette, Colorado, owns and operates two
generating facilities: Hardin, a 120-megawatt coal-fired plant
about 40 miles (64 kilometers) southeast of Billings, Montana,
and San Joaquin, a 48-megawatt natural gas-fired facility about
70 miles east of  San Francisco  in Lathrop,  California , according
to court filings.  The company sought  bankruptcy protection  April 23 in
Wilmington, Delaware. Unit Bicent Power listed more than $500
million in debt in Chapter 11 documents.  The main case is In re Bicent Holdings LLC, 12-11304,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 