-- Black Holes Jam on Bass to Accompany Star Creation
-- B y   C a l e b   S c h a r f
-- 2012-08-06T22:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/black-holes-jam-on-bass-to-accompany-star-creation.html
Carl Sagan once said that to make an
apple pie from scratch you must first invent the universe. He
was right. And in inventing the universe you will need to build
all the objects and structures found in it.  These are the planets, stars, white dwarfs, neutron stars,
black holes, gas, dust, galaxies, galaxy clusters and
superclusters. Eventually, when this cosmic mix has cooked long
enough, the molecular arrangements will emerge to produce that
pie. But how does the universe build all this stuff? This is one
of the biggest unsolved puzzles in science.  We do know something about how cosmic objects are
constructed: The glue used to build them is gravity. The number
and variety of objects we see in the sky are in part determined
by the effect of gravity on the tiny bumps and kinks of matter
that the universe started out with almost 14 billion years ago.  The second piece of the problem is a little trickier: It’s
all about resistance to building, or even destruction. Matter in
the universe, rather perversely, creates many obstacles to its
own assembly, the most fundamental of which comes from pressure,
which is in turn related to temperature. The forces of gas
pressure resist compression, and the hotter the gas gets, the
greater its pressure.  Critical Point  In 1902, a young physicist at the University of Cambridge
named James Jeans figured out that if you measured the
temperature and density in a nebula, you could calculate the
size of a region that would be hovering in balance, poised to
collapse. A smaller region would have insufficient gravity to
overcome its gas pressure. A bigger region would have
insufficient gas pressure to resist gravity’s embrace. This
critical point is known as the Jeans Mass.  In other words, any nebula bigger than its Jeans Mass is
almost inevitably in the process of collapsing and condensing to
make stars. Similarly, any cloud of gas that is actively cooling
down by emitting radiation stands a good chance of cooling
enough that it will begin to collapse under its own gravity.  We’d have to wait around for hundreds of thousands of years
to notice a nebula collapsing to make stars. Because the human
time scale is so short, Jeans found a way for us to deduce
actions of matter that are happening at a snail’s pace from our
terrestrial perspective. To make objects, gravity must always
overwhelm pressure.  In the outer realms of a galaxy cluster the gas cools at a
very slow rate. In the center, though, the process can cool down
hundreds of times the mass of the sun in gas every year. That
may not sound like much, but a typical cluster has been around
for billions of years, so that adds up to an awful lot of
material turning into a thick, cold nebula and condensing into
stars.  It was in the 1970s, with the advent of Earth-orbiting X-
ray telescopes, that scientists became aware of this
characteristic of galaxy clusters. At the center of some
clusters, X-ray emissions indicated the gas was cooling down in
less than 10 million years, the blink of a cosmic eye -- a
runaway process that soon earned the name “cooling flow.”  It seemed logical that all that cooling gas should end up
condensing within the big elliptical galaxy that sits in the
center of most large galaxy clusters. And as a result, much new
star formation should be occurring there. But there wasn’t much
evidence to support this. The giant galaxies at the centers of
clusters simply didn’t contain a huge excess of young stars.  Fooling Telescopes  In 1994, the English astronomer Andrew Fabian tried to
explain what might be going on. It was conceivable, he
suggested, that the cooling gas was turning into cold molecules
of simple compounds like carbon monoxide, or magnetic fields
might be channeling and constraining the gas, and perhaps hot
and cold gases were coexisting in structures that fooled our
telescopes.  As with so many puzzles in science, new observations would
clarify things. In 1999, within five months of each other, two
mammoth telescopes were launched into Earth’s orbit --  NASA ’s
Chandra X-ray Observatory and the  European Space Agency ’s Newton
Observatory. Both were designed to collect more X-ray light from
astrophysical objects than ever before.  And they showed the gas, cooling. Down and down it went.
And then ... nothing. You can imagine the scientists’
consternation. In cluster after cluster, the gas cooled as
expected, then just as it reached a temperature of a little more
than 10 million degrees, it stopped. Not only did it stop, it
seemed to vanish, with just a trickle carrying on down to lower
and lower temperatures. It felt like watching a great ocean
liner gracefully sailing off to the horizon, and then suddenly
turning into a dinghy before dropping out of sight.  Perhaps an unknown mechanism was heating the gas and
getting it quickly back into the general mix before astronomers
noticed it. Or perhaps the just-cooled gas was mixing with
either much hotter or much cooler gas, or was obscured by a
hitherto unseen blanket of cool material that blocked the X-rays
from our view.  There was another possibility. Maybe energy from a central
supermassive black hole was halting the cooling. But how?
Scientists needed something to indicate exactly where to look.
In the end there were several such signposts, but one in
particular was so big and clear that in retrospect it’s almost
embarrassing it took so long to connect the dots.  The answer came in a study of Perseus, a huge cluster of
hundreds of galaxies about 250 million light-years from our
solar system. Perseus is one of the largest clusters in our
cosmic neighborhood; if we could see it with our eyes, it would
cover a patch of sky four times broader than the full moon. It
stretches across 12 million light-years and contains a thousand
times the mass of the Milky Way. As in all such vast
gravitational wells, the bulk of the normal matter in Perseus
consists of gas that is trying to cool off. And just as in so
many clusters, within the center is the unmistakable signature
of particles that have been spewed from around a supermassive
black hole, glowing with radio emission.  Dirty Thumbprint  A puzzle about Perseus had emerged in the early 1980s with
its first detailed X-ray images. There in one corner was a
strange dark zone, what looked on the images like a dirty
thumbprint, blotting out perhaps a hundred thousand light-years
of X-ray glow.  Fabian and his colleagues spent nearly two years gathering
almost 280 hours worth of photons to generate the most precise
image of Perseus possible. And what an image it was! Perseus
looked like a smooth pond after a giant pebble has been thrown
in. There were bubble-like gaps, and there were ripples --
actual waves through intergalactic space -- moving outward from
the supermassive black hole at the core.  Fabian’s team looked at the data every way, holding it up
like a faceted diamond to see the shifting colors. The
mysterious gaps high in the cluster’s outer regions were rising
bubbles. And down toward the core were new bubbles, with ripples
between them.  Apparently, the buoyantly rising bubbles were lifting and
pushing the cooling gas aside, preventing it from funneling down
to the core. The bubbles set in motion sound waves that
dispersed energy throughout Perseus, keeping it at a perfect
simmer.  A simple physics experiment brings the principle to life:
Place a music loudspeaker on its back, so that it forms a
shallow cup. Then add a sprinkling of rice grains. With the
music off, they roll down to the middle of the speaker cup, but
when you turn on the music and turn up the volume -- perhaps a
bit of Bach or heavy metal -- the bass notes (longer sound
waves) will vibrate the speaker and push at the grains. Given
the right pitch and volume, they will bounce back out up the
sides of the cup, just like the gas in Perseus.  Ultimate Subwoofer  Every few million years a supermassive black hole in
Perseus is being fed matter. When this happens, an outburst of
energy from its jets and radiation inflates bubbles of high-
pressure, fast-moving particles into the comparatively cool and
dense gas of the cluster. As these bubbles inflate, they release
a wave of energy into the gas. The black hole is driving the
ultimate subwoofer. The note it’s playing? Fifty-seven octaves
below B flat above middle C, in case you were curious. That’s
approximately 300,000 trillion times lower in frequency than the
human voice. And the output is a planet-disintegrating 10^37
watts. Supermassive black holes make a very powerful sound
system.  By now, evidence of similar bubbles has been found in 70
percent of all known galaxy clusters. There are also ethereal
fingerprints of gas trickles that manage to cool all the way
down before being heated and rearranged, and in among these are
large, young, blue stars. The only viable explanation is that
new stellar systems are forming here. The number is limited,
because black holes are controlling the  production line .  (Caleb Scharf, an astrophysicist, is the director of
Columbia University’s Astrobiology Center and author of the blog
Life, Unbounded. This is the second of five excerpts from his
new book, “ Gravity’s Engines: How Bubble-Blowing Black Holes
Rule Galaxies, Stars and Life in the Cosmos ,” which will be
published on Aug. 14 by Farrar, Straus and Giroux. The opinions
expressed are his own. Read  part 1 ,  part 3 ,  part 4 ,  part 5 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caleb Scharf at  caleb@astro.columbia.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 