-- BNP Paribas Leads Gains in French Banks on Draghi’s Bond Plan
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-08-06T11:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/bnp-paribas-leads-gains-in-french-banks-on-draghi-s-bond-plan.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest
bank, rose as much as 5.2 percent to a four-month high in Paris
trading as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s push
to set up a bond-buying plan eased concern over the sovereign-
debt crisis.  BNP Paribas climbed to 33.66 euros, the highest since April
3, and was up 4.8 percent to 33.53 euros by 1:09 p.m.  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s third-largest bank by market value, rose
3.4 percent to 3.67 euros, while  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , the
country’s second-largest bank, added 2.1 percent to 18.91 euros.  “Investors are reappraising Draghi’s comments,” said  Jon Peace , a London-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. who has a
buy rating on BNP Paribas. “BNP comes on top of the list if
investors are more confident and want to get more exposure to
euro-zone banks.”  While global markets tumbled on Aug. 2 after Draghi said
Spain and Italy would have to formally request a resumption of
the ECB’s bond buying in conjunction with Europe’s bailout fund,
they rallied the following day as investors concluded that ECB
action would happen, even if at a future date.  French banks had $334 billion euros in public and private
debt holdings in Italy as of the end of March, the most among
foreign lenders,  Bank for International Settlements  figures
show. That’s the lion’s share of the $534 billion in holdings
they had in the five troubled European economies. Both BNP
Paribas and  Credit Agricole  operate branch networks in Italy.  BNP Paribas last week posted a smaller-than-estimated drop
in second-quarter profit. The Paris-based bank’s core capital
target of 9 percent under Basel III rules was “virtually” met
by the end of June, six months ahead of schedule, it said Aug.
2.  “BNP showed good capital build and a good breadth of
earnings,” said Nomura’s Peace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 