-- Brazil's Coffee Output Seen Making Up for Vietnam Decline
-- B y   J e s s i c a   A b r a h a m s
-- 2012-08-06T12:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/brazil-s-coffee-output-seen-making-up-for-vietnam-decline.html
A 13 percent increase in coffee
output in  Brazil , the world’s largest producer, will compensate
for weaker crops in  Vietnam  and  Colombia , Citigroup Inc. said.  Farmers in Brazil may harvest 56 million bags in the
2012-13 season under way there, the bank said in a report dated
yesterday. Production in Vietnam may drop 10 percent in the
season that starts in October, according to a Bloomberg survey.
The crop in Colombia will be unchanged at 7.5 million bags next
season, still below the 2007-08 level of 12.5 million bags, data
from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  showed.  Coffee growers in Brazil have gathered 70 percent of this
year’s crop after dry weather helped speed up the harvest,
according to brokers Flavour Coffee and Cazarini Trading Co.
Rains in June and early last month delayed the start of the
season, which will end a month later this year, according to
Cepea, a University of Sao Paulo research group.  “The Brazilian coffee harvest has progressed at a strong
clip and has increased availabilities of the caffeinated bean,”
Citibank analysts including Aakash Doshi said in the report.  Arabica coffee has fallen 23 percent in New York so far
this year on speculation of increased supplies from Brazil. The
beans rose to a 14-year high in May last year. Colombia is the
second-biggest producer of the arabica variety, favored for
specialty drinks such as those made by  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  Vietnam
is the biggest grower of robusta beans, used in instant coffee
and espresso. A bag of coffee weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds).  “Coffee farmers have turned their attention to harvesting,
looking to make up for part of the time lost,” Escritorio
Carvalhaes, a Santos, Brazil-based broker, said in a report e-
mailed Aug. 3. “Producers are hoping that the rains forecast
for the second half of August won’t arrive.”  Ending stocks of arabica beans will rise 8 percent from the
previous cycle as the Brazilian harvest recovers after being
delayed by rains, Citigroup said. Global consumption will be
unchanged at 139 million bags, the bank said.  “Expectations are for coffee markets to get modestly
stronger in 2013,” Doshi said.  Arabica coffee for September delivery gained 0.7 percent to
$1.7505 a pound by 7:47 a.m. on the ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net 
Jessica Abrahams in London at 
 jabrahams7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 