-- Brazil’s Raw Sugar Premium Seen Sliding on Supplies, Slow Demand
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-06T15:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/brazil-s-raw-sugar-premium-seen-sliding-on-supplies-slow-demand.html
Buyers of raw sugar from  Brazil , the
world’s largest producer, are paying a smaller premium for the
sweetener as demand remains slow and harvesting in the main
growing region accelerated, according to Swiss Sugar Brokers.  Raw sugar for loading in August at ports in the center
south, the country’s main growing region, was at a premium of
0.1 cent to 0.15 cent a pound to the price of the October
contract on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, the Rolle,
Switzerland-based broker said in a report e-mailed today. The
premium was at 0.25 cent a pound on Aug. 2, according to data
from SA Commodities in Santos, Brazil, and 0.4 cent a pound on
July 29, the Swiss company said then.  Sugar output in Brazil’s center south climbed 2 percent in
the first half of July after dry weather helped to speed up the
harvest, according to data from industry group Unica. Above-
average rainfall in May and June delayed this year’s crop. Sugar
cane processing is down 22 percent from the start of the 2012-13
season there through the first 15 days of July.  “Demand at destination remain idle, and the Brazil line-up
still looks to be covering old sales to the  Far East  and to the
Middle East and African refineries,”  Naim Beydoun , a broker at
Swiss Sugar Brokers, said in the report. “The surplus should
hit the market during the fourth and first quarter,” he said,
citing unidentified traders.  Sugar supplies will outpace demand by 4.5 million metric
tons in the 2012-13 season that starts October, according to
ED&F Man Sugar Ltd. That follows a surplus of 9.6 million tons
in 2011-12, the London-based trader said on Aug. 1. The raw
sweetener has fallen 2.5 percent so far this month after
climbing 7.8 percent in July on concerns dry weather in  India ,
the world’s second-biggest producer, would cut output.  “Physical cash prices are weaker, showing muted end user
demand near term,” Nick Penney, a senior trader at Sucden
Financial Ltd. said in a report e-mailed today. “Whilst a
weather premium is still written into prices, a lack of demand
and the increasing bearish technical picture is going to weigh
on sentiment unless outside factors intervene.”  Raw sugar for October delivery rose 0.3 percent to 22.07
cents a pound by 11:39 a.m. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 