-- Business Is Booming in Empirical Economics
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   &   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-08-06T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/business-is-booming-in-empirical-economics.html
Many had pronounced the field of
economics discredited after the global financial crisis.
Instead, it’s in the midst of a revolution.  The transformation isn’t a mea culpa, or a knee-jerk
reaction to the crisis. Rather, it’s a long-running shift toward
a more empirical field, to the study of what hard data can tell
us about the way the world really works.  Consider the stream of data you will create today. Your
metro card will record what time you caught the train. Your Web
browser will note how you go about your job, and how much you
procrastinate. A mid-afternoon purchase at Starbucks will reveal
your penchant for lattes and the occasional cookie. Your flow of
e-mail traffic will trace out your professional and personal
networks.  At the same time, computing power has made it extremely
easy and cheap to analyze all the data you produce. An economist
with a laptop can, in a matter of seconds, do the kind of number
crunching it used to take a roomful of Ph.D.’s weeks to achieve.
Just a few decades ago, economists used punch cards to program
data analysis for their empirical studies.  The result has been a boom in empirical research. For
example, Raj Chetty, a professor of economics at  Harvard
University , has been analyzing decades of tax returns -- a total
of 6 billion observations -- to learn, among other things,  how
your kindergarten teacher affects your long-term earnings .
Roberto Rigobon and Alberto Cavallo, both economists at
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology ’s  Sloan School of
Management , have built the  Billion Prices Project , which
provides a daily reading on inflation based on prices from
online retailers. In our own  recent research , we have analyzed
the results of surveys asking millions of people about their
happiness.  Changing Theories  The shift toward an even more empirically grounded
economics doesn’t mean theory is less important. When facts were
expensive and scarce, the role of theory was to “fill in” for
missing data. Now, its purpose is to make sense of the vast,
sprawling and unstructured terabytes on our hard drives.  The data revolution is, however, changing our theories --
specifically the way we choose to model how people behave. For
decades, economists assumed that people made calculated,
rational decisions. Without better data to help structure our
understanding of people’s preferences, it was a safe and
convenient choice, even if it was often wrong.  With new data on everything from how we choose our
retirement savings plans to how NBA referees call fouls, we have
learned to look beyond “homo economicus.” We have a much better
grasp of the systematic flaws in reasoning that often get people
into trouble. We know they have a hard time committing to do
difficult things in the future -- to go to the gym, to lose
weight, to save. So we know people can benefit from policies,
such as making 401(k) contributions automatic unless they opt
out, that help them commit to good behavior.  Although perhaps obvious in hindsight, these insights were
put forward over the past several decades by a renegade band of
“behavioral economists” such as  Daniel Kahneman ,  Richard Thaler 
and Matthew Rabin. Today, behavioral studies inform all fields
of economic inquiry.  In the mathematical models they build to help them
understand the world, economists have also long made another
peculiar assumption: that the behavior of an entire group of
individuals -- say, U.S. consumers -- can be modeled as if it
were a single “representative agent.” Today, we have much better
data describing the decisions of individuals, and the power of
our computers allows us to populate our models with millions of
such people, rather than just one.  Economic Lens  Perhaps the broadest insight that has come with the
explosion in data is the understanding of how economic reasoning
suffuses almost every aspect of our lives. The economic lens can
be very helpful in parsing strategic interactions, the causes of
discrimination, patterns of marriage and divorce, and how our
political machinery operates.  The incursions of economists into new areas have not always
been welcomed by our sister social sciences. But it has been a
two-way street: Sociology, political science and psychology have
come to play an important role in economic analysis -- as the
 awarding of the Nobel Prize  in Economics to Kahneman, a
psychologist, demonstrates.  This narrative of progress may be unsatisfying to those who
expected renewed humility after the financial crisis.
Undoubtedly, it has been an embarrassing few years for the
economics profession. Many economists have resorted to very
public soul-searching. Others, such as  Paul Krugman , offer a
narrative in which the field is actually regressing.  Ours is a different story. Technological change has brought
opportunities to do economics in a way that our predecessors
could only have dreamed about. Those opportunities have, in
turn, yielded a field that is more connected to reality. Our
hope is that these insights will improve our understanding of
the economy and give us a better shot at avoiding the next
crisis.  (Betsey Stevenson is an associate professor of public
policy at the  University of Michigan . Justin Wolfers is an
associate professor of business and public policy at the
 University of Pennsylvania , and a non-resident senior fellow of
the  Brookings Institution . Both are Bloomberg View columnists.
The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how governments should brace
for  rising sea levels  and on  Knight Capital and computerized
trading ;  Mark Buchanan  on  using Google to find risky banks ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on  anti-Semitism in Egypt ; William Pesek on
 rebuilding the tsunami zone  with microfinance;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
improving  political TV shows ; Richard Cohen on  whether fourth is
good enough  at the Olympics; Caleb Scharf on how  massive black
holes  regulate star creation.  To contact the writers of this article:
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@wharton.upenn.edu 
 Justin Wolfers  at  jwolfers@wharton.upenn.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  