-- HCA Says Heart Procedures in Florida Scrutinized by U.S.
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-08-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/hca-profit-increases-as-admissions-defy-hospital-industry-slump.html
A U.S. attorney in Miami has asked
 HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the nation’s biggest hospital operator, for
information on the “medical necessity” of the cardiac
procedures done in its  Florida  hospitals, according to a
regulatory filing.  The disclosure came as the  New York  Times reported that
Nashville, Tennessee-based HCA had investigated numerous cases 
in which doctors conducted unnecessary surgeries in its
facilities, and didn’t contact patients, medical authorities or
insurers about the results of those probes.  The Times story, released yesterday on its website, said 
the paper reviewed thousands of pages of internal documents and 
interviewed doctors and others. “The problems at HCA went beyond 
a rogue doctor or two,” the Times wrote, though it didn’t give a
specific number of possible cases. HCA fell 4 percent to $25.55
at yesterday’s close of New York  trading .  “I think we have to look at it seriously” in weighing the
potential risk for the company, said  Sheryl Skolnick , a CRT
Capital Group LLC analyst in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , in a
telephone interview.  The U.S. Attorney’s request is part of a heightened federal
government push against alleged health-care fraud. In the last
month alone,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and Teva
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. all announced actions by the U.S.  J&J, Teva  J&J, of  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , said in an Aug. 2 filing
that it had received requests for information on the marketing
of Doribax, an antibiotic, and the Relieva Stratus MicroFlow
Spacer, a medical device used for sinus conditions. On Aug. 3,
Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva said it received a subpoena from
the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with a
Latin America bribery probe. On July 5, London-based Glaxo
pleaded guilty to illegally promoting drugs in a $3 billion deal
with the  Justice Department .  HCA owns  160 hospitals  and 110 surgery centers. Its chief
executive officer, Richard M. Bracken, declined to answer
questions about the legal probe or the Times article during a
conference call with analysts yesterday after the company
released its second-quarter earnings report.  Bracken said on the call that the Times may be preparing
more than one story about the company and that the newspaper had
also asked about wound-care practices, treatment of uninsured
patients and emergency-room procedures. Ed Fishbough, an HCA
spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking
comment on the newspaper’s story.  Clogged Arteries  Interventional cardiology includes procedures such as the
implantation of metal stents or balloons to open clogged
arteries as well as tests for heart disorders. Procedures to
treat cardiac illness and strokes are among the biggest revenue
sources for HCA, as they are at most hospitals, Skolnick said.  The Times said documents and interviews found evidence that
cardiologists at HCA’s hospitals were performing procedures they
couldn’t justify as far back as 2002 and as recently as late
2010, sometimes causing injury and extended hospitalizations for
patients.  Half of the cardiac catheterizations performed at one
Florida hospital, 1,200 procedures in all, were done on patients
without significant  heart disease , the Times said, citing a
company memo. At another hospital, 43 percent of 355
angioplasties to open clogged arteries were “outside reasonable
and expected medical practice,” the newspaper said, citing
another memo from 2004.  While the hospital notified authorities of the suspected
overuse in at least one case, others weren’t reported, and the
hospital company refused to say whether it had told the
government, insurers or patients who may have been placed at
risk, the Times said.  HCA Defense  In an unsigned  statement  posted yesterday on its website
before the Times published its story, HCA defended its
cardiology practices.  “These physician-driven decisions have been and are the
subject of much debate within the cardiology community,” HCA
said. “Accordingly, there is variation across the country,
between regions, within regions, and even within the same
medical staff or medical group regarding this issue.”  The rate of some cardiac procedures has declined at HCA
hospitals over the past decade, the company said in the
statement.  The newspaper also provided the company with examples where
it asserts “individual patients may have had adverse outcomes
from the care they received at HCA-affiliated facilities,”
according to the statement.  The company said there were about 20 million visits to its
 facilities  last year and “we deeply regret any adverse
occurrences to even one of our patients. HCA-affiliated
physicians and employees strive to provide the highest quality
care and minimize adverse outcomes.”  ‘Medical Necessity’  The Justice Department “requested information on reviews
assessing the medical necessity of interventional cardiology
services provided at any company facility (other than peer
reviews),” HCA said. An early look found information on such
reviews at about 10 hospitals, mostly in Florida, the company
said in the filing.  “At this time, we cannot predict what effect, if any, the
request or any resulting claims, including any potential claims
under the federal  False Claims Act , other statutes, regulations
or laws, could have on the company,” HCA said.  Alicia Valle, special counsel to Wilfredo Ferrer, the U.S.
attorney in Miami, didn’t respond to a telephone message seeking
comment.  Earnings Report  The probe and newspaper coverage overshadowed generally
good earnings, CRT’s Skolnick said. Second-quarter  net income 
increased 71 percent to $391 million, or 85 cents a share, from
$229 million, or 43 cents, a year earlier, the company said
today. Revenue rose 12 percent to $8.11 billion, boosted by the
company’s $1.45 billion buyout last year of a partner’s stake in
the Denver-based HealthOne hospital system.  Same-facility inpatient admissions rose 2.5 percent from a
year earlier, the company said. Equivalent admissions, which
also include outpatient visits, gained 3.9 percent.  As of April 1, Boston-based Bain Capital LLC held 20
percent of HCA’s outstanding shares, worth about $2.2 billion,
and was the company’s biggest shareholder. The hospital company
was taken public last year by an investment group led by Bain
and New York-based  KKR & Co. (KKR)  in an initial offering that raised
$3.79 billion. Alex Stanton, a Bain spokesman, didn’t return a
call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  