-- Canada Natural Gas Advances on Forecasts for Hot U.S. Weather
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2012-08-06T19:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/canada-natural-gas-advances-on-forecasts-for-hot-u-s-weather.html
Canadian natural gas climbed on
forecasts of hotter-than-normal weather in the U.S. that may
boost demand for imports of the fuel for  power plants .  September gas in Alberta  gained 2.1 percent as Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland , predicted normal or
above-normal temperatures in the lower 48 states through Aug.
20. The high in New York on Aug. 9 may be 88 degrees Fahrenheit
(31 Celsius), 4 higher than the usual reading, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania.  “The weather is still a factor,” said Dominick
Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy Management Institute
in New York. “This forecast will result in above-normal demand
for natural gas for cooling, but not at the same level
experienced for the last several months.”  Alberta gas for September delivery rose 4.5 cents to C$2.18
per gigajoule ($2.07 per million British thermal units) as of
3:10 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet market. Gas
traded on the exchange is shipped to users in Canada and the
U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for September delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  advanced 3.1 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
settle at $2.908 per million Btu. The futures have declined 2.7
percent this year.  Weather Outlook  Cooling demand in the U.S. may be 17 percent above normal
on Aug. 9, said Weather Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri .  The high in Houston on Aug. 9 may be 96 degrees, 3 above
normal, according to AccuWeather. Electricity producers account
for about 36 percent of U.S. gas consumption, Energy Department
data show.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.1 billion cubic
feet at 2 p.m. New York time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 1.95 billion cubic feet
at Empress,  Alberta , where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 2.02 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 6 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 2.01 billion cubic feet today, compared with the
estimated capacity of 2.02 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy ’s British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.88
billion cubic feet at 3:05 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  