-- McCain Joins Rice as Featured Speakers at Convention
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-08-06T17:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/mccain-joins-rice-as-featured-speakers-at-convention.html
Senator  John McCain , the 2008
Republican nominee for president, and former Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice will be among the featured speakers at the
Republican National Convention in Tampa, Florida, the party
announced in a statement.  Other speakers at the Aug. 27-30 convention, where former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney will officially become the
party’s presidential nominee, include Governors Nikki Haley of
South Carolina, John Kasich of Ohio,  Susana Martinez  of New
Mexico and  Rick Scott  of Florida and former Arkansas Governor
Mike Huckabee.  Absent from the list was New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a frequent Romney surrogate campaigner who is
sometimes mentioned by party members as potential vice
presidential candidate.  “I have no further clarity on my role, if any,” Christie
told reporters today in Middlesex, New Jersey. He said he would
be voting for Romney as a delegate and offered to take other
assignments “if Governor Romney has some role he wants me to
play.”  “He hasn’t asked me yet, and when he asks me I’ll decide
whether I can do what he asks or not,” Christie said.  In the news release, Republican National Committee Chairman
Reince Priebus described the convention speakers as “some of
our party’s brightest stars.”  Romney hasn’t named his vice presidential running mate.
Along with Christie, the list of possibilities includes former
Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty, Ohio Senator Rob Portman,
Florida Senator Marco Rubio, New Hampshire Senator  Kelly Ayotte ,
Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell, Representative Paul Ryan of
Wisconsin and Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  