-- Cesp Aging-Asset Costs Rise on Brazilian Government Rule
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-08-06T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/cesp-aging-asset-costs-rise-on-brazilian-government-rule.html
Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo , the
state electricity utility, is letting its assets age faster than
any other company in  Brazil  as it awaits a government decision
on whether power-generation contracts will be renewed.  Depreciation costs at Cesp, as the Sao Paulo-based utility
is known, topped capital expenditures by 635 million reais ($313
million) last year, signaling the utility isn’t investing to
maintain and expand its hydroelectric plants and distribution
networks, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Cesp and airline Gol
Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA are the only two companies listed
on the Bovespa index whose investments have trailed depreciation
in each of the past three years.  Sao Paulo state, which controls Cesp with 94 percent of
ordinary shares, has postponed plans to sell a stake in the
utility at least three times as the federal government decides
whether to renew operating concessions or hold new auctions to
drive down electricity prices in Brazil. Two-thirds of Cesp’s
operating licenses are set to expire in 2015, accounting for 90
percent of its revenue.  “They don’t know what’s going to happen after 2015,”
Eduardo Gomide, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, which rates the
stock neutral, said in a July 27 telephone interview from  Sao
Paulo . “For Cesp it makes sense. It’s a cautious move. There’s
a reason behind this conservative management.”  Cesp rose 1.1 percent to 36.64 reais on Aug. 3 in Sao Paulo
trading, bringing its gain in the past year to 22 percent.
Cesp’s 28 percent total return in the past year is the highest
among its  peers  in Brazil after Duke Energy International
Geracao Paranapanema SA’s 79 percent and AES Tiete SA’s 29
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Renewal Outlook  Cesp shares are outperforming peers on speculation that the
renewal will be announced soon, Ricardo Correa, an analyst at
Ativa SA, said in a telephone interview from Rio de Janeiro.
Correa rates the stock hold.  “The extension is very likely to occur and the market is
taking that view,” Correa said.  Capital expenditures  may be low
at Cesp because the company already has “mature” assets and
doesn’t need to invest heavily, he said.  Brazil’s government, which missed a deadline to rule on the
concessions in June, probably will extend the licenses for 20
years in exchange for lower electricity rates, Energy Minister
Edison Lobao told reporters on July 26. The government will
present the proposal, which may include a plan to eliminate some
fees and lower taxes, to industry executives in a meeting
tomorrow, he said at the time.  Cesp’s press office didn’t respond to e-mailed requests for
comment. The Energy Ministry declined to comment and wouldn’t
confirm if the meeting will still take place.  Eletrobras, Cemig  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , known as Eletrobras;
Cia. Energetica de  Minas Gerais , or Cemig; and Cia. Paranaense
de Energia, or Copel, also have concessions set to expire in
2015.  The renewals are more important for Cesp because the
concessions represent more of the utility’s installed generating
capacity, Gomide said. Expiring licenses account for 67 percent
of Cesp’s capacity, compared with 46 percent for Eletrobras, 15
percent for Cemig and 6 percent for Copel.  Eletrobras has declined 9.6 percent in the past year, while
Cemig is up 72 percent and Copel has risen 15 percent.  Cesp is probably also holding back on investments as it
seeks to sell a stake, said Marcos Severine, head of utilities
research at Banco Itau BBA SA in Sao Paulo.  The Sao Paulo government “doesn’t seem to see the sense in
investing in assets that will be privatized,” Severine said in
a telephone interview.  Canceled Sale  Sao Paulo’s state government unsuccessfully tried to sell
its stake in Cesp three times since 2000. The last attempt was
in 2008, when it canceled an auction after failing to attract
bidders because the federal government hadn’t said if it would
renew licenses. Chief Executive Officer Mauro Arce said in
January that Cesp was awaiting the renewals before deciding on
whether to sell its stake.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  has said she wants to
lower electricity rates as part of efforts to spur the economy.
Her government has enacted a series of measures in recent
months, including lowering borrowing costs, cutting taxes and
auctioning concessions for public infrastructure such as
airports.  Brazil’s electricity is among the world’s most expensive,
the Rio de Janeiro Industrial Federation, known as Firjan, said
in a  report  last week. Prices for industrial users average 329
reais per megawatt hour, compared with 142.40 reais in  China  and
124.70 reais in the U.S., the report said.  ‘Inexcusable’ Delay  Delays in renewing concessions make it more difficult to
tap funding for investments, said Elena Landau, an attorney who
specializes in energy and participated in Brazil’s privatization
process in the 1990s as director for asset sales at the BNDES
state development bank.  “The government’s delay in deciding on concession renewals
is inexcusable,” Landau said in a telephone interview from Rio.
“I don’t know if it makes investments impossible, but it makes
it more difficult, because there isn’t a clear outlook for
contracts that companies could use as collateral for
financing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at   jattwood3@bloomberg.net  