-- Chesapeake Shares Soar 11% After Record Quarterly Profit
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-08-07T20:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/chesapeake-net-income-rises-as-asset-sales-offset-lower-p.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second-
largest U.S. natural-gas producer, soared after reporting the
highest quarterly profit in company history and boosting its
asset-sales target to avoid a funding shortfall.  Chesapeake climbed 9.4 percent to $19.37 at the close in
 New York , the biggest increase since March 2009. Second-quarter
net income rose 91 percent to $972 million, or $1.29 a share,
from $510 million, or 68 cents, a year earlier, the Oklahoma
City-based company said in a statement yesterday.  Chesapeake increased the minimum it plans to raise through
asset sales this year to $13 billion from $11.5 billion, and
said more than half of that will come by the end of next month
when it completes  Texas  oilfield sales. The company boosted its
full-year production estimate owing to discoveries in Texas and
 Ohio  and said the danger of outspending  cash flow  next year has
abated. Oil output from Chesapeake’s wells soared 88 percent
from a year earlier.  “It was a positive quarter but the bar was set pretty
low,”  Mark Hanson , an equity analyst at Morningstar Investment
Services in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “I’d give
it a B-plus. The market’s going to give them some credit for
this, though they’ve still got a long way to go.”  Excluding gains from the sale of a pipeline and storage
subsidiary and other one-time items, Chesapeake earned 6 cents a
share, 2 cents less than the  average  of 31 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Oil Revenue  Sales rose 2.1 percent to $3.39 billion. The proportion of
revenue generated by oil and gas liquid byproducts such as
ethane more than doubled to 60 percent from a year earlier, even
as the company’s gas output increased by one-fourth.  Derivative financial instruments linked to oil, gas,
interest rates and gas byproducts contributed $490 million in
unrealized, non-cash, after-tax gains to second-quarter results,
Chesapeake said.  The company said it is negotiating sales agreements on its
Permian Basin oilfield assets in Texas and  New Mexico , which
will be divided into three packages. EnerVest Ltd., based in
Houston, has agreed to buy one of the packages, Chesapeake said,
without disclosing a price. The Permian transactions and other
unspecified deals will be completed by the end of September for
total proceeds of $7 billion, the company said.  That would bring total asset sales for the year to $11.7
billion, still short of the company’s goal to sell $13 billion
to $14 billion in 2012, according to the statement.  Goldman, Jefferies  Some of the Permian fields Chesapeake offered for sale
found no takers and will be marketed again once the three
pending sales are completed, Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  said during a conference call with analysts today. He
didn’t say how much acreage was involved.  Cash generated by the asset sales will be used to pay back
a $4 billion bridge loan obtained in May from  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , and to reduce outstanding
debt to $9.5 billion in early January, according to the
statement.  Chesapeake lost one-fifth of its market value this year as
the impact of tumbling gas prices was compounded by disclosures
that McClendon borrowed more than $800 million last year to
finance his stakes in thousands of company-owned oil and gas
wells.  McClendon was stripped of the chairman’s role in June and
more than half the board was replaced at the insistence of
Chesapeake’s largest investors, Southeastern Asset Management
Inc. and  Carl Icahn .  Founding Partner  The board is conducting an investigation, begun April 26,
of McClendon’s personal borrowings from some of the company’s
biggest financiers. Chesapeake hasn’t said when the board will
finish the internal inquiry. Probes also are under way at the
 Internal Revenue Service  and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  McClendon, 53, co-founded Chesapeake in 1989 with 10
employees and $50,000 in cash, building the company into the
largest U.S. gas producer by embracing intensive drilling
techniques overlooked by major international energy explorers.
Chesapeake remained the top U.S. gas supplier until June 2010,
when  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  acquired XTO Energy.  Gas futures traded in New York plunged 46 percent to $2.354
per million British thermal units, the lowest second-quarter
average in 13 years. U.S.  gas production  rose 4.4 percent in May
from a year earlier to the highest since at least 1973, Energy
Department figures showed. Gas output has continued to climb as
explorers accelerated efforts to harvest byproducts such as
ethane, a plastics ingredient that commands higher prices.  Ethane Slump  McClendon’s effort to shift Chesapeake’s production away
from gas and more heavily toward liquid byproducts such as
ethane and propane has been undercut by a growing glut of gas
liquids from shale formations in Texas and  Pennsylvania .  Ethane, a hydrocarbon that is stripped out of the gas
stream before the fuel is pumped into pipelines, averaged 40
cents a gallon during the second quarter, 48 percent less than a
year earlier. Ethane reached a 3-year high of 95 cents a gallon
as recently as October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chesapeake’s second-quarter production climbed 25 percent
to the equivalent of 3.81 billion cubic feet of gas a day,
according to the statement. McClendon increased production
targets for this year and next.  The full-year 2012 target was raised to as much as 1.428
trillion cubic feet of gas equivalent from a July 16 estimate of
1.318 trillion. For next year, the company expects to pump as
much as 1.454 trillion cubic feet, up from last month’s estimate
of 1.364 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  