-- Chidambaram Pledges Indian Fiscal Plan in Bid to Lure Investment
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-08-06T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/chidambaram-pledges-indian-fiscal-plan-in-bid-to-lure-investment.html
Indian Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said he will unveil steps for fiscal consolidation
and clarify tax laws, as he seeks to revive investment in an
economy growing at the weakest pace in almost a decade.  “The economy is challenged by a number of factors,”
Chidambaram said in his first statement in  New Delhi  yesterday
since his appointment last week. “Uppermost in my mind is the
duty to regain the confidence of all stakeholders. We intend to
unveil, shortly, a path of fiscal consolidation.”  Chidambaram faces the task of rejuvenating the economy as
elevated  inflation  saps growth and political gridlock deters
investment, with a weak monsoon and a slump in the rupee further
dimming the outlook. Policies will be “fine-tuned” to assist
capital inflows, he said, adding “corrective measures” will be
taken on tax laws where necessary.  “These are all positive statements and hint at several
measures which he is likely to take,” said  Anubhuti Sahay , an
economist at Standard Chartered Plc in Mumbai. “Market
sentiment would, however, depend on the actual actions which
follow these statements.”  Chidambaram said he has ordered a review of provisions
allowing the retrospective taxation of overseas deals in which
an Indian asset is transferred. That measure, and a planned
clampdown on  tax avoidance  due next year, have stoked concern
that the climate for investors is deteriorating.  Rupee, Stocks  The rupee rose 0.4 percent to 55.5225 per dollar at the 5
p.m. close in Mumbai yesterday. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of
stocks climbed 1.3 percent, while the yield on the 8.15 percent
bond due June 2022 declined to 8.22 percent from 8.26 percent
last week. The currency has plunged about 19 percent in the past
year as growth slowed and  Europe ’s debt crisis damped demand for
emerging-market assets.  A panel has been established to help the government in
“formulating the path of fiscal consolidation” and is expected
to complete its work in a few weeks, he said. The government’s
goal is to boost investment back to the level of 38 percent of
gross domestic product, he added.  Indian GDP increased 5.3 percent in the first quarter from
a year earlier, the least since 2003. Inflation, stoked by food
costs, has exceeded 7 percent for most of 2012, the fastest pace
among the world’s biggest  emerging markets .  The nation also projects record borrowing of 5.69 trillion
rupees ($102 billion) to plug a targeted budget shortfall of 5.1
percent of GDP in the year that began April 1.  Working With RBI  Chidambaram said fiscal and monetary policies must “move
in tandem” and that the government will work with the  Reserve
Bank  of  India  to curb inflation, including tackling supply-side
constraints and using stocks of grain to contain food prices.  The Reserve Bank left  interest rates  unchanged at 8 percent
on July 31 for a second meeting, citing inflation risks
including the weaker rupee, the impact of below-average rains on
crops and the possible increase of subsidized fuel prices.  “We are conscious that current  interest rates  are high,”
the finance minister said yesterday. “Sometimes it is necessary
to take carefully calibrated risks in order to stimulate
investment and to ease the burden on consumers. We will take
appropriate steps in this regard.”  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have cited risks such
as the fiscal deficit in warning they may strip  Asia ’s third-
largest economy of its investment-grade  credit rating .  Moody’s Investors Service has said power blackouts last
week, India’s worst, underscore infrastructure gaps and have a
“credit negative effect” on economic activity.  “The key to restart the growth engine is to attract more
investment, both from domestic investors and foreign
investors,” Chidambaram said, adding “we must remove any
apprehension or distrust” they may have.  He said decisions will be announced in the next few weeks
to boost investment through mutual funds and insurance policies.  Chidambaram, 66, became finance minister for the third time
on July 31. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is trying to end
legislative gridlock that has undermined his development agenda.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  