-- Chile Economy Beat Estimates as Shoppers Ignore Global Woes
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-08-06T15:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/chile-economy-beat-estimates-as-shoppers-ignore-global-woes-2-.html
Chile ’s economy grew at the fastest
pace in four months in June as local demand showed few signs of
contagion from abroad, cementing estimates that policy makers
will continue to buck a regional trend of interest rate cuts.  The economy expanded 6.2 percent in June from last year,
exceeding by half a percentage point the highest estimates made
by 14 analysts polled by Bloomberg. The  Imacec index , a proxy
for gross domestic product, increased 0.4 percent from the
previous month on a seasonally adjusted basis, the central bank
said in a report posted on its website today.  Retail sales continue to drive growth as shoppers shrug off
concern that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and  China ’s
deceleration will damage Chile’s labor market. While industrial
production has grown at a slower pace, companies may increase
output as evidence mounts that internal demand remains strong,
economist Felipe Alarcon said by phone from Santiago.  “This cycle of consumption and retail still is sustainable
so long as it doesn’t generate strong inflationary pressures,”
said Alarcon, deputy director of research at  Banco de Credito e
Inversiones. (BCI)  “This for now drives away any fear of contagion
and also makes it less likely the central bank will try to
reduce rates in at least its next meeting.”  Policy makers have kept borrowing costs unchanged for six
months at 5 percent, which along with  Colombia ’s is the highest
benchmark among rate-setting countries in  Latin America  behind
 Brazil .  Monetary Policy  While Brazil and Colombia reduced borrowing costs in their
last meetings to stimulate growth, Chile will keep rates
unchanged in August, according to the median estimate of 57
traders and investors surveyed by the central bank on July 24.  Still, policy makers will cut borrowing costs to 4.75
percent by November on estimates the economy will start to
decelerate, according to the poll. The one-year interest rate
swap, which reflects traders’ views of average borrowing costs,
rose five basis points to 4.90 percent at 10:07 a.m. local time
from 4.85 percent Aug. 3.  The government also has $15 billion in a sovereign wealth
fund it can tap to stimulate investment and employment if a
global slowdown reduces demand for Chilean exports, President
Sebastian Pinera said in an interview in June.  “Chile is uniquely positioned among Latin American
countries as it can easily resort to both fiscal and  monetary
policy  tools, if necessary,” Standard Chartered Bank analysts
Bret Rosen and Italo Lombardi wrote last week in a report e-
mailed to investors. “As a particularly open economy, Chile is
especially vulnerable to a global slowdown.”  Growth Outlook  Economic growth will ease this year, with GDP expanding 4
percent to 5 percent after climbing 6 percent in 2011, according
to central bank forecasts. The average price of copper, Chile’s
leading export, will fall 11 percent from last year to $3.55 a
pound in 2012, policy makers said in their latest estimates
published in June.  The economy had showed signs of deceleration with GDP
expanding 5.6 percent in the first quarter from last year and
5.4 percent in the second, according to calculations made by
Bloomberg based on Imacec data.  Retail sales  soared 9.5 percent
in the first quarter from last year and 7.2 percent in the
second, according to the National Statistics Institute.  Unemployment fell to 6.6 percent in the three months
through June from 6.7 percent through May after opening 2012 at
6.6 percent. Manufacturing output expanded 1.1 percent in June
and 2.2 percent in the previous month, the institute said last
week. Inflation has slowed for four straight months, reaching
2.7 percent in June.  “We don’t see significant risks of inflationary pressures
even though the economy is dynamic,” Finance Minister Felipe Larrain, a non-voting participant of central bank meetings, said
in a speech televised live today. “That doesn’t mean we can
abandon the important posture we’ve adopted, with the central
bank and the government making their contributions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 