-- China Vanke First-Half Profit Gains 25% After Price Cuts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-07T08:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/china-vanke-first-half-profit-rise-25-as-price-cuts-boost-sales.html
China Vanke Co. (3333) , the biggest
developer by market value traded on the nation’s exchanges, said
first-half profit climbed 25 percent as the company cut prices
to boost sales amid government controls.  Net income  increased to 3.73 billion yuan ($585 million),
or 0.34 yuan a share, from 2.98 billion yuan, or 0.27 yuan, a
year earlier, the company said in a Shenzhen stock exchange
filing yesterday. Revenue gained 54 percent to 30.72 billion
yuan. The shares rose.  “Big companies such as Vanke tend to do better in
downturns because they’re better at marketing,” Jack Gong, a
Hong Kong-based property analyst at Jefferies Group Inc., said
before the earnings announcement. “The general outlook for the
 property market  is still tightening with some room for fine-
tuning of policies.”  Chinese developers have been cutting prices to boost sales
volumes amid curbs the government has maintained for more than
two years to cool the real estate market. They include raising
down-payment and mortgage requirements, imposing property taxes
for the first time in Shanghai and Chongqing, increasing
building of low-cost social housing, and implementing home-
purchase restrictions in about 40 cities.  Gross Margin  The  stock  rose 0.8 percent to 8.83 yuan at the close of
trading in Shenzhen. That was compared with a 0.1 percent gain
in the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) , which tracks the 300 most valuable stocks
listed in  Shanghai  and Shenzhen.  “Although the earnings were up, it’s lagging behind the
revenue growth,” Jinsong Du, a Credit Suisse Group AG property
analyst, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Shanghai
today. “That means the margins have come down. The market
probably took it as a surprise.”  Gross margin fell by 5.6 percentage points to 26.5 percent
in the first half from the same period last year, the company
reported yesterday.  Average prices for Vanke’s homes fell 10.6 percent to
10,380 yuan in the first half from last year, the company said
in a separate e-mailed statement yesterday.  The developer’s contracted sales this year will exceed last
year because it will start selling more projects in the fourth
quarter, Board Secretary Tan Huajie said in the statement.  Contracted Sales  The company’s contracted sales value, based on bookings of
apartments before they are built, fell 1.6 percent to 72.9
billion  yuan  in the first seven months from a year earlier.
Sales volume rose 9.6 percent from the same period last year to
7 million square meters (75 million square feet).  “We launched fewer projects in the first half than a year
ago, but with reasonable sales strategy, the company still held
up rising sales volume,” Tan said in the statement.  Vanke said in May that it will pay HK$1.08 billion ($139
million) for a 74 percent stake in Hong Kong-traded Winsor
Properties Holdings Ltd. to expand overseas.  The main purpose of the purchase is “a trial for global
expansion, a long-term direction of growth” for Vanke, the
company said at the time. It will set up a foreign-business unit
in  Hong Kong  in the second half, according to a posting on June
15 on its official microblog, citing President Yu Liang.  Vanke, the first among  China ’s biggest developers to report
first-half earnings, had 47 billion yuan of cash by the end of
June, up 37 percent from the beginning of the year.  “Vanke will closely monitor the opportunities in the land
market in the second half, but we’ll not relax our investment
standard,” Tan said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  