-- City-Town Returns Beat States for 7 Straight Months: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-08-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/city-town-returns-beat-states-for-7-straight-months-muni-credit.html
U.S. local-government tax revenue has
fallen for six straight quarters and states are trimming aid to
municipalities. That hasn’t deterred investors from pushing debt
of cities and towns to the longest rally in five years.  With  interest rates  in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond
market at their lowest since the 1960s, the quest for yield is
masking municipalities’ fiscal strains just months before
potential federal spending cuts may sap local finances.  “You’ve had a tug-of-war between safety and the need for
extra yield,” said  John Donaldson , who helps manage about $700
million of munis as director of fixed income at Radnor,
Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust Co. “The need for extra
yield has been winning that tug-of-war.”  Debt of localities earned 1.6 percent in July, beating the
1.3 percent gain for state securities, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show. It was the seventh consecutive month where
local debt came out ahead, the longest stretch since 2007.  States and municipalities are still suffering from the 18-
month recession that ended in June 2009. Three California
municipalities have filed for bankruptcy since June.  Local property taxes, which help finance education, police
and firefighting, fell 0.9 percent in the first quarter from the
same period last year, according to a report from the Nelson A.
 Rockefeller Institute  of Government in  Albany , New York. Total
local collections fell a sixth straight quarter.  Yield Dive  Concern that European leaders would fail to contain their
debt crisis helped push yields on 20-year general-obligations to
 3.61 percent  last month, close to a 45-year low set in January,
according to a Bond Buyer index.  As yields dove, investors became more willing to stomach
the added risk of local borrowings. Debt of cities and towns
yields 3 percent on average, about 0.6 percentage point more
than state bonds, according to Bank of America data.  A local issue in  Pennsylvania  last month shows the extra
yield available for similar credits.  The Monroeville Finance Authority, which helps finance
hospitals and health-care facilities, sold about $356 million of
tax-exempt revenue debt in mid-July with an Aa3 rating, Moody’s
Investors Service’s fourth-highest grade. The issue was on
behalf of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. Ten-year
bonds were priced to yield 2.55 percent. That was 0.75
percentage point more than 10-year general obligations that
Pennsylvania, rated one level higher, sold the following week,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Aid Cuts  States have reduced local aid as they closed a cumulative
$500 billion of budget deficits in the past four years. In the
case of New York, since fiscal 2009 the state has cut aid to
municipalities by $50 million, or 7 percent, according to
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli .  Cities and towns may face additional pressure from the so-
called fiscal cliff, which would amount to more than $600
billion in tax increases and cuts in government programs next
year unless Congress acts. The  Congressional Budget Office  in
May said an economic loss of that size would probably lead to a
recession.  Localities may not have much more room to trim expenses,
heightening the risk to those issuers if the economy does
contract, said Chris Mauro at RBC Capital Markets LLC.  RBC forecasts the chances of a contraction in the next 12
months at 30 percent to 35 percent, said Jacob Oubina, senior
U.S. economist in New York for  Canada ’s largest lender by
assets.  Excluding education,  local payrolls  rose the past five
months, the longest stretch of increases since 2008. For Mauro,
that signals cities and towns may have reached the limit of
worker cuts.  “Localities are the most vulnerable, we believe, of the
sectors in the muni market to another recession,” said Mauro,
RBC’s head U.S. municipal strategist.  Following are pending sales:  SAN FRANCISCO is set to sell $290 million of general-
obligation debt through competitive bid as soon as Aug. 14, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Fitch Ratings grades the bonds AA-,
fourth-highest. (Added Aug. 6)  CHICAGO plans to issue about $1.2 billion of revenue bonds
for O’Hare International Airport to refinance debt, according to
bond documents. About $729 million of the offer will consist of
general airport senior-lien revenue debt, set to price as soon
as Aug. 8, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Moody’s last month
downgraded O’Hare general-revenue bonds one level to A2, its
sixth-highest grade. In another segment of the deal, the city
will issue $443.3 million of passenger-facility charge revenue
bonds. Moody’s rates that sale A2. (Updated Aug. 6)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  