-- Clegg Retaliates After U.K. Tories Derail Lords Overhaul
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-08-06T15:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/clegg-retaliates-after-cameron-s-tories-derail-lords-overhaul.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
said he will order his Liberal Democrat lawmakers to block
legislation wanted by the Conservatives after Tory rebels
derailed plans to overhaul the House of Lords.  Clegg said the Conservatives had “broken the contract”
between the coalition partners as he confirmed the government
has abandoned attempts to reform the 700-year-old upper chamber
of Parliament until at least 2015. The  Liberal Democrats  will
respond by opposing plans to redraw parliamentary boundaries
that may help the Tories at the next general election, he said.  The move plunges relations between the two parties to the
lowest ebb since they came to power two years ago and will raise
fresh doubts over whether the alliance can survive until 2015.
For many Liberal Democrats, the introduction of a mainly elected
House of Lords as a priority.  “Clearly I cannot permit a situation where Conservative
rebels can pick and choose the parts of the contract they like,
while Liberal Democrat MPs are bound to the entire agreement,”
Clegg told a press conference in  London  today.  He said Prime MinisterDavid Cameron had failed to win
round Conservative rebels who voted along with the opposition
 Labour Party  against fast-tracking the legislation last month.
Without a new agreement to limit the amount of time spent
debating the bill, it had no chance of success, he said.  ‘Slow Death’  “It is obvious that the bill’s opponents would now seek
to inflict on it a slow death: ensuring Lords reform consumes an
unacceptable amount of parliamentary time,” he said. “Clearly,
it would be wrong for me to allow Parliament to be manipulated
in this way, not least at a time when there is so much else for
us to concentrate on.”  Abandoning the bill is a further blow for Clegg, who in
2011 lost a referendum to change the voting system in general
elections. He will face voters in 2015 without having delivered
any of the constitutional changes he said he’d introduce in the
2010 coalition negotiations.  Cameron has been seeking to get the government back on
track after being forced to abandon several of the tax-raising
proposals announced in the March budget following a popular
backlash and months of poor economic news.  The government had been planning to put a new timetable
Motion on the Lords bill to lawmakers after they returned from
the parliamentary recess in October, giving time to win over
opponents. Last month’s rebellion saw almost a third of
Conservative lawmakers vote against the motion, the biggest
revolt since the coalition government came to power in May 2010.  Carrying On  Clegg dismissed suggestions the rift could cause the
coalition to collapse before the next election, saying the
overriding priority of both parties is to reduce the  budget
deficit  and pull the economy out the recession.  The  House of Lords Reform Bill  involved replacing the
current 816-member chamber, made up of political appointees,
hereditary nobility and Church of  England  bishops, with a
smaller chamber of mainly elected members serving a single 15-
year term. The bill would reduce the size of the chamber by
almost a half.  Conservative opponents say an elected second chamber will
challenge the primacy of the Commons, the lower house. The
opposition Labour Party said it supported the legislation in
principle, but wanted more time to scrutinize it. Critics on
both sides said Lords reform should not be a priority at a time
when the economy is in recession.  ‘Finished’  For the Conservatives, Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  said
Clegg’s decision is “disappointing,” but there “isn’t a
cigarette paper” between the two parties in their determination
get the economy moving again.  Other Conservative lawmakers expressed anger at the Liberal
Democrat threat. “Apart from keeping ministers in office, what
is the coalition now for?” Douglas Carswell wrote on his
Twitter account. His Tory colleague, Stewart Jackson, wrote that
the coalition would be “finished” if the Liberal Democrats
voted down boundary changes.  Clegg, asked by reporters about relations with Cameron,
replied they are “fine, thank you very much.” He compared the
breach of the coalition agreement to the breaking of a business
deal and said his relationship with Cameron is “amicable.”  “It’s a sad day, but it’s the Tories’ fault, not ours,”
Liberal Democrat party president,  Simon Hughes , told  Sky News .
“I’m angry but I can’t do anything about it, I have to accept
that, but they then have to accept that they won’t get boundary
changes through until after the next election.”.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  