-- Coeure Says ECB Should Look at Getting Loans Into Real Economy
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2012-08-06T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/coeure-says-ecb-should-look-at-getting-loans-into-real-economy.html
The  European Central Bank  should look
at ways to ensure that its cheap loans reach households and
businesses, Executive Board member Benoit Coeure said.  “Any means to channel ECB liquidity where it is most
needed, namely to households and enterprises, is worth
considering,” Coeure said in an interview with Slovakia’s
Hospodarske Noviny newspaper published by the Frankfurt-based
ECB today. Looking into whether the ECB’s funding operations
should be better targeted to the financing of the real economy,
and particularly of small and medium-sized enterprises, deserves
further thought, “even though the implementation would
obviously be difficult,” he said.  The ECB has lent banks more than 1 trillion euros ($1.24
trillion) for three years at its  benchmark rate , which it cut to
a record low of 0.75 percent last month. So far, there’s little
evidence that banks are lending the cash on. Coeure said the
main reason for that is weak demand for credit, and the full
impact of the loans “will be seen only when the economy
recovers.”  Coeure reiterated ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s Aug. 2
announcement that the central bank may buy  government bonds  to
bring down yields in countries such as Spain and  Italy , and that
further non-standard policy measures are also under
consideration.  He said while the ECB is in close contact with other
central banks “there is no specific need for ‘concerted global
intervention’.”  Asked about plans to create a single banking supervisor for
the euro area under the auspices of the ECB, Coeure said he
favors a system covering all banks “with centralized decision-
making but decentralized implementation, tapping the skills and
knowledge of national supervisory authorities.”  He also said he doesn’t favor saving all banks at any cost,
and that “failed banks should be resolved, with shareholders
taking their fair share of losses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  