-- Cognizant Shares Gain After Company Lifts Profit Forecast
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-08-06T21:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/cognizant-jumps-after-beating-profit-estimate-raising-forecast.html
Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH) ,
a provider of consulting and outsourcing services, rose the most
in almost four years in  New York  after raising its profit
forecast and beating last quarter’s estimates.  Cognizant gained 11 percent to $64.21, the biggest one-day
gain since Dec. 5, 2008. Following the increase, the shares are
now down less than 1 percent in 2012.  The company forecast profit of at least $3.38 a share this
year, according to a statement today. That’s up from a previous
forecast of at least $3.36. Teaneck, New Jersey-based Cognizant
maintained its full-year sales projection of at least $7.34
billion.  Cognizant is gaining revenue as its clients seek savings by
outsourcing tasks to  India  and other lower-cost nations amid a
slowing global economy, Chief Financial Officer Karen McLoughlin
said. The company has also been building an emerging-
technologies business focused on data analysis and mobile
solutions.  “Investments in our consulting practice are really paying
off,” McLoughlin said today in an interview. “In this
environment, it’s a combination of how do they deliver cost and
transform their operating efficiency while thinking about the
future.”  Indian rival  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  lowered its sales forecast and
reported net income that lagged estimates last month, while  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , India’s largest software exporter,
beat net income estimates.  Cognizant’s reiteration of its revenue guidance for the
year is “a relief for some, given mixed earnings reports from
other Indian IT services” peers,  Jason Kupferberg , an analyst
for Jefferies & Co. in New York, said in a research note today.  Second-quarter profit was 82 cents a share, beating the 80-
cent average of 23 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  