-- Congress Has 13 Work Days Until Election for Must-Do Work
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-08-06T15:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/congress-has-13-work-days-until-election-for-must-do-work.html
The U.S. House and Senate, facing a
backlog of unfinished business, are set to be in session
together for 13 days before the Nov. 6 election. Even so,
members plan to do what they have done all year on the biggest
tax and spending decisions: Nothing.  By Oct. 1, Congress needs to pass a stopgap federal
spending bill, renew farm programs and help the U.S.  Postal
Service  pay for retiree health care. Lawmakers left Washington
for a five-week recess without providing drought aid to ranchers
or acting to protect computers against cyberattacks.  Neither Democrats nor Republicans see an advantage in
spending time before the election on averting automatic income
tax increases and the $1.2 trillion in spending cuts that start
taking effect in January. Each side wants to try to improve its
negotiating position depending on which party will occupy the
White House and control the House and the Senate.  “The one thing they keep agreeing on is to postpone big
decisions,” said  Julian Zelizer , a history and public affairs
professor at  Princeton University  in  New Jersey . “It’s easy for
them to agree on that.”  Upon returning to Washington Sept. 10, Congress faces a
Sept. 30 deadline to pass a stopgap measure to fund government
operations for six months, which congressional leaders and
President  Barack Obama  tentatively agreed to last week.  The agreement came after Tea Party-backed Republicans
dropped their demand for less spending than the $1.047 trillion
budget in a 2011 law that raised the federal debt ceiling.  ‘Cloud of Uncertainty’  “The time to pick a fight on a government shutdown is not
now,” said Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican and
co-founder of the chamber’s Tea Party Caucus. “Our country is
under a cloud of uncertainty.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , told
reporters Aug. 2 that there would be “a lot of conversations
over the next five or six weeks” on what Congress will try to
accomplish in September.  As of Aug. 3, Congress had sent 63 bills to Obama for his
signature this year. Many name post offices and convey land
parcels, and most of the rest extend programs lawmakers had
already passed.  The slow pace of legislating mirrors that of 2011, when
lawmakers sent 90 bills to Obama that eventually became law.
Last year’s output barely topped that of 1995, when 88 bills
became law, fewer than at any time since the Congressional
Record started keeping track in 1947.  Messaging Votes  The Republican-controlled House and the Democratic-led
Senate have spent time on so-called messaging votes on measures
that won’t advance in the other chamber. That includes House
Republican bills to repeal all or part of Obama’s 2010 health
care law and Senate Democrats’ plan to set a minimum 30 percent
tax rate for the highest earners.  “Actually getting legislation to the president’s desk
isn’t as high a priority as making a symbolic point,” said  John Pitney , a political scientist at  Claremont McKenna College  in
Claremont,  California . “This is the consequence of split party
control of Congress at a time when the parties are highly
polarized.”  Lawmakers have been staking out their positions on how to
deal with the expiring 2001 and 2003 tax cuts and the spending
reductions set to start next year. The House voted Aug. 1 to
extend the tax cuts for all income levels through 2013, while
the Senate voted July 25 to let the cuts expire for top earners.
Neither proposal has the support of leaders in the other chamber
and probably won’t advance there. House and Senate leaders
aren’t negotiating a compromise.  Food-Stamp Cuts  The House in May passed legislation that would replace
automatic cuts to defense programs, which amount to half of the
$1.2 trillion in cuts, with reductions to domestic programs
including  food stamps . Senate Democratic leaders oppose that
measure.  “I’ve never seen a situation where so many things are
going to pile up” at the end of the year, said Senator  Jon Kyl 
of  Arizona , the chamber’s second-ranking Republican. Kyl has
served in Congress since 1987.  Freshman Representative Tim Huelskamp, a Kansas Republican,
said he’s “concerned” with the “pretty short timetable” in
September. Huelskamp had pressed for adoption of the six-month
spending measure before the recess.  As with the government funding, Congress may end up with
stopgap measures to continue laws that are set to expire.
Boehner acknowledged that House leaders don’t have enough
support to advance a five-year farm bill approved July 12 by the
House Agriculture Committee.  Sept. 30 Expiration  The law authorizing funds for Department of Agriculture
programs, including nutrition and conservation initiatives as
well as  farm subsidies , expires Sept. 30. Though the Senate
passed its version of a five-year farm bill, “the House is
pretty well divided,” Boehner said.  Just before leaving Washington for the recess, the House
passed a measure providing financial aid to livestock producers
affected by the worst drought in a half-century. The Senate
didn’t act on the legislation.  A postal overhaul also may languish. The U.S. Postal
Service said it won’t make a required $5.5 billion payment due
Aug. 1 to the  U.S. Treasury  for future retirees’ health care.  The service has said for months it couldn’t afford that
payment or a $5.6 billion payment required by Sept. 30.  More Employees  The Postal Service, which has more employees than any U.S.-
based publicly traded company other than  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
has said it expects to temporarily run out of cash in October
unless Congress alters or ends the retiree health-care
obligation and lets it make other changes.  Also on the Senate’s September to-do list is a $205.1
billion proposal to renew a group of lapsed or expiring tax
breaks and prevent the expansion of the alternative minimum tax
for 2012 and 2013.  While Congress addresses those matters, the major tax-and-
spending issues will wait, Zelizer said.  In a “minute-by-minute political world, both parties are
waiting to see the outcome of the election,” he said. “They
want to know where the political pressure is, what the election
results are and what’s in their best interest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  