-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Fall as Merkel Supports Bond Buying
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-06T22:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-fall-as-merkel-supports-bond-buying.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
debt risk dropped to a more than 13-week low as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government backed the  European
Central Bank ’s bond-buying plan.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
0.8 basis point to a mid-price of 102.8 basis points, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves, declined after the German government said for the
first time it supports ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s bond-buying
proposals to help lower borrowing costs in Spain and  Italy . The
government is “not worried” by Draghi’s Aug. 2 announcement,
Georg Streiter, Merkel’s deputy spokesman, told reporters in
Berlin today when asked whether the government is concerned that
ECB independence might be compromised.  “Merkel’s commentary plus benign earnings reports seem to
be working for credit investors right now,” said Joel Levington, managing director of corporate credit at Brookfield
Investment Management Inc. in New York.  Two-thirds of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
have reported second-quarter earnings that beat analysts’
estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Increasing Employment  The swaps gauge dropped 5.3 basis points on Aug. 3 after
Labor Department data showed employment increased by 163,000
last month, helped by a pickup at automakers and health-care
providers. The median estimate of 89 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a rise of 100,000.  Part of the decline today was a continuation of positive
sentiment from the jobs report,  Adrian Miller , director of
global markets strategy at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said
in an e-mail.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras must complete an 11.5
billion-euro package of budget cuts for 2013 and 2014 to
maintain access to the nation’s 240 billion euros ($298 billion)
of rescue funds. Representatives from the so-called troika of
the European Commission, European Central Bank and  International
Monetary Fund , which completed almost two weeks of meetings in
 Athens  yesterday, will return in early September.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  