-- Curiosity Rover Lands Safely on Mars After Risky Descent
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-08-06T07:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/curiosity-rover-lands-safely-on-mars-after-risky-descent.html
The U.S. National Aeronautics and
Space Administration’s Curiosity rover landed safely on Mars,
after a 352 million-mile journey and harrowing plunge through
the planet’s atmosphere dubbed “7 Minutes of Terror.”  The vehicle, loaded with the most-sophisticated instruments
ever used off Earth, touched down at 1:32 a.m.  New York  time.
Scientists developed the $2.5 billion mission to help determine
whether Mars has an environment that can support life.  Curiosity landed at a site called  Gale Crater , at the foot
of a 3.4 mile (5.5 kilometer) high mountain. The crater spans 96
miles, an area about the size of  Connecticut  and  Rhode Island 
combined, according to NASA. Because of its low elevation, water
on Mars would probably have pooled in the crater. Orbiting
probes suggest there may be water-related clay and minerals.
Curiosity is loaded with equipment to allow analysis of air,
rock and soil samples.  “I’m thrilled,” said Bobby Braun, a professor of space
technology at the Georgia Institute of Technology, who was
NASA’s chief technologist in 2010-2011. “I’m ecstatic. I can
barely talk because I’ve been screaming. We were tense here, but
the mission went like clockwork.”  Hundreds of spectators, many carrying cameras, gathered in
sultry weather in New York’s Times Square to witness the event,
which was broadcast on a large electronic screen overhead. The
crowd erupted into applause and chanted “ NASA ! NASA!” when
Curiosity’s safe landing was confirmed. An electronic sign below
carried the message: “Congratulations Curiosity on your
successful landing on Mars.”  Space, Not War  “I wanted to see the landing in an intensely social
atmosphere,” said Max Juren, 31, from Austin,  Texas , wearing a
tinfoil hat for the occasion. “I would rather see billions of
dollars spent on exploration than a single cent on war. I am
happy they succeeded. I was nervous.”  The one-ton rover touched down after hanging by ropes from
a rocket backpack. The descent was tracked by the Mars orbiter
Odyssey, which was able to almost immediately relay to
scientists on earth black-and-white fisheye images of the planet
received by the Canberra,  Australia , antenna station of NASA’s
Deep Space Network.  “It’s a really big step outwards, and the only place we
can look is out,” said Jim O’Reilly, 20, from Redding,
Connecticut, who joined the crowd at Times Square.  NASA dubbed the period from entry to touchdown the “7
Minutes of Terror” in  a video  describing the event. The
spacecraft entered the atmosphere and decelerated quickly,
deploying a parachute. It then separated into parts, one of
which was a hover craft with rockets.  ‘Footprints on Mars’  “Today, the wheels of Curiosity have begun to blaze the
trail for human footprints on Mars,” NASA Administrator Charles Bolden said in a statement. President  Barack Obama  laid out a
vision for sending humans to Mars in the mid-2030s, “and
today’s landing marks a significant step toward achieving this
goal,” Bolden said.  The craft lowered Curiosity to the ground using a “sky
crane,” and then flew away. The new system replaced airbags
used in previous missions to lessen ground impact because
Curiosity was too heavy to use them.  A 14-minute communication lag exists between the vehicle
and the control center 154 million miles away on Earth, where
scientists monitored transmissions from the craft. By the time
NASA got word the device had entered the atmosphere, Curiosity
had already landed.  World Asset  “Some people have been working on this for 10 years,”
said Braun, the space researcher, in a telephone interview from
Mission Control in  California . “This is an asset for the whole
world, so we’re going to be careful.”  Curiosity returned its first view of Mars, a wide-angle
scene of rocky ground near the front of the rover. More images
are anticipated in the next several days as the mission blends
observations of the landing site with activities to configure
the rover for work and check the performance of its instruments
and mechanisms, NASA said.  The rover is currently in a safe state, Braun said. It will
be checked out and deployed over several days.  ‘Complex Machine’  “The cameras have to be calibrated,” he said. “This is
an elaborate, complex machine.”  Curiosity carries 10 science instruments with a total mass
15 times as large as the science payloads on the Mars rovers
Spirit and Opportunity, according to NASA. Some of the tools are
the first of their kind on Mars, such as a laser-firing
instrument for checking elemental composition of rocks from a
distance.  The rover will use a drill and scoop at the end of its
robotic arm to gather soil and powdered samples of rock
interiors, then sieve and parcel out these samples into
analytical laboratory instruments inside the rover, NASA said.  The  Mars Science Laboratory , the formal name of the mission
deploying the Curiosity rover, was launched from  Cape Canaveral 
in  Florida  on Nov. 26, 2011. After Curiosity, the only planned
U.S. mission to Mars is an atmospheric orbiter meant to launch
next year.  To contact the reporter on this story: Elizabeth Lopatto in New
York at   elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Reg Gale at
   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 