-- Cyprus May Need More Bailout Cash for Banks, Public Finances
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-08-06T13:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/cyprus-may-need-more-bailout-cash-for-banks-public-finances.html
Cyprus may need more than the 10
billion euros ($12.4 billion) staffers have estimated for a
financial lifeline after bigger shortfalls than anticipated were
found on the government’s balance sheet, according to the
minutes of a meeting of international and Cypriot officials.  A mission of officials from the European Commission,
 European Central Bank  and the IMF, the so-called troika, met
with Cypriot lawmakers on July 27 to present findings from their
analysis of the country’s economy. On June 25, Cyprus became the
fifth of the euro area’s 17 member states to seek external aid.  “Your public finances are in a worse shape than we
expected,” Maarten Verwey, a troika official and a deputy head
of the commission’s Directorate General for Economic and
Financial Affairs, said according to the minutes of the meeting
obtained by Bloomberg News. “It is clear you have problems in
your banking sector. It is not just the major banks in Cyprus,
but the problems affect the entire banking sector.”  Euro-area finance ministers approved the bailout request
from Cyprus on June 27. No amount was specified for the rescue,
which will encompass the public sector as well as banks. Cyprus
also sought assistance from the IMF and  Russia .  ‘Further Economic Cooperation’  Cypriot banks lost more than 4 billion euros in  Greece ’s
debt restructuring earlier this year. The government had to
rescue the island’s second-largest lender, Cyprus Popular Bank
Pcl, in May by underwriting a 1.8 billion-euro capital increase.
On June 27, Bank of Cyprus Pcl requested 500 million euros in
temporary aid to meet regulatory requirements.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  and his Cypriot
counterpart, Demetris Christofias, discussed “further economic
cooperation” between the two countries during a phone
conversation today, the Cypriot government said in an e-mailed
statement.  Christos Christofides, a government spokesman, declined to
say if the two leaders discussed Cyprus’s request for a 5
billion-euro loan.  Mainly Russian non-residents hold one of every two euros
deposited at Cypriot banks, directly or indirectly, according to
Theo Parperis, chairman of the Institute of Certified Public
Accountants of Cyprus.  Budget Deficit  The EU’s Verwey declined to speculate on how much
assistance Cyprus may require in the troika’s meeting with
lawmakers, according to the minutes, which were verified by two
officials involved in the talks. The officials declined to be
identified because the meeting was private.  Spokespeople for the commission and the ECB couldn’t be
reached immediately for comment.  Cyprus could return to financial markets after it tackles
its budget deficit and structural reforms, the troika said. The
government needs to trim its payroll and spending on social
programs, overhaul the pension system and wage indexation and
enhance supervision of banks, according to the minutes.  The Cypriot government intends to narrow its budget deficit
to as little as 2.5 percent of gross domestic product this year
from 6.3 percent in 2011.  The Cypriot economy, which has contracted for three
straight quarters, will see a “deep recession” continue into
2013, Verwey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  