-- Deutsche Telekom Said to Want PrimaCom in Cable Comeback
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-08-07T15:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/deutsche-telekom-is-said-to-be-among-bidders-for-primacom-berlin.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Germany’s
largest phone company, is among bidders for PrimaCom Berlin GmbH
in a return to cable assets almost a decade after paring its
holdings as competition intensifies, according to people
familiar with the matter.  Offers were due last week after interested buyers studied
PrimaCom’s financial data, said two of the people, who asked not
to be identified because the process isn’t public. PrimaCom may
fetch more than 250 million euros ($310 million), they said.
Star Capital Partners was among private equities that also bid,
said one person.  Takeovers of Germany’s cable assets, once owned by Deutsche
Telekom until the Bonn-based former phone monopoly completed
their sale in 2003, is picking up as cable companies compete
with telecommunications operators for phone, Internet and pay-
television customers.  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  last
year won antitrust approval to acquire Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg,
adding to its 2009 purchase of Unitymedia.  “We see Deutsche Telekom’s interest as all part of the
strategy to win over housing association access to customers, so
that Deutsche Telekom can lead the fiber upgrade process and win
broadband and TV customers,” said Guy Peddy, an analyst at
Macquarie Securities in  London . “If they fail it has the added
benefit of possibly increasing the price to other buyers.”  A representative of Deutsche Telekom declined to comment.
Press officials at Leipzig-based PrimaCom didn’t immediately
respond to phone calls.  Tele Columbus  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , Germany’s biggest cable
operator, rose 0.1 percent to 50.93 euros at 4:26 p.m. in
 Frankfurt . Deutsche Telekom added 0.7 percent to 9.35 euros. The
stock had gained 4.7 percent this year through yesterday.  Germany  is set to grow faster than any other cable market
in  Europe  as consumers start to develop a positive attitude
toward pay-TV subscriptions and cable operators enter the market
for Internet and phone offerings, said Guy Bisson, a researcher
with IHS Screen Digest.  Digital cable penetration among German households is
projected to rise to 23.7 percent in 2016 from 11.6 percent in
2011, according to the researcher. Total TV, Internet and
telephone subscriptions with cable companies are forecast to
surge by 24 percent from 2011 to 32 million in 2016.  2010 Insolvency  PrimaCom, with about 1 million customers mostly in eastern
Germany, was taken over by lenders after it  parent ,  PrimaCom AG (PRC) ,
filed for insolvency in 2010. Creditors including Alcentra Group
Ltd., Avenue Capital Group, ING Groep NV and Tennenbaum Capital
Partners LLC took over the shares in 2011 as part of the
restructuring through a new holding company.  Kabel Deutschland  agreed in May to acquire Tele Columbus
Group, the cable TV provider owned by creditors after
restructuring its debt, for 603 million euros plus accrued
interest to expand coverage of the country’s pay-TV households.
The asset had also attracted interest from Deutsche Telekom and
Unitymedia, people familiar with the auction said at the time.  “We are looking at everything that is on the market, so
also PrimaCom,” Unitymedia Chief Executive Officer Lutz Schueler said in an interview last week. “We are an active
driver of the consolidation process in the cable market, as we
believe that this is necessary to be in a competitive
position.”  Last week, Warburg Pincus LLC, Cinven Ltd. and some allied
investors raised 681.5 million euros selling their stakes in
 Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) , the Dutch cable operator that held an initial public
offering this year. Swedish operator Com Hem AB was sold to BC
Partners Ltd. last year in a $2.6 billion deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  