-- Draghi Echoing Merkel Has Trader Raise Bets Against Euro
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-08-06T15:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/draghi-echoing-merkel-has-trader-raise-bets-against-euro.html
When European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  vowed July 26 to do “whatever it takes” to defend
the euro, he succeeded in stemming a slide that pushed the 17-
nation currency down about 6 percent since late March against
its major counterparts.  Traders in the options market responded by raising bets
against the currency of the developed world’s worst-performing
economy by the most in 11 weeks. Options to protect against
further weakness climbed in the past two weeks by the biggest
amount since May.  Between Jan. 12, 2011, when German Chancellor Angela Merkel
vowed to do “whatever is needed to support the euro” and
Draghi’s almost-identical pledge, Portugal,  Spain  and Cyprus
sought bailouts and the region’s $13 trillion economy teetered
on recession. Growth will trail its Group-of-10 peers through at
least 2014, according to Bloomberg surveys, as companies from
Siemens AG,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, to sporting-
goods maker Puma SE cut their outlooks.  “Whatever the ECB does, it can’t conjure growth out of
nowhere,”  Frances Hudson , a global strategist at Standard Life
Investments in Edinburgh, said in a telephone interview on Aug.
2. “The euro could go down further. The markets are not really
willing to give them the benefit of the doubt anymore.”  Lifetime Average  While traders aren’t anticipating a failure of the common
currency -- it’s still above the average versus the dollar since
its 1999 debut -- the euro’s depreciation shows investors see
better opportunities almost anywhere else in the world.  The euro slipped 0.1 percent last week based on Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track it against a group of
nine currencies from the dollar to Sweden’s krona. It rose 0.3
percent to $1.2426 at 11:20 a.m. in  New York , from the close on
Aug. 3, when it surged 1.7 percent. It gained 0.5 percent
against the greenback last week. The lifetime average since
January 1999 is $1.2087. The euro fell 0.1 percent to 97.09 yen.  Even as the euro stabilized, the price of protecting it
from further declines increased. Three-month options show that
the premium for puts, which grant the right to sell the euro
versus the dollar, over calls, which confer the right to buy,
increased to 1.62 percentage points at the end of last week from
0.85 percentage point on July 20.  The gain is the biggest since the period through May 18,
when  Greece  headed toward elections critical for its continued
membership in the currency union.  More Bearish  Traders are also growing more bearish over the next year.
The one-year rate reached 2.60 percentage points on Aug. 2, from
a 1.96 percentage points on July 20, which was the most bullish
since July 2011.  Futures traders  are also wagering that the euro will
decline against the dollar, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the
number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a
decline in the euro compared with those on a gain -- so-called
net shorts -- was 138,994 on July 31, compared with net shorts
of 155,066 a week earlier. Even as the number dropped, the euro
had a net long position, or bets on a gain, of 6,726 in August
last year.  Bank of America Corp. strategists lowered their euro
forecasts on Aug. 1, predicting it will weaken more than 7
percent to $1.15 by year-end, from a previous prediction of
$1.25. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender also sees the
currency depreciating more than 7 percent to 90 yen.  Spreading Malaise  “We’re a lot less optimistic that policy makers will be
able to get their act together quickly,”  John Shin , a senior
Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of America in
New York, said in a telephone interview on Aug. 3. Any signs of
strength are an “opportunity to sell,” he said.  The euro is declining against its major counterparts,
reaching all-time lows of 1.16057 versus the Australian dollar
on Aug. 2 and 1.4967 against New Zealand’s currency on Aug. 3.  With Greece,  Italy , Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain
experiencing recessions, the malaise may be spreading to
healthier economies.  Germany , which accounts for about 27
percent of the euro area’s output, saw slower growth in each of
the past four quarters through March from the year-earlier
period as orders at exporters fell.  Munich-based Siemens said July 26 that reaching its full-
year earnings goal has become harder. Puma cut its 2012 sales
and profit forecasts last month. The Herzogenaurach, Germany-
based company is preparing for European doldrums “until at
least 2013,” General Manager Finance Michael Laemmermann said
July 26 on a conference call.  High Deficits  The euro-area economy may contract by 0.4 percent this
year, compared with an average expansion of 1.29 percent in the
G-10, surveys of economists by Bloomberg show. Output in Europe
will then increase 0.6 percent in 2013, versus an average of 1.6
percent in developed nations, surveys show.  Europe’s slowdown makes it harder for governments to
generate enough  tax revenue  to reduce their budget deficits.  Ireland’s shortfall this year will be 8.5 percent of gross
domestic product, with Greece at 7.2 percent, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . Spain’s will probably be 6 percent,
the forecasts show. At 3.2 percent of GDP, the region’s deficit
would still be less than the 8.1 percent for the U.S., according
to the Washington-based IMF.  Fall Further  “There’s further scope for the euro to fall,” Neil Williams, the chief economist in  London  at Hermes Fund
Management, which oversees about $46 billion of assets, said in
a telephone interview on Aug. 2. “We are in the third year of
the crisis and even if we have a magic wand and manage to solve
the problems in Greece and Spain, all that would do is take us
back to the underlying problems,” such as the differences in
productivity among euro-zone nations, he said.  That’s unless the  Federal Reserve  takes more steps to boost
U.S. growth, according to BNP Paribas SA.  The euro will strengthen against the dollar as a slowing
U.S. economy prompts the Fed to inject more money into the
financial system through bond purchases as soon as September,
debasing the greenback, BNP Paribas said. The currency will
recoup its losses against the dollar since January to end the
year at $1.35, a more than 4 percent gain from its 2011 close of
$1.2961, the bank said.  “More stimulus from the Fed is going to put pressure on
the dollar,”  Mary Nicola , a New York-based currency strategist
at BNP Paribas, said in an interview on Aug. 1. The common
currency may climb versus the dollar even as it declines against
others, she said.  Jobs Report  The euro strengthened almost 15 percent against the dollar
as the Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt
from December 2008 to June 2011 in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing, or QE, seeking to cap borrowing costs.  U.S. central bankers, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
“will provide additional accommodation as needed” to bolster
the expansion, the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a
statement on Aug. 1.  While payrolls in the U.S. climbed 163,000 in July, more
than the 100,000 median estimate of 89 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly rose to 8.3
percent from 8.2 percent, Labor Department figures in Washington
showed on Aug. 3.  The euro retraced its QE-based gains as Europe’s leaders
failed to resolve differences on how to end the debt crisis.  Draghi “didn’t have the firepower to make the claim that
he made” on July 26, said Hudson at Standard Life, Scotland’s
second-biggest money manager, with about $240 billion of assets
at the end of 2011. Standard Life holds a smaller percentage of
the currency than is contained in benchmark indexes, she said.  Germany’s Reservations  ECB officials are devising a bond-buying plan that would
focus on shorter-term maturities, be conducted in a way to
soothe investors’ concern about which creditors get paid first,
and not breach European Union rules prohibiting the financing of
government deficits, Draghi told reporters in Frankfurt last
week. He said Germany’s Bundesbank has reservations.  Germany, along with AAA rated countries Finland and the
Netherlands, has rejected the issuance of common debt favored by
Prime Ministers  Mario Monti  of Italy and  Mariano Rajoy  of Spain
as a way to cement European unity.  Strategists have cut their euro forecasts in each of the
three months through July as economic releases signaled the
economic outlook was worsening. The median analyst prediction
compiled by Bloomberg is for the currency to end the year at
$1.23, down from a forecast of $1.30 on April 30.  “A solution to the crisis will take a long time,” Brad Bechtel, head of sales at  Stamford , Connecticut-based Faros
Trading LLC, who forecasts the euro at $1.16 by year-end, said
on July 27. “The decisions are very difficult to implement and
that’s what is sowing all the seeds of doubt in the market.
There’s probably going to be a temporary bounce in the euro,
followed by further weakness and a move lower.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  