-- Dubai Investments Tumbles Most Since May on Profit: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-08-06T11:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/dubai-investments-tumbles-most-since-may-on-profit-dubai-mover.html
Dubai Investments PJSC (DIC)  fell the most
in more than three months, leading a drop in Dubai’s  benchmark
stock index , after the company with stakes in more than 40
businesses said second-quarter profit fell 54 percent.  The shares slumped 4.7 percent, the most since May 2, to
73.7 fils at the close in Dubai. The stock led the  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  1 percent lower to 1,559.06 and was the  seventh most-
traded  on the gauge. The company yesterday said  quarterly profit 
declined to 63.4 million dirhams ($17.3 million) as revenue from
contracts dropped.  “The only improvement comes from rental income and
revaluation of investments, mainly real estate,” said Talal Touqan, Abu Dhabi-based head of research at Al Ramz Securities.
The “conglomerate is still suffering from income generated from
other businesses” such as industries and financial investments.  The United Arab Emirates’ housing market is stabilizing
after the collapse in prices. Dubai Investments’ earnings
declined as the sheikhdom’s real-estate market crashed in the
wake of the 2008 global credit crisis, sending  home prices 
plunging more than 65 percent from a peak that year.  Economic growth in the emirate, which relies on hospitality
and trade for more than 33 percent of gross domestic product, is
forecast to expand as much as 5 percent this year, according to
the government.  Dubai Investments is targeting exits “from selected
investments” to help boost profitability, chief executive
officer Khalid Bin Kalban said yesterday. The company also holds
interests in dairy farms, publishers and manufacturers of glass,
pharmaceuticals, vegetable oils, building materials, and
aluminum extrusions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  