-- Judo Champ Stops Olympic Bottle Thrower; Leeds Man Arrested
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-08-06T15:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/dutch-judo-champion-beats-up-bolt-attacker-for-throwing-bottle.html
A spectator who threw a plastic
bottle onto the track moments before yesterday’s Olympic 100-
meter final was arrested after he was struck by a Dutch judo
champion standing next to him.  The incident happened as the world’s fastest men, including
eventual champion Usain Bolt of  Jamaica , were lining up at the
start in  London ’s Olympic Stadium.  Ashley Gill-Webb, a 34-year-old man from Cornmill Court in
Leeds, was arrested last night inside the stadium on suspicion
of causing a public nuisance, the Metropolitan Police said in an
e-mailed statement. He’ll appear at Stratford Magistrates Court
today, the police said.  World judo champion Edith Bosch of the Netherlands, who won
a bronze medal in the 70-kilogram Olympic event last week,
immediately took action.  “Just as the gun went off, this man just threw his bottle
on the track,” Bosch said in an interview at the Athlete’s
Village today. “And then I responded in the way any other human
being human would have responded: I pushed him and told him,
’Man, be normal, have you lost your mind?’”  Bosch, who had been sitting on the second row right behind
the 100-meter start line, said the man had been shouting
“abusive and disrespectful stuff” at the sprinters during the
build-up for the race as he stood at the boundary fence.  After he threw his bottle, the man was taken away by
guards, Bosch said.  Missed Race  She never saw Bolt win in 9.63 seconds to beat the fastest
field in Olympic history.  “Because of all the commotion, I ended up missing the
actual race,” Bosch said. “I was pretty gutted. But I do think
that such behavior is a no-no, it doesn’t show any respect for
the athletes.”  Shortly after the incident happened, Bosch had said on her
Twitter site: “A drunken spectator threw a bottle onto the
track! I HIT HIM....unbelievable.”  A video on the website of the Dutch newspaper  De Telegraaf 
shows a man, standing on the left of Bosch, throwing a bottle.
Bosch then turns around before the picture gets cut off.  Sebastian Coe, the chairman of the London 2012 organizing
committee, called yesterday’s turn of events “poetic justice.”  “I’m not suggesting vigilantism but it was actually poetic
justice that they happened to be sitting next to a judo
player,” Coe, a double gold medalist in the 1,500-meters, said
at a press conference today.  “I think the expression is ippon,” he added, referring to
a winning judo move.  ‘Zero Tolerance’  “Throwing a bottle onto the field of play is unacceptable,
it’s not just unacceptable at an Olympic Games but at any
sporting event and anybody who does that will be removed,” Coe
said. “There is zero tolerance for anything like that.”  The Dutch press agency ANP earlier today ran a story with
the headline, “Edith Bosch - World Famous With a Bang.”  “Not her bronze medal, but the fact she’s walloped a
bottle thrower has turned Edith Bosch into a famous athlete,”
the agency wrote.  Bosch, who stands 6 feet (1.83 meters) and is competing in
her fourth Olympics, is looking forward to watching more sports
later on in the day.  “I’m not famous,” she said. “I’m going to watch some
beach volleyball tonight because that’s what we are here for,
it’s the  Olympic Games .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  