-- Dynam Falls on First Day of Trading in Hong Kong
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2012-08-06T09:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/dynam-falls-on-first-day-of-trading-in-hong-kong.html
Dynam Japan Holdings Co. (6889) , the first
Japanese company to have its primary listing in  Hong Kong ,
dropped 10 percent on its debut after the pachinko hall operator
raised net proceeds of HK$1.5 billion ($194 million).  The pachinko hall operator closed at HK$12.54 in Hong Kong,
10 percent below its offer price of HK$14.  Dynam is going public as companies that completed first-
time share sales this year in Hong Kong are down on average 7.6
percent from their offer prices, Bloomberg data show, with deal
sizes weighted. Pachinko is a form of gambling in  Japan  that
involves mechanical games similar to  slot machines .  “There’s a lack of interest,” said  Kenny Tang , general
manager at AMTD Financial Planning Ltd. of the Dynam offering.
“The trading volume is very thin. Hong Kong investors may not
understand what the pachinko business is about as there isn’t a
single pachinko company here.”  The company would like to get into the casino business if
Japan legalizes gambling houses, Chief Executive Officer Yoji Sato said today in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  “If legal systems are developed for casinos in Japan,
Dynam group would like to partner as a casino operator with big
overseas casino operators,” Sato said. His company has been
getting offers to meet with Macau gambling companies, he said.  The Tokyo-based company had originally offered its shares
at HK$14 to HK$16 each, according to a prospectus for the sale.  New Share Sales  Piper Jaffray Asia Securities Ltd., Shenyin Wangui Capital
(H.K.) Ltd. and  Citic Securities (600030)  Corporate Finance (HK) Ltd.
were the joint lead managers of the IPO, according to Dynam’s
filing.  The company posted profit of 15.9 billion yen ($202
million) on sales of 165.1 billion yen for the financial year
through March 31, the filing showed.  Companies have raised $5.6 billion through first-time share
sales in Hong Kong this year, the lowest for similar periods
since 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. These deals
include offerings by firms already listed in other markets.  Dynam, with 355 pachinko halls in 46 of 47 prefectures in
Japan at the end of March, is the nation’s second-largest
operator, according to a pre-listing filing to Hong Kong’s stock
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  