-- Leap Wireless Shares Tumble After Subscriber Exodus Worsens
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-08-07T20:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/leap-wireless-shares-plunge-after-subscriber-losses-worsen.html
Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) ’s
shares fell 19 percent after its net customer losses almost
tripled to 289,270 last quarter, a sign the company is
struggling to keep up with larger carriers.  The shares tumbled to $4.49 following Leap’s second-quarter
earnings, marking the biggest one-day decline in more than three
months. The stock has dropped 52 percent this year.  Leap, whose market value has slid to $357 million, said
yesterday that it’s evaluating “all options” to squeeze more
value from its assets. Leap’s wireless spectrum alone is worth
$3 billion, Chief Financial Officer Jerry Elliott said on a
conference call. While the comments signal that the company is
looking for a buyer, that isn’t enough to impress investors,
said  Michael Mahoney , a senior managing director at Falcon Point
Capital LLC in  San Francisco .  “People say, ‘Why should I believe it’s going to happen
now?’” he said. “The time to have done a deal at the best
price went by a long time ago.”  The pay-as-you-go wireless carrier also is saddled with
$3.2 billion in long-term debt, outweighing the value of its
spectrum. Mahoney figures shareholders would be well served if
San Diego-based Leap gets a 15 percent premium on its enterprise
value -- between $3.5 billion and $4 billion for the spectrum
and the business.  IPhone Effect  Leap, which fired Chief Operating Officer Raymond Roman
last month, started selling Apple Inc.’s iPhone in June. While
the company is counting on the device to steal market share from
AT&T Inc. and  Verizon Wireless , Leap is selling the iPhone
without the same subsidies as its rivals. The challenge is
finding customers undaunted by the price tag, said  James Ratcliffe , an analyst at Barclays Plc.  “The iPhone’s impact is not going to be very much, because
it’s a very high-priced product,” Ratcliffe said. “The
environment remains a challenge.”  Leap’s shares have risen and fallen this year on takeover
speculation, with analysts ruling out potential acquirers.
Collins Stewart LLC said in February it was “highly unlikely”
that AT&T would buy Leap, despite reports of talks between the
two companies. A deal with MetroPCS Communications Inc.,
meanwhile, would be “fraught with challenges,” Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. said in March.  Leap remains an attractive acquisition target, though a
deal is more likely to happen in the second half of 2013,
Timothy Horan, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York , said
today in a report. Sprint Nextel Corp. and AT&T, the most likely
buyers, have other strategic priorities right now, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  