-- Lebedev Says Has Proof Russian Officials Stole Tens of Billions
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-08-06T12:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/lebedev-says-has-proof-russian-officials-stole-tens-of-billions.html
Alexander Lebedev , the billionaire
newspaper owner facing criminal charges in Moscow, said he’s
collected proof that Russian officials stole tens of billions of
dollars and he plans to share it with U.S. and U.K. authorities.  Lebedev said he’s already moved some of the evidence of
corruption he’s gathered since 2006, including the theft of $1
billion of state pension funds, outside of the country and
expects foreign governments to investigate because much of the
money was laundered abroad.  “I want an international investigation into tens of
billions of U.S. dollars stolen from banks and companies in this
country,” Lebedev said by phone from Moscow on Aug. 4. “I know
where the money is. I’ve been on it for many years and I think
this is probably the No. 1 reason for the attack on me.”  Russian investigators opened a criminal case against
Lebedev for hooliganism after he punched property developer
Sergey Polonsky during a television show last September. The
former KGB agent, who served in the Soviet Embassy in  London 
during the  Cold War , faces a maximum sentence of five years if
convicted. He said he expects to be indicted and barred from
leaving the country within a month. Lebedev may also be charged
with  money laundering  because his bank, National Reserve Bank,
is under investigation by the central bank, he said.  Putin, Khodorkovksky  Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said the Kremlin would
welcome any proof of graft by Russian officials. Russia is the
world’s most corrupt major economy and ranks alongside  Nigeria 
at 143rd of 182 countries in Berlin-based Transparency
International’s 2011 Corruption Perceptions Index.  “We remember many figures in the history of our country
who talked for years about holding suitcases full of various
kinds of dirt but nobody ever saw these suitcases,” Peskov said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “If somebody can help
uncover corruption, especially large-scale corruption, such a
man deserves all honor and praise -- but shame on slanderers.”  Lebedev, who owns the Evening Standard and Independent
newspapers in the U.K. and  Novaya Gazeta  in Moscow, is the
highest-profile businessman to oppose President  Vladimir Putin ,
59, since  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , the former Yukos Oil Co.
billionaire serving a 13-year sentence from two convictions for
 tax evasion  and fraud. Lebedev helps fund Alexey Navalny, 36, an
anti-corruption activist and leader of the opposition rallies
that erupted last year as Putin prepared to return to the
presidency for a third term.  Gorbachev, Politkovskaya  Navalny himself faces 10 years in prison after being
charged last month with embezzlement from a state company while
he was an unpaid adviser. In June, Lebedev used his shareholding
in OAO Aeroflot, the country’s largest airline, to elect Navalny
to the state-run carrier’s board of directors.  Lebedev, a co-owner of Novaya Gazeta with former Soviet
leader  Mikhail Gorbachev , said the evidence he’s collected “is
probably what put me on a collision course with some people in
the top echelons, in the law enforcement agencies, because they
are very worried.”  Five Novaya Gazeta reporters have been killed since 2000,
including  Anna Politkovskaya , who was shot in the head in her
apartment building on Putin’s birthday in 2006. The newspaper in
June accused the country’s chief investigator,  Alexander Bastrykin , of threatening the life of its deputy editor.
Bastrykin later admitted having an “emotional conversation”
with the editor, though he denied making threats.  Lebedev, 52, said last week that he would cede his stake in
Novaya Gazeta and sell all of his Russian assets to end the
“full-scale campaign” against him, though he vowed to continue
to support the publication financially. His assets include
National Reserve Bank, about 15 percent of Aeroflot, budget
airline Red Wings and construction, real estate and agriculture
holdings. He said he would provide Russian authorities the same
information he shares with foreign officials.  “They are listening to my phones,” said Lebedev, a former
member of  Russia ’s lower house of parliament and a failed Moscow
mayoral candidate. “They have devices everywhere, in my car, my
house, everywhere. I know that, I used to be trained for that.
But what can I do? I am completely helpless.”  Peskov said nobody in Russia gets harassed for funding
“legal work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  