-- Emerging Stocks Rise to 3-Month as Europe Concerns Ease
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-08-06T22:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/emerging-stocks-rise-to-3-month-as-europe-concerns-ease.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to the
strongest level in almost three months as concern over  Europe ’s
debt crisis eased and as better-than-estimated U.S. corporate
earnings boosted the outlook for exporters.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  climbed 1.5 percent to
967.44 in  New York , its highest close since May 11. Brazil’s
 Bovespa (IBOV)  index jumped as steelmaker  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais SA ’s 12-month price target was boosted by  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  Benchmark indexes gained more than 1 percent in
 China ,  Russia , South Korea and India.  Bank of Italy  Governor Ignazio Visco suggested the  European
Central Bank  may be willing to counter further signs of a
slowdown by cutting  interest rates , daily La Repubblica said.
The 21 countries in the MSCI gauge send about 30 percent of
their exports to the European Union on average, data compiled by
the World Trade Organization show.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. rose as profit beat projections. China regulators
broadened measures to boost investor confidence.  “Investors appear to be less worried about a deep
recession as a result of Europe’s troubles,” Greg Lesko, who
helps oversee about $700 million at Deltec Asset Management in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “U.S. corporate
earnings have been a major positive, and China has been making
efforts but growth there has been a mixed bag, so until that
changes, it’s hard to feel this is a sustainable rally.”  China cut interest rates in June and July, the first
reductions since 2008, and is encouraging local governments to
boost investment as economists forecast 2012 growth will be the
slowest in 13 years.  Kospi Index  Visco told La Repubblica in an interview published
yesterday that markets initially misunderstood ECB President
 Mario Draghi ’s Aug. 2 comments.  “Not only did the ECB not take any steps backward, but it
took decisive steps forward to correct the functioning of
monetary policy transmission, and therefore of the stability of
the single currency,” he told the newspaper.  South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  index surged 2 percent, the biggest
gain among benchmark indexes in emerging markets today, while
the won rose 0.5 percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  had its
best two-day rally since May as regulators broadened measures to
boost confidence in stocks.  The Bovespa index rose 1.9 percent despite a surprise
quarterly loss by oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  as
indications of European easing boosted the outlook for Brazilian
raw-materials exports.  Petrobras, Usiminas  Petrobras, as Brazil’s state-controlled producer is known,
slumped 0.1 percent after reporting Aug. 3 a loss of 1.35
billion reais ($666 million), trailing analysts’ estimates for
adjusted profit of 2.94 billion reais. Usiminas, as the
Brazilian steelmaker is known, jumped 7.9 to a two-month high
after Goldman hiked its 12-month price target to 9.8 reais from
8.5 reais.  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, Brazil’s third-largest
steelmaker, gained the most in nine months, advancing 7.5
percent to $11.22.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  gained 1.6 percent, while Taiwan’s  Taiex (TWSE) 
index rose 1 percent.  The Micex Index jumped 1.3 percent in Russia. VTB Group,
the nation’s second-biggest lender, increased 4.1 percent. OAO
Mechel, Russia’s biggest coking-coal producer, gained 2.2
percent and steelmaker OAO Severstal rose 2.7 percent.  The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  rose 1.8 percent in Warsaw.  PKO Bank Polski
SA (PKO) , Poland’s largest bank, rallied 1.8 percent after it said
first-half net income rose to 1.95 billion zloty ($590 million)
from 1.84 billion zloty a year earlier.  Turkey, China  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  gained 0.4 percent, led by
a 1.9 percent rise in  Turkiye Is Bankasi AS (ISCTR) , the country’s
biggest bank by assets. The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
added 0.6 percent in Johannesburg.  The Shanghai Composite rose 1 percent, taking its two-day
rally to 2.1 percent. China plans to let workers choose for as
much as 30 percent of their wages to be paid in the shares of
their publicly traded employers. The stock used to pay employees
must be acquired from the secondary market, according to draft
rules posted on the China Securities Regulatory Commission’s
website yesterday.  The BSE India Sensitive Index added 1.3 percent and
Vietnam’s VN Index gained 1.2 percent.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , which got 35 percent of its sales
from America and Europe last year, advanced 4.4 percent in
Seoul, the most since July 27. The stock has the biggest
representation on the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Information
Technology Index, which led gains in the broader emerging-market
gauge.  HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second-largest smartphone maker, fell 6.9
percent in Taipei to its lowest level since February 2010, after
forecasting revenue that missed analyst estimates.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell five basis point, or 0.05
percentage point, to 319 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net , or
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  