-- Employment Index in U.S. Climbs After Biggest Slump in a Year
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-06T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/employment-index-in-u-s-climbs-after-biggest-slump-in-a-year.html
A measure of job prospects in the
U.S. rose in July following the biggest slump in more than a
year, indicating the labor market in the world’s largest economy
is gradually healing.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index increased
0.4 percent to 108.1 from the prior month after falling 0.7
percent in June, the biggest drop since April 2011, the New
York-based private research group said today. The measure was up
5.9 percent from July 2011.  The report follows Labor Department data last week that
showed employers added more workers than forecast in July even
as the  unemployment rate  increased to a five-month high. Faster
hiring is needed to lift wage growth and spur  consumer spending ,
which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  “Slow employment growth is likely to continue in the next
few months,”  Gad Levanon , director of macroeconomic research at
the Conference Board, said today in a statement. “There is no
reason to expect employers to rapidly expand their workforce in
the current economic environment.”  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators to forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, it
can signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months before
the fact and can predict job declines six to nine months in
advance, the Conference Board said.  Improvements in five of the index’s eight components
contributed to the increase in the overall gauge in July. These
included a drop in jobless claims, an increase in industrial
production and gains in employment for temporary workers, the
report showed.  July Payrolls  Payrolls rose by 163,000 in July after a 64,000 gain in
June, the Labor Department said on Aug. 3. The median estimate
of economists in a Bloomberg survey called for a 100,000
advance. Private payrolls, which exclude government agencies,
rose 172,000, also exceeding the median forecast.  The jobless rate climbed to 8.3 percent in July from 8.2
percent. Unemployment stuck above 8 percent since February 2009
is one reason why Federal Reserve policy makers last week said
they are prepared to take new steps if needed to boost the
economy.  Including the July gain, the U.S. has recovered 4 million
of the 8.8 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month
recession that ended in June 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  