-- Merkel’s Bavarian Allies Turn Critics on Anti-Crisis Measures
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-08-06T22:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/merkel-s-bavarian-allies-turn-critics-on-anti-crisis-measures.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Bavarian
allies moved to the front line of German criticism of crisis-
fighting efforts, berating  Greece ,  Italy  and the  European
Central Bank  in a broadside aimed at measures that Merkel backs.  Members of the  Christian Social Union , sister party to
Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , called for Greece to be
“cut free” from the euro, accused Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  of seeking to access German taxpayers’ money and branded
ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s bond-buying plans a “violation”
of the central bank’s rules.  The chorus of criticism from one of Merkel’s two coalition
partners underscores the fine line the chancellor must tread to
retain support for her anti-crisis efforts going into federal
elections in little more than a year. With a Bavarian state vote
in September 2013, there’s also a “strong tactical element” to
the CSU stance as it uses the crisis to buoy support, said Gero Neugebauer, a politics professor at Berlin’s Free University.  “The CSU has the capacity to hurt Merkel without over-
turning her policy,” Neugebauer said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “But the CSU instinctively knows it can only go so
far in sawing the branch it sits on. Bavaria does extremely well
out of the euro: Think BMW,  Siemens (SIE) , EADS.”  Germany’s political parties are sharpening their profile
before national elections in the fall of 2013 that Merkel has
said will be fought on the euro crisis. With the chancellor and
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  on vacation, the CSU has
filled the vacuum with comments on crisis policy.  Make an Example  Markus Soeder, Bavarian finance minister and a CSU member,
told Bild am Sonntag newspaper on Aug. 5 that “an example has
to be made of  Athens ,” by casting it out of the euro. “The
Germans can no longer be the paymaster for Greece” and it’s
important Spain and Italy see what happens if countries don’t
repay their debts, the newspaper cited him as saying.  Alexander Dobrindt, CSU general secretary, said comments
made by Monti in this week’s  Der Spiegel  magazine calling for
governments to implement crisis-fighting steps without constant
recourse to parliament were an “attack on democracy,”
according to an interview with the Rheinische Post newspaper.  CSU lawmaker Hans Michelbach, the ranking CDU/CSU member of
parliament’s finance committee, followed up yesterday by
demanding that Draghi spell out his bond-buying plans. In the
past week, Michelbach has called for ECB voting rules to be
overhauled to reflect a country’s share of liabilities; urged a
ban on ECB bond purchases; and rejected granting the permanent
euro rescue fund access to ECB liquidity via a banking license.  ‘Abusing’ Mandate  “Taxpayers have a right to know which risks the ECB has
already heaped up in abusing its mandate,” Michelbach said in
an e-mailed statement. “Draghi needs to open the books.”  Merkel’s government closed that particular line of
criticism, with spokesman Georg Streiter telling reporters in
Berlin yesterday that she backed Draghi’s proposal on bond
buying in tandem with the European rescue fund. She has also
consistently said she wants Greece to stay in the euro.  Frank-Walter Steinmeier, parliamentary leader of the main
opposition  Social Democratic Party  and former foreign minister
in Merkel’s first-term government, called on the chancellor to
put an end to this “irresponsibility coming out of Bavaria,”
Deutsche-Presse Agentur cited him as saying in Berlin yesterday.  Bavaria Polls  Support for the CSU was 43 percent in a July 4 Forsa poll
for Stern magazine, almost double the 23 percent of its nearest
rival, the Social Democratic Party. While that’s comparable with
the last election in 2009, that result cost the CSU its 46-year
absolute majority in the state and forced it into a coalition
with the Free Democratic Party.  Since then, FDP support has collapsed below the 5 percent
threshold needed to win parliamentary seats, meaning the CSU may
have to court the  Freie Waehler , or Free Voters, a euro-skeptic
party that has opposed rescues for  Germany ’s European neighbors.  “Merkel’s CSU allies have started braying from Bavaria,
bathing in the luxury of being a junior coalition party that can
get away with sniping at debt policy,” Irwin Collier, a
political scientist at the John F. Kennedy Institute of the Free
University, said in an interview. While it probably won’t draw a
response from Merkel, “it won’t go away either, as
electioneering becomes a new factor she needs to contend with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  