-- ETFs Poised to Exceed Trade in S&P 500 as Spiders Beat Apple
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-08-06T10:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/etfs-poised-to-exceed-trade-in-s-p-500-as-spiders-beat-apple-1-.html
For the first time, the value of
transactions in exchange-traded funds tracking the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  is poised to exceed the turnover for all the
stocks in the benchmark gauge of American equity.  Dollar volume in the SPDR  S&P 500  ETF Trust, the iShares
S&P 500 Fund and the Vanguard S&P 500 ETF reached a 12-month
average of $28 billion a day last month, 98 percent of the
trading in the index’s  companies , which include  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Exxon Mobil Corp., data compiled by Bloomberg and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  show. Investors have flocked to the securities that
mimic benchmark returns after the financial crisis increased
swings and correlations between assets.  For bears, the increase in ETFs shows investors are giving
up on picking stocks and searching for value in favor of
automated, day-trading, computer-driven strategies that
undermine the integrity of the stock market when they fail.
Bulls say demand for the products, which didn’t exist two
decades ago, shows that individuals and institutions are still
keen to own equities. They’re just fed up with the fees managers
charge without delivering adequate returns.  “ETFs not only have allowed investors to get in on this
risk-on, risk-off environment, but they have allowed many an
immediate exposure to the market without having to identify the
right stocks,” said  Mike Lenhoff , chief strategist at Brewin
Dolphin Securities Ltd. in London, in an Aug. 3 phone interview.  Trading Gauges  ETFs have been under scrutiny by regulators trying to gauge
whether they are contributing to the surge in high-frequency and
algorithmic trading. A malfunction in the computer systems run
by  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  last week triggered sudden price
swings of 10 percent or more in dozens of U.S. stocks.  Demand for products that track equity gauges is increasing
as flows to mutual funds that buy individual stocks decline.
Assets under management for global ETFs topped $1.46 trillion
this year, up from $1.30 trillion in 2011, Deutsche Bank AG data
show. North American equity exchange-traded products have lured
$29.3 billion so far this year, according to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
following total inflows of $103 billion in the last three years.  By contrast, U.S. funds that invest in American shares have
had net outflows of $18 billion in 2012, on top of $257 billion
taken out from 2008 to 2011, according to EPFR Global in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts . Developed-market equity mutual funds
have lost $52 billion in 2012, the data show, after redemptions
of $491 billion in the preceding four years.  Paying More  Only 13 percent of actively managed funds were beating
their benchmark index by at least 2 1/2 percentage points this
year as of July 23. The proportion was the lowest since at least
the mid-1990s, according to data compiled by JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Bloomberg. Of funds run by stock pickers, 32 percent
were at least 2 1/2 points behind their benchmarks, the data
show, matching the highest figure since 2003.  Active managers charge higher fees. Equity funds in the
U.S. cost owners 1.44 percent of assets annually, on average,
according to Morningstar Inc. Comparable ETFs charge 0.5
percent, according to the fund research firm.  “There’s been a big shift, with a lot of large investors
moving away from active investment to passive,” said Guy Fraser-Sampson, a senior fellow at Cass Business School in
 London  who wrote the books “The Mess We Are In” and “Multi-
Asset Class Investment Strategy.” “There is a growing
recognition now that it is very difficult for active equity
investors to consistently outperform. A lot of long-only
managers do not justify their fees.”  Timing Swings  The S&P 500 last week rose 0.4 percent to 1,390.99,
boosting its advance for 2012 to 11 percent. A report on Aug. 3
showed payrolls in the U.S. climbed by 163,000 in July,
exceeding the median forecast of 100,000 in a survey of 84
economists by Bloomberg. Futures on the S&P 500 advanced 0.2
percent at 6:12 a.m. in New York today.  Instead of trying to beat the market, or producing so-
called alpha, by picking individual stocks, investors are trying
strategies that involve timing moves, according to Christian Mueller-Glissmann, London-based equity strategist at Goldman
Sachs. Higher volatility has drawn investors to index trackers
and away from riskier single-stock bets, a team of analysts at
Bank of America Corp. led by Jon Maier wrote in a note published
June 27.  The S&P 500 has moved up or down 1.15 percent a day since
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008,
according to Bloomberg data, compared with an 80-year average of
0.75 percent before then. The  Chicago  Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, or  VIX (VIX) , has averaged 26.6 since the start of
2008, compared with 14.7 in the previous four years.  BlackRock, iShares  “With macro risk and anxiety taking over during an
economic downturn, investors are looking at equities more as an
asset class rather than the individual companies,” Mueller-
Glissmann said in an interview. “Investors have a better chance
to generate alpha by focusing on trading and picking equity
indices rather than stockpicking.”  The SPDR S&P 500 ETF is managed by Boston-based  State
Street Corp. (STT)  and the iShares fund is controlled by BlackRock
Inc. in New York, while Vanguard Group Inc., based in  Valley
Forge ,  Pennsylvania , oversees the Vanguard S&P 500 ETF.  High volume in the S&P 500 funds is more representative of
day trades than long-term ownership, said Christos Costandinides, European head of ETF research and strategy at
Deutsche Bank. The turnover has coincided with an increase in
so-called high-frequency trading. The practice, known as HFT,
has accounted for about 53 percent of trading this year, up from
26 percent in 2006, according to Tabb Group LLC, a New York-
based financial industry research firm.  Share Baskets  ETFs suit high-frequency traders as they allow them to jump
in and out of the market more quickly than buying a basket of
shares in individual companies, said London-based Costandinides.  “A lot of the S&P 500 ETF turnover can be attributed to
active trading strategies,” Costandinides said in an
interview. “Portfolio trading is becoming much more prevalent
than single-stock trading. That is one of the trends that have
transpired over the past two years.”  High-frequency trading is a technique that relies on the
rapid and automated placement of orders, many of which are
immediately updated or canceled, as part of strategies such as
market making and statistical arbitrage and tactics based on
momentum. Getco LLC and Citadel LLC, both based in Chicago, and
New York-based Virtu Financial LLC are among the biggest
automated-trading firms.  Rising Correlation  The increased use of index-derivatives products such as
ETFs has fueled a debate on whether they are responsible for
increased correlation between markets, or whether prices that
move more in lockstep push investors into ETFs.  Stock prices can be influenced by the trading of ETFs,
Robert D. Boroujerdi, a Goldman Sachs analyst and three
colleagues wrote in a paper in January. Among S&P 500 companies,
Houston-based FMC Technologies Inc., an offshore-drilling
technology firm, was the most affected, with an estimated 23
percent of volume driven by ETF trades.  Writing in a National Bureau of Economic Research paper in
September 2010,  New York  University Professor  Jeffrey Wurgler 
reviewed research that suggested that “index-linked investing
is distorting stock prices and risk-return tradeoffs.” The
paper later added that “the evidence is that stock prices are
increasingly a function not just of fundamentals but also of the
happenstance of index membership.”  Cheaper, Quicker  As macroeconomic stories have come to overshadow news from
individual companies, investors have found in ETFs a cheaper and
quicker way to get in and out of the entire equities market,
said Joel Dickson, investment strategist at Vanguard.  “What we have seen is more trading in basket-type
securities, where you are trying to adjust asset allocations and
not trading individual securities as such,” Malvern,
Pennsylvania-based Dickson, whose firm oversees $200 billion in
ETFs, said in a phone interview on July 27. “You are getting
the diversification and risk exposure to the asset without the
additional volatility of the securities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  