-- European Stocks Rise Amid Greek, Troika Policy Talks
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-08-06T16:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/european-stock-futures-advance-on-greek-debt-optimism.html
European stocks  climbed, extending a
four-month high for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, as Greece and
its creditors agreed on the need to strengthen policy efforts to
support economic growth.  BNP Paribas SA led banks higher, rallying 3.8 percent in
Paris. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA jumped 5.2 percent after the
luxury-goods maker projected a jump in first-half profit.
Carmakers gained after Japanese rival Toyota Motor Corp. raised
its sales target.  The benchmark  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  added 0.5 percent to 266.80 at the
close of trading. The gauge last week increased 2.2 percent to
the highest level since April 2, boosted by a U.S. jobs report
that topped economists’ forecasts.  There is “too much pessimism on policy,” wrote  Andrew Garthwaite , a strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG which today
upgraded continental European equities to benchmark. “Earnings
revisions relative to those of global markets are positive and
relative economic momentum is troughing,” he said in a note to
clients.  The Stoxx 600 has climbed for nine consecutive weeks, its
longest stretch of gains since January 2006, as policy makers
eased repayment terms for Spain’s banks and optimism grew that
central banks would announce stimulus measures to support
economic growth.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the index was 18 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed today.  Greek Rescue  Greece and its international creditors have agreed on the
need to strengthen policy efforts and comply with its bailout
terms after more than a week of meetings.  Representatives from the so-called troika of the European
Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary
Fund met with Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras in Athens
yesterday at the conclusion of the meetings. The talks will
determine whether Greece continues receiving funds from the
country’s 240 billion euros ($297 billion) of rescue packages.  Elsewhere, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government
today backed ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s proposals on bond
buying to help bring down borrowing costs in Spain and Italy.  The government is “not worried” by Draghi’s announcement
of Aug. 2, deputy Merkel spokesman Georg Streiter told reporters
at a regular press briefing in Berlin today, when asked whether
the government is concerned that ECB independence might be
compromised.  National benchmark indexes advanced in 15 of the 17 western
European markets that were open today. Iceland was closed.
France’s CAC 40 gained 0.8 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 0.4
percent, while Germany’s DAX jumped 0.8 percent.  Bank Shares  BNP Paribas jumped 3.8 percent to 33.20 euros, extending
last week’s 6 percent rally following Draghi’s push to set up a
bond-buying plan.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  climbed 5.2 percent to 3.73
euros and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  increased 2.2 percent to 18.93
euros.  “Investors are reappraising Draghi’s comments,” said  Jon
Peace , a London-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. who has a
buy rating on BNP Paribas. “BNP comes on top of the list if
investors are more confident and want to get more exposure to
euro-zone banks.”  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  rallied 4.5 percent to
5.59 euros and  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  increased 4 percent to 5.19
euros after a technical fault at Bolsas & Mercados Espanoles SA,
the operator of the Madrid exchange, halted trading in Spain for
more than 4 1/2 hours.  Richemont Forecast  Richemont gained 5.2 percent to 58.95 Swiss francs, the
highest level since March 15, after the maker of Cartier watches
projected a 20 percent to 40 percent jump in first-half profit.
The company reported a 24 percent increase in sales for the
first-four months of its fiscal year.  Peugeot SA (UG)  led carmakers higher, rallying 7.8 percent to
6.37 euros after Toyota, Asia’s largest automaker, reported
profit that beat analysts’ estimates and raised its sales
target.  Renault SA (RNO)  climbed 4.6 percent to 36.61 euros,  Fiat SpA (F) 
increased 4 percent to 4.18 euros and  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, added 2.4 percent
to 59.50 euros.  Ageas, Catlin  Ageas SA (AGS)  climbed 5.2 percent to 1.73 euros after the
majority owner of Belgium’s biggest life insurer reported
insurance profit that beat analyst estimates and announced a
stock buyback as a lockup on 78.9 million shares held by  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  expires.  Second-quarter profit from insurance operations was 147.6
million euros compared with a loss of 23.6 million euros a year
earlier. Analysts had estimated 133.5 million euros, the average
of three in a Bloomberg News survey.  Catlin Group Ltd. (CGL)  added 2.6 percent to 443.3 pence. The
Lloyd’s of London insurer swung to a profit on premium rate
increases and this year’s lack of natural disasters. First-half
pretax profit was $231 million compared with a pretax loss of
$201 million in the year-earlier period.  “The rating environment continues to be favorable, as
average weighted premium rates across the portfolio increased by
5 percent during the first half of 2012,” Stephen Catlin, the
company’s chief executive officer, said in a statement.  PostNL NV (PNL)  paced declining shares, falling 5.2 percent to
3.08 euros, after the Dutch company cut its full-year sales
forecast and said it sees cash operating income at the lower
half of the 110 million to 160 million-euro range. Second-
quarter earnings also missed analyst estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  