-- Dollar Weakens as Risk Appetite Increases; N.Z. Dollar Advances
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-06T21:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/euro-erases-loss-against-dollar-to-1-2388-in-new-york.html
The dollar fell against most of its
major counterparts amid a rise in risk appetite after German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government backed the  European
Central Bank ’s bond-buying plan to curb the area’s debt crisis.  The yen strengthened versus the dollar after a report said
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will probably refrain from undertaking
additional monetary easing at its meeting this week. New
Zealand’s dollar reached a three-month high against the
greenback, and Norway’s krone gained. Stocks rose, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index reaching its highest since May.  “We’ve seen a temporary subsiding in the risk-off trading
environment,”  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in
 New York  at  Bank of New York Mellon Corp (BK) , said in a telephone
interview. “The market is already very short euros and overly
long dollars, so going back to a more neutral basis is
consistent with what we’ve seen.” A short position is a bet a
security will decline, and a long position a wager it will rise.  The U.S. currency fell 0.3 percent to 78.25 yen at 5 p.m.
New York time. The greenback declined 0.1 to $1.2401 per euro,
after dropping earlier as much as 0.5 percent to $1.2444, its
weakest in a month, and rising 0.4 percent. The shared currency
lost 0.2 percent to 97.03 yen after touching 97.80 earlier, the
strongest level since July 12.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, reached 82.24
U.S. cents, the strongest level since April 30, before trading
at 82 cents, up 0.1 percent. The Norwegian krone gained 0.3
percent to 5.9602 per dollar and appreciated 0.2 percent to
7.3907 to the euro.  Aussie Unchanged  The Australian dollar was unchanged at $1.0569 before a
central-bank meeting tomorrow. The currency rose 0.2 percent
earlier to $1.0593, the highest since March 20, and fell as much
as 0.3 percent.  Reserve Bank  of Australia policy makers will
hold their cash rate target unchanged at 3.5 percent, according
to a Bloomberg News survey.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  increased as much as 0.6 percent, and the
 MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of stocks gained as much as 0.9 percent to its
highest point since May 4.  The euro lost 1.1 percent in the past month versus nine
developed-nation counterparts tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar was the worst
performer, falling 2.1 percent, while Sweden’s krona rose the
most, 3 percent.  Bank of Japan  The Bank of Japan, at a two-day meeting that begins Aug. 8,
probably won’t change its view that the nation’s economic is
picking up moderately, the Nikkei newspaper reported without
citing its sources. All 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
forecast no change in the benchmark overnight  target rate  of 0.1
percent.  The central bank needs to monitor the impact of a stronger
yen carefully, Yoshihisa Morimoto, a BOJ board member, said on
Aug. 2, speaking to reporters in Kanazawa, central  Japan .  “The yen does have some independence from the dollar,”
Bank of New York Mellon’s Woolfolk said. “It was never was a
safe-haven currency, although it mimicked one. The yen has been
supported over the last couple of weeks by repatriation on
behalf of Japanese investors.”  The pound and Sweden’s krone were among the biggest losers
in major currencies. Sterling reached a one-month low against
the euro after U.K. reports showing weakness in the housing
market underlined the fragility of Britain’s economy. The
currency dropped 0.4 percent to 79.48 pence per euro after
depreciating to 79.63 pence, the weakest level since July 6. It
declined 0.2 percent to $1.5603.  Krona Slides  The krona dropped against the euro and dollar after
 Statistics Sweden  said service production fell 0.2 percent from
May, when it gained 2.3 percent. Production rose an annual 1.1
percent, compared with May’s 1.9 percent jump.  The currency declined 0.2 percent at 8.3244 per euro and
slipped 0.1 percent to 6.7121 per dollar.  The euro gained versus the dollar after Merkel’s government
backed ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s proposals on bond buying to
help bring down borrowing costs in Spain and Italy.  Germany  is
“not worried” by Draghi’s announcement of Aug. 2, deputy
Merkel spokesman Georg Streiter told reporters at a regular
press briefing in Berlin today, when asked whether the
government is concerned that ECB independence might be
compromised.  The shared currency may strengthen to an almost three-month
high of $1.30 as European policy makers work to resolve the debt
crisis, BNP Paribas SA’s Peter Gorra said.  ‘Solve It’  “They’re going to solve it, and it’s going to be sooner
than people think,” Gorra, chief dealer for BNP Paribas
Americas, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch
Money” with Sara Eisen and  Stephanie Ruhle . “What they need to
do is address the short-term debt issues and the deposit-
insurance schemes.”  The euro fell earlier versus the yen and dollar after
Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said divisions within the 17-
nation currency bloc threaten the European Union’s future.  Draghi outlined a plan last week under which the ECB may
buy debt of struggling euro-bloc countries in tandem with the
euro area’s bailout fund, while saying the details still need to
be worked out over the coming weeks. Bundesbank President Jens
Weidmann said in an interview published a day before Draghi’s
comments the ECB shouldn’t exceed its mandate.  Federal Reserve  The dollar dropped on Aug. 3 and U.S. stocks climbed amid
speculation a payrolls gain of 163,000 jobs in July wasn’t big
enough to keep the  Federal Reserve  from taking further steps to
spur the economy. Fed policy makers said Aug. 1 after a meeting
that they “will provide additional accommodation as needed,”
while they refrained from expanding monetary easing this month.  Greece  and its global creditors agreed on the need to
strengthen policy efforts to support the economy and comply with
its bailout terms after almost two weeks of meetings in  Athens .  “Many people in markets are resigned to the fact that
Greece may need more assistance,”  Geoffrey Yu , a London-based
currency analyst at UBS AG, said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg - The First Word” with Ken Prewitt. “There’s very
little appetite across the  euro zone , especially in the core, to
provide Greece with any more money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  