-- Ex-Lehman Director Asks For Drug Program to Avoid Charges
-- B y   J o h n   D i l l o n
-- 2012-08-06T20:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/ex-lehman-director-asks-for-drug-program-to-avoid-charges.html
Former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
Co-Chief Operating Officer Bradley H. Jack, arrested in
Connecticut twice in less than a year on charges of prescription
forgery, said he is willing to undergo a diversionary program
for drug and alcohol treatment to avoid prosecution.  Jack applied for the program at a hearing today in
Connecticut Superior Court in Norwalk. Judge Bruce Hudock
ordered a doctor’s evaluation to determine if he is eligible for
the new program, which the judge said would be “a rare event.”  “If you are successful, your proceedings will be
dismissed,” Hudock told Jack at the hearing.  Jack joined New York-based Lehman in 1984 and ran
 investment banking  from 1996 to 2002, when he became co-chief
operating officer with  Joseph Gregory . In 2004, he was named to
the office of the chairman with the responsibility of overseeing
all of the firm’s investment-banking relationships. Jack retired
in 2005. The company went bankrupt in 2008.  Under the program, a case can be suspended for as long as
two years if the court finds a defendant was alcohol- or drug-
dependent at the time of the offense, needs and can benefit from
treatment, and suspending prosecution would be in the interest
of justice, according to the Connecticut Judicial Branch.  “The important thing is to put him on a path without any
criminal conviction,” said Robert Golger, Jack’s lawyer, in an
interview after the hearing. Suzanne Ieux, a supervisory
assistant state’s attorney, declined to comment on the case.  First Arrest  Jack, 53, was arrested in June 2011 on a charge of second-
degree forgery for allegedly obtaining forged prescriptions for
Ritalin and the painkiller Oxycontin in Fairfield,  Connecticut .  In that case, a state judge allowed him to enter an
accelerated pretrial rehabilitation program available to first-
time offenders charged with non-serious offenses. Last August, a
judge said at a hearing that the charges would be dropped if he
avoided arrest for a year.  Jack was arrested about seven months after the hearing on
charges of second-degree forgery, resulting in the current case.
Police alleged he altered a prescription for the drug Vyvanase,
which is used to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.  Jack pleaded not guilty March 21 and is free on bail. The
next hearing in the case is Oct. 1, when the judge may rule on
his treatment bid.  His application today to enter drug treatment is “just for
this case,” Golger said. A court hearing in Jack’s first
forgery case is scheduled for Aug. 17 in Bridgeport.  The attorney has said thatJack is in talks with
prosecutors that include a possible plea bargain. In
Connecticut, forgery is punishable by as long as five years in
prison and a $5,000 fine.  The case is Connecticut v. Jack,  S20N-CR12-0131552-S ,
Connecticut Superior Court (Norwalk). The earlier case is
Connecticut v. Jack,  F02B-CR11-0258280-S , Connecticut Superior
Court (Bridgeport).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Dillon  in Connecticut Superior Court
in Norwalk, Connecticut at  j.dillon@snet.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 