-- Texas Oil Boom Fueling Trucker Bonuses Propels Odessa
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-08-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/texas-oil-boom-fueling-trucker-bonuses-propels-odessa.html
Truckers can get $5,000 signing bonuses
from companies serving Odessa, the West Texas center of a new
Lone Star State oil boom and the nation’s fastest-growing city.  Housing is so tight that the local school district put
deposits down on 15 apartments, to ensure that new teachers
moving to the area would have places to live.  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  is adding tracks and railyard
facilities to help trains handle flows of drilling supplies
coming in and crude oil heading out. The rising prosperity,
driven by new extraction technologies and hydraulic fracturing,
has unleashed an economic surge that is transforming Texas’s
“petroplex” of Odessa and nearby Midland.  “It’s like we just discovered oil out here,” said Mike
George, the 65-year-old head of the Odessa Chamber of Commerce.
A development rush will add 13 hotels, 2,500 houses, industrial
parks and the first new apartment buildings in 15 years in the
city 350 miles (560 kilometers) west of  Dallas .  Midland and Odessa, which ranked first and second among
U.S. cities in average annual growth rates for the past decade,
according to a study from the U.S. Conference of Mayors, sit
atop the Permian Basin, one of the nation’s richest stores of
petroleum. Oil booms have come and gone before in both cities.  The area’s first oil well, in 1926, extracted 20 barrels of
crude a day. Last year, the Permian Basin produced 280 million
barrels, or 14 percent of U.S. output, according to the Texas
Railroad Commission, which regulates the industry.  Lasting Impact  Past busts have had lasting effects, George said.  After  oil prices  plunged by two-thirds from November 1985
to March 1986, Interstate 20, a local highway, “looked like a
business graveyard,” George said. “Many buildings were boarded
up and there wasn’t a vehicle in sight.”  “In previous booms, there was a lot of glitz and flash,”
he said. “This time, businesses are being very conservative.
Everyone is paying for things with cash.”  The boom’s downside shows up in rising demand for help from
food pantries as people living on fixed incomes must pay more in
rent, according to the Odessa branch of Catholic Charities
Community Services Inc. At the same time, the promise of job
opportunities has lured people to the area with little money,
and they often can’t find adequate housing, according to Tom
Pursel, United Way of Odessa’s executive director.  Fracking’s Benefits  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, and horizontal-drilling
techniques have  unlocked  reserves that couldn’t be extracted
economically in the past. Permian Basin wells reached the 1
million barrel daily production threshhold in 2011 for the first
time since 1998, U.S. Energy Department  figures  show.  Climbing oil production, as well as natural gas output,
helped push  Texas  tax revenue up 14 percent to $36.4 billion
through June, compared with the same period a year earlier,
according to state estimates released last week. Taxes from oil
and gas extraction have soared 49 percent, while the number of
active drilling rigs in the Permian Basin jumped to as many as
500 this year, compared with 100 in 2009.  “Oil and gas is what’s driving the positive revenue
report, more than any other sector,” Mike Reissig, associate
deputy state comptroller, said at a Legislative Budget Board
meeting last week. The industry accounts for 17 percent of
economic activity in Texas, the second-largest U.S. state by
population and the biggest producer of crude.  California Bound  So much oil is being extracted that a pipeline from the
basin to Houston-area refineries is filled to capacity. Now
trains and trucks carry West Texas crude to plants as far away
as  California , according to Guy Andrews, the Odessa chamber’s
economic development director.  Apache Corp. (APA) , which had 5 active rigs in the basin in 2010,
averaged 25 last year and now has 36, said Robert Dye, a
spokesman in Houston. The company will drill about 760 wells
this year, up from 507 in 2011 and 263 in 2010.  In Odessa, a sun-scorched desert community of about
100,000, the economy will expand by 9.7 percent this year, more
than five times the average U.S. metropolitan area’s growth
rate, the mayor’s group said last month, citing a study by IHS
Inc.’s Global Insight economic-forecasting unit in Lexington,
 Massachusetts .  In the decade through 2011, Odessa’s economy more than
doubled, growing at an average 9 percent annual rate, trailing
only Midland’s 9.1 percent pace, according to the IHS study. The
expansion has been a boon to Odessa Mayor Larry Melton, 74.  ‘Great Time’  “It’s been a great time to be mayor,” Melton said,
ticking off the five fire trucks, three fire stations, eight
“top-of-the-line” ambulances and a water park added by the
city in the past three years. He said property tax rates have
been cut in eight of his 11 years in office.  Retailers are cashing in, as local sales-tax collections
have surged 26 percent compared with a year earlier, when
receipts rose 25 percent from 2010, state records show. Chain
stores, including Best Buy, Kohl’s and Marshalls are moving into
shopping centers that are being developed at the city’s edge.  At Paul Evans Carpets in downtown Odessa, owner Paul Evans,
said sales have jumped 25 percent this year. He had just visited
a customer in a gated residential subdivision where homes as
large as 10,000 square-feet (930 square-meters) are being built
on oversized lots.  “There’s probably more money floating around the Permian
Basin than ever before,” said Evans, a 51-year resident.  Lowest Unemployment  The Odessa area’s 4.9 percent June jobless rate, down from
6.5 percent a year earlier, is the state’s second lowest,
trailing only Midland’s 4.3 percent, the Texas Workforce
Commission said last month. The  statewide  average was 7 percent.  In addition to enticing truck drivers, local employers are
offering signing bonuses for such low-skill jobs as hospital
housekeepers, and for physical therapists and hair stylists,
according to Internet job listings. Salaries as high as $95,000
a year for truckers have lured workers from other occupations.  Oil companies  are bringing in hundreds of employees to work
the fields, filling area hotels and motels to near-capacity and
driving up rates. Some companies are also importing housing.  Goliath Industries LLC will open a 52-acre “man camp” in
Odessa with modular living quarters for 1,000 workers this fall,
said  Ed Parker , regional sales manager for the  Grand Junction ,
Colorado-based company. Goliath typically charges $100 to $150 a
night per person for housing, with contracts that run as long as
two years.  ‘Man Camps’  The Odessa camp will offer private rooms with baths, meals
and entertainment and exercise facilities, Parker said. Four
more companies plan to open such temporary housing, Mayor Melton
said, easing a crunch that includes an eight- to 12-month wait
for new homes.  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI) , the nation’s largest homebuilder by
volume, is among those rushing to meet demand for living space
in the region. Odessa’s median home-resale price rose 8.6
percent to $152,000 in June from a year earlier, according to
Seattle-based information provider Zillow Inc. By comparison,
the average price statewide barely budged, rising 0.3 percent to
$175,600, according to Zillow.  Higher-quality one-bedroom apartments fetch as much as
$1,200 a month, prices that complicate efforts by local schools
to attract new teachers, even with starting annual salaries
raised to $45,000, said Brian Rosson, a human resources director
with the Ector County Independent School District. He put
deposits on apartments to make them available to new staff and
said some district employees have agreed to rent rooms to
newcomers until they can find more permanent housing.  “I’ve never seen anything like this” in 30 years of
living in Odessa, Rosson said.  Tough Times  The boom lures some who “are coming on a shoestring,”
United Way’s Pursel said. “They don’t have a pile of money.
They can’t find adequate housing; they’re living in substandard
conditions.”  Rising rents have strained people with fixed incomes, Faye
Rodriguez, the local Catholic Charities executive director, said
in an interview.  “Requests for food assistance are at an all-time high,”
Rodriguez said. Her agency usually distributes about 200 boxes
of food a week. On one recent day, it handed out 64, she said.  “The boom has created opportunities for many people,” she
said. “It’s not across the board.”  While past busts have been painful, the current boom
appears to have more staying power, thanks partly to new
drilling techniques, the chamber’s George said.  Bright Future  “With this new technology, we’re looking at many decades
of exploration and production,” George said.  The market may be helping to sustain the boom as well. Oil
futures have averaged more than $85 a barrel in  New York 
commodities trading for the past five years, even with a
collapse to $32.40 in the midst of the financial crisis.  City and business leaders see more than oil in Odessa’s
future, however.  West Texas Angelos Holdings LP plans a 520-megawatt solar-
powered electricity-generating facility in the region, and
Summit Power Group LLC is developing a coal-gasification plant
in nearby Penwell with the help of a $450 million federal grant,
said the chamber’s Andrews. Duke Energy Corp. is adding a 36-
megawatt storage system to its Notrees wind farm, 24 miles to
the west, which can produce as much as 153 megawatts.  “We are going to be the energy capital,” Andrews said.
“We already are on oil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net . 