-- Mexico Peso Bonds Fall as Europe Debt Concern Eases
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-08-06T21:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/mexico-peso-bonds-fall-as-europe-debt-concern-eases-correct-.html
(Corrects peso level in second paragraph.)  Mexico ’s peso bonds dropped, pushing
yields to a one-month high, as the  European Central Bank  won
backing from Germany for its bond-buying plan, reducing demand
for a refuge in the Latin American nation’s debt.  The yield on Mexican local-currency bonds due in 2024 rose
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.43 percent at 4
p.m. in Mexico City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
was the highest level on a closing basis since July 2. The price
declined 0.12 centavo to 141.05 centavos per peso. The peso fell
0.5 percent to 13.1985 per  U.S. dollar .  Local currency Mexican debt slumped on speculation the ECB
will buy sovereign bonds to help bring down borrowing costs in
Spain and Italy. The deputy spokesman for German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  said her government backed an ECB bond-buying plan
announced last week. Mexican fixed-rate bonds fell on Aug. 3 as
U.S. payrolls increased last month more than expected.  “Mexican bonds have been seen as a certain refuge from
adversity,” Gerardo Welsh, a bond trader at Banco Base SA, said
by phone from San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico. “We saw the
employment figures on Friday above expectations and in Europe
the possibility of buying back sovereign bonds. That helps calm
things down a bit.”  While yields on the 2024 bonds have risen nine basis points
since Aug. 2, they’re still down 123 basis points in 2012.  Investors including  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
largest mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., have
said they were buying the securities as a higher-yielding,
investment-grade alternative to safe-haven bonds from developed
nations during the  European debt crisis .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  