-- Facebook Bears Garner 500% Profit From Structured Products
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-08-06T13:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/facebook-bears-garner-500-profit-from-structured-product-bets.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s 45 percent drop since
its initial public offering generated returns of more than 500
percent for European investors that bought structured products
benefiting from the stock’s decline.  A put warrant, a security for speculating on the future
direction of a company’s share price, which predicted Facebook
would be at $22 by March, cost 6 euro cents ($0.07) to buy in
the week after Facebook went public with an initial price of
$38. Today, with Facebook trading at $21.87 at 09.50 am in  New
York , the warrant is worth  36 euro cents , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Facebook, which raised $16 billion in the biggest
technology IPO of all time, hasn’t closed above its IPO price
since its first trading day and has fallen 21 percent since
reporting earnings on July 26 that showed slowing revenue growth
and narrower profit margins.  “If you bought the $22 put when Facebook was trading at
$38 then you will have earned a lot of money,” said Heiko Geiger, head of public distribution for Germany and  Austria  at
Vontobel Holding AG in  Frankfurt , which issued the  $22 warrant .  The value of warrants increases as the reference stock
approaches the so-called strike price, the level at which the
securities profit or not. Investors can sell the securities on
for a profit or wait for the stock to move beyond the strike, or
into the money, and receive a cash payment depending on how far
the stock falls below that level.  Unlike options contracts that are traded on an exchange,
warrants are normally issued by banks, exposing the investor to
a lender’s credit risk.  “Unless you intend to speculate on prices falling further,
it would be good advice to cash in now,” said Geiger.  Tucker Bounds, a spokesman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment.  Calls and puts  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , Commerzbank AG and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are among lenders
that listed 2,082 warrants and certificates on European
exchanges since May linked to the shares of the social
networking site, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Banks
offered both calls, which profit if the stock rises, with
strikes as high as $150, and puts with strikes as low as $12.  Nine of the 10 most traded securities today are puts,
Bloomberg data show. Commerzbank sold the security with the
largest trading volumes -- a put warrant with a strike of $20,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A market for trading Facebook warrants began a week prior
to trading of the first options contracts on the stock providing
an initial indicator of market expectations of Facebook’s value
after listing at $38 a share.  In the options market, the  five most-owned  Facebook options
are bearish, and January $20 puts have the largest open
interest, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The $20 puts
represent 5.6 percent of the total put ownership.  Sales slow  Facebook’s first earnings as a public company, reported on
July 26, showed second-quarter revenue growth of 32 percent, the
slowest pace on record. Operating margin, excluding certain
costs, was 43 percent in the second quarter, a decline from 53
percent a year earlier, amid a fourfold surge in sales and
marketing expenses.  The emergence on the market of a glut of new shares in
August after the expiry of so-called lockup periods, which bar
insiders from selling shares for a period after the IPO, has
also contributed to the decline in the stock, said Ken Sena, an
analyst at  Evercore Partners (EVR)  in New York. Sena, who has a year-
end target price of $34.00 per share for the stock, said the
challenge of how to boost advertising revenue from mobile
devices was also a factor in the stock’s decline.  The decline in the shares of Menlo Park, California-based
Facebook nudged co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  out of the world’s 10
richest technology billionaires, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  Meanwhile, senior executives Katie Mitic and Ethan Beard
said on Aug. 2 that they’re leaving Facebook to pursue other
opportunities, bringing the tally of high-profile management
departures since the IPO to three.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  