-- Preparing for the Next Big Flood
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-06T22:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/fast-rising-seas-demand-new-flood-plans-and-smart-zoning.html
A new analysis of worldwide
temperatures over the past 60 years has found more evidence that
global warming is already upon us, and is responsible for
extreme heat waves -- such as the ones in  Russia  in 2010 and in
Texas and  Oklahoma  last year.  Naturally, this refocuses attention on the current U.S.
drought. Left out of the discussion, however, is another,
equally serious and already pressing consequence of human-
induced  climate change : sea-level rise. On all coasts, we face a
huge and building threat from too much water.  With oceans expanding from the heat and with glaciers large
and small melting away, sea levels have climbed more than 8
inches since 1880, and the  current rate  is about an inch and a
quarter every decade. Many scientists expect the water to rise
at least 2 feet to 3 feet more by the end of this century.  This won’t happen evenly everywhere. One hot spot is the
East Coast of the U.S., where the land is sinking and nearby
ocean currents are slowing, causing the water to rise faster.
From Cape Hatteras,  North Carolina , up through Cape Cod,
 Massachusetts , in the past half century, the speed of increase
in water level has been  three to four times  the global average.
Yet the North Carolina Legislature has essentially banned
relevant state agencies from taking projections of accelerating
sea-level rises into account in policy making.  Such shortsightedness on the part of public officials is
not only irrational, it’s foolish. By 2030, in many places on
the U.S. coast, sea level rise due to global warming will have
 more than doubled  the risk of floods 4 feet or more over high
tide. Lands below this 4-foot mark are now home to 5 million
Americans, as well as vital infrastructure such as  power plants ,
bridge access ramps and railroads -- not to mention schools,
hospitals, parks and countless seaside ice cream stands.  Thankfully, not all public officials have their heads in
the dampening sand. Their actions fall into three broad
categories: protection, accommodation and retreat.  Protective strategies include building or reinforcing
structures such as levees, dikes and sea walls and also
developing soft defenses such as marshes and beaches, which can
absorb some of the extra water during a  storm surge . On
Governor’s Island in the  New York  harbor, for instance, the plan
is to raise and grade the waterfront promenades and plant trees
capable of surviving in brackish water.  Accommodation means remodeling buildings and houses in
areas prone to more flooding. On Balboa Island, part of  Newport
Beach ,  California , homes are being built on foundations 3 feet
higher than in the past. In bigger cities, many apartment
buildings will have to be reconfigured to convert the lower
floors from residences to other uses. Underground stormwater and
wastewater networks will also need to be remodeled or
reinforced, as city officials are planning in  Olympia ,
 Washington .  Retreat is, of course, the strategy of last resort. Few
residents want to give up their ocean views, even when the view
is getting closer, and coastal real estate is some of the most
valuable in the country, bringing in high property taxes. This
explains official resistance to rezoning it to prohibit
building. Along the Atlantic Coast, new development is  still
expected  on almost 60 percent of the land within 1 meter of sea
level. Local officials have to find the gumption to rezone
before nature forces them to.  Congress could help -- by ordering the  Federal Emergency
Management Agency  to redraw its outdated flood insurance rate
maps to take into account anticipated sea-level rise.  Research 
shows that every dollar invested in such efforts to prepare for
disaster yields $4 in future benefits. Better maps could help
local governments plan better, and also help FEMA’s National
Flood Insurance Program save money.  Not “believing” in climate change has always been silly; it
has never been a matter of belief. Pretending not to see the
oceans rising takes this willful blindness to a new and more
dangerous level. If coastal flooding is going to be an ordinary
part of life, then the safety of millions of Americans depends
on better preparation for it.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Knight Capital and
computerized trading ;  Mark Buchanan  on  using Google to find
risky banks ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  anti-Semitism in Egypt ; William
Pesek on  rebuilding the tsunami zone  with microfinance;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on improving  political TV shows ; Betsey Stevenson and
 Justin Wolfers  on the booming business in  empirical economics ;
Richard Cohen on  whether fourth is good enough  at the Olympics;
Caleb Scharf on how  massive black holes  regulate star creation.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 