-- Fatal Crash at Yellowstone Club Happened on ’Camp Weekend
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-08-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/fatal-crash-at-yellowstone-club-happened-on-camp-weekend.html
The all-terrain vehicle accident that
killed a 19-year-old at Montana’s exclusive Yellowstone Club
happened on the first night of the community’s annual family
weekend, according to a person familiar with the event.  The ski-and-golf club -- which includes  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-
founder  Bill Gates , Tour de France champion Greg LeMond and
hedge fund manager Cliff Asness of AQR Capital Management LLC as
members -- holds the three-day “Camp Yellowstone” every year.
There are sack races, an egg toss and tug-of-war, according to
the person, who said he couldn’t speak publicly about activities
at the private club southwest of Bozeman.  What was supposed to be a festive occasion became tragic.
Parker Regan, of Mendham,  New Jersey , died after his prep-school
roommate, James Sinclair Welch, the son of a New York hedge-fund
manager, made a turn late on Aug. 2 in the 13,600-acre (5,500
hectare) haven, causing Regan to fall out of the vehicle,
according to an affidavit filed in state court by a  Montana 
highway patrolman.  Welch, also 19, was arrested and charged with negligent
vehicular homicide under the influence of alcohol. He posted
$50,000 bail and was released from jail Aug. 3.  Regan was visiting the club with the Welch family, his
father, R. Christopher Regan, said in an Aug. 3 interview. Welch
and Regan were roommates at  Suffield Academy , a boarding school
in Suffield,  Connecticut , where Regan was an honor student,
according to the school’s website. Welch, who goes by Sinclair,
according to the site, is a star soccer player.  Club Members  The Montana Highway Patrol is investigating the accident,
said Sergeant Chad Dever. The charge against Welch carries a
maximum sentence of as long as 30 years in prison and $50,000 in
fines in Montana, according to the state’s  statutes .  “It’s early in the investigation,” said Dever.  Membership at Yellowstone is limited primarily to those who
own one of the houses and condominiums scattered among 15 ski
lifts and an 18-hole golf course. Prices range from $2.5 million
for a condominium to $18 million for a ranch with 350 acres.
Members pay a $300,000 initiation fee that they get back if they
sell their property. Dues are $30,000 a year.  Yellowstone Club spokesman  Greg Hitt  said the club is
cooperating with the probe.  Search Warrant  Sinclair Welch was driving a 2012 Polaris  Ranger Crew , a
four-wheel-drive vehicle. He told police he was making a left
turn on Andesite Ridge Road when Regan “fell out,” according
to the affidavit by Trooper Joshua Brown.  After the accident, Welch refused to submit to a breath
test and blood test, according to Brown’s report. He smelled of
alcohol, his eyes were watery and bloodshot and his clothes were
bloody, the report said.  Montana officers were able to obtain a blood sample from
Welch after getting a search warrant by telephone from a Madison
County district judge, the report said.  On April 17, Welch was convicted of driving under the
influence of alcohol, according to the affidavit. It didn’t
say where that conviction occurred.  Welch was held in jail until about 5 p.m. Aug. 3, when he
appeared in Gallatin County Justice Court in Bozeman, posted
bail and was released, according to Officer Wylie Herrera at the
Gallatin County Detention Center.  Welch’s attorney,  William Bartlett  of Angel, Coil &
Bartlett in Bozeman, didn’t return telephone calls.  Welch Family  Welch is the son of Leighton Welch, founder of Welch
Capital Partners LLC. The hedge fund, with offices on Park
Avenue in  New York , had $350 million in assets at the end of
December, according to a  filing  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The family lives in Bronxville, New York.
Leighton Welch, reached in Montana, declined to comment on the
accident.  Leighton Welch is the son of James O. Welch Jr., according
to his 1987 wedding announcement in the New York Times. The
James O. Welch Co., founded by Leighton’s grandfather, made
Junior Mints and other candy before being sold to the National
Biscuit Co., according to the elder James’s obituary in the
Times in 1985.  The Yellowstone Club was founded in 1997 by timber baron
Tim Blixseth and his wife, Edra. In 2005, the club took a $375
million loan arranged by  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Greg LeMond 
filed a lawsuit in Virginia City, Montana, in May 2006, accusing
the Blixseths of taking $209 million of that for their personal
use, not the club’s.  The Blixseths settled the suit by agreeing to pay LeMond
and other owners $39.5 million, according to documents filed in
court by LeMond.  The Blixseths separated in 2006. Edra got the club in 2008,
after their divorce. It went bankrupt in November of that year.
CrossHarbor Capital Partners LLC, a Boston-based private equity
firm, bought it out of bankruptcy in 2009.  The club is managed by Discovery Land Co., a Scottsdale,
 Arizona , developer of luxury projects in  Hawaii ,  California ,
 Mexico  and the Bahamas.  Discovery  owns a stake in the club.  CrossHarbor and Discovery Land have been adding amenities
and signing up new members since 2009. Among CrossHarbor’s plans
is a new village with shops and restaurants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Effinger in Portland at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  