-- FBI Probes Sikh Killings as Domestic Terrorism Incident
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-08-07T04:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/fbi-probes-sikh-killings-as-domestic-terrorism-incident.html
Unlike the killings last month in
Aurora, Colorado, and the attempted assassination last year of
Representative  Gabrielle Giffords  in Tucson, Arizona, the FBI is
investigating a gunman’s rampage that killed six people at a
Sikh temple near Milwaukee as a domestic terrorism incident.  By giving it that label, federal and local law enforcement
can tap the resources of the FBI-led Joint Terrorism Task
Forces, said Pat Rowan, a partner at McGuireWoods LLP, a
Washington law firm who headed the U.S.  Justice Department ’s
national security division under President  George W. Bush . These
multi-agency teams have access to past investigations and
databases that may prove useful in the probe, he said.  “It’s really about the motive and not how many people were
injured,” Rowan said.  Under the USA Patriot Act, domestic terrorism occurs when a
person intends “to intimidate or coerce a civilian population”
or “affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction,
assassination or kidnapping.”  The incident at the Sikh temple in Oak Creek,  Wisconsin ,
two days ago ended when Wade Michael Page, a 40-year-old U.S.
Army veteran, was shot dead by police. He appeared to target
turbaned men as he moved through the building, a member of the
temple, Kanwardeep Singh Kaleka, told  CNN .  Mark Potok, senior fellow at the Montgomery, Alabama-based
Southern Poverty Law Center, which studies hate crimes,
described Page in a website  posting  as “a frustrated neo-Nazi
who had been leader of a racist white-power band” called End
Apathy.  FBI Monitoring  Previous attacks on members of the Sikh community across
the country led more than 90 members of Congress to send a
letter to Attorney General Eric Holder and  Robert Mueller ,
director of the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , in April. The
lawmakers said the “hate-motivated attacks” were a “growing
concern” and urged the FBI and the Justice Department to
monitor those incidents as hate crimes.  The deadly shooting at the Colorado movie theater on July
20 probably wasn’t investigated as domestic terrorism because
the motivations of the accused killer, James Holmes, appeared to
be tied to mental illness, not politics, said Stewart Baker, a
former assistant secretary for policy at the Department of
 Homeland Security .  Holmes is likely to use an insanity defense, said Craig
Silverman, a former chief deputy district attorney in Denver who
is now in private practice.  Likewise, the focus of the case in the Jan. 8, 2011, attack
on Giffords and constituents attending a town hall session
outside a Tucson supermarket has been the mental state of the
accused gunman, Jared Lee Loughner.  Loughner may plead guilty under a deal that could lead to a
life prison term, the  Associated Press  reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  