-- Fed Says Banks Ease Standards on Business, Consumer Loans
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-08-06T18:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/fed-says-banks-ease-standards-on-business-consumer-loans.html
U.S. banks are relaxing their terms
on credit cards and lending for autos and commercial real
estate, according to a Federal Reserve survey.  “Domestic banks, on balance, continued to report having
eased their lending standards across most loan types over the
past three months,” the Fed said today in  Washington  in its
 quarterly survey  of senior loan officers.  While lending standards are tightening at branches of
foreign banks, “domestic banks reported that their business had
increased due to decreased competition from European banks and
that they remain willing to accommodate additional such
business,” the Fed said.  Banks in the U.S. are lending the most since the recession
ended in June 2009, supporting an economy burdened by 8.3
percent unemployment. Fed policy makers including Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  weighed the results of the survey at their July 31-
Aug. 1 meeting at which they said they “will provide additional
accommodation as needed” to support the economy.  The survey said that banks loosened standards for loans to
large and medium-sized firms, while loan standards to small
business were little changed for the fourth consecutive survey.  “Banks are lending and that’s a good thing,” said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York .
“Banks have been easing standards for the past couple of years
and that’s continuing but now you’re seeing demand picking up
too and more loans are getting made.”  More Competition  Banks that eased standards on business loans “continued to
cite more aggressive competition from other banks and nonbank
lenders as a reason. Only about one-fourth of the banks that had
eased lending policies had done so because of a more favorable
or less uncertain economic outlook.”  Demand increased for commercial real estate loans according
to a “relatively large” number of survey respondents.
Standards for such loans were more likely to be eased than
tightened, banks said.  The survey of loan officers at 64 domestic banks and 23
U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks was conducted from
July 3 to July 17, the Fed said. The report doesn’t identify
respondents.  Consumer lending standards for car financing and credit
card loans eased, while standards for other consumer borrowing
were about unchanged, according to the Fed. Banks “reported
stronger demand for auto loans,” and an increase in demand for
credit card loans, according to the survey.  Mortgage Demand  A “relatively large” number of loan officers reported
stronger demand for prime mortgages during the survey period,
while lending standards for those home loans were little
changed, the Fed said. Standards “tightened somewhat for
nontraditional mortgages,” according to the survey.  Increasing credit, along with the rebounds in housing and
autos, may provide “some underlying support” for economic
growth, according to  Michael Strauss , who helps manage $26
billion as chief economist and chief investment strategist at
Commonfund in Wilton,  Connecticut .  “It may hint that two highly interest-rate-sensitive
sectors, autos and homebuilding, are going to get economic
support,” Strauss said before the report. “It means there’s
going to be GDP growth coming from those sectors.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index (S5FINL) , which tracks
the performance of 81 companies, has risen 15 percent this year,
compared with an 11 percent increase in the broader  S&P 500 
Index. The S&P 500 rose 0.6 percent today to 1,398.62 at 2:20
p.m. in New York, heading toward the highest close in three
months.  U.S. Bancorp  U.S. Bancorp (USB)  posted its 11th straight year-over-year
increase in quarterly profit as revenue rose and the amount set
aside for bad loans declined, the Minneapolis-based bank
reported last month. Revenue climbed 8.1 percent to $5.07
billion from a year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer  Richard Davis , 54, has credited his
strategy of running a “boring” bank that takes deposits and
makes loans while avoiding volatile businesses such as
 investment banking .  Commercial and industrial loans at U.S. commercial banks
remained at a three-year high of $1.45 trillion for a second
week as of July 25, according to Fed data. The gauge of lending
has increased for the past eight quarters, the longest streak of
gains since the last recession ended in June 2009.  The residential real estate market is strengthening as
record-low  mortgage rates  lure buyers. Housing starts rose 6.9
percent in June to a 760,000 annual pace, the fastest rate in
almost four years, the Commerce Department reported July 18.
 Home prices  adjusted for seasonal variations rose 0.9 percent in
May from a month earlier, the biggest one-month gain since July
2009, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of values in 20
U.S. cities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  