-- Fellini’s Hat, Vermouth’s Hometown, Fatty Coxcomb: Travel
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-08-06T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/fellini-s-hat-vermouth-s-hometown-fatty-coxcomb-travel.html
We fell in love with Turin at a glove
shop.  We were following a walking tour in Eugenia Bell’s
excellent “Civilized Traveller’s Guide to Turin” when we spied
Moda del Guanto. The glove store’s old-fashioned cases of
drawers stacked high behind counters drew us in.  It’s hard to find men’s leather gloves in good colors. When
the sisters who own the shop pulled out a chartreuse pair with
orange fourchettes, we started to tremble.  Soon they’d unloaded every drawer. Their designs were
fresh; their work was perfection; their pride was clear; but
what really charmed us was their sweetness.  Italians will tell you that Turin (or Torino), the capital
of Piedmont in the far northwest and the home of  Fiat SpA (F) , is a
cold city, gray and industrial. When we were there it was sunny
and warm, and so was everyone we met.  At the sleekly futuristic  Baricole  -- Turinese for
“eyeglasses” -- I went through approximately 10,000 innovative
frames before finding the perfect pair. The salespeople behaved
as though they were delighted.  I was only sorry my face didn’t go with the pair whose
temples were embossed with the city skyline, recognizable at
once from the towering form of the Mole Antonelliana.  The Mole, Turin’s weirdest building, was begun as a
synagogue in 1863, then given to the city. Today it houses the
splendid Museo Nazionale del Cinema.  Shadow Puppets  The first part covers the medium’s pre-history -- shadow
puppets, magic lanterns and other such devices. Everything’s
interactive, so it feels more like being in an arcade than like
having an educational experience.  The second part is a riot of posters, memorabilia
(Fellini’s hat and scarf) and scores of clips. You can recline
next to strangers on a rather decadent round sofa and watch love
scenes projected overhead. Or, from a sea of chaise longues in
the cavernous main hall, each fitted with its own speakers, you
can lose yourself in the dreamy images on two movie-palace-size
screens.  Turin is, in fact, a city of museums. The much-loved  Museo
Egizio  has so many statues of the lion-headed goddess Sekhmet
that it sometimes feels like a zoo.  Currently the masterpieces of the Galleria Sabauda are
being moved into a new setting in the Royal Palace, so only the
greatest hits are on view. What a stroke of luck: no hunting
around corners for van Eyck’s “St. Francis Receiving the
Stigmata” or Gentileschi’s “Annunciation.”  Goods Delivered  Turin, where vermouth was invented in 1786, is also a city
of cafes. The  Caffe San Carlo  (opened in 1842) and the  Caffe
Torino  (opened in 1903) are like two elaborately overdressed
streetwalkers competing for clients on the enormous Piazza San
Carlo: They may be aging and expensive, but they still know how
to deliver the goods.  There’s a finer view from the tables in front of  Pepino 
(better known for its ice cream), on the Piazza Carignano. They
face the winged and undulating Palazzo Carignano, the city’s
most beautiful building.  It’s made of a material not often associated with Baroque
grandeur: red brick. In the back part, the  Museo Nazionale del
Risorgimento Italiano  looks onto the Piazza Carlo Alberto.
Nietzsche wrote “Ecce Homo” across the street -- as a plaque
attests -- and then went mad. Illuminated at night, it’s even
more beautiful than the Piazza Carignano.  But nothing is more beautiful than the food.  Teeth Unnecessary  A taxi drove us out to the deceptively modest-looking
Osteria Antiche Sere (“Ancient Evenings”), where we plunged
into an orgy of veal.  It started with a plate of lusciously raw meat (a local
staple), followed by juicy veal agnolotti (ravioli, basically)
and then a dish of veal “brasato” -- braised in Barolo, the
region’s great red wine, to a consistency that rendered teeth
unnecessary.  The endearing Santa Polenta (try to guess the specialty),
also a good choice for the toothless, is even more casual, with
paper plates and plastic flatware. You order at the counter and
wait in a dining room adorned with unmatched chairs and homey
knickknacks to be summoned back.  There’s nothing casual about the polenta. We asked about
the unusual spices and learned that the flavor comes from an
heirloom variety of corn grown outside Alba, an hour away. Our
accompaniments, salt cod and marinated vegetables, couldn’t have
tasted better on silver spoons.  Supremes Goddess  At the  Taverna dell’Oca  (the “Goose’s Tavern”) we sat
outside, across from a pretty little park presided over by a
goddess in a stop-in-the-name-of-love pose.  Our inexpensive lunch -- tuna carpaccio, tajarin (the
region’s ubiquitous thin egg noodles) with asparagus, and perch
with a light lemon-orange sauce -- was so good that we came back
to try the restaurant’s special goose dinner.  It began with a plate of poultry in pork drag: goose
prosciutto, goose salami and so on. Then came a risotto made
with foie gras and pears that was sweeter and even more
delicious than it sounds, followed by chewy slices of goose
breast (I’ve never had goose that melts in your mouth) scented
with porcini mushrooms and black truffles.  La Finanziera  It was there that we finally tried the traditional
Piedmontese dish known as La Finanziera. (According to one
theory, it was named for the financiers who used to order it at
the  Ristorante del Cambio , on the Piazza Carignano, where it has
been on the menu for 200 years.)  It has three principal ingredients: fresh mushrooms, veal
innards and -- if I haven’t lost you already -- coxcombs. I’d
never (knowingly) eaten coxcombs and was taken aback by their
spiky little contours (though after they’re peeled and cooked
they’re white, not red).  They turned out to be meltingly fatty and delicate, and the
dish, scented with carrots and braised in Barolo, was the single
most delectable thing we ate in Turin.  Information: To order Eugenia Bell’s Turin guide, click
 here .  Moda del Guanto, Via Santa Teresa 19; tel. +39-011-540-596;
 http://www.modadelguanto.com .  Baricole, Via Maria Vittoria 15; tel. +39-011-836-234;
 http://www.baricole.it .  Museo Nazionale del Cinema, Mole Antonelliana, Via
Montebello 20; tel. +39-11-8138-560 or -561;
 http://www.museocinema.it .  Museo Egizio, Via Accademia delle Scienze 6; tel. +39-011-
561-7776;  http://www.museoegizio.it .  Galleria Sabauda, Via Accademia delle Scienze 5; tel. +39-
011-547440;  http://www.artito.arti.beniculturali.it .  Caffe San Carlo, Piazza San Carlo 156; tel. +39-011-532-
586;  http://caffesancarlo.it .  Caffe Torino, Piazza San Carlo 204, Torino; tel. +39-011-
545-118;  http://www.caffe-torino.it .  Pepino, Piazza Carignano 8; tel. +39-011-542-009;
 http://www.gelatipepino.it .  Palazzo Carignano, Via Accademia delle Scienze 5 ;tel. +39-
011-564-1733;
 http://www.artito.arti.beniculturali.it/palazzo_carignano.html .  Museo Nazionale del Risorgimento Italiano, Via Accademia
delle Scienze 5; tel. +39-011-562-1147;
 http://museorisorgimentotorino.it .  Osteria Antiche Sere, Via Cenischia 9; tel. +39-011-385-
4347.  Santa Polenta, Via Barbaroux 33; tel. +39-011-561-2226.  Taverna dell’Oca, Via dei Mille 24; tel. +39-011-837-547;
 http://www.tavernadelloca.it .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on television.  To contact the writer of this column:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 