-- Ferguson Misses Match to Tie Up Van Persie, Moura Deals: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-06T06:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/ferguson-misses-match-to-tie-up-van-persie-moura-deals-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Ferguson Misses Match  Alex Ferguson  missed Manchester United’s scoreless draw
against Valerenga in Norway yesterday so he could try to push
through the 20 million-pound ($31.2 million) signing of Arsenal
captain Robin  van Persie , the  Daily Mail reported .  United expects to sign the Dutch striker before its Aug. 19
season opener and also may acquire Brazilian attacking
midfielder Lucas Moura in the coming days, the newspaper added.  Fee Agreed  Finalizing a deal to sign Moura, who is set to feature in
tomorrow’s Olympic semifinal between  Brazil  and  South Korea  at
United’s Old Trafford stadium, was probably the reason Ferguson
missed the trip to Oslo, the  Independent reported .  United is said to have agreed on a fee for the Sao Paulo
player and has been given permission to hold talks with the 19-
year-old, the newspaper added.  Mancini Gives Up  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  said that he
doesn’t expect to sign van Persie, who was his top transfer
target, the  Sun reported .  “Van Persie? No, I don’t think he will come here,” the
Sun cited Mancini as saying late yesterday.  Arsenal’s Alternative  Arsenal is considering a bid for Olympiakos striker Kevin
Mirallas as a potential replacement for van Persie should he
leave, the  Mail reported .  The Belgian forward, who can play out wide or up front and
scored 20 goals in 25 Greek Super League games last season, is
available for 6.4 million pounds and also has been scouted by
Liverpool, the newspaper added.  ‘Not Stalled’  Chelsea defender  Ashley Cole  denied speculation that talks
over a new contract at  Stamford  Bridge have stalled and that he
was demanding wages of 200,000 pounds a week, the  Sun reported .  “Contract talks have not stalled just started, and 200k
are you for real, I’d never ask for that,” the Sun cited Cole
as writing on his Twitter feed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  