-- Fracking Linked to `Small' Earthquakes, Scientist Says
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-08-06T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/fracking-linked-to-small-earthquakes-scientist-says.html
Fracking may cause more earthquakes
than initially thought, according to an article in this week’s
 Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .  At least 59 “small-magnitude” earthquakes of 1.4 to 2.5
magnitude occurred over a two-year period ending in September in
the Barnett Shale region of  Texas  that were never reported by
the National Earthquake Information Center, said  Cliff Frohlich ,
a senior research scientist at the Institute for Geophysics at
the  University of Texas  at Austin.  Many of those earthquakes happen when fluids are injected
into the ground to release natural gas, a process called
hydraulic fracturing that may also relieve the friction between
tectonic plates, said Frohlich, who wrote the article. The  U.S.
Geological Survey  typically collects data for seismic events at
least 3.0 in magnitude.  “Rather than just looking at earthquakes when a crash
happens, let’s go look for ones that may not be bothering people
and see if there are trends,” Frohlich said in a telephone
interview.  These “triggered” events may be exacerbated by fracking
along  fault lines , and differ from “induced” events that
happen solely because of human actions, such as a man-made lake
weighing down and compressing a land mass, Frohlich said.  He used seismological data from  EarthScope USArray , 400
connected seismographs spaced 70 kilometers (44 miles) apart.
They’re relocated within the U.S. every two years and were in
Texas from November 2009 through September 2011.  “I can’t study the whole country, but one field at a time
I can go in and say, ‘This is what the data say,’” he said.  More research on triggered events is needed to better
understand what causes them and how they may be avoided,
Frohlich said.  “The data’s freely available,” he said. “A junior high
school student could download the data and do what I did -- if
they were familiar with seismology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  