-- Fulcrum BioEnergy Gets U.S. Guarantee to Make Ethanol From Trash
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-08-06T21:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/fulcrum-bioenergy-gets-u-s-guarantee-to-make-ethanol-from-trash.html
Fulcrum BioEnergy Inc. (FLCM) , a U.S.
biofuel company that’s planning an initial public offering,
received a $105 million conditional U.S. loan guarantee for its
first commercial facility.  Fulcrum’s Sierra BioFuels Plant will be 20 miles (32
kilometers) east of Reno,  Nevada , and may produce as much as 10
million gallons (38 million liters) of ethanol a year from
household garbage, according to a statement today.  The guarantee from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  is
part of an effort to fund the development of advanced biofuels
produced from renewable sources, according to the statement. The
agency has funded seven other projects seeking to develop
systems to produce fuel from non-food feedstocks, including
agricultural residue, wood biomass, trash and algae,  Fulcrum, based in Pleasanton,  California , registered Sept.
22 to raise as much as $115 million in an IPO to partially fund
the $180 million Sierra plant.  The IPO is one of several funding options the company is
considering, Rick Barraza, the company’s vice president of
administration, said today in an interview. “We’re still
looking to raise equity capital either through an IPO or private
sources,” he said. “We’re going to look at all avenues,
whether it’s private or public capital.”  Construction may begin next year after the company
completes the loan guarantee and arranges bank financing,
Barraza said.  The loan guarantee “allows us to secure private bank
financing at reasonable prices and with favorable terms,”
Fulcrum Chief Executive Officer James Macias said in the
statement. The offer would guarantee 80 percent of the $105
million loan, USDA said.  Waste Management Inc. (WM)  and  Waste Connections Inc. (WCN)  will
supply the trash that the plant will process, and Tenaska
Biofuels LLC will purchase all of the fuel it produces for three
years, according to a June 13 Fulcrum filing.  Fulcrum’s biofuel will help refiners meet a U.S.
Environmental Protection  program  that requires them to blend 36
billion gallons of biofuels a year with their products by 2022.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  