-- U.S. Gymnasts Need Assist in Making ‘Fab Five’ Nickname Windfall
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-08-06T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/gabby-douglas-needs-a-jalen-rose-assist-for-fab-five-windfall.html
Gabby Douglas and her four U.S.
women’s gymnastics gold-medal teammates will need some help from
a former National Basketball Association player before they can
cash in on a “Fab Five” nickname.  Jalen Rose, a member of the  University of Michigan ’s “Fab
Five” basketball team of 1991, was granted the trademark for
the term last year, according to the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office website.  For the last week the phrase -- as well as the moniker
“Fierce Five” -- has been associated with the gymnasts who won
the team gold medal at the London Olympics and are preparing for
an endorsement windfall.  “If you’re Jalen Rose, you’ve got a real opportunity
here,” said attorney Pamela M. Deese, a partner at the
Washington law firm Arent Fox who assisted NBA player Jeremy Lin
with his “Linsanity” trademark. “It makes sense for him to
approach the women’s gymnastics people.”  Rose was a member of  Michigan ’s freshman class that
included fellow NBA players Chris Webber and Juwan Howard, as
well as Jimmy King and Ray Jackson. The group reached the men’s
college basketball championship game as freshmen and sophomores,
losing both times. ESPN made a documentary about the basketball
team called “Fab Five.”  A Google search of the term “Fab Five gymnastics” yields
almost 1.6 million results.  The 39-year-old Rose, a basketball analyst with  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN, wasn’t available for comment, according to network
spokesman Ben Cafardo.  ‘Fierce Five’  USA Gymnastics spokeswoman Luan Peszek said in an e-mail
that the organization will use the Fierce Five catchphrase for a
reason unrelated to trademark restriction.  “The girls liked Fierce Five,” she said.  A Google search of the term “Fierce Five gymnastics”
yields 931,000 results.  Fierce Five is available, according to the patent and
trademark office. The term was trademarked by DreamWorks
Animation and abandoned in 2009.  Paul J. Reilly of the  New York  law firm  Baker Botts , the
attorney listed on Rose’s trademark filing, said in a telephone
interview that he hadn’t “talked to Mr. Rose about any of
this.” He declined further comment.  Cereal Box  Douglas, 16, the first black gymnast to win the Olympic
all-around title and a member of the gold-medal U.S. team,
stands to make $1 million to $3 million a year in endorsements,
according to Bob Dorfman, executive creative director at San
Francisco-based Baker Street Advertising. She already has an
endorsement agreement with  Kellogg Co. (K) , which put the gymnast on
the cover of its cornflakes box.  Douglas and her Olympic teammates will make a base salary
of more than $100,000 each for participating in the 40-city
Kellogg’s Tour of Gymnastics Champions that begins Sept. 8 in
 San Jose ,  California , and ends Nov. 18 in  Brooklyn , New York.  A message left at Kellogg’s media relations department
seeking comment on whether the company would be interested in a
“Fab Five” trademark license wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  