-- Gibson Guitar Settles Criminal Claims Over Ebony Wood
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-06T15:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/gibson-guitar-settles-criminal-claims-over-ebony-wood.html
Gibson Guitar Corp. settled U.S.
allegations that it illegally bought protected species’ wood for
manufacturing instruments, ending a criminal probe and
forfeiture proceedings in federal court in  Tennessee .  Gibson, based in Nashville, Tennessee, will pay $350,000 in
penalties and agreed to implement a compliance program. The
company also will withdraw its claims to about $261,000 of ebony
and rosewood from India and Madagascar seized during the
investigation, according to a statement today by the U.S.
Justice Department.  “Gibson has acknowledged that it failed to act on
information that the Madagascar ebony it was purchasing may have
violated laws intended to limit overharvesting and conserve
valuable wood species from Madagascar, a country which has been
severely impacted by deforestation,” Ignacia Moreno, head of
the department’s environment and natural resources division,
said in the statement.  A raid on the company by U.S. agents in August incensed Tea
Party groups and Republican lawmakers such as House Speaker  John Boehner , who called it an example of overreaching by big
government.  Wearing bulletproof vests, agents from the Justice and
Homeland Security Departments sent workers home and seized
almost 100 guitars and boxes of raw materials, Chief Executive
Officer Henry Juszkiewicz said in an interview last year.  The agents were investigating possible violations of the
Lacey Act, enacted in 1900 to curb illicit trafficking in fish
and wildlife. The law was expanded in 2008 to make it a crime to
import plants and plant products taken illegally.  The so-called criminal enforcement agreement frees Gibson
from criminal charges for violations of the Lacey Act as long as
the company doesn’t violate the agreement over the next 18
months.  Ed James, a spokesman for Gibson, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call and an e-mail message seeking comment on
the settlement.  The forfeiture cases are U.S. v. Ebony Wood in Various
Forms, 10-cv-00747; U.S. v. 25 Bundles of Indian Ebony Wood, 11-
cv-00913; and U.S. v. Indian Ebony and Rosewood, 12-mc-00014,
U.S. District Court, Middle District of Tennessee (Nashville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 