-- GM China Sales Gain 15% on Minivans; Chevy Deliveries Fall
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-06T06:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/gm-china-sales-gain-15-on-minivans-chevy-deliveries-fall-1-.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the biggest
foreign automaker in  China , said deliveries in the nation rose
15 percent last month, led by demand for its Wuling minivans.  Deliveries of cars and minivans rose to 199,503 units in
July, according to a statement on the automaker’s  website today .
Sales at SAIC-GM-Wuling Automobile Co., the venture that makes
Wuling mini-commercial vehicles, climbed 27 percent to 98,694
units last month, according to the statement.  GM, outsold worldwide by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  in the first
half, is increasingly counting on demand from China after U.S.
sales unexpectedly fell last month and losses from  Europe 
widened. The Detroit-based automaker said this month it
continues to gain market share in the world’s biggest vehicle
market amid intense competition and price cutting. Even so, a
reliance on Wuling minivans could pressure GM’s profit margins
in China, according to industry researcher LMC Automotive.  “Wuling users are usually small business people or
farmers,” said  John Zeng , an analyst at LMC Automotive in
Shanghai. “The Wulings compete at a very low-end segment and
they compete on price.”  GM said on Aug. 2 net income margins in China fell in the
second quarter as a “significant” share of its sales growth
came from less-profitable mini-commercial vehicles that include
the Wuling minivan, whose retail price starts at 34,000  yuan 
($5,336).  Chevrolet Sales Fall  Sales at Shanghai General Motors Co., the venture with  SAIC
Motor Corp. (600104)  that makes Buick and Chevrolet cars in China, rose
5.7 percent to 97,064 units in July. Chevrolet sales fell 2.8
percent.  For the first seven months, GM’s total sales to dealerships
rose 12 percent 1.62 million units.  GM had three of the 10 most popular passenger vehicle
models in the first half of the year, including the bestselling
Buick Excelle and second-placed Chevrolet Sail, according to the
state-backed China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  Chevrolet and Buick sales account for 10 percent of China’s
total light vehicle market, data from industry researcher LMC
Automotive show. GM’s biggest competitor is Wolfsburg, Germany-
based  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , whose brands have 19 percent market share.  Rising Competition  Stiffer competition in China this year has led to
discounting and a buildup in inventory. The average passenger-
vehicle price fell 1.9 percent in June, the National Development
and Reform Commission said in an e-mailed statement on July 16.  Net income margins at GM’s Chinese joint ventures fell 1.8
percentage points from a year earlier to 9.3 percent in the
three months to June, Chief Financial Officer Daniel Ammann said
in an earnings conference call on Aug. 2.  China’s passenger-vehicle sales to dealerships rose 7.1
percent in the first six months to 7.61 million units, according
to the auto association. Demand will probably accelerate in the
second half to rise 15 percent to 8.48 million units, driven by
strong demand from first-time buyers and as economy rebounds,
the association said July 26.  China doesn’t make public vehicle registration data, making
it difficult to track end-user auto demand. The auto association
and individual carmakers report wholesale deliveries, or sales
to dealerships.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in  Shanghai  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  