-- GoldenTree Hires Goldman Sachs Trader Salem in Mortgage Push
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-08-06T19:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/goldentree-hires-goldman-sachs-trader-salem-in-mortgage-push-1-.html
GoldenTree Asset Management LP, the
$15.7 billion hedge fund specializing in corporate credit, hired
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  trader Deeb Salem as the firm expands
its mortgage-bond team.  Salem started at New York-based GoldenTree this week, Chief
Investment Officer Steven Tananbaum said today in an interview.
Salem, who left the bank in May, was among the Goldman Sachs
traders who handled its bets against subprime mortgages as the
debt collapsed in 2007, at one point trying to manipulate prices
of derivatives tied to the loans, according to a  report  last
year by a U.S. Senate panel. Salem denied wrongdoing.  Asset managers including Canyon Partners LLC, Brevan Howard
Asset Management LLP and D.E. Shaw & Co., known for betting in
markets such as real estate, government notes or company
debentures, have been wagering on mortgage securities as
potential returns narrow elsewhere, accelerating gains in
housing debt. The $1 trillion market for U.S. home-loan bonds
without government backing offers “probably the most upside in
structured products,” though carries more risk than notes such
as collateralized loan obligations tied to companies’ health,
Tananbaum said.  “The mortgage space for us is a good opportunity, and
we’re building up our team,” he said today during an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker 
and  Stephanie Ruhle .  Junk Yields  Salem, who was Goldman Sachs’s head trader of non-agency
mortgage securities without guarantees from government-backed
 Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac  or Ginnie Mae, declined to comment, as
did  Michael DuVally , a spokesman at the New York-based bank.  Low benchmark interest rates have forced investors to look
down the credit spectrum to seek assets with higher returns.
Speculative-grade company bonds yielded 7.5 percent Aug. 3
before accounting for potential defaults, down from 8.5 percent
at the end of 2011, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. High-yield corporate loans offered 6.6 percent Aug.
3, down from a high this year of 7.2 percent Jan. 3, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  Subprime-mortgage bonds yield 7.5 percent after anticipated
losses for debt with projected average lives of at least seven
years, JPMorgan estimates. The yields are quoted on a loss-
adjusted basis because homeowner defaults and refinancing mean
the securities usually aren’t outstanding until maturity. Yields
will be greater if forecasts for foreclosures, recoveries or
refinancings among the underlying loans prove too pessimistic.  Subprime Securities  Returns on senior subprime securities from 2005 through
2007, the years that produced the most defaults, have averaged
more than 26 percent this year, Barclays Plc index data show.  Salem joined Goldman Sachs in 2001, according to  records 
maintained by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which
don’t show him involved in any regulatory actions, civil
lawsuits, criminal matters or customer complaints.  During the mortgage meltdown in 2007, he was the bank’s
lead trader of single-name credit-default swaps referencing
residential-mortgage-backed securities, according to the 2011
report by the Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.  His group was “able to learn from our bad long position at
the end of 2006 and layout the game plan to put on an enormous
directional short,” Salem said in a 2007 self-evaluation
excerpted in the report. “The results of that are obvious.”  ‘Short Squeeze’  Company documents also showed Goldman Sachs traders led by
Michael J. Swenson sought to encourage a “short squeeze” by
putting artificially low prices on swaps that would gain in
value as mortgage securities fell, the panel said. The idea,
abandoned after market conditions worsened, was to drive holders
to sell and help the bank buy at reduced prices, according to
its report.  “We began to encourage this squeeze, with plans of getting
very short again,” Salem said in the self-evaluation. “This
strategy seemed do-able and brilliant, but once the negative
fundamental news kept coming in at a tremendous rate, we stopped
waiting for the shorts to capitulate, and instead just
reinitiated shorts ourselves immediately.”  In interviews with the committee, Salem and Swenson, his
supervisor, denied attempting a short squeeze. Salem “claimed
that he had wrongly worded his self-evaluation,” according to
the report. “He said that reading his self-evaluation as a
description of an intended short squeeze put too much emphasis
on ‘words.’”  Client Interests  The committee cited the episode as an example of how
Goldman Sachs traders placed its interests ahead of clients as
the value of mortgage investments tumbled. The panel, led by
Senator Carl M. Levin, a Michigan Democrat, and  Tom Coburn ,
Republican of  Oklahoma , called on regulators to craft strict
bans on proprietary trading and conflicts of interest to keep
the problems from recurring. The bank has denied wrongdoing.  During the Bloomberg Television interview, Tananbaum said
that changes at Wall Street banks are making it easier to poach
employees. “The firms’ behavior has changed and because of that
they’re more open-minded,” he said. Salem is an “honest,”
“high-integrity guy,” he added in an interview after the
appearance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  