-- Golf Pros Welcome Chance to Become Newest Olympians at Rio 2016
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-06T23:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/golf-pros-welcome-chance-to-become-newest-olympians-at-rio-2016.html
The world’s top golfers will be
playing for a major title this week as the London Olympics wind
down. In four years, they’ll be going for gold in Brazil.  The sport returns to the Olympic program in  Rio de Janeiro 
in 2016 and in a host city yet to be determined in 2020. Like
basketball and tennis, professionals will take part in the
competition.  “It’s going to be very special if I can represent my
country,” said American Dustin Johnson, who finished ninth at
last month’s British Open. “Being an Olympian is about being an
athlete and being part of something that’s bigger than you and
the sport.”  Johnson, 28, and Spain’s  Sergio Garcia , 32, were both in
London for a July 23 Olympic golf event in which they hit balls
to a floating green in the River Thames. With two of the biggest
events of the golf season looming, they couldn’t stick around
for the start of the London Games four days later.  The game’s top pros played in the World Golf Championships
Bridgestone Invitational in  Ohio  last weekend and now head to
Kiawah Island,  South Carolina , for the year’s final major at the
U.S.  PGA Championship .  Missing Action  That leaves television and the Internet as the main way for
the golfers to follow the action in London. For some, it’s also
meant missing out on the world’s biggest sports event in their
own backyard.  “I’ll be in America the duration of the Olympics,”
England’s  Lee Westwood , No. 4 in the Official World Golf
Ranking, said at the British Open. “So it’s a shame. I would
have liked to have gone.”  One player who did make it to London was third-ranked Rory McIlroy. The Northern Irishman visited the Olympic Village
before heading to Ohio, where he finished fifth, accompanied by
his girlfriend, tennis player  Caroline Wozniacki , who was
competing for  Denmark .  “It was the first time I’d been close to the Olympics in
any way, and it’s completely different than anything I’ve ever
been at before,” McIlroy told reporters prior to the
Bridgestone Invitational. “I think for golf it’s great that
it’s in the Olympics.”  Golf was last included in the Olympics in 1904 at  St.
Louis . The  International Olympic Committee  added it back to the
program in 2009, along with rugby, after many of the top
professionals at the time, including  Tiger Woods , said they’d
like to play.  Three years later, Woods, a 14-time major champion, is
still eager for Olympic competition.  “I’ll be 40 by then,” he told reporters at the British
Open. “It will be something that I’ve never experienced. I
would love to be able to have a chance to represent my
country.”  Though golf has four major championships each year, along
with events such as the Ryder Cup, the Olympics would be a
unique addition to the season, according to Garcia.  Rio Course  “It’s going to be different to a major or a Ryder Cup,”
he said in London. “It’s going to be really exciting to be a
part of it, to meet some of the other athletes and to be part of
Olympic history.”  Golf’s proposal called for 72-hole men’s and women’s
competitions played over four days, with medals awarded to the
three lowest scorers in each field. It’s the same format used
for most professional tournaments around the world.  The course for the competition in Rio has yet to be built.
In March, Malvern, Pennsylvania-based Hanse Golf Design was
selected to construct the facility, with groundbreaking set for
October or November.  That “will put us well into the timetable we need to run a
test event prior to the  Olympic Games , probably in 2015,”  Peter Dawson , chief executive officer of the Royal & Ancient Golf Club
of  St. Andrews , which oversees the game outside of the U.S. and
Mexico, said during the British Open.  Johnson and Garcia both pointed to the 1992 Olympics in
Barcelona as their most vivid Olympic memories. For Garcia, it
was the fact the games were staged in his homeland, while
Johnson said he remembered the U.S. basketball “Dream Team.”  To Garcia, the chance to make his own Olympic memory is too
good to pass up.  “Being such a big fan of the Olympics, I think it would be
amazing,” he said. “I’m not saying it would be recognized as
winning a major, but to be able to participate in the Olympics
and win a gold medal would be one of the coolest things ever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 