-- Golf Ball to the Head Turns Cat Breeder Into Hot Vixen: Books
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-08-06T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/golf-ball-to-the-head-turns-cat-breeder-into-hot-vixen-books.html
Ann Wickers hasn’t been the same
since a stray golf ball hit her on the head.  A sometime cat-breeder and hotel housekeeper, she’s emerged
from a coma with the identity of a spoiled, oversexed
Frenchwoman named Frederique who loathes all things feline.  Life hasn’t gone smoothly for the celebrity golfer
responsible, either. Once as famed for his long hair as his
swing, Stuart Ransom is now broke, trapped in a lousy marriage,
and has such a bad case of the shakes that he’s been reduced to
using a belly putter.  Nicola Barker ’s baroque ninth novel, “ The Yips ,” takes
its title from a malaise most often seen on the putting green.
Those same jittery symptoms become ubiquitous as she draws
together a series of messy, stalled lives to farcical and often
touching effect.  While its opening scene is suggestive of a surreal joke --
golfer Ransom, an aspiring vet who’s flunked her exams and a
cancer survivor descended from a famous fortuneteller are all
gathered in a bar -- readers shouldn’t hold out for the punch
line.  Instead, the novel mimics a golfer’s leisurely progress
round an 18-hole course, with digressions on everything from
burqas to the charms of South Korean sportswomen. A coherent
plot remains elusive, though its characters provide subplots
knotty enough that you almost don’t notice.  Take Valentine, for instance, Ann’s agoraphobic daughter
who dresses like a 1940s pinup and is a tattoo ace, renowned for
her ultra-realist inking in a place so intimate it’s painful to
describe.  Family Affairs  Valentine must care for her niece while her brother and his
girlfriend deal with addiction issues, and also keep the family
financially afloat following the death of her father, who
happened to be a neo-Nazi.  She’s taken a shine to Gene, who has beaten cancer seven
times and is married to Sheila, a Church of England priest who
found God on a train just as the drinks trolley came trundling
down the aisle.  Then there’s the lippy teenage barmaid, the hands-on Muslim
sex therapist and Ransom’s heavily pregnant Jamaican manager.
The chaos is part of the novel’s charm. It’s apt, too, since in
a way each character is searching for direction -- for a sense
of his or her own plot.  Though it meditates plenty on faith, if it’s about anything
“The Yips” is about celebrity, whose allure is shown to have
corrupted numerous aspects of modern life. As Ransom puts it,
“Bottom line: the life of a professional sportsman is all about
the spiel.”  Buzz, Chatter  Culture is not immune, either. “Art’s all about the
gesture -- the moment -- the event,” Sheila tells Valentine as
she explains a plan that, were this a different novel, would tie
up its myriad loose ends. “You know: the buzz -- the chatter --
the conversation,” she adds.  Chatter and conversation are what Barker herself excels at,
and “The Yips” is told largely through dialogue. There is
uppercase ranting and italicized disbelief, a scattering of
profanities and a pronounced scatological tendency. For the most
part, though, she works with the rhythms -- and inanities -- of
everyday parlance.  Barker’s World  She enjoys physical details, too, be it Ransom tugging at
his underarm hair as he attempts to think or a barmaid’s chapped
upper lip. What you won’t find here is much of a sense of time
or place. Notionally set in 2006 in Luton, an unlovely airport
town just north of  London , like Barker’s previous novels it
takes place primarily in a world that is hers alone.  For all her originality, she remains a distinctively
British voice, her antic energy drawing on writers from Chaucer
to P.G. Wodehouse and Martin Amis. This latest novel is more
disciplined than some of its predecessors, and appears on the
long list for this year’s  Man Booker Prize . It is zany,
tenderhearted and unflagging in its determination to entertain.
If only Barker hadn’t gotten so lost in the rough.  “The Yips” is published by Fourth Estate (548 pages,
18.99 pounds).  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on TV and James Pressley
on  business books .  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 