-- Greece Agrees With Troika on Need to Strengthen Policy
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-08-06T11:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/greece-agrees-with-troika-on-need-to-strengthen-policy.html
Greece  and its international
creditors agreed on the need to strengthen policy efforts to
support the economy and comply with its bailout terms after
nearly two weeks of meetings in Athens.  Representatives from the so-called troika of the European
Commission,  European Central Bank  and  International Monetary
Fund  met with Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras in Athens
yesterday at the conclusion of the meetings. The talks will
determine whether Greece continues receiving funds from the
country’s 240 billion euros ($297 billion) of rescue packages.  “The discussions on the implementation of the program were
productive and there was an overall agreement on the need to
strengthen policy efforts to achieve its objectives,” the
troika institutions said in a joint statement yesterday.
Inspectors from the country’s creditors will return to  Athens  in
early September to continue the talks.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras on Aug. 1 wrenched
agreement from the two party leaders supporting his coalition
government on the need to determine 11.5 billion euros of budget
cuts for 2013 and 2014 to keep the international rescue funds
flowing. That package must be completed by early September,
before a meeting of finance ministers from the 17-nation euro
area, a Greek Finance Ministry official, who asked not to be
named, said after yesterday’s meeting.  Samaras Meeting  Samaras is set to meet with the leaders of his coalition
supporters at 4 p.m. today. They are due to discuss the progress
made on the budget saving package as well as state-asset sales.  The Athens benchmark general index rose 1.5 percent to
607.17 at 2 p.m. in Athens. European stocks rose and the
region’s shared currency erased gains after Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  told  Germany ’s Der Spiegel magazine that
disagreements within the 17-nation euro area are undermining the
future of the currency bloc. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added
0.2 percent. The euro slid 0.3 percent to $1.2354.  “We made a lot of good progress,” IMF representative Poul Thomsen said in Athens. “We’ll take a break now and come back
in early September.”  Five-Year Recession  Greece is in its fifth year of a recession that has been
worsened by the austerity measures to cut a  budget deficit  that
reached more than five times the euro-area’s limit in 2009,
sparking the continent’s debt crisis. The country conducted the
biggest sovereign-debt restructuring in history this year before
elections in May and June plunged it into political turmoil and
put its place in the euro bloc at risk.  “This weekend’s headlines are positive but it does not
mean that Greece is out of the woods,” said Thomas Costerg, an
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London . “Greece is
running a marathon, not a 100 meter race, and the finish line is
still far away.”  A request for a new funding package would run into
“bailout fatigue” which is high in creditor countries, while
the “willingness to provide further lifelines is low,” he
said.  Samaras has faced discord from the leaders supporting his
coalition over reluctance to immediately press for more time to
implement the budget measures. A two-year extension to the
current economic reform plan would likely require more funding
support.  Troika Meeting  The troika representatives have been in Athens since July
24, meeting with ministers and political leaders to determine
whether Greece is meeting the conditions to get the next batch
of funds.  The country risks running out of money without the
disbursement of 4.2 billion euros that was initially due in June
as the first instalment of a 31 billion-euro transfer.  Greece will sell 625 million euros of 26-week Treasury
bills tomorrow. The country may sell 6 billion euros of such
bills this month, 2 billion euros more than initially planned,
and tap bank recapitalization funds in order to cover its
financing needs, Kathimerini reported on Aug. 1, without saying
how it got the information.  The government is seeking funding to pay 3.2 billion euros
of redemptions for bonds held by the ECB that mature Aug. 20,
the Athens-based newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  