-- Growth Hormone May Stem Cognitive Decline in Elderly
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-08-06T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/growth-hormone-may-stem-cognitive-decline-in-elderly.html
Healthy older adults and those with
mild cognitive impairment given a drug that spurs hormones
important to normal brain function had improved concentration,
decision-making skills and verbal memory, a study found.  The healthy adults given  Theratechnologies Inc. (TH) ’s Egrifta,
a drug that spurs the release of human growth hormone, had
executive function improvements that were more than 100 percent
greater than those in a placebo group, while verbal memory
improvements were 50 percent greater, said Laura Baker, lead
author of today’s study in the  Archives of Neurology .  The growth hormone is released from the brain and
stimulates others that are important for normal brain function,
Baker said. The system of hormones decline as people age.
Today’s findings offer a possible new treatment for the aging
brain of healthy older adults as well as those with  mild
cognitive impairment , who are at an increased risk of developing
Alzheimer’s disease, she said.  “Very few other strategies to improve cognition in these
adults have demonstrated success,”  Baker , an associate
professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at the
 University of Washington  School of Medicine in  Seattle , said
today in an e-mail. “This strategy of supplementing one hormone
that can then impact several other hormones represents a new
approach that targets an entire biological system to restore
function to that of a younger adult.”  Further Research  More studies are needed to look at the safety and efficacy
of long-term use on cognitive function in older adults before
doctors can start prescribing it as a treatment, she said.  About  5.4 million  Americans have Alzheimer’s, the most
common type of dementia, and by 2050 that number is expected to
grow to as many as 16 million, according to the  Alzheimer’s
Association . The number of people worldwide with the condition
is expected to swell to  115 million  by 2050.  Egrifta, marketed in the U.S. by  Merck KGaA (MRK)  of Darmstadt,
 Germany , is used to reduce excess abdominal fat in HIV patients.  The drug mirrors a hormone that also is important in
regulating the amount of insulin-like growth factor, IGF-1,
which is released from the liver and crosses into the brain,
Baker said. In humans, increased IGF-1 in the blood is
associated with better performance on cognitive tests. Lower
levels of the growth factor have been reported in patients with
dementia, she said.  Study Group  Researchers in the study included 137 adults, 61 with mild
cognitive impairment, with an average age of 68. Patients either
injected themselves with Montreal-based Theratechnologies’
 Egrifta  or a placebo 30 minutes before going to sleep for 20
weeks.  They found that 20 weeks of taking the drug increased IGF-1
levels in the blood to that of a young adult and had a positive
effect on executive function and short-term verbal memory for
healthy older adults and those with mild cognitive impairment.
Short-term visual memory didn’t improve with the treatment, the
authors said.  For those with mild cognitive impairment whose cognition is
expected to worsen over time, the brain abilities of those who
took the growth hormone didn’t drop as much as those in the
placebo group, Baker said.  The results show that the treatment “has benefits in
cognition not only for healthy older adults, but also for adults
at increased risk for Alzheimer’s dementia,” she said. Today’s
study was supported by the U.S. National Institutes of Health
and the U.S. Department of  Veterans Affairs .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  