-- ICBC Sees Hong Kong Retail Unit Growing as Yuan Role Expands
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-08-06T05:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/icbc-sees-hong-kong-retail-unit-growing-as-yuan-role-expands-1-.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd.  plans to expand its  Hong Kong  retail bank by 15 percent to
30 percent annually in the next three years as China’s yuan
becomes more widely used in the city.  “We want to transform ourselves into a large-scale lender,
from a midsized bank,” Ying Weiyun, assistant chief executive
of  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  (Asia) Ltd., said on
Aug. 3. “If the yuan gains equal importance with the  Hong Kong
dollar  in five or 10 years, we will have a chance.”  The four closest mainland rivals of parent company ICBC,
the world’s most valuable lender, have also set up operations in
Hong Kong, a gateway from China to the international banking
market. The city has emerged as the first offshore hub for trade
in the  yuan  as China’s government seeks to promote its use in
international commerce and investment.  Ying, 42, said the 15 percent to 30 percent expansion goal
refers to indicators such as assets and branches.  ICBC (Asia) 
plans to add eight branches and hire more than 100 people by the
end of next year, expanding its network in the city to 60 and
employees in its outlets to more than 700, he said.  The bank had total assets of HK$405 billion ($52 billion)
for all of its businesses at the end of last year.  Market Dominance  Hong Kong’s banking market is dominated by  Bank of China
Ltd.  unit BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd.,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
Standard Chartered Plc, which issue the city’s banknotes.
Together with  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11) , controlled by HSBC, the
lenders had a combined 68 percent of outstanding home loans in
July, according to mReferral Mortgage Brokerage Services.  ICBC, China’s largest bank, and  China Construction Bank
Corp. (939) , the second-biggest, are “relatively new here” compared
with  Bank of China , the No. 3 lender on the mainland, said
Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based managing director at China
Merchants Securities Co.  “They have a chance to grow big, but the Hong Kong market
is competitive,” he said. “While they are growing, the other
banks are also growing. They won’t stop and wait for you.”  ICBC ( Asia ) seeks to bolster revenue by winning cross-
border business and serving private banking clients with more
than HK$10 million in assets, Ying said.  Options traders have cut bearish wagers on parent ICBC to
the lowest in 19 months on speculation earnings at the world’s
most profitable lender will increase as the Chinese government
acts to boost growth. The ratio of outstanding puts to sell ICBC
versus calls to buy dropped to 1.12-to-1 on Aug. 3 and touched
1.08 on July 27, the lowest level since December 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Private Banking  Shares of ICBC  rose 1.6 percent to HK$4.57, the highest in
two months, in Hong Kong trading, at 1:02 p.m. The benchmark
 Hang Seng Index  gained 2 percent.  The Hong Kong unit’s private banking center, which covers
Asia and the  Middle East , is expected to double the number of
clients this year, Ying said, without disclosing the current
level.  ICBC, the world’s most profitable lender, made its first
overseas acquisition in 2000 when it paid $231.5 million for
control of Union Bank of Hong Kong Ltd., the predecessor of ICBC
(Asia). ICBC had 239 overseas institutions operating across 33
countries last year, rising 18 percent from a year earlier,
according to its  annual report .  “Despite their still-robust growth prospects at home,
Chinese banks have been compelled to expand overseas,” Standard
& Poor’s analysts Ryan Tsang and Qiang Liao wrote in a July 30
report. “ China ’s huge trade surplus and its position as a major
destination for foreign direct investment have translated into
excessive liquidity in the domestic market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  