-- Time Warner Said to Buy Bleacher Report for Under $200M
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-08-06T17:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/time-warner-acquisition-of-bleacher-report-sports-site-approved.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Turner
Broadcasting System division, bolstering its online sports
coverage, acquired the Bleacher Report website for less than
$200 million, a person familiar with the deal said.  The acquisition was confirmed by both companies in a
 statement  today, following its approval by the Federal Trade
Commission last week. The person with knowledge of the
transaction asked not to be identified because the financial
terms aren’t being disclosed.  Time Warner’s Turner Broadcasting, which owns the cable
networks TNT, TBS and  CNN , is trying to capitalize on its sports
programming by expanding online. The broadcaster recently agreed
to a $10.8 billion rights deal with CBS Corp. to broadcast NCAA
college basketball games. Bleacher Report will play an important
role in that event, both with editorial coverage and advertising
opportunities, according to  David Levy , president of sales,
distribution and sports for Turner.  “We have a portfolio of sports offerings at Turner, and
this reflects our continuing commitment to bring content across
screens,” Levy said in an interview.  Turner had managed ad sales for sister company  Time Inc. ’s
 Sports Illustrated  website, though that effort ended last year.
Turner continues to oversee the NBA.com, PGA.com and NCAA.com
websites.  Better Fit  “Managing Sports Illustrated’s online ad sales --
honestly, we gave a run at it, and ultimately we found it was
better off for both cultures to go at it in different
directions,” Levy said. “We found that Bleacher Report fits
more in line with Turner’s culture.”  The two companies have been talking about a merger for more
than six months, Levy said.  Bleacher Report , founded in 2006, has about 10 million
visitors a month and gets its content from more than 6,000
contributors -- most of whom write for free -- who churn out
more than 1,000 articles a day. The San Francisco-based startup,
run by Chief Executive Officer Brian Grey, has raised about $40
million in  venture capital .  The deal lets Bleacher Report “take advantage of all the
assets and expertise that  Turner Sports  has,” Grey said in an
interview. The startup may increase its current full-time staff
of 135 and start taking Turner’s library of sports clips and
stream them online.  Founders of the company, including Bryan Goldberg, Dave Finocchio and Dave Nemetz, will remain at Bleacher Report, Grey
said.  Grey, formerly a general manager of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports
Interactive Media, will stay on as CEO, with the added title of
senior vice president at Turner Sports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  