-- In Egypt, Anti-Semitism Is Back in Fashion
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-08-06T22:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/in-egypt-anti-semitism-is-back-in-fashion.html
A travel tip for the international
executive class: If you find yourself doing business in  Egypt 
and you feel the urge to insult your interlocutor, 1) try not to
insult your interlocutor; and 2) if you must, cast aspersions on
the chastity of the person’s mother or sister. This insult will
be taken hard, but it may eventually be forgiven.  Whatever you do, don’t accuse the person of being Jewish.
That may cause an irrevocable breach, and could even provoke
violence.  Anti-Semitism, the socialism of fools, is becoming the
opiate of the Egyptian masses. And not just the masses. Egypt
has never been notably philo-Semitic (just ask Moses), but today
it’s entirely acceptable among the educated and creative classes
there to demonize Jews and voice the most despicable anti-
Semitic conspiracy theories. Careerists know that even fleeting
associations with Jews and Israelis could spell professional
trouble.  The level of anti-Semitism in Egypt has consequences, of
course, for Middle East peace and for the safety of Jews. But,
importantly, it has consequences for the welfare of Egypt
itself. The revolution that overthrew the country’s dictator,
 Hosni Mubarak , held great promise, but it also exposed the
enormous challenges facing Egyptian politics and culture. And
anti-Semitism, if nothing else, has always been a sign of a
deeply damaged culture.  As Walter Russell Mead has  written  on his blog, countries
“where vicious anti-Semitism is rife are almost always backward
and poor.” They aren’t backward and poor because the Elders of
Zion conspire against them. They’re backward and poor because,
Mead argues, they lack the ability to “see the world clearly and
discern cause and effect relations in complex social settings.”
He calls anti-Semitism the “sociology of the befuddled.”  Pathological Entertainment  Egyptian television is filled with such sociology. One
popular series depicts an Egyptian diplomat stationed in  Tel
Aviv  who robs Israeli banks on the side. The show was promoted
by a Middle East satellite channel, which claimed that it would
“surprise the audience with the sweetest jokes about the cheap
Jew.”  A television show called “Il Hukm Ba’d il Muzawla,” a kind
of “Candid Camera” knockoff, provides further evidence that
Judeophobia in Egypt has become pathological. The show lures
celebrities into an interview under the pretense that it will
air on a foreign television station, and then tries to discomfit
them by claiming they’re actually being interviewed for an
Israeli show.  Recently, the show targeted actor Ayman Kandeel. The
episode didn’t proceed as smoothly as planned. According to a
 translation  by the Middle East Media Research Institute, the
interviewer, an Egyptian woman named Iman Mubarak, surprises
Kandeel by admitting that he’s appearing on Israeli television,
and not German, as he was promised. A producer named Amr Alaa
appears on set and asks Kandeel if there’s a problem.  Kandeel responds, “May I ask who you are?” Alaa, who is
Arab, answers, “I am an Israeli.” More words are exchanged, and
then Alaa says: “This is my channel. I am never afraid. It is
you who are afraid, and that is why you are carrying a gun.”  “I don’t have a gun,” Kandeel responds. “To use my gun
against you, I need to feel that you are worth something. But
let me tell you what I can do. You stand right here. Relax.”  Kandeel then attacks Alaa, slapping him and shoving him,
throwing chairs and cursing. He wheels on Mubarak, slaps her --
knocking her against a wall -- and curses her. A staff member
runs onto the set: “Ayman, please, it’s a prank. Shame on you
for hitting a woman.”  Kandeel is given Mubarak’s identification card, to prove
that she isn’t Israeli. Finally, he says, “She’s Egyptian?”  “You hit me so hard,” Mubarak says.  Kandeel: “It was just one slap.” The audience applauds.
Then he makes her an offer: “After the show, come to my car with
me. I’ll put some lotion on your back.”  ‘Long Live Egypt’  The next guest, the actress Mayer al-Beblawi, unburdens
herself of an anti-Semitic tirade before being told the show is
an Israeli production. The Israelis, she begins, “are real
liars. They keep whining all the time about the Holocaust, or
whatever it’s called. With all the Palestinians that you have
killed, you are still whining about the Holocaust and its lousy
figures?” She goes on: “They are the slayers of the prophets,
what else can we say about them.”  The host, Mubarak, then provokes her: “You’ve got it wrong.
They are the Chosen People.” Al-Beblawi responds: “The Chosen
People? Allah did not curse the worm and the moth as much as he
cursed the Jews.”  Al-Beblawi didn’t resort to violence. But the next guest,
Mahmoud Abd al-Ghaffar, did, screaming at Mubarak, “You are a
Jew!” and then pulling Alaa by the hair. Mubarak shouts:
“Mahmoud, this is a ‘Candid Camera’ show. We are all Egyptians.
Long live Egypt!”  Al Ghaffar says, “You brought me someone who looks like a
Jew,” and then hugs Alaa. He turns to Mubarak: “If you weren’t a
girl, the moment you told me you were Jewish ... I hate the Jews
to death.”  Mubarak then makes a statement that captures almost
perfectly the moral perversion of the prank: “I’d like to tell
you that I enjoyed today’s episode with Mahmoud. I didn’t know
that there could be such patriotism, but it exists in every
Egyptian who breathes the air of this country.”  In a column published last week, the Washington Post’s
Colbert King correctly  indicted  the leadership of  Iran  as
sponsors of “the most virulent form of state-sanctioned anti-
Semitism since  Nazi Germany .” It is true that the Iranian
leadership is wildly anti-Semitic, but, on my visits to Iran,
I’ve never personally felt the hatred of Jews on the popular
level.  Not so in Egypt, where the virus has spread widely. As we
just saw in the Sinai region, where militants killed 16 Egyptian
soldiers and tried to storm across the Israeli border on Aug. 5,
Egypt has serious problems, and they don’t have much to do with
“cheap Jews.”  Any country in which anti-Semitism is considered a form of
patriotism is in dire trouble.  (Jeffrey Goldberg is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how governments should brace
for  rising sea levels  and on  Knight Capital and computerized
trading ;  Mark Buchanan  on  using Google to find risky banks ;
William Pesek on  rebuilding the tsunami zone  with microfinance;
 Ramesh Ponnuru  on improving  political TV shows ; Betsey Stevenson
and  Justin Wolfers  on the booming business in  empirical
economics ; Richard Cohen on  whether fourth is good enough  at the
Olympics; Caleb Scharf on how  massive black holes  regulate star
creation.  To contact the writer of this article:
 Jeffrey Goldberg  at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 