-- Indiana Farmer Puts Purchases on Hold as Drought Breeds Doubt
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-08-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/indiana-farmer-puts-purchases-on-hold-as-drought-breeds-doubt.html
For the three decades he’s been
farming on the western edge of  Indiana , Terry Hayhurst put most
of his energy into drying out his clay soil so his corn and
soybeans could thrive.  This year things are different. Hayhurst is farming right
in the heart of the 2.5 percent of the country that is in
“exceptional drought” -- the worst rating. A combination of
little rain and record heat has roasted corn crops, dried up
ponds and streams and caused farmers like Hayhurst to postpone
purchases of everything from grain bins to smartphones.  “I’ve never seen it this dry,” Hayhurst, 51, said as he
pushed through a stunted stand of corn and pulled back the husks
on ears with a smattering of isolated and desiccated kernels.
Some plants are “firing,” or drying out from the ground up
from the excessive heat; others are being attacked by fungus.
Those may not produce a thing.  Hayhurst’s story illustrates the ripples that the drought -
- the worst in more than a half century -- is causing through
the American economy. Farmers who had enjoyed record incomes
last year now are delaying purchases, and food and feed prices
are rising. Southwestern Indiana, a state in which crop and
animal production  totaled  $10.5 billion in 2010, and areas of
Illinois and  Kentucky  are facing the worst of the drought. The
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  has declared more than half the
counties in the country natural-disaster areas.  Little Rain  In Terre Haute, 11 miles north of Hayhurst Farms, daily
high temperatures were above average every day but one in July,
and topped 100 Fahrenheit (38 Celsius) on 11 days, compared with
an average high in the mid-80s, according to the  National
Weather Service . Rainfall this year has been 13 inches (33
centimeters), less than half the norm as of Aug. 2.  Hayhurst, who had record profits on revenue of about
$900,000 last year, is scrambling to prevent a disaster. The
1,200-acre (486 hectare) farm he has run in partnership with his
parents and sister since he graduated from  Purdue University  in
1984 sold off its hog business in 2010, and now is largely
dependent on what can be teased from the soil.  The Hayhurst farmstead is a metal-sided collection of
barns, empty hog sheds and corn-storage bins, surrounded by
pancake-flat fields set off by stands of trees acting as wind
breaks. In recent years, the couple added a new screened-in
porch to their home, and rebuilt a massive machinery shed that
was destroyed by fire.  Sorghum-Sudangrass  In July, Hayhurst made a last-second substitution, deciding
to sow a heat-resistant sorghum-sudangrass instead of soybeans
on 20 acres, so that he’ll have more feed for his 35 head of
Hereford cattle, part of the farm that is largely a labor of
love. On the soybeans he did sow, he applied extra herbicide as
the plants weren’t growing fast enough to cover the soil and
prevent weeds from popping up.  And every few days he refills a 2,500-gallon tank on the
back of a 1976 International Loadstar to haul water out to his
cattle. The ponds and pastures they have used for 25 years are
drying up.  “We never had the ponds down to where we even had to think
about water,” he said in a daylong interview at the farm, which
has been in his family since 1942. The calves born in March are
going to be weaned early, and put on corn feed in the barn to
save on water and hay demands, he said.  Hayhurst wants to keep the cows thriving, as rising feed
costs have caused ranchers to begin selling off their cattle,
depressing beef prices. Next year, he figures, prices for meat
will bounce back up, as smaller herds mean less supply.  ‘Trickle Down’  The family is cutting back on expenses. Hayhurst planned to
buy a $20,000 wet-storage grain bin and a $22,000 grain cart,
which is pulled behind a tractor to help expedite the harvest.
Neither purchase is going to happen -- now.  “Farmers are putting plans on hold until they see what
happens,” Greg Strohm, a salesman at Bane Equipment in Terre
Haute, said in an interview. Bane sells Case IH combines and
tractors, which are made by a subsidiary of  Fiat SpA. (FIAT)  “It will
trickle down and we won’t see the full effect for six months to
a year.”  Companies like Bane have a nice cushion to help them
weather the downturn: “The last couple of years have been good
years” as farmers thrived, he said.  A week ago, Susan Hayhurst, Terry’s wife of 23 years, sat
down with the couple’s two teenage daughters and let them know
“it’s going to be a lean year.”  Lillian, Hayley  “You have to be prepared that when you have dollars in
your pocket, they have to go a long way,” Susan said she told
Lillian, 19, and Hayley, 16. “There will be food on the table,
but do not expect all the bells and whistles.”  Added Terry, “Thank goodness Lily has a full-ride”
scholarship at the local two-year campus of Ivy Tech, where she
studies agriculture.  Terry and Susan are looking at replacing their prehistoric
flip mobile phones with new smartphones, which could deliver
corn prices directly to Terry’s hands while he is driving the
tractor. For now that upgrade is on hold, as well.  Some things are necessities: the family’s annual trip to
the Junior National Hereford Expo in Grand Island,  Nebraska ,
went on as planned last month, where their cow Butterscotch was
Reserve Grand Champion. This week they are showing their prize
Herefords at the Indiana State Fair in Indianapolis.  No Insurance  Many of Hayhurst’s neighbors buy government-subsidized crop
insurance, which already is paying out as some sandier, drier
fields are declared a total loss and the crop is cut down.  For Hayhurst, whose fields have been so consistently
productive that he shuns insurance, plowing the crop under isn’t
an option. He’s invested as much as $700 an acre of seeds,
fertilizer, chemicals and rent on some land, and he needs to
pull whatever he can out of that field now.  “We need to live off that revenue,” he said.  Rising prices also provide some opportunities. Hayhurst is
still holding on to 5,000 bushels of corn from last year, and
monitoring the local markets for the right moment to sell. He
thinks prices may hit $10 a bushel.  The grain touched a record $8.205 a bushel on July 31 on
the Chicago Board of Trade, surging 27 percent for the month, as
the drought tightened its grip on the Corn Belt. Soybeans gained
15 percent and wheat 17 percent.  “Everybody thinks corn will keep going up,” Hayhurst
said. Hayhurst is still hoping that his fields will yield 100
bushels an acre of corn, about half what he got last year and
budgeted for at planting time. Matched with rising prices, that
would mean 2012 is not a total disaster. Getting that yield,
though, requires some good rains this month.  “It depends on the rainfall from here on out,” he said.  Market Watching  Hayhurst, in fact, spends much of his time monitoring
markets. He begins each morning with a coffee and check of the
Chicago Board of Trade prices in the converted chicken coop that
serves as his office. And while he describes himself as
“conservative,” in one way or another every day he is making a
bet about those markets.  At the beginning of the year he contracted 40 bushels per
acre of corn to the local grain elevator in nearby Shelburn,
which is owned by Gavilon Group LLC. He wanted to lock in prices
of $5 to $6 a bushel, in case a record corn crop materialized
and prices fell. He’s got 20 bushels of soybeans per acre sold
off, too.  Soybean Worry  It’s that soybean pledge that has him most worried now. If
no rain falls in the coming weeks, the flowering plants won’t
produce pods, or the pods may be empty. He’s never had to buy
out of a future position before, and he’s not sure what it would
cost him to do it now.  Justin Monger, the grain-elevator manager for Gavilon in
Shelburn, said most farmers in the area will be lucky to pull
even those yields from their fields. In a banner year the
elevator can hold and ship 10 million bushels of grain out to
chicken farmers for feed and ethanol producers.  “If we get a third of that this year, I’d be surprised,”
Monger said in an interview. “I’m trying to get as many bushels
as I can.”  For Hayhurst, how many bushels there will be is still very
much an unknown. While the corn in his fields won’t grow any
more kernels, the ears that are there could plump up with some
strong rain showers. What’s left for him to do now is hope and
pray.  “We can do the tillage, the planting and the harvesting,”
he said. “The rest is for God to take care of.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ; 