-- Indonesia Withstands Europe Woes as Growth Accelerates: Economy
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-08-06T07:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/indonesia-economic-growth-exceeds-estimates-as-investments-surge.html
Indonesia ’s economic growth
unexpectedly accelerated as rising investments countered
declining exports, reducing pressure for monetary easing as the
nation withstands Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Gross domestic product  rose 6.37 percent in the three
months ended June 30 from a year earlier, the  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said in Jakarta today. That compares with a revised
6.32 percent gain for the first quarter and the 6.1 percent
median estimate of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Indonesia’s growth is the fastest among Group of 20 nations
after  China , even as the faltering global recovery hurt its
currency and damped expansion in neighbors from  Taiwan  to
 Singapore . Investments accounted for 32.9 percent of GDP last
quarter, the highest share since the Asian financial crisis,
underscoring President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s success in
boosting confidence more than a decade after the nation sought
an International Monetary Fund bailout.  “Investment is being driven by strong business confidence
and low  interest rates ,” said Gareth Leather, an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “Given the poor outlook for
global demand and the likelihood that the crisis in the  euro
zone  will worsen again soon, we expect interest rates in
Indonesia to remain at their current record low level for the
rest of this year and next.”  The rupiah was little changed at 9,474 per dollar as of
1:34 p.m. in Jakarta, prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg showed. It has dropped for six months, its longest
losing streak since 1998, and is the worst performer this year
among the 11 most traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Rate Decision  Bank Indonesia  Governor Darmin Nasution and his board will
keep the benchmark  reference rate  at 5.75 percent on Aug. 9, all
but one of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast. One
predicted a quarter of a percentage point reduction. The central
bank has avoided adding to a February interest-rate cut to the
current  record low .  Policy makers from China to  South Korea  and the  Philippines 
lowered rates last month, a move Nasution may avoid amid the
risk of price pressures as the world’s largest Muslim population
observes the fasting period of Ramadan and the Eid al-Fitr
festival that marks its end.  Consumer prices rose 4.56 percent last month from a year
earlier, after climbing 4.53 percent in June, the statistics
bureau said Aug. 1. Bank Indonesia forecasts inflation of 3.5
percent to 5.5 percent in 2012 and 2013.  Inflation is accelerating elsewhere in  Asia  even amid signs
of easing growth momentum. Taiwan said today consumer prices
rose at the fastest pace in more than three years in July. In
 Australia , a private report showed job notices declined for a
fourth straight month in July.  European Disagreements  Disagreements within the 17-nation euro area are
undermining the future of the union, said Italy’s Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  as the stand-off on European Central Bank support
for Italian and Spanish debt hardened. Investor confidence in
the region probably fell further in August, the Limburg,
Germany-based Sentix research institute is forecast to say today.  Yudhoyono has pledged to build more roads, ports and
airport to achieve average growth of 6.6 percent by the end of
2014. In July, the central bank lowered its GDP forecast to
about 6.1 percent to 6.5 percent this year, from a previous
estimate of as much as 6.7 percent growth. The expansion may
about 6.3 percent to 6.7 percent in 2013, it said.  Indonesia’s growth last quarter is the fastest in the G-20
after China’s 7.6 percent. Many countries in the group haven’t
released data for the same period. Saudi Arabia’s economy
expanded 5.94 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier.  Rising Investment  While investment in Southeast Asia’s largest economy is
increasing and has bolstered imports, easing exports led to a
June trade deficit of $1.32 billion that data showed is the
widest in at least five years. Exports fell 16.4 percent in June
from a year earlier, while  imports  rose 10.7 percent.  Second-quarter growth was mainly supported by investment,
 government spending  and household consumption, while exports
slowed due to declining commodity prices as demand eased on
Europe’s debt crisis, according to the statistics bureau.  Investment climbed 24 percent to 76.9 trillion rupiah ($8.1
billion) in the three months ended June 30 from a year earlier,
M. Chatib Basri, chairman of the Investment Coordinating Board,
said July 25. The country is targeting foreign and local
investment of about 500 trillion rupiah in 2014, from as much as
290 trillion rupiah in 2012, he said in a Bloomberg interview.  Low interest rates have spurred loan growth and helped
commercial banks to post higher net profits. PT Bank Central
Asia, Indonesia’s biggest financial services company by market
value, reported a 10.5 percent gain in first-half net income to
5.3 trillion rupiah as lending increased 42 percent.  “Domestic demand should stay resilient,” said Eugene Leow,
a Singapore-based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. “Credit
growth has been well-supported. Other high frequency indicators
such as car sales have also remained robust, supported by rising
wealth and wage growth. In terms of investment, there have been
no signs of slowing thus far.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  