-- Tinkler Says He’ll Stick to A$5.3 Billion Whitehaven Offer
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-08-06T07:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/tinkler-says-he-has-no-plans-to-cut-a-5-3-billion-whitehaven-bid.html
Mining magnate  Nathan Tinkler  will
stand by his bid for Whitehaven Coal Ltd., which values the
target at A$5.3 billion ($5.6 billion), saying holders would be
unlikely to accept a lower offer.  “I don’t think the board would accept,” Tinkler, 36, said
in an interview in Sydney. “There comes a line where you’re
buying things at value and one where you’re not going to get a
deal done.”  Whitehaven, owner of seven coal mine assets in  Australia ,
was trading about 30 percent below the offer of A$5.20 a share
before the interview. Tinkler, Whitehaven’s biggest  shareholder ,
was considering lowering the price after its shares slumped and
coal prices weakened, two people with knowledge of the matter
said last month.  The electrician-turned-miner made the bid after  Whitehaven (WHC) 
disclosed an initial approach on June 13. The Tinkler Group Pty
offer is subject to a monthlong study of Whitehaven’s books.
Planned debt funding for the deal, with letters of support from
UBS AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc, is also dependent
on successful due diligence.  Whitehaven ended the day 3.1 percent higher at A$3.66 for
the biggest gain since July 19. Its shares have slumped 31
percent since the start of the year.  “The market is valuing assets very differently to how
long-term investors value them,” Tinkler said. “The market is
probably valuing things at half of what they’re really worth, in
particular when you have a suite of assets that are in
development.”  Express Interest  Tinkler’s group has advised Whitehaven that about 48.3
percent of the company’s shareholders had expressed interest in
becoming stakeholders in the new company, subject to a
satisfactory due diligence process, Whitehaven said July 13.
Another 16.7 percent of shareholders may also join, equating to
65 percent.  Tinkler has two main hurdles to overcome to get the deal
done, Paul McTaggart, a resources analyst with Credit Suisse,
wrote in an Aug. 2 note. The first is to convince 65 percent of
shareholders to transfer their Whitehaven shares into a company
that isn’t publicly traded and contribute further equity, he
said. The second is to raise an estimated A$1.85 billion to buy
out the remaining 35 percent of shareholders,  Assuming additional debt of A$1.85 billion, the company’s
gearing will rise to 70 percent, a level the company would find
“challenging” to support, McTaggart said.  Mine Sites  Bank representatives traveled to mine sites last week and
will determine how much they’ll lend, Tinkler said. The loan
will probably be somewhat lower than an amount of A$2.5 billion,
specified by two people familiar with the situation on June 18,
according to Tinkler.  “I’d be comfortable with a gearing level of about 40
percent to 50 percent,” he said. The new company would consider
selling stakes in its coal assets to help with funding,
including the key Narrabri and Maules Creek mines with potential
stake sales of an additional 10 percent, he said.  Benchmark Asian thermal coal prices have tumbled 28 percent
this year because of weaker demand in India and  China  as
economic growth slows. Prices have also been pressured by U.S.
producers increasing exports as plunging domestic gas prices
prompt utilities to switch to gas.  About 69 percent of Whitehaven’s production was thermal
coal in the year ended June 30.  Board Seat  Tinkler, who said he plans to take a board seat and control
40 percent to 60 percent in the new company, declined to comment
on which existing shareholders and potential new investors are
supporting the bid.  Commodities trader Noble Group Ltd., Farallon Capital
Partners, Credit Suisse AG and Kuok Group may be part of a group
making an offer, the Australian Financial Review reported June
14. Noble Chairman Richard Elman July 27 declined to comment on
his company’s involvement in the bid.  At A$5.20 a share, Tinkler’s offer is priced at 3.69 times
the assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with the median of 2.27 times for 10 comparable deals.  Softening prices for coal used in electricity generation
may crimp Whitehaven’s profit margins, Nomura Holdings Inc.
analysts David Cotterell and  David Radclyffe  said in a July 11
note.  Potential cost overruns on building the A$766 million
Maules Creek mine may also put pressure on the company, the
analysts said. The cost of building Maules Creek has risen by 6
percent, Whitehaven said last month.  Whitehaven’s independent board committee appointed to
examine bids after Tinkler’s initial approach is being advised
by Grant Samuel Corporate Finance and Corrs Chambers Westgarth.
UBS is advising Tinkler Group.  Sold House  Tinkler’s business journey began when he sold his house in
2006 to help buy the A$30 million Middlemount coal lease in
Australia’s Queensland state before selling it a year later to
Macarthur Coal Ltd. for about A$465 million in cash and shares.  In May 2008, Tinkler sold his Macarthur stake to
ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, at a profit of
about A$445 million. He then bought Maules Creek from Rio Tinto
Group for A$480 million in August 2010. Seeking funds to develop
the project, Tinkler listed Aston Resources, containing Maules
Creek, in August 2010, raising A$400 million.  Tinkler and his companies also own coal and metals mining
projects, infrastructure investments, a horse-breeding
operation, and the Newcastle Knights, a rugby league team in the
Australian coal port of Newcastle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  