-- Inside Trader Roomy Khan Testifies in Doug Whitman Trial
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-08-06T23:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/inside-trader-roomy-khan-takes-stand-in-doug-whitman-trial-1-.html
Roomy Khan , a key government
informant who twice pleaded guilty to passing inside information
to Galleon Group fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , took the stand as
a witness in the trial of Whitman Capital LLC’s Doug Whitman.  Under questioning today by Assistant U.S. Attorney
Christopher LaVigne in federal court in Manhattan, Khan told
jurors she traded on inside information and passed tips to
friends including Whitman, her former neighbor.  Prosecutors in Whitman’s insider-trading trial claim he got
non-public information about Google Inc. and  Polycom Inc. (PLCM)  from
Khan, a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive. Whitman made almost $1
million for his hedge fund from trading on illegal tips from
Khan and others, prosecutors allege.  Khan, who pleaded guilty to passing confidential company
information in 2001 and 2009, played a crucial role in the
government’s probe of  insider trading  at  hedge funds . Evidence
she provided helped prosecutors get authorization from a judge
to wiretap Rajaratnam’s mobile phone.  Khan testified for 40 minutes at the day’s end, describing
a history of passing tips and trading on inside information that
began with giving Rajaratnam Intel revenue figures when she was
an executive at Intel in 1997.  Needham Analyst  Khan, who said she met Rajaratnam when he was a senior
analyst for Needham & Co., a New York-based investment bank,
told jurors she contacted him when she became “disenchanted”
with her work at Intel and wanted a Wall Street job. Rajaratnam
told her he would hire her when Galleon opened a California
office. She said she started providing him with non-public Intel
revenue figures.  “He said to me ‘How’s business?’” Khan testified. “I
wanted to please him and I offered him the information.”  Khan testified she gave Rajaratnam Intel’s weekly “book-
to-bill” report, which contained orders and billing information
from the chipmakers’ top 20 customers.  “I was seeing approximately 80 percent of Intel’s
revenue” in the report, Khan said. “And from that you could
extrapolate Intel’s total revenue. So that is very powerful
information.”  Khan was later charged criminally and pleaded guilty to
 wire fraud  for leaking the Intel information. She served six
months home confinement and 3 years of probation, she told
jurors.  Federal Sentence  Rajaratnam was found guilty in May 2011 of all 14 criminal
counts against him. He’s serving an 11-year sentence in a
Massachusetts federal prison and is appealing his conviction.  Today’s appearance by Khan marked the first time she has
testified at trial as a witness for the government. She wasn’t
called to testify in Rajaratnam’s trial in  New York  federal
court last year.  Khan, who pleaded guilty separately in 2009 to  securities
fraud , conspiracy and obstruction of justice, faces as many as
30 years in prison when she’s sentenced, she told jurors.  Whitman denies the charges against him.  In an opening statement in the trial,  David Anderson , one
of his lawyers, told jurors that Khan and two other cooperating
witnesses testifying, Karl Motey and Wesley Wang, are lying to
avoid prison for their own admitted crimes.  Marvell Tips  Motey, an independent consultant hired by Whitman,
testified last week that he passed Whitman inside information
from two employees of  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  Prosecutors
have said the jury will hear from Wang, a Whitman friend and
consultant who said in his guilty plea said he passed tips about
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , Polycom and Marvell.  Khan told jurors Rajaratnam “was very friendly” when she
first called him at Needham, a New York-based investment bank
that specialized in technology and health-care companies where
he was a senior analyst. She said she was calling industry
analysts at the time to research Advanced Micro Devices Inc., an
Intel competitor.  Rajaratnam later hired her to work for Galleon in  Santa
Clara ,  California . She left the hedge fund “on very good
terms” in 1999, walking away with more than $40 million from
trading in Internet stocks for her own account, she said.  By 2005, she’d lost much of that money and her finances
“were fairly bad,” Khan told jurors. She got a job working for
Trivium Capital Management LLC, where she again traded on inside
tips and passed information to friends, she said.  Khan is scheduled to continue testifying tomorrow. She may
be on the witness stand for two days, lawyers for both sides
told U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff, who is overseeing the
trial.  The case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  