-- Hintz Sees Operational Risk Cost Rising Amid Knight Rout
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-08-06T19:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/hintz-sees-operational-risk-cost-rising-amid-knight-rout.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s trading
loss shows regulators may need to impose higher capital
requirements on financial firms as so-called operational risk
grows, said Brad Hintz, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst.  “Things happen, and as I have more and more complex
systems, with shorter and shorter time frames in terms of
execution, we’re going to have mistakes,” Hintz said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance” program with  Tom Keene .
“You’re going to have some questions in terms of operational
capital charges.”  Operational risk, the threat posed by human or computer
error, is eclipsing credit risk as the top concern at the U.S.
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the agency’s chief,
 Thomas Curry , said in a May 16 speech. “Some of our most
seasoned supervisors, people with 30 or more years of experience
in some cases, tell me that this is the first time they have
seen operational risk eclipse credit risk as a safety and
soundness challenge,” said Curry, whose office doesn’t regulate
broker-dealers like Knight.  Thomas Joyce, Knight’s chairman and chief executive
officer, is “absolutely” a hero to succeed in lining up $400
million of new capital five days after a software malfunction
spawned errant trades that caused $440 million of losses, Hintz
said. Joyce understood that Jersey City, New Jersey-based Knight
wouldn’t be viewed by regulators as “too big to fail” and
would go bankrupt without new capital, Hintz said.  ‘Small Enough’  “It’s small enough that it could have” failed, Hintz said
of Knight. “In a period of five days, he raised the capital so
that he could open up this morning, because without the capital
no one’s going to deal with the broker-dealer.”  Hintz compared Knight’s rescue to the 2008 takeover of Bear
Stearns Cos., which was acquired on the brink of bankruptcy by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Knight shareholders, like those at Bear
Stearns, had almost all of their stock value wiped out, while
creditors and counterparties weren’t harmed. One difference was
that JPMorgan’s purchase was aided by the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York, which didn’t play role in the Knight deal.  The broker-dealer agreed to sell $400 million of
convertible securities to six investors to shore up its capital
base, the company said today in a statement. The purchasers --
 Getco LLC , the automated trading business backed by General
Atlantic LLC, private-equity firm  Blackstone Group LLP (BX) ,
brokerages  Stifel Nicolaus & Co. (SF)  and  TD Ameritrade Holding Co. (AMTD) 
and investment banks  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  and  Stephens Inc.  --
will get preferred stock that can convert to about 267 million
common shares at $1.50 a share.  Knight fell 24 percent to $3.09 at 2:28 p.m. in New York.
The shares have plunged about 70 percent since the start of
trading Aug. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 