-- Investec’s Largest Investor Vetoes Directors’ Share Control
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-08-06T15:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/investec-s-largest-investor-vetoes-directors-share-control-2-.html
The Public Investment Corp. , Africa’s
largest fund manager, voted against some of  Investec Plc (INVP) ’s
proposals in protest over its acquisition strategy and executive
pay after the company’s returns lagged peers.  The state pension fund voted against a plan to allow the
bank and money manager to issue shares at an annual meeting last
week because of  Investec (INL) ’s “poor acquisition track record,”
Deon Botha, corporate governance specialist at the Pretoria-
based PIC, said in an e-mailed response to questions today. The
PIC also opposed resolutions relating to compensation “due to
the past couple of years’ exorbitant remuneration,” Botha said.  Shareholders vetoed three resolutions seeking to give
Investec the authority to issue shares that could be used for
acquisitions at the meeting on Aug. 2. Since Investec started
trading in the U.K. in 2002, it has spent 734 million pounds
($1.14 billion) on three all-stock acquisitions, including the
2007 purchase of subprime mortgage provider Kensington Group
Plc. Investec incurred writedowns after the mortgage-backed
 securities market  collapsed.  “Whilst the timing of Kensington was unfortunate, the
business has generated cumulative profits since acquisition,”
Ursula Nobrega, Investec head of  investor relations , said in a
statement today. “Rensburg Sheppards and Evolution in our view
are very good businesses and place us in the top five largest
private client fund managers in the U.K.,” Nobrega said,
referring to two other acquisitions.  Acquisitions  “The resolutions that were not passed do not hinder our
ability to make acquisitions,” Nobrega said. “Our focus is
currently on organic growth.”  Investec Chief Executive Officer Stephen Koseff was  South
Africa ’s best-paid banker in 2011, receiving 3.4 million pounds,
excluding share awards. Investec’s  return on equity  dropped for
a fifth consecutive year in fiscal 2012 to 7.8 percent, the
worst among South African banks. Koseff’s compensation fell by
87 percent for fiscal 2012 after the company cut his pay and he
asked not to receive a bonus. Investec’s compensation report was
approved at last week’s investor meeting.  While all  directors  were re-elected to their posts at
Investec’s annual general meeting, the PIC voted against the re-
election of Investec’s remuneration committee, Botha said. The
PIC, with about 1 trillion rand in funds under management, holds
more than 14 percent of Investec, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Zero Bonuses  In fiscal 2012 “three of the executive directors received
zero bonuses and two received zero salary increases and in
addition, awards under the share matching plan have been
forfeited for the executive directors as the earnings per share
performance conditions have not been met,” Nobrega said. In the
past decade, total pay for Koseff, Managing Director Bernard Kantor and Glynn Burger, the finance director, has declined by
3.3 percent on a compound annual growth basis, she said.  Investec has risen 14 percent in Johannesburg this year,
while the six-member FTSE/JSE  Africa  Banks Index has increased
24 percent. Investec’s 16 percent gain in the U.K. has
outperformed the FTSE 350 Banks Indexes’ 10 percent increase.
The  shares  rose 0.8 percent to 50.25 rand as of the 5 p.m. close
in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  