-- Iron-Ore Rout Seen Curbing Commodity-Ship Losses: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f   a n d   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-08-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/iron-ore-rout-seen-curbing-commodity-ship-losses-freight.html
The cheapest  iron ore  in 31 months
and the lowest shipping costs on record are poised to increase
the number of cargoes going to China, curbing losses for vessel
owners enduring a seven-month run of unprofitable rates.  Capesizes, each hauling about 160,000 metric tons of cargo,
will earn an average of $14,000 a day in the fourth quarter, the
most in a year, the median of six analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg shows. While that’s more than the $10,500 anticipated
by forward freight agreements, handled by brokers and used to
bet on future transport costs, it’s still less than the $16,700
owners need to break even.  The 34 percent slump in iron-ore prices in the past year
means some Chinese mines will start curbing output, according to
Morgan Stanley, the  U.S. bank  that ships the most commodities.
Declining domestic supply will spur the nation’s mills, making
about 46 percent of the world’s steel, to import more of the raw
material, the biggest source of cargoes for  Capesizes. (GNK)   “There will be a time when Chinese traders will come back
to buy iron ore,” said Philippe Van Den Abeele, the London-
based managing director of Castalia Fund Management (U.K.) Ltd.,
an adviser to a hedge fund trading freight derivatives. “The
market is bad and there are too many ships, but we should have
support in commodity demand and a pick-up in rates. We believe
the fourth quarter will be busy.”  Capacity Glut  Capesize earnings plunged 82 percent to $4,417 since the
start of January because of a capacity glut, according to Baltic
Exchange data. Daily rates averaged $6,384, the lowest since at
least 2000, according to the London-based bourse, whose data are
used as benchmarks for about 75 percent of commodity cargoes.  Iron ore at the Chinese port of Tianjin last traded at
$116.60 a so-called dry ton and reached $115.20 on July 30, the
lowest price since December 2009, according to the Steel Index
Ltd., a unit of the McGraw-Hill Cos. Chinese mines start cutting
output when prices drop to $130 or less, Morgan Stanley
estimates.  When prices tumbled to $116.90 in October last year,
Chinese imports jumped 29 percent the following month, customs
data show. Capesize rates averaged $28,557 in the fourth
quarter, 67 percent more than in the previous three months.  China , which buys about 65 percent of all seaborne iron-ore
cargoes, has imported more in the second half than in the first
six months of every year but one in the past two decades, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Traders stockpile ore in the fourth
quarter because freezing weather disrupts ports in the following
three months, said Steve Rodley, London-based managing director
of Global Maritime Investments Ltd., which operates 64 ships.  Stockpiled Ore  Stockpiles at Chinese ports are already near their highest
level in at least two years, according to data from Shanghai
Steelhome Information, a research company based in the city. The
inventories of 99.4 million tons are equal to about 14 percent
of the nation’s annual imports estimated by London-based
 Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker.  Mills may also need less ore after growth in the third-
largest economy slowed for six quarters. Domestic prices for
benchmark hot-rolled coil steel, used for construction and
pipes, fell 14 percent to 3,615  renminbi  ($567) a ton this year,
according to Metal Bulletin Plc. Output exceeded 60 million tons
every month since March, when it was at the highest ever, data
from the Brussels-based World Steel Association show.  When steel prices fell 14 percent in September and October,
mills cut output for three consecutive months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Fewer Cargoes  Fewer ore cargoes would exacerbate the glut in shipping.
The Capesize fleet expanded 91 percent since 2008, when daily
rates as high as $233,988 spurred owners to order new vessels,
Clarkson data show. Outstanding contracts at ship yards are
still equal to 20 percent of existing capacity, according to  IHS
Inc. (IHS) , an Englewood, Colorado-based research company. The fleet
will grow another 14 percent this year as the number of cargoes
advances 4 percent, Clarkson estimates.  The glut extends to most types of shipping. The Baltic Dry
Index, reflecting costs across Capesizes and three other vessel
classes, declined 52 percent this year. Rates for very large
crude carriers, hauling about 2 million barrels of oil, dropped
70 percent, according to Clarkson. An index reflecting charges
for six types of containers fell 36 percent in the past year, a
gauge from the Hamburg Shipbrokers’ Association shows.  Cie. Maritime Belge SA, whose Capesizes account for 82
percent of its fleet capacity, will post a 16 percent decline in
 net income  to 78.97 million euros ($97.8 million) this year,
according to the mean of three analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Shares of the Antwerp, Belgium-based company are
little changed this year and will rise 11 percent to 19 euros in
12 months, according to the average of three  predictions .  Iron Content  “You could see some pretty significant growth rates in
imported ore,” John Wobensmith, the chief financial officer of
Genco Shipping & Trading Ltd., a New York-based owner of nine
Capesizes, told analysts on a conference call Aug. 2. “You’re
going to see imported ore displace Chinese ore more and more.”  China’s ore is about 20 percent iron, compared with more
than 55 percent in  Australia , making it more expensive to
extract, Deutsche Bank AG estimates.  Ore prices have to stay under $130 for several weeks before
Chinese mines shut down, according to Carlos de Alba, an analyst
at Morgan Stanley in  New York . They declined below that level on
July 17. Production costs in China are about $140 a ton, based
on the iron content of the ore, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts
led by Andrew Shaw in  Singapore  said in a July 11 report.  Steel Mills  Iron ore is the second-largest seaborne commodity after
crude oil, Clarkson data show. It accounted for 66 percent of
single-voyage charters for Capesizes in the past 12 months,
according to Fotis Giannakoulis, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in
New York. Chinese imports will expand 6.1 percent to 728.9
million tons this year as domestic output shrinks 20 percent to
329 million tons, Credit Suisse estimates.  “We’ve seen before that when the prices come down to this
level and remain at this level, it becomes very hard for
domestic iron ore producers in China to maintain production,”
said Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA
in Oslo whose recommendations on the shares of shipping
companies returned 29 percent in the past year. “There is
potentially going to be more interest for iron-ore imports.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  