-- Is Fourth Place Ever Good Enough in the Olympics?
-- B y   R i c h a r d   C o h e n
-- 2012-08-06T22:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/is-fourth-place-ever-good-enough-in-the-olympics-.html
In the men’s team foil, the last
 fencing  event of the Olympics,  Andrea Baldini  expertly delivered
the final touch to give Italy victory over  Japan , 45-39, and its
third gold medal.  Baldini also achieved a moment of redemption.  In 2008, after his win at the European championships, he
was accused of having taken a  banned drug . He strenuously denied
the claim, but was stripped of his victory and banned from the
games in Beijing. He was readmitted to competition the next
year.  Coming into the  Olympic Games  this year, Baldini was ranked
only 14th in the world, behind three other Italians. He was
selected for the team anyway. He responded by coming in fourth
in the individual foil -- several places above his two
compatriots -- and by being a reliable anchor in the team
victory. Many in the  ExCeL  arena knew his story, and were
delighted that he finally had his gold medal.  The American team ended with just a single bronze in
women’s team epee, compared with the haul of six medals -- a
gold, three silver and two bronze -- in Beijing, which was their
best performance ever.  Members of the U.S. squad will be disappointed, but when
they look at the overall picture, they shouldn’t be. Seth Kelsey
was fourth in the epee. The men’s foil team took fourth, as did
 Mariel Zagunis , the hot favorite in women’s saber, the event she
had won in  Athens  as a 19-year-old rookie and again in Beijing.
For Zagunis, particularly, defeat must be bitter. But  Dagmara
Wozniak , at her first Olympics, joined Zagunis in the final
eight. In the men’s saber  Tim Morehouse  and  Daryl Homer  also
reached the final eight.  Bright Future  In 2004, when women’s saber was introduced as a new Olympic
event, the  International Olympic Committee  did not raise the
number of gold medals for fencing overall, insisting that it
remain capped at 10. The 12 disciplines -- men and women’s foil,
epee and saber, team and individual -- were limited to six
individual and four team events per Olympics, with two team
competitions being dropped on a revolving basis.  This time there was no men’s team epee and no women’s team
saber. Instead, these two disciplines held special world
championships in April in  Kiev . The U.S. women sabreurs, as they
had done in Beijing, took bronze, while the men won their first
gold medal at team epee. Add those two medals to the bronze in
 London , and the U.S. team ranks behind only Italy,  China  and
 South Korea  (which has been the revelation of these Olympics
with two fencing golds and six medals in all) in the league
table of nations. The American men’s foil team, which so
narrowly missed a medal, losing to the Germans in a fight for
the bronze, has an average age of 20, installing it as immediate
favorite for the Rio Olympics in 2016.  So there was some reason for disappointment, but immense
hope for the future.  Other nations won’t be so sanguine.  France , for decades a
powerhouse, did not make a single semifinal, let alone gain a
place on the podium.  Germany , which led the world in the 1970s
and 1980s, scraped together only the one bronze, in men’s team
foil. Hungary won the individual saber, but was otherwise
nowhere. Russia, a major force from 1960 on, and more recently
the winner of three titles at last year’s world championships in
Sicily, had a couple of medals but otherwise performed so below
expectations that the team’s chief coach has already resigned.
Britain, No. 3 in the world in the early 1960s, hasn’t won an
Olympic fencing medal since 1964, and never looked as if it
would do so here.  European Decline  Among the European nations, only  Italy , which headed the
fencing medal table with three gold, two silver and two bronze,
will look back at London with satisfaction. Since the dawn of
the modern Olympic era, Italy has won 48 gold medals from
fencing, compared with 41 for France and 35 for Hungary. For all
three nations, fencing has produced more gold than any other
sport. It will be a hard way back for France and Hungary, given
the continuing success of the Chinese in all weapons, and the
brilliant performances of the South Koreans.  Last week, I spoke with Patrick Vajda, who in his day was
peerless as a fencing referee and respected for his fairness and
authority. He says that the current head of French fencing,
Frederic Pietruszka, is only now starting to overcome years of
lethargy by his predecessor.  Hungary  has a similar problem. It
doesn’t help that some of their best coaches have been lured
abroad.  Vajda’s day job is working for  Marsh , the event insurance
broker division of Marsh & McLennan Cos., which since 1992 has
provided protection at the Olympics. So far at these games,
things are looking good: Everything has opened on time, with no
unforeseen accidents, no freak bad weather, no serious security
problem. If Vajda could only insure against poor performances on
the piste, he would have plenty of takers.  (Richard Cohen, a five-time British saber champion, was on
the British team in four Olympics from 1972 to 1984. He is the
author of “By the Sword: A History of Gladiators, Musketeers,
Samurai, Swashbucklers and Olympic Champions.” The opinions
expressed are his own. Read  Part 1  and  Part 2  of his fencing
coverage for Bloomberg View.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how governments should brace
for  rising sea levels  and on  Knight Capital and computerized
trading ;  Mark Buchanan  on  using Google to find risky banks ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on  anti-Semitism in Egypt ; William Pesek on
 rebuilding the tsunami zone  with microfinance;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
improving  political TV shows ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin
Wolfers  on the booming business in  empirical economics ; Caleb
Scharf on how  massive black holes  regulate star creation.  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Cohen at  racohen12@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 