-- Ivory Coast Says Army Attacks Sought to Disrupt Independence Day
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 2012-08-06T17:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/ivory-coast-says-army-attacks-sought-to-disrupt-independence-day.html
Attacks on  Ivory Coast ’s military
were meant to disrupt security before a national holiday, with
officials looking into a possible link with a postponed
appearance by ex-leader  Laurent Gbagbo  at the  International
Criminal Court , according to a government official.  There’s a “will from the assailants to disrupt the
celebration of  Independence Day  so as to show security is
missing in the country,” Paul Koffi Koffi, the minister
delegate for defense, said today. Authorities are investigating
the proximity “of the attacks with the hearing of the former
president,” which had been scheduled for next week, he said.  At least five soldiers were killed and another is missing
after an attack on Akouedo, a base in Abidjan, the commercial
capital, at 3:30 a.m. today, he said in a phone interview. The
fighting lasted for three hours and one of the attackers was
killed, Koffi Koffi said.  The clash in the world’s biggest cocoa producer comes after
unidentified gunmen, dressed in army fatigues, killed five
soldiers yesterday in two attacks against an Abidjan police
station and an army checkpoint. The violence is extending a
decade of unrest and political crisis in the West African
nation, which began with a mutinous uprising of soldiers in
2002, which left the country divided between a rebel-held north
and a government-controlled south.  Medically Fit  At least 3,000 people were killed in post-election violence
sparked after Gbagbo refused to hand power to  Alassane Ouattara ,
who won a November 2010 vote. Gbagbo was arrested in April 2011
and faces war crimes charges at the International Criminal
Court. Akouedo was bombed by French and United Nations forces
during the conflict.  An appearance to confirm charges against him, planned for
Aug. 13, was postponed last week to allow the prosecution and
defense to submit observations on a medical evaluation meant to
determine whether Gbagbo is fit to stand trial, according to The
Hague-based court.  The death toll from today’s attack may be as high as seven,
with a dozen seriously injured, Bert Koenders, head of the
United Nations mission in Ivory Coast, said in an e-mailed
statement.  About 30 unidentified men entered the base through two
entrances and were wearing military fatigues as well as civilian
clothes, said Koffi Koffi. Some were arrested and some Ivorian
soldiers are being questioned, he said.  “There’s no doubt the attack has been carried out with the
help of soldiers inside the camp,” Koffi Koffi said.  Ouattara held a meeting with army and government officials
earlier in the day and “gave firm directions that aim to
reinforce security throughout the country,” Koffi Koffi said.  Ivorians celebrate 52 years of independence from colonial
ruler  France  tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan at 
 bmieu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  