-- Japan, Australian Stock Futures Rise on ECB Bond Buying
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-08-06T23:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/japan-australian-stock-futures-rise-on-ecb-bond-buying.html
Japanese and Australian stock futures
rose after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government backed
the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying plan, boosting the
outlook for Asia-Pacific exporters.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s No. 1
exporter of consumer electronics that gets a fifth of its sales
in Europe, added 0.4 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest miner, climbed 0.9 percent after metals prices advanced.
 Bradken Ltd. (BKN) , an Australian supplier of tools and services, may
be active after full-year profit topped estimates.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 8,740 in Chicago yesterday, up from 8,730 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,730 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200
Index advanced 0.3 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.1 percent in Wellington.  “Investors are hoping that Spain won’t request a full
bailout. That would clear the way for the ECB to buy bonds in
the secondary market,” said Stan Shamu, a market strategist at
IG Markets Ltd. in Melbourne, a provider of trading services in
stocks, bonds and commodities. “That’s still the main issue.
Merkel did allude to the fact that Germany will support the move
and that’s what was lacking last week.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge rose 0.2 percent yesterday after
Merkel’s government backed the ECB’s bond-buying plan announced
last week, according to spokesman Georg Streiter.  Bond Yields  Yields on Spanish and Italian bonds dropped amid
speculation the ECB will buy the securities in an attempt to
calm euro-region turmoil. Policymakers in Spain are resisting
pressure to formally request aid from the ECB.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which lists some stocks from
 emerging markets , gained 9.2 percent from this year’s lowest
level in June through yesterday amid speculation central banks
from the U.S. to China and Europe would step up efforts to
stimulate economic growth.  The regional benchmark traded at 12.2 times estimated
earnings, compared with 13.5 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 11.5 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will keep its benchmark
overnight cash rate target rate at 3.5 percent, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 27 economists ahead of
its decision today.  “The economy has shown some signs of stability,” said
IG’s Shamu. “The RBA is on course to stay on hold.”  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
climbed 0.4 percent yesterday and the London Metal Exchange
Index of prices for six industrial commodities including copper
and aluminum advanced 0.7 percent.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. rose 3.1 percent to 90.10
yesterday in New York, the most since May 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  