-- Japan’s Economy Can Get Bigger by Thinking Smaller
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-08-06T21:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/japan-s-economy-can-get-bigger-by-thinking-smaller.html
Muhammad Yunus  choked back tears as
he surveyed the wreckage: pulverized buildings, debris strewn
for miles along urban waterfronts, giant ships sitting atop
roads like discarded toys, macabre memorials to the thousands of
dead and missing.  The Nobel Peace Prize winner is no stranger to nature’s
wrath. In his native Bangladesh, earthquakes, floods, cyclones
and mudslides are a tragic way of life. But these scenes were of
another magnitude. The devastation surrounding him wasn’t
testing the mettle of a poor nation, but prosperous Japan.  That visit to the devastated northeast Tohoku region was on
March 11, the one-year anniversary of the nation’s worst
earthquake and tsunami on record. Like many, Yunus came away
haunted by an economic question: How can the Tohoku region not
only rebuild, but reinvent itself and thrive in a time of
austerity?  Yunus returned recently with an answer that may cause its
own tremors:  Japan  needs a microfinance industry.  The  Nobel Prize  was for Yunus’s role in promoting lending
to the poor, a group typically ignored by bankers. Tiny amounts
-- $20, $50 or $100 so a family can buy a cow to start a dairy
farm, or a mobile phone to open a communications business or
chickens to launch an egg company. In 1976, he founded  Grameen
Bank , which brought microfinance global.  ’Needed Everywhere’  What does any of this have to do with Japan? It is near the
top of national per-capita income tables, has one of the highest
savings rates, and Tokyo and  Osaka  are routinely in the running
for world’s most expensive city. Japan gives impoverished
 Bangladesh  billions of dollars in aid each year.  “It’s needed everywhere -- it doesn’t matter where you
are,” Yunus said in Tokyo on July 26. “When you come to a
disaster area like Tohoku, it’s all the more important. You have
to rebuild everything all over again. There’s no house, there’s
nothing.”  By “there’s nothing,” Yunus also means the general lack
of economic life in a region that was dying even before the
disaster. Take Rikuzentakata, which like many cities on Japan’s
rugged northeast coast was suffering from economic decline and a
shrinking population. When the tsunami hit, it killed 1,700 of
its 24,000 inhabitants and destroyed most of its downtown
buildings.  There was the expectation, however far-fetched, that the
disaster would be the kind of event that would topple the status
quo and complacency that has held Japan frozen in place for two
decades.  That hope has since been dashed by paralysis in  Tokyo  and a
return to the petty infighting that passes for political
leadership. That is prompting local officials to take matters
into their own hands. Rikuzentakata is working to create a
small, self-sufficient city that creates new jobs in renewable
energy to replace those lost to the decline of agriculture and
fisheries.  That is a long-term project, though. It is being hindered
by the central government’s failure to channel more money into
Tohoku communities, and by its reluctance to delegate spending
decisions to regional leaders. It is here where microfinance
might pay sizable dividends. Locals can pool their savings and
lend them out to would-be entrepreneurs -- $10,000 here,
$100,000 there.  “Certainly it’s worth a shot and could do some good and
restore flagging spirits in a region that is already feeling
forgotten only 17 months since the tsunami,” says  Jeff Kingston , the head of Asian studies at the Tokyo campus of
 Temple University  in Philadelphia.  Microfinance’s Merits  Kingston has spent time in Bangladesh learning the ins and
outs of microfinance. It can be a boon for households that lost
everything, with an added benefit: Microfinance tends to extend
more credit to  women  than other lenders.  “It could work because many people have lost their
collateral and might be considered poor credit risks, and women
are underutilized and they have skills associated with managing
their household finances,” Kingston says. “Tohoku is a
relatively poor region in Japan and enjoys strong social
cohesion, something that would be useful in monitoring how loans
are used and repaid.”  Microfinance-like currents are already stirring in Japan.
Tokyo-based  Music Securities Inc.  has set up small-lot lending
programs that helped sake brewers, coffee shops, musicians, fish
retailers and soy-sauce makers gain access to financing. Yet we
need to think bigger in a $5.9 trillion economy faced with a
surplus of liquidity and a dearth of credit.  Clueless Bureaucrats  Microfinance on a grander scale might enable the
northeast’s community leaders to steer around the paralysis in
Tokyo, where bureaucrats are impervious to their demands and
clueless about their needs. It would help local credit systems
gain traction in ways the Bank of Japan’s zero-interest-rate
policies can’t. Japanese need alternatives to banks, which
aren’t lending or offering creative financial products. Micro-
lending could help businesses and households steer around the
credit logjam.  Japan’s government should provide some startup cash to
supplement local savings. Given the huge sums of money it doles
out for  infrastructure projects  in Hokkaido and Kyushu in the
far north and south of the country respectively, the cost of
setting up a kind of Grameen Japan would be minuscule and the
risks limited.  Is that likely to happen? The odds aren’t great given how
averse Tokyo’s bureaucrats are to anything that smacks of
originality or setting a precedent. Yet Yunus showed it was
possible for poor people in Bangladesh to get the credit they
deserve. There’s no good reason to think the same can’t happen
in Japan.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how governments should brace
for  rising sea levels  and on  Knight Capital and computerized
trading ;  Mark Buchanan  on  using Google to find risky banks ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on  anti-Semitism in Egypt ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
improving  political TV shows ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin
Wolfers  on the booming business in  empirical economics ; Richard
Cohen on  whether fourth is good enough  at the Olympics; Caleb
Scharf on how  massive black holes  regulate star creation.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  