-- John Phelan, Who Led NYSE in 1987 Stock Crash, Dies at 81
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-08-06T12:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/john-phelan-nyse-chief-who-kept-calm-in-1987-crash-dies-at-81.html
John Phelan, who led the New York
Stock Exchange into the modern era of competition and huge
trading volumes and provided calm at the center of the storm
when stock prices crashed in October 1987, has died. He was 81.  Phelan died on Aug. 4 in New York, according to Frank E.
Campbell Funeral Chapel. No cause was given.  “John was an extremely generous and caring individual,
and as chairman of the New York Stock Exchange and throughout
his career John served our  capital markets , investors and all
market participants with outstanding professionalism, commitment
and integrity,”  Duncan Niederauer , chief executive officer of
what is now NYSE Euronext, said in a statement.  From 1975 through 1990, as vice chairman, president and
then chairman, Phelan steered the NYSE through a sometimes
painful period of growth, modernization and change.  Particularly affected were the specialists -- brokers
assigned to maintain fair and orderly markets by overseeing
trading in specific stocks at posts on the NYSE floor. As large
securities firms carried out their own trades of large blocks of
stocks, and electronic trading began matching buyers and sellers
automatically, the specialist’s once-preeminent role was forever
changed.  A onetime floor specialist himself, Phelan used his deep
history and personal ties to nudge the NYSE’s old guard to open
up what had long been a close-knit club.  Meltdown Warnings  During his tenure, the exchange spent hundreds of millions
of dollars on technology to make trading swifter and less prone
to error. It joined the computerized Intermarket Trading System,
which showed real-time bid and ask prices not just on the NYSE
but also on regional U.S. exchanges.  In 1986, Phelan began warning of a possible “meltdown” in
stock prices. His concern was sparked by the growing popularity
of both portfolio insurance -- stock-index futures used to hedge
positions -- and trading by computer programs.  “This whole business of portfolio insurance and  program
trading  was adding a magnitude of leverage that hadn’t been seen
in the modern marketplace,” he told Eric J. Weiner for “What
Goes Up,” a  2005 book  on Wall Street history.  The meltdown Phelan sensed coming arrived on what became
known as Black Monday, Oct. 19, 1987, when the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  lost 508 points, or 22.6 percent. As equities
plummeted, Phelan was among the public figures whose words and
actions were closely watched by a worried investing public.
“That was his shining hour,”  Felix Rohatyn , managing director
of Lazard Freres & Co., told the New York Times in 1990.  Staying Open  Even before trading opened that Monday morning, Phelan
summoned the heads of major firms to his office. Based on the
market’s weak performance the previous Thursday and Friday, and
a flood of sell orders received over the weekend, he prepared
for a difficult day.  “I said we expected a weak market with high volume, and
that we were opening all the systems early,” he recalled in a
2007  paper  for a Black Monday symposium held by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission Historical Society. “I
added, ‘No matter what happens, the exchange will stay open.’ We
would shut down individual stocks if severe imbalances occurred
in them. We would then indicate their new bid and offer prices
and get them open again. But under no circumstances would we
close the exchange.”  Arthur Levitt , who was chairman of the  American Stock
Exchange  at the time, said Phelan called him at one point that
day to report the NYSE was in fact about to halt trading. Phelan
called back to say there would be no halt, Levitt said.  No ‘Panic’  At 4:30 p.m. in New York, 30 minutes after trading ended
for the day, Phelan held a press conference with other NYSE
officials. His choice of words and confident tone would draw
widespread praise.  “I don’t think the word ‘panic’ is correct,” he told one
reporter. Asked his opinion on the cause of the selloff, he said
“five years of a  bull market  without a correction,” plus
higher  interest rates  and expectations of higher inflation, had
“hit a very nervous market.”  Tim Metz, in his  1988 book  on Black Monday, wrote of the
press conference, “This is a time for statesmanship, for class.
And Phelan is at the top of his game.”  “His voice is steady, and his delivery clearer and less
hurried than the New Yorkese he speaks offstage,” Metz wrote.
“Far from seeming frightened or even nervous, he projects an
offhandedness that no one would take for studied. The worst
disaster in stock market history and Phelan is practically
laconic about it. The image is perfect.”  Called Meeting  The next day, with losses continuing into late morning,
Phelan walked to the trading floor and found “a stillness
there,” he told Weiner. “It was almost as if everybody was in
a daze.”  He assembled his floor directors and reminded them of the
need to keep the exchange open. “They were to continue to shut
down stocks with imbalances, put up new bids and asks, and then
reopen them,” he recalled in his SEC retrospective. “The
future of the NYSE depended on their doing this.”  The market turned around in the afternoon, helped by
companies announcing stock-buyback initiatives, and the Dow
ended the day up 102 points.  For much of the remainder of his tenure, Phelan was
involved in reviews of Black Monday and the implementation of
tools, such as so-called circuit breakers, to interrupt a
crashing market. When a presidential commission headed by
Nicholas Brady -- soon to become U.S. Treasury secretary --
criticized NYSE specialists for not buying aggressively enough
during the selling frenzy, Phelan came to their defense.  No Overreaction  “You don’t require a dealer to be a net purchaser,” he
told the New York Times in 1988. “All we require is that they
be in there, functioning.”  Phelan said he was pleased that regulators and Congress
didn’t overreact with legislative cures to what had been, at
root, an inevitable correction. “The market was just too high
and it was looking for some excuse to react,” he told the
 Associated Press  on the 20th anniversary of Black Monday.  John Joseph Phelan Jr. was born on May 7, 1931, in  New York
City , one of three children of John Phelan Sr. and the former
Edna Kelly. Bored after two years of college, he served in the
U.S. Marine Corps from 1951 to 1954, including a year in combat
in  Korea . He went to work with his father, a member of the NYSE
and senior partner of Phelan & Co., and became head of the firm
when his father died in 1966.  In six years of night school, he finished his college
education in 1970 with a bachelor’s degree in business
administration from Adelphi University on  New York ’s  Long
Island .  Senior Partner  His firm became Phelan, Silver, Vesce, Barry & Co., with
Phelan as senior partner. He became NYSE vice chairman, an
unpaid post, in 1975.  Phelan was head of an NYSE committee that in 1975 proposed
redefining the role of  specialists  to permit them to compete
with each other in making markets for their stocks. With the
introduction of the Intermarket Trading System less than four
years later, the Big Board as a whole began competing for
business with regional exchanges.  With NYSE Chairman and CEO William Batten, Phelan
diversified the exchange into commodities trading by creating
the New York Futures Exchange in 1979. It operated as a NYSE
subsidiary until its sale in 1993 to the New York Cotton
Exchange.  In May 1980, Phelan was named NYSE president and chief
operating officer, a post that paid $400,000 annually and
required him to step down as senior partner of his firm.  He became chairman and chief executive of the stock
exchange in May 1984, succeeding Batten. He retired early in
1991.  With his wife, Joyce, he had three sons, John, Peter and
David.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  