-- Joyce Puts Knight Survival Over Shares in Rescue Deal
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-08-07T00:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/joyce-puts-knight-survival-over-shares-forging-400-million-deal.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s weekend
rescue put an end to solvency concerns at the firm, according to
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce. It also sent
the stock more than 70 percent below its level a week ago.  The  Jersey City , New Jersey-based company, one of the
country’s biggest market makers, faced too many risks to make
its  equity price  a top priority in the bailout, Joyce said in a
telephone interview yesterday. Knight fell 24 percent to $3.07
in New York as investors prepared for hundreds of millions of
shares to enter the market via convertible securities.  “It is a permanent  solution ,” said Joyce, whose ownership
stake has declined by $8.9 million in the last week based on
data in a Jan. 31 filing.  “We understand the  dilution  is a
large amount, but for the future of Knight Capital Group, as
tough as it was to see happen, it was the right thing to do.”  Knight, driven to the brink of bankruptcy by trading losses
Aug. 1, received $400 million through the sale of convertible
stock. Jefferies Group Inc. conceived and structured the
investment and bought shares along with Getco LLC and Blackstone
Group LP, brokerages Stifel Nicolaus & Co. and  TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp., (AMTD)  as well as the investment bank Stephens Inc.  The investors agreed to buy preferred stock that will be
convertible into about 267 million common shares at $1.50, the
company said yesterday. The  new investment  in Knight will
represent 73 percent of the company once the 2 percent preferred
shares are converted in about a week.  Jefferies, Getco  Jefferies’s investment was the biggest at $125 million,
according to a government  filing  by Knight. Getco and Blackstone
bought $87.5 million each; TD Ameritrade received $40 million
and Stephens and Stifel got $30 million each, it showed. Three
directors will be named, one each by Blackstone and Getco backer
General Atlantic LLC, and one subject to approval by Jefferies.  While  owners  of Knight stock saw the value of their stake
diminish after a 61 percent plunge last week, the firms behind
the infusion are sitting on potential gains. The shares
represented by the convertible stock would be worth $820 million
at yesterday’s closing price, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The investment terms were onerous, to be sure,” wrote
Patrick O’Shaughnessy, a Chicago-based analyst at Raymond James
& Associates Inc., in a note to clients yesterday. “But  beggars 
can’t be choosers and we suspect it was either accept these
terms of face bankruptcy for Knight.”  Bonds Advance  The company’s $375 million of 3.5 percent convertible bonds
due in March 2015 jumped 9.1 cents to 88.1 cents on the dollar
as of 3:52 p.m. in New York yesterday, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The debt, which traded as low as 40 cents on the
dollar on Aug. 2, is yielding 8.7 percent, down from 20.5
percent last week.  Daniel Coleman , Getco’s chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview yesterday that he decided to participate in
the deal while on vacation after discussing the importance of
Knight with members of his company’s board over the weekend.
Getco is a competitor of Knight’s in market making.  “A world without Knight is not necessarily a better world
for Getco, it’s probably a worse one,” he said. “Knight’s a
big  liquidity  provider, they do a good job helping people
transfer risk in different things. There would be more friction
if they’re gone.”  Software Malfunction  The software malfunction was the latest black eye for the
computer infrastructure of an equity market still haunted by the
May 2010 market crash,  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s botched share offering,
and the failed IPO of Bats Global Markets Inc.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , whose agency in  Washington  is
the main market overseer, described the Knight event as
“unacceptable,” and promised to issue regulations to help
prevent similar mishaps.  Schapiro asked SEC staff to speed up efforts to propose a
rule requiring exchanges and other market centers to have
programs in place to ensure the integrity of their systems and
trading capacity, she said in a statement on Aug. 3.  Last year, she said the SEC should mandate compliance with
the agency’s automation review policies, instituted after the
1987 crash to ensure exchanges have appropriate technology and
testing mechanisms. That would also encourage exchanges to
disclose material problems to the public.  Representative Maxine Waters of  California , a senior
Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, said the
panel should hold hearings to get to the bottom of the turmoil.  “With a drumbeat of financial market snafus continuing,
it’s clear that the industry, with guidance from regulators,
needs to strengthen their internal controls,” Waters said.  Staying CEO  Joyce, who intends to  remain CEO , said retail brokers were
“coming back from many, many corners” after they routed
business away during and after the malfunctions. Knight sent
 mistaken  orders into the market just after the start of trading
on Aug. 1 because of a design flaw in software to connect with a
New York Stock Exchange program for individual investors.  Obtaining capital to fund businesses such as market making
was viewed as necessary to keep Knight afloat. Analysts at CLSA
Credit Agricole Securities wrote last week that bankruptcy was a
possibility if the firm failed to get  financing .  “It was obviously a greatly flawed application,” Joyce
said. “It is perplexing. We have launched an investigation. We
intend to come up with new and better ways to enhance the
infrastructure.”  The deal announced yesterday came after “dozens and
dozens” of inquiries were made over the weekend, Joyce said.
“We had several alternatives and this was clearly the best one
for our stakeholders.”  Knight’s market-making unit executes about 10 percent of
U.S. shares. Its mishap caused shares to move as much as 151
percent.  “I’d like to think there is no long-term damage to the
company because reputations are built on a series of actions and
behaviors over time and our clients understand where we’re
coming from,” Joyce said. “Our clients know that everybody
makes mistakes, even rather large ones on occasion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  