-- JPMorgan Faults Peregrine Plan to Involve CEO Dimon
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-08-06T22:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/jpmorgan-faults-peregrine-plan-to-involve-ceo-dimon-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  faulted a plan
by the trustee liquidating Peregrine Financial Group Inc. to
request customer documents directly from Chief Executive Officer
James Dimon, saying it was “inefficient and unnecessary.”  Trustee Ira Bodenstein asked a judge for authority to
subpoena JPMorgan and nine other financial institutions for
customer documents as part of what he called a routine
examination of the defunct futures brokerage’s records, serving
papers directly on their CEOs. JPMorgan told the judge it had
instead authorized its lawyers to accept the trustee’s requests
on behalf of Dimon.  “Although styled as a ‘routine’ motion under this court’s
local rules, certain of the proposed terms and conditions upon
which the trustee seeks to conduct the proposed examinations are
anything but ‘routine,’” the bank said in a filing in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Chicago today.  The trustee told the judge last month he needs access to
customer documents to identify “abnormalities” in the
company’s records. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
has accused Peregrine founder Russell Wasendorf Sr. of
misappropriating more than $200 million of customer funds.  Account Applications  Subpoenas will also go to  Citigroup Inc. (C) , U.S. Bank,  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , First Premier Bank, Commerzbank AG,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Plc , Jefferies Bache LLC,  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the trustee said. All maintained
account applications, authorization forms, agreements,
statements, wire transfers, canceled checks, deposit slips and
correspondence, he said.  Bodenstein’s proposal to bar the banks from recovering the
costs of providing the documents also is a departure from the
norm, JPMorgan said.  It is “an exceptional and impermissible departure from the
federal rules and the debtor’s own contractual undertakings,”
it said.  Peregrine’s July 10 bankruptcy, cutting off customers’
access to their accounts, came less than a year after the
failure of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , whose clients are still
missing money. In district court in Chicago, a receiver is
finding and securing Wasendorf’s assets on request of the CFTC,
which is probing the missing customer money, as is the Justice
Department.  Personal Investments  Wasendorf may have funded his personal investments with
Peregrine brokerage money, the receiver has said.  In its bankruptcy petition,  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based
Peregrine listed more than $500 million in assets and more than
$100 million in liabilities.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids). The
bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-27488,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).
The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  