-- Khodorkovsky Says Russia Discredited by Trial of Punk Girls
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-08-06T14:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/khodorkovsky-says-russia-discredited-by-pussy-riot-trial-torment.html
Jailed oil tycoon  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  said the trial and detention conditions of three
members of a Russian all-female punk group facing a possible
seven-year jail term are degrading and may amount to torture.  “I am very ashamed and hurt,” Khodorkovsky said in a
 letter  published on his website today. “And not because of
these girls -- the mistakes of youthful radicalism can be
forgiven -- but for the state, which is profaning our Russia
with its complete and utter lack of conscience.”  Members of the Pussy Riot band are on trial for hooliganism
and inciting religious hatred after performing what they called
a “punk prayer” in February inside Moscow’s Christ the Savior
 cathedral , the country’s main Christian Orthodox place of
worship, targeting  Vladimir Putin , who extended his 12-year rule
in presidential elections in March.  Khodorkovsky, the former billionaire owner of Yukos Oil
Co., says he was targeted by Putin for financing opposition
parties, an accusation the Kremlin denies. Imprisoned for 13
years on charges of  tax evasion , fraud and money-laundering, he
received a second conviction with his business partner  Platon Lebedev  in December 2010 in the same courthouse where the Pussy
Riot trial started last week.  ‘Middle Ages’  “The word ‘trial’ is applicable here only in the sense in
which it was used by the Inquisitors of the Middle Ages,”
Khodorkovsky said in the letter about legal action against Pussy
Riot written from a prison colony in the northern Karelia region
town of Segezha. “We have been deprived of an honest and
independent judiciary, of the opportunity to defend ourselves
and to protect people from lawlessness.”  While it’s “customary” for defendants to remain silent
about the conditions of their imprisonment, “the judge, of
course, knows about this regime,” Khodorkovsky said. “Torture,
perhaps?”  Maria Alekhina, 24, Ekaterina Samutsevich, 29, and Nadezhda
Tolokonnikova, 22, called for medical help at Moscow’s
Khamovniki District Court last week after complaining about the
conditions of the proceedings against them. They are woken at 5
a.m. and return to jail after midnight, depriving them of sleep
and any prison meals. They are kept in a glass cage in the
courtroom.  ‘Tropical Fish’  “In the summer you feel like a tropical fish in that glass
cage,” Khodorkovsky said.  “It was hard for me and Platon --
two people -- to be in the aquarium together the whole day. I
cannot even imagine how all three of those poor girls manage to
fit in there at once.”  Khodorkovsky, whose case has become a symbol for concerns
about the rule of law in  Russia  for investors, cited his own
experience in describing the “ignominy” of confinement in an
airless glass and steel box and being subjected to at least four
body searches a day, including two daily procedures in prison in
which defendants are forced to strip naked.  The accused are offered a packed dry lunch during recess in
court -- “dry noodles, dry porridge,” he said. “I stopped
eating in the second week of the trial: it was better to survive
through the whole day on just water alone.”  Amnesty International  has declared the punk band members
prisoners of conscience and music stars including Madonna, Peter Gabriel and Sting have rallied to their defense. The defendants,
who have been ordered to be held in pre-trial detention until
January, rejected criminal charges of hooliganism at the start
of their trial on July 30. They argued that their case should be
treated as an administrative violation, while apologizing for
upsetting religious sensibilities.  Well Enough  After ambulances were called for the three band members on
Aug. 1, the Pussy Riot trial resumed as doctors determined the
defendants are well enough for the proceedings, RIA Novosti
cited Darya Lyakh, a spokeswoman for Moscow’s Khamovniki
District Court, as saying.  Russians must confront the “ignominy of a great country, a
country of world famous humanists and scientists, turning
headlong into a backward Asiatic province,” Khodorkovsky said,
urging people to send “words of hope” to the defendants.  The U.S. government on July 31 condemned the prosecution of
the punk bank and charges against Russian anti-corruption
activist Alexey Navalny. Navalny faces as many as 10 years in
jail after being charged last week with embezzling money from a
state timber company, marking an escalation in Putin’s crackdown
on the biggest unrest of his 12-year rule.  “These are not signs supporting those that hope for change
in the new era of Putin,”  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management who coined the BRICs acronym to describe
large  emerging markets , said in an e-mailed note today. “For a
country with an average GDP per capita of around $15,000, these
are issues that should be diminishing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  