-- Knight Investors Eye Prize in Market-Making
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-08-06T11:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/knight-investors-eye-prize-in-market-making-for-individuals-1-.html
The investors who bailed out  Knight
Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  by purchasing $400 million in convertible
securities are gaining control of the biggest trading partner
for individuals in the world’s largest stock market.  While last week’s $440 million trading loss highlighted
Knight’s importance to institutional traders, the company
accounted for 29 percent of the average monthly volume in U.S.
 equity trading  by individuals in the first quarter, according to
a June 7 presentation. Stifel Nicolaus & Co. and TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp., two of the firm’s rescuers, sent 38 percent and 9
percent of market orders in  New York  Stock Exchange-listed
securities to Knight last quarter, respectively, according to
public execution-disclosure statements.  Knight was saved from insolvency by Getco LLC, Blackstone
Group LP, Stephens Inc. and Jefferies Group Inc., as well as
Stifel and TD Ameritrade, according to people familiar with the
matter who asked not to be identified because the agreements
aren’t public. Knight’s mishap sent 140 stocks into sudden
swings at the Aug. 1 open, the latest breakdown to challenge the
integrity of the world’s biggest stock market.  “Investors in Knight are getting a stake in a company with
several very attractive assets at what might turn out to be a
very attractive price,” Patrick O’Shaughnessy, an analyst at
Raymond James & Associates Inc., wrote in an e-mail yesterday.
“Knight plays an important role in U.S. equities market
structure and retail brokers have a vested interest in making
sure competition for their order flow remains robust.”  Convertible Stake  The rescue involves a $400 million cash infusion through
the sale of convertible preferred securities, according to a
regulatory filing today. The 2 percent securities will be
converted into 267 million shares, according to the filing. That
would represent a 73 percent stake in the company, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Knight shares plunged 32 percent to $2.75 at 7:46 a.m. New
York time in trading before U.S. exchanges opened.  Market-making operations at  Jersey City , New Jersey-based
Knight generated between $200 million and $255 million in annual
pretax income from 2009 to 2011,  Christopher Allen , an analyst
at Evercore Partners Inc. in New York wrote in an Aug. 2 note.  Kara Fitzsimmons, a Knight spokeswoman, declined to comment
before the release of the filing. Fred Tomczyk, TD Ameritrade’s
president and chief executive officer, declined to speak as he
left Knight’s headquarters in Jersey City,  New Jersey  yesterday.  Sophie Sohn, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Getco,
declined to comment. Representatives for Stifel, Blackstone,
Stephens and Jefferies didn’t respond to calls and e-mails
seeking comment.  Core Foundation  Knight is the dominant firm in equity wholesaling, the
business of executing orders off exchanges primarily for
brokerages such as Scottrade Inc. and TD Ameritrade, according
to  Larry Tabb , chief executive officer of research firm Tabb
Group LLC in New York. Its main competitors are  UBS AG (UBSN) , Citadel
LLC and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Tabb said.  “A large portion of their business revolves around the
wholesaling business and market-making business,” Tabb said.
“That was the core foundation.”  Eight brokers with “significant retail customer accounts”
send almost all of their orders that can be executed immediately
to market makers executing off  exchanges , the SEC said in 2010.
Those firms pay many of the brokers sending orders less than
1/10 of a cent per share for the orders. Orders traded on
exchanges can pay fees of up to 3/10 of a penny.  Order Flow  Individual investors that send orders through discount
brokerages can benefit from having their trades routed off
exchanges,  Robert Colby  and  Erik Sirri , former officials at the
Securities and Exchange Commission who ran the regulator’s
division of trading and markets, wrote in a 2010 paper. The
process, known as internalization, can allow brokers to get
better prices for clients of discount firms and help them keep
trading costs low, they said.  Knight participates in a practice known as payment for
order flow, in which it compensates retail brokerages for
sending it requests to transact securities. The company paid a
total of $85.3 million to retail brokers for their order flow in
2011, up from $37.7 million in 2010, according to its annual
report last year.  “What you don’t want to see is losing one of the major
participants in the market,”  Mark Freeman , who oversees about
$13 billion as chief investment officer at Westwood Holdings
Group Inc. in  Dallas , said in a phone interview. “Someone may
say, ‘Hey, these orders just get routed to someone else,’ but it
still matters how many participants you have. We see this in the
 bond market  in terms of primary dealers. The fewer you get,
liquidity becomes more of an issue.”  Losing Faith  Knight’s errors and the other trading mishaps underscore
why American investors have pulled $193 billion from mutual
funds since the start of 2011. The value of transactions in
exchange-traded funds tracking the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
is poised to exceed for the first time the turnover for all the
stocks in the benchmark gauge.  While stock transactions in the U.S. used to be dominated
by three exchanges, regulations to increase competition and
reduce costs have fragmented markets across about 50 different
venues. That’s raised concerns about integrity in the $16.4
trillion market when the computers that now handle almost all
trading malfunction.  Knight Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce said the
problems were triggered by “a large bug” in software as the
company, which handles about 10 percent of market making in
U.S.-listed stocks, prepared to trade with a NYSE program for
individual investors. While that system began the day of
Knight’s trading error, Joyce said the technology problem had
“nothing to do” with the Big Board.  Negative Sentiment  “It further contributes to the negative sentiment in the
equity market, particularly among retail investors,” Joe Scott,
a New York-based credit analyst at  Fitch Ratings  who covers
banks, said in a telephone interview. “They’re very active with
the discount brokers and making markets in equities. They’re
intertwined with the rest of the financial system.”  Volume in U.S. exchange-listed stocks  is already headed for
a third straight annual decline. About 6.7 billion shares
changed hands each day on average in 2012, 25 percent less than
in 2008, based on data compiled by Bloomberg of U.S. exchange-
listed securities. Volume fell 9.9 percent in July from June,
after a 3.2 percent drop in June from May, the data show.  Malfunctions Multiply  The software malfunction may worsen investor sentiment hurt
by the so-called flash crash in May 2010, when a trading error
briefly wiped out $862 billion of market value, the botched
initial public offering of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and failed IPO of Bats
Global Markets Inc. earlier this year. Two weeks ago, investors
in three of the biggest Dow Jones Industrial Average stocks were
whipsawed by price swings that repeated every hour, fueling
speculation the moves were caused by computerized trading.  Securing additional capital to fund businesses such as
market making was viewed as necessary to keep Knight afloat.
Analysts at CLSA Credit Agricole Securities wrote last week that
bankruptcy was a possibility if it failed to get financing.
Knight’s loss was bigger than the $365 million cash balance it
reported as of June 30 and exceeded its market value of $398
million as of Aug. 3, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This is one of our largest and best-run market making
outfits,” James Angel, a professor at  Georgetown University ’s
business school in  Washington  who serves on the board of
exchange operator Direct Edge Holdings LLC, said in a phone
interview. “It definitely shows signs of confidence in Knight
and its management that people are willing to step forward with
this kind of a cash infusion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  