-- Knight Blowup Shows How High-Speed Traders Outrace Rules
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-06T22:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/knight-blowup-shows-how-high-speed-traders-outrace-rules.html
The U.S. has the most sophisticated
financial markets in the world, yet they can unaccountably spin
out of control at a moment’s notice.  The latest case involves  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , a
securities-trading company in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , that was
laid low by one of its inadequately tested computer-trading
programs. In less than an hour on Aug. 1, the program entered
incorrect bids for about 150 stocks into the interconnected
electronic marketplace. Computer programs at other firms sniffed
out the errors and traded against Knight. By the end of the day,
the company was out $440 million, forcing it to seek outside
financing to survive.  This debacle highlights a market weakness that regulators
have been unable to address because high-frequency trading has
raced ahead of the humans who try to contain the mischief it can
cause. Industry resistance to improved regulation hasn’t helped.
If any good comes out of the Knight episode, it will be a
commitment by Wall Street’s trading firms to help regulators
design systems that can track lightning-speed  transactions  and
tap the brakes when the computers spin out of control.  By now, it’s pretty clear that computer-driven trading can
be a major source of volatility. In May 2010, the so-called
flash crash knocked almost 1,000 points off the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  in less than an hour, only to bounce back
just as fast.  Going Bats  Then in March of this year, Bats Global Markets Inc.,
another computer-trading firm, had to withdraw its initial
public offering after its system froze, forcing a halt in shares
of Apple Inc. Two months later,  Facebook Inc. (FB)  couldn’t trade on
time in its first day as a public company because of hang-ups in
a Nasdaq computer, feeding doubts about the reliability of
markets and costing the Swiss bank UBS AG about $350 million.
UBS was able to absorb the loss; a smaller firm might have
failed.  The pursuit of speed is an obsession among Wall Street
trading firms. They can profit by taking advantage of minuscule
discrepancies in prices that might exist for no more than a few
microseconds or by getting a sneak peek at orders before they
are executed. The risks of this are becoming more obvious, even
to some market leaders.  Markets now  believe  that “if something is faster, then by
definition it’s better,” says  Duncan Niederauer , chief
executive officer of NYSE Euronext, which owns the  New York 
Stock Exchange. “We are understanding that speed is not always
better.”  Amen. It is also true that making markets more resilient
doesn’t mean a return to telephone orders, paper order tickets
or stock exchanges with only human traders bellowing out bids
and offers.  What we can do, at a minimum, is ensure that monitoring
systems keep up with the traders’ algorithms.  The Securities and Exchange Commission last month took a
half-step by  requiring  markets to build a $4.1 billion system
that can generate audit trails of all transactions. The trouble
with this system is that trading data won’t be generated until
the next day, a feature the industry insisted on. Day-old data
might not help regulators much when they are called upon the
instant a market blows up. (It took five months to confirm the
cause of the  flash crash .) Nor is it clear that the  system  will
be able to pinpoint the identity of every party in a
transaction.  The SEC might need to consider whether more work is needed
on market  circuit breakers , a device introduced after the 1987
market crash that temporarily stops trading when an individual
stock or an entire market behaves erratically. New rules,
scheduled to take full effect next August, set lower thresholds
for triggering a trading halt. One idea the SEC might consider
is applying circuit breakers to specific firms that issue an
excessive number of trade orders.  Software Testing  The SEC and  stock exchanges  should also require major
trading firms to demonstrate that their software programs are
reliable before letting them go live. Now, firms are simply
urged to adhere to an industry-recommended set of  best
practices . Unleashing a flawed program, as Knight seems to have
done, is unacceptable.  Market apologists have said Knight’s errant trades caused
no harm to anyone other than Knight and its shareholders, who
saw the value of their  investment  shrink by about $600 million
in a few hours. Yet who can be so certain the next bug-infested
program won’t inflict much more damage? And what might have
happened if Knight, which handled about 11 percent of all U.S.
stock trading before the errors, had shut down?  Plus, the argument that Knight only hurt itself is bogus:
Investors withdrew $127 billion from stock mutual funds in the
12 months ended in June. Repeated computer-trading misfires --
not to mention the financial crisis of 2008 -- erode confidence
in U.S. markets. At some point, regulators and  Wall Street  have
to decide whether the quest for speed is worth the chaos that
can result.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 