-- Navistar Jumps on Report Its Considering Job Reductions
-- B y   H a s a n   D u d a r
-- 2012-08-06T20:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/navistar-jumps-on-report-its-considering-job-reductions.html
Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  rose the
most in five weeks after Crain’s Chicago Business reported that
the maker of International trucks has told employees it’s
considering options for the business including job cuts.  The  shares  gained 10 percent to $24.62 at the close in New
York, the biggest daily increase since June 29. The Lisle,
Illinois-based company’s stock has fallen 35 percent this year.  Navistar told employees last week that voluntary departures
and involuntary job cuts are among options it’s considering as
it looks to cut expenses, Crain’s said, citing Karen Denning, a
spokeswoman. The company has offered a voluntary separation
program for any salaried full-time employee, according to the
report. Navistar has 3,400 such eligible employees in Lisle,
Joliet and  Melrose Park ,  Illinois , Crain’s said.  Navistar slid to its lowest price in 3 1/2 years on Aug. 2
after disclosing a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
inquiry. The company, which has been developing an engine to
meet U.S. emission standards after its earlier technology failed
to comply, last week also withdrew its yearly forecast until the
release of its third-quarter earnings next month.  The company sent a memo to staff members last week
announcing that job reductions are an option being considered,
Denning said by telephone today.  “That is the last lever,” she said. “The number of
people cut is contingent on the success in other areas.”  Navistar has about 19,000 employees, Denning said.  Fitch Ratings today downgraded Navistar’s issuer default
ratings to B- from B+, citing “the negative impact of recent
developments including already weak operating results in 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hasan Dudar in  New York  at 
 hdudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Koenig at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net  