-- New Zealand’s Mount Tongariro Erupts, Ash Cloud Disperses
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-08-07T06:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/new-zealand-volcano-mount-tongariro-erupts-ash-disrupts-flights.html
  Mount Tongariro , a volcano in New
Zealand’s  North Island , erupted for the first time in 115 years,
creating an ash cloud that closed roads and disrupted regional
 air travel  before moving off the coast.  The eruption was reported by a member of the public about
11:50 p.m. local time yesterday,  New Zealand Police  said in an
e-mailed statement. Government scientists are monitoring the
event, which they said was driven by steam rather than magma,
and can’t rule out further explosions.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if there were more small-scale
eruptions,” Brad Scott, a volcanologist at  GNS Science , a
government agency, told reporters at a televised news
conference. Ash fell to a depth of as much as 15 millimeters and
was drifting east, he said.  Tongariro is one of three volcanoes in the middle of the
North Island, about 340 kilometers (211 miles) north of the
capital city Wellington. It lies just to the north of Mount
Ngauruhoe, which was used by film director  Peter Jackson  to
depict Mount Doom in his movie trilogy based on J.R.R. Tolkien’s
“Lord of the Rings” novels.  There were no reports of damage or injuries, the Ministry
of Civil Defense & Emergency Management said in a  statement . The
ministry lifted a potential threat notice for the area in the
early afternoon, based on GNS Science advice that eruption
activity had subsided, according to its website.  Water Supplies  No evacuations were ordered although some people did
briefly leave their homes voluntarily, the ministry said.
Residents are being urged to check water supplies for ash
contamination.  Hiking tracks and huts around the mountain are closed.
Three hikers were safely evacuated from a hut where they had
been spending the night, Nic Peet, area manager for the
Conservation Department, told reporters.  An ash cloud extending as high as 12 kilometers formed
after the eruption, and moved quickly east, the National
Institute of Water & Atmospheric Research said in an e-mailed
statement, citing satellite imagery. The cloud had blown off the
coast by late afternoon, it said.  Air  New Zealand  Ltd., the nation’s biggest carrier, resumed
flights to most regional airports east of Tongariro after
canceling services earlier because of the risk from the ash, it
said in a  statement  on its website. Services to Napier on the
east coast remained grounded.  State highways in the area reopened after being initially
closed because of ash falls, the New Zealand Transport Agency
said on its website.  Ski Fields  Ski fields on Mount Ruapehu, about 20 kilometers south of
Tongariro, are unaffected, according to their websites.  While GNS Science on July 20 raised the alert status at
Tongariro due to increased seismic activity, nothing had
indicated the volcano would erupt yesterday, Scott said.  “It just snuck up on us,” he said.  Tongariro’s last confirmed eruption was 1897, according to
government scientists. Ruapehu erupted in 1995 and 1996,
creating an  ash cloud  and flows of volcanic ash, known as
lahars, that disrupted transport.  GNS Science is also monitoring White Island, an offshore
volcano about 180 kilometers north of Tongariro, where small,
unconnected eruptions occurred Aug. 5 and again yesterday, Scott
told reporters.  The explosion yesterday came less than a month before the
two-year anniversary of a magnitude 7 earthquake that struck
near the South Island city of Christchurch. A subsequent temblor
on Feb. 22, 2011, devastated the heart of the city, killing 185
people and wrecking thousands of homes and buildings. There have
been 10,560 quakes in the area since Sept. 4, 2010, according to
University of Canterbury research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  