-- New York Said to Probe Insurers Over Captive Coverage
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-08-06T21:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/new-york-said-to-probe-insurers-over-captive-coverage-2-.html
New York ’s  Department of Financial
Services  last month asked about 80 life insurers in the state to
provide details on financial arrangements with captive insurance
companies, a person familiar with the matter said.  The  companies , which include  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Lincoln
National Corp. (LNC) , face a deadline on Aug. 8 to provide the
information, said the person, who declined to be identified and
wasn’t authorized to speak on the matter.  Captives are companies set up by an insurer to cover the
parent’s risks.  Bermuda  and the  Cayman Islands  were the most
common locations for captive insurers in 2010, according to the
 Insurance Information Institute .  Vermont  is the state with the
largest number of captives, at 572 in 2010.  Ron Klug, a spokesman for the New York Department of
Financial Services, declined to comment on the matter in a
telephone interview. The letters sent to the companies were
reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  MetLife uses captive reinsurers and letter of credit
facilities to comply with certain  reserve requirements  that are
related to universal life and term life insurance policies,
Chris Breslin, a spokesman for New York-based MetLife, said in
an e-mail.  Lincoln National  Lincoln National discloses its use of captive arrangements
and supports regulatory reviews, Michael Arcaro, a spokesman for
the Radnor, Pennsylvania-based company, said in an e-mail.  “Reinsurance and the use of captive structures have always
provided an avenue for effective risk management in the life
industry,” Arcaro said. “Lincoln’s use of these arrangements
are reviewed by numerous parties, including state regulators,
 ratings agencies  and multiple outside actuarial firms. We have
been very public on our use of captives and support periodic
reviews by the appropriate state regulators.”  MetLife’s Vermont-based captive got a 30-year letter of
credit in 2008 from Deutsche Bank AG, which committed to
providing $2.4 billion, the Journal reported, citing securities
filings and unidentified people familiar with the transaction.  Bank Arrangements  The cost of the letter of credit was “significantly less”
than the cost of issuing debt or selling stock and the bank
arrangement allows MetLife to stay within leverage ratios used
by firms that rate credit, the Journal said.  Deutsche Bank could demand payment from MetLife if the
letter is drawn upon, and could declare the insurer in default
if it can’t reimburse the bank, the Journal said, citing
unidentified people familiar with the transaction.  The letter of credit from Deutsche Bank is an example of
how they are used by industry to meet regulatory requirements
related to reserves, Breslin said.  “The letters of credit support non-economic reserves. To
the extent that each insurance subsidiary, including the
captives themselves, is properly capitalized then a debt default
at the holding company would have no impact on policyholders,”
Breslin said.  ‘More Disclosure’  John Nadel , an insurance analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach
Inc., said insurers should provide more information about their
use of captives.  “The vast majority of life insurers utilize captive
reinsurance in one form or another,” Nadel wrote in a research
note today. “Captives are a ‘black box,’ but we think more
disclosure is the answer.”  Eric Berg , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said the
captive arrangements may give a “false impression” of the
insurer’s financial health, especially in cases where the
captive is funded using a letter of credit that allows the bank
to hold the parent company responsible for the debt.  If New York regulators change how they evaluate the
captives or stop recognizing them, that may limit the ability of
some insurers to repurchase shares, he wrote in a research note
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  