-- New Jersey’s Young-Driver Law Not Flawed, Court Concludes
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-08-06T20:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/new-jersey-s-young-driver-law-upheld-against-privacy-challenge.html
New Jersey ’s young-driver law, which
requires novice motorists to display a red decal on their cars’
license plates, doesn’t violate privacy protections, the  New
Jersey Supreme Court  ruled.  The state’s highest court rejected a challenge to the
statute, known as  Kyleigh’s Law , which argued the provision
unfairly singles out a class of motorists in the state, where
the driving privileges for young motorists expand in stages, and
violates constitutional protections.  The law properly covers only “the group of drivers who are
at specific stages of New Jersey’s graduated driver’s license
system, which governs only drivers who have permits or licenses
issued by this state,” the court concluded.  Kyleigh’s Law was designed to improve safety for teenage
drivers by making them easily identifiable to police. The
statute, which took effect in  May 2010 , requires drivers under
the age of 21 with a graduated driver’s license to display a
red, reflective decal on their plates. Those with such limited
licenses can’t drive between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m.  The bill was named after Kyleigh D’Alessio, a 16-year-old
honor student and athlete from Long Valley, New Jersey, who was
killed in a 2006 car accident involving a provisional driver
with multiple passengers.  Privacy Protections  Critics of the law said it violates privacy protections and
makes young drivers vulnerable to predators. Some lawmakers have
introduced bills to remove the decal requirement.  Gregg Trautmann , an attorney in Rockaway, New Jersey, sued
to overturn the law on behalf of his teenage son and nephew.
Trautmann’s challenge to the statute was rejected by an
intermediate appellate court last year.  The state’s highest court today upheld the lower appellate
court’s finding that Kyleigh’s Law wasn’t constitutionally
flawed.  Young drivers “have no reasonable expectation of privacy
in their age group, because a driver’s age group can generally
be determined by his or her physical appearance, which is
routinely exposed to public view,” the court said in an eight-
page ruling.  Trautmann said today he’ll ask the U.S.  Supreme Court  to
review the New Jersey Supreme Court’s interpretation of the
federal statute governing drivers’ privacy rights. The state
court interpreted the law “ too narrowly.”  New Jersey Gov. Christopher Christie declined in an
interview today to comment on the Supreme Court’s ruling on the
young-driver law, saying “I’m not a huge fan of Kyleigh’s Law,
personally.”  The case is Trautmann v. Christie, A-16-11, 067705, New
Jersey Supreme Court (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  