-- Noble Buys Into Falkland Oil Licenses, Will Become Operator
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-08-06T15:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/noble-buys-into-falkland-oil-licenses-will-become-operator.html
Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) , a U.S. oil and gas
producer, agreed to buy stakes in licenses from Falkland Oil &
Gas Ltd. off the disputed islands.  Noble will take a 35 percent in Falkland Oil’s Northern
Area licenses, except for Loligo and Nimrod-Garrodia, and will
become operator in 2013, London-based Falkland Oil said in a
statement. In the Southern Area licenses, Noble will receive a
35 percent interest and become operator by early 2014.  Noble is the second company Falkland Oil has found this
year to share the costs and risks of drilling off the
archipelago  Margaret Thatcher  went to war to keep British in
1982. Noble’s investment in the next three years is estimated to
be as much as $230 million, Falkland Oil said. Shares of
Falkland Oil jumped the most since April in London trading.  “We have now brought in two highly respected international
exploration and production companies,” Falkland Oil Chief
Executive Officer Tim Bushell said in the statement. “With this
strong partnership in place, we have the financial and technical
resources to help realize the potential from our large acreage
position in the Falkland Islands.”  Falkland Oil started drilling in the Loligo prospect on
Aug. 3, it said in a separate statement today. The operation
will take about 60 days, it said.  Edison International (EIX)  SpA, a unit of French state-controlled
power company Electricite de France SA, bought a 25 percent
interest in the northern licenses and a 12.5 percent stake in
the southern licenses in June. On July 12,  Premier Oil Plc (PMO) , a
U.K. explorer with fields in the North Sea and Southeast Asia,
said it will buy 60 percent of  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH) ’s
assets. Rockhopper was the first to make a commercial discovery
in the region.  Borders & Southern Petroleum Plc (BOR)  in April announced a
discovery of gas condensate in its Darwin prospect, close to
Falkland Oil’s fields. Borders also said on July 16 it found gas
in its Stebbing prospect, though not in commercial quantities
and it was unable to drill to its target depth because of
pressure conditions.  Falkland Oil surged 15 percent to 86 pence in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  