-- Nympho Kidnaps, Brat Grows Up, Serial Killer: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-08-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/nympho-kidnaps-brat-grows-up-serial-killer-london-stage.html
It’s a law of the theater that once
an evening starts badly, it never gets better.  The U.K. country-house opera company  Glyndebourne  has
broken that law with its new Ravel double bill. The first
opera “L’heure espagnole” (The Spanish Clock) is about a
nymphomaniac wife who shoves men into grandfather clocks so
that she can smuggle them into her bedroom.  It’s an amusing piece, though you wouldn’t guess that
from Laurent Pelly’s labored production. He sets the action in
a provincial Spanish clock shop, circa 1970.  There are hundreds of fussy and uncomical props,
including a life-size bull, a washing machine, and a dress
hanging on the wall. Oddly, the dress goes up and down of its
own accord sometimes. It’s meant to be cute.  Stephanie d’Oustrac displays an attractive sound and good
comic skills as the increasingly desperate wife, and deserves
a better setting for her talents.  From the sub-mediocre to the superb. There’s a 180-degree
swerve after the interval with Pelly’s magical production of
“L’enfant et les sortileges” (The Child and the Sorceries).
It tells the story of a spoiled brat (soprano Khatouna
Gadelia) who tears his storybook, smashes his teacup and rips
the wallpaper in his nursery. When those objects come to life
to rebuke him, he learns something about growing up.  Boyish Soprano  Designer Barbara de Limburg creates an enormous table for
the first scene. The boyish Gadelia, dressed in shorts, sits
on an equally huge chair, banging her head on homework. She’s
dwarfed by the massive, threatening surroundings -- an ideal
way to set up the action of the opera.  The costumes are appropriately hallucinatory. Coloratura
soprano Kathleen Kim (as Fire) appears from the nursery
fireplace dressed in red and orange gauze.  She’s perched on a seesaw contraption that makes her fly
around the room as she pours out her trills and scales,
terrifying the young child. It’s terrifically well observed.
Two cats (Elliot Madore and Stephanie d’Oustrac) slink around
the child without quite touching him, just like real felines.  The opera ends when the scared boy treats the leg of a
wounded bird in the garden. In a moment of emotion, we see he
has learned compassion.  It’s like Wagner’s “Parsifal,” minus the sexual
repression, and about five hours shorter.  Conductor Kazushi Ono steps up his game after the
interval too. In the first opera, his baton-waving is as messy
as the visuals. In the second, he creates a charming web of
sound, full of atmosphere. Ratings: ** for “L’heure espagnole
and ***** for “L’enfant et les sortileges.”  Curious Incident  Mark Haddon’s book “The Curious Incident of the Dog in
the Night-Time” is clumsily adapted for the stage at the
 National Theatre .  It’s about a teenager called Christopher (Luke Treadaway)
who has Asperger Syndrome. The novel presents his first-person
narrative as he tries to solve the killing of a dog.  The tone of Simon Stephens’s script zigzags drunkenly.
One moment Christopher’s social worker (Niamh Cusack) becomes
a narrator as she reads out chunks from the book. The next, a
framing device is shoehorned in: Christopher’s school is going
to make a play out of his book -- this may be the play we’re
watching. The characters start referring to themselves as
characters in a play.  Treadaway has the unnerving focus of a high-functioning
autistic adolescent, and sometimes Marianne Elliot’s in-the-
round staging has lively energy. When Christopher imagines a
journey into space, the cast members carry him on their
shoulders and the auditorium is lit with twinkly stars.  At other times, the use of the ensemble to represent
trains or objects becomes too much like student-drama, and
drags the pace of an already trudging show. Rating: **.  ‘London Road’  There’s another chance to catch the extraordinary
“London Road” by Alecky Blythe and Adam Cork at the NT.  In 2006, a serial killer began murdering prostitutes in
Suffolk, southeastern  England . Blythe went there to conduct
interviews with the local community. She returned at regular
intervals to cover the locals’ reaction to the trial and
conviction of Steve Wright.  Keeping every authentic hesitation, repetition and
“er…um,” she shaped the found material into lyrics for Adam
Cork to set to minimalist music. The result is an innovative
show: part musical, part documentary, part speech experiment.  Teenage Giggles  There are moments of high comedy. Two teenagers giggle at
the excitement the murders have generated. (Their laughter is
faithfully reproduced by the cast, which moves between musical
speech and semi-spoken music with facility).  There are moments of poignancy as streetwalkers describe
their efforts to get clear of drugs. Ultimately, the locals
bond to form community groups to tackle their problems.  Occasionally Rufus Norris’s spare, simple production
feels slow, and the documentary-style insights can be
repetitive. As an innovative way to meditate on the fragile
links holding a group of people together, or keeping them
apart, it has extraordinary and uplifting power. Rating ****.  “L’heure espagnole” and “L’enfant et les sortileges,”
in a double bill, are in repertoire at Glyndebourne.
Information:  http://www.glyndebourne.com  or +44-1273-815000.
“The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time” and
“London Road” are in repertoire at the National Theatre,
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk/  or +44-20-7452-3000.  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on television.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 