-- NYSE Shifts Knight's Stocks Temporarily to Getco
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-08-06T20:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/nyse-shifts-knight-companies-temporarily-to-getco-s-market-maker.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  temporarily assigned
responsibility for 680 stocks that  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) 
handles as a primary market maker to Getco LLC so the broker
could focus on shoring up its finances after incurring a $440
million trading loss on Aug. 1.  Automated trading firm Getco, which oversees activity in
896 companies listed on the  New York  Stock Exchange and NYSE
MKT, will use its own technology and commit its capital to trade
the shares, according to  Larry Leibowitz , chief operating
officer at NYSE Euronext. The Chicago-based firm will be
responsible for an additional 524 stocks listed on the Big Board
and 156 on NYSE MKT, formerly known as NYSE Amex, until
oversight returns to  Jersey City , New Jersey-based Knight.  “They needed short-term funding extensions,” Leibowitz
said in a phone interview. “We needed a contingency plan in
case that didn’t happen at any point in time. From late
Wednesday on we’ve been discussing a contingency plan. We didn’t
want to walk into Monday and have there be any doubts.”  Knight received a $400 million cash infusion through the
sale of convertible securities after a software malfunction last
week drove the market maker to the brink of bankruptcy. Getco,
Blackstone Group LP, brokerages Stifel Nicolaus & Co. and  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , as well as Stephens Inc. and Jefferies
Group Inc. are investing, Knight said in a statement today.  Weekend Decision  Knight shares  plunged  24 percent to close at $3.07 at 4
p.m. in New York and are down 70 percent since July 31.  The decision to use Getco’s  market-making operation  to
handle Knight’s responsibilities wasn’t related to the equity
financing arrangement for Knight, in which the rival firm
invested. It was “coincidental,” Leibowitz said.  The Big Board decided to move the companies to Getco on
Friday. Having the “luxury of the weekend just made life a
little easier” because of the operational complexities in
managing the transition, Leibowitz said. Knight cooperated with
the shift, he added.  “Going into Friday it was clear that if something
permanent didn’t happen, they weren’t going to be in business on
Monday,” Leibowitz said of Knight. “We wanted an abundance of
caution.”  The exchange operator plans to shift back the Knight
companies to the market maker when it’s “operationally easy for
both Getco and Knight and the Knight staff,” Leibowitz said.
Knight employees working on the floor of the exchange are using
Getco’s systems and capital to make markets in the companies
they handle, he said.  Getco’s Stake  Daniel Coleman , chief executive officer of Getco, said
Knight’s disappearance wouldn’t have yielded a “better world”
for Getco. Without Knight’s ability to provide liquidity, “it
would be more expensive for everyone to trade,” he said in a
phone interview. Getco began talking to Jefferies about an
investment on Saturday, Aug. 4, and took a “significant
amount” of the Knight convertible securities, according to
Coleman, who negotiated the transaction while on vacation.  Jefferies conceived and structured the equity financing,
according to a  statement  from Knight today.  ‘Strategic Interest’  “In some ways Knight’s a competitor, in some ways they’re
a client, in some ways we’re their client,” Coleman said. “But
at the end of the day the liquidity they provide and I think the
liquidity we provide probably makes both of us better. This is
in our strategic interest to make sure Knight stays viable.”  Obtaining additional  capital  to fund businesses such as
market making was viewed as necessary to keep Knight afloat.
Analysts at CLSA Credit Agricole Securities wrote last week that
bankruptcy was a possibility if the firm failed to get
financing.  Knight’s trading loss was bigger than the $365 million cash
balance it reported as of June 30 and exceeded its market value
of $398 million as of Aug. 3, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Getco’s investment in Knight may benefit the Chicago
trading firm if it considers an initial public offering,  Diego Perfumo , an analyst at hedge fund adviser Equity Research Desk
LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said in a phone interview.  “If Knight fails, Getco’s chance to have an IPO
decreases,” Perfumo said. “Knight has been in this business
for so long. If it blows up and disappears, will investors want
to invest in Getco?  No.”  Long Term  Sophie Sohn, a spokeswoman at Getco, declined to comment on
speculation about an IPO. The financial investment was based on
the role Knight plays in the market and her firm’s belief in the
“long-term value of the organization,” she said.  NYSE Euronext received a “scatter of concerns and
questions” from people at companies who wanted to know how
their shares would be affected by Knight’s problems, Leibowitz
said. He said the exchange would hold a webinar to explain the
shift to the companies today.  Knight’s mishap spurred calls in Congress to examine
whether increasing automation is damaging the integrity of the
U.S. equity market, the world’s largest with $16.4 trillion in
share value. Representative Maxine Waters of  California , a
senior Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, said
the panel should hold hearings to get to the bottom of the
turmoil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  