-- Obama Campaign Backs Military Group Entry in Early Vote Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-06T19:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/obama-campaign-backs-military-group-entry-in-early-vote-case-1-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
organization told a U.S. judge that while it backs intervention
by 15 fraternal military groups in its lawsuit challenging a
disparity in Ohio’s in-person early voting time laws, it
maintains that all Ohio voters should be able to cast those
ballots in the three days immediately before Election Day.  Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine and Secretary of State
Jon Husted, in papers filed today with U.S. District Judge Peter Economus in Columbus, also supported the military groups’ Aug. 1
petition to intervene while defending as necessary the law
giving armed forces members and certain overseas voters three
more early voting days than other Ohioans.  “State and federal law has always treated military and
overseas voters differently than any other voters” DeWine and
Husted said in today’s filing.  Ohio, which has 18 electoral votes, has been a bellwether
in U.S. politics and no Republican has been elected president
without a victory there. Obama, a Democrat, won the state in
2008 with 51.5 percent of the vote.  Ohio had a single early voting period for all voters prior
to the passage of legislation signed by Republican Governor  John Kasich  in 2011 and 2012.  Arguing the disparity is unconstitutional, the Obama for
America organization is seeking a court order nullifying those
parts of Ohio law that created the staggered deadlines.  Equal Time  While the Obama campaign said it supports the military
groups’ bid to participate in the case, it questioned why all
Ohio voters weren’t afforded an equal amount of early voting
time.  “The question before the court is whether, in the
circumstances of this case, the  state of Ohio  may arbitrarily
and without justification withdraw from all other Ohio eligible
voters the same right they previously had to vote the weekend
and Monday before Election Day,” the campaign said in its Aug.
3 filing.  Economus has scheduled a hearing for Aug. 15.  “It is both laudable and constitutionally appropriate for
the state to do everything in its power to facilitate voting by
military personnel in any form,” the National Guard Association
of the U.S. and other groups said in their Aug. 1 intervention
request.  Husted, in a Bloomberg Businessweek interview today, called
the Obama for America lawsuit “silly.”  The curb on early voting for a majority of Ohioans is
needed to allow local election boards to synchronize the early
balloting records with those at 9,800 polling places to prevent
people from voting twice, said Husted.  “There’s a balance we have to strike between access and
accuracy,” he said.  The case is  Obama for America v. Husted , 12-cv-636, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Ohio  (Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  