-- Obama Resists Gun Control Advocates’ Call for Legislation
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-08-06T22:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/obama-resists-gun-control-advocates-call-for-stemming-violence.html
Calls from  gun control  groups for
more federal restrictions on firearms after the second mass
shooting in the U.S. in less than a month will probably go
unanswered.  A day after a gunman killed six people in a Sikh temple
near  Milwaukee  and 16 days after the theater shooting in
Colorado left 12 dead, President  Barack Obama  told reporters he
would “examine additional ways that we can reduce violence.”
While offering condolences to mass victims for the second time
in less than a month, he made no mention of gun control.  Obama’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , indicated there will be no
new legislative initiatives from the White House and added that
Congress has shown no sign of acting on the issue.  “We need to take common-sense measures that protect Second
Amendment rights and make it harder for those who should not
have weapons under existing law from obtaining weapons,” Carney
told reporters at the White House.  With gun rights a politically difficult issue for Obama in
swing states including  Pennsylvania , the president’s position
aligns him with his opponent in the November election,
Republican  Mitt Romney . That’s not surprising, said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a professor at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s
Annenberg School for Communication in Philadelphia.  Election Politics  “The likelihood that a president in a closely contested
election is going to do anything to mobilize the other
candidate’s base approaches zero,” Jamieson said. “If there’s
any possibility that the gun rights constituency isn’t enamored
of Romney, and hence might be less likely to vote, why would you
want to rile them up?”  During his 2008 campaign, Obama supported reinstating the
assault weapon ban. Romney signed an assault weapon ban as
governor of  Massachusetts . When the subject was raised again
after the July 20 mass shooting at a  Colorado  movie theater,
Obama indirectly reiterated his backing for the expired assault
weapons law while emphasizing the nation must do more to prevent
the daily violence that claims lives in many cities.  “Every day and a half, the number of young people we lose
to violence is about the same as the number of people we lost in
that movie theater,” Obama said in a July 25 speech to the
National Urban League in  New Orleans .  While such high-profile tragedies spur talk of “new
reforms, of new legislation,” Obama said in the address, “too
often the efforts are defeated by politics and by lobbying.”  Mayors’ Call  Obama has promised administrative action to make sure
background checks on gun buyers are thorough.  Romney, in the aftermath of the Colorado shooting, said new
laws wouldn’t “make a difference in this type of tragedy.”  The group Mayors Against Illegal Guns has run television
ads during the Olympics calling for Obama and Romney to lay out
specific plans for reducing gun violence.  New York  Mayor  Michael
Bloomberg , founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent
company of Bloomberg News, is co-chairman of the group.  “Every day that goes by without action, 34 more people
will be murdered with guns,” he said in a statement yesterday.
“The people who want to run this country need to tell us their
plans to stop the bloodshed,”  The U.S. Conference of Mayors issued a statement today
calling for “reasonable changes in our gun laws and regulations
that could help to prevent senseless tragedies such as the one
that has shocked Oak Creek and the nation.”  Gun-control advocates say Obama’s position may change if he
wins re-election.  Public Divided  “In his heart he knows the right thing to do but he’s not
doing it,” Dan Gross, president of the Brady Campaign to
Prevent Gun Violence, said in an interview. “I think it’s fair
to say it’s because of politics, which is a shame.”  “It is truly an example where both men seeking the highest
office in our nation are not listening to what the American
public wants,” he said.  The public is split on the issue. A  poll  taken by the Pew
Research Center July 26-29 found that 47 percent of Americans
say controlling guns is the priority, while 46 percent say it’s
more important to protect the right to own guns.  The  National Rifle Association , based in the Washington
suburb of Fairfax,  Virginia , is the biggest advocate for the
firearms owners. Its 4 million members are a key constituency
for Republicans. A Gallup Organization poll last October found
that Republicans are more likely to have guns in their homes
than Democrats, 55 percent to 40 percent. The survey showed 47
percent of American adults have a firearm at home.  NRA Reaction  Andrew Arulanandam, the NRA’s director of public affairs,
said in an e-mail today that the group “joins all Americans in
extending our heartfelt condolences to the victims, their
families and the community affected by this tragedy. We will not
have further comment until all the facts are known.”  Larry Pratt, the executive director of the 300,000 member
Gun Owners of America, based in Springfield, Virginia, was more
direct: “We would encourage the president to come out for
renewal of the Clinton gun ban. That would ensure that he’s
defeated.” Military-style rifles were banned under President
 Bill Clinton , a law which later expired.  Pratt wasn’t much more enthusiastic about Romney, who
supported restrictions on assault weapons in the past. “The
need right now is to get rid of the president, so we’re willing
to support Mitt Romney simply because that’s the instrument by
which we’re going to remove the president,” Pratt said.  Even as Obama repeatedly says he won’t seek to restrict gun
rights, advocates on both sides said they would expect Obama to
return to the issue of gun control in a second term.  “He has demonstrated on other issues like marriage
equality his ability to very admirably lead and follow his heart
and do the right thing,” Gross said. “I would propose that
there’s no issue that’s more important than this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  