-- Oil Drops From Two-Week High as Investors Seek Profit After Gain
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-08-07T06:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/oil-trades-near-two-week-high-after-germany-backs-ecb-bond-sales.html
Oil slid from the highest close in
two weeks in  New York  as investors sought to profit from crude’s
5.8 percent advance in two days.  Futures slipped as much as 0.5 percent after climbing 0.9
percent yesterday. Prices are declining in New York as they
approach technical resistance at $92.75 a barrel, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. crude stockpiles probably fell
by  1.6 million barrels  last week, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of nine analysts before an Energy Department report
tomorrow. Tropical storm Ernesto was forecast to become a
hurricane as it heads for  Mexico ’s Bay of Campeche.  “If you come up to the topside then naturally you’re going
to see people take profit,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief
executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-markets
newsletter in Sydney, who predicts West Texas Intermediate oil
faces technical resistance at $92.50 a barrel.  Oil for September delivery slid as much as 42 cents to
$91.78 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $91.91 at 2:28 p.m. Singapore time. It
settled yesterday at $92.20, the highest level since July 19.
Prices are 7 percent lower this year.  Brent crude  for September settlement was at $109.35 a
barrel, down 20 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $17.45 from $17.35 yesterday.  Fibonacci Retracement  Prices are sliding after nearing the 50-percent Fibonacci
retracement of the rise to the March intraday high of $110.55 a
barrel from the October 2011 low of $74.95. Crude halted an
advance near the same indicator last month. Sell orders tend to
be clustered near chart-resistance levels.  Tropical Storm  Ernesto  was forecast to strengthen on its
path to the Bay of Campeche, home to most of Mexico’s crude
production. The hurricane center’s tracking map shows Ernesto
making landfall tomorrow on the northern coast of Belize,
crossing the Yucatan into the Bay of Campeche as a tropical
storm and then returning to land in southern Mexico.  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil company, has
wells in the Bay of Campeche including the Cantarell and Ku-
Maloob-Zaap production areas.  Mexico  was the third-largest oil
exporter to the U.S. in 2011, supplying 1.1 million barrels a
day, data from the U.S. Energy Department show.  Chevron Refinery  Separately,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said it contained a fire that
broke out in the crude unit at its Richmond refinery, the
largest in Northern California.  The company was bringing down units after a blaze at the
No. 4 crude unit started yesterday around 6:15 p.m. local time,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the operation who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.  Flames were brought under control as of 10:30 p.m. local
time, and all employees at the refinery have been accounted for,
said Melissa Ritchie, a Chevron spokeswoman at the plant. The
plant reported an evacuation after the fire broke out, a filing
with the California Emergency Management Agency shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  