-- Oil-Tanker Losses Persist as Owners Contend With Vessel Surplus
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-08-06T15:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/oil-tanker-losses-persist-as-owners-contend-with-vessel-surplus.html
Losses for oil-tanker owners hauling
Middle East crude to  Asia  narrowed, amid an oversupply of
vessels for loading in the  Persian Gulf  and few cargoes.  Daily  losses  for very large crude carriers on the benchmark
Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage shrank to $5,780, figures from the
 Baltic Exchange  in London showed today. VLCCs were losing $6,356
a day on Aug. 3, exchange data showed. The ships were earning
$41,093 daily at this year’s high in April.  The VLCC fleet will expand 6.9 percent this year, above 4.7
percent demand growth, according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s
largest shipbroker. The supply of the largest crude carriers in
the gulf over the next 30 days shrank by one ship to 84,
according to Kevin Sy, a Singapore-based freight-derivatives
broker at Marex Spectron Group.  “Still more than enough ships around,” Sy wrote. “With
77 ships available from now until the end of the month it’s
unlikely rates will make a dramatic rally today or any day
soon.”  The exchange’s assessments don’t reflect speed cuts aimed
at reducing fuel costs, vessel owners’ largest expense. Owners
can boost returns by slowing ships on return journeys after
unloading of cargoes. The price of ship fuel, or bunkers,
slipped 0.4 percent to $621.93 a metric ton, the figures showed.  Charter  costs  for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage gained 0.9
percent to 34.34 industry-standard Worldscale points, exchange
figures showed. Each of the tankers can hold 2 million barrels
of crude.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s
level means hire costs on the benchmark route are 34.34 percent
of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, fell
0.5 percent to 623, according to the exchange. The gauge is at
the lowest level since July 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  