-- Oil Rises With U.S. Equities as Germany Backs ECB Plan
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-08-06T19:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/oil-drops-on-concern-europe-s-debt-crisis-is-worsening.html
Oil advanced to a two-week high as
U.S. stocks gained and as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government backed the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying plan,
adding to optimism that the region’s debt crisis will ease.  Prices climbed 0.9 percent after the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose to a three-month high amid better-than-forecast
earnings. The euro strengthened against the dollar after
Merkel’s deputy spokesman, Georg Streiter, said the government
backed the ECB’s plan to help bring down borrowing costs in
Spain and Italy.  “The Germans seem ready to go along with the ECB bond-
buying proposal,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts.
“Europe may be coming around, and anything that points to an
economic recovery is good for oil. Oil moved together with
stocks and the dollar.”  Oil for September delivery increased 80 cents to $92.20 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since July 19. Prices have climbed 19 percent since
June 28, when they closed at the 2012 low of $77.69.  Brent crude  for September increased 61 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $109.55 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  “The stock market is edging higher and we are seeing some
buyers coming in,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker
at Tradition Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut. “The euro is
rising against the dollar. It does look like the market has
higher levels in front of it.”  S&P, Euro  The S&P index rose as much as 0.6 percent to 1,399.63, the
highest intraday level since May 3. The euro climbed as much as
0.5 percent to $1.2444, erasing an earlier decline after
Streiter told reporters at a regular press briefing in Berlin
today that the ECB’s plan “has the backing of the government.”  A stronger euro and weaker dollar increase oil’s appeal as
an investment alternative.  “Everyone is just following equities and the dollar,”
said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of
Iitrader.com in Chicago. “Traders want some clarity from Europe
and they are responding to headlines from Germany.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  signaled on Aug. 2 that the bank
will join forces with governments to buy sovereign bonds in
sufficient quantities to remove all doubts about the future of
the euro.  The 27 members of the European Union accounted for 16
percent of global oil demand in 2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy, released in June.  Commodity Prices  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 17 that
policy makers were studying options for further stimulus. The
Fed refrained from announcing steps at a meeting last week.  “If you get further central bank balance sheet expansion,
which seems to be what’s been indicated, you’ll see commodity
prices do better,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist
at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.4 billion.  Prices also gained on tension in Syria, where opposition
leaders said Prime Minister Riad Hijab has defected in the
highest-ranking departure since the uprising against President
Bashar al-Assad began last year.  Oil fell earlier on projections that Tropical Storm Ernesto
will cross the Yucatan Peninsula, lessening the threat to oil
platforms in the Gulf, home to 29 percent of U.S. production.  Toward Belize  Ernesto gained strength in the Caribbean Sea east of
Nicaragua and will probably become a hurricane today on a track
toward landfall in northern Belize,  the U.S. National Hurricane
Center  said in an  advisory  at 2 p.m. East Coast time.  “We rallied last week on concerns about the tropical
storm,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price
Futures Group in Chicago. “Some of the excitement last week has
passed a little bit.”  Hedge funds  reduced bullish oil bets in the week ended July
31 for the first time in three weeks, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on
Aug. 3. The wagers dropped 2.6 percent to 137,034 futures and
options combined.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 374,581
contracts as of 3:27 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 628,555
contracts on Aug. 3, 12 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.43 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  