-- Olympic Gold Spurs Drink Maker Provexis: London Mover
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2012-08-10T15:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/olympic-gold-spurs-surge-for-drink-maker-provexis-london-mover.html
(Corrects loss per share figure in eighth paragraph of
story published on Aug. 6.)  Provexis Plc (PXS) , the maker of gel sports
drinks favored by tennis star  Andy Murray , surged 30 percent
after the Scotsman was crowned Olympic tennis champion.  The sports-nutrition company said in May it was expecting a
boost during the  Summer Olympics  after it received informal
backing from Murray, who asked Windsor, England-based Provexis
for a supply before the Australian Open in January. Olympian
Rebecca Romero, who won a gold in cycling in 2008 and a silver
medal in rowing in 2004, is an official promoter.  Provexis rose by  0.45 pence  to 1.95 pence today in London,
the biggest gain for the stock in more than eight months. It was
the second-biggest increase among stocks on the FTSE AIM All-
Share Index.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Moon, a former
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  executive, said in a May interview that
Provexis has a “powerful niche brand” that can serve “elite
athletes” better than mass-market leaders, which include
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s Gatorade and Glaxo’s Lucozade. Provexis products
include Science in Sport gel drinks, powders and bars.  A Mail on Sunday columnist wrote yesterday that the
company’s performance “should pick up significantly” as it
enters more supermarkets.  The company says that drinking its 60-milliliter packets of
Go gels can help athletes maintain endurance, prevent fatigue
and aid recovery. The products include versions with caffeine,
nitrates to increase stamina or choline to help the body derive
energy from fat.  Growth Market  The sports and energy drink market gained 14 percent last
year to $41.5 billion, according to Euromonitor International.
Provexis may benefit from the  Olympic Games  encouraging more
people to participate in sports, it said in a statement last
week. The company also said it aims to obtain patent protection
for its technologies.  Provexis shares fell 19 percent on July 31 after the
company reported that a restructuring led to an annual loss of
0.28 pence per share. Revenue in the 12 months ended March 31
rose to 3.48 million pounds ($5.42 million) from 50,000 pounds.  Today’s advance gave the company a market value of 29
million pounds. More than 43 million of the company’s shares
were traded, compared with a daily average of 4.4 million this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in  London  at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  