-- Olympic Drug Cheats Face Clamp Down on Performance Boost
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/olympic-drug-cheats-face-clamp-down-on-performance-boost.html
 Elite Olympic athletes looking for
an edge, to say nothing of professional sports figures, have
long had their eye on experimental performance enhancing drugs
that are still in the development stage.  Such drugs are especially sought after by some athletes
because no tests exist to detect them. Now companies led by
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  are working with the  World
Anti-Doping Agency , better known as WADA, to take steps to force
athletes who may be thinking about cheating to reconsider.  “It’s hard enough to develop and discover a new drug and
make sure it’s safe and efficacious enough without having to
worry it’s being abused,” said Steve Clarke, who runs human
trials for an experimental anti-anemia drug from London-based
Glaxo. “They’re cheats, but they’re still human, so there’s
concern about them taking something that’s not safe.”  In a July  report  to drugmakers, WADA said it feared that
treatments in clinical trials, which can take 10 years from
discovery to approval, could be diverted from the patients who
need them to athletes seeking a competitive advantage.  Athletes intent on obtaining as yet unreleased new drugs
have ways to get them. An experimental drug may have multiple
trials going on simultaneously with hundreds or thousands of
patients. An unscrupulous athlete or doctor could divert some of
the medicine from trial patients, said Andrew Emmett, managing
director of science and regulatory affairs at the  Biotechnology
Industry Organization  in  Washington , or BIO.  Blood Medicines  Endurance athletes looking for a boost tend to seek anti-
anemia medicines because they enhance the body’s ability to
create oxygen-carrying blood cells. Along with anabolic steroids
and human-growth hormones, they’re some of the most common drugs
used by dopers.  In June, the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency charged Cyclist Lance Armstrong and his teammates on the U.S. Postal Team with taking
anemia drugs to win races, including the Tour de  France .
Armstrong denied the charges saying they were “baseless” and
“motivated by spite,” adding that tests on him never found
evidence of such a drug.  Since 2008, athletes from competitive
cyclists to Olympic runners have tested positive for the drugs.  Epogen from  Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen was one
of the first compounds to stimulate red blood-cell production in
anemia patients using erythropoietin, a hormone released
normally in response to decreased levels of oxygen in body
tissues. Used properly, the injection is meant to treat highly
anemic patients suffering from late-stage kidney failure. It has
since been joined by other drugs in the same family of
compounds, like Aranesp, also made by Amgen, and  Roche (ROG)  Holding
AG’s Mircera.  Oxygen Boost  In healthy athletes, the drugs can boost their blood’s
oxygen-carrying abilities beyond normal levels, helping them
cycle up mountains, run faster and swim longer than competitors.
Glaxo’s  experimental drug  would have a similar effect, could be
cheaper to manufacture, and as a pill rather than an injection,
wouldn’t be as difficult to take.  That’s why the company flagged the drug to WADA and is
helping on test development, said Clarke, who wouldn’t name the
compound or say whether accurate screening had been identified.
WADA keeps such things confidential, he said.  “What we’d hope is that by publicizing the relationship
with WADA, it will act as a deterrent, that people won’t use
GSK’s drugs in this way,” Clarke said.  Guidelines announced July 23 by WADA, BIO, and the
International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers &
Associations set up the first formal process allowing drugmakers
to work closely with the anti-doping authorities.  Potential Targets  BIO’s Emmett said the companies have agreed to look in
their pipelines for any drug that may help build muscle or
extend endurance, paying special attention to compounds that
have similar chemical structures or mechanisms of action to
those already known to be used in sports doping.  When they find them, the drugmakers will alert anti-doping
authorities, who will decide whether the compounds should be
banned and whether tests for their presence in blood should be
quickly developed.  “Most of the tests are typical ones you’d be doing during
 drug development , regardless,” Emmett said by telephone.  “It
isn’t intended to be an added burden on the drug development
process. The earlier we can prepare, the better chances we have
to make sure these products don’t get into the hands of athletes
who shouldn’t be using them.”  Roche Drug  Roche has already done that with its drug Mircera, also
used against anemia, according to the world doping organization.
In 2008, while competing in the Tour De France, Italian cyclist
Riccardo Ricco was accused of having the drug in his system,
after a test Roche helped develop recorded a positive result.  Glaxo’s Clarke also is an amateur cyclist, and as a fan of
the sport’s professional ranks hopes to help keep them clean. In
his spare time, he’s pedaled up some of the same French mountain
passes used by athletes in the Tour, cycling’s most prestigious
race.  “You lug your slack, sorry, body over these hills at a
pitifully slow pace, and then you watch as these guys just fly
up the hills,” he said. “If any sports fan thinks they’re
doing that just by cheating, it takes away from the magic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  