-- Momenta, Samsung, Zynga, Netflix: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-06T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/momenta-samsung-zynga-netflix-intellectual-property.html
Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MNTA)  is
unlikely to win its patent-infringement case over copies of the
blood-thinner Lovenox, so Watson Pharmaceutics Inc. can sell its
version until a trial is held, a U.S. appeals court ruled.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit on Aug. 3
vacated an order that would have prevented Watson partner
Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Inc. from selling the copy until an
infringement trial can be held and sent the case back to the
lower court for further proceedings.  “Momenta has not established a likelihood of success on
its claim on infringement,” the court ruled in a 2-1 decision
posted on its website. The panel said the trial judge might want
to consider whether to issue a ruling of non-infringement.  Momenta owns a patent related to enoxaparin, the active
ingredient in Lovenox, and gets a share of the profit earned
from generic Lovenox sold by partner  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz unit.
Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for Parsippany, New Jersey-based
Watson, said the company was pleased with the ruling. Officials
with Momenta, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, didn’t
immediately return messages seeking comment.  Sanofi (SAN) , the Paris-based maker of the branded medicine,
reported 2.1 billion euros ($2.6 billion) in Lovenox sales last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Copying the drug
is difficult because it is made by cleaving raw heparin, an
anticoagulant, with a type of sugar chain, according to court
filings. Momenta’s patent is for a process to ensure the generic
version of enoxaparin contains a certain percentage of the
sugars, which the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  listed as a
requirement to get approval.  Momenta’s version, the first copy of Lovenox on the market,
was getting $260 million a quarter of its version, the Federal
Circuit said, relying on court submissions.  Amphastar argued that its use of the patented method was
allowable because it was related to submitting information to
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to prove its version was
an equivalent of Lovenox.  The case is Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Amphastar
Pharmaceuticals Inc., 12-1062, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Momenta
Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
11cv11681, U.S. District Court for the District of
Massachusetts.  Samsung Defeats Apple Bid for Sanction in IPhone Patent Case  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  defeated a bid for judicial
sanctions sought by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over a release of evidence in the
iPhone patent dispute now on trial in San Jose federal court in
California.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh dismissed Apple’s request Aug
3. Aimed at punishing a Samsung lawyer’s public disclosure of
evidence excluded from trial. Koh polled jurors on the matter
and concluded they could remain in place, saying she was
“satisfied” the jury could remain “fair and impartial.”  Apple, in an Aug. 1 filing with Koh, said a July 31
statement authorized by Samsung’s lawyer was designed to convey
to jurors, through the media, arguments contesting Apple’s
central allegations that Samsung copied the iPhone and iPad. The
move was “bad faith litigation misconduct” meant to prejudice
the jury, Apple said.  Koh said Aug. 3 that Samsung and its lawyers at Quinn
Emmanuel Uquhart & Sullivan LLP chose to “highlight evidence
that they both knew was excluded,” and she reserved the right
to investigate the release further. She interviewed each juror
separately, asking if they had read or heard anything about the
case since testimony ended July 31.  Apple had said that if Koh doesn’t decide the case in its
favor outright, she should tell the jury that Samsung engaged in
“serious misconduct.” Apple proposed that Koh tell jurors
Samsung copied the designs and features from Apple products, and
preclude Samsung from any further mention of evidence regarding
a pre-existing design.  Samsung, in an Aug. 2 filing, said Apple’s request should
be rejected because it’s “frivolous at every level,” and
because Samsung’s statement was protected free speech.  John Quinn , the Samsung attorney who approved the release
of the information, said a statement to the court that it was
done in response to a request from members of the media and that
the information was already in public court filings made by
Samsung or Apple and wasn’t intended to prejudice the jury.  In the statement that Quinn approved for the media, Samsung
said that Koh’s ruling means the company “was not allowed to
tell the jury the full story and show the pre-iPhone design for
that and other phones that were in development at Samsung in
2006, before the iPhone.”  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).
Neology to Ask Delaware Federal Court for Infringement Finding  Neology Inc., a company that makes radio frequency
identification products, said it will ask a federal court to
enter an order finding a competitor has infringed a patent on a
technology used on toll bridges and roads.  The Poway, California-based company filed suit in federal
court in Wilmington, Delaware, in July 2011, accusing  Federal
Signal Corp. (FSS)  of patent infringement. In dispute were six patents
related to RFID and secure identification systems.  In a report filed with the court June 18, U.S. Magistrate
Judge Mary Pat Thynge said that Neology had demonstrated a
likelihood of success on the infringement claim for patent
7,081,819, and that Federal Signal failed to raise any
substantial questions of infringement or validity. She did
recommend denial of Neology’s request for an expedited order
barring Federal Signal’s use of the patented technology.  Judge Leonard P. Stark, to whom the case is assigned,
issued an order Aug. 2 accepting the report and the magistrate
judge’s recommendations, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Neology said in an Aug. 3 statement that in the wake of the
court’s acceptance of the report, it will enter a request that
the court find the patent infringed on this and the five other
parents.  The California company also has two other patent suits
against  Oak Brook , Illinois-based Federal Signal, both filed May
21 in federal court in  Los Angeles .  The Delaware case is Neology Inc. v. Federal Signal Corp.,
1:11-cv-00672-LPS-MPT, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware. The California cases are Neology Inc., v. Federal
Signal Corp., 8:12-cv-00817, and  2:12-cv-04422-JAK-JPR, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Nike’s End Run Around Olympics Policy Features Many Londons  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the Oregon-based maker of athletic gear, has
gone to London in efforts to step around the restrictions on the
use of Olympics trademarks in its ads, the Globe and Mail
newspaper  reported .  The company is  running an ad  that’s part of its “Find Your
Greatness” campaign that features athletes training and
competing in various non-U.K. Londons around the world, the
newspaper reported.  The ad features athletes in London, Nigeria; London, Ohio;
London, Jamaica; and runners competing in a marathon that runs
through London, Ontario, according to the newspaper.  A  second Nike ad  features a runner costumed as a flower
running in the Ontario marathon, the Globe and Mail reported.  Dr. Dre’s Beats Headphones Seen on Athletes’ Heads Despite Rules  Dr. Dre, the rapper and music entrepreneur, may have made a
successful side step around the London Olympics committee’s
rules against so-called “ambush marketing” by companies that
aren’t official sponsors of the 2012 games, the U.K.’s Guardian
newspaper  reported.   Dre’s company  Beats Electronics LLC  has given its Beats
headphones to the British Olympics team branded with U.K. flag
colors, according to the Guardian.  Other nation’s athletes, including U.S. Olympian Michael
Phelps, have been seen wearing the Beats headphones to block out
background noise before their competitions, the newspaper
reported.  Japan’s  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , which also makes headphones, is an
official sponsor of the games, according to the Guardian.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Electronic Arts Sues Zynga for Infringement Over ‘The Ville’  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , the second largest U.S. video-game
maker, sued  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  claiming the company’s “The Ville”
video game infringed copyrights for “The Sims Social,” a game
that runs on social media site  Facebook Inc. (FB)   Zynga’s Facebook game “The Ville” copies original
elements of The Sims Social, lawyers for Electronic Arts said in
a complaint the company said was filed in federal court in  San
Francisco . The filing couldn’t immediately be confirmed from
court records.  “The Sims Social” was released in August 2011 and has
tens of millions of users, and a current user base of several
million active players on Facebook,  Redwood City , California-
based Electronic Arts said in an e-mail.  Electronic Arts seeks a court order barring copyright
infringement and unspecified damages.  Reggie Davis, Zynga’s general counsel, said in an e-mail
statement that The Ville builds on the San Francisco-based
company’s earlier games.  “It’s unfortunate that EA thought that this was an
appropriate response to our game, and clearly demonstrates a
lack of understanding of basic copyright principles,” Davis
said. “It’s also ironic that EA brings this suit shortly after
launching SimCity Social, which bears an uncanny resemblance to
Zynga’s “CityVille game.”  The case is Electronic Arts v. Zynga, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Netflix Turns to Crowdsourcing for Aid in Creating Subtitles  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the world’s largest video-subscription
service, has set up a  crowdsourced subtitling community  on the
video-captioning service Amara, the TechDirt tech news website
 reported .  The aim of the project is to provide greater access to
content for the disabled and hard-of-hearing by outsourcing the
creation of the subtitles to a group of people, according to
TechDirt.  The provision of subtitles will aid  Los Gatos , California-
based Netflix in complying with accessibility requirements
mandated by the Americans With Disabilities Act, according to
TechDirt.  The TechDirt website noted that earlier, a student in
Norway who provided downloadable crowd-sourced subtitles for
films was found guilty of copyright infringement in Norway.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 