-- Hong Kong Minister’s Property Interests Draw Controversy
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-08-06T08:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/hong-kong-development-head-chan-knew-unit-was-partitioned.html
Hong Kong’s five-week old
government was rocked by its third controversy involving
senior officials, as Secretary for Development  Paul Chan 
acknowledged he knew about the sub-renting of a unit owned by
a company in which he was a director.  A property bought by Harvest Charm Development Ltd. had
been sub-divided when it was purchased in 1994, the
development secretary said in a statement on the government
website. He said in a previous statement that he had “no
knowledge” about suspected unauthorized alterations at the
site now.  Chan’s statement comes after his predecessor resigned
amid allegations of abusing a government allowance and new
Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying acknowledged there were
unauthorized building structures at his home. Leung said when
he campaigned for office in March that he would address
building safety issues associated with sub-divided units.  Chan said he and his wife will exit  Hong Kong ’s real
estate market to “allay public concerns” and only buy
property in the city for personal use.  Leung, 57, pledged before he was installed as chief
executive to raise the income of the poorest and boost Hong
Kong’s housing supply.  Prices Surged  Property prices in Hong Kong have surged more than 80
percent since 2009, Centaline Property Agency data show. The
city is the world’s most expensive place to live, according to
 Savills Plc. (SVS)   Hong Kong has the widest wealth gap in  Asia , and the
average gross household income of the poorest 10 percent of
the population fell to HK$2,170 ($280) per month in 2011 from
HK$2,590 in 2001, according to a June 18 census report.  Chan took over from predecessor Mak Chai-kwong as
development secretary on July 30, after Mak resigned on July
12 following allegations reported in the Apply Daily that he
abused his government housing allowances.  The  Independent Commission Against Corruption  released a
statement on the same day saying that they had arrested a
secretary of a government bureau on charges of violating
bribery laws over housing allowances.  Leung’s election as chief executive was unsuccessfully
challenged in court by two lawmakers, after it was discovered
that there were unauthorized building additions at his house,
including a trellis, a gate that provided access to the road
and a cover over a parking space.  More than 110,000 protesters took to the streets in an
annual march on the day Leung took office to show their
disapproval, according estimates by a pollster from the
University of Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  