-- Morgan Stanley Sued by Singapore Firm Over Pinnacle Notes
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-08-07T04:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/morgan-stanley-sued-by-singapore-firm-over-pinnacle-notes.html
Morgan Stanley & Co. (MS)  was accused in a
lawsuit by Hong Leong Finance Ltd. of Singapore of deceptively
selling investments it had designed to fail.  Hong Leong said in a complaint filed today in federal court
in  Manhattan  that it entered into a distribution agreement with
the investment bank to sell about $72.4 million worth of the so-
called Pinnacle notes created from August 2006 to December 2007.
The notes later failed and the Singapore-based company was
required to compensate customers for at least $32 million in
losses, according to the filing.  Morgan Stanley sold the notes as relatively safe
investments while rigging them to fail for its own benefit, Hong
Leong claimed. Hong Leong describes itself as a local retail
financial firm similar to a savings and loan association.  “Morgan Stanley secretly, deceptively and wrongfully
invested the investors’ principal in very risky underlying
assets,” according to the complaint, filed by David S.
Stellings, a lawyer for Hong Leong.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Morgan Stanley, declined to comment on the suit.  The investments at issue were described to the  Singapore 
banking firm as synthetic collateralized debt obligations based
on the performance of major corporations and sovereign nations
with high credit ratings, according to the complaint.  Riskier Investments  Morgan Stanley instead tied the notes to much riskier
investments in real estate-related companies and troubled
Icelandic banks, including Glitnir Bank HF and Kaupthing Bank
HF, the Singapore firm claimed.  Morgan Stanley issued the notes through a special-purpose
entity it controlled called Pinnacle Performance Ltd., according
to the complaint. The investment bank was also positioned to
profit when the notes failed because it had entered into swap
transactions with the noteholders through another affiliated
entity, Morgan Stanley Capital Services Inc., the plaintiff
claimed.  “When Morgan Stanley’s ’rigged’ underlying assets failed,
money from customers was transferred to MS Capital,” Hong Leong
said in the complaint.  The suit asserts claims against Morgan Stanley including
fraud, negligent misrepresentation and breach of contract.  In December, U.S. District Judge Leonard Sand ruled that
the investment bank couldn’t ask a court in Singapore to block
investors from suing outside the country over losses in Pinnacle
notes.  The case is  Hong Leong Finance Ltd. (HLF)  v. Pinnacle Performance
Ltd., 12-cv-6010, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  The earlier case is Dandong v. Pinnacle Performance Ltd.,
10-cv-08086, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  