-- How Google Can Avert the Next Financial Crisis
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2012-08-06T22:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/how-google-might-help-us-avert-a-financial-crisis.html
(Corrects first paragraph to reflect that Google doesn’t
need to act.)  The mathematical insight that turned
Google Inc. into a multibillion-dollar company has the potential
to help the world avert the next financial crisis. If only banks
made public the data required to do the job.  Sixteen years ago, the founders of Google -- computer
scientists  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin  -- introduced an algorithm
to measure the “importance” of Web pages relative to any set
of keywords.  Known as PageRank, it works on the notion that Web pages
effectively vote for other pages by linking to them. The most
important ones, Page and Brin reasoned, should be those drawing
links from many other pages, especially from other really
important ones.  If this definition sounds circular, it is. It also captures
an authentic reality, which is why respecting it gives far
superior results. Page and Brin’s breakthrough involved using
mathematics to make it work. The required ideas don’t go much
beyond high-school algebra, although it takes lots of computing
power to make something as sprawling as the World Wide Web
possible.  What could this have to do with finance? Quite a lot. The
systemic risk that turned the U.S. subprime-lending crisis into
a global disaster is circular, too. We can’t identify it simply
by looking for the banks with the most assets or the biggest
portfolios of risky loans. What matters is how many links a bank
has to other institutions, how strong those links are and how
risky those other banks are, not least because they too have
links to other risky banks.  Creating DebtRank  Something like PageRank might be just the right thing to
cut through it. That’s the argument, at least, made by a team of
European physicists and economists  in a new study . Their
algorithm, DebtRank, seeks to measure the total economic value
that would be destroyed if a bank became distressed or went into
default. It does so by moving outward from the bank through the
web of links in the financial system to estimate all the various
consequences likely to accrue from one failure. Banks connected
to more banks with high DebtRank scores would, naturally, have
higher DebtRank scores themselves. (I have put a little of the
technical detail  on my blog .)  As a demonstration, the researchers calculated DebtRank on
the basis of the known network of equity investments linking
institutions -- pretty much the best they can do with publicly
available data. If Bank A owns stock in Bank B, the two are
linked. This network, of course, reflects only a subset of the
many links created by derivatives and other instruments, so the
calculation is a little like working out the best driving route
from  New York  to  Los Angeles  while ignoring two-thirds of all
the roads. Nevertheless, it’s useful for demonstrating what
might be possible with more complete data.  The analysis offers some surprises. At the peak of the
financial crisis, in November 2008, for example, DebtRank scores
for the largest 20 or so banks show that simple bank size isn’t
as important as we have come to think. Institutions such as
Barclays Plc, Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc presented more systemic risk
than did Citigroup Inc. or Deutsche Bank AG, despite being
significantly smaller in total assets.  Wells Fargo & Co . stands
out even more: It presented as much systemic risk as Citigroup,
despite having only a quarter of the assets.  An algorithm alone can’t save the world, and this isn’t the
final word on the best way to measure systemic risk. Yet the
apparent superiority of the DebtRank approach underscores how
our ability to monitor the financial system depends wholly on
the availability of data. Currently, most of the information
that would be needed to calculate DebtRank or any other similar
measure is simply not public.  Imagine Transparency  Imagine a world in which banks and other financial
institutions were legally required to disclose absolutely all of
their assets and liabilities to central banks, which would in
turn make that information public on a website. Regulators --
indeed, anyone -- would then be able to see the whole network
and assess a bank’s situation in full clarity. Anyone so
inclined could calculate measures such as DebtRank and assess
how much any particular bank is contributing to potential
financial instability.  With full transparency, it’s just possible that the core
business of lenders would go back to assessing the
creditworthiness of borrowers. They would need to do so to
maintain a good reputation and to borrow themselves, as any
risky loans they made would be known to all. In such a
situation, the economist and physicist Stefan Thurner of Medical
University of Vienna  suggests , “financial institutions would
only survive and prosper if they assess the risk of others
better than their peers.”  That is a radical idea, so radical it is almost certainly a
political nonstarter. But as the British physicist William
Thomson, also known as Lord Kelvin, put it back in the 19th
century: “What you cannot measure, you cannot hope to
improve.” It’s a lasting piece of wisdom.  ( Mark Buchanan , a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how governments should brace
for  rising sea levels  and on  Knight Capital and computerized
trading ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  anti-Semitism in Egypt ; William
Pesek on  rebuilding the tsunami zone  with microfinance;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on improving  political TV shows ; Betsey Stevenson and
 Justin Wolfers  on the booming business in  empirical economics ;
Richard Cohen on  whether fourth is good enough  at the Olympics;
Caleb Scharf on how  massive black holes  regulate star creation.  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 