-- Panetta Abandons Push for 2013 Military Base Closings
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-06T18:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/panetta-abandons-push-for-2013-military-base-closings.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said
there will be no new round of military base closings next year,
abandoning a proposal he made in February that Congress was set
to oppose.  “It’s now clear obviously there will not be a round of
BRAC authorized” in 2013, Panetta said in a speech to the
Association of Defense Communities in Monterey,  California ,
referring to the base realignment and closure process, known as
BRAC.  “Frankly, this was no surprise,” he said, noting that in
anticipation of congressional opposition, he had not allocated
any money in the budget to initiate a new round of closings.  “I didn’t put any money on the provision,” Panetta said.
“But it’s an important debate to have and, frankly, it’s not
going away.”  The House and Senate Armed Services committees rejected a
new base-closing round in their versions of the annual defense
authorization bill for next year. Many lawmakers questioned the
effectiveness and fairness of the 2005 closure round.  “Now may not be the time for BRAC as our economy recovers,
but sooner or later, one way or another, the department is going
to need to take a hard look at its basing infrastructure as we
seek to reduce our overhead costs,” Panetta said in prepared
remarks.  The Pentagon chief had proposed two new closing rounds in
2013 and 2015, saying the Defense Department must cut excess
infrastructure as the military becomes  smaller .  Past Costs  Otherwise, money needed for training the troops will be
spent to maintain unneeded bases, he said today.  “It’s the very definition of hollowing out our force,”
Panetta said.  He acknowledged complaints from Congress that the cost of
previous closings “were way out of line from what was
predicted” in some cases. Even so, the prior rounds of closings
are saving about $8 billion a year, he said.  The Association of Defense Communities represents about 200
regions with a significant military presence, according to the
group’s website. The association, based in Washington, is
holding its annual conference in Monterey, Panetta’s hometown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  