-- Paulson Advantage Plus Hedge Fund Declines 2% Last Month
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-08-06T22:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/paulson-advantage-plus-hedge-fund-declines-2-last-month.html
John Paulson , the billionaire hedge-
fund manager coming off record losses in 2011, posted a 2
percent loss last month in his Advantage Plus Fund, according to
a monthly update to investors obtained by Bloomberg News.  The fund, which seeks to profit from corporate events such
as takeovers and bankruptcies and uses leverage to amplify
returns, is down 18 percent this year with the July loss.
Paulson’s Gold Fund, which can buy derivatives and other gold-
related investments, rose 0.2 percent in July and has declined
23 percent this year. Slumping gold-mining stocks have
contributed to declines in the Advantage funds and Gold Fund
this year.  The firm’s merger arbitrage, credit and recovery funds,
which comprise more than 60 percent of the firm’s $21 billion in
assets, rose this year on the firm’s “long event positions,”
Paulson said today in the letter to clients. Event-driven
managers bet on companies facing mergers, spinoffs and
bankruptcies.  “While the Advantage and Gold Funds’ performance is
negative on a year-to-date basis, we believe substantial upside
exists as our event catalysts unfold and the imbalance between
record high earnings and low valuation corrects across the gold
mining sector,” Paulson wrote.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for New York-based Paulson & Co.,
declined to comment on the returns.  Euro ‘Instability’  Paulson, 56, who became a billionaire by betting against
the U.S. subprime mortgage market, told investors last month he
sees a 50 percent chance the euro will unravel, according to an
investor who listened to the comments. An event causing a
breakup may happen in three months to two years, Paulson said on
a conference call reviewing second-quarter performance. In
April, he said the firm was shorting European sovereign bonds
and buying credit-default swaps on the region’s debt, or
protection against the chance of default.  “The instability in the euro region and risk and
consequence of the euro unraveling are too severe for us to
maintain significant market exposure,” Paulson said in today’s
letter. “Our funds are well-positioned for either a major
market dislocation or smaller market gyrations if the decline in
 Europe  is less drastic.”  Reduced Risk  Paulson told clients last month that his firm reduced risk
in some of its funds. So-called net exposure in its Advantage
funds is about 11 percent; at the Credit funds it’s minus 9
percent; and at the Recovery funds, which bet on assets Paulson
believes will benefit from a long-term economic advance, it’s 31
percent, the investor said. Net exposure is calculated by
subtracting the percentage of a hedge fund’s short positions, or
bets on falling securities, from its long holdings, or wagers on
rising stocks and bonds.  Paulson relayed his concerns about the  European debt crisis 
to investors this year after losing 51 percent in 2011 in his
Advantage Plus fund, which was driven by an ill-timed bet on a
U.S. economic recovery. Paulson’s Advantage Fund, which employs
a similar strategy to the Advantage Plus Fund, fell 1.6 percent
in July and 13 percent this year.  Paulson’s Recovery Fund, which invests in assets Paulson
believes will benefit from a long-term economic rebound, such as
financial services, insurance, hotels and real estate companies,
fell 0.8 percent in July and gained 3.9 percent in the first
seven months of 2012.  The Paulson Partners Enhanced fund, which invests in the
shares of companies involved in mergers, rose 1.3 percent last
month and 5.4 percent this year.  Paulson’s Credit Opportunities Fund increased 0.9 in July
and 3.8 percent this year. The fund jumped 590 percent in 2007,
largely because of Paulson’s bets against the U.S. subprime
mortgage market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  