-- Bonds for $105 Million to Cost School Over $1 Billion
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-08-07T20:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/payments-on-105-million-school-bond-will-top-1-billion.html
A  California  school district is
shouldering $1 billion in interest on a $105 million bond in a
deal intended to defer most of the payments for 35 to 40 years.  The Poway Unified School District, in San Diego County,
structured its 2011 sale of capital-appreciation  bonds  to avoid
debt service until 2033, with the largest sums -- more than $300
million each -- due in 2046 and in 2051, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Other issuers in California may pursue similar deals to
raise money for construction at a time when revenue from
property taxes is stagnant, said  Marilyn Cohen , founder of
Envision Capital Management Inc. in Los Angeles, who has 
$195 million of munis under management.  “I’m sure California is the worst offender,” Cohen said
in a telephone interview. “Property taxes have gone to hell in
a handbasket in California.”  Last year, Los Angeles County Treasurer Mark Saladino
advised school business officials there against long-term
capital-appreciation bonds, saying they would result in a
“significantly higher debt burden.”  Poway, a district of 33,000 students about 20 miles (35
kilometers) northeast of San Diego, issued the debt to modernize
schools in July 2011. It was part of as much as $179 million in
borrowing approved in a 2008 referendum that  passed  with 64
percent of the vote. The  San Diego  County Taxpayers Association
now regrets that it  endorsed  the proposal.  “There’s too much risk involved with issuing long-term
capital-appreciation bonds,” said Chris Cate, vice president of
the association. “They’re not callable bonds so you can’t pay
them off early. It’s too risky for taxpayers.”  Tax Promise  School officials promised at the time that the measure
wouldn’t raise taxes. There was no mention of how the deal would
be structured or what the interest payments would be.  The bond sale was managed by Stone & Youngberg LLC, which
was acquired by  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF)  after the Poway deal. A
Stifel spokeswoman, Linda Olszewski, wasn’t available for
comment yesterday.  Sharon Raffer, a spokeswoman for the district, said she had
no immediate comment on the ultimate cost of the borrowing
yesterday. Penny Ranftle, the school board president last year,
and Linda Vanderveen, the current president, didn’t respond to
telephone calls seeking comment.  Zero-Coupon  Tax-exempt capital-appreciation debt is similar to so-
called zero-coupon bonds, except that the investment return on
the principal is reinvested at a compound rate until maturity.
The securities usually yield more than coupon bonds to
compensate investors for the longer holding period before they
receive any income.  California school districts are increasingly deferring debt
payments because of declines in property values, which provide
the  tax revenue  to repay bonds, and because of statutory limits
on how much property tax may go toward debt service per year,
Cate said. A 2000  law  limits taxes for debt service to $30 per
year per $100,000 in property value.  The Poway measure was reported earlier by the  Voice of San
Diego  and  blogger  Joel Thurtell.   The Oceanside Unified School District, west of Poway in San
Diego County, financed a $32.4 million sale in 2010 with
capital-appreciation bonds. District officials used the tool
because the eroding tax base left them short of revenue needed
to replace roofs, upgrade power supplies and make other
 improvements  to 20 schools, Assistant Superintendent Luis Ibarra
said. The total cost to taxpayers for payments starting in 2034
and ending in 2049 will be about $300 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The district expects that tax-base growth will allow for
annual tax rates to continue within historical ranges,” Ibarra
said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  