-- Penn State Board of Trustees Member Will Appeal NCAA Sanctions
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-08-07T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/penn-state-board-of-trustees-members-to-appeal-ncaa-sanctions.html
A  Pennsylvania State University  Board
of Trustees member is to appeal sanctions imposed on the school
for its handling of child sex-abuse allegations against former
assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky.  Lawyer Paul Kelly of  Jackson Lewis LLP  sent a letter on
behalf of his client, Ryan McCombie, a 26-year U.S. Navy veteran
who joined the board last month, to the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association ’s Infractions Appeals Committee accusing it
of handing down “excessive and unreasonable” penalties last
month. Three other trustees back the appeal, ESPN reported.  The letter said the NCAA violated its own procedures by
relying on the results of a  Penn State  investigation that the
letter contends is flawed. It also said university President
Rodney Erickson acted outside his authority when he accepted the
sanctions.  NCAA spokesman Bob Williams said in an e-mail yesterday
that Penn State’s sanctions are not subject to review.  The NCAA on July 23 imposed a $60 million fine, the loss of
20 football scholarships annually for four years and a
postseason ban of the same length on the  State College ,
Pennsylvania-based school.  The national governing body for college athletics also
stripped the Penn State football program of 112 victories from
1998 through 2011, taking away the late  Joe Paterno ’s
distinction as the most successful coach in the history of
college football.  ‘Permanent Damage’  In his letter, Kelly said the sanctions “inflict permanent
damage to an entire generation of student-athletes and coaches
who were innocent of any wrongdoing during their time on campus
while placing a unwarranted blemish on an institution that, by
the NCAA’s own acknowledgment, ’has never before had NCAA major
violations.’”  Erickson acted outside of the charter and bylaws of the
university when he accepted the sanctions on the day they were
announced without consulting the board, the “final repository
of all legal responsibility and authority governing the affairs
of the university,” according to the letter.  University spokesman David La Torre declined in an e-mail
to comment on the appeal or the claim that Erickson acted
outside his authority.  Kelly’s letter questions the NCAA’s use of a report
compiled by former Federal Bureau of Investigation Director
 Louis Freeh .  Failure to Protect  Freeh’s 267-page report, released two weeks before the NCAA
revealed its sanctions, concluded that university officials,
including Paterno, failed to protect children from sexual abuse
by Sandusky by not reporting him to the police and by continuing
to grant him access to the on-campus football building where
some of the abuse took place. The report concluded that the
board failed in its oversight duties, which Kelly denied in his
letter.  “The report failed to consider evidence or afford certain
individuals an opportunity to be heard, failed to acknowledge
the absence of important and material evidence in reaching its
findings, and reached conclusions based on assumption,
conjecture and misplaced characterization that are contrary to
the available facts and evidence,” the letter said.  The NCAA violated due process with its use of Freeh’s
report, instead of an investigation by the NCAA’s enforcement
staff or outside counsel familiar with its investigative
standards, the letter said.  NCAA President  Mark Emmert  said last month that Penn State
placed football ahead of the protection of young people, and
that it resulted in the most egregious breakdown of conduct he’s
ever seen.  Paterno’s family and the three other officials named in the
report all have denied that a cover-up took place.  Paterno Appeal  The appeal comes three days after a lawyer for the Paterno
family informed the NCAA that they were requesting both the
opportunity to appeal the sanctions in writing and an in-person
hearing with the governing body.  Paterno family lawyer Wick Sollers said in a letter to
Emmert that the NCAA acted “hastily and without any regard for
due process” when it issued the sanctions.  Paterno died of cancer in January at age 85, less than
three months after he was fired as Nittany Lions head coach, a
position he held for 46 years.  At the time of his ouster, he had 409 wins, more than any
other coach at college football’s top level. Following the
sanctions, Florida State University coach Bobby Bowden became
the career leader in college football’s top division with 377
victories.  NCAA spokesman Williams also said in an e-mail following
Sollers’ letter that the sanctions were not subject to appeal.  Sandusky, 68, an assistant coach at Penn State for 31
years, was convicted last month on 45 criminal counts tied to
the abuse of 10 boys over a 15-year period starting in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  