-- Worst Performer Petrobras Snaps Profit Streak on Currency
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-08-06T20:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/petrobras-posts-surprise-quarterly-loss-on-weak-brazil-currency.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the worst-
performing global oil company this year, unexpectedly reported
its first quarterly loss in 13 years as local  currency
depreciation  pushed up costs. Shares fell.  Petrobras had a loss of 1.35 billion reais ($666 million),
compared with a 2.94 billion-real average profit estimate in a
Bloomberg survey and a year-ago profit of 10.9 billion reais.
The real’s 9.1 percent second-quarter drop raised the cost of
equipment and services in dollars while lower output, costs
related to dry holes and fuel import losses also hurt earnings.  Petrobras  shares slumped  as much as 5.6 percent in Sao
Paulo today before paring the loss to close down 0.1 percent at
19.92 reais.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index surged 1.9 percent.  “Most of the factors that drove the negative results will
not be repeated,” Auro Rozenbaum, an analyst at Bradesco SA,
said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “If we remain
stable in most parameters, I would expect profitability of 10
billion to 12 billion reais in the coming quarters.”  The company based in  Rio de Janeiro  had its first quarterly
loss since 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
Brazil’s real fell the most among 16 major currencies.  Dry Wells  Petrobras wrote down 2.7 billion reais from 41 dry wells
dating back to 2009 that won’t be repeated in upcoming quarters,
the company said.  Imported gasoline cost 22 percent more than domestic fuel
in the quarter because the government, which controls
Petrobras’s board, fixed prices to rein in inflation, Rozenbaum
said. The gap now stands at about 15 percent after a price
increase in June, he said.  Petrobras posted a financial loss of 6.4 billion reais in
the quarter, compared with a gain of 2.9 billion reais in the
year-ago period. The weaker local currency hurts profit as the
value of the company’s dollar-denominated debt increases, Chief
Financial Officer Almir Barbassa said in a May 22 interview.  “We have a lot to do to improve results,” Chief Executive
Officer Maria das Gracas Foster told reporters today. “Reducing
whenever possible operating costs.”  Production rose 1.5 percent last year to an average 2.62
million barrels a day, the slowest rate since 2007. In the
second quarter output fell 1.1 percent from a year ago after the
shutdown of the  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s 60,000-barrel-a-day Frade field,
where Petrobras has a minority stake. Output was also curbed by
maintenance-related platform shutdowns.  Fuel Prices  The company will continue adjusting domestic fuel prices to
eliminate losses on gasoline and diesel imports, Foster said.  “Since I became president of Petrobras five months ago,
I’ve continued reiterating our commitment to parity with
international prices,” she said. “These adjustments are
necessary to finance the business plan.”  Petrobras increased prices for gasoline 7.8 percent on June
25 to reduce the discount with international prices, the first
boost since November.  “Posting a net loss, when crude  oil prices  are in the $90-
per-barrel range is problematic,” said  Gianna Bern , president
of Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc. in  Chicago .  Investment Plans  Oil for September delivery slid 66 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to $90.74 a barrel at 9:15 a.m. on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. It rallied 4.9 percent on Aug. 3, the biggest gain
since June 29. Prices are 8.2 percent lower this year.  Petrobras plans to more than double output to 5.7 million
barrels a day in 2020. The company is investing $236.5 billion
over five years to build refineries, develop deepwater fields
and ramp up output at Lula, the largest discovery in Brazil’s
history. The company is developing fields in waters as deep as
2,800 meters that are trapped under a layer of salt.  “I’m confident in the recovery and the strength of the
company,” Foster said today. “We’re recovering efficiency and
we’re going to increase production in the fourth quarter.”  Petrobras has lost 13 percent for investors this year in
U.S. dollar terms, the worst performance by a global  oil company 
with a market value of more than $50 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  