-- Phelps Seeks Competitive Outlet After Bowing Out on Olympic High
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h ,   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   L o u i s e   B e a l e
-- 2012-08-06T02:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/phelps-seeks-competitive-outlet-after-bowing-out-on-olympic-high.html
After ending his swimming career as
the most successful Olympian,  Michael Phelps ’s next challenge is
finding an outlet for the competitive drive that reaped a record
22 medals.  Phelps, who made his Olympics debut as a 15-year-old in
Sydney, bowed out by winning an unprecedented 18th gold medal
two days ago in the 400-meter medley relay, the final swimming
event of the  London  games, where he secured six medals in total.  “The excitement of standing behind the blocks, looking
down and getting ready for a race, that’s something I’ll
definitely miss,” Phelps, 27, said in an interview yesterday
with Bloomberg Television. “I am sure I’ll find that
competitiveness in some other thing.”  While Phelps will leave a legacy for his fellow swimmers,
his retirement will create a hole that may take some time to
fill, according to teammates.  “He’ll leave a void,” three-time Olympic champion Natalie Coughlin, 29, said in an interview. “It definitely will be
filled up, but not in the same way.”  Phelps, who secured a record eight gold medals at the
Beijing games four years ago after winning six golds in  Athens ,
has had an “insane” impact on the sport, said Coughlin, who
won a bronze medal in London as a member of the U.S. women’s
400-meter freestyle relay team.  ‘Trickle-Down’  “The media attention and the sponsor levels for USA
Swimming and for all of us, there is definitely a trickle-down
from the craziness of Michael Phelps,” she said.  Having an athlete of Phelps’s caliber on a team builds
confidence, said Ricky Berens, who won gold alongside Phelps
last week in the 800-meter freestyle relay.  “He is the greatest Olympian ever, the greatest swimmer
ever and to have him on your team is just great,” Berens, 24,
said in an interview. “Michael Phelps is leaving a huge legacy.
I have a feeling it will take a while for that to be repeated.”  Phelps said Chad Le Clos of  South Africa  has the potential
to become swimming’s next male star.  The 20-year-old broke down in tears after taking Phelps’s
200-meter butterfly title in London. He said the American was
his idol and simply being able to race against him in a final
was once the height of his ambition. Phelps showed Le Clos what
it takes to become a multiple champion three days later after
coming from as far back as seventh to win the 100-meter
butterfly, pushing Le Clos into silver.  ‘Goal-oriented Kid’  “Chad can swim any distance and pretty much any stroke,”
Phelps said yesterday. “He’s a very talented, goal-oriented kid
and when he puts his mind to something, he goes out and does it.
He’s definitely up there.”  The sport’s biggest rising star may be another American.  Missy Franklin, a 17-year-old high school senior from
 Colorado , ended the London swimming competition with four gold
medals, the most by a female. Determined to go to college in the
U.S., she’s shunned offers from sponsors that analysts including
Bob Dorfman, the executive creative director at San Francisco-
based Baker Street Advertising, said could have made her a
millionaire overnight.  “She was ready and stepped up, and she showed the world
what she’s made of,” Phelps said.  While swimming will miss him, Phelps said he’s looking
forward to “no longer staring at a black line” during training
and not having to eat the same pizza and pasta every day for
lunch and dinner.  “I’ve had a great career, and it couldn’t have turned out
any better,” Phelps said. “To set a goal, and go out and
achieve it is pretty special.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the Olympic Park at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ; 
Tariq Panja at the Olympic Park at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  