-- At Least 15 Killed as Manila Suffers Worst Flood in Three Years
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o ,   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-08-07T16:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/philippines-shuts-financial-markets-offices-after-flooding.html
At least 15 people were killed as
floodwaters swept across the main Philippine island of  Luzon ,
paralyzing Manila and forcing 130,000 to flee their homes.  Floods caused by torrential rains spread across about 50
percent of metro Manila, an area half the size of  Los Angeles ,
Jean Navarez from the state weather bureau said yesterday. Civil
defense chief Benito Ramos said the storm may cause as much
damage as  Typhoon Ketsana , which killed more than 400 people
when it swamped Manila and parts of Luzon in 2009.  “It looks like water world,” Ramos said during a
televised media briefing in Manila. “This is unusual. There is
no typhoon but this is causing so much trouble.”  The deluge crippled transport links in the capital, forcing
the closure of schools, offices and financial markets. The
government is monitoring districts threatened by landslides
after being criticized for a slow response to previous natural
disasters in the country, which is regularly battered by
cyclones that form over the  Pacific Ocean .  “They shouldn’t just respond to crises, they should
prepare for them,”  Ramon Casiple , executive director of the
Institute for Political and Electoral Reform in Manila said by
phone. While President  Benigno Aquino ’s administration bought
Doppler radar and enhanced forecasting, little improvement has
been made to infrastructure, Casiple said.  Swollen Rivers  Three people drowned in Bulacan, north of Manila,
Superintendent Noli Pacheco said yesterday. In Batangas, south
of the capital, two children drowned while trying to cross a
swollen river, provincial police spokeswoman Aleli Buaquen said.
A landslide in Quezon City killed nine people, the government’s
disaster risk reduction agency said, and a body was found along
the Bued river in Pangasinan, north of Manila, according to a
report from the regional police office.  Rain intensified as night fell, with the weather bureau
recording 30 millimeters to 40 millimeters per hour in some parts
of metro  Manila .  Floodwaters submerged Barangay Tumana in Marikina and some
of the town’s 25,000 residents were stranded on rooftops,
Marikina Congressman Miro Quimbo said by phone. Landslides may
threaten districts north of Manila, including Antipolo City in
Rizal, Environment Secretary Ramon Paje told ABS-CBN.  The rain will subside in the capital and nearby provinces
today as Typhoon Haikui nears  China ,  state weather forecaster
 Bernie de Leon said on dzMM radio.  Manila and Pampanga province were also rattled by an
earthquake as a  magnitude-5.3  temblor struck Occidental Mindoro
province at 1:03 p.m., the local volcanology institute said. In
metro Manila, almost 130,000 people fled their homes, said
Susana Cruz, a member of the civil defense office.  Roads Cut  At least 15 main roads in Manila weren’t passable to all
vehicles, Public Works Secretary Rogelio Singson said in a
televised briefing. Flooding near Laguna Lake may take as long
as two months to subside, he said.  Malls operated by  SM Prime Holdings Inc. (SMPH)  are open wherever
possible to provide people with necessities or shelter, the
company said in a statement.  Philippine Long Distance Telephone
Co. (TEL)  and  Globe Telecom Inc. (GLO)  canceled briefings on their second-
quarter results yesterday. The government’s statistics office
also postponed the July inflation report until tomorrow.  Philippine Airlines Inc. will airlift high-value relief
goods for free from provinces to the capital, the company said
in an e-mailed statement late yesterday.  The damage caused by typhoons and other disasters in 2011
reached 59.2 billion pesos ($1.42 billion), Economic Planning
Secretary Arsenio Balisacan told lawmakers Aug. 6.  Agriculture Threatened  “Agriculture will take a hit, especially if the storm
worsens and damage spreads to the rice-growing areas,” said
Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “We
could see inflation head higher in the third quarter. The
central bank will be mindful of loosening in September.”  The central bank last month cut  interest rates  a third time
this year to a record low, as easing inflation gives policy
makers scope to spur economic growth that led  Southeast Asia  at
6.4 percent in the first quarter.  Standard & Poor’s  last month
raised the country’s debt rating to BB+, one level below
investment grade, citing improved prospects for economic growth.  The deluge comes after tropical storm Saola killed 53
people and damaged farms and infrastructure last month,
according to the disaster risk agency’s  website .  In December, Aquino ordered a probe of the government’s
response to Tropical Storm Washi, the most lethal tropical storm
to hit the country since Typhoon Ketsana.  “This could be as bad as Ketsana if the floods persist,”
Ramos said. “Right now, it’s a long way from that level.”  Urban Planning  The government must start with urban planning as a long-
term solution to flooding in Manila, said Segundo Romero, a
program director at the Ateneo de Manila University’s School of
Government. “A number of people still live along rivers and
under bridges, and we cannot stop them from living in these
areas until we offer them alternatives,” he said by phone.  Military trucks and rubber boats were used to rescue
residents in heavily flooded areas, Ramos said. The government
has almost 6 billion pesos in funds available for relief and
reconstruction, Budget Secretary Butch Abad said in a statement.  “We should maximize the efforts of distributing these
resources,” Aquino said in a televised briefing. Some
government resources in areas not affected by the monsoon should
be shifted to the stricken areas, he said.  The U.S. will provide $100,000 to support relief efforts,
its embassy in Manila said in an e-mailed statement.  Government Warnings  The government has improved forecasting using new
equipment, and local governments appear to be more dedicated in
rescue efforts, Romero said. “People seem to have more
confidence in warnings issued by the government as a result,”
he said.  Accumulated rainfall yesterday reached 472 millimeters in 
22 hours, surpassing the 455 millimeters recorded in 24 hours
during Ketsana, said Mahar Lagmay, director of the government’s flood
forecasting effort, dubbed  Project Noah .  “This is one of the worst in recent history,” Mario
Palafox, a weather bureau forecaster, said by phone. “It’s been
raining for more than nine days straight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  