-- Philippines Speeds Up Birth-Control Bill Opposed by Church
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-08-06T12:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/philippines-speeds-up-birth-control-bill-opposed-by-church-1-.html
Philippine lawmakers today voted to
speed up legislation that will give poor families access to free
contraceptives, marking a victory for President  Benigno Aquino 
over the country’s influential Catholic Church.  The 284-member  House of Representatives  agreed a day ahead
of schedule to end a debate on the bill that has languished in
congress for 14 years, allowing amendments to be considered next
week. Aquino earlier met some of the chamber’s legislators over
lunch, House Majority Leader Neptali Gonzales told reporters in
 Manila .  “Even though it’s as slow as a tortoise, the bill is
moving forward,” said Gonzales. “It has never gone this far.”  The legislation, which consolidates six previous versions,
seeks to provide universal access to birth control in an effort
to rein in population growth that is twice the Asian average.
Aquino, who has said he’s ready to be excommunicated over the
bill, is confident Congress will pass the measure, according to
his spokesman, Ricky Carandang.  “Today’s vote was a precursor of what the eventual vote
should be,” said Carlos Celdran, a  birth-control  proponent who
was jailed for a day after protesting at a 2010 meeting of
bishops in Manila’s cathedral. “The previous administrations
never really supported it. Now that it’s a priority, I’m pretty
confident it will be passed,” he said in a telephone interview.  Legislative Process  Lower house lawmakers will be able to vote on the second
and final reading of the bill once amendments have been
introduced, Gonzales said. If the proposals are approved, the
Senate must ratify a similar bill that has to be reconciled with
the House version. Only then can Aquino sign the bill into law.
In today’s vote, 231 congressmen participated.  Aquino met with some lawmakers at noon today and persuaded
them to address health and education issues caused by unbridled
 population growth , Congressman Edcel Lagman, one of the bill’s
authors, said in an e-mailed statement before the vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  