-- Pimco Stock Push Stumbles as Gross Says Equity Cult Dead
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-08-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/pimco-stock-push-stumbles-as-gross-says-equity-cult-dead.html
When  Bill Gross  started Pimco’s most
recent effort to expand into stocks three years ago, he vowed
not to repeat the mistake he made in the 1980s, when his bond
traders overwhelmed a handful of equity managers at strategy
meetings, eventually prompting them to quit.  Last week, the manager of the world’s largest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California ,
compared long-term returns from equities to a “ Ponzi scheme ”
and said returns of 6.6 percent above inflation, known as the
Siegel Constant, won’t be seen again. “The cult of equity is
dead,” Gross, 68, said in an Aug. 2 interview with  Betty Liu  on
Bloomberg Television.  “I can imagine the equity managers cringed the same way
corporate-credit managers cringed when he said earlier in the
decade he wouldn’t buy a corporate bond at any price,” said
Bill Powers, who worked at Pimco from 1991 until 2010 and was a
member of its investment and executive committees. “Bill will
always speak his mind about value in the markets.”  The dismissal of a long-held belief among stock pickers
highlights the challenge Pimco faces in building an equities
business while aligning its managers with an economic philosophy
outlined by bond king Gross that predicts diminished returns
across asset classes. Since starting its first equity strategy
in 2010, Pimco has gathered $3.2 billion in the four main stock
funds, less than 1 percent of the firm’s $1.8 trillion, held
back by investor aversion to equity funds and subpar
performance. The firm’s four main stock funds are trailing a
majority of rivals this year.  ‘Invest Globally’  Neel Kashkari, the former head of the U.S. government’s
Troubled Asset Relief Program who was hired in December 2009 and
oversees Pimco’s global equities, said Gross’s comments are
consistent with Pimco’s outlook for stocks in a “new normal”
environment of below-average economic growth.  “This makes it even more important to invest globally and
actively select the companies best-positioned to deliver
attractive returns,” Kashkari, 39, said in an e-mail.  Pimco’s first two equity strategies, EqS  Pathfinder Fund (PATHX) 
and EqS Emerging Markets Fund, account for about $2.6 billion of
the firm’s stock assets. Neither is beating its benchmark index
in 2012, and both lagged behind at least 62 percent of peers as
of Aug. 2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  EqS Emerging Markets Fund, which began in March 2011, and
Pimco’s third equity strategy, EqS Dividend Fund, which started
in December, have attracted less than $900 million in combined
assets. Gross’s  Total Return Exchange-Traded Fund (BOND) , an ETF
variation on his flagship fixed-income mutual fund, has soared
to $2.4 billion in assets since it was started five months ago.  First Experiment  Pimco first experimented with stocks in the mid-1980s, a
foray that was short-lived when the equity managers quit after
about two years. Lessons from that time, when bond traders would
shoot down equity managers’ bullish arguments for stocks during
strategy meetings, led Gross to try to give the equities team
more freedom, he told Bloomberg Markets magazine in its August
2010 issue.  “Those sessions basically said, ‘Hey, we’re a bond shop.
This is what we’re going to do. It’s the party line,’” Gross
said in the 2010 interview. “If I’ve been a problem, then I can
be the solution in terms of allowing equity investments to grow
and prosper.”  Another effort was set up in 1999 by Pimco’s then-parent
company, which created an equity unit separate from the bond
business to take advantage of the Pimco name. Five years later
the unit was one of several fund companies accused by the
Securities and Exchange Commission of allowing a hedge fund to
engage in market timing, a practice of making short-term trades
to exploit market inefficiencies, and was dissolved after paying
fines and repayments to settle the lawsuits. It didn’t admit or
deny wrongdoing.  ‘Stepchild’ Funds  Pimco’s latest stock effort came as Gross anticipated an
end to the 30-year bond rally, which helped fuel Pimco’s growth
since Gross co-founded the firm in 1971. The prediction was
undermined as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis sent investors to
the perceived safety of bonds and out of stocks. Stock funds
have seen client withdrawals in every year since 2008.  Investors have pulled about $197 billion from stock funds
since the start of 2010 through this June, according to data
from the  Investment Company Institute , a trade group based in
 Washington .  “No one should be surprised that Pimco equity funds are a
stepchild,” said Joshua Brown, vice president of investment for
New York-based Fusion Analytics Investment Partners LLC, which
has part of its $300 million under management in Pimco bond
funds. “What they have against them is distaste for open-end
mutual funds, dislike for equities and the fact that it’s a bond
shop in everyone’s mind.”  Gross’s Apology  Gross’s forecast also prompted an ill-timed move out of
U.S. Treasuries last year, resulting in the worst performance
for his $263 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  relative to peers based
on records going back to 1995. Gross, who apologized to clients
for the underperformance in a letter calling 2011 a “stinker,”
rebounded this year to beat 98 percent of rivals. The fund has
also outperformed 98 percent of peers over five years.  Pimco has added smart stock pickers who will benefit from
the firm’s resources and be compatible with its macroeconomic
view of a larger global role for developing nations, said
Kashkari, who also worked as an investment banker at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. The firm, which manages $1.82 trillion in
assets, has hired about 50 people for its equity strategies,
which are all globally focused.  Franklin Team  Anne Gudefin and  Charles Lahr , former  Franklin Resources
Inc. (BEN)  managers, were brought in to oversee the first stock fund,
EqS Pathfinder. The $2.13 billion fund’s managers follow a deep-
value strategy of picking stocks they consider to be cheaper
than they’re worth. In the 12 months through Aug. 2, it declined
0.2 percent, putting it  ahead  of 66 percent of similarly managed
funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This year the
fund returned 4.1 percent, trailing 62 percent of peers.  The Pathfinder fund follows a more conservative strategy
and tends to hold more cash so it hasn’t benefited as much from
this year’s stock rally, said Karin Anderson, a senior mutual-
fund analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The MSCI ACWI Index of global
stocks is up 6.2 percent and the U.S. benchmark Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has risen 11 percent this year through Aug. 3.  Gross’s Total Return Fund returned 7.6 percent this year
through Aug. 2 and the ETF version gained about 8.3 percent
since it started trading in March. Pimco’s bond funds on average
outperformed 59 percent of peers this year through June 30,
according to data compiled by Chicago-based Morningstar.  Downswing Protection  Masha Gordon, who joined Pimco from Goldman Sachs, manages
the $519 million Emerging Markets Fund, which fell 22 percent in
the 12 months ended Aug. 2, putting it behind 90 percent of
peers. The fund declined 0.5 percent this year, trailing 89
percent of rivals. The fund uses tail-risk hedging to protect
investors from losses during extreme  volatility .  “In equities, we want to deliver outperformance over the
three-to-five-year period,” Kashkari said. “The common element
is protection, so the funds may give up some upside to protect
during the downswings.”  Gross, in an August investment outlook published on Pimco’s
website, said the 6.6 percent real return that stocks produced
annually over the past century were the result of a flaw much
like that of a Ponzi scheme. In Ponzi schemes, named after 1920s
swindler Charles Ponzi, money from newer investors is typically
used to pay earlier participants.  If stocks returned almost twice as much as the 3.5 percent
annual economic growth over the period, that implies that
investors participated disproportionately in the wealth that was
being created, at the expense of workers and government, who saw
real wages and  tax revenue  shrink in proportion.  Debt Reduction  With governments forced to reduce their debt, the decline
in real wage growth eventually reaching an end and GDP growth
slowing, the return rates of stocks will suffer, Gross said. So
will returns on bonds, for that matter, as yields on long-term
Treasuries have fallen to 2.55 percent, he said.  Pimco’s two biggest and longest-running equity funds have
been less volatile than their benchmark indexes. The  standard
deviation  of return, a measure of price swings, for Pimco EqS
Pathfinder was about 16 percent over the past year, compared
with 22 percent for the MSCI World Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco EqS  Emerging Markets  Fund had a
standard deviation of return of 25 percent, compared with 27
percent for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Pimco EqS Dividend Fund, started last December, is run by
Brad Kinkelaar and Cliff Remily, who joined from Thornburg
Investment Management. The fund, which invests in dividend-
paying stocks globally, returned 6.2 percent this year through
Aug. 2, trailing 72 percent of rivals.  More Time  The firm opened a fourth equity strategy in April, Pimco
EqS Long/Short Fund, which lets clients participate in long-term
stock ownership while seeking to limit losses when markets turn
bearish by holding cash or selectively betting against
securities. The strategy is run by Geoffrey Johnson, who joined
Pimco in April from Catamount Capital Management LLC, and uses
the same investment process as a hedge fund Johnson oversaw
since 2003.  “It’s going to take more time to see what these managers
can do with these tools at their disposal,” said Anderson of
Morningstar. “It could be a hindrance if they’re constantly
trying to think about this macro view and force stocks in and
out based on it.”  Institutional Requirements  One barrier to attracting equity assets for Pimco may be
that institutional investors such as pension funds generally
require a three-year performance record before they can buy a
fund, said Fusion Analytics’ Brown.  Pimco is focusing marketing of the funds to its long-term
clients first and expects the customer base to eventually be
about 50 percent retail and 50 percent institutional like the
rest of the firm, Kashkari said.  “We are taking a measured and deliberate approach to grow
organically, hire the very best people and integrate them fully
and this is going to take seven to 10 years,” Kashkari said.
“We’re in this for the long term and will do whatever it takes
to make sure this is a viable part of the business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  