-- Pimco’s Kiesel Sees ‘Diamonds in the Rough’ in Chemicals, Gaming
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-08-06T13:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/pimco-s-kiesel-sees-diamonds-in-the-rough-in-chemicals-gaming.html
Pacific Investment Management Co. is
wagering on sectors from chemicals to airlines with ties to
regions with the best outlooks for growth as Europe’s debt
crisis and the U.S. fiscal cliff of higher taxes and spending
reductions threaten to derail the global recovery.  LyondellBasell Industries NV, the second-largest U.S.
producer of ethylene, and Weyerhaeuser Co., a U.S. lumber
producer and home builder, are among companies that should
“hold up well” if the world economy slows,  Mark Kiesel , global
head of corporate bond portfolios at the manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, wrote today on the firm’s website in a  report 
titled, “Diamonds in the Rough.” Kiesel also recommended the
debt of companies in the lodging, gaming and automobile sectors.  “A lot of the opportunities are in  emerging markets  and in
the U.S.,” Kiesel said in a telephone interview today.  The outlook for the global economy remains uncertain,
Kiesel wrote. The U.S. is facing potential fiscal cutbacks,
which would reduce spending by $607 billion in 2013. Spanish 10-
year bond  yields  rose to a euro-era record 7.751 percent July 25
on concern that European leaders won’t be able to contain the
region’s debt crisis.  Pipelines, near emerging oil-and-gas shale regions, are
benefiting from an increase in U.S. crude oil production.
Increased demand and more revenue per passenger have helped
airlines. And the hotel industry has seen an increase in all
types of rooms, not just the high-end accommodations that led an
initial recovery, he said.  Gaming, Autos  A smaller supply of cars and the increasing age of current
vehicles on the road should help some U.S. auto finance
companies, Kiesel wrote. Companies that refine chemicals such as
ethane may benefit from low natural gas liquid prices.  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , which now generates about 90 percent
of its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization costs in Asia, stands to benefit from rapid gaming-
sector growth in that region, as does  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , Kiesel
said.  “The profitability in Macau is pretty unbelievable,”
Kiesel said in the interview. “Vegas no longer matters a great
deal for these companies. What’s really driving the growth is
emerging markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 