-- Portuguese Bond Gains Eclipse Safe-Haven of Bunds: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-08-06T08:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/portuguese-bond-gains-eclipse-safe-haven-of-bunds-euro-credit.html
Portuguese bonds are leading gainers
among European sovereigns, trumping the safe-haven appeal of
German bunds even as the euro-region’s debt crisis approaches
its fourth year.  In the first seven months of 2012, Portuguese debt returned
28 percent, the most of 26 markets tracked by indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German bunds rose 4.1 percent and Spanish debt fell
5.1 percent. The yield on  Portugal ’s benchmark 10-year bond has
declined by 7 percentage points since late January.  “There is still juice left for investors,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in  New
York . “For those that are more risk tolerant, there is still
value in Portuguese bonds. At the end of the year, yields should
be lower than they are right now.”  Portugal’s progress in meeting the terms of its 78 billion-
euro ($96 billion) bailout has helped sustain bonds, even after
neighboring Spain sought aid in June, fueling contagion
concerns. Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  aims to regain
access to bond markets by September 2013, and has said he can
count on further support from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  should “external reasons” leave
Portugal cut off from investors.  Five Bailouts  The sovereign-debt crisis has forced five euro nations to
seek rescues. On June 25, Cyprus became the latest to request a
bailout since  Greece  triggered the European crisis almost three
years ago. The petition came weeks after  Spain  sought 100
billion euros to shore up its banks.  Portugal’s 10-year bond rate is at about 11 percent, while
two-year debt yields 7.4 percent, down from records of 18
percent and 22 percent respectively at the end of January. The
 difference  in yield investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year
bonds over German bunds has narrowed to 9.5 percentage points
from 16 points on Jan. 31.  Germany  sold five-year notes on Aug.
1 at an average yield of 0.31 percent, the lowest on record.  “In fixed-income portfolios, you have to ask the question
why would you invest in government bonds at the moment when
nominal and real yields are exceptionally low,”  Robert Parker ,
a senior adviser at Credit Suisse Asset Management, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “My answer to that is you can
have selective minor positions in  Europe  where bailout programs
are working, like Ireland, like Portugal.”  ‘Good Grades’  While Greece needed two elections this year to form a
government, the coalition led by Passos Coelho is cutting
spending and raising taxes with the backing of a parliamentary
majority elected a year ago. Portugal has had four successful
quarterly reviews of its bailout program.  “Portugal is doing very well in terms of reforms,”
Schnautz said. “Portugal is getting good grades with each
report. There’s still a way to go.”  The IMF projects Portugal’s  debt  will peak at about 118.5
percent of gross domestic product in 2013 and decline to less
than 80 percent of GDP by 2030. The projection assumes annual
economic growth of 2 percent and medium- and long-term borrowing
costs of 7 percent when the country regains access to markets in
2013, declining gradually to 5 percent over the next four years.  Standard & Poor’s  cited the government’s compliance with
terms of its aid program on Aug. 2 when it affirmed Portugal’s
BB long-term credit rating, the second level below investment
grade.  Bonds ‘Depressed’  While many European banks have been hobbled by losses from
 government bonds , Portuguese lenders have benefitted in recent
months.  Banco BPI SA (BPI)  of Porto, Portugal, had potential gains of
80 million euros to 90 million euros from its bond holdings,
primarily purchased in the first half.  “Portuguese government bond prices were quite depressed at
the beginning of the year,” Chief Executive Officer Fernando Ulrich said on July 25. “Now they are quite a lot better.”  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  had “potential gains” of 100
million euros on its Portuguese debt in the first half. Espirito
Santo CEO Ricardo Salgado said March 6 that the Lisbon-based
bank was “slowly” buying longer-maturity bonds. Norway’s
sovereign wealth fund said May 4 that it sold all its Irish and
Portuguese government debt.  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) , also based in Porto, will
continue to “moderately” buy local sovereign debt, Chief
Executive Officer Nuno Amado said on July 27.  Return to Market  The low volume of Portuguese bond trading may discourage
some investors from betting on a continued rally. Trading fell
to an average 15 million euros a day in June from 38 million
euros a day during the same month of last year, according to the
debt agency. Turnover of the securities averaged 93 million
euros a day in June 2010.  Portugal is “sounding out” the market as it prepares to
resume sales of medium-term notes, Joao Moreira Rato, chairman
of the country’s debt agency, said in an interview last month.  The  Portuguese government  plans to issue notes with
maturities of one to five years that are designed for specific
creditors, the IMF said in a report released July 17. The
government also may sell additional treasury bills with
maturities of more than one year in the coming months, the
Washington-based fund said.  The IGCP, as the Lisbon-based debt agency is known, sold 1
billion euros of 18-month bills on April 4, the longest maturity
auctioned since the country requested the bailout in April of
last year, at an average yield of 4.537 percent. On July 18,
Portugal sold 1.25 billion euros of 12-month bills due in July
2013 at a rate of 3.505 percent, the lowest since November 2010.
That was less than the 3.918 percent Spain paid on similar
maturity debt a day earlier.  “Despite fears of a spillover from Spain, you could see
Portuguese bonds perform well even if pressure in Spain
increases,” Commerzbank’s Schnautz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  