-- Pound Declines as Home Prices Fall Amid Weaker Economy
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-08-06T15:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/pound-declines-as-home-prices-fall-amid-weaker-economy.html
The pound fell to one-month low
against the euro after U.K. reports showing weakness in the
housing market underlined the fragility of Britain’s economy.  Sterling extended last week’s decline against the dollar as
 Rightmove Plc (RMV)  said home sellers may need to lower prices to lure
buyers, and Halifax data showed  house prices  declined last
month. U.K. government bonds rose after Lloyds Banking Group Plc
said a measure of job security dropped to a four-month low,
boosting demand for safer assets. Britain’s first double-dip
recession since the 1970s deepened in the second quarter, the
government said last month.  “The pound is trading on the defensive,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “Downside risks to the housing
market are rising because of the deteriorating outlook for the
U.K. economy.”  The pound dropped 0.4 percent to 79.47 pence per euro at
4:47 p.m. London time after falling to 79.63 pence, the weakest
level since July 6. Sterling slipped 0.1 percent to $1.5621,
following its 0.7 percent-decline last week.  Sterling is likely to depreciate about 4 percent to $1.50
in the next three-to-six months, Hardman said.  Forty-nine percent of potential home buyers said prices in
their area were above a “fair and reasonable” level,
Rightmove, the operator of the U.K.’s biggest property website,
said in a report. Only 36 percent of sellers have that view.  Market ‘Blighted’  There is a “significant price gap” between the two
groups, said  Miles Shipside , commercial director of Rightmove in
London. “Sellers need to address this valuation mismatch in
order to be successful, at a time when the U.K. housing market
continues to be blighted by low transaction levels.”  House prices fell 0.6 percent in July from June, when they
gained a revised 0.8 percent, Halifax said in a statement today.  “Weakness in the economy started to weigh on demand for
housing in the early summer,” Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income
analyst at Newedge Group in London, wrote in a note to clients.
“All in all, not an encouraging picture for housing activity in
the U.K.”  The pound has dropped 2.5 percent in the past three months
as the economy worsened, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes, which track 10 developed-nation currencies.
The dollar rose 1.2 percent, and the yen gained 3.6 percent.  Lloyds Bank said its index of job prospects rose to minus
51 in July from minus 53 in June. A measure of  job security  fell
to a four-month low of minus 19.  Gilts Gain  The benchmark 10-year  gilt yield  dropped seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 1.49 percent. The 4 percent
bond due in March 2022 gained 0.66, or 6.60 pounds per 1,000-
pound face amount, to 122.305.  The  Bank of England , which kept its  bond-purchase target  at
375 billion pounds last week, will publish new quarterly
forecasts on Aug. 8. All 16 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey say the central bank will lower its economic outlook for
this year, while all but one predict a reduction in the
projections for 2013.  Gilts have returned 3.5 percent this year, indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies showed. German bunds earned 3.3 percent and U.S.
Treasuries made 2.4 percent, the indexes showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  