-- Rato Says China Economy Recovery Could Boost Commodity Prices
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-08-06T11:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/rato-says-china-economy-recovery-could-boost-commodity-prices.html
Rodrigo Rato , a former International
Monetary Fund managing director, comments on commodity prices
and the European sovereign-debt crisis. He spoke at the Diggers
& Dealers mining conference in Kalgoorlie,  Australia , today.  On commodity prices:  “Many analysts are attributing the speed and extent of
recent commodity price falls to the negative sentiment around
the European debt issue, concerns among investors that the
weaker data emerging from  China  may be signaling a hard landing
and a stronger  U.S. dollar . However if the green shoots of
recovery in China take place, a mild recovery in prices is
likely.  ‘‘The weak  market sentiment  contrasts with the strong
figures from Chinese commodity imports, which have been on the
upside.’’  While ‘‘Chinese commodity consumers seem to be still
cautious about their business, most expect an improvement during
the second half, supported by an increase in government
infrastructure spending. However, a subdued demand outlook is
expected for metallurgical coal, since it is very exposed to
mature economies, mainly  Europe  and Japan, which account for 44
percent of total seaborne imports.’’  On the European crisis and U.S. growth:  ‘‘The instruments and reaction of the euro area authorities
have been disorganized.’’  ‘‘Fiscal austerity for the debtors, increasingly cutting
them from the markets but without a clear lender of last resort,
as the ECB is not able and, up to now, not willing to play that
role.  ‘‘The euro area is to this day the biggest source of
uncertainty to the world economy’’ and has ‘‘clear destabilizing
effects for the world economy.’’  ‘‘Growth potential in Europe and the United States has been
reduced because of the financial crisis and that’s one of the
reasons why monetary policy alone cannot bring up or sustain
growth in Europe and the U.S. More things have to be addressed,
fiscal policy and very importantly, structural reforms in
Europe.’’  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  ‘‘has been
very clear that he will do whatever is necessary, and being said
by somebody who is experienced in his capacity, Mr. Draghi, I
think it’s very important.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  