-- U.S. 10-Year Yield at Almost 1-Week High Before Note, Bond Sales
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-08-06T21:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/treasuries-snap-decline-as-monti-comments-spur-demand-for-safety.html
Treasury 10-year note yields traded
at almost a one-week high before the U.S. auctions $32 billion
in three-year debt tomorrow, the first of three sales of notes
and bonds this week totaling $72 billion.  U.S. debt  rose earlier, snapping a decline from last week,
amid speculation that central banks will take steps to stimulate
growth and as political strains in  Europe  threaten to worsen the
region’s debt crisis. Treasuries returned 6.8 percent during the
past 12 months, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes, one year after Standard & Poor’s Corp. downgraded the
U.S. Yields rose Aug. 3 after a report showed U.S. jobs growth
exceeded forecasts.  “The market gets more and more comfortable that it will
get taken down without too many problems because that’s what’s
been going on the past few months,”  Suvrat Prakash , an
interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, said in
a telephone interview, referring to this week’s auctions. “I
had a strong view that we were oversold on Friday.”  The benchmark 10-year yield was little changed at 1.57
percent at 5:00 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices, almost the highest since July 27. The 1.75
percent note maturing in May 2022 fell 1/32, or 31 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 101 21/32.  The yield fell as much as three basis points today and
touched a record 1.379 percent on July 25.  Interest Bill  The U.S. has spent about $323.1 billion on interest expense
on its $15.9 trillion of debt this fiscal year, which ends Sept.
30, compared with $412.5 billion during the same span in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Treasuries have outperformed most top-ranked sovereigns as
global investors have flocked to the nation’s debt since S&P on
Aug. 5, 2011 downgraded the U.S. to AA+ from AAA.  Stocks rose and the euro climbed as German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s government backed the  European Central Bank ’s
bond-buying plan. The  Federal Reserve  said Aug. 1 after a policy
meeting it “will provide additional accommodation as needed”
to spur growth and employment, while it refrained from expanding
monetary stimulation this month.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt
from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-called quantitative
easing, or QE, to cap borrowing costs. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  said on Aug. 1 it will pump fresh stimulus if
necessary into the weakening economic expansion to boost growth
and reduce an  unemployment rate  that’s been stuck at 8 percent
or higher for more than three years.  Fed Role  “Seems like a QE trade,” Ira Jersey, an interest-rate
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York, one of 21
primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed, said in a
telephone interview. “That’s the kind of trades that occurred
before QE the first and second time, where you get risk assets
up and a bit of a rally in Treasuries.”  The Fed bought $4.6 billion of Treasuries due from August
2020 to May 2022 today, according to the Fed Bank of New York’s
website. The purchases are part of Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
plan to contain borrowing costs by swapping short-term
Treasuries in the central bank’s holdings for longer maturities.  The 10-year Treasury yield may be capped by its 50-day
moving average currently at 1.56 percent,  according  to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield closed above the moving average
on Aug. 3 for the first time in four months.  The Treasury will sell $24 billion of 10-year notes Aug. 8
and $16 billion of 30-year bonds the next day.  Headline Trade  “On a relatively slow day, the back and forth of competing
European headlines may once again drive Treasury prices,” said
 Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We’ll probably look for supply
to create a concession.”  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-long position in two-year note futures to a record
level in the week ending July 31, according to U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 234,808 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. The previous net-long high was 221,904 contract
in the week ended May 6, 2011.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , in an interview with
 Germany ’s  Der Spiegel  magazine published yesterday, said that
disagreements within the 17-nation euro area are detracting from
the policy response to the debt crisis and undermining the
future of the European Union.  “The tensions that have accompanied the  euro zone  in the
past years are already showing signs of a psychological
dissolution of Europe,” Monti told Der Spiegel. While he backed
the ECB’s willingness to address “severe malfunctioning” in
the government-bond market, Monti said the problems “have to be
solved quickly now so that there’s no further uncertainty about
the euro zone’s ability to overcome the crisis.”  Treasury 10-year note yields will end the year at 1.88
percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  