-- Treasury Bears Submit to Fed as Bond Optimism at High
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-08-06T16:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/treasury-bears-submit-to-fed-as-bond-optimism-at-high.html
Jay Mueller , who manages $3 billion
of bonds for  Wells Capital  Management in Milwaukee, resisted
buying Treasuries for four months, anticipating the  Federal
Reserve  would drop its pledge to keep  interest rates  at a record
low through late 2014.  No more. With the economy growing at a 1.5 percent annual
pace, the odds of a recession have risen to 60 percent, making 1
percent yields on 10-year notes a possibility, he said. Wells
Capital’s parent,  Wells Fargo & Co ., boosted its Treasury
holdings 32 percent to $11.5 billion in May alone, according to
the latest data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re in a low-rate environment for a long time, longer
than I had thought,” Mueller said in a July 26 interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . “I’m finally throwing in
the towel.”  So are Pioneer Investment Management Inc., Pacific
Investment Management Co., Federated Investors Inc., Northern
Trust Global Investments and Columbia Management Investment
Advisers LLC. They are adding to holdings of Treasuries as
economic growth cools. Of the 20 firms that own the most
Treasuries, 16 bought more  U.S. government debt  during their
most-recent reporting periods, Bloomberg data show.  Yield Forecasts  While yields on 10-year Treasury notes climbed two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, last week to 1.56 percent,
they have fallen from this year’s high of 2.4 percent on March
20 and declined from about 2.6 percent a year ago. The benchmark
1.75 percent security due May 2022 declined 5/32 last week, or
$1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 22/32.  The 10-year yield declined three basis points to 1.53
percent at 12:33 p.m. in New York.  Yields will be at 1.7 percent by the end of September, down
from June’s projection of 1.88 percent, median estimates in
separate Bloomberg surveys show. The year-end forecast fell to
1.9 percent from 2.1 percent.  Treasury yields climbed last week as the Labor Department
said Aug. 3 that the economy added 163,000 jobs in July, more
than the median forecast of 100,000 in a Bloomberg News survey,
while the jobless rate rose to 8.3 percent from 8.2 percent.
Unemployment has been stuck above 8 percent for 42-straight
months.  Gross domestic product expanded at a 1.5 percent annual
rate in the second quarter after a revised 2 percent gain in the
prior three months, below the average of 2.6 percent since 1982,
the Commerce Department said on July 27. Household purchases,
which account for about 70 percent of GDP, grew at the slowest
pace in a year.  Fed Stimulus  Policy makers led by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Aug.
1 they would provide more monetary  stimulus  “as needed.” The
central bank may announce at its September meeting that it will
make $600 billion of bond purchases, evenly split between
Treasuries and  mortgages , to inject cash into the economy, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch forecasts.  “When the Fed first said it was going to keep rates low
through late 2014 I was like, ‘Oh, come on, how can you possibly
know you really want to do that?’” Wells Capital’s Mueller
said. He’s now convinced. “They probably are” going to keep
rates low that long “and maybe well beyond that,” he said.  Investors in Treasuries are the most optimistic since
November 2010, according to a survey published Aug. 1 by Stone &
McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton, New Jersey. Holders
kept the duration of their bonds at 99 percent of what benchmark
measures suggested, the most bullish since the Fed initiated its
second round of  Treasury purchases , Stone & McCarthy said.  Net Longs  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators had a  net-
long  position in 10-year note futures for the first time since
Jan. 23, and reached a record long bet in two-year note futures
for the week ending July 31, according to U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data released Aug. 3.  Speculative long positions in 10-year futures, or wagers
that prices will rise, outnumbered short positions by 2,055
contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade. Last week, traders were
net-short 77,414 contracts. Bets on higher prices for  two-year 
futures rose 22 percent to 234,808. The previous net-long high
was 221,904 contracts in the week ended May 6, 2011.  Even though the 10-year note yields less than the 2.2
percent rate of inflation  projected  by Treasury rates, investors
are seeking them for the safety of principal they offer from
global financial turmoil.  ‘Reluctant Buyers’  Investors have bid a record $3.17 for each dollar of the
$1.255 trillion in debt the U.S. government has sold this year,
Treasury data show, up from the previous all-time high of $3.04
set last year.  “Negative real returns don’t make a lot of sense, but
given the global turmoil and given liquidity, we are reluctant
buyers,” Richard Schlanger, who helps invest $20 billion in
fixed-income securities as vice president at Pioneer Investment
in Boston, said in a July 30 telephone interview.  Schlanger said he has increased Treasury purchases while
paring mortgage-backed securities from government-sponsored
enterprises such as  Fannie Mae .  It’s not a cheap bet. The  term premium , a model created by
the Fed that includes expectations for rates, growth and
 inflation , shows Treasuries are about the most expensive ever.  The gauge reached a record close of minus 1.0187 percent on
July 24, meaning investors are accepting yields below what’s
considered fair value. It averaged positive 0.8579 percent in
the decade before the start of the financial crisis in mid-2007.  ‘Too Low’  “Treasury yields are just too low,” said Scott Minerd,
chief investment officer of Guggenheim Partners LLC in Santa
Monica, California, which has more than $125 billion in assets.
“What’s been surprising is that the economy is still moving
along, despite the headwinds in the world economy. Yields will
likely rise into the year end with risk markets rallying.”  Guggenheim has stopped buying and is waiting for yields to
increase to 2-2.5 percent on the 10-year note before buying
more, he said.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pimco, held 35 percent of the $263 billion Total Return Fund in
U.S. government and Treasury debt, the company said July 11 in a
report on its website. Gross had eliminated Treasuries from the
fund in February 2011 on the expectation that rising  deficits 
would lead to higher borrowing costs.  ‘Stimulative Actions’  Central-bank policies led Federated Investors Inc. to buy
more Treasuries,  Joseph Balestrino , chief fixed-income market
strategist and a  money manager  for the Pittsburgh-based mutual
fund company that oversees $49 billion of bonds, said in a
telephone interview on Aug. 1.  The company’s Total Return Bond Fund boosted its position
in Treasuries to 10.9 percent of its $7.5 billion holdings in
June from 7.9 percent in February.  “When you look around the world now you see every monetary
authority undertaking a series of stimulative actions,”
Balestrino said. “That means every entity almost at once
realized growth was not at levels they were comfortable with. A
year ago, many of these entities were tightening, or planning on
how they would.”  The People’s Bank of China joined the European Central Bank
July 5 in cutting benchmark rates, while the  Bank of England 
increased its asset purchases to add cash to the economy. Two
weeks earlier, the Fed expanded a program lengthening the
maturity of bonds it holds in a program that traders call
Operation Twist.  ‘Most Liquid’  “We’re stuck in a very low-growth period here and U.S.
Treasuries are attractive for a number of reasons, including
they are the safest and most liquid market in the world,” Colin Robertson, managing director of fixed income in Chicago at
Northern Trust Global Investments, which manages more than $300
billion of bonds, said in an Aug. 3 telephone interview.  Northern Trust increased its Treasury holdings by $2.5
billion, or 37 percent, to $9.2 billion from April to June,
Bloomberg data show. “Ten-year rates are going to approach 1
percent in the U.S.,” Robertson said.  Falling borrowing costs are helping President  Barack Obama 
finance a fourth year of deficits above $1 trillion.  The Congressional Budget Office forecasts interest on
government debt will equal 1.4 percent of GDP, less than the 3.1
percent when Democrat  Bill Clinton  ran for re-election in 1996
and 3.2 percent when Republican  George H.W. Bush  ran in 1992.  Deficit Funding  The Obama administration said July 27 it forecasts the
 budget deficit  will be $1.21 trillion this year, down from $1.33
trillion projected in February. The U.S. faces a so-called
fiscal cliff of higher taxes and reductions in spending on
defense and other government programs that will take effect at
year-end unless Congress acts.  Congressional leaders said July 31 that they will vote in
September on a $1.047 trillion, six-month measure that would
keep the government operating after the start of the fiscal year
on Oct. 1. That would give lawmakers more time to figure out how
to avoid spending cuts and tax increases measured by the CBO at
$607 billion, or 4 percent of GDP, due to begin Jan. 1.  “A low-growth and low-employment environment continues,
and it’s hard to see that changing in a major way,” said  Zach Pandl , an interest-rate strategist in  Minneapolis  at Columbia
Management, which oversees $331 billion. Columbia increased its
position in Treasuries to $5.1 billion in May, a 9.5 percent
jump, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The Treasury market has a lot going for it and it’s not
obvious that that will change over the near term,” Pandl said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  