-- Recent Heat Waves Caused by Global Warming, Hansen Says
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-08-06T20:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/recent-heat-waves-caused-by-global-warming-hansen-says.html
The record heat wave and drought
tormenting much of the U.S. is part of a “new extreme
category” of weather that is most likely the result of global
warming, a top U.S. government climate scientist said.  Abnormal weather episodes were so rare from 1951 to 1980
that events such as the drought in  Texas  last year and heat wave
in  Russia  in 2010 can only be explained as the effects of the
increasing accumulation of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere,
according to research published today. If  carbon emissions 
continue unchecked, such events will become routine, with more
extremes common within 50 years.  “You would not have these extremes without global
warming,”  James Hansen , the top climate-change scientist at the
U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the main
author of the paper, said today in an interview.  Hansen was one of the first scientists to identify threats
from climate change, and to advocate for action to counter
carbon-dioxide emissions. He testified to Congress in 1988 that
global warming had begun, and last year was arrested during a
protest in front of the White House against the proposed
Keystone XL pipeline. He urged President  Barack Obama  to reject
the permit for the project, saying that tapping the Canadian  oil
sands  would be “game over” for the Earth’s climate.  The paper by Hansen and two co-authors was published today
in the peer-reviewed Proceedings of the  National Academy of
Sciences . It was written before record heat and drought across
the U.S. Still, Hansen said the drought and heat fits the
pattern identified in the research paper.  Record Heat  January through June in the U.S. this year was the warmest
on record, with the average temperatures 4.5 degrees higher than
the 20th-century average and 28 states from Texas and Oklahoma
to Vermont and Massachusetts posting record warmth, the  National
Weather Service  said. Oregon and  Washington  were the only states
considered near normal, the agency said.  Drought and heat struck at least six states last year, and
in Texas and Oklahoma are blamed for losses as high as $10
billion in crops, livestock and timber, according to the U.S.
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in a report.  The 2010 drought and heat wave in Russia destroyed 13
million hectares (32.1 million acres) of crops, Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  said in March 2011.  ‘Weather Anomalies’  Hansen wrote the paper on extreme weather with Makiko Sato,
also of  NASA  and the  Columbia University ’s Earth Institute, and
Reto Ruedy, of Arlington, Virginia-based Trinnovim LLC, which
provides support for U.S. agencies such as NASA.  They looked for examples of “weather anomalies,” defined
as three standard deviations away from normal based on a
statistical history. From 2006 to 2011, areas meeting the
criteria covered about 4 percent to 13 percent of the Earth.
Those types of extremes were basically nonexistent in the period
studied from 1951 to 1980, they said.  The researchers chose a period of cool weather, and if they
had picked a longer period that included the 1930s Dust Bowl and
Texas heat waves of the 1950s, would not have found such
extremes now, said John Christy, director of the Earth System
Science Center at the  University of Alabama  in Huntsville.  “Once you pick an earlier period, these extremes look less
anomalous,” Christy said in an interview.  Hansen countered that if they had compared recent years
with data for the previous 10,000 years, it would have found
similar, and maybe even stronger, results showing the effects of
 climate change .  Those three 20th century decades are “a very good period
within the range of climates that existed” in history, he said.  Even as he linked recent weather to climate change, Hansen
warned that these associations can be limited in terms of
affecting public opinion.  “The public takes the anomalies in the most recent season
as to their notion of what the climate trend has been,” he
said. If next winter is mild or cold, “they will think there
isn’t any trend” of warming, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  