-- Redwood Conquering Jumbos Targets Loans BofA Shuns
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-08-06T20:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/redwood-conquering-jumbos-targets-loans-bofa-shuns-mortgages.html
Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT) , the dominant
issuer of home-loan securities without government backing since
the financial crisis, plans to jump into the market backed by
taxpayer-supported  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac.  The  real estate investment trust  said last week it’s
seeking approval from the two companies to start using them as
bond guarantors by year-end. Redwood, a specialist in so-called
jumbo mortgages too big for those firms, has issued six of eight
non-agency securitizations of new loans since that market
revived in 2010. Government-supported programs account for about
90 percent of all new lending.  Redwood would join firms such as  PennyMac Mortgage
Investment Trust (PMT) , a rival REIT run by former Countrywide
Financial Corp. executives, which are capitalizing on a retreat
by larger lenders.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , MetLife Inc. and Ally
Financial Inc.’s Residential Capital are among those that ended
or scaled back their purchases of new mortgages to resell as
government-backed bonds in the past year.  “Many small originators will now need to find new buyers,
such as Redwood, to purchase their loans,” Chief Executive
Officer Martin S. Hughes and President Brett D. Nicholas said in
a quarterly  investor letter  posted Aug. 2 on the  Mill Valley ,
California-based company’s website.  ‘Added Bonus’  Less competition, and potentially higher margins, are “an
added bonus” as the REIT seeks to take advantage of its
burgeoning relationships with lenders and operations built for
its jumbo-loan business,  Michael McMahon , a managing director at
Redwood, said in a telephone interview.  “Why not try to be more full-service for your
correspondent sellers?” said Steven Delaney, an analyst in
Atlanta at JMP Securities LLC who has a “market outperform”
rating on Redwood. The strategy will offer fee income and offset
some of the costs from being in the jumbo market, he added.  Jumbo mortgages are larger than allowed in government-
supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for single-
family properties in some areas. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
loans have limits of $417,000 to $625,500, after an October
decrease from up to $729,750 that bolstered Redwood’s volumes.  The REIT, which was founded in 1994, buys jumbo loans from
banks and mortgage lenders to package into bonds, creating
junior-ranking, potentially higher-yielding slices it retains.
It’s also begun profiting by reselling some loans outright.  Redwood Returns  Redwood rose 1.1 percent to $13.15 at 4.15 p.m. in New
York, the highest level since August 2011. It’s returned 35
percent this year, including reinvested dividends, compared with
a 19 percent advance in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   Redwood last quarter added 17 approved loan sellers,
bringing its total to 37, including  First Republic Bank  and PHH
Mortgage Corp. It raised its year-end target by 10 to 50,
according to the letter.  The firm has issued three securitizations this year, after
two in 2011 and one in 2010, totaling $1.9 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse Group AG has teamed with Chimera Investment
Corp., another REIT, to create $1.2 billion of securities filled
mainly with jumbo loans sold off in bulk by Metlife. The insurer
said in January it would stop originating mortgages as it scales
back in banking to avoid oversight from regulators who twice
rejected its dividend plans.  Issuers sold about $1.2 trillion of  non-agency bonds ,
including securities backed by subprime loans, in each of 2005
and 2006, helping to spark the worst financial crisis since the
1930s when property markets crashed.  Government-supported programs, which have fueled issuance
of more than $900 billion of bonds this year, and demand from
banks for loans are limiting the bond markets revival.  Stabilizing Market  Redwood, whose executives said in the letter they’re
“hopeful that the stabilizing housing market will reduce
pressure on Congress to maintain the government’s current
dominant presence,” also sold $86 million of adjustable-rate
loans outside of its securitizations last quarter.  While banks are seeking jumbo loans for their portfolios,
lenders such as Bank of America are shying away from purchasing
and reselling new government-backed mortgages partly because the
business revolves around adding contracts to service, or manage,
outstanding debt.  Bank of America, which became the largest U.S. home lender
after purchasing Countrywide in 2008, last August announced a
plan to exit lending through correspondents, and dropped to the
fourth-ranked originator this year, according to newsletter
Inside Mortgage Finance.  Shying Away  Fortress Investment Group CEO Randy Nardone said on an Aug.
2 conference call that big banks are shying away from mortgage-
servicing rights. That’s because of “looming increases in
 capital requirements ” for the contracts tied to the Basel III
international accord, earnings volatility caused by swings in
the asset’s value and the “continual headline risk” created by
being in the business, he said.  Fortress, through companies the investment firm manages
including  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM) , has mainly targeted
purchases of outstanding contracts, such as those on about $370
billion of loans being sold by Ally’s Residential Capital unit,
which filed for  bankruptcy protection  in May.  Redwood would “most likely” retain servicing rights on
the Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  loans it buys and hire a separate
company to handle the actual work, McMahon said. It uses Cenlar
FSB as the so-called sub-servicer for its jumbo loans.  Higher Profitability  Lessened competition is boosting the profitability of
companies involved in making government-backed mortgages.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the top-ranked lender, recorded gains of
about 2.25 percent on mortgages it sold last quarter, up from
1.9 percent in 2011’s fourth quarter, according to comments by
Chief Financial Officer Timothy J. Sloan in  conference calls  in
April and last month. In 2007, Countrywide reported a margin on
prime loans of 0.8 percent. Margins on correspondent purchases
are typically lower than averages including direct lending.  “We are certainly cognizant of the current profitability
in the agency market, which is a function of the reduced
capacity that’s giving the remaining lenders more pricing
power,” Redwood’s McMahon said. “We would expect margins to
normalize over time, but normal margins will still provide us
with good incremental returns.”  PennyMac, a REIT headed by former Countrywide President
Stanford Kurland that initially focused on troubled loans, is
already benefiting. Its purchases from correspondents totaled
$3.4 billion last quarter, up 88 percent from the prior period.
Only $2.6 million were jumbo loans, with the rest being Fannie
Mae, Freddie Mac or Federal Housing Administration mortgages.  Top Lender  The initiative, which was started in 2010, has been “very
successful” and the firm believes it’s positioned “to become a
top 10 correspondent lender,” Kurland said on an Aug. 2
 conference call .  PennyMac reported a net gain of $18 million on the
mortgages it acquired for sale last quarter, including $16.8
million from the value of retained servicing rights, while
earning $3.2 million in interest income on the holdings,
according to a statement.  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) , the REIT run by Pine River
Capital Management LP that mainly buys home-loan securities, has
considered adding servicing rights, including new ones, CEO
Thomas Seiring said.  “We’ve done some work around it,” he said in a telephone
interview, noting the firm isn’t ready to jump in. “If it
wasn’t complicated more people would be doing it now,” he said.  While Two Harbors has moved slowly in acquiring jumbo loans
for securitizations after starting to do so last year, that
business is looking more attractive, co-Chief Investment Officer
Bill Roth said. Among other strategies that Seiring described as
“tools in our toolbox,” the REIT has accelerated its purchases
of homes to rent and later sell, buying $48 million in July to
bring its total since starting this year to about $120 million.  While Redwood has also considered such investments, the
firm sees them as “not within our core competency” and
potentially only a short-term opportunity so “it’s not
something that we’re attracted to at this time,” McMahon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban in New York at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  