-- Rice Hoard Offers World Respite as Food Costs Surge: Commodities
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-08-07T20:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/rice-hoard-offers-world-respite-as-food-costs-surge-commodities.html
At a time when droughts are driving
corn and soybeans to all-time highs, farmers are set to reap a
record rice crop and  Thailand  is building the biggest stockpile
in at least five decades, helping avoid a global food crisis.  The largest exporting nation bought 11 million metric tons
as of July, enough to supply the six biggest importers, Commerce
Ministry data show. As corn farmers from the U.S. to Ukraine
endure drought, paddy fields will yield 1.1 million tons more
milled grain, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  predicts.
Benchmark 5-percent Thai  white rice  will drop 14 percent to $480
a ton by Dec. 31, according to the median of 10 estimates from
traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Shipments of the staple for half the world will expand 2.6
percent to a record in 2012-2013, the USDA predicts. Those
exports combined with Thailand’s stockpiles, which may be cut to
clear space for the next harvest, are a buffer against grain
reserves seen at the lowest in at least five years. Cheaper rice
may contain  global food costs  the  United Nations  predicts will
rebound, ending a retreat to a 21-month low in June.  “Rice is the only bright spot which is keeping us away
from a global food crisis,” said  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior
economist at the UN’s Food & Agriculture Organization in  Rome .
“The corn situation is very worrisome, while with wheat, the
overall supply situation is still adequate.”  Chicago Board  Rough-rice futures rose 5.9 percent to $15.745 per 100
pounds on the Chicago Board of Trade this year, trailing corn’s
24 percent surge, the 30 percent rally in soybeans and wheat’s
38 percent advance to a four-year high. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities climbed 7.6 percent, while Treasuries
returned 2.4 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Thailand’s reserves expanded after Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra began a policy in October of buying from farmers at
above-market rates to boost rural incomes. Stockpiles may reach
12.1 million tons in 2012-2013, according to the USDA. The
country may need to sell some inventory before the next crop is
gathered in October and November, said  Concepcion Calpe , a
senior economist at the FAO. Thailand was the biggest shipper in
the year to December with 10.6 million tons, or 30 percent of
world trade, according to the International Grains Council.  Global production will expand 0.2 percent to 465.1 million
tons in 2012-2013, a third consecutive record, as output reaches
all-time highs in countries from  China  to Thailand to  Vietnam ,
the USDA estimates. World reserves may touch 102 million tons by
the end of the season, the most in at least five years,
according to the London-based IGC.  Grain Reserves  That compares with an 11 percent drop in corn stockpiles
and a 7.6 percent contraction in wheat inventories, the IGC said
in a report July 26. Combined grain reserves will decline 7.9
percent to 337 million tons, the lowest since at least 2009.  The dry weather that’s destroying corn, wheat and  soybean
crops  and driving prices higher may extend to rice. The monsoon
in  India , which accounts for more than 70 percent of rainfall in
the second-largest rice grower, has been 18 percent below the
50-year average since June 1, according to the  India
Meteorological Department . Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said the
country may be facing a drought that’s worse than in 1972, the
Indian Express reported, citing his comments on Aug. 4.  The shortage of rain is similar to 2002, when India’s rice
output fell 23 percent, Espirito Santo Investment Bank Research
said in a July 30 report. The government may restrict exports of
the grain as well as wheat, sugar and cotton to ensure domestic
supply, according to Espirito Santo. The USDA is predicting a
3.3 percent decline in the country’s production to 100 million
tons, and Food Minister K.V. Thomas said July 26 the government
will refrain from banning shipments of food grains for now.  Climate Prediction  It is increasingly likely that the  El Nino weather pattern ,
which can bring dry weather to parts of  Asia , will develop this
quarter, the U.S. Climate Prediction Center said July 30. That
may curb the availability of water for irrigation used in the
 Philippines  and  Indonesia . Harvests contracted in both countries
in 2009-2010, the last time El Nino occurred.  The FAO said yesterday that India’s crop will shrink this
year after the monsoon faltered even as the worldwide harvest
expands to a record, according a quarterly market analysis.
There’s a growing probability of an El Nino, the FAO said.  Higher prices for other grains may spur more rice buying,
with consumption already forecast by the USDA to increase 1.6
percent to a record next year. Slower economic growth may do
little to curb consumption, which has only retreated seven times
in the past half century. The global economy will expand 3.5
percent this year, from 3.9 percent in 2011, the  International
Monetary Fund  predicted last month.  Worst Drought  Global food-import costs will reach $1.24 trillion this
year, 5 percent below last year’s record, the FAO forecast in
May before grains rallied as the U.S. endured its worst drought
since 1956. The group’s index of 55 food items is 15 percent
below the record reached in February 2011. Surging prices
triggered more than 60 riots worldwide from 2007 to 2009, the
U.S. State Department estimates.  Thailand plans to sell stockpiles through the yearend for
export and local use, Commerce Minister Boonsong Teriyapirom
said Aug. 1. The government has spent almost 258 billion baht
($8.2 billion) on the program, the state-run Bank for
Agriculture & Agricultural Cooperatives said July 17. Boonsong
said yesterday the government plans to extend purchases for
another year and buy as much as 18 million tons of rough rice,
while also targeting exports to other countries.  While the strategy raised farmer incomes in Thailand, it
has made the grain less attractive in export markets. Thai
prices would need to drop by at least $100 a ton to compete with
Vietnam and India, said  Rakesh Singh , a New Delhi-based trader
at  Emmsons International Ltd. (EMSI)  Thai exports may gain 23 percent
to 8 million tons in 2012-2013, according to USDA data.  “We’re sitting on a ticking time bomb,” said Jac Luyendijk, the chief executive officer at Swiss Agri Trading SA,
which handles about 600,000 tons of rice a year. “If India
keeps on exporting and Thailand releases more stocks than we
anticipate, over the next three to five months we could see
prices drop below $400.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  