-- Richest Family Offices Seeing Fastest Growth as Firms Oust Banks
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2012-08-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/richest-family-offices-seeing-fastest-growth-as-firms-oust-banks.html
They call it “money camp.” Twice a
week, 6- to 11-year-old scions of wealthy families take classes
on being rich. They compete to corner  commodities markets  in
Pit, the raucous Parker Brothers card game, and take part in a
workshop called “business in a box,” examining products that
aren’t obvious  gold mines , such as the packaging on Apple Inc.’s
iPhone rather than the phone itself.  It’s all part of managing money for the wealthiest
families, says Katherine Lintz, founder of Clayton, Missouri-
based  Financial Management Partners , which runs the camp for the
children of clients. Supplying the families with good stock
picks and a wily tax strategy isn’t enough anymore. These days,
it’s about applying the human touch, she says.  Lintz, 58, is on to something. Her 22-year-old firm was No.
2 among the fastest-growing multifamily offices in the second
annual Bloomberg Markets ranking of companies that manage
affairs for dynastic clans, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports
in its September issue. The assets that FMP supervises grew 30
percent to $2.6 billion as of Dec. 31, just behind Signature, a
Norfolk, Virginia-based family office that expanded 36 percent
in 2011 to $3.6 billion.  In sheer size, the family office units of banks dominate
the ranking. Nine of the top 10 are associated with banks.  HSBC
Private Wealth Solutions , a unit of London-based  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) , is No. 1 by total assets under advisement for the second
consecutive year, with $123.6 billion as of Dec. 31, an increase
of 21 percent over 2010.  Small is Beautiful  No. 2 on the list is  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , based in
Chicago, with $90 billion, while No. 3 is  BNY Mellon Wealth
Management , a unit of  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , with $64.5
billion.  The top family office in assets per family is  1875 Finance 
of Geneva, which manages the wealth of three multigenerational
families, whose assets average $1.7 billion.  It’s easier to grow when you’re small. Even so, of the top
10 fastest-growing firms in the ranking, only one -- HSBC
Private Wealth Solutions -- was part of a big bank. The other
nine were boutiques such as FMP -- small companies that are
often willing to accept thinner profit margins to mind money,
prepare taxes, pay bills and arrange the purchase of private-jet
shares for the ultrawealthy.  “We’re getting so good at providing things that people
didn’t know they wanted,” Lintz says.  She was a financial planner at Chase Manhattan Bank, now
part of JPMorgan Chase & Co., before moving to a sports agency
called Bry & Associates, where her clients included professional
football and baseball players. Many of them stuck with her when
she started her own firm in 1990.  Pint-size Millionaires  Lintz kicked off her money camp three years ago. She hired
a retired math teacher to design the curriculum for the pint-
size millionaires -- sons and daughters of beer-brewing
executives, Internet entrepreneurs and the athletes.  Much of this care and feeding comes out of the 30 to 70
basis points against assets that the firm charges the 140
families who utilize its services. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  FMP sometimes charges extra for extraordinary services.
Lintz’s profit margins are 20 percent, well below the 40 percent
she says traditional asset managers aim to earn.  “Multifamily offices have been trying to figure out a
profitable business model for a couple of decades,” says  John Davis , chair of the Families in Business program at  Harvard
Business School , who studies the firms. “They are seeing the
limits of providing a lot of services.”  Demanding Clients  Clients can be demanding. One whose assets are overseen by
 Signature  schedules weekly meetings with its staff, founder
Susan Colpitts says. The firm manages the client’s money, buys
and sells his real estate and helps hire household staff.  “We don’t walk the dogs, but we do pay the bills and help
people with private aviation,” Colpitts says.  “The business of tax preparation and bill paying is a lousy
business,” says G. Moffett Cochran, co-founder of Silvercrest
Asset Management Group LLC, which ranked 18th, with $10.2
billion under advisement. “You can’t lever it up. We do it, but
we insist we get paid for it properly.”  Low margins and all, the business is attracting savvy
buyers. In July,  Affiliated Managers Group Inc. (AMG)  purchased a
stake in  Veritable LP , a family office firm in  Newtown Square ,
 Pennsylvania , that oversees $10.3 billion for 193 hyper-rich
families and that’s No. 17 in the ranking. AMG won’t say how
much of Veritable it bought or how much it paid.  Fund Rollups  AMG normally buys mutual funds and hedge funds, which
charge higher fees because they manage money directly. Family
offices often farm out clients’ money to professional managers.
AMG’s stakes in 27 managers generated $553.4 million for the
firm in 2011.  “I really don’t care what the margin is,” AMG CEO Sean Healey says. “A lower-margin business that is stable is
perfectly fine.”  Boutiques such as Signature and FMP are eating into a
business that the banks rely on. Their middle-class clients are
getting poorer. Median household net worth in the U.S. declined
to $77,300 in 2010, the lowest since 1992, according to a June
study by the U.S. Federal Reserve. New laws designed to prevent
a replay of the 2008 credit crisis have made trading less
lucrative too.  That makes banking for the wealthiest more attractive than
ever. To take in more family cash, many big institutions are
trying to look smaller -- and more blue-blooded. In April,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  set up a unit called Abbot Downing to court family
clans with $50 million or more.  Suspiciously Posh  The name -- which sounds suspiciously posh -- is real.
Abbot-Downing Co. designed the Concord Coach, the 19th-century
stagecoach that’s part of the Wells Fargo logo.  Mark Twain  called it a “cradle on wheels” because of the
rocking ride.  U.S. Bancorp last year rebranded its wealth-management
unit, calling it Ascent Private Capital Management. Ascent has
opened sleek offices in Minneapolis and Denver that look like
Apple Inc. stores, all glass and white walls, where wealthy
clients can take classes, hold meetings and even throw dinner
parties for as many as 50 people, with china provided.  Michael Cole , president of Ascent, says the unit will earn
pretax margins of more than 30 percent because it plans to
charge for many of its noninvestment services and also lend
money to clients and take deposits -- services independent
family offices can’t perform.  Asia’s Wealth  Even Swiss banks, which have minded family money for
centuries, are elevating their game. Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) , whose
Global Family Office is No. 6 on the Bloomberg Markets list, is
working hard to gain clients in Asia, where new dynasties are
forming at the fastest clip.  The number of millionaires in the region rose 1.6 percent
to 3.37 million last year, for the first time surpassing  North
America , which had 3.35 million, according to a report by
Capgemini and RBC Wealth Management.  In  Hong Kong , UBS dedicated the 48th floor of Two
International Finance Centre to its “ultra” clients, those with
at least $50 million in assets, says Amy Lo, head of UBS’s
ultra-high-net-worth unit in Asia. There, clients can meet with
a fixed-income or equity specialist or talk with an investment
banker about an opportunity to buy into a company preparing to
do an initial public offering, Lo says.  Boutique family offices question both the big banks’ level
of service and their motivation; they say the banks are too
eager to sell their own hedge and mutual funds to clients.  Citigroup Case  A federal judge last year ordered  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to pay two
clients $54.1 million for losses in a hedge fund that borrowed
billions of dollars to try and extract higher yields from
municipal bonds. Citi had pitched the fund to private-banking
clients as a safe alternative to conventional bonds.  Citi spokeswoman Danielle Romero-Apsilos said in an e-mail
that Citi acted appropriately at all times.  Lately, the boutiques have been emphasizing another low-
margin service: family governance. Family offices convene clan
meetings and help appoint councils whose members set an agenda
for the family, Harvard’s Davis says.  Some bank-based firms are also providing the service.
Ascent Private Capital has two experts on staff, both with
Ph.D.’s in organizational psychology, who coach families on
leadership, decision making and managing change. “We don’t just
help our clients manage wealth,” Ascent’s Cole says. “We help
them manage the impact of wealth.”  Delicate Work  This delicate work can prevent breakdowns that might land
fathers and sons, or brothers and sisters, in court, says Rick
Pitcairn, chief investment officer at Pitcairn, a Philadelphia-
based family office started by the descendants of John Pitcairn,
founder of glassmaker  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG)   Pitcairn serves the fourth and fifth generations of
Pitcairns, plus 41 other multigenerational families. Most have
from $75 million to $300 million in assets, Pitcairn says.  Unlike Signature and FMP, which serve mostly families that
are newly wealthy, Pitcairn deals with old money.  “If you are able to serve one of these complex families in
an excellent way, you have the added benefit of creating an
annuity effect by forming long-term relationships,” Pitcairn
says. “While the margins may be smaller in the beginning, the
opportunity to build and expand these relationships over time is
far greater.”  Creating long-term family relationships is part of what
Lintz’s money camps are about. She says about 30 kids had gone
through the program as of mid-July. Another 20 high school and
college kids have taken courses on budgets and taxes.  “The firms that are growing are committed to this kind of
work,” Lintz says.  The big banks, she says, had better upgrade their services
-- and maybe hire some camp directors -- or risk losing clients
to their smaller and more nimble competitors.  How We Crunched the Numbers to Find the Richest Family Offices  Our ranking of family offices is based on data compiled by
Bloomberg from information self-reported by multi-family firms.
The list was compiled through research by the Bloomberg Rankings
team, and via a survey of more than 1,000 firms worldwide, using
a database obtained from the  Portland , Oregon-based  Family
Offices Group . More than 115 firms responded to the survey.  We ranked the top 50 by assets under advisement, which
includes wealth directly managed by the family offices and funds
outsourced to money management firms.  High Net Worth  Single-family office firms were excluded. Family offices
that are part of banks were included if the bank has a unit that
offers direct and comprehensive investment and noninvestment
services to high-net-worth families. Figures for assets under
advisement include only assets managed by the family-office unit
of the bank.  Money managed for pension funds was excluded; money managed
for private foundations was included.  The ranked firms provide a variety of noninvestment
services, including organization of family meetings, financial
education, art consulting, estate planning, family governance
consulting, foundation management, business consulting and
concierge services such as property management, private travel
arrangement and shopping assistance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Effinger in Portland,  Oregon , at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 