-- Romania’s Isarescu Sees Upside Risks to Inflation Outlook
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-08-06T11:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/romania-s-isarescu-sees-upside-risks-to-inflation-outlook.html
Romanian central bank Governor Mugur Isarescu warned that inflation may accelerate beyond a central
bank forecast after political turmoil pushed the leu to a record
low and a drought may boost food prices.  The central bank kept its 2012 inflation forecast at 3.2
percent for the second time this year and at 3 percent for the
end of 2013 as it lacked enough data on crops damaged by drought
to incorporate in its outlook, Isarescu said today at a
Bucharest press conference. Inflation will remain within the
target band of between 2 percent and 4 percent, he said.  “The biggest part of the risks attached to our forecast
are upside risks, including from the weaker leu, because of the
European crisis and investors’ perception” of domestic turmoil,
Isarescu said. “We couldn’t factor in the risks stemming from
higher food and fuel prices because there are only incipient
signs and we can’t introduce uncertain elements” in the
estimate.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei left its benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged at a record-low 5.25 percent for a third
consecutive meeting on Aug. 2 as political wrangling that led to
the president’s suspension and sank the leu to a an all-time low
outweighed concern about a deepening recession.  Leu Weakness  The leu is the world’s second-worst performing currency
after the Sudanese pound, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 175 currencies. It has declined 2.7 percent against
the euro since July 2 after the Bucharest-based  Constitutional
Court  delayed until the end of the month a ruling on the results
of a July 29 referendum to impeach suspended President Traian Basescu.  The leu rebounded today from a record low reached on Aug. 3
of 4.6520 per euro and was trading at 4.5739 at 2 p.m. in
Bucharest, a gain of 1.1 percent on the day.  Romanian inflation, which had slowed to a record low by
May, accelerated for the first time in eight months in June and
will probably continue to post a temporary rise in the third
quarter because of an unfavorable statistical base effect on
food prices, Isarescu said on Aug. 2.  Slumping Demand  Weak domestic demand is also limiting price growth as the
country entered the second recession in three years in the first
quarter, he said today.  Gross domestic product growth will probably slow to 1.5
percent this year, compared with 2.5 percent in 2011, according
to  International Monetary Fund  and European Union forecasts.  The GDP forecast may be lowered to below 1.5 percent this
year as “sufficient data,” including lower agricultural
output, point to a further slowdown, Isarescu said on Aug.2.  The central bank will probably leave the main interest rate
on hold this year, the median estimate of seven economists in a
Bloomberg survey shows, as the battle continues between Basescu
and Premier Victor Ponta’s coalition before elections in
November or December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  