-- Romney Campaign Raised $101.3 Million in July
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-08-06T15:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/romney-campaign-raised-101-3-million-in-july.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  and aligned party committees raised more money than
President  Barack Obama  and Democrats for the third straight
month, according to statements by both campaigns today.  Romney and the Republicans brought in more than $101.3
million in July, while Obama and Democratic committees exceeded
$75 million.  “Once again we see that for many people, this is more than
a campaign, it is a cause,” Romney National Finance Chairman
 Spencer Zwick  and  Republican National Committee  Chairman Reince Priebus said in a joint statement.  The Romney campaign, the Republican National Committee and
their joint fundraising committee reported almost $186 million
in the bank at the end of July. The Obama campaign, which
released its monthly totals on Twitter, didn’t provide a cash-
on-hand number.  The Obama campaign said 98 percent of donations to the
candidate and aligned party committees were $250 or less last
month, compared with 94 percent reported by the Romney campaign
and the Republican Party committees. The money goes to the
candidate, the national committees and some state party
committees.  Obama’s campaign committee has raised more money than
Romney’s committee; the former Massachusetts governor’s
fundraising edge the last three months comes from the joint
committee that can take in much larger donations than the
individual campaigns.  Obama’s Flexibility  Through June 30, the Obama campaign committee alone raised
more than $307 million and Romney’s committee raised more than
$156 million. July figures are due at the  Federal Election
Commission  by Aug. 20.  With more money directly under the control of the campaign,
Obama will have the flexibility to move his spending around that
Romney won’t have, said  Michael Malbin , executive director of
the Campaign Finance Institute, a Washington-based research
group.  “You can’t make quick decisions to shift your money and
shift your ad buy with these outside groups,” Malbin said.
“They just can’t make the kind of last-minute decisions that a
campaign can. These positions are fluid in the last month.”  Romney’s campaign and Republican Party committees exceeded
the $100 million mark for the second month after raising $106
million in June and $77 million in May. By contrast, Obama and
the Democrats raised $71 million in June and $60 million in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 