-- Caribbean Men Continue Dominance of Speed Races at London Games
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h ,   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-07T00:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/russia-s-mustafina-wins-uneven-bars-gold-china-leads-standings.html
Caribbean men are dominating the
speed events on the Olympic track, with Kirani James of Grenada
taking the 400-meter gold medal and Felix Sanchez of the
 Dominican Republic  winning the 400-meter hurdles.  American Jennifer Suhr dethroned two-time champion Elena Isinbaeva of Russia in the women’s pole vault, the U.S. women’s
soccer team advanced to a gold-medal match against  Japan  and the
U.S. men’s basketball team defeated Argentina by 29 points
yesterday at the London Games.  A day after Jamaicans Usain Bolt and Yohan Blake won gold
and silver in the 100 meters, five of the six medals awarded in
the 400 and 400 hurdles went to men from Caribbean islands.  “This is not just for me, this is for my whole country,”
the 19-year-old James, who won in 43.94 seconds to become the
first non-American to break 44 seconds in the 400, told
reporters. “Everyone in Grenada will be proud.”  With six days left,  China  leads the standings with 64
medals, 31 of them gold. The U.S. is second with 29 golds among
its 63 medals. Host Britain has 40 medals, including 18 golds.  Medals will be awarded in 21 events today, including four
in track and field and the final four gymnastics competitions of
the 2012 Olympics.  Caribbean Sweep  James, fellow 19-year-old Luguelin Santos of the Dominican
Republic and 23-year-old Lalonde Gordon of  Trinidad & Tobago 
made it a Caribbean sweep in the 400.  Sanchez, 34, became the oldest Olympic 400 hurdles champion
by finishing in a season-best 47.63 seconds. He also won the
event in Athens eight years ago, in exactly the same time.
Michael Tinsley of the U.S. took the silver medal, with Puerto
Rico’s Javier Culson claiming the bronze.  “No one expected this,” Sanchez said. “A lot of people
said I should retire, but I stuck with it. They’ll all be
celebrating now.”  The 30-year-old Suhr, a silver medalist in 2008, won the
women’s pole vault with a jump of 4.75 meters (15 feet, 7
inches). Cuba’s Yarisley Silva, 25, took silver and former
gymnast Isinbaeva, 30, a Russian who has broken her own world
record 28 times and was trying to become the first woman to win
three consecutive gold medals in the same individual track and
field event, got bronze.  ‘Breathtaking’  “It’s really breathtaking,” Suhr, who is coached by her
husband, Richard, told reporters. “To have faith and to have it
all come together and to achieve what we dreamt of, it’s
amazing.”  The U.S. came from behind three times to beat  Canada  4-3
after extra time and advance to the final of the women’s soccer
tournament. Alex Morgan’s goal in the 123rd minute gave the U.S.
the victory at Old Trafford in Manchester. The Americans will
meet Japan, which defeated France 2-1 in the semifinals, for the
gold medal on Aug. 9 at Wembley Stadium in London in a rematch
of last year’s  World Cup  final.  Christine Sinclair scored all three goals for Canada, with
each giving her team the lead in the game. Megan Rapinoe had two
goals for the U.S. and  Abby Wambach  scored on a penalty kick.  The U.S has reached the final of all five Olympic women’s
soccer tournaments. It’s won three gold medals, including the
past two.  The U.S. men’s basketball team defeated Argentina 126-97 to
advance to the elimination stage of the competition with a 5-0
record.  Kevin Durant  of the  National Basketball Association ’s
Oklahoma City Thunder led the U.S. with 28 points, hitting eight
3-pointers, and  LeBron James  of the  Miami Heat  added 18 points.  The defending Olympic champions held a 60-59 halftime lead
before outscoring Argentina 42-17 in the third quarter to pull
away for the victory in London.  Manu Ginobili  of the  San Antonio
Spurs  led Argentina with 16 points.  “In the first half, they ran their offense to a tee,” U.S.
guard  Chris Paul , who had 17 points and seven assists, told
reporters. “We came out and played a much better third quarter
and second half. They made us compete.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  