-- Saints' Vilma Seeks Court Probe of Settlement Talks Leak
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-06T21:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/saints-vilma-seeks-court-probe-of-settlement-talks-leak.html
New Orleans  Saints linebacker
Jonathan Vilma, facing a full NFL season suspension for his
alleged role in a scheme to reward players for hits that
deliberately hurt opponents, asked a U.S. judge to find out who
told the media about confidential litigation settlement talks.  Vilma, who sued the 32-team  National Football League  to
overturn his punishment and is pursuing a defamation suit
against the league’s commissioner,  Roger Goodell , made the
request today to U.S. District Judge Helen G. Berrigan in New
Orleans.  ESPN, the Walt Disney Co.-owned all-sports cable TV
channel, earlier today reported the league offered to cut
Vilma’s punishment in half if he dropped his lawsuit against
Goodell. The network attributed the information to people it
didn’t identify.  “Vilma entered into settlement discussions with the NFL in
good faith,” attorneys for the linebacker said. “Vilma is well
aware of, and has absolutely complied with, his obligation to
safeguard the existence and substance of all such discussions.”  Berrigan on July 26 heard testimony from Vilma, Saints
acting Head Coach  Joe Vitt  and other players as well as argument
from attorneys over whether the NFL abided by its collective
bargaining agreement with the players’ union in determining
Vilma’s culpability and punishment.  Bounty Money  Vilma, who was captain of the Saints defense, told the
court he never paid or took bounty money for deliberately
hurting another team’s player.  “Today’s report about a settlement offer by the league to
Jonathan Vilma is completely inaccurate,”  Greg Aiello , a
spokesman for the New York-based NFL, said in an e-mailed
statement. “No such settlement offer has been made.”  Aiello said the league will “continue to respect the court
proceedings on this matter,” and declined to comment further.  The National Football League Players Association sued the
NFL on behalf of one current New Orleans player and two former
Saints who received shorter suspensions.  Sean Payton , the team’s head coach, has been suspended for
the entire season. Ex-Saints Defensive Coordinator  Gregg Williams , the alleged architect of the bounty program who is now
a member of the Saint Louis Rams organization, has been
suspended indefinitely.  The case is  Vilma v. Goodell, 12-cv-1283, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  