-- Save Political Debate. Bring Back ‘Crossfire.’
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-08-06T22:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/save-political-debate-bring-back-crossfire-.html
Cable-television shows about
politics are often blamed for polarizing Americans. To this
way of thinking, they are responsible for much of the
incivility of today’s political culture and have made it
harder for us to work together to solve our problems.  This concern seems overblown to me. While the shows
don’t help, their effect is probably small. The main
sources of polarization lie elsewhere (especially, I  would
argue , in the way that courts have put social issues at the
center of national politics).  The real problem with the cable-TV shows is that so
much of the discussion on them is dumb, one-sided or both.
(I trust that readers don’t need me to supply examples.)
Their main function seems to be to provide Team Red and
Team Blue with their daily talking points and with fresh
causes for outrage at the other side. A lot of people seem
to like this kind of thing, and it has its place in a
robust democracy.  There is a way to elevate the political debate a
little bit, though, and it’s simple: One of the cable
networks should bring back “Crossfire.” Yes, that’s the  CNN 
show that  Jon Stewart  attacked in 2004 for “hurting
America,” shortly before its 23-year run ended.  Sharpening Arguments  By the time Stewart appeared on it to promote his
book, the show had degenerated. At its height, though, it
did a good job of sharpening political arguments. And the
original format, to my mind, has never been bettered.  The show ran for half an hour and examined one
question. There were two hosts: one liberal, one
conservative, both opinion journalists rather than
operatives for a political party. In the early 1990s,
 Michael Kinsley  (now a Bloomberg View columnist) and
Patrick Buchanan did the job. There were two guests,
usually politicians or public-policy experts on each side
of the debate. There was no studio audience.  Each of these features made “Crossfire” better. The
one-subject rule made it impossible for the politicians to
make it through the show on sound bites alone. That both
hosts were journalists made for a fairer debate than the
usual practice of today’s political shows, which put
journalists up against political operatives.  Those journalists who are fair-minded, even if they
generally sympathize with one party over another, will
fault both parties when they find it appropriate. On free
trade, for example, Buchanan was at odds with most
Republicans and Kinsley with most Democrats. Robert Novak,
a later host, who died in 2009, was fiercely conservative.
He was a dove on foreign policy, though, and he prided
himself on never having been offered a job by any
administration.  The political strategists, on the other hand, will
maintain that the sun shines at night if that’s what the
message of the week demands. The debate will then feature
concessions on only one side. A reborn “Crossfire” should
sometimes invite strategists on air, but only when paired
off against each other -- and only when the day’s subject
concerns political strategy.  Balanced by Design  The actual “Crossfire” got worse when  James Carville 
and  Paul Begala  became hosts. They are both very smart men,
but they were (and are) still practicing politicos. It got
worse, as well, when it added a studio audience. Hosts and
guests alike now played to the crowd, which itself could
add nothing more intelligent to the conversation than hoots
and hollers. (Speaking of playing to the crowd: The
original “Crossfire” wouldn’t have had Stewart on, since
his humor book doesn’t lend itself to a good debate.)  So go back to the old format. Just last week, Jeffrey Bewkes, the chief executive officer of CNN’s parent
company, Time Warner Inc.,  said  he was dissatisfied with
the channel’s ratings but didn’t want to imitate  MSNBC  or
the Fox News Channel by adopting an all-but-explicit
ideological orientation.  “Crossfire” was balanced by design, and I bet there
would be an audience for it once again. Of course, I’m not
a professional TV executive. Then again, the professional
executives at CNN sank millions into “Parker Spitzer.”
Maybe it’s worth listening to someone else.  Even at its best, “Crossfire” had its critics. They
called it a “shoutfest,” which it usually wasn’t. They
faulted it for hardening our left-right division. But the
value of a show like “Crossfire” isn’t that it ends or even
reduces partisanship. It’s that it forces partisanship to
be more intelligent and honest. That’s a service we could
use now more than ever.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
senior editor at National Review. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials,
columns and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how governments should
brace for  rising sea levels  and on  Knight Capital and
computerized trading ;  Mark Buchanan  on  using Google to find
risky banks ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  anti-Semitism in Egypt ;
William Pesek on  rebuilding the tsunami zone  with
microfinance; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on the
booming business in  empirical economics ; Richard Cohen on
 whether fourth is good enough  at the Olympics; Caleb Scharf
on how  massive black holes  regulate star creation.  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  