-- Serbian Central Bank Vice Governor Markovic Steps Down
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-08-06T14:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/serbian-central-bank-vice-governor-bojan-markovic-steps-down.html
Serbian central bank Vice Governor
Bojan Markovic became the second National Bank of Serbia
official to quit over a law that cuts the bank’s autonomy, risks
European Union entry and threatens a $1.3 billion bailout.  Markovic resigned today in Belgrade after lawmakers on Aug.
4 passed a law that hands Parliament control over the central
bank and was criticized by the EU, the  World Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund . It “leads to long-term
uncertainty” and the central bank’s “professional
degradation,” he said in a letter following central bank
Governor Dejan Soskic’s departure on Aug. 2.  Serbia, which won EU candidacy status this year, has been
ruled since July 27 by a coalition led by former colleagues of
 Slobodan Milosevic , who took the country into isolation during
the Balkan wars of the 1990s. The EU, World Bank and IMF warned
against clipping central bank powers by a government that wants
to boost spending, stabilize the dinar and cut  interest rates .  “We are more concerned about the populist nature of the
new coalition government,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, an emerging-
market analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, said in a note
today before the Markovic resignation. “This has important
implications for Serbia across the board, ranging from the issue
of central bank independence, to EU accession talks and a much-
needed deal with the IMF.”  Recession Rush  Serbia is struggling to avoid a second recession in three
years after the economy contracted 0.6 percent in the second
quarter, following a 1.3 percent decline in economic activity in
the first three-month period of 2012.  The dinar, which fell to a record low last week, was
trading 0.2 percent stronger at 118.3461 to the euro at 2:46
p.m. in Belgrade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The law establishes a supervisory body to take an “active
role” in monetary decision-making and have the power to
“prevent any banks from abusive international-payment
operations” and “money laundering” activities.  “It will jeopardize the credibility of monetary policy in
 Serbia  in the long run, even if the most competent people were
in charge, because there will always be doubt that in a week an
entirely different monetary policy will be put in place,”
Markovic said in the letter read to the parliamentary speaker.
Giving in to pressure from “some business or state entities”
would “make pointless the efficiency of monetary policy and
lead to concrete, long-term cost for the Serbian state and its
people.”  IMF ‘Welcome’  Lawmakers appointed Jorgovanka Tabakovic, vice president of
the ruling Progressive Party, to the top post. Speaking to
reporters today before the 131-34 parliamentary vote confirming
her, Tabakovic said that whether an Aug. 9 rate-setting meeting
takes place as scheduled depends on how fast she takes over. She
also said the IMF “is welcome” in Serbia as the nation may
“need a loan agreement.”  “We will talk with the IMF and we must make sure that the
outcome of those talks, the measures agreed to, in no way imply
negative consequences for the people,” Branko Ruzic, a
spokesman for the Socialist Party, said in an interview.  Tabakovic and President  Tomislav Nikolic  were members of
the Serbian Radical Party between 1991 and 2008, which ruled
together with Milosevic’s Socialists and led the country through
bouts of hyper-inflation and currency devaluation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  