-- Sohu Rallies on IPO Plan as Earnings Lift ADRs: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-08-06T21:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/sohu-rallies-on-ipo-plans-as-earnings-lift-adrs-china-overnight.html
Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) ,  China ’s fifth-most
visited website, led gains in the nation’s Internet companies
traded in  New York , surging the most since October 2008 after
saying its unit is planning an initial public offering.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. rose 3.1 percent to 90.10
yesterday in New York, the most since May 29. Sohu and online
games unit  Changyou.com Ltd. (CYOU)  jumped at least 18 percent after
announcing the U.S. IPO plans of a subsidiary. Social website
operator Renren Inc. gained the most in six months.  Youku Inc. (YOKU) 
and  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO)  climbed more than 9 percent after saying
their merger will be completed by month’s end.  Changyou said yesterday that its unit 7Road.com Ltd. plans
to submit to the U.S. securities regulator a draft statement for
a possible IPO. Changyou, which is 67 percent owned by Sohu,
also announced it will pay shareholders a dividend of $3.8 for
each American depositary receipt, after its 14 percent growth in
second-quarter profit beat the average estimate of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “What drives Sohu’s stock prices is really the growth in
its games unit Changyou,” Henry Guo, an analyst at ThinkEquity
Partners LLC, said by phone yesterday from  San Francisco .
“Changyou’s IPO plan for its web games unit and dividend
payment indicate strong performance of the gaming business, and
the parent company will benefit from it.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.5 percent to $34.99
yesterday, the highest level since May 11. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index of the biggest U.S. shares advanced 0.2 percent to
1,394.23 in its second day of rally, as German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel ’s government backed the  European Central Bank ’s bond-
buying plan while corporate earnings beat forecasts.  Sohu Jumps  Sohu advanced 18 percent to $40.86 in New York, the biggest
jump since Oct. 28, 2008. Changyou surged 19 percent to $23, the
biggest gain since April 2009.  Beijing-based Sohu said yesterday second-quarter net income
was $12.8 million, compared with a $13.7 million mean estimate
of seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Its forecast for an
adjusted profit of as much as $21 million for the third quarter
also missed analysts’ projection of $26.5 million.  Changyou said yesterday second-quarter profit rose to $69.1
million from a year ago, more than the average forecast of $59.8
million of four analysts. Its guidance of at least $70 million
in adjusted profit also beat analysts’ estimate of $61 million,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed. Investors holding Changyou’s
shares by markets’ close on Aug. 17 will be entitled to the one-
time cash dividend, it said yesterday.  Beating Estimates  The purpose of seeking listing of 7Road.com is “attracting
and retaining talented employees by providing them with equity
incentives,” according to a joint statement yesterday by
Changyou and Sohu.  Ten companies in the Bloomberg gauge that have reported
earnings since the mid-July have  beaten estimates  by 15 percent
on average while sales have trailed analysts’ projections by 9.7
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Youku, based in Beijing, surged 9.8 percent to $17.98, the
biggest gain in two months. President Dele Liu said its purchase
of competitor Tudou will be completed before the end of this
month in a conference call with analysts yesterday. The merged
company is expected to have more than 300 million users each
week, he said. Shanghai-based Tudou also rose 9.8 percent to
$27.93 in New York.  Deal Value  The value of the Youku-Tudou deal had dropped 33 percent to
$615 million last week since it was announced March 12, on
concern the transaction will fall through and fail to boost
Youku’s profit. The value rebounded to $688 million yesterday as
the share prices jumped, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Youku said yesterday second-quarter net loss was $9.9
million, less than the average loss of $15.6 million predicted
by six analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Renren (RENN) , which operates a social networking website in
Beijing, jumped 12 percent to $4.20, the biggest gain since
January. The company is due to report second-quarter figures
today after U.S. markets close.  Renren’s sales rose to $42.3 million for the quarter, the
 mean forecast  of six analysts showed. That would compare with
the company’s lowest prediction of $41 million in May and sales
of $32.1 million in the previous three months.  China plans to let workers choose for as much as 30 percent
of their wages to be paid in the shares of their publicly-traded
employers, according to draft rules posted on the China
Securities Regulatory Commission’s website on Aug. 5. The stock
used to pay employees must be acquired from the secondary
market, and employees who receive shares as salaries or bonuses
would have to hold them for at least 36 months, the regulations
said.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 1 percent yesterday to
2,154.92, the steepest increase in a month, while the Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong 
advanced 1.6 percent to a one-month high of 9,812.92.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  