-- Sony Reviewed for Possible Downgrade by Moody’s on Demand
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-08-06T07:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/sony-reviewed-for-possible-downgrade-by-moody-s-on-demand.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , the Japanese electronics
maker which cut its profit-forecast, had its  credit ratings  put
on review for a possible downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service
because of weak consumer demand and a stronger yen.  Sony’s Baa1 long-term rating and Prime-2 short-term rating
may be lowered after assessing the Tokyo-based company’s ability
to restore its earnings and financial strategy, Moody’s said in
a statement today. Baa1 is the third lowest among Moody’s 10
measures of long-term investment grades and Prime-2 is the
middle of its three short-term investment scales.  The maker of Cyber-shot cameras and Bravia televisions had
its long-term rating already cut one level by Moody’s in January
and by Standard & Poor’s in the following month.  Deterioration
in the TV business led Japan’s three largest TV makers including
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Sharp Corp. to post their biggest annual
losses in the year ended March 31.  Sony’s TV and mobile-phone businesses “continue to be
plagued by structural challenges, such as the commoditization
and maturity of major products, rapid technological changes, and
intense global competition,” Moody’s said in the statement.
“Sony has not been able to deal with these issues
effectively.”  Last month, Sharp had its long-term  credit rating  put on
review for a possible downgrade at S&P, which cited weak demand
and prices for flat panel TVs. Sharp’s credit is currently rated
at BBB+, the third lowest among 10 investment scales by S&P.  Sony  shares , which have lost 35 percent of their value this
year, closed unchanged at 897 yen in Tokyo trading.  On Aug. 2,  Japan ’s biggest consumer electronics exporter,
reeling from four consecutive annual losses, cut its full-year
 profit forecast  to 20 billion yen ($255 million) in the year
ending in March from its previous projection for 30 billion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  