-- South Korea Resumes Operations at Oldest Nuclear Reactor
-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2012-08-06T04:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/south-korea-resumes-operations-at-oldest-nuclear-reactor.html
South Korea  started operating the
country’s oldest nuclear reactor today as the nation issued a
power shortage alert amid rising temperatures.  The Kori-1 reactor run by Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.
in Busan, southeast of Seoul, may be fully functional as early
as Aug. 10, the  Ministry of Knowledge Economy  said in an e-
mailed statement.  The plant was halted for inspections after Korea Hydro, a
unit of  Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP) , reported a power failure on
March 12, a month after it occurred. The company delayed the
restart to seek the support of local residents after the state-
run Nuclear Safety and Security Commission found the reactor
safe to operate, the ministry said July 4.  South Korea, which gets about a third of its electricity
from nuclear generation, issued an alert to reflect a surge in
power consumption caused by high temperatures,  Knowledge Economy 
Minister Hong Suk Woo told reporters today. The country’s idle
generation capacity has fallen to less than 3 million kilowatts,
the first time since September, when power failures occurred in
several areas in South Korea, Hong said.  The country has been experiencing heat waves in August,
with temperatures rising to as much as 38 degrees Celsius (110.4
degrees Fahrenheit) and the state-run weather agency forecasting
that the heat will continue.  Korea Hydro resumed operations yesterday at a 1,000-
megawatt reactor at its Yonggwang power plant, which halted
automatically after a malfunction on July 30, Yonhap News said
yesterday on its website, citing the state-run company.  The 587-megawatt Kori-1 unit started commercial operations
in 1978 and won a 10-year license extension starting in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shinhye Kang in  Seoul  at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  