-- Spyker Sues GM for $3 Billion Over Saab Bankruptcy
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-08-06T21:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/spyker-sues-gm-for-3-billion-over-saab-bankruptcy.html
Spyker NV (SWAN) , the Dutch owner of the
Saab brand of cars, sued General Motors Co. in the U.S. for $3
billion over claims it sought to drive the company into
bankruptcy by avoiding competition in the Chinese market.  GM’s actions had the “direct and intended objective” of
forcing Saab into bankruptcy in December, Spyker said in a
statement today. The lawsuit was filed in federal court in
 Detroit , where GM is based.  The complaint accuses GM of “interfering with a
transaction with Chinese investors that would have permitted
Saab to restructure and remain a solvent, going concern.”  Saab hasn’t built cars since last year and filed for
bankruptcy in December. Saab has been unprofitable for most of
two decades, and GM, which acquired full control of the
manufacturer in 2000, sold it in February 2010 to Spyker.  “Ever since we were forced to file for  Saab Automobile ’s
bankruptcy in December of last year, we have worked relentlessly
on the preparation for this lawsuit which seeks to compensate
Spyker and Saab for the massive damages we have incurred as a
result of GM’s unlawful actions,” Spyker Chief Executive
Officer Victor Muller said in the statement.  Complaint Reviewed  The lawsuit asks for a  jury trial , “no less than $3
billion” in compensatory damages and unspecified punitive
damages.  “We have reviewed the complaint, and it is completely
without merit,” said Dave Roman, a GM spokesman, in an e-mailed
message. “We will vigorously defend the company against these
baseless allegations.”  GM fell 19 cents to $19.85 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading. GM shares have fallen about 25 percent in
the past year.  Spyker said that Saab had been “close to reaching various
deals to secure financing or restructure the company,” from May
2001 until its bankruptcy filing in December. GM thwarted these
deals, using a provision of the 2010 agreement to acquire Saab,
Spyker said in its complaint.  “GM created the appearance of initially encouraging Saab
to enter into a deal with Chinese investors to save the company,
only later to unlawfully pull the rug out from under Saab,
driving it into bankruptcy liquidation,” Spyker lawyers said.  ‘Quash’ Financing  GM intended to “quash any financing or investment deal
that could save Saab from liquidation, because GM simply sought
to eliminate Saab from competition, particularly in the Chinese
automobile market,” Spyker said.  As part of the 2010 acquisition, Spyker said, GM granted
Saab a worldwide, royalty-free license to the U.S. automaker’s
intellectual property needed to make certain vehicle models.  This agreement contained a “significant limitation on the
license,” requiring prior written consent of GM Global
Technology Operations Inc. for manufacture and assembly of
vehicles in  China .  GM opposed the proposed deals with Chinese investors and
contended that this provision meant its prior consent was
required before they could go forward, Spyker said.  GM refused
to approve of any deal that would involve Chinese ownership or
control of GM-licensed technology, according to the Spyker
complaint.  ‘False Statements’  Spyker and Saab attempted to structure a deal with Zhejiang
Youngman Lotus Automobile Co. that wouldn’t require GM consent.
Youngman’s loan to Saab would be converted into an equity
interest only after the Swedish company stopped using GM
technology in its vehicles, Spyker said.  GM blocked this as well through “false statements that its
consent was somehow required” on the Youngman loan, Spyker
said. “On Dec. 19, 2011, having been wrongfully deprived by GM
of a means to secure further funding, Saab was forced to file
for bankruptcy liquidation.”  The case is Saab Automobile v.  General Motors Co. (GM) , 12-
13432-LPZ-MJH, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Michigan 
(Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  