-- Standard Chartered Faces N.Y. Suspension Over Iran Deals
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-08-07T07:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/standard-chartered-may-face-suspension-in-new-york.html
Standard Chartered  Plc conducted $250
billion of transactions with Iranian banks over seven years in
violation of federal money laundering laws, a  New York  regulator
said in an order warning that the firm’s U.S. unit may be
suspended from doing business in the state.  Standard Chartered earned hundreds of millions of dollars
in fees for handling transactions on behalf of Iranian
institutions that are subject to U.S. economic sanctions, New
York’s Department of Financial Services said yesterday. The
London-based bank, which generates almost 90 percent of its
 profit  and revenue in Asia,  Africa  and the  Middle East , was
ordered by the regulator to hire an independent, on-site monitor
to oversee operations in the state.  When the head of the bank’s U.S. unit warned his superiors
in  London  in 2006 that Standard Chartered’s actions could expose
it to “catastrophic reputational damage,” he received a reply
referring to U.S. employees with an obscenity, according to the
order.  “Who are you to tell us, the rest of the world, that we’re
not going to deal with Iranians?” a bank superior in London
said, according to the New York regulatory order.  Standard Chartered fell as much as 14 percent in London
trading and was down 13 percent at 1,273 pence as of 8:06 a.m.
today, heading for the biggest decline in almost four years. The
shares had risen  11 percent  this year before yesterday, making
it the third-best performing British bank stock after Lloyds
Banking Group Plc and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   ‘Strongly Rejects’  The bank said in a statement that 99.9 percent of its
transactions with  Iran  complied with U.S. Treasury regulations,
and that the total value of transactions that weren’t in
compliance was less than $14 million.  The lender said it “strongly rejects the position and
portrayal of facts” made by the state regulator, run by
Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky .  Standard Chartered “had previously reported that it is
conducting a review of its historical compliance and is
discussing that review with U.S. enforcement agencies,” the
bank said in the statement, referring to the Department of
Financial Services, the U.S. Justice Department, U.S. Treasury
Department,  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and New York
 District Attorney .  The lender said it “waived its attorney-client and work
product privileges to ensure that all the U.S. agencies would
receive all relevant information.”  U.S. Penalties  The loss of its banking license in New York would have a
big impact on Standard Chartered’s ability to process dollar
payments, said Royal Bank of Canada analysts including Patrick
Lee in London, who has an outperform rating on the stock.  “These are very serious penalties,” Lee said in a report
to clients today. “Standard Chartered’s U.S. headquarters are
in New York, so a revocation of its license would have
potentially major implications on its ability to conduct
business in the U.S. Similarly, its U.S. dollar clearing
operations, the seventh-largest in the world, according to
Standard Chartered, would potentially impact its core business
trade finance business model.”  The accusations against Standard Chartered are the latest
in a series of alleged regulatory transgressions by the New York
offices of British banks.  In August 2010, Barclays Plc agreed to pay $298 million to
settle claims it violated trade laws by facilitating
transactions involving banks from countries under U.S. sanctions
including Cuba, Iran, Libya and Sudan.  Concealed Transactions  In 2009, a unit of London-based Lloyds accused of allowing
Iran illegal access to the U.S. financial system agreed to pay
$350 million to settle an investigation by Manhattan District
Attorney Robert Morgenthau.  HSBC, also based on London, last month made a $700 million
provision for U.S. fines after a Senate committee found the bank
gave terrorists, drug cartels and criminals access to the U.S.
financial system. That sum may increase, according to Chief
Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver .  Senate  investigators said HSBC concealed transactions that
bypassed U.S. sanctions against Iran.  “It really seems as if they are perfectly prepared to
flout whatever sanctions, rules and laws anybody tries to impose
on them,” said Sherrill Shaffer, a former senior economist for
the New York Fed who’s now a banking professor at the  University
of Wyoming  in Laramie. “It starts to convey a picture that
London-based banks have decided that they’re not going to pay
attention to U.S. sanctions with regard to their U.S.
operations.”  Iran Office  Standard Chartered handled transactions involving Iranian
entities such as the  Central Bank  of Iran, Bank Saderat and Bank
Melli, according to the regulator’s order. Lawsky’s agency is
also investigating similar transactions between Standard
Chartered and entities in other U.S.-sanctioned countries,
including Libya, Myanmar and Sudan, according to the filing.  The scandal may cost the bank as much as $5.5 billion in
fines, lost revenue and reduction in share price, said Cormac Leech, an analyst at London-based Liberum Capital Ltd. who has a
buy rating on the stock.  Standard Chartered opened its Iran office in 1993. Ten
years later, the lender said “cross-border trade flows with
markets like Turkey, Afghanistan, Iraq and Iran appear to be
growing and offer potential to us.”  The bank stopped all new business in Iran in May 2007 and
pulled out completely in May 2012.  Wire Transfers  Wire transfers involving Iranian banks are at the heart of
Standard Chartered’s alleged misconduct. From 2001 to 2007,
according to the order, the bank executed 60,000 wire transfers
involving $250 billion through its New York branch.  During this time, the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets
Control, or  OFAC , required U.S. banks to identify and filter all
dollar-clearing transactions involving financial institutions
operating in nations facing U.S. sanctions, including Iran --
even if the transactions were handled by third-party banks.  The goal, according to the Treasury, was to prevent U.S.
dollars from being used to finance terrorist organizations and
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.  Standard Chartered flouted the OFAC rules by “repairing”
wire-transfer orders involving its New York branch to remove any
reference to the involvement of Iranian banks, according to the
New York filing.  ‘Rogue Institution’  The alleged conduct occurred over seven years, until OFAC
revoked authorization for such third-party transfers in 2008,
the state said. The lender continued to hide its actions even
after the transfers stopped, according to the regulator, leading
to the allegation that it hid the conduct from bank supervisors
for almost a decade.  The New York agency alleged that Standard Chartered
operated as a “rogue institution” that intentionally withheld
information from state and federal regulators regarding its
dealings with Iranian clients.  “We remain in close contact with both federal and state
authorities on this matter,” said  John Sullivan , a Treasury
spokesman.  The regulatory order poses a challenge to the bank’s senior
executives, said  Christopher Wheeler , a Mediobanca SpA analyst
in London.  “This is going to prove rather tricky for the management
team at Standard Chartered as they have been at the bank” for
years, he said. “This has been happening while  Peter Sands ,
Richard Meddings and  Mike Rees  have been in place.”  Management Change?  Sands was promoted to CEO in November 2006, after four
years as finance director. Meddings, who replaced Sands as
finance director, was previously director for governance for
Africa, Middle East, Pakistan, Europe and the Americas. Mike
Rees has been CEO of global banking and markets at Standard
Chartered since 2003.  “It’s too early to say who will fall on his sword as it
depends on what is found, but it really doesn’t look good,”
Wheeler said.  The announcement by Lawsky’s agency came after the bank
said last week it was conducting a review of its compliance with
sanctions rules.  “The group is conducting a review of its historical U.S.
sanctions compliance and is discussing that review with U.S.
enforcement agencies and regulators,” Standard Chartered said
on Aug. 1 as it reported first-half earnings. “The group cannot
predict when this review and these discussions will be completed
or what the outcome will be.”  ‘Surprise’  Ian Gordon , an analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  in London, said he
was surprised by the order. He has a buy  rating  on the stock.  “I am surprised we are already at this stage when the
latest disclosure stated it was an internal review and
discussion with authorities,” Gordon said in a telephone
interview.  Sands, Standard Chartered’s CEO, praised his bank’s culture
in comments to analysts last week.  “We build businesses that deliver a wider social and
economic benefit,” Sands said Aug. 1. “As a source of
competitive advantage, as the ultimate protection against risk,
our culture and values are our first and last line of defense.”  Lawsky ordered representatives of Standard Chartered to
appear before his agency Aug. 15 “to demonstrate why SCB’s
license to operate in the state of New York should not be
revoked.”  Standard Chartered’s New York operation had $40.8 billion
of  assets  at the end of March, according to the New York
regulator. By comparison, the bank had $624 billion in assets at
the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at   bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 