-- Stora Enso Price-Fix Case Revived by U.S. Appeals Court
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-08-06T18:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/stora-enso-price-fix-case-revived-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
Stora Enso North America Corp., a
former unit of the Finnish commercial printing products company,
must face an antitrust lawsuit brought by its customers, a
federal appeals court ruled, reversing a trial judge’s dismissal
of the case.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan said today that a
jury could potentially find that the company, which was sold to
Newpage Corp. in 2007, conspired to fix prices. The three-judge
panel affirmed the lower court’s decision to throw out the case
against its former Helsinki-based parent,  Stora Enso Oyj (STEAV) , for
lack of evidence.  Paper buyers alleged that executives at Stora Enso’s then-
U.S. unit and another Finnish paper maker, Helsinki-based  UPM-
Kymmene Ojy (UPM1V) , engaged in secret meetings and conspired to fix
prices in 2002 and 2003, according to the decision. Damages for
the plaintiffs were estimated to be as much as $102.5 million,
the decision said.  “We hold that the district court erred in granting summary
judgment to SENA because a jury could reasonably find that SENA
and UPM entered into an agreement to raise the price of
publication paper, and that, as implemented, this agreement
damaged plaintiffs,” U.S. Appeals Court Judge Susan L. Carney
said in the decision.  The civil case followed an earlier criminal probe by the
 Department of Justice . A jury in the criminal case acquitted
SENA of U.S. antitrust law violations in 2007, the appeals court
said.  “We are confident that a jury reviewing all of the facts
in connection with this case will conclude that there was no
agreement to fix the prices of publication paper in the United
States,” as a jury found in the criminal case, David Marx Jr.,
a lawyer for Stora Enso and its former U.S. unit, said in a
phone interview today.  Miamisburg, Ohio-based Newpage filed for  Chapter 11
bankruptcy protection  in September 2011. Its case is still
pending.  Shawn Hall , a company spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  The civil antitrust case is In re Publication Paper
Antitrust Litigation, 11-cv-101, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals (Manhattan).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stora Enso North America
Corp., 3:06-cr-00323, U.S. District Court for the District of
Connecticut. The bankruptcy case is In re NewPage Corp., 11-
12804,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  for the District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in  New York  at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  