-- Strait of Hormuz Attack Iran ‘Last Resort,’ Author Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-08-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/strait-of-hormuz-attack-iran-last-resort-author-says.html
Iran  probably would attempt to block
the  Strait of Hormuz  at the mouth of the  Persian Gulf  only as a
“last resort,” according to a Pentagon historian who’s written
a new history of America’s 33-year shadow war with the Islamic
Republic.  Iran has greatly improved its ability to disrupt shipping
through the strategic waterway, the route for a fifth of the
world’s traded oil, said historian David Crist. Still, the
Islamic Republic’s economy also relies on shipping through the
Strait, he said.  “Their prime means of exporting oil is through the
Strait,” said Crist, author of “The Twilight War: The Secret
History of America’s Thirty-Year Conflict with Iran” (Penguin
Press, 656 pages, $36), in an interview. “If they mine, it
means their oil is not coming out, either. So ultimately it
either cuts off their nose to spite their face” or it would be
an attempt to pressure the international community to resolve a
crisis.  “I’ve always viewed that the Iranians see that as an
option of last resort if all else fails,” Crist told an
audience August 1 at the International Spy Museum in  Washington .  Other U.S. officials are less sanguine, and in September
the U.S. and 20 allies will stage a minesweeping exercise in the
Persian Gulf that the U.S. Central Command said will be the
largest ever.  The International Mine Countermeasures Exercise 2012
“demonstrates the international community’s ability to work
together to ensure free and secure trade,” Marine Corps General
James Mattis, the head of the U.S. Central Command, said in a
July 17 statement.  American Fears  The American fear, said one U.S. official involved in Iran
policy, is that the U.S. and international economic sanctions
intended to pressure Iran to abandon its suspected pursuit of
nuclear weapons could instead persuade its leaders that they
have little to lose by mining the Strait, sinking a tanker, or
attacking oil facilities in Saudi Arabia or elsewhere.  U.S. and international sanctions against Iran are costing
it $133 million a day in lost sales, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Shipments from Iran have  plunged  by 1.2 million
barrels a day, or 52 percent, since the sanctions banning the
purchase, transport, financing and insuring of Iranian crude
began July 1, also according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Annualized, that would cost President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ’s
country about $48 billion in revenue, equivalent to 10 percent
of its economy.  Gasoline Prices  A second U.S. official, who also works on Iran policy, said
some White House officials worry that if Iran retaliated for the
sanctions by provoking even a brief crisis in the Gulf, that
could send gasoline prices -- already rising as the Midwest
drought drives up the cost of corn-based ethanol -- toward $5 or
more a gallon as Election Day approaches. Both U.S. officials
asked that their names not be used because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Iranian officials last year and this year repeatedly
threatened to close the Strait in retaliation for the sanctions.
Laying mines or sinking a ship in the Strait of Hormuz would
disrupt tanker traffic and also could prompt insurance companies
to raise rates on tankers, leading at least temporarily to
higher  oil prices .  “I think Iran is making these pronouncements to help drive
up oil prices and make up some of the difference for the lost
revenue caused by the sanctions,” said Crist. “It is an
interesting strategy that puts their statements in context.”  Iran, he said, has increased its reliance on mines since
its war with  Iraq  in the 1980s and engagements with the U.S.
Navy in 1987 and 1988 after U.S. vessels were damaged by mines.  Growing Inventory  Its inventory of mines, many of the type laid during the
1980s against Iraq and international shipping, has grown to more
than 5,000, Crist wrote.  “Let’s just say they have enough resources and forces to
do it if they set they mind to” attempt a disruption, Crist
said. “That’s provided that there’s no international effort to
stop it, which I think there would be,” he said.  Disrupting shipping has been on their minds for a long
time, Crist said. During a September 1987 attack on the Iran Ajr
vessel after it laid mines to disrupt shipping in the Gulf, U.S.
Navy Seals discovered a war plan to close the Strait, approved
in 1984 and called “Ghadir,” Crist writes in his book. A class
of Iranian midget submarines -- another potential threat to
shipping in the Gulf -- uses the same name, taken from Ghadir
Khumm, an Islamic holy place in modern-day  Saudi Arabia .  So far, the oil markets have ignored Iran’s history and
rhetoric. While Iran’s threats to disrupt the flow of oil
through the Persian Gulf sent crude to a three-year high in
March, increased production from Saudi Arabia, a U.S. output
boom, and the slowing global economy have brought prices down 16
percent from the highs to about the level at the start of the
year.  Falling Prices  Brent oil closed at $108.94 a barrel on Aug. 3 on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, down 1.5 percent from
Jan. 23 when European Union ministers approved a ban on the
purchase and insurance of Iranian oil. The U.S. is paying 6.2
percent less than a year ago for imported crude as domestic
fields produce the most in 13 years, driving stockpiles to all-
time highs, Energy Department data show.  Nevertheless, the Obama administration and some European
allies and  Persian Gulf states  have embarked on a Gulf military
build-up to deter any Iranian attempt to disrupt oil shipping,
production, or refining.  U.S. 5th Fleet commander Admiral Mark Fox told reporters in
February the Navy would a consider Iranian mine-laying an “act
of war,” and the Navy has doubled to eight the number of
counter-mine ships in the Persian Gulf region.  Second Carrier  The U.S. Navy also announced a new aircraft carrier
rotation last month that will keep two aircraft carrier strike
groups in the region until at least late-March. The Pentagon
previously had said the two-carrier presence would end Sept. 30.  The  United Arab Emirates  in late December signed a deal
valued at as much as $3.49 billion for the first international
sale of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s newest missile interceptor.  The Navy also is using its first high-altitude drone to
monitor Iranian military activity and vessel movements in and
around the Strait of Hormuz, according to service officials.  The unmanned aerial vehicle built by  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
of  Falls Church ,  Virginia , is providing broad coverage of the
strategic waterway from 60,000 feet, collecting and transmitting
black-and-white still images from the drone to a ground station
in  Maryland  which are re-transmitted to 5th Fleet naval vessels
in the region within minutes on average.  Mattis and Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Jonathan
Greenert have utilized a “Fast Lane” acquisition approach this
year to accelerate upgrades to the U.S. 5th Fleet, based in
 Bahrain .  It includes fielding new laser target-trackers on coastal
patrol craft; enhanced sensors for underwater vehicles; improved
protection against drone attacks for land bases; upgrades of U-2
spy planes; a new short-range missile called the Griffin, made
by Waltham, Massachusetts-based  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , and a new
underwater drone called the Seafox, which is being developed for
Lockheed Martin of Bethesda, Maryland, by a unit of Bremen,
Germany-based Atlas Elektronik GmbH., to detect and neutralize
mines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  