-- Suhr Takes Isinbaeva’s Pole Vault Crown at London Olympics
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-06T22:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/suhr-takes-isinbaeva-s-pole-vault-crown-at-london-olympics.html
Jennifer Suhr  of the U.S. outjumped
world record holder and two-time defending Olympic champion
Elena Isinbaeva to win pole vaulting gold at the London Games.  The 30-year-old American, the silver medalist in 2008, won
the women’s title with a jump of 4.75 meters (15 feet, 7
inches). Cuba’s Yarisley Silva took silver while former gymnast
Isinbaeva took bronze. All three women paraded around the
stadium waving their national flags after the event.  “It’s really breathtaking,” Suhr, who is coached by her
husband, Richard, told reporters. “It’s emotional. To have
faith and to have it all come together and to achieve what we
dreamt of, it’s amazing.”  Isinbaeva, 30, had been trying to become the first woman to
win three consecutive gold medals in the same individual track
and field event. The Russian, who set her world record of 5.06
meters three years ago in  Stockholm , is the only woman to have
cleared five meters or better. She has broken her own world mark
28 times.  Felix Sanchez captured the first gold medal of the London
games for the  Dominican Republic  by winning the 400-meter
hurdles in a season’s best 47.63 seconds. Sanchez also won the
event at the 2004 Athens Olympics, in exactly the same time as
today. At 34 years of age, he’s the oldest champion and medalist
in the event at the Olympics.  “A lot of people said I should retire, but I stuck with
it,” Sanchez told reporters.  American Michael Tinsley, 28, ran the fastest race of his
career to take silver in 47.91 seconds.  Puerto Rico ’s Javier
Culson, 28, took bronze in 48.10 seconds.  Taylor Fifth  Angelo Taylor, the 33-year-old American who was trying for
a record third gold, finished fifth, behind Britain’s world
champion David Greene.  “My heart goes out to him,” Taylor said about Sanchez.
“He worked hard all year long.”  Nadzeya Ostapchuk won the women’s shot put with a throw of
21.36 meters to clinch the first athletics gold medal for
Belarus at the London Games. Defending Olympic champion Valerie
Adams from  New Zealand  took silver, while Russia’s Evgeniia
Kolodko got the bronze. Adams, the reigning world champion, had
not lost a competition at an Olympic or world championship level
to the Belarussian since 2005.  “I’m very happy at this moment,” Ostapchuk told
reporters. “It’s my third  Olympic Games  and it’s a long way to
get to this gold medal. My coach said that I must commit all
because my opponents were very strong and they could do
something until the end.”  400 Meters  Kirani James, 19, of Grenada, took gold in the men’s 400
meters in 43.94 seconds, becoming the first non-American to
break 44 seconds in the event. The Dominican Republic’s Luguelin
Santos, also 19, took silver in 44.46 seconds and Trinidad’s
Lalonde Gordon, 23, took bronze in 44.52 seconds.  Defending champion LaShawn Merritt of the U.S., who
successfully sued to participate in the games following a doping
ban, failed to make the final after hurting his hamstring in the
heats on Aug. 4.  Russia ’s Yuliya Zaripova won the gold medal in the 3,000-
meter steeplechase in a new personal best of 9:06:72, ahead of
Habiba Ghribi of  Tunisia  in second place. Sofia Assefa of
Ethopia got bronze.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Olympic Stadium in London at   tpanja@bloomberg.net ; Danielle Rossingh at the Olympic
Stadium in London at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net : 