-- Most Swiss Stocks Advance; Richemont Gains, Roche Drops
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-08-06T15:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/swiss-stocks-pare-decline-as-richemont-rallies.html
Most  Swiss stocks  advanced, following
three weeks of gains for the Swiss Market Index, as Cie.
Financiere  Richemont (CFR)  SA rallied, outweighing a retreat by Roche
Holding AG.  Richemont surged 5.2 percent, its biggest gain since May,
after the owner of the Cartier brand forecast that fiscal first-
half profit will jump as much as 40 percent as currency shifts
increase revenue. Roche Holding AG slipped 1 percent.  Nestle SA (NESN) ,
the world’s biggest food company, lost 0.7 percent.  The  SMI (SMI)  added less than 0.1 percent at 6,463.01 at the
close in Zurich, rebounding from an earlier slide of as much as
0.5 percent. More than five stocks climbed for every four that
dropped. The benchmark measure rallied 1.6 percent last week.
The SMI has  jumped 13 percent from its 2012 low  on June 4 as
policy makers eased repayment terms for Spanish lenders and
central banks took steps to stimulate economic growth. The
broader Swiss Performance Index increased 0.2 percent today.  “We’re just seeing a consolidation after the strong market
move last week,” said Konstantin Giantiroglou, head of
investment advisory at Neue Aargauer Bank in Brugg, Switzerland.
“Yields for Italian and Spanish bonds are coming down further,
which is a very positive movement and should bolster equity
markets going forward. Defensive names like  Roche (ROG)  and Nestle are
suffering a bit amid the thawing of the market, limiting gains
for the SMI.”  Bond Yields  Spanish 10-year bonds advanced today, pushing the yield
down 11 basis points to 6.74 percent. The yield on Italian 10-
year securities slipped five basis points to 6 percent.  Greece’s government agreed to increase its efforts to
comply with its bailout terms after more than a week of meetings
with international creditors in Athens.  “The news on Greece is also a positive, even though it’s
not really a big issue today,” Giantiroglou said. “On a day
with almost no newsflow, it’s like icing on the cake.”  Representatives from the so-called troika of the European
Commission,  European Central Bank  and  International Monetary
Fund  met with Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras in Athens
yesterday. The talks will determine whether Greece continues to
receive funds from two bailouts.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government has backed ECB
President  Mario Draghi ’s proposals on bond buying to help bring
down borrowing costs in Spain and Italy.  Richemont jumped 5.2 percent to 58.95 Swiss francs after
the maker of Montblanc pens predicted that  operating profit  in
the six months through September will probably increase by 20
percent to 40 percent. The average analyst estimate compiled by
Bloomberg had called for an 18 percent gain.  Swatch, Roche  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s biggest watchmaker, climbed
2.8 percent to 397.50 francs.  Roche, the world’s largest maker of cancer drugs, slipped 1
percent to 172.80 francs.  Nestle lost 0.7 percent to 60.30 francs, for the biggest
drag on  the SMI .  Givaudan SA (GIVN) , the world’s biggest maker of flavors and
fragrances, slid 1.1 percent to 909.50 francs after Alicia Forry, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd., cut the stock to
hold from buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  