-- Assad Isolation Grows as Rebels Claim Syria PM Defected
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-08-07T07:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/syria-dismisses-prime-minister-hijab-amid-reports-of-defection.html
Syria ’s Prime Minister Riad Hijab has
defected and joined rebel forces in the highest-ranking
departure since the uprising against President Bashar al-Assad
began last year, opposition leaders said.  Hijab left the country with three other cabinet ministers,
Colonel Riad al-Asaad, commander of the Free Syrian Army, said
in interview from the Turkish-Syrian border yesterday. Syrian
Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi said officials haven’t heard
from Hijab, who was dismissed from office. Zoubi also rejected
reports that ministers defected and the state-run  Syrian Arab
News Agency  said that all ministers attended a Cabinet meeting.
The  Associated Press  reported that a Jordanian official, whose
name it withheld, confirmed that Hijab defected with his family.  “That the titular head of the Syrian government has
rejected the ongoing slaughter being carried out at Assad’s
direction only reinforces that the Assad regime is crumbling
from within,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told
reporters yesterday.  Hihab’s departure would mark the most serious blow to
President Bashar al-Assad’s government since last month, when a
bomb attack in Damascus killed key members of the military
establishment, including Assad’s brother-in-law, Assef Shawkat.  Rebel Clashes  Hijab, who was a member of the ruling Baath party, comes
from Syria’s majority Sunni community whose members make up much
of the armed opposition, while Assad is a representative of the
minority Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam. Formerly
agriculture minister, Hijab was elevated to prime minister in a
June government shakeup with which Assad sought to thwart
growing opposition by promising government reforms.  At least 199 people were killed in fighting yesterday,
including 49 in Aleppo, the opposition Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights said in an e-mail.  The Sana news agency said government troops clashed with
rebels in Damascus’ Rukn Eddine neighborhood, Aleppo, Homs,
Daraa and other areas, inflicting heavy losses.  Syrian Finance Minister Mohammad al-Jleilati said he is
committed to remaining in the government after  Al Arabiya 
reported he had been detained while preparing to leave.  “What’s been said is baseless and aims to harm Syria,”
al-Jleilati said in a telephone interview from Damascus. “I’m
now heading into a meeting of the council of ministers.”  Interim Minister  Omar Ghalawanji, deputy prime minister for services affairs
and minister of local administration, was appointed interim
prime minister, according to the Syrian Arab News Agency. It
gave no reason for Hijab’s loss of office.  The former premier has joined the opposition, said Mohammed
el-Etri, described on  Al Jazeera  as Hijab’s spokesman. The
defection had been planned for months in conjunction with the
Free Syrian Army and also involved the departure from the
country of 10 families of Hijab’s relatives, el-Etri told the
channel.  “The facade of the Syrian regime is crashing, the facade
the regime has used to give the world the impression that it is
a political and not a military regime,” Burhan Ghalioun, a
senior member of the Syrian National Congress and its former
leader, said in a phone interview from Paris. The news leaves
Syrian government “naked for the whole world to see it for what
it really is,” he added.  Prominent Defector  Brigadier General Manaf Tlas, a  Sunni Muslim  and childhood
friend of Assad, was previously the most prominent defector from
the president’s political circle. Formerly a commander in the
elite Republican Guard, Tlas is the son of ex-Defense Minister
Mustapha Tlas. Syria’s ambassador to  Iraq , Nawaf al-Fares,
joined the opposition in July.  “The defections are spreading to other sectors of the
government now, including the military, diplomats and
politicians,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai,
said in a phone interview.  The U.S.,  Turkey ,  Saudi Arabia  and other nations are trying
to help broker the creation of a broad transitional council to
prevent a bloody sectarian conflict from erupting after Assad,
according to two U.S. officials involved in Syrian policy.  The concern is that some members of the opposition, joined
by ordinary Syrians, would seek revenge against Assad’s Sunni,
Christian, and Alawite supporters, forcing them to flee or
fight. Such a dead-end conflict, both officials said, likely
would create more room for Islamic extremists to enter, and also
threaten to destabilize Jordan, Lebanon, and perhaps Iraq.  More than 10,000 people have died during the conflict,
according to UN estimates, while the opposition group Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights  puts the death toll at more than
21,000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  