-- U.K. Energy Push Draws $2.3 Billion From GDF Suez, BP Plc
-- B y   T o m   M e t c a l f
-- 2012-08-07T11:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/u-k-energy-push-draws-2-3-billion-in-investment-from-gdf-suez.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said  GDF Suez (GSZ)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  will invest more than 1.5
billion pounds ($2.3 billion) in the U.K., part of a government
effort to support the economy and lure companies to pay for
upgrading the nation’s energy infrastructure.  GDF Suez of Paris, the largest European power generator by
market value, along with London-based  Centrica Plc (CNA)  and Bayerngas
GmbH of Munich plans to develop an 18 billion-cubic-meter gas
field under the North Sea, the U.K. Department for Business,
Innovation and Skills said. It will support at least 4,000 jobs.  “The U.K. can lead the world in the energy sector,”
Osborne said in an e-mailed statement. “The government is
committed to creating an environment in which innovation can
thrive and business can grow.”  The investment was the biggest of six outlined by the
government after a conference hosted by government ministers in
London sought to firm up the U.K.’s reputation for stability in
energy policy. A dispute between Osborne and Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  last month over support for subsides for renewable power
left companies questioning the stability of government policies.  London Conference  The announcement was made at the  British Business Embassy ,
an investment conference attended by company executives
including BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley,  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  Chief Energy Adviser Wim Thomas and Andrew Gould,
chairman of  BG Group Plc. (BG/)   Dudley said he expected world energy demand to rise 40
percent by 2030, which “is the equivalent of another whole
China being formed and another whole United States. Partnerships
with academic institutions are vital to progress, and with
Britain having so many world-class university departments, it’s
no surprise that we spend about 40 percent of our R&D spending
here,” he said at the meeting.  Gas Field  The Cygnus field was the largest gas discovery in the south
of the  North Sea  in 25 years. Once in production it may supply
about 5 percent of the U.K.’s gas.  Osborne has sought to encourage the growth of gas over
renewable sources of power such as solar and wind, saying
industry needs cheap energy supplies to compete. Last month, he
won Davey’s support for tax relief for gas drillers, including a
500 million-pound tax allowance to spur investment in large gas
fields in shallow waters.  Davey, a Liberal Democrat in the Conservative-led coalition
government, is seeking to encourage renewables and prevented
Osborne from siding with fellow Conservatives in slashing
support for wind energy more than 10 percent. While his priority
has been to build the solar and wind industries, his comments
ahead of today’s gathering addressed only gas.  ‘Vital Source’  “The North Sea remains a vital source of the nation’s
energy security,” Davey said in the statement. “The government
is determined to maintain the best possible investment
environment.”  Osborne will speak at the event today, underscoring his
commitment to keep the U.K.’s  energy policy  stable.  “We have a clear and stable investment regime which allows
investors to commit funds with confidence,” he will say,
according to excerpts of his remarks released by the Treasury.
“We are committed to ensuring that these businesses continue to
see the U.K. and the U.K. continental shelf as an attractive
location for that investment.”  BP said it’s opening a new research center for advanced
materials and committing $100 million over 10 years to encourage
research in the subject. It will be based at the University of
Manchester, involving academics from University of Cambridge,
Imperial College London and the University of Illinois.  “The oil and gas industry’s contribution to our skills
base, industrial capacity and strength as an exporter are
pivotal,” said Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal
Democrat.  The government also said:  - Eni SpA (ENI) ’s Versalis chemical unit will invest as much as 60
million euros ($74.4 million) in expanding elastomer production
capacity at its site in Grangemouth, Scotland, aiming to serve
makers of automotive tires.  -Neftex Petroleum Consultants Ltd., an Oxfordshire-based
consultant for oil explorers, will recruit 50 new graduates to
its staff of 80.  -Tangent Technologies Ltd. won contracts worth 105,000
pounds to support two jobs in Plymouth starting in September,
where it’s been working for mining companies such as  BHP
Billiton Ltd (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  on making drilling rigs more
reliable.  - Melrose Resources Plc (MRS) , an Edinburgh-based oil explorer,
was granted a six-year concession to probe for natural gas in
the Kavarna East field in Bulgaria’s portion of the Black Sea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Metcalf in  London  at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  