-- U.K. House Prices Fall as Halifax Sees Stagnant Market: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-08-06T09:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/u-k-house-prices-fall-as-halifax-forecasts-stagnant-market-1-.html
U.K.  house prices  fell in July for
the first time in three months, according to mortgage lender
Halifax, adding to signs of weakness in the  property market .  Values dropped 0.6 percent from the previous month, when
they rose 0.8 percent, the mortgage unit of  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  said in a statement in  London  today. In the quarter through
July, values were unchanged compared with the previous three
months, and now average 161,094 pounds ($251,500).  Policy makers are struggling to boost lending and kick-
start a recovery after Britain’s recession deepened in the
second quarter. The  Bank of England  will probably lower its
outlook for the economy when Governor  Mervyn King  presents new
quarterly economic forecasts on Aug. 8, a week after officials
started a Funding for Lending plan to increase credit supply.  “The Halifax data heighten our suspicion that  house prices 
are headed lower over the rest of 2012,”  Howard Archer ,
economist at IHS Global Insight in London, said in a research
note. “There is a significant and mounting danger that house
prices could fall further and longer due to the serious downside
risks to the U.K. economic outlook, both from domestic factors
and from the euro-zone crisis.”  From a year earlier, U.K. house prices were down 1.3
percent in July, according to the Halifax index. Rightmove Plc,
the operator of the U.K.’s biggest property website, said today
that the housing market “continues to be blighted by low
transaction levels,” and recent data support that view.  Weak Demand  Nationwide Building Society  reported a 0.7 percent decline
in prices last month, and Hometrack Plc said values fell 0.1
percent as demand dropped the most in six months. Bank of
 England  data show mortgage approvals fell in June to the lowest
since December 2010.  “House prices have been very stable over the past year or
so,” said  Martin Ellis , housing economist at Halifax. “We
expect little change in prices over the remainder of 2012 so
long as the economic climate in the U.K. does not worsen
substantially.”  Britain’s economy  shrank 0.7 percent in the second quarter,
the most in more than three years. All 16 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey say the central bank will lower its 2012
economic outlook this week, while all but one see a reduction in
the 2013 projections. A majority also forecast a cut to the
central bank’s 2012 and 2013 inflation projections.  BOE Forecasts  The Bank of England, which kept its  bond-purchase target  at
375 billion pounds ($584 billion) last week, last published
projections in May, when it forecast average annual growth of
about 1.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 2.3 percent
in the fourth quarter of 2013. It predicted inflation at 2.9
percent and 1.7 percent in those quarters. Consumer-price growth
slowed to 2.4 percent in June.  U.K.  manufacturing production  probably fell 4.3 percent in
June from the previous month, economists said in a survey before
a report due tomorrow. Industrial output probably declined 3.5
percent. Also in the U.K. this week, a report on Aug. 10 may
show  factory output prices  were unchanged in July after dropping
0.4 percent the previous month.  The pound declined to a four-week low against the euro
today. It weakened 0.3 percent to 79.43 pence per euro after
falling to 79.46 pence, the weakest since July 9. It fell 0.4
percent versus the dollar to $1.5583.  Asian Growth  Elsewhere today, Indonesia’s economic growth unexpectedly
accelerated as rising investments countered declining exports.
 Gross domestic product  rose 6.37 percent in the three months
ended June 30 from a year earlier, compared with a revised 6.32
percent gain for the first quarter, the  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said in Jakarta.  Separate reports showed consumer prices in  Taiwan  rose at
the fastest pace in more than three years in July. In  Australia ,
job notices declined for a fourth month in July.  In the U.K., the British Chambers of Commerce said 52
percent of companies it surveyed cited economic developments in
the euro area as the main issue that will affect their
businesses this year and next. Forty-six percent cited U.K.
government spending cuts, while 42 percent access to finance.  Investor confidence in the euro area fell less than
economists forecast in August after the  European Central Bank 
said it may take new measures to tame the region’s debt crisis.
An  index of sentiment  by Germany’s Sentix institute declined to
minus 30.3 from minus 29.6 in July. Economists forecast a
decline to minus 31, the median of seven estimates in a
Bloomberg survey shows. A gauge of expectations rose to minus
23.3 from minus 24.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  warned of a potential
breakup of  Europe  without greater urgency in efforts to lower
government borrowing costs. In an interview with Der Spiegel
magazine published yesterday, he said disagreements within the
17-nation euro area are detracting from the response to the debt
crisis and undermining the future of the European Union.  “The tensions that have accompanied the euro zone in the
past years are already showing signs of a psychological
dissolution of Europe,” Monti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  