-- Cameron Pushes on With U.K. Boundary Plan Amid Coalition Rift
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-08-07T13:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/u-k-coalition-split-may-cost-cameron-commons-majority-in-2015.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
vowed to press on with a parliamentary vote on redrawing
electoral boundaries after his Liberal Democrat allies said
they’d oppose the plan in a dispute over constitutional reform.  “We want the boundary change vote to go ahead,” Cameron
told reporters during a visit to  Wales  today.  Coalition tensions escalated yesterday after Deputy Prime
 Nick Clegg  said he will order Liberal Democrat lawmakers to vote
against the proposal in retaliation for rank-and-file
Conservatives derailing his plans to overhaul the House of
Lords. Clegg said the Tories had “broken the contract” made
with his party during the coalition negotiations of 2010.  The Liberal Democrat threat may deliver a fatal blow to
Conservative hopes of winning an outright majority at the next
election due in 2015 as boundary change is also opposed by the
 Labour Party . The proposed realignment could see the Tories gain
as many as 20 seats in the House of Commons, according to
 Anthony Wells , associate director of pollster YouGov Plc.  “There is not a single policy that can now deliver them 20
extra seats,” Wells said. “They’ve blown it.”  Clegg’s announcement, made at news conference in  London 
yesterday following a telephone call with Cameron, plunged
relations between the two parties to the lowest ebb since they
came to power two years ago and cast fresh doubt on whether the
alliance can survive for three more years.  ‘Pick and Choose’  “Clearly I cannot permit a situation where Conservative
rebels can pick and choose the parts of the contract they like,
while Liberal Democrat MPs are bound to the entire agreement,”
Clegg said.  The review of  parliamentary boundaries  is designed to
reduce the number of lawmakers in the Commons, Parliament’s
lower house, to 600 from 650 and create seats with roughly equal
numbers of voters. The Tories would have won 299 seats, just
short of a majority, if the May 2010 election had been contested
on the proposed new boundaries, according to Wells.  “If Cameron doesn’t get the proposed boundary changes
through Parliament, the chances of the Conservatives winning a
majority at the next election are dramatically reduced,” Mark Wickham-Jones, professor of politics at Bristol University, said
in an interview. “It’s also going to make day-to-day management
of the coalition much tougher.”  Nothing to Offer  The decision to abandon attempts to introduce a largely
elected upper chamber of Parliament until at least 2015 is a
further blow for Clegg, who in 2011 lost a referendum to change
the voting system in general elections. It means he will face
voters in 2015 without having delivered any the constitutional
changes he promised and having reneged on other pre-election
commitments such a pledge not to increase tuition fees.  Cameron, who has been seeking to get the government back on
track after a series of policy U-turns and months of bleak
economic news, faces a test of his declining popularity after a
Conservative lawmaker said yesterday she was quitting U.K.
politics and moving to join her husband in  New York .  The decision by Louise Mensch will trigger a special
election in her parliamentary district of Corby and East
Northamptonshire in central  England , which she narrowly won from
the Labour Party in 2010. Nationally, Cameron has the backing of
33 percent of voters compared with 44 percent for Labour leader
 Ed Miliband , according to an Aug. 4  poll  of 1,787 people by
YouGov. Clegg had 8 percent.  ‘Fine’  Clegg dismissed suggestions the rift over the House of
Lords could cause the coalition to collapse, saying the
overriding priority of both parties is to reduce the  budget
deficit  and pull the economy out of recession. Asked by
reporters about relations with Cameron, Clegg replied they are
“fine, thank you very much.”  Cameron said dropping Lords reform would give the
government “the space to make the economy the government’s
number one priority.”  Outside the top ministerial team, Conservative lawmakers
expressed anger at the Liberal Democrat threat. “Apart from
keeping ministers in office, what is the coalition now for?”
Douglas Carswell wrote on his Twitter account. His Tory
colleague, Stewart Jackson, wrote that the coalition would be
“finished” if the  Liberal Democrats  voted down boundary
changes.  The  House of Lords Reform Bill  involved replacing the
current 816-member chamber, made up of political appointees,
hereditary nobility and Church of England bishops, with a
smaller chamber of mainly elected members serving a single 15-
year term.  Almost a third of Conservative lawmakers sided with Labour
last month in voting against fast-tracking the bill through
Parliament. With Cameron unable to win round Tory rebels, the
bill faced a “slow death” at the hands of its opponents, Clegg
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  