-- Cameron Faces Test as Tory Lawmaker Quits U.K. Politics
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-08-06T12:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/u-k-conservative-lawmaker-quits-seat-creating-test-for-cameron.html
Conservative Party lawmaker Louise Mensch unexpectedly resigned from U.K. politics today to move to
 New York , creating a test for Prime Minister  David Cameron  who
may struggle to retain the seat she narrowly won two years ago.  Her decision will trigger a special election for the
parliamentary district of  Corby and East Northamptonshire  in
central  England , which she gained with 42.2 percent of the vote
at the 2010 general election. The  Labour Party , which had held
the seat since 1997, got 38.6 percent.  “I am very sorry that despite my best efforts, I have been
unable to make the balancing act work for our family,” Mensch,
41, said in a letter to Cameron. The mother of three has been
forced to divide her time between the U.K. and the U.S., where
her husband manages bands including Metallica and Red Hot Chili Peppers.  The Conservatives have lost support after a string of
policy U-turns and are trailing behind the Labour opposition as
the recession deepens and government austerity measures bite.
Labour has argued that Cameron is out of touch with ordinary
voters since the March budget cut taxes for the highest earners
and raised them on the elderly.  The race to replace Mensch, who is best known as a member
of the parliamentary committee that investigated the phone-
hacking scandal, will also provide a test for  Ed Miliband . The
Labour leader will need to win the seat to answer his own
critics and demonstrate he is able to beat Cameron at the next
general election in 2015.  Labour Lead  Cameron has the backing of 33 percent of voters compared
with 44 percent who say they back Miliband, according to an Aug.
4 poll of 1,787 people by  YouGov Plc (YOU)  for the Sunday Times
newspaper.  Cameron noted in his reply to Mensch that her seat had been
Labour for 13 years before her election and that he supported
her decision “only because I wish to support you in acting in
the best interests of your family, which must come first.”  Labour’s election campaign will focus on “two wasted years
of Tory policies,” said Andy Sawford, the party’s prospective
parliamentary candidate for Corby.  “This will be a tough election for Labour but we are
determined to hold this Tory-led government to account by
showing the disastrous impact of their polices on the people of
Corby,” he said in a statement released by the party.  A possible date for the vote is Nov. 15, when elections for
police commissioners in England Wales are due to take place.  Attack on Labour  Mensch, an author and active user of social media sites
such as Twitter, most recently spoke out against Labour
lawmakers during a probe into the phone-hacking scandal. She and
other Tories refused to back a May 1 parliamentary report that
said News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  is “not a fit person”
to run the company.  She attacked five Labour members, including  Tom Watson ,
and one Liberal Democrat for going beyond their mandate.  Mensch has faced difficulties because of her social-media
profile. This month police said that a 60-year-old man was
charged with threatening her using e-mail and a social-
networking site.  Mensch told followers of her Twitter account on Aug. 21 she
had received e-mails threatening her children, according to a
report in the Daily Telegraph newspaper at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  