-- U.S. Public Pensions Earn 1.15% for Worst Showing Since 2009
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-08-06T17:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/u-s-public-pensions-earn-1-15-for-worst-showing-since-2009.html
U.S. state and local-government
pensions ended the 2012 fiscal year with a median gain of 1.15
percent as the  European debt crisis  and a slowing global economy
damped stock returns, Wilshire Associates said.  It was a reversal after two years of gains for the
retirement funds, which have $2.8 trillion in  assets , according
to the U.S. Census Bureau. The performance, included in a report
Wilshire is set to release today, may add to political pressure
on public workers to accept benefit cuts and increase
contributions to the plans.  In the last three weeks, the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the biggest U.S. pension, reported returns of
1 percent for the fiscal year ended June 30. New York City’s
$122 billion pension funds reported preliminary returns of 1.7
percent, and Maryland’s $37.1 billion plan earned 0.36 percent.  “The grave concern with  Maryland  is it assumes a very rosy
and very optimistic return rate of 7.75 percent,” said
Christopher Summers, president of the  Maryland Public Policy
Institute , which promotes policies based on free enterprise and
limited government. “You have the 11th or 12th year in a row
where the actual liabilities of the pension system are larger
than its assets.”  Budget Strain  State and local government pensions count on returns of 7
percent to 8.5 percent to pay retirement benefits for teachers,
police officers and other civil employees. To make up for losses
suffered during the 2008 financial crisis and the recession,
municipal officials had to contribute more to the funds,
straining budgets and leaving less money available for services.  Estimates of public-pension funding deficits vary from $757
billion to $4.6 trillion, depending on assumptions. To help
close the gap, 29 states made changes to their pensions in the
calendar year 2011, such as increasing employee contributions,
raising the  retirement age  and revising automatic cost-of-living
adjustments,  according  to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures .  Rhode Island  enacted the most sweeping change, closing the
defined-benefit pension that covers state employees, teachers
and many municipal employees. Current members will be
transferred to a hybrid plan that consists of a reduced defined-
benefit plan and a 401(k)-type account.  Longer View  The median annualized return for public pensions in the
past 10 years was 6.32 percent, Wilshire said. Public funds
returned 21.4 percent in fiscal 2011 and 12.6 percent in 2010,
according to  Santa Monica , California-based Wilshire. The median
public pension lost 17.4 percent in 2009.  Looking at a one-year snapshot doesn’t make sense given the
volatility of financial markets and because public pensions
operate over a long period, said Jordan Marks, the executive
director of the  National Public Pension Coalition,  a labor-
backed group that supports public pensions.  Also, states such as  Illinois  and  New Jersey  have short-
changed their pensions by not making their annual required
contributions, Marks said.  Over 25 years, the median annualized return for public
pensions is 8.3 percent,  according  to the National Association
of State Retirement Administrators.  “You have to look at this in terms of a long-term
investment strategy,” Marks said.  Stock Drag  Bigger allocations to U.S. and international stocks dragged
down performance compared with corporate pension funds, which
invest more in bonds, said Robert Waid, a managing director at
Wilshire.  Corporate pension plans had a median return for the year
ending June 30 of 3.68 percent, the best among institutional
funds, according to Wilshire. Foundations and endowments had the
worst returns, at 0.37 percent.  “In general, allocation to bonds helped all plans,” Waid
said. “It was a classic story of equity versus bond exposure.”  The  MSCI EAFE Index (MXEA) , which measures stock performance in
developed markets outside the U.S. and  Canada , lost 13.8 percent
for the year ending June 30. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
gained 5.4 percent for the period.  The report, compiled by the company’s Wilshire Trust
Universe Comparison Service, covers about 900 institutional
 investment trusts , including foundations and endowments, union
retirement funds, corporate plans and public pensions.  The median public pension had 54.9 percent of its holdings
in stocks, 26.3 percent in bonds, 3.98 percent in real estate
and 3.12 percent in alternative investments such as leveraged-
buyout or distressed-bond funds. About 2.73 percent was held in
cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  