-- U.S. July Conference Board Employment Trends Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-06T14:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/u-s-july-conference-board-employment-trends-index-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. employment trends index
from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Employment Trends Index edged up in July, after declining
the previous month. The index now stands at 108.11, up from the revised figure of
107.68 in June. The July figure is 5.9 percent higher than a year ago.  “The Employment Trends Index increased slightly in July, but is still below the
May level, and is only slightly above the February level, suggesting that slow
employment growth is likely to continue in the next few months,” said  Gad Levanon ,
Director of Macroeconomic Research at The Conference Board. “There is no reason to
expect employers to rapidly expand their workforce in the current economic
environment, and the July pace of job growth (163,000) is unlikely to be sustained.”  July’s increase in the ETI was driven by positive contributions from five of
the eight components. The improving indicators -- beginning with the largest
positive contributor -- were Initial Claims for Unemployment Insurance,  Industrial
Production , Number of Temporary Employees, Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales and
Percentage of Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to Get.”  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market indicators, each of
which has proven accurate in its own area. Aggregating individual indicators into a
composite index filters out “noise” to show underlying trends more clearly. The
eight labor-market indicators aggregated into the Employment Trends Index include:  Percentage of Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to Get” (The Conference
Board  Consumer Confidence  Survey)  Initial Claims for  Unemployment Insurance  (U.S. Department of Labor)  Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now (National
Federation of Independent Business Research Foundation)  Number of Employees Hired by the Temporary-Help Industry ( U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics )  Ratio of Involuntarily Part-time to All Part-time Workers (BLS)  Job Openings  (BLS)**  Industrial Production (Federal Reserve Board)*  Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales (U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis)**  The Conference Board publishes the Employment Trends Index monthly, at 10 a.m. ET on
the Monday that follows each Friday release of the Bureau of Labor Statistics
Employment Situation report. The technical notes to this series are available on The
Conference Board website:  http://www.conferenceboard . org/data/eti.cfm.  Employment Trends Index (ETI) 2012 Publication Schedule
Index Release Date (10 AM ET) Data for the Month
Monday, September 10           August
Tuesday, October 9*           September
Monday, November 5                October
Monday, December 10           November
*Tuesday release due to holiday  *Statistical imputation for the recent month
**Statistical imputation for two most recent months  SOURCE: The Conference Board
 http://www.conference-board.org 
