-- U.S. Stocks Advance on Europe as Earnings Beat Estimates
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-06T20:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/u-s-stock-futures-rise-mastercard-advances.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a three-month high, as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government backed the European
Central Bank’s bond-buying plan and earnings beat forecasts.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT)  increased at least 1.5 percent.  Cognizant Technology
Solutions Corp. (CTSH) , a provider of consulting and outsourcing
services, climbed 11 percent after raising its forecast. Best
Buy Co. surged 13 percent after founder Richard Schulze offered
to take the electronics retailer private at $24 to $26 a share.
Knight Capital Group Inc., the firm driven to the brink of
bankruptcy by trading losses last week, tumbled 24 percent.  About five  stocks  advanced for every three that fell on
U.S. exchanges at 4 p.m. in New York. The  S&P 500 (SPX)  rose 0.2
percent to 1,394.23, gaining 2.1 percent in two days. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  added 21.34 points, or 0.2 percent, to
13,117.51. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 5.7
billion shares, or 15 percent below the three-month average.  “The earnings season has surprised because expectations
were so low given the economic soft patch which hit the second
quarter,” said  James Paulsen , the chief investment strategist
at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management. His firm oversees
about $320 billion. The prospect for bond purchases by the ECB
“has also boosted bullish attitudes among investors.”  U.S. stocks followed European shares higher as Merkel’s
government backed the ECB’s bond-buying plan announced last
week, her deputy spokesman Georg Streiter said today. About 73
percent of the S&P 500 companies which reported second-quarter
results have beaten earnings estimates even as 59 percent missed
sales projections, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Biggest Gains  Seven out of 10 groups in the S&P 500 rose today as
commodity and technology shares had the biggest gains. Hewlett-
Packard, the world’s largest maker of personal computers, added
2.4 percent to $18.69.  Bank of America  gained 2.8 percent to
$7.64. Caterpillar, the largest maker of construction and mining
equipment, climbed 1.6 percent to $86.35.  Cognizant surged 11 percent to $64.21. The company is
gaining  revenue  as its clients seek savings by outsourcing tasks
to India and other lower-cost nations amid a slowing global
economy, Chief Financial Officer Karen McLoughlin said. The
company has also been building an emerging-technologies business
focused on data analysis and mobile solutions.  Best Buy jumped 13 percent to $19.99. Credit Suisse Group
AG, Schulze’s financial adviser, is confident it can obtain
financing for an offer, according to a letter sent to the board
today. The offer is at least 36 percent more than Best Buy’s
closing price Aug. 3, and the midpoint of the range gives the
company an equity value of  $8.5 billion .  Job Cuts  Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  advanced 10 percent to $24.62.
The maker of International brand trucks jumped after Crain’s
Chicago Business reported that the company has told employees
it’s considering options for the business including job cuts.  ViroPharma Inc. (VPHM)  gained 14 percent to $22.66 after it won
U.S. regulatory approval to expand manufacturing of Cinryze, the
company’s drug to treat hereditary angioedema, an inherited
disease in which patients have attacks of inflammation of the
face and throat, which can be fatal.  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  climbed 19 percent to $8.08. The wireless
carrier that operates the Nextel brand in Latin America rose
after Wells Fargo & Co. predicted its second-quarter results
would top the average analyst estimates.  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  added 1.3 percent to $59.78. The
company and Seikagaku Corp. won a U.S. patent-infringement trial
brought by Sanofi’s Genzyme over a treatment for arthritis in
the knee.  Bankruptcy Risk  Investors also watched the latest developments with  Knight (KCG) 
Capital, which received a $400 million cash infusion after a
deal reached yesterday. The company faced too much bankruptcy
risk to make its share price the top priority as it negotiated a
rescue, said Thomas Joyce, the chairman and chief executive
officer.  The Jersey City, New Jersey-based company, one of the
country’s biggest market makers, had to lock up an infusion of
capital to preserve its businesses, Joyce said in a telephone
interview today. Knight fell 24 percent to $3.07 as investors
prepared for hundreds of millions of shares to enter the market
via convertible securities.  “This was absolutely the right thing to do for this
organization,” Joyce said. “We understand the dilution is a
large amount, but for the future of  Knight Capital  Group, as
tough as it was to see happen, it was the right thing to do.”  ‘Dry Powder’  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  slipped 8 percent to $14.17. The largest
U.S. meat processor cut its full-year sales  forecast  and said
profit will be lower after the cost of animal feed rose because
of the country’s drought. The company is also cutting capital
expenditures and stock buybacks partly to keep “a lot of dry
powder around for an opportunistic acquisition,” Chief
Executive Officer Donnie Smith said.  AES Corp. (AES)  slumped 4.4 percent to $11.71. The power producer
with operations in 27 countries reported that 2012 profit would
be at the lower end of guidance.  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA)  lost 4 percent to $25.55. The biggest
U.S. hospital operator said its cardiology practices had come
under scrutiny from the U.S. Justice Department.  Interpublic Group of Cos. tumbled 7.8 percent to $10.11
after Publicis Groupe SA said it hasn’t held takeover talks with
the ad company or engaged a bank to support discussions,
following a newspaper report saying the French company may bid.  FreightCar America Inc. (RAIL)  slid 8.7 percent to $19.15 after
the maker of railroad freight cars posted quarterly  profit  and
sales that trailed analysts’ estimates.  S&P Downgrade  Global investors can’t get enough American securities a
year after S&P downgraded U.S. government debt.  The dollar has outperformed its peers in the past 12
months, rising by 10 percent against a basket of six currencies.
U.S. stocks have been the best performing equity market in terms
of dollars, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average advancing 14
percent. Treasuries also have done better since the S&P action
late on Aug. 5, 2011, returning 6.7 percent to investors
compared with 6.1 percent for other government bonds.  “We’re seeing negative data come in from a lot of parts of
the world,” said  Kenneth Rogoff , a professor at  Harvard
University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and a former chief
economist at the International Monetary Fund. “The rest of the
world is looking at the United States and saying, ‘I wish we
were the United States.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  