-- U.S. Beats Canada 4-3 to Reach Women’s Soccer Gold-Medal Game
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-06T22:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/u-s-beats-canada-4-3-to-reach-women-s-soccer-gold-medal-game.html
The U.S. came from behind three times
to beat  Canada  4-3 after extra time and advance to the final of
the Olympic women’s soccer tournament.  Alex Morgan’s goal in the 123rd minute gave the U.S. the
victory at Old Trafford in Manchester,  England . The Americans
will meet Japan for the gold medal on Aug. 9 at Wembley Stadium
in London in a rematch of last year’s  World Cup  final.  Christine Sinclair scored all three goals for Canada, with
each giving her team the lead in the game. Megan Rapinoe had two
goals for the U.S. and  Abby Wambach  scored on a penalty kick.  The U.S has reached the final of all five Olympic women’s
soccer tournaments. It’s won three gold medals, including the
past two.  Sinclair gave Canada the lead in the 22nd minute and
Rapinoe tied the score by putting her corner kick inside the
near post nine minutes into the second half.  Sinclair headed Canada back in front in the 67th minute,
only to have Rapinoe answer once again with a shot from the edge
of the area. After Sinclair completed her hat trick with another
header, Wambach scored from the penalty spot with 10 minutes
remaining and the game went into extra time.  Wambach hit the crossbar with a header in the 118th minute
before Morgan headed in a cross from Heather O’Reilly with about
30 seconds remaining.  In the first semifinal at Wembley, Japan jumped out to a 2-
0 lead on goals from Yuki Ogimi and Mizuho Sakaguchi. Eugenie le
Sommer scored for  France  in the 75th minute. The French then
missed a chance to tie three minutes later when Elise Bussaglia
was wide with a penalty kick.  Japan beat the U.S. 3-1 in a penalty shootout in the 2011
World Cup final in Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 