-- U.S. Aug. NAHB/First American Improving Markets Index (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-08-06T14:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/u-s-aug-nahb-first-american-improving-markets-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the
Housing Opportunity Index from the National Association
of Home Builders.  A total of 80 metropolitan statistical areas across 32 states
and the  District of Columbia  were listed as improving housing
markets on the National Association of Home Builders/First American
Improving Markets Index (IMI) for August, released today.  This included 75 markets that retained their places on the list
along with five new ones, while nine areas fell from the list due
primarily to slight movements in  house prices .
The index identifies metropolitan areas that have shown improvement
from their respective troughs in housing permits, employment and house
prices for at least six consecutive months. The five metros that were
added to the list this month include Miami and Palm Bay, Fla.;
Hinesville, Ga.; Terre Haute, Ind.; and Lubbock,  Texas .
“The list of improving housing markets in August includes metros across
every region of the country, all of which have distinctly different
characteristics in terms of their economic and employment bases as well
as other factors,” noted Barry Rutenberg, chairman of the  National
Association of Home Builders  (NAHB) and a home builder from Gainesville, Fla.
“One thing that most markets have in common, however, is the tight lending
environment for both builders and buyers that continues to drag on their
positive momentum.”
“The fact that we continue to see a strong core of metros showing up
on the improving list each month adds to the growing evidence that the
emerging housing recovery has a solid foundation on which to build as
housing returns to its traditional role of driving economic growth,”
observed NAHB Chief Economist  David Crowe .
“With nearly one quarter of all U.S. metros currently designated as
improving housing markets, there is growing recognition among consumers
that now is an opportune time to consider a home purchase,” added
 Kurt Pfotenhauer , vice chairman at First American Title Insurance
Company.  The IMI is designed to track housing markets throughout the country that
are showing signs of improving economic health. The index measures three
sets of independent monthly data to get a mark on the top improving
Metropolitan Statistical Areas. The three indicators that are analyzed
are employment growth from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, house price
appreciation from  Freddie Mac  and single-family housing permit growth
from the U.S. Census Bureau. NAHB uses the latest available data from
these sources to generate a list of improving markets. A metropolitan
area must see improvement in all three measures for at least six months
following those measures’ respective troughs before being included on the
improving markets list.
A complete list of all 80 metropolitan areas currently on the IMI, and
separate breakouts of metros newly added to or dropped from the list in
August, is available at www.nahb.org/imi.
Editor’s Note: The NAHB/First American Improving Markets Index (IMI) is
released on the fourth business day of each month at 10:00 a.m., ET,
unless that day falls on a Friday - in which case, the index is released
on the following Monday. A full calendar of future release dates can be
found at www.nahb.org/imi.  Source: National Association of Home Builders
 http://www.nahb.com/facts/economics/housingopindex.html   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ainhoa Goyeneche in Washington at   agoyenechecu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  