-- Muni-Market Cuts, Danes’ Cibor, China OTC: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-08-06T12:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/muni-market-cuts-danes-cibor-china-otc-sunstein-compliance.html
Wall Street bond dealers may be
cutting their commitment to trading municipal securities as
regulations have increased transparency, according to
preliminary findings of an industry-backed study.  Rules  imposed  in 2005 have improved the efficiency of the
$3.7 trillion muni-bond market by requiring dealers to disclose
trade data to regulators within 15 minutes, said  Erik Sirri , a
former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulator who is
studying the market. The changes have cut borrowing costs for
states and cities, Sirri said Aug. 3 at a municipal-finance
conference at Brandeis University in Waltham, Massachusetts.  Yet fewer dealers are involved in transactions than
previously, which may reduce the market’s liquidity, he said.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board in 2005 began
requiring so-called real-time pricing, which requires dealers to
release trade data within 15 minutes of a transaction, down from
24 hours previously. Last year, the industry’s self-regulatory
organization in Alexandria, Virginia, hired Sirri to study
transaction data it collects and makes public on its website.  Sirri said his comments were based on his initial findings.
He said the full report would be ready in about a month.  A Federal Reserve report in March showed that Wall Street
securities firms had cut their inventories of state and local-
government bonds by 21 percent last year to $31.5 billion, the
lowest level since 2004. The companies act as intermediaries for
buyers and sellers, using their capital to warehouse any extra
bonds to resell later. That can spur both profits and losses
when markets are volatile, while providing liquidity.  Compliance Policy  China Approves Expansion of OTC Market Trial, Securities Says  China’s  State Council  has approved the expansion of an
over-the-counter stock market trial as regulators seek to wean
companies in the world’s second-largest economy off their
dependency on bank loans.  The trial, which began with an OTC market in Beijing’s
Zhongguancun Science Park, will be expanded to three additional
high-tech zones in the cities of Shanghai, Wuhan and Tianjin,
the China Securities Journal  reported  Aug. 3, citing the  China
Securities Regulatory Commission . Beijing’s OTC market trails
began in 2006, according to the city government.  China is encouraging companies to raise more money through
stock and bond sales to reduce their dependency on bank loans
and increase the transparency of their finances.  The regulator supports sales of bonds and public shares by
private companies, and encourages them to list overseas, the
CSRC  said  on May 25.  Compliance Action  Danish Central Bank Says Replacing Cibor Is ‘Not Realistic’  Denmark’s  central bank  said replacing the  Copenhagen
interbank offered rate  is “not realistic” as the government
embarks on a probe of Cibor following speculation that lenders
have fixed the rate too high.  Central bank spokesman Karsten Biltoft said in an e-mailed
response to questions received Aug. 3 that replacing Cibor is
not realistic “given the large amount of outstanding
contracts.” He added that other relevant supplements may also
be considered.  The Danish central bank handed over publication of Cibor,
which is based on quotes from lenders including  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
and  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , to  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  in April last year,
saying it could no longer “assess the quality” of the rate.
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  will cease to provide bids for Cibor, reducing the
number of quoting banks to seven, the  Danish Bankers Association 
said Aug. 3.  Business Minister Ole Sohn is reviewing whether a full
investigation of Cibor is needed after analysts at Stockholm-
based SEB AB said it had been fixed too high. Sohn has proposed
creating an external authority to replace bank oversight of
Cibor, Borsen reported this week.  The Bankers Association is conducting its own review of the
rate, due to be completed by the end of the summer, Joergen A.
Horwitz, the group’s director, said in an interview last month.  For more, click here.  American Express May Be Forced to Pay Refunds Amid CFPB Review  American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, said it may be forced to refund customers as bank
regulators weigh enforcement actions based on consumer-
protection laws.  The lender “currently believes” the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau will take enforcement action against at least
one of the company’s units and possibly a second, similar to
measures the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. had said previously
it intends to pursue, New York-based AmEx said Aug. 2 in a
quarterly filing.  The bank and its subsidiaries “continue to make changes to
certain of their card practices and products and established
accruals for, among other costs, expected refunds to
cardmembers,” American Express said in the filing.  U.S. financial firms face inquiries and information
requests from regulators reviewing the sale of add-on credit-
card products.  Hungarian Antitrust Body Confirms Investigation Into MasterCard  Hungary’s antitrust regulator confirmed that it’s
investigating alleged abuses by  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s
second-biggest payments network, over the company’s dominant
position on the  interbank market .  Interbank commissions charged by MasterCard, whose market
share exceeds 75 percent in Hungary, “may serve to squeeze
out” its “only serious competitor,” Visa Europe Ltd., on
which the European Commission has imposed price limits, the
Budapest-based regulator said Aug. 3 by e-mail.  MasterCard was informed of the investigation in June, the
company said Aug. 1 in a quarterly report. The probe focuses on
a period beginning December 2010, it said.  Visa Europe, which operates the European Union’s largest
payment-card network, has received an antitrust complaint from
the bloc’s regulators over the fees it charges to process cross-
border credit-card payments. The company can defend itself in
writing or seek a hearing before EU regulators decide on fines
that could reach 10 percent of annual sales.  Hungary’s antitrust regulator fined MasterCard and Visa
Europe in 2009, saying they colluded with local banks on fees
charged to credit-card customers. MasterCard denies any
wrongdoing and appealed that decision.  Teva Subpoenaed by U.S. Regulators in Overseas Bribery Probe  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
maker of generic medicines, said it received a subpoena from
U.S. regulators in connection with a bribery investigation in
Latin America.  Teva is cooperating with the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s July 9 request to provide documents regarding
compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Petach
Tikva, Israel-based company said yesterday in a regulatory
filing.  Drugmakers and manufacturers of medical devices have
reported getting requests in the past year for information from
U.S. prosecutors and regulators on compliance with the act in
Europe and South America.  “Teva is also conducting a voluntary investigation into
certain business practices which may have FCPA implications and
has engaged independent counsel to assist in its
investigation,” the company said in the filing. “These matters
are in their early stages and no conclusion can be drawn at this
time as to any likely outcomes.”  Knight Investors Eye Prize in Market-Making for Individuals  The investors who bailed out  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  by
purchasing $400 million in convertible securities are gaining
control of the biggest trading partner for individuals in the
world’s largest stock market.  While last week’s $440 million trading loss highlighted
Knight’s importance to institutional traders, the company
accounted for 29 percent of the average monthly volume in U.S.
 equity trading  by individuals in the first quarter, according to
a June 7 presentation. Stifel Nicolaus & Co. and TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp., two of the firm’s rescuers, sent 38 percent and 9
percent of market orders in New York Stock Exchange-listed
securities to Knight last quarter, respectively, according to
public execution-disclosure statements.  Knight was saved from insolvency by Getco LLC, Blackstone
Group LP, Stephens Inc. and Jefferies Group Inc., as well as
Stifel and TD Ameritrade, according to people familiar with the
matter who asked not to be identified because the agreements
aren’t public. Knight’s mishap sent 140 stocks into sudden
swings at the Aug. 1 open, the latest breakdown to challenge the
integrity of the world’s biggest stock market.  The rescue involves a $400 million cash infusion through
the sale of convertible preferred securities, according to a
regulatory filing today.  Kara Fitzsimmons, a Knight spokeswoman, declined to comment
before the release of the filing. Fred Tomczyk, TD Ameritrade’s
president and chief executive officer, declined to speak as he
left Knight’s headquarters in Jersey City,  New Jersey  yesterday.  Sophie Sohn, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Getco,
declined to comment. Representatives for Stifel, Blackstone,
Stephens and Jefferies didn’t respond to calls and e-mails
seeking comment.  Knight is the dominant firm in equity wholesaling, the
business of executing orders off exchanges primarily for
brokerages such as Scottrade Inc. and TD Ameritrade, according
to  Larry Tabb , chief executive officer of research firm Tabb
Group LLC in New York.  For more, click here.  U.S. Consumer Bureau Probes AIG Over Mortgage Insurance Business  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is investigating
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  over issues related to
mortgage insurance, the company said in an Aug. 2 regulatory
filing.  AIG said the CFPB issued a civil investigative demand, an
early step in a probe, in June. On July 24, the bureau suspended
the deadlines for complying with the demand “pending
discussions that could resolve the investigation,” AIG said.  State and federal regulators have in recent years examined
the propriety of payments between lenders and insurers for
policies covering mortgages, and whether they comply with the
Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act.  Courts  Ex-UBS Executives Gave FGIC Early Notice on Bids, Witness Says  Two former  UBS AG (UBSN)  municipal-bond executives accused of
rigging bids gave a contact at a  General Electric Co. (GE)  unit early
notice of how much to bid on bonds, a former colleague
testified.  Mark Zaino, who worked on the bond desk at UBS with the
defendants, on Aug. 2 walked jurors in federal court in
Manhattan through three transactions, involving bond issues for
Puerto Rico, the Massachusetts Educational Financing Authority
and a Rhode Island housing project.  Zaino testified that defendants Gary Heinz and Michael
Welty often worked with a contact at GE’s Financial Guaranty
Insurance Co. and gave FGIC early notice of how high or low to
bid on bonds. The men are on trial along with Peter Ghavami, the
former head of UBS’s municipal-derivatives group.  Zaino, whose testimony was met with frequent objections
from defense attorneys, said he hadn’t directly participated in
the Puerto Rico or Rhode Island deals and knew about them
because the group members discussed their work with each other.  Ghavami, Heinz and Welty are charged with conspiracy to
defraud municipal-bond issuers and U.S. tax authorities by
fixing the prices on the investing agreements.  Zaino told jurors during testimony earlier last week that
he pleaded guilty to three criminal counts in 2010 and is
testifying in the hopes of reducing a possible 35-year prison
sentence.  The case is U.S. v.  Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ivory Coast Sets Up Commerce Court to Boost Business Confidence  Ivory Coast, the world’s biggest cocoa producer, will open
a special court to hear legal complaints from the country’s
business community in a bid to improve investor confidence in
the West African nation.  Francois Komoin, president of the court, said that the role
of the court will be make investors “more comfortable putting
their money in Ivory Coast.” He made the remarks Aug. 3 in
Abidjan, the commercial capital where the body will be based.  Ivory Coast, the biggest economy in West Africa’s monetary
union, has forecast growth of 8.2 percent this year after a 4.7
percent contraction in 2011. The country is recovering from
post-election violence last year.  The court, which will start operating Oct. 1, is a pilot
project, Komoin said.  MasterCard Files Appeal on Card Fees With EU’s Highest Court  MasterCard Inc. is asking the European Union’s highest
court to overturn an EU decision that the company’s cross-border
card fees breach antitrust rules.  MasterCard filed its appeal at the EU Court of Justice in
Luxembourg in a case that may affect the future of card payment
systems in Europe. MasterCard told a lower EU court in a hearing
last year that it can’t operate without the fees it charges on
credit-card payments. The company lost its first appeal and has
now taken its fight to the top EU court.  The EU General Court, the bloc’s second-highest, in May
backed the European Commission’s 2007 decision that MasterCard’s
levies unfairly inflated the transaction fees paid by retailers
for processing payments.  The case tests whether such levies are unfair to retailers
and customers and could be a road-map for national regulators to
pursue their own complaints. Visa Europe Ltd., operator of the
EU’s largest payment-card network, was sent an antitrust
complaint over its cross-border credit-card payment fees, EU
regulators said July 31.  Visa Europe has reduced similar fees for  debit cards  to
settle a 2009 EU complaint. The company split from  Visa Inc. (V) 
before the U.S. card company’s initial public offering in early
2008.  While MasterCard agreed to fee changes in 2009 in a
settlement with the Brussels-based EU regulator to avoid a daily
penalty of as much as 3.5 percent of sales, it asked the court
to quash the EU antitrust agency’s findings. The fee cuts will
save consumers 200 million euros ($247 million) a year, the
commission said at the time.  Five U.K. retailers, including Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda,
have filed separate lawsuits in London against MasterCard,
according to court documents dated May 23.  The commission declined to comment on the appeal.  Rulings by the EU Court of Justice are binding and cannot
be appealed.  Interviews  Grimstone Says Boardrooms Must Fix London’s Reputation  Gerry Grimstone, chairman of  TheCityUK , a lobby group for
London’s financial district, talked about the industry’s
reputation following the Libor rate-setting scandal.  He spoke with  Maryam Nemazee  on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Cantor’s Matthews ‘Not Sure’ if Firm Will Buy Knight  Shawn Matthews, chief executive officer of Cantor
Fitzgerald LP’s  broker-dealer unit, discussed the firm’s hiring
plans and strategy, and the outlook for Knight Capital Group
Inc.  Matthews spoke with  Stephanie Ruhle  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.”  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Sunstein Wins Business Plaudits, Criticism on Exit  Cass Sunstein, the chief regulatory adviser for President
Barack Obama, said Aug. 3 he will resign, leaving behind a
record criticized by both political opponents and White House
allies.  Sunstein, 57, will return to Harvard Law School later this
month after three years at the  White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs , which oversees federal rules. In that
role, Sunstein pushed agencies to weed out unnecessary or
outdated regulations and ordered them to consider the cumulative
financial burdens of rulemaking when crafting new directives.  Rules during the first 32 months of the Obama
administration cost $19.9 billion and delivered $91 billion in
net benefits, according to the Office of Management and Budget,
the parent agency of OIRA.  Sunstein will be replaced on an interim basis by Boris
Bershteyn, the general counsel of OMB.  John Graham, who ran OIRA in  George W. Bush ’s first term,
said Sunstein was an able administrator during a “highly
polarized time.” Sunstein also was hailed by the Business
Roundtable, a Washington-based group of business executives.  Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential
nominee, has run campaign ads promising that on “Day 1” in the
White House, he will begin “repealing jobs-killing regulations
that are costing the economy billions.”  Environmental and safety advocates said Aug. 3 Sunstein was
overly deferential to business interests and less effective in
strengthening consumer protections.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 