-- Murders Rival Jobs in Emanuel’s Battle to Right Chicago
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-08-06T18:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/murders-rival-jobs-in-emanuel-s-battle-to-right-chicago.html
Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  is racking
up numbers that his former boss, President  Barack Obama , would
covet. Since Emanuel took office in May 2011, Chicago boasts the
fastest  job creation  among the biggest U.S. cities.  As chief executive of the nation’s third-largest city,
though, Emanuel must answer for another figure as well: the
murder rate, up 27 percent this year. The contrast has produced
a jarring mix of headlines. “Six Shot in 15 Minutes” and
“Smartphone maker will bring all 3,000 jobs to Merchandise
Mart,” read a couple within two days of each other last month.  The news that Motorola Mobility Inc. would leave the
suburbs for the city -- the biggest shift since  Sears, Roebuck &
Co. (SHLD)  went the other direction in 1992 -- is a “game changer,”
Emanuel, 52, said in an interview. It’s also a reminder of how
the political challenges for a big-city mayor don’t rest
entirely on the economy, even in a year when the job climate is
shaping the presidential campaign.  “It’s become two cities,” said John McCarron, an urban
affairs writer and adjunct professor of journalism at  DePaul
University  in Chicago. “One is booming, and the other one is
becoming more violent and more desperate and more disassociated
from the economy of the city and the region.”  Goolsbee’s Help  Emanuel, Obama’s former chief of staff, got help last month
from another top aide who left the White House to return to
Chicago.  Austan Goolsbee , the president’s former economic
adviser now back at the University of Chicago’s Booth School of
Business, issued a  paper  showing that since May 2011, Chicago
improved the most among the 10 largest U.S. cities in the
jobless rate and employment ratio, a measure of job creation.  Motorola Mobility, which  Google Inc. (GOOG)  acquired in May, said
July 26 that it would move its headquarters from the northern
suburb of Libertyville to the Merchandise Mart along the Chicago
River. It was the Emanuel administration’s 32nd jobs
announcement, the biggest in a series of corporate commitments
to bring a total of more than 20,000 jobs to Chicago.  “It’s not like the economy overall in the country was
going so great that Chicago is just riding a wave,” Emanuel
said in his City Hall office. “We are making Chicago, which is
a goal of mine, the digital mecca of the Midwest.”  Workforce Quality  Emanuel touts the quality of the city’s workforce and his
administration’s efforts to improve Chicago’s financial
condition as a way to lure  Ford Motor Co. (F) , GE Capital Corp.,
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and other companies.  Still, the numbers show clear divisions. The job growth is
mostly downtown while the vast majority of homicides this year -
- a total of 308 through July 31, compared with 243 in the same
period in 2011 -- have occurred in poorer areas, on the south
and west sides. There have been no murders this year in District
1, which includes the city’s Loop business district.  Since Aug. 3, at least five men died in the city from
gunshot or stab wounds, and 29 people were wounded, the  Chicago
Sun-Times  reported today. In a July 23 shooting on the southeast
side, a 17-year-old high school student and a 34-year-old mother
of three were killed when gunfire ripped through Merrill Park.
(Some residents call it “Murder Park” because of the gang turf
wars that plague it.)  Downtown Focus  “Rahm only cares about downtown  Chicago  -- that’s his
’hood,” said Harold Raddle, 46, a construction worker who lives
near the park. “You can put all the jobs you want downtown.
What good is it going to do for your community? There’s no
killings downtown or shootings. The minute there are, I
guarantee you they’ll stop it just like that.”  Emanuel rejects that claim, as well as comparisons with
other cities, including  Detroit , where downtown development has
risen along with neighborhood turmoil. Ford said last year it
would add more than 1,000 workers to its Torrence Avenue plant
on the city’s far southeast side.  Chicago is encouraging blue-collar as well as white-collar
hiring, the mayor said. On the same day his office announced
that Braintree, a provider of online payment systems, would add
150 downtown positions, Chicago hosted a jobs fair to hire 400
bus drivers for its public-transit system, he said.  “I don’t believe it’s an either-or,” Emanuel said.
“We’re making sure all parts of our economy grow, and therefore
all parts of our skilled workforce have a chance at it.”  Falling Rate  The mayor also pointed to progress on the  murder rate ,
emphasizing that the second quarter saw a decline in the
frequency of homicides and that total crime is down 10 percent
this year.  “We’re slowly getting our arms around it,” Emanuel said.  July murders in Chicago dropped to their lowest level in 25
years, according to figures released by the police department,
and growth in the murder rate has slowed after a 66 percent
spike in the first quarter. The city is closing liquor stores,
demolishing abandoned buildings and targeting gangs.  “Tonight something could happen on the streets,” Emanuel
said before tilting his left hand downward. “On the other hand,
I know where the trend lines are going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 Fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  