-- Egypt Buries Soldiers as Brotherhood Questions Israel Ties
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-08-07T14:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/mursi-sends-egypt-helicopter-gunships-to-sinai-after-16-killed.html
Thousands of Egyptians gathered for
the funeral of 16 soldiers killed by militants in Sinai, in an
attack that gave President Mohamed Mursi his most serious test
since assuming office and led the  Muslim Brotherhood  to call for
reviewing Egypt’s peace treaty with Israel.  Mursi’s newly appointed Prime Minister Hisham Qandil was
pelted by shoes during the ceremony, aired live on state
television, as the flag-draped coffins of the soldiers killed on
Aug. 5 were carried on a parade route where former President
 Anwar Sadat  was assassinated more than 30 years ago.  As troops held back the crowd, some mourners chanted that
the military and people were “one hand,” while others railed
against Mursi, the Brotherhood and the group’s spiritual leader,
chanting “leave, leave,” as coffins were carried into a
mosque. Mursi didn’t attend.  No group has claimed responsibility for the bloodshed near
the border with the  Gaza Strip , which the Brotherhood said was
aimed at driving a wedge between Egypt and the Hamas government
in the Palestinian territory. Mursi, drawn from the ranks of the
Brotherhood, is contending with popular sentiment against the
1978 peace accord with Israel at a time when he is already
engaged in a power struggle with the military that handed over
power to him in June.  Sinai Security  The attack “draws our attention to the fact that our
forces in the Sinai lack the personnel and the equipment to
protect the region or guard our borders, which makes it
imperative to review the terms of our accords with Israel,” the
Brotherhood said in a  statement  posted today on the website of
its political arm, the Freedom and Justice Party.  Hosni Mubarak , who was ousted last year, closely cooperated
with Israel on security and helped maintain an embargo on Gaza.
By contrast, Mursi met with senior leaders of Hamas last week in
Cairo to discuss relaxing border controls.  “I hope this will be a wakeup call for Egypt regarding the
necessity to be sharp and efficient on their side,” Israeli
Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said while touring the border
region. Last August, gunmen operating out of Sinai killed eight
Israelis and injured about 40 people near the southern Israeli
city of Eilat. A natural  gas pipeline  feeding into Israel and
Jordan has been attacked 15 times since Mubarak’s fall.  ‘Deliberate Drawdown’  Israel  would argue that “the deterioration in security has
been facilitated by a deliberate drawdown in security operations
by the Egyptian military in northern Sinai,” Crispin Hawes,
director of the Eurasia Group’s Mideast program, said by phone
from  London . “They’ve helped facilitate a situation they now
can’t control.”  Still, the attack won’t “fundamentally affect the desire
and the mutual need on both sides to up their efforts to
cooperate on things like sharing intelligence on what is
becoming a very dangerous situation in Sinai,” said Hawes.  The deterioration in security comes as Mursi struggles to
revive an economy battered by unrest since Mubarak was ousted in
February 2011. Egypt’s international reserves fell to a record
low of $14.4 billion in July, data released by the  Central Bank 
of Egypt today show, continuing what was a steady decline
interrupted by three months of marginal gains between April and
June.  Gaza ‘Elements’  The Sinai assault, which the military said involved 35
people, took place near the Rafah border crossing with Gaza. The
region has suffered a spate of attacks and kidnappings in the
past year which have been attributed variously to militant
groups and local Bedouin. The military blamed the latest
bloodshed on “enemies of the state,” and said the assailants
may have been supported by “elements” in Gaza.  Hamas, which is considered a terrorist organization by the
U.S., Israel and the European Union, denied any involvement and
condemned the attack. No group has claimed responsibility.  The peace accord between  Egypt  and Israel limits the number
of troops Egypt can deploy in the peninsula. Mursi, who has
repeatedly said that the country will honor its international
agreements, ordered the military to take “complete control” of
the region and send in helicopter gunships. The army was
patrolling the area by land, sea and air today, the independent
Al Shorouk newspaper said. Authorities were also demolishing
smuggling tunnels used to ferry supplies to Gaza, it reported.  The charred bodies of six of the attackers arrived at
hospital in Arish, the state-run Ahram Gate website said today.
They were killed by Israeli forces after trying to break through
the border following the attack on the Egyptian soldiers,
officials said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  