-- Wasendorf Receiver Seeks to Cash in Life Insurance Policy
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-06T23:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/wasendorf-receiver-seeks-to-cash-in-life-insurance-policy.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.
Chairman Russell Wasendorf Sr. has two universal life insurance
policies providing him with at least $6.6 million in coverage,
his court-appointed receiver said in a court filing.  Chicago  lawyer Michael Eidelman, who was appointed in the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission lawsuit against
Wasendorf and his firm, today asked a federal judge for
permission to cash in one policy for its nearly $1.3 million
surrender value and to quit paying premiums on the other.  That request came amid a broader proposal by Eidelman for
establishing specific procedures for liquidating Wasendorf’s
holdings, including a jet plane.  The CFTC accused Wasendorf and Peregrine on July 10 of
misappropriating more than $200 million in customer funds. The
 Cedar Falls , Iowa-based firm filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy
protection the same day.  A day earlier, Wasendorf tried to kill himself outside the
company’s headquarters after the  National Futures Association ,
an industry self-regulator, announced the money was missing from
the firm’s bank accounts.  Among Wasendorf’s holdings were the policies, a Hawker
Beechcraft Inc. model 400A jet, a restaurant, a publishing
company and a wine collection, according to today’s filing.  Embezzled Funds  “The receiver currently believes that many of the assets
were procured with funds embezzled from Peregrine,” Eidelman
and attorney Randall Lending told U.S. District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer in the submission.  Eidelman seeks Pallmeyer’s permission to abandon Wasendorf
property worth less than $50,000 if the cost of maintaining it
is too great without giving notice to the court or creditors. He
proposed a limited notice procedure for disposing of property
worth as much as $250,000 for the same reason. Disposition of
assets worth more than that would be subject to court approval,
they said.  The lawyers have asked for a hearing on Aug. 8.  While the older of the two life insurance policies, issued
in 2004 with a face amount of $4.5 million, has a surrender
value, the $2.16 million policy procured in 2011 does not,
Eidelman and Lending said. Should Wasendorf die before that
policy’s expected lapse in February 2014, the death benefit
should be paid to the receivership, he said.  They have also told the court they wish to abandon the
Beechcraft jet, in which Wasendorf had no equity, to its secured
creditor or a co-obligor identified as Family Air LLC.  Wasendorf has been charged with lying to federal
regulators. His criminal case is pending in the U.S. court in
 Cedar Rapids ,  Iowa .  The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).
The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-27488,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).
The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  