-- Weight Training May Help Lower Diabetes Risk in Men
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-08-06T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/weight-training-may-help-lower-diabetes-risk-in-men.html
Weight training alone or with aerobic
exercise may lower diabetes risk in men, Harvard University
research showed, while a German study found that physical
activity keeps those with the disease alive longer.  Lifting weights 30 minutes a day, five times a week, may
reduce a man’s chance of developing  Type 2 diabetes  by as much
as 34 percent, and when combined with aerobic exercise like
brisk walking or running, cuts the risk as much as 59 percent,
according to the Harvard research posted online today in the
 Archives of Internal Medicine . The German study showed that
people with diabetes who were moderately active had a 38 percent
lower risk of dying compared with those who didn’t exercise.  The Harvard study is the largest on the benefits of weight
training and aerobic activity on diabetes, while the German
research is the biggest to look at exercise and mortality in
diabetics, the authors said. More studies are needed to find
better ways to motivate people to exercise, said  Mitchell Katz ,
director of the Los Angeles County Department of Health
Services, who wrote an accompanying editorial in the journal.  “How to increase motivation to stay active is the $1
million question facing physicians and health care experts and
not just because of diabetes,” Katz said in an Aug. 5 e-mail.
“A number of diseases including cardiac disease, the most
common cause of death in the U.S., and cancer, the second-most
common,” are reduced through exercise, he said.  About  346 million people worldwide  have Type 2 diabetes,
and diabetes-related deaths may double between 2005 and 2030,
according to the  World Health Organization .  150 Minutes  In the study from the Harvard School of  Public Health  and
the University of Southern Denmark, the researchers looked at
32,002 men from the  Health Professionals Follow-up Study  from
1990 to 2008. During that time 2,278 men developed diabetes.  Men who did weight training one to 59 minutes a week
reduced their diabetes risk by 12 percent, those who engaged in
weight training 60 to 149 minutes a week reduced their risk by
25 percent and those who weight trained for at least 150 minutes
a week lowered it by 34 percent compared with those who did no
weight training, the authors said. Combining 150 minutes a week
of weight training with 150 minutes of aerobic exercise reduced
diabetes risk by 59 percent.  “When we use our muscles as in weight training our body’s
insulin resistance goes down meaning we more readily move blood
sugar from the bloodstream into the cells and we require less
insulin to do that so that the blood sugar levels stay lower and
put less demand on the pancreas to produce insulin,” said
Walter Willett, the author of the first study and chair of the
Department of Nutrition at the  Harvard School of Public Health 
in  Boston .  Couch Consequences  “The more we paint the full picture of the consequences of
staying on the couch, the more people we are likely to motivate
to put some activity into their lives,” Willett said in an Aug.
3 telephone interview. “This is looking at one part of the
picture -- diabetes -- but more importantly to people, even a
few minutes a day of strength training it can make an important
difference. There are immediate benefits of feeling better.”  The second study, led by researchers from the  German
Institute of Human Nutrition  in Nuthetal, looked prospectively
at 5,859 patients with diabetes and found that those who engaged
in moderate amounts of exercise were at a lower risk of death
compared with those who were inactive. In an analysis of 12
studies, the researchers found that higher levels of total
physical activity, leisure-time physical activity and walking
were related to a lower risk of overall mortality and death from
heart diseases.  “Compared with being inactive, being moderately active may
already improve survival in persons with diabetes,” said
Diewertje Sluik, the lead study author and a doctor of public
health with the nutrition institute, in an e-mail today.
“Unfortunately, not many diabetes patients engage in regular
physical activity. Therefore, it is necessary to promote active
lifestyles among persons with diabetes and future research
should determine why persons do not adhere to this advice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  