-- Wintour, Weinstein Host Connecticut Fundraiser to Help Obama
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-08-07T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/wintour-weinstein-to-help-raise-cash-for-obama-in-connecticut.html
President Barack Obama, seeking to
raise at least $2.4 million, turned to movie mogul  Harvey Weinstein  and other entertainment industry leaders for help
funding his re-election campaign.  At the second of two events in Connecticut last night,
Weinstein and his wife, Georgina Chapman, held a $35,800-a-head
dinner at their Westport home.  The dinner for 60 was co-hosted by American Vogue editor
 Anna Wintour , screenwriter  Aaron Sorkin  and actresses  Anne Hathaway  and Joanne Woodward, according to Obama’s campaign.
Wintour, a top bundler for Obama, was co-host for another
fundraiser in New York in June.  The president is trying to narrow a money gap as Republican
 Mitt Romney  and party committees aligned with him have outraised
Obama and the Democrats for three consecutive months.  “On a whole host of issues, you’ve got very stark
differences,” Obama told a small group at Weinstein’s white,
colonial-style home abutting the Long Island Sound. “The good
news is that you guys are the tie-breaker. You and the American
people.”  Donors in the television, music and movie business have
given $3.2 million to Obama, compared with $483,112 to Romney,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics in Washington,
which tracks campaign finance.  The Right Thing  Weinstein introduced Obama, saying he has “led with his
heart to do the right thing.”  “This president has fought the good fight,” Weinstein
said, citing Obama’s success in killing  Osama Bin Laden  and
passing the 2010 health-care law.  Obama appeared at the star-studded event after speaking at
a fundraising reception about 15 miles away at the  Stamford 
Marriott. Tickets there for about 500 people started at $500 a
person.  At the first fundraiser, Obama told a crowded ballroom that
tax cuts for the wealthy are “the centerpiece” of Romney’s
economic plan.  “It’s like Robin Hood in reverse,” Obama said. “It’s
Romney Hood.”  Romney and other Republicans “have tried to sell us this
trickle-down, tax-cut fairy dust before and guess what: It does
not work,” Obama said.  “There’s only one candidate in this race who’s going to
raise taxes on the American people, and that’s  Barack Obama ,”
said  Ryan Williams , a Romney campaign spokesman, in a statement.
“While he’s used taxpayer dollars to grow government and reward
his donors, middle-class Americans have seen fewer jobs, lower
incomes and less hope for the future.”  Connecticut Officials  Senator  Richard Blumenthal  and Representatives Rosa DeLauro, Jim Himes and Chris Murphy also attended Obama’s
Stamford event. All are Connecticut Democrats and Murphy is
running for the Senate.  Connecticut Governor Dannel P. Malloy, a Democrat and
former Stamford mayor attended both events. This was Obama’s
fifth trip to Connecticut since taking office and his first this
year.  Figures released by both campaigns yesterday showed Romney
and the Republicans brought in more than $101.3 million in July,
and Obama and Democratic committees raised more than $75
million.  While Obama’s campaign committee has raised more money than
Romney’s committee, the former Massachusetts governor’s
fundraising edge in the last three months comes from the joint
committee that can take in much larger donations than the
individual campaigns.  Fundraising Comparison  Through June 30, the Obama campaign committee alone raised
more than $307 million and Romney’s committee raised more than
$156 million. July figures are due at the  Federal Election
Commission  by Aug. 20.  Romney spent yesterday meeting with senior staff at his
lakeside vacation home in Wolfeboro, New Hampshire, amid
mounting speculation over his vice presidential pick.  Photographers snapped pictures of Romney running errands,
stopping to buy groceries and what he described to reporters as
“hardware stuff.” He emerged from Hunters Shop ’n Save
carrying cases of  Diet Coke , Wild Cherry Diet Pepsi and Poland
Spring bottled water. When asked whether the beverages were for
meetings with potential vice presidential picks, Romney laughed
and said, “I’ve got some folks coming over.”  Romney is scheduled to campaign today in Elk Grove Village,
Illinois, and hold a fundraising event in Chicago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  