-- Wisconsin Sikh Shooting Suspect Formed Skinhead Bands
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s ,   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-08-07T14:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/wisconsin-sikh-shooting-probed-by-fbi-as-domestic-terror.html
Wade Michael Page, the man identified
as the gunman who killed six people in a Sikh temple near
 Milwaukee  before police shot him dead, was a former U.S. Army
serviceman and a member of several white-supremacist rock bands.  Page was identified by authorities yesterday as the slain
suspect in the shooting in Oak Creek,  Wisconsin . The 40-year-
old’s participation in bands with names that included Definite
Hate drew the notice of groups that monitor extremist activity.  Described as a “frustrated neo-Nazi,” Page started a
“racist white-power” band called  End Apathy  in 2005, according
to the Montgomery, Alabama-based  Southern Poverty Law Center ,
one of the monitoring organizations. It said it had been
tracking Page for a decade. The shootings are being treated as
an act of domestic terrorism by the FBI, unlike a mass murder by
a lone gunman in a  Colorado  movie theater last month.  “There’s a lot of sorrow, a lot of confusion” in the Sikh
community, said Swarnjit Arora, 71, who met with members of the
congregation after the Aug. 5 killings. He said he was one of
the first Sikhs to come to Milwaukee, in 1972.  “I’ve been here 40 years and had a most wonderful life in
Milwaukee,” Arora said. “People have been exceptionally kind
and sweet, they have great respect.”  Page, who had recently rented an apartment in nearby
Cudahy, served in the Army from 1992 to 1998. His duties
included repairing Hawk missile systems at  Fort Bliss , in  Texas ,
and psychological operations at Fort Bragg in  North Carolina ,
according to a defense official who asked for anonymity, saying
he wasn’t authorized to speak for the Army.  Domestic Terrorism  The FBI defines domestic terrorism as acts by U.S.-based
individuals or groups that involve violence against the populace
or government, without “foreign direction.”  While authorities said they believe Page was the lone
shooter, they also sought to question a white man wearing
sunglasses and a T-shirt who appeared at the scene about 12
miles (19 kilometers) south of Milwaukee, according to Teresa
Carlson, an FBI special agent in charge. Oak Creek Mayor Steve Scaffidi later told  CNN  that the man had been located,
questioned and cleared as a possible suspect.  ‘Growing Concern’  Several months before the shooting, more than 90 members of
Congress asked to have the FBI monitor hate crimes directed at
Sikh adherents. The lawmakers cited a “growing concern” in an
April 19 letter to Attorney General Eric Holder and FBI Director
 Robert Mueller . Sikh men often wear beards and turbans. Its
members are sometimes confused with Muslims.  Started 500 years ago in South Asia, the Sikh faith has
about 27 million followers, mostly in India, according to the
 Associated Press . It said the number of Sikhs in the U.S. is
estimated at about 500,000.  Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , a Sikh, said in a
statement he was “shocked and saddened” by the crime in
Wisconsin. India “stands in solidarity with all the peace-
loving Americans who have condemned this violence,” he said.  President  Barack Obama  said he and first lady  Michelle Obama  were “deeply saddened” by the shooting. The president
spoke by telephone with Scaffidi, Charanjeet Singh, a trustee of
the Sikh Temple, and Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , a
Republican.  Mitt Romney , the probable Republican nominee for
president, called the shooting “a senseless act of violence.”  The shooting prompted authorities to tighten security
around Sikh temples in  New York  as a “precaution,” according
to a statement from the city. Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , the
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, and Police
Commissioner Raymond Kelly visited a Sikh cultural center in
Queens yesterday.  $66,000 Income  Oak Creek is a city of about 34,000, with a median
 household income  averaging more than $66,000 a year in 2006 to
2010, almost 29 percent more than the statewide figure,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau. About 6.7 percent live in
poverty, compared with almost 12 percent statewide.  Several children saw the gunman firing and alerted women
who were cooking a meal to follow the 11:30 a.m. service, Arora
said. Some hid in a pantry and were unharmed, he said.  If the gunman had arrived an hour later, when the service
was to begin, as many as 300 people would have been present,
said Arora, who teaches econometrics at the  University of
Wisconsin-Milwaukee . He said about 1,500 Sikh families live in
the area and attend two temples, the other one in Brookfield.  Legal Weapon  The shooter’s weapon, a legally purchased 9mm pistol, was
recovered at the scene, according to Bernard Zapor, special
agent in charge of the  St. Paul , Minnesota, field division of
the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.  Page bought the gun July 28 at Shooters Shop in West Allis,
Wisconsin, about 12 miles from his home, and picked it up July
30, according to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, which cited
unnamed people familiar with the investigation.  Store manager Eric Grabowski said he didn’t recognize a
photograph of Page and didn’t recall him visiting the shop,
which has a basement firing range. He called ATF officials who
told him they couldn’t discuss a case under active
investigation, he said.  The store gets about 1,000 customers a week, he said. He
hadn’t checked the records to see if and when the purchase was
made. Sales are logged by a number linked to when the shop
acquired the gun, not the date of purchase, he said.  Three injured men, including police Officer Brian Murphy,
51, were treated at  Froedtert Hospital  in Milwaukee. Murphy was
resting with his family after surgery. He and the other two
wounded men remained in critical condition, hospital officials
said yesterday. One of those killed was Satwant Kaleka, the
temple president.  Aurora Shooting  Less than a month earlier near Denver, a masked gunman
opened fire at a midnight showing of “The Dark Knight Rises”
in a suburban Aurora theater, killing 12 and injuring 58. James
Holmes, a former graduate student in neuroscience at the
 University of Colorado  in Denver, faces multiple murder charges.  While in the service, Page was awarded two Good Conduct
citations and a Humanitarian Service medal, according to Army
records. Paul Prince, an Army spokesman, said Page was
“administratively discharged” in 1998. Oak Creek Police Chief
 John Edwards  told reporters the suspect was “ineligible for re-
enlistment.”  In 2000, Page rode his motorcycle away from his home in
Colorado and  became involved  with white-supremacist hate groups,
including racist skinhead bands, said Heidi Beirich, director of
the intelligence project at the law center.  ‘Tyranny and Hypocrisy’  End Apathy’s topics “vary from sociological issues,
religion, and how the value of human life has been degraded by
being submissive to tyranny and hypocrisy that we are subjugated
to,” Page said during a 2010 interview with Label56, which the
law center said is a white-supremacist website. The center said
Label56 also produces records and distributed recordings by
Page’s bands.  Page also described himself as a member of “Hammerskins
Nation,” a skinhead group rooted in Texas that has branches in
Australia and Canada, the AP reported, citing the SITE
Monitoring Service, a Maryland-based firm that tracks extremist
activity online.  He pleaded guilty to criminal mischief in Houston in 1994,
was sentenced to 180 days of probation and had a 90-day jail
sentence suspended, according to court records. The records
didn’t provide details.  In Wisconsin, Page lived on the second floor of a gray
duplex on a quiet tree-lined Cudahy street of mostly single-
family homes about 5.4 miles from the temple.  “He seemed normal,” said Peter Hoyt, 53, who lived a
block away from Page and would talk with him as Page sat on the
porch. “He was real laid back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  