-- With $2,000 Bikes, Tech Firms Flee Suburbs for City Homes
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-08-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/with-2-000-bikes-tech-firms-flee-suburbs-for-city-homes.html
The artfully disheveled office of
architect Primo Orpilla sits in  San Francisco ’s South of Market
neighborhood, where worn industrial buildings command
stratospheric real-estate valuations because they’re popular
with the geek crowd.  Orpilla and his wife, Verda Alexander, run  Studio O+A ,
which claims many of the high-tech companies moving into SOMA as
clients. The architectural firm has caught the wave hitting San
Francisco, long a laggard while suburban Silicon Valley
dominated as home to technology companies.  “Tons of companies we’ve worked with, like  Box.com  and
 Samsung (005930) , have shed the Silicon Valley esthetic,” said Orpilla.
“In San Francisco you can walk out the door to your favorite
coffee shop and work comfortably there.”  In the dizzy days of the dot-com bubble,  sports cars 
emblazoned with Starship Academy stickers were the emblems of
geek chic. Now, Orpilla says, it’s the one-speed bicycle known
as a fixie that can cost as much as $2,000.  Software companies and app makers tap into the creative-
industry energy of cities, where the talent they seek
increasingly wants to live.  Consumer-review website  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  is moving into seven
floors that Studio O+A designed in a 1940s SOMA building once
occupied by an electric utility. The remodeled space will be
“almost industrial, almost raw,” Orpilla said, a design-firm
aesthetic that appeals to media-savvy tech companies.
Twitter Inc. and  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  have snapped up swaths of space
in SOMA.  Brick Warehouse  Google Inc. (GOOG)  paid $1.9 billion for a block-long 1932 brick
warehouse in New York City, far from suburban office parks and
sleek midtown towers. It’s the company’s largest facility
outside the  Mountain View  headquarters, south of San Francisco.
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  is growing at the edge of downtown  Seattle .
Research-driven companies crowd Cambridge, next to  Boston ,
rather than spreading out along beltways.  In San Francisco, old industrial buildings with charmingly
rusted fittings and steel windows that open have filled the bill
but they are now scarce.  “These companies need to scale up in chunks of from
200,000 to as much as a million square feet,” Orpilla said.
“Spaces that size exist in the valley but are hard to find in
the city.”  Headquarters Site  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , the biggest provider of online
customer-management software, paid $278 million for a
headquarters site on 14 acres close to SOMA. The Mexico City
architecture firm Legorreta + Legorreta designed a 1.2-million-
square-foot campus, featuring broad porches and shaded public
courtyards opening to San Francisco Bay.  The company canceled the plan to build at the end of
February, only four months after the land purchase, saying it
needed to lease space fast rather than wait for the
headquarters.  Skyscrapers would be the obvious solution since they were
invented to house lots of people on scarce urban land. Agile,
fast-growing companies don’t like today’s skyscrapers. They are
looking for artisanal food and an informal, sociable workplace,
not grand lobbies, endless rows of cubicles and wood-paneled
smugness.  Silicon Valley is growing fast, too, and wants to bring
urban amenities to the suburbs. In  Menlo Park , the San
Francisco-based architecture firm Gensler is refitting an
isolated, dot-com-era complex of boxy pastel buildings for
Facebook.  “We’re creating an astonishing variety of social spaces
inside the buildings that take their cues from urban places,”
said Randy Howder, Gensler’s lead workplace strategist.  Green Features  Google has promised to build a headquarters with advanced
green features amid the dozens of buildings it leases in
Mountain View. But the setting, cut off from transit and urban
amenities, can’t duplicate the vibe of its  New York City 
location.  Google has started and stopped the project, and won’t
comment on its current status.  The London architect Foster & Partners, a pioneer in low-
energy design, has fitted out Apple’s proposed flying-saucer
headquarters in Cupertino with rooftop solar panels. This
greenwash comes with a wall of parking along the Interstate 280
freeway for 10,000 cars. It’s not fixie-friendly.  The siren song of downtown lures 21st-century business, but
cities haven’t yet figured out how to meld suburban advantages
with urban energy. It’s time some savvy designers and companies
reinvented both the skyscraper and the office park.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 