-- Yen Stays Stronger Before BOJ Meeting; Aussie Near 4-Mont
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-08-07T07:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/yen-stays-stronger-before-boj-meeting-aussie-near-4-month-high.html
The yen was 0.5 percent from a two-
month high against the dollar as a rally in stocks around the
world spurred speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will refrain from
additional monetary easing at a policy meeting this week.  The euro was 0.4 percent from the strongest in a month
versus the greenback after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government backed the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying plan.
Australia’s dollar appreciated to a four-month high after the
nation’s central bank kept  interest rates  at 3.5 percent at a
policy meeting today.  “The Bank of  Japan  looks set to keep policy unchanged,”
said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of  New Zealand  in
Wellington. “Without any impediment from the Bank of Japan,
we’ll see more of the same, that gradual grind lower in the next
few sessions and coming months for dollar-yen.”  The yen was little changed at 78.27 per dollar at 8:06 a.m.
in London after rising to 77.91 on Aug. 1, the strongest since
June 1. Japan’s currency fell 0.1 percent to 97.17 per euro. The
euro was little changed at $1.2407 after rising to $1.2444
yesterday, the highest level since July 5.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares gained 0.6 percent,
after the MSCI  World Index (MXWO)  rose 0.7 percent yesterday.  The BOJ probably won’t change its view that Japan’s economy
is picking up moderately, the Nikkei newspaper reported, without
saying where it got the information. All 17 economists in a
Bloomberg survey forecast the central bank will keep its
benchmark overnight target rate at 0.1 percent at its two-day
meeting starting tomorrow.  New Members  This will be the first central bank meeting with new board
members Takahide Kiuchi and Takehiro Sato, who have both
signaled willingness to consider fresh forms of easing.  The two “are known to be sympathetic to more
unconventional easing, but like the RBA, a ‘wait and see’ stance
by the BOJ is more likely now,” according to a research note
from Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. analysts, including New York-
based Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters in Tokyo that
Japan will extend a facility to counter yen gains through fiscal
year 2012. The  International Monetary Fund  said last week the
currency is “moderately overvalued.”  Government data in February showed Japan last year carried
out so-called stealth intervention, where officials refrain from
confirming yen sales on the day they were executed. The nation
sold 1.02 trillion yen against the dollar on the first four days
of November in addition to 8.07 trillion yen on Oct. 31, the
data showed.  ‘Some Risks’  “There are some risks of currency intervention if the yen
strengthens beyond 78 per dollar, and that’s keeping the
currency on the back foot,” said  Daisaku Ueno , a senior
currency and debt strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The government and the BOJ carried
out stealth intervention last year around that level, and global
opposition against currency intervention has eased somewhat.”  The yen has appreciated 3.7 percent in the past three
months among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has fallen 4.3 percent,
and the dollar has gained 1.3 percent.  Demand for the euro was supported after Merkel’s government
backed ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s proposals on bond buying to
help bring down borrowing costs in Spain and Italy. Germany is
“not worried” by Draghi’s announcement of Aug. 2, deputy
Merkel spokesman Georg Streiter told reporters in Berlin
yesterday, when asked whether the government is concerned the
ECB’s independence may be compromised.  Bailout Fund  Draghi outlined a plan last week under which the ECB may
buy debt of struggling euro-bloc countries in tandem with the
euro area’s bailout fund, while saying the details still need to
be worked out over the coming weeks.  “The fact that the German spokesperson made an official
statement for the first time about the country’s backing of
ECB’s bond purchases is supporting the euro,” said Ken Takahashi, assistant vice president of global markets at
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd. in New York. “The market is
reassessing the ECB’s decision from last week and taking a more
positive view on it.”  Italy’s Monti said disagreements within the euro area were
detracting from the policy response to the debt crisis,
according to an interview with Germany’s Der Spiegel magazine
published Aug. 5.  Australia ’s dollar climbed to the strongest since March
after the  Reserve Bank  said current policy settings were
“appropriate.”  The so-called Aussie rose against most of its major
counterparts after RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board said
in a statement the nation’s growth was close to trend.  “The RBA hasn’t really set out a case for lowering
interest rates, so I suspect that’s probably maybe a surprise to
the markets,” said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific
research at TD Securities in Singapore. The overall statement
“seemed to be quite bullish for the Aussie dollar.”  Australia’s dollar rose 0.2 percent to $1.0587 after
reaching $1.0603, the strongest level since March 20.  -- With assistance from Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh,  Kazumi
Miura  in Tokyo and Mika Otsuka in New York. Editors: Naoto
Hosoda, Nicholas Reynolds  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  