-- Tyson Gay Weeps After Ending World’s Fastest Race Without Medal
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e ,   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-08-06T03:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/tyson-gay-weeps-after-ending-world-s-fastest-race-without-medal.html
Tyson Gay, the fastest man in U.S.
history, broke down in tears as he left the track at  London ’s
Olympic Stadium without a medal hanging around his neck.  “I tried my best and came up short,” the 29-year-old
sprinter said to reporters after placing fourth in yesterday’s
100-meter final with a season-best time of 9.80 seconds. “I
gave it my best shot, there’s nothing else I can do.”  Usain Bolt set an Olympic record of 9.63 seconds -- the
second-fastest time in history -- to defend his title, while
Jamaican teammate Yohan Blake took the silver medal with a
personal-best time of 9.75 seconds. Justin Gatlin of the U.S.,
who missed the 2008 Beijing Olympics while serving a four-year
doping ban, also set a personal best of 9.79 seconds and beat
Gay to the finish by one-hundredth of a second.  Gay stood with his hands clasped around the back of his
head sobbing and sniffing as he attempted to answer questions
from journalists after another Olympic disappointment.  “I feel good, my body is healthy,” Gay said. “I just
feel like I let a lot of people down.”  Four years ago, Gay hurt his hamstring running the 200
meters at the U.S. team trials before the Beijing Games and was
eliminated in the 100-meter semifinal heats in  China . Gay and
teammate Darvis Patton also mishandled a baton exchange in the
heats of the 400-meter relay.  U.S. Trials  A month earlier he had won the 100 in the U.S. trials in a
wind-assisted 9.68 seconds. Gay’s fastest official time is 9.69
seconds, an American record that’s only been bettered by Bolt,
who joins  Carl Lewis  as the only men to win back-to-back Olympic
100-meter titles.  Gay’s preparation for the London Games was limited because
of hip surgery that prevented him from running on the track
until March. He didn’t run a competitive race until June, yet
finished second to Gatlin at the U.S. team trials in July with a
time of 9.86.  “I knew it was going to be hard for Tyson this season,”
Bolt said in a press conference after last night’s final. “For
him to even come out and make the finals is big step, what a
fighter he is,”  Yesterday’s race was the fastest 100-meter final in Olympic
history, with seven of the eight runners completing the race in
under 10 seconds. It might have been a clean sweep had Jamaica’s
Asafa Powell, 29, not pulled up with an injury in the latter
part of the race and finished in 11.99 seconds.  No Medal  While Bolt pulled away for the victory, Gay’s run for a
medal came up short by the smallest margin possible. Gatlin’s
time was also the fastest ever by an American at the Olympics,
according to USA Track and Field.  “The journey of an athlete is very difficult,” Sanya Richards-Ross, the U.S. winner of the 400-meter race, told
reporters. “I have a really strong connection with Tyson and so
I know it’s been tough for him to come back.”  Gay turns 30 on Aug. 9, one day before he’ll next run for
the U.S. team in the 400-meter relay. If he doesn’t get a medal
in that race, there’s no guarantee he’ll be competing at age 34
at the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.  “Tyson has been one of the best in the world for some
time,” former Olympic 100-meter champion Maurice Greene of the
U.S. said in an interview. “To go through a career and not win
a medal is tough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane at London’s Olympic Stadium on  at  cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
 Tariq Panja  at London’s Olympic Stadium on 
at  tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny at London’s Olympic Stadium on 
at  tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net . 