-- Zambia Commodities Exchange to Restart Trading This Year
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-08-06T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/zambia-commodities-exchange-to-restart-trading-this-year.html
The Zambian Agricultural Commodities
Exchange, which halted operations in July last year, plans to
resume trading by the end of the year, executive director Brian Tembo said.  The bourse, known as  Zamace , hopes to sign a preliminary
agreement this week with Zambia’s Lloyds Financials Ltd. for the
lender to take a 10 percent stake in the agricultural exchange,
Tembo said by phone from Lusaka, the capital, yesterday. The
 Zambia National Farmers Union , which represents growers, may buy
as much as 20 percent of Zamace, he said. Delays in regulatory
changes caused Zamace to miss its previous target to resume
trading by May, Tembo said.  “We certainly are hoping by October or November we should
be up and running again,” Lusaka-based Lloyds Financials
chairman Lloyd Chingambo said by phone from the capital. Local
farmers begin harvesting wheat from the end of next month to
about October, and Zamace plans to be available to trade the
crop, Tembo said.  The  World Bank  in May criticized Zambia, southern  Africa ’s
biggest corn producer after  South Africa  and Malawi, for
subsidizing production of the grain. The state-controlled Food
Reserve Agency’s practice of selling corn for less than it buys
it for is “clearly distortive”, Zamace said in a January
submission to parliament, urging the government to allow for
prices to be set on the commodities exchange.  Corn has advanced about 23 percent this year in  Chicago  as
the U.S., the biggest producer, suffers its worst drought in
more than half a century. It traded as high as $8.2025 per
bushel on July 31.  Zamace is also in talks with a “multinational entity”
involved in agribusiness and hospitality to take up a
shareholding in the bourse, Tembo said, declining to identify
the company as the talks are confidential.  Prior to its closure Zamace traded wheat, white and yellow
corn, corn meal, soy beans and soy oil, pulses, cotton seeds,
beans, cement, urea and di-ammonium phosphate fertilizer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  