-- Zimbabwe Exported 7.15 Million Carats of Diamonds Last Year
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2012-08-06T13:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/zimbabwe-exported-7-15-million-carats-of-diamonds-last-year.html
Zimbabwe exported 7.15 million carats
of diamonds in 2011 through 148  Kimberley Process  certificates
as restrictions on exports from the Marange area curbed sales.  The Kimberley Process canceled 44 certificates in the year,
the organization, which monitors trade in diamonds, said in its
annual  country report . Zimbabwe’s military and police have been
accused of human rights violations in the Marange fields.  “The year 2011 remained a difficult year for rough diamond
exports from Zimbabwe due to protracted restrictions on exports
produced from the Marange area, leading to the cancellation of
many certificates,” according to a statement from the process.  Access to Marange is controlled by Zimbabwe security forces
and data rarely released. Several closely held mining companies
from  South Africa , China and Dubai dig diamonds in the area in
joint ventures with state-run Zimbabwe Mining Development Corp.  The U.S., European Union, Australia and  New Zealand  have
imposed trade restrictions on Zimbabwean companies including
ZMDC over accusations of human rights abuses by President  Robert Mugabe ’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front party.  New York-based  Human Rights Watch  in 2008 said at least 200
people were killed by security forces in Marange in an operation
to remove illegal miners. The Marange diamond fields were seized
from U.K.-based African Consolidated Resources Plc in 2006.  The fields were then divided between Mbada Mining (Pvt)
Ltd., Canadile Mining (Pvt) Ltd. and China’s Anjin.  Rio Tinto Plc’s Murowa mine and closely held River Ranch
Mine (Pvt) Ltd. in Zimbabwe aren’t subject to Kimberley Process
scrutiny because accusations haven’t been made against them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at  in Harare
at   blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 