-- Zimmer Wins Genzyme Trial Over Knee-Arthritis Treatment
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-08-06T20:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-06/zimmer-wins-genzyme-patent-trial-over-knee-arthritis-treatment.html
Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  and  Seikagaku
Corp. (4548)  won a U.S. patent-infringement trial brought by  Sanofi’s (SAN) 
Genzyme over a treatment for arthritis in the knee.  A federal jury in Boston said Aug. 3 the Gel-One product
made by Tokyo-based Seikagaku and distributed by Zimmer doesn’t
infringe a Genzyme patent for a method to treat arthritic pain
in the knee. The jury also said that the patent is invalid
because it covered obvious variations of earlier work.  Genzyme’s Synvisc-One product was the only single-injection
treatment approved by U.S. regulators until Gel-One was given
clearance in March 2011, according to the complaint filed a
month after the approval was granted. The injection of a
hyaluronic acid gel provides pain relief for as long as six
months, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme said.  U.S. District Judge Douglas Woodlock on Dec. 30 issued an
order preventing Warsaw, Indiana-based Zimmer from selling Gel-
One at a price less than $547.60 per injection or giving out
free samples, so it didn’t undercut the price of Synvisc-One.
The judge vacated that order following the jury verdict.  Synvisc and Gel-One use different compositions of the
hyaluronic acid, and the patent covers a way of providing the
treatment through a single injection rather than multiple
injections over a period of time, said Sarah Columbia of
 McDermott Will & Emery  in Boston, who represented Zimmer and
Seikagaku.  Synvisc and Synvisc-One generated 184 million euros ($228
million) in the first half of the year for Sanofi. Sales were up
8.9 percent over the year-earlier period, the Paris-based
company said July 26. Zimmer doesn’t break out sales of Gel-One.  Zimmer rose 76 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $59.78 at 4:02
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Sanofi
American depositary receipts, two of which represent one
ordinary share, rose 5 cents to $41.61.  The case is Genzyme Corp. v. Seikagaku Corp., 11cv10636,
U.S. District Court for the District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  