-- Aldar Profit More Than Doubles on Deliveries, Land Sales
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-04-28T08:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/aldar-profit-more-than-doubles-on-deliveries-land-sales-1-.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , the Abu
Dhabi developer bailed out by the government last year, said
first-quarter profit more than doubled as the company delivered
more residential units and boosted revenue from land sales.  Net income climbed to 478.2 million dirhams ($130 million)
from 189.1 million dirhams, the company said in an e-mailed
statement today. First-quarter revenue surged to 3.59 billion
dirhams from 784.7 million dirhams in the year-earlier period,
the developer said.  Aldar, which is building thousands of homes and offices in
Abu Dhabi, received 36 billion dirhams in government support in
2011 after the emirate’s property market slumped. The company
and smaller rival  Sorouh Real Estate Co. (SOROUH)  are exploring a merger
with the support of  Abu Dhabi ’s government, which owns stakes in
both. Property prices in the emirate slid by 50 percent after
the global credit crisis caused banks to tighten lending and
speculative buyers fled the market.  The developer recognized 3.23 billion dirhams in the first
quarter “from the sale of land plots and completed residential
units and development management fees,” according the company
statement. Of this, 2.2 billion dirhams was related to sale
contracts signed in 2011 with the government of Abu Dhabi and
related entities, it said.  Al Raha Units  “These results reflect the significant deliveries of
residential units and land plots at Al Raha Beach that began in
the quarter and will continue through the year, supported by
strong recurring revenues from our operating businesses,”
Chairman Ali Eid Al Muheiri said in the statement.  Aldar handed over 606 residential units at Al Raha Beach
and seven at Al Gurm during the first quarter, according to the
company statement. First-quarter recurring revenue increased 15
percent to 360.1 million dirhams.  The company’s operational businesses, which includes
schools and hotels, had revenue of 148.6 million dirhams in the
first quarter compared with 137.9 million dirhams in the year-
earlier period. Rental income from investment properties
increased to 150.8 million dirhams from 123.3 million dirhams.  Aldar plans to tap the  debt market  this year to finance new
projects, deputy Chief Executive Officer Mohammed Al Mubarak
said this month. On April 17, the developer said it raised a 4
billion-dirham revolving credit facility from  National Bank of
Abu Dhabi PJSC .  After the company received the loan, Standard and Poor’s
raised Aldar’s credit rating to B+, the fourth-highest non-
investment grade, from B.  The shares dropped  1.7 percent  to 1.13 dirhams in Abu Dhabi
on April 26. They have jumped 23 percent percent so far this
year, giving the company a market value of 4.6 billion dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  