-- Maruti Suzuki Profit Beats Estimate on Record Car Sales
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-04-28T12:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/maruti-suzuki-profit-beats-estimate-on-record-car-sales.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , India’s
biggest carmaker, reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates
as a revival in demand in  Asia ’s third-biggest automobile market
led to record sales.  Fourth-quarter  net income  at  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) ’s Indian
unit declined 3 percent to 6.4 billion rupees ($122 million)
from 6.6 billion rupees a year earlier, the New Delhi-based
company said in a statement today. That exceeded the 5.56
billion-rupee median of 43  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Shinzo Nakanishi is adding new
models and expanding diesel engine capacity as demand shifts to
cars that run on the fuel, which is cheaper than gasoline in
India. The automaker, which introduced its Ertiga van this
month, may earn higher margins from the vehicle as it shares a
platform and components with Swift and Dzire models, according
to Umesh Karne, an analyst at Brics Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.  “Record sales are propelling profit at Maruti as demand
increases for higher margin products such as the Swift and also
for more expensive diesel models,” said Karne. “We see a slow
and steady increase in demand as  interest rates  come down and
consumer sentiment improves.”  Sales rose 17 percent to 114.9 billion rupees, according to
the statement. That compares with the 118.1 billion-rupee median
of 43 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The automaker
expects deliveries to rise by as much as 12 percent in the year
started in April, Mayank Pareek, Maruti’s head of sales, told
reporters in New Delhi today.  Special Trading  Maruti  rose  1 percent to 1,397.45 rupees at the close of a
special trading session in Mumbai today, before the earnings
were released. The stock has increased 52 percent this year,
compared with the benchmark Sensitive Index’s 11 percent gain.  The automaker, 54 percent  owned  by Suzuki Motor, sold
360,334 vehicles in the quarter, with sales reaching a record in
March, Maruti said. Raw material costs increased 18 percent to
88.7 billion rupees, according to the statement.  Industrywide car sales rose to records in January, February
and March, after sales had declined 2.3 percent in the nine
months ended in December from a year earlier, according to the
 Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  Maruti’s sales in the nine-month period ended Dec. 31
declined 17 percent because a labor dispute at its Manesar
factory resulted in an output loss.  Rate Cut  The central bank cut its key interest rate this month for
the first time since 2009, seeking to bolster an economy the
government estimates expanded 6.9 percent in the 12 months
through March, the least in three years.  “Interest rate softening is a positive for the consumer
sentiment,” Ajay Seth, chief financial officer of Maruti, told
reporters. “But the rise in fuel prices remains a concern.”  The end of government controls sent gasoline prices to a
record, prompting more car buyers to opt for vehicles that run
on diesel.  India ’s fuel pricing policy has widened the gap
between diesel and gasoline prices to 60 percent from 28 percent
in June 2010. India subsidizes diesel, which is used by freight
companies and accounts for a higher weight in the inflation
index.  Maruti’s  sales  of diesel vehicles jumped 37 percent in the
fourth quarter, while demand for gasoline-powered cars declined
by 14 percent, Seth said. The automaker aims to increase diesel
engine capacity to 400,000 units annually this fiscal year from
250,000, Nakanishi said in a conference call after the earnings.  The company plans to spend 17 billion rupees to set up a
new diesel-engine factory that will be ready by 2014. The plant,
near  New Delhi , will have a capacity to produce as many as
300,000 engines a year, Seth said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  