-- BOX Options Gets SEC Approval to Run U.S. Market as Own Exchange
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-04-28T00:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/box-options-gets-sec-approval-to-run-u-s-market-as-own-exchange.html
BOX Options Exchange LLC, owned by
the Toronto Stock Exchange operator and seven brokers including
Citadel LLC and  Interactive Brokers Group Inc. (IBKR) , won approval
today to become a U.S. securities exchange.  TMX Group Inc. (X) , which owns 53.8 percent of parent company
BOX Holdings Group LLC, will limit its equity stake in the self-
regulatory organization, the entity registered with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that will operate the market,
to 40 percent and its voting share to 20 percent, according to
the  document . Interactive Brokers will have 20 percent of BOX
Holdings. Citadel, Citigroup Inc., UBS AG and Credit Suisse
Group AG will each own between 3.99 percent and 4.2 percent.  BOX, introduced in 2004, currently uses the exchange
license of Nasdaq OMX BX, owned by New York-based  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ) , to run its options market. The company has been
seeking its own license since at least 2008, according to Chief
Executive Officer Anthony McCormick. An obstacle was the large
ownership stake of Toronto-based TMX Group, because regulators
don’t want SROs to be more than 40 percent-owned by another
exchange, he said in a phone interview in February. The approved
corporate arrangement addresses that concern, he said.  “It will be very nice to have a medallion,” McCormick
said by phone today. “We’ll be able to file for our own
products and contracts now and hopefully there will be some
operating efficiencies from not having a vendor contract
relationship. We also won’t be regulated by a competitor any
longer.”  McCormick said the Boston-based electronic venue will shift
to using its own exchange license in mid-May.  Options Share  BOX accounted for 4 percent of trading in U.S. options on
stocks and exchange-traded funds last month, according to data
from Chicago-based OCC, which clears and settles all
transactions on U.S. venues. Nasdaq OMX PHLX is the largest for
those products, with 22.3 percent last month, the OCC data show.
The  Chicago Board Options Exchange  is the biggest single market
for all options products including index contracts. It had 27
percent of total volume in March.  There are nine U.S. options exchanges. Nasdaq OMX plans to
use the license BOX surrenders for its third equity derivatives
market, according to a  notice  on the company’s website. Nasdaq
OMX BX Options, which will be the 10th exchange, will begin
trading at the end of June, the notice said. The exchange has
not yet published its proposed rules, which will require SEC
approval before it can start.  Electronic Exchange  The  International Securities Exchange , the first fully
electronic options exchange in the U.S., is also considering
plans for another venue. Chief Executive Officer Gary Katz said
in an interview on March 13 that the New York-based exchange
wants to offer a second market that provides new ways to attract
order flow “by combining market structures and pricing
structures.”  Molly McGregor, a spokeswoman for ISE, said in an e-mail
today that the company is hoping to introduce its second
exchange by the end of 2012.  ISE is the only major U.S. options market operator with a
single exchange.  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  in  Chicago , Nasdaq OMX and
New York-based  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  each run two exchanges that trade
options. There are 13 U.S. equity exchanges.  Miami International Holdings Inc. plans to add its own
options venue, Shelly Brown, a senior vice president at the
Princeton, New Jersey-based firm, said last year. The market is
planned for this year, he said.  Parent Company  BOX Holdings Group will own and operate the options trading
platform instead of the current BOX Options Exchange Group LLC,
according to the SEC document. A board of mainly independent
directors will be named for the BOX self-regulatory
organization. These include Paul Stevens, former president of
OCC; Laurence Mollner, who served as chairman of the Futures
Industry Association in the mid-1990s; Robert Whaley, a
professor at  Vanderbilt University , TMX Group CEO  Thomas Kloet 
and Jim Boyle of UBS, McCormick said.  BOX’s current board will vote on the exchange’s directors
next week and the group will be in place by May 10, McCormick
said.  While BOX may consider an initial public offering of stock
or sale “down the road,” that’s not currently in its plans,
McCormick said in a phone interview in February. The company
isn’t likely to introduce an equities exchange once it gets its
license, he said.  BOX pioneered  price-improvement auctions  in 2004 to allow
orders from customers to seek executions at higher levels than
the best nationally available bid and lower than the best offer
among venues. Most options exchanges followed BOX over the years
with similar auction mechanisms.  The price-improvement auction on BOX has saved customers
$367 million since it began in 2004, McCormick told the SEC in a
 letter  dated Dec. 9. He said he hoped to boost BOX’s share of
equity options to at least 4.5 percent by the end of 2011.  “We want to operate an exchange that handles options on
stocks and” exchange-traded funds, he said. “We’re interested
in servicing the retail sector and giving retail customers
greater price improvement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 