-- Canada Dollar Tops Majors on Wagers Borrowing Costs Will Rise
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-04-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/canada-dollar-tops-majors-on-wagers-borrowing-costs-will-rise.html
Canada ’s dollar appreciated versus
all of its major counterparts except for the yen this week on
speculation borrowing costs will rise this year as the nation’s
economy gathers momentum.  The currency posted its largest weekly gain this year
against the  U.S. dollar  as odds climbed to more than 80 percent
the central bank will raise its key lending rate by October,
adding to the Canadian dollar’s allure as other developed-nation
central banks increase stimulus. Canada’s economic expansion
quickened in February, economists predict an April 30 report
will show.  “It’s been pretty clear at the  Bank of Canada  that if
things progress even at a reasonable pace, they would consider
increasing rates a small amount, which is at odds with what
you’re seeing around the rest of the world,” said Tom Levinson,
a currency strategist in  London  at ING Groep NV, in a telephone
interview. “We like the Canadian dollar, certainly against
currencies like the Australian dollar.”  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the aquatic bird on
the C$1 coin, touched 98 cents per U.S. dollar yesterday in
Toronto, the strongest since Sept. 19, and ended the day at
98.04 cents, up 1.2 percent for the week. That was the biggest
gain since the five days through Dec. 23. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0199.  Government bonds  fell this week, pushing the yield on the
benchmark  two-year note  higher by seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.42 percent. The 0.75 percent securities
maturing in May 2014 declined 12 cents to C$98.68.  Yield Spread  Federal bonds have lost 0.7 percent this year, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  The  spread  between two-year Canadian and U.S. two-year
government debt widened to 117 basis points yesterday, the
biggest gap since January 2011 on speculation central bank
Governor  Mark Carney  is preparing to raise borrowing costs this
year to counter  inflation  that’s rising faster than the Bank of
Canada previously predicted.  Carney reiterated the bank’s forecast that the Canadian
economy will grow 2.4 percent this year. Carney gave the
forecast in a presentation yesterday in Ottawa. He said earlier
this week in an appearance before lawmakers that interest rate
increases may be necessary to counter rising inflation.  The probability of higher borrowing costs by the central
bank’s October meeting rose to about 85 percent yesterday,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on overnight index
swaps. Odds were 19 percent on April 16, the day before policy
makers suggested rates would rise sooner than economists
expected as slack in the economy evaporates.  ‘Policy Conundrum’  “The pressure for the Bank of Canada to eventually raise
rates can only grow,” amid a U.S. recovery and a central bank
on “permanent hold,” said Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange
research at Societe Generale SA, by phone from London. “The
policy conundrum is going to get bigger not smaller.”  Canada’s gross domestic  product  expanded 0.2 percent in
February, compared with 0.1 percent in the previous month,
according to the median of 24 projections compiled by Bloomberg.
 Statistics Canada  is due to release the report at 8:30 a.m.
Ottawa time in two days.  The world’s 10th largest economy will grow at a 2.5 percent
annualized pace this quarter, up from a January estimate of 1.8
percent, the Bank of Canada said in an April 18 quarterly policy
report. Inflation will average 2 percent through June, higher
than a previous estimate of 1.5 percent.  Crude Oil  GDP, the value of all goods and services produced in the
U.S., rose at a 2.2 percent annual rate after a 3 percent pace,
Commerce Department figures showed yesterday. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a
2.5 percent rise.  Carney said yesterday in Ottawa that borrowing costs in
Canada are “exceptionally low” and high consumer debt in the
nation “calls for prudence.”  Futures on  crude oil , Canada’s biggest export, increased
1.7 percent this week to $104.76 barrel. Copper futures climbed
3.8 percent to $3.8340 a pound in  New York .  Raw materials 
account for about half of Canada’s export revenue.  The Canadian dollar rose 1.9 percent during the past three
months in the second-best performance among the 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The biggest gainer was the British pound, up
3.2 percent.  The loonie, which traded as low as C$1.0319 in January,
will weaken to parity with its U.S. counterpart by the end of
June before strengthening to 98 cents at year-end, according to
the median of 40 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  