-- China to Boost Channels for Capital Outflows, Central Bank Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-28T09:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/china-to-boost-channels-for-capital-outflows-central-bank-says.html
China  will widen channels for
capital outflows and work toward making the yuan convertible on
the capital account, according to a summary of a central bank
report posted on the website of its Shanghai branch.  The nation will also increase the yuan’s role in cross-
border trade and investment, according to a three-paragraph
 summary  today of the People’s Bank of China’s annual report on
international financial markets. The report forecast the global
economy will recover slowly this year and that  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis is the biggest uncertainty.  China is loosening controls on capital flows and boosting
the use of the yuan overseas to help rebalance the nation’s
economy, slow growth in its foreign-exchange holdings and
develop an alternative to the  U.S. dollar  as a  reserve currency .
The central bank widened the yuan’s trading band for the first
time since 2007 this month, a step toward improving the
exchange-rate’s flexibility and addressing complaints from
trading partners that it’s controlling the pace of yuan gains.  The full report couldn’t be found on the People’s Bank of
China website and calls to the central bank in Beijing today
weren’t answered.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves have doubled over the
past four years, reaching a world record $3.3 trillion at the
end of March, central bank data show. The increase, mainly due
to the  trade surplus , has prompted countries including the U.S.
and European Union to accuse the nation of keeping the yuan
undervalued, giving exporters an unfair advantage.  Loosening Controls  The yuan is only convertible on the current account for
trade purposes. The government still controls transactions on
the capital account for investment purposes including foreign
direct investment and securities transactions.  Steps toward loosening controls on the capital account have
included allowing foreign investment in yuan raised offshore and
permitting Chinese companies to buy assets overseas using the
local currency.  China last month chose the eastern city of Wenzhou to
start a trial to relax controls on capital outflows that
included allowing residents to make direct investments abroad.
The central bank this month said it will set up a cross-border
payment system within two years to boost use of the yuan in
international trade and investment.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  