-- Cyprus Names Central Bank Chief Who Called for German Euro Exit
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-04-28T09:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/cyprus-names-central-bank-chief-who-called-for-german-euro-exit.html
Cyprus named Panicos Demetriades as
its  central bank  governor, an economist who called for  Germany 
to ditch the euro.  Demetriades will succeed  Athanasios Orphanides  as head of
the Central Bank of Cyprus on May 3, government spokesman
 Stefanos Stefanou  told reporters in Nicosia today. Because
Cyprus is part of the 17-nation euro area, Demetriades will join
the European Central Bank’s Governing Council for his five-year
term and help set  interest rates  for the region.  Demetriades inherits an economy in turmoil, with banks
reeling from losses on their exposure to  Greece  and the
government unable to borrow on financial markets. Orphanides, a
policy maker with 17 years’ experience at the U.S. Federal
Reserve, failed to win a second term in office after clashing
with the island’s government over fiscal policy and slow pace of
economic reforms.  Cyprus, the euro area’s third-smallest economy, needs
“serious reforms to improve competitiveness, to improve the
functioning of markets, and we have not dealt at all with these
key issues,” said Zenon Kontolemis, a former International
Monetary Fund economist who now teaches at the University of
Cyprus. “We also need reforms of the public sector and of
institutions.”  The island’s economy will shrink 0.5 percent this year,
according to the  ministry of finance . The government on Dec. 23
signed a 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion) loan agreement with
 Russia  to finance its 2012 fiscal deficit and maturing debt. The
government has also called on the ECB to start buying its
sovereign bonds.  ‘Germany’s Exit’  Demetriades may not find support among European policy
makers for his view that Germany should exit the euro to help
peripheral nations regain competitiveness.  “Without Germany in the  euro zone , the euro would quickly
depreciate to a level that would help reinstate the
competitiveness of the periphery,” Demetriades wrote in a
letter to the Financial Times published on May 11 last year.
Germany’s exit would be preferable to imposing austerity on
struggling nations or allowing them to depart, he said.  Demetriades, 53, has a PhD in economics from  Cambridge
University . He began his career at the Central Bank of Cyprus in
1985 and in 1999 worked in the office of then World Bank Chief
Economist  Joseph Stiglitz , according his  curriculum vitae .
Demetriades has been professor of financial economics at the
University of Leicester since 2000.  “We wish Panicos Demetriades success in the difficult task
he
assumes,” Stefanou said.  Orphanides  Orphanides was appointed central bank governor in 2007 to
help Cyprus with its transition to the euro in 2008. The former
Fed economist became a closely watched ECB policy maker, helping
Cyprus punch above its weight.  At home, his Frankfurt-honed views on central bank
independence led to an increasingly difficult relationship with
President Demetris Christofias. In 2008, Orphanides  refused  to
sell the central bank’s gold reserves and transfer the profit to
the government. He also angered Christofias with repeated
criticism of budget policy.  A year ago, Christofias accused Orphanides of not doing
enough to prevent Cypriot banks from investing in Greek
 government bonds . The two largest Cypriot lenders, Bank of
Cyprus and Cyprus Popular Bank, posted losses of 1.4 billion
euros and 3.3 billion euros respectively for 2011, resulting
mainly from writedowns of Greek debt.  Explosion  Finance minister Vassos Shiarly, a former executive of Bank
of Cyprus, said on April 23 that the government may need to
support one of its lenders with as much as 1.5 billion euros.  Orphanides was among the demonstrators on Nicosia’s streets
in July last year demanding the president’s resignation over his
handling of an explosion at a naval base that killed 13 people
and knocked out 50 percent of the island’s electricity
production capacity.  Orphanides also urged Christofias to take additional and
tougher steps to support the economy in a letter dated July 18.  “Orphanides’s departure is a loss but I am confident that
the new governor will follow in his footsteps,” said Spyros Episkopou, chief executive officer of the Nicosia-based
Epicentral Consultancy Ltd and formerly general manager of the
Nicosia-based  USB Bank Plc. (USB)  He will have to convince “markets
and investors as to the continuity with regards to the
protection of the reputation of the Cypriot banking system,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  