-- Dewey LeBoeuf Said to End Greenberg Traurig Merger Talks
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-04-30T18:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/dewey-said-to-be-subject-of-probe-as-deadline-nears.html
Dewey LeBoeuf LLP, the New York law
firm struggling to survive after more than 70 lawyers left in
recent weeks, ended merger talks with  Greenberg Traurig  LLP,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  The firm told members of the end of negotiations in an
internal memorandum that also announced that Steven Davis, its
former chairman, has been terminated as a member of the five-
person chairman’s office and the executive committee.  The firm plans to continue merger talks with other firms as
it faces a deadline today with banks over whether to extend a
$100 million line of credit, according to the memo, which was
obtained by Bloomberg News. The firm will continue as usual
today without disruption to its work, the memo said. As of 6:30
p.m. yesterday, the deadline hadn’t been extended.  The New York-based firm is said to be the subject of a
criminal probe by state prosecutors related to whether managers
misled partners about payments due them, another person familiar
with the matter said.  No single firm currently appears willing to buy all of what
is left of Dewey, according to a person familiar with the
situation. Dewey now is talking with several firms who might
take parts of its specialized practice groups, as part of a
bankruptcy plan devised with lenders’ consent, said the person,
who declined to be named because the talks are private.  Patton Boggs  Washington-based Patton Boggs LLP is among the firms
conferring with Dewey, said the person. Under Dewey’s plan,
different firms might pay to acquire receivables generated by
lawyers they took on, he said. The law firm does have something
to sell -- groups of strong practices, he said.  Dewey’s most profitable practices include bankruptcy,
corporate law, litigation and public policy, the firm has said.  The plan remains uncertain because firms considering taking
some of Dewey’s lawyers might do better to pick up the pieces
after a bankruptcy filing, the person said.  Patton Boggs wouldn’t say if it will take on some of
Dewey’s lawyers.  “From time to time we have conversations with other firms
in connection with our interest in making strategic acquisitions
to strengthen our practice,” said Patton Boggs Managing Partner
Edward Newberry. “We have only the highest regard for the
lawyers at Dewey & LeBoeuf. They have a legacy of being among
the very best in the areas in which they practice.”  More Departures Today  At least eight lawyers announced departures from Dewey
today including Marshall Stoddard, the U.S. head of Dewey’s bank
and institutional finance practice group, and Charles Moore, an
energy partner in Houston, who both left for Philadelphia-based
Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP along with two counsel lawyers and an
associate.  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP hired disputes partner Peter
Gray for the firm’s Dubai office, and  Clifford Chance  LLP hired
Gary Boss, who specializes in mergers and acquisitions and
insurance. Boss is the sixth Dewey partner to join Clifford
Chance’s New York office in the past six months, Clifford Chance
said.  Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s investigation
is in a preliminary stage, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public.  Prosecutors, tipped by disenchanted Dewey partners, are
investigating possible wrongdoing at the firm, the person said.  Pay Complaints  Vance seeks to ensure documents and other evidence is
preserved ahead of any bankruptcy, merger or dissolution, the
person said.  Partners have been leaving Dewey, the No. 3 law firm
adviser to banks handling merger deals, amid complaints about
pay and a plan to restructure the firm. It has drawn about
$75 million of a $100 million  credit line  from banks including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , according to a person
familiar with the firm’s finances. The banks extended an initial
April 16 deadline to come up with a plan, according to another
person who is familiar with a merger proposal that Dewey
presented to other law firms.  There was no extension of the line of credit deadline as of
6:30 p.m. yesterday, said a person familiar with the talks.
Bankers discussed, but didn’t grant, an extension giving Dewey
as long as 120 days to continue financing talks, the person
said.  Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman for Vance, declined to comment.
Angelo Kakolyris, a spokesman for Dewey, didn’t return an April
27 call seeking comment on the probe. On April 26, he declined
to comment on the deadline.  Internal Memo  In a copy of an internal memorandum obtained by Bloomberg
News and dated April 27, the law firm said it’s aware of an
investigation by Vance into one Dewey attorney involved in the
firm’s management. The firm said in the memo that it has begun
an internal probe and plans to cooperate with Vance’s office.
Harvey Kurzweil and Seth Farber, as counsel to the firm, were
asked to conduct the internal investigation, the memo stated.  Last month, as defections mounted, Dewey restructured its
chairman’s office to include the heads of four practice groups
in addition to Davis. The group includes  Martin Bienenstock , who
runs the firm’s restructuring group; Rich Shutran, head of the
corporate department;  Jeffrey Kessler , head of litigation; and
Charles Landgraf, who runs the Washington office and the
legislative and public-policy group.  ‘Various Paths’  The firm said last week that it was considering “various
paths including continuing to operate as an independent global
law firm and a strategic combination with another leading law
firm.”  A possible partner was Greenberg Traurig, which has ended
its discussions with Dewey.  “Dewey is a firm we hold in high regard, with many fine
lawyers, though we never considered a merger,” said Greenberg’s
CEO, Richard A. Rosenbaum, in a statement sent today by Jill Perry, a spokeswoman for the firm.  Dewey partners, who were getting less pay than expected as
profit fell, learned at a partnership meeting in  Manhattan  that
the firm had struck special deals with some partners who would
have to be paid before others, according to a person familiar
with those events.  Davis said at the meeting that the special deals requiring
Dewey to defer pay for most partners involved fewer than
100 lawyers, the person said. Pay at the firm ranged from about
$300,000 for junior partners to as much as $5 million to
$6 million for a handful of  top lawyers, the person said.  Dewey Executive  Dewey’s executive director, Stephen DiCarmine, had a deal
putting his salary and bonus at $2 million a year, said the
person, who wasn’t authorized to comment on these matters and
didn’t want to be named.  Davis didn’t return phone or e-mail messages seeking
comment on the probe or the firm’s finances.  In addition to the bank deadline, the firm has $125 million
in bonds sold to insurance companies in 2010 to refinance
previous bank loans.  The bonds, placed by New York-based JPMorgan, come due from
next year to 2020, Dewey said at the time. The firm’s revenue
last year was $782 million, compared with about $760 million in
2010, according to the American Lawyer, a trade magazine that
tracks law firm results. The publication lowered its numbers for
Dewey this month after getting what it called “newly obtained
information.”  Rich Shutran, head of the corporate department at Dewey and
a member of the chairman’s office, told Bloomberg in March that
the firm earned about $250 million last year. American Lawyer’s
revision of its report on Dewey’s 2011 results came after that.  Bankruptcy Studied  A team led by partners Bienenstock and  Bruce Bennett  was
weighing a so-called prepackaged bankruptcy, one of the people
familiar with the firm said. A bankruptcy plan approved in
advance by creditors could lead to a merger with another U.S.
firm, said the person, who didn’t want to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to discuss the plans.  The team also explored what might happen if the firm shut
down, the person said. Closing Dewey would make it much more
difficult for members of the firm’s limited liability
partnership and creditors to get any money back, the person
said.  Bienenstock, whose restructuring team represented Los
Angeles Dodgers LLC in its sale to a group including former
professional basketball player  Magic Johnson , didn’t respond to
calls and e-mails seeking comment on plans for Dewey.  No. 3 Adviser  Dewey ranked third among legal advisers to investment banks
advising companies on mergers this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The firm placed 28th in American Lawyer’s
ranking of the largest 100 law firms, with 190 partners and 2011
revenue of $782 million.  Most large law firms that fail don’t come out of
bankruptcy, said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer with Bingham
Greenebaum Doll LLP in Louisville,  Kentucky . Instead, they
liquidate, he said, citing New York-based Finley Kumble, which
went bankrupt in 1988. The firm had almost 200 partners,
according to the American Lawyer.  Dewey might struggle to find a merger partner because many
rivals prefer to select only the partners they want, Bowles
said. The serial defections suffered by Dewey were “a form of
cherry picking with groups of partners leaving,” he said.  While a pre-packaged bankruptcy “in theory could work,”
Dewey’s challenge would be to keep control of the firm’s assets,
which are mainly its partners, Bowles said. “The money is in
the books of business of the productive partners.”  March Beginning  Dewey’s defections began in March with the departure of a
group of 12 insurance and regulatory lawyers for Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP. The firm has since lost lawyers to DLA Piper LLP,
 Reed Smith LLP , Patton Boggs LLP, Hunton & Williams LLP and
Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP.  In Dewey’s international network, the 42-lawyer Moscow
outpost was recently assessing its options after approaches from
firms including King & Spalding LLP, said a person familiar with
the negotiations. The Russian office focuses on energy and
corporate law.  In April, Dechert LLP took a five-partner corporate and
securities team from Dewey’s Dubai office to open in the city.  Dewey’s Rome office head, Stefano Speroni, has said the
Italian business wasn’t negotiating with anyone to leave.  Revenue for the first two months of this year rose
28 percent from a year earlier, and so-called billable value
increased 13 percent, according to a letter to the partners
obtained by Bloomberg News last month. Revenue for the 12 months
through Feb. 29 grew 6 percent with an increase in billable
value of 9.7 percent, according to the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York 
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 