-- Geithner, Clinton Don’t Plan to Cancel China Trip
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-29T15:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/geithner-clinton-won-t-cancel-china-trip.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  have no plans
to cancel their trip to  China , according to a State Department
official who spoke on condition of anonymity, amid reports the
U.S. is protecting a fugitive Chinese activist.  Last week, legal activist Chen Guangcheng escaped house
arrest in Shandong province, where he had been held since his
release from prison in September 2010, Midland, Texas-based
ChinaAid, a U.S.-based human rights group,  reported .  Clinton and Geithner are due to arrive in Beijing for
annual talks May 3-4. The trip will go forward, the State
Department official said yesterday, speaking anonymously because
of the sensitivity of the issue.  “This all looks to me like a brewing, perfect-storm test
for relations,” said  Chris Johnson , a senior adviser at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington and
former senior China analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency.
The annual talks, which “substantively, probably would have
been inconsequential, suddenly become the most important test
for Sino-U.S. relations for the Obama administration thus far in
its tenure.”  Chen, who is blind, is now under U.S. protection in
Beijing, and talks are taking place between the U.S. and China
about his status, ChinaAid’s founder Bob Fu said in an e-mail
yesterday, citing people close to the situation.  ‘No Information’  Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai, speaking at a
news conference in Beijing yesterday, said the talks would go
ahead as scheduled and he had “no information” about Chen.  U.S. Assistant Secretary of State  Kurt Campbell  arrived in
Beijing today, earlier than his scheduled arrival before the
talks, the  Associated Press  reported. Richard Buangan, a
spokesman for the U.S. embassy in the Chinese capital, declined
to comment on the report when reached by Bloomberg News.  Asked about Chen on “Fox News Sunday,” Deputy National
Security Adviser  John Brennan  said “we are working very closely
with the individuals involved in this,” and declined further
comment.  President  Barack Obama  has “faced similar situations” in
which he’s had to balance human rights and diplomatic issues,
and the U.S. government will “find the right way forward,”
Brennan said.  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican presidential
candidate to challenge Democrat Obama in the U.S. November
elections, urged the U.S. to ensure the protection of Chen and
his family. The U.S. “must play a strong role in urging reform
in China and supporting those fighting for the freedoms we
enjoy,” Romney said in a statement today.  Relations Tested  U.S.-Chinese relations have been tested this year by events
including “the Chinese early support for the Assad regime in
 Syria ,  North Korea ’s satellite launch and a presumed nuclear
test, this guy running to the consulate -- it’s just one thing
after another,” Johnson said.  Chinese political leaders were already trying to manage a
scandal involving U.S. diplomats and a Chinese citizen, Johnson
said. Chongqing party leader  Bo Xilai  lost his Politburo post
earlier this month after his wife and an aide were put in
custody for suspicion of murdering a British businessman.  The arrests came after Bo’s former police chief, Wang
Lijun, had spent a night in February at the U.S. consulate in
Chengdu, and then left, an event confirmed by both the U.S. and
Chinese governments. China’s state-run news agency Xinhua
reported that Wang disclosed the murder allegations.  Political Earthquake  “The political earthquake in Beijing this year has been
the Bo Xilai affair,” said Ken Lieberthal, head of the Thornton
Center for China at the Washington-based  Brookings Institution .
“There are some people in China who I’m sure feel that all of
that was a set up by the U.S. government to embarrass the
leaders.”  The U.S. government faces “no good solution,” Lieberthal
said. “You want to do the right thing by the individual,” yet
talking about Chinese abuses “will come across in China to most
people as if you are interfering in domestic affairs, seeking to
humiliate China, and therefore being folks that are not of
goodwill and should not be listened to. So you end up being
quite ineffective,” he said.  F-16s to Taiwan  Johnson, at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies, went on to add the politics behind the consideration
being given by the U.S. to selling  Taiwan   Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
F-16 fighter jets is another nuance to be navigated by the Obama
administration.  “When you layer onto the cake as well that the White House
sent a letter to Senator Cornyn of  Texas  noting that they would
take a second look at possible new F-16 fighter aircraft sales
to Taiwan in order to get Senator Cornyn to lift his hold on the
appointment of Mark Lippert as the new assistant secretary of
defense for East Asia,” the Geithner-Clinton trip becomes “a
very tricky situation,” he said.  The sale of F-16s “warrants serious consideration, given
the growing military threat to Taiwan,” Robert Nabors, the
White House’s director of legislative affairs, said in a letter
to Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican, on April 27.  China, which insists that Taiwan be reunited with the
mainland, by force if necessary, has in the past cut military
contacts with the U.S. over American arms sales to the island.  Johnson said the timing of Chen’s escape alone will
encourage hardliners to see the event as a “conspiracy to
stifle China’s rise” and to adopt the belief “that this was
all planned by the U.S.” For the Chinese, that means “they
have got to react probably a little more sternly,” he said.  ‘Bilateral Mess’  “This could be the biggest bilateral mess that we’ve faced
in a very long time,” Johnson said.  A Chinese dissident spent an extended period sheltered
inside the U.S. embassy during the 1989 Tiananmen Square
protests, when the Communist Party clashed with pro-democracy
students. Fang Lizhi, a physics professor, was housed in the
U.S. embassy for 13 months before he left the country for the
U.S. He died earlier this month at the age of 76 in Tucson,
 Arizona .  ‘Pivotal Moment’  “This is a pivotal moment for U.S. human rights
diplomacy,” Fu said in the e-mail. “Because of Chen’s wide
popularity, the Obama administration must stand firmly with him
or risk losing credibility as a defender of freedom and the rule
of law.”  The U.S. has taken up Chen’s case in the past. Clinton
mentioned him in a speech in November, saying the U.S. was
“alarmed” by his continued house arrest and calling on China
to “embrace a different path.”  ChinaAid’s statement said Fu has been in touch with Chen’s
friends and family and was told that Chen wanted to remain in
China. He wants “a normal life as a Chinese citizen,”
according to the statement.  Chen was jailed for more than four years after helping
villagers resist forced abortions, rights groups including the
New York-based  Human Rights in China  say. After his release in
September 2010, he and his wife were confined to their home in
the village of Dongshigu.  Chen is a self-taught lawyer who was blinded by a fever in
infancy, the Associated Press reported. He Peirong, an activist
who has led a campaign to free Chen, picked him up and drove him
to a “relatively safe place,” the AP quoted her as saying.  Nephew, Brother Detained  Human Rights in China, citing a “knowledgeable source”
that it didn’t identify, has said that Chen’s nephew, Chen
Kegui, was taken from his home by more than 30 policemen April
27. Chen Guangfu,  Chen Guangcheng ’s older brother, was taken
away a day earlier, the group said in an e-mailed statement.  “It’s a very political year in Beijing -- it is here too -
- and they were very anxious to avoid things that would impact
negatively on the relationship,” Brookings’ Lieberthal said. He
recommended the U.S. “adopt a very low profile on this while
trying quietly to negotiate” an exit to a safe haven for Chen
and his family.  If the Chinese “can find a face-saving solution that
works, that may be of interest to them because, just like the Bo
Xilai scandal, they keep wanting to just move on and refocus on
the succession,” Johnson said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kowalski in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  