-- German 2-Year Yields Drop to Record Low on Spanish Woes
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-04-28T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/german-2-year-yields-drop-to-record-low-on-spanish-woes.html
German  bonds  rose, sending two-year
yields to a record low, as  Standard & Poor’s  cut  Spain ’s credit
rating, adding to concern central banks and politicians are
failing to contain the European debt crisis.  German two-year note yields dropped below rates on U.S.
Treasury three-month bills yesterday as investors sought the
safety of the euro region’s benchmark debt. Spain was lowered
two steps to BBB+ from A -- three steps above non-investment
grade -- as S&P said Spain will have to provide further fiscal
support for banks. French bonds rose as Socialist Francois
Hollande maintained a poll lead over President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
going into the second round of presidential elections on May 6.  “German bond yields show how risk-averse the market is,”
said Marchel Alexandrovich, a senior European economist at
Jefferies International Ltd. in  London . “There’s still a lot of
uncertainty ahead.”  German two-year note  yields  dropped four basis points to
0.10 percent after falling to a record 0.075 percent in the week
to trade at 100.28 percent of face value. The yield on 10-year
German bunds fell one basis point from last week to 1.70
percent.  Italian 10-year yields rose for a seventh week to 5.67
percent from 5.66 percent on April 20.  French bonds climbed, pushing 10-year yields down 9 basis
points to 3 percent. The extra  yield  investors demand for
holding the securities instead of German bunds slid to 130 basis
points from 138 basis points.  German bonds returned 1.2 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spain’s have lost 1.1 percent, and
Italy’s securities gained 8.8 percent.  The  European Central Bank  holds a policy meeting on May 3.
All 58 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict the central
bank will keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  