-- Japan to Seize Tepco on Same Terms as 2003 Resona Rescue
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-04-29T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/japan-to-model-trillion-yen-tepco-bailout-on-2003-bank-rescue.html
Japan plans to seize control of its
biggest utility on the same terms it applied to a bailout of the
nation’s fifth-biggest bank nine years ago.  The government will inject 1 trillion yen ($12 billion)
capital into beleaguered  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  as early as
July, taking more than 50 percent of  voting rights  in return,
the Nikkei newspaper  said  April 28. It will have an option to
boost to two-thirds its voting rights in the utility known as
Tepco, Nikkei reported.  Trade and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano  has said Japan will
adopt the model used to rescue  Resona Holdings Inc. (8308)  in 2003,
when it pumped almost 2 trillion yen into the bank for 70
percent control. Tepco has been on government life-support since
last year’s earthquake and tsunami wrecked its Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear station, causing reactor meltdowns and forcing
about 160,000 people to evacuate from nearby areas.  “This is the last chance to restore Tepco,” Kazuhiko Shimokobe, a corporate turnaround lawyer who will be the
utility’s next chairman, told reporters on April 27. “Tepco
employees should take to heart that they can’t restore public
confidence in the company without reforms.”  Edano has cited the bank bailout as a success, saying in
February it’s been “widely agreed that Resona has returned to
health.” The lender recorded a profit for the 12 months to
March 2005 after cumulative losses of 3.4 trillion yen in the
previous three years, and remained profitable throughout the
global financial crisis.  Rates to Rise  The government is studying a business plan submitted last
week by Tepco and the Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund.
The proposal, which outlines restructuring steps including a 1
trillion yen capital infusion, will be released after Edano
approves it, Shimokobe said.  The plan is premised on an increase in electricity rates
for households of about 10 percent from July and restart of the
Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear plant in the year starting April 2013,
the Nikkei newspaper reported.  “We need to work on raising electricity rates for
households at appropriate timing” to ensure stable power supply,
Shimokobe said, without elaborating.  Credit Rating  Approval of the bailout plan would probably prevent a
downgrading of Tepco by  Japan  Credit Rating Agency Ltd.,
according to BlackRock Inc. Companies need at least one risk
assessor to give them a grade above BBB+ to remain in the Nomura
Bond Performance Index, which is used by most major Japanese
pension funds. Tepco’s sole foothold is JCR, which rates it A.  “I can’t say the chances are zero, but we think it won’t
happen” because Japan Credit takes into account outside support
for the utility, Kunihide Takeuchi, a Tokyo-based  fund manager 
at BlackRock, said last week.  The extra yield investors demand to own Tepco’s 100 billion
yen of notes due May 2013 rather than government debt averaged
about 564 basis points this month, according to Japan Securities
Dealers Association prices. The spread tightened from a record
964 basis points, or 9.64 percentage points, on Oct. 27, JSDA
prices show.  The yield premium was 10 basis points on March 10, 2011,
one day before the quake disaster.  Nuclear-Free  Japan’s last working nuclear power reactor is scheduled to
shut down for maintenance in about a week, leaving utilities
struggling to keep electricity supplies stable without the
48,960 megawatts of capacity previously generated by 54 atomic
plants.  The nation is moving closer to restarting two reactors at
Kansai Electric Power Co.’s Ohi nuclear station in Fukui
prefecture after four ministers approved additional safety
measures at the plant and cited the need to ease power shortages
as Japan’s summer approaches.  The Ohi reactors would be the first to come back online
since Japan adopted so-called nuclear stress tests, computer
simulations to assess each plant’s ability to withstand
earthquakes or tsunamis and to supply backup power to keep
reactor cooling systems running.  Utilities have submitted reports on the first phase of
stress tests on 18 reactors to the Nuclear and Industrial Safety
Agency, the agency said on its website. The Nuclear Safety
Commission has completed assessments only on the two Ohi
reactors, according to the NISA website.  It’s unlikely other reactors will restart before summer as
the safety commission plans to leave the assessment on other
reactors to a new regulatory agency which hasn’t been created
yet, Edano said April 20.  Industry Restructuring  Nationalization of Tepco would pave the way for the
government to restructure a power industry monopolized by
regional utilities, and possibly break up generation and
transmission networks to allow more competition.  Shimokobe, who has been heading the compensation fund set
up to rescue the utility, agreed to serve as chairman after the
government failed to find a business leader willing to run Tepco.
Someone inside the company will be promoted to replace President
Toshio Nishizawa, Nikkei reported.  The utility will clarify management’s responsibility when
it discloses its earnings in May, Nishizawa said on April 27. He
declined to comment on details of the business plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  