-- Obama Meddling, Trying to Topple Hugo Chavez, Castro Writes
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-04-28T17:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/obama-meddling-trying-to-topple-hugo-chavez-castro-writes.html
Attempts by President  Barack Obama 
to bring down the government of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
would result in “a river of blood,” former Cuban President
 Fidel Castro  wrote.  The U.S. government is trying to topple Chavez by promoting
the idea of discord within Chavez’s government due to his battle
with cancer, Castro wrote in a  column  published today in Granma,
the official newspaper of the Cuban Communist Party.  “It’s worrying that the government of the  United States 
has decided in such circumstances to promote the downfall of the
Venezuelan government,” Castro wrote. “An error by Obama, in
such circumstances, could result in a river of blood in
Venezuela.”  An e-mail sent to the spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in
 Venezuela  seeking comment wasn’t immediately returned.  Chavez, 57, who has undergone three operations and several
rounds of chemotherapy and radiation treatment in Cuba since
June, has said he can continue as his party’s candidate in
October’s presidential election, where he’s seeking another six-
year term. He has refused to say what kind of cancer he has,
where it’s located or give his prognosis, fueling speculation
that his illness is worse than he’s letting on.  The self-declared socialist was criticized by opposition
candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski for governing by Twitter as
he receives treatment in Cuba.  Castro, 85, said he’s a witness to the fact Chavez has kept
working even as he receives radiation therapy.  “His obligations never stray from his mind, not even for a
minute and sometimes to the point of being overwhelming,”
Castro wrote. “I can testify to that because I’ve been in
constant contact and communication with him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  