-- Hon Hai Net Misses Estimates on Higher Costs, Unit Losses
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-04-28T15:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/hon-hai-first-quarter-net-income-increases-to-nt-14-9-billion.html
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) ,
manufacturer of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and iPhone, posted profit
which missed analyst estimates after raising wages, spending to
build factories and losses at its Hong Kong unit.  First-quarter net income climbed 3.6 percent to NT$14.9
billion ($510 million), from NT$14.4 billion a year earlier, the
Taipei-based company said in an exchange filing today. The
average of 10 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was for
profit of NT$21.5 billion.  Foxconn Technology Group, of which Hon Hai is the flagship,
raised wages 25 percent in February and is continuing to spend
money moving factories to inland China. Hon Hai’s profitability
usually moves in the opposite direction to that of Apple, which
posted its highest operating margin in over a decade.  “That poor result caught me by surprise,” said Vincent Chen, the top-ranked analyst covering Hon Hai according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, who rates the stock “hold” at Yuanta
Financial Holding Co. in Taipei. “The wage rises haven’t been
passed on to customers yet, which impacted profits.”  Planned Migration  Customers have agreed to cover the cost of higher salaries,
Chairman Terry Gou told Bloomberg News today before the earnings
announcement. Foxconn’s planned migration of production capacity
from Eastern  China  to the interior of the country is around 60
percent complete, he said.  “There’ll be a shortage of labor if you don’t pay more.
We’ve calculated the real cost if we pay more, and in fact when
considering overtime, we will actually be saving on costs,” Gou
said. “And secondly, if we pay more, then everyone will pay
more.”  Gross margins, which measure revenue less the cost of goods
sold, will gradually rebound throughout this year, Chief
Financial Officer Huang Chiu-lian told Bloomberg News today
before the earnings announcement, without providing a target for
gross margin.  Unconsolidated sales climbed 43 percent to NT$789.9 billion
for the quarter, Hon Hai said. The company will publish
consolidated numbers before the end of May.  Gross margin at the unconsolidated level fell to 4 percent
during the period from 4.5 percent a year earlier, while the
operating margin, which measures sales less all operating costs,
dropped to 0.9 percent from 1.1 percent.  Apple Sales  Apple sold 35.1 million iPhones for the March quarter,
ahead of the 31.2 million average of analyst estimates and 11.8
million iPads, compared with expectations for 11.9 million. Hon
Hai makes both devices at its factories in China, while rival
Pegatron Technology Corp. is a secondary supplier of the iPhone.  Apple’s gross margin widened to 47 percent, its highest on
record, while operating margin climbed to 39 percent during the
March quarter, its highest since 2000. Apple’s margins usually
climbed when Hon Hai’s decline, Bloomberg News reported in
January.  Production bottlenecks for producing the iPad, including a
lower yield rate and a shortage of panels, may have impacted Hon
Hai’s profits during the quarter, Arthur Liao, who rates the
stock “buy” at Fubon Financial Holding Co., wrote in a note to
clients last week. The panel-supply problems will probably be
solved this quarter, he wrote.  Apple’s iPhone will account for 23 percent of Hon Hai
revenue this year, and iPad around 17 percent, Liao wrote.  Shares and stock options granted to management will also
raise costs throughout this year, Yuanta’s Chen said.  Foxconn raised base wages by up to 25 percent in February,
doubling the salary of a junior worker in Shenzhen, its main
production hub, to 1,800 yuan ($285) a month from 900 yuan three
years ago. The company in March agreed to a further unspecified
salary hike after the Fair Labor Association said it found cases
of employees working longer hours and more days in a row than
allowed.  Growth Forecast  Gou, who founded the company, cut his annual sales-growth
forecast in September 2009 to 15 percent from a 30 percent
target that had been in place for more than a decade as Hon
Hai’s size burgeoned. Revenue growth will be at least 15 percent
this year, driven by China and  Brazil , he said Dec. 1.  Slowing labor supply and increased government incentives
prompted Gou to begin expansion in central China, away from Hon
Hai’s main production base on the east coast and closer to its
workforce, a move that raised costs and cut  profit margins .  Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038) , a Hong Kong-listed
phone manufacturing affiliate 72 percent owned by Hon Hai, last
week said its first-half loss will widen “significantly” due
to weaker demand from customers and higher costs.  The supplier of phones to  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , which posted a loss of
$17.7 million for the first half of 2011, fell to its lowest in
3 1/2 years in  Hong Kong  after the profit warning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 