-- Rangers Beat Capitals 3-1, Kings Top Blues 3-1 in NHL Playoffs
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/rangers-beat-capitals-3-1-to-open-nhl-2nd-round-playoff-series.html
Chris Kreider and  Brad Richards 
scored in the third period as the  New York Rangers  beat the
Washington Capitals 3-1 in the opener of their National Hockey
League second-round playoff series.  At Scottrade Center in St. Louis, Matt Greene scored the
winning goal for the  Los Angeles Kings  in a 3-1 victory over the
 St. Louis Blues  in Game 1 of their series.  Kreider, 20, has been with the Rangers since April 11. Four
days earlier, he had won the National Collegiate Athletic
Association title with  Boston College .  “It was a surreal experience; I got goose bumps,
obviously,” Kreider said about the crowd chanting his name at
Madison Square Garden. “I was really tired after the goal, but
didn’t feel so tired when they started chanting.”  Kreider broke a 1-1 tie with a slap shot seven minutes into
the final period and Richards scored 90 seconds later with a
wrist shot.  Coach John Tortorella said the team introduced Kreider to
“our concept” and then turned him loose on the ice.  “There are a number of things that we’ll end up working
with him on but this isn’t the time of year to do that,”
Tortorella said. “We just want his instincts and speed, and
then just go out there and play.”  Greene’s 9-foot Tip-in  New York ’s Artem Anisimov opened the scoring 12 minutes, 38
seconds into the second period with a wrap-around shot past
Braden Holtby. Jason Chimera then tied the score for Washington
with four seconds left in the period.  Henrik Lundqvist made 17 saves in goal for New York, the
top seed in the Eastern Conference, and Holtby stopped 11 shots.
New York hosts Game 2 of the best-of-seven series tomorrow.  In St. Louis, David Backes gave the Blues a 1-0 lead in the
first period before Slava Voynov tied the game with three left
in the period.  Greene scored a shorthanded goal on a nine-foot tip-in with
a minute remaining in the second period as the Kings went ahead
2-1. Dustin Penner cemented the win with a 145-foot slap shot
with 15 seconds left in the game.  The Blues will seek to tie the series 1-1 tomorrow on home
ice.  In today’s games, the  New Jersey Devils  open their second-
round series against the  Philadelphia Flyers  and the Nashville
Predators are in Phoenix as they try to tie their series 1-1 in
their second game against the Coyotes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  