-- Treasury 10-Year Notes Rise for Sixth Week on U.S. Growth
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-04-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/treasury-10-year-notes-rise-for-sixth-week-on-u-s-growth.html
Treasury 10-year note yields fell
for the sixth week in a row, matching the longest streak since
June, as slowing growth and concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is
worsening bolstered the refuge appeal of  U.S. government debt .  Yields on the benchmark note dropped to the lowest level in
two months as government reports showed the  U.S. economy 
expanded less-than-forecast in the first quarter and weekly
jobless claims rose. U.S. payrolls added fewer than 200,000
positions in April for a second straight month, data next week
may show, adding to expectations from investors including  Bill Gross  that the  Federal Reserve  is far from pulling back on
monetary stimulus.  “There is real concern that we will continue to see the
economy roll over further after the good start the year had,”
said Larry Milstein, managing director in  New York  of
government- and agency-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a
fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional investors.
“Europe is still weak and the Fed is still on hold, all of
which continues to keep Treasuries well bid.”  Yields on 10-year notes fell this week three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.93 percent in New York, according
to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 1.88 percent
yesterday, the lowest since Feb. 3.  Ten-year Treasuries are set to rise for the first month
since January on concern Europe’s debt crisis was widening. U.S.
bonds have returned 1.4 percent since March 31, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX) 
Index of U.S. shares has handed investors a 3.4 percent loss
over the same period, including reinvested dividends.  ‘Below 2 Percent’  A rally in 10-year Treasuries next week would match the
seven-consecutive-week rise ended in December 2008.  “As long as Europe continues to give us positive reasons
to stay below 2 percent, then we’ll be below it,” said Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist in New York Mizuho Securities USA
Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that trade Treasuries with the
Fed. “I don’t think there’s anything in the domestic data to
upset that.”  The U.S. economy expanded at an annualized rate of 2.2
percent in the first quarter, from 3 percent in the previous
three-month period, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday
in  Washington . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a
rise of 2.5 percent.  Unemployment Rate  Jobless claims  fell by 1,000 to 388,000 in the week ended
April 21 from a revised 389,000 the prior period that was higher
than initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed on
April 25 in Washington. The median forecast of 48 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a drop to 375,000.  Employers in the U.S. may have added 165,000 jobs in April,
following a 120,000 gain in March that was the fewest in five
months, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. The  unemployment rate  is forecast to remain steady at
8.2 percent, according to a separate survey.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  this week said “labor
market conditions have improved in recent months; the
unemployment rate has declined but remains elevated.”  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing, or QE, from December 2008 to June to
boost the economy. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he is prepared
to do more to support the economy if needed.  Gross’s View  While more monetary stimulus isn’t likely at the moment, a
third round of asset purchases remain an option for the Fed if
employment growth is sluggish, Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s Gross said during a Bloomberg Television “Street Smart”
interview with  Trish Regan .  “The chairman has not ruled it out,” said Gross, who runs
the world’s biggest bond fund. “If we see some weak employment
reports over the next few months, then QE3 is back on.”  Trading  volume  dropped yesterday to $195.5 billion, from
$246.6 billion the previous day, according to ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest interdealer broker. The average in 2012 is $249
billion. Volume reached $439 billion on March 14, the highest
since August.  Volatility dropped to the lowest since June 2007. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures Treasury
price swings based on options, dropped to 65.2 basis points. It
reached 93.3 basis points on March 20, the highest level this
year. It has averaged 112.56 basis points for the past five
years.  ‘Negative Growth’  Valuation measures show Treasuries are at almost the most
expensive level in seven weeks. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed, touched negative 0.66 percent.
It reached negative 0.67 percent on April 23, the most expensive
on a closing basis since March 6. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value.  S&P lowered  Spain ’s long-term sovereign-credit rating on
April 26 by two levels to BBB+ from A, with a negative outlook.
The nation’s budget trajectory is likely to worsen and the
country may need to provide more fiscal support to banks, the
ratings company said in a statement on April 27.  Spain, the fourth-biggest economy in the euro region, is
scheduled to auction notes maturing in 2015 and 2017 on May 3.
The nation’s 10-year bond  yields  climbed to 6.16 percent last
week, the highest this year, and were at 5.90 percent yesterday.  “If you already have negative growth in lots of the
economies, and it’s a situation where they will go with
austerity measures to reduce debt burdens, it’s more of a
negative impact as those measures start to take hold,” said Tom Tucci, managing director and head of Treasury trading in New
York at CIBC World Markets Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  