-- Saudi Shares Advance Most in Week on Fed Outlook; Sabic Gains
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-04-28T13:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/saudi-shares-advance-most-in-week-on-fed-outlook-sabic-gains.html
Saudi Arabian shares gained the
most in a week after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s prepared to do more to stimulate U.S. growth.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemicals maker, climbed the most since April. 21. Almarai
Co., the kingdom’s biggest food producer, jumped 4.3 percent
after saying a new infant formula plant will start production in
May.  Samba Financial Group (SAMBA)  advanced the most in more than a
month. The Tadawul All Share Index rose 0.9 percent, the most
since April 21, to 7,607.59 in Riyadh at the 3:30 p.m. close.
The 152-member index has increased 19 percent this year.  The forecasts by the U.S. Federal Reserve “for growth and
unemployment may have a positive impact on the Saudi market,
particularly the petrochemical sector,” Turki Fadaak, head of
research at Riyadh-based Albilad Investment Co., said.  The Fed on April 25 upgraded its estimates for growth and
unemployment this year while repeating its view that borrowing
costs are likely to remain “exceptionally low” at least
through late 2014. Oil for June delivery climbed 0.4 percent to
$104.93 a barrel yesterday in  New York , the highest settlement
since April 2. Futures advanced 1.8 percent this week.  “Market activity reflects the gathering anticipation for
further stimulus by the Fed in the U.S.,” Asim Bukhtiar, head
of research at Riyad Capital, said in response to e-mailed
questions. The domestic market has shown correlation with U.S.
markets in the past. Stimulus and positive signs of economic
direction in the US will drive sentiment here as well.’’  Saudi Basic advanced 0.7 percent to 103.5 riyals. Almarai
rose to 67 riyals. Samba, the country’s second-largest bank by
market value, gained 3 percent, the mosts since March 25, to 52
riyals.  Saudi Arabia ’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
operating on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  