-- Muslim Brotherhood Says Saudi Protest Reflects Egypt’s Dignity
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-04-29T08:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/saudi-arabia-withdraws-ambassador-from-egypt-spa-reports-1-.html
The Muslim Brotherhood’s political
arm said the protests that prompted  Saudi Arabia  to temporarily
close its Cairo embassy and consulates reflected Egyptians
standing up for their rights.  The Freedom and Justice Party, which holds nearly half the
seats in parliament’s lower house, said the demonstrators were
“merely expressing the Egyptian people’s aspiration to preserve
the dignity of their fellow citizens who visit, live or work in
Arab countries,” according to a statement on the party website.  The protests that began on April 24 outside Saudi Arabia’s
embassy in Cairo were in response to the detention of Ahmed el-
Gizawy, a human rights activist and lawyer who was detained
earlier this month in the kingdom after officials there said he
tried to smuggle in anti-anxiety tablets. The detention fueled
complaints by activists on social media about the treatment of
Egyptians in Saudi Arabia. Egyptians have long complained that
ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  remained silent about how
Egyptians were treated in Gulf Arab states largely to not offend
the oil-rich Arab states.  “The people are voicing their conviction that insulting
the dignity of Egyptians abroad is no longer tolerated after the
peaceful revolution which restored their will, their voice and
their dignity,” the FJP said in the statement.  Egyptian officials have sought to smooth over the potential
rift, with Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi calling  King Abdullah  yesterday to reaffirm the strength of ties between the
two nations, the state-run al-Ahram reported today.  ‘Individual Actions’  Foreign Minister Mohamed Kamel Amr said the methods used by
some of the protesters were “individual actions that do not
represent” the views of Egyptians as a whole, the state-run
Middle East News Agency said late yesterday.  The FJP said that Egyptian-Saudi relations are “far
greater than any problems” and that “dialogue and transparency
in these relations can solve any problems.” The party called on
 Egypt ’s military rulers to “take concrete steps to solve the
el-Gizawy issue in a manner which ensures Egyptians’ dignity,
and at the same time preserves” the strong ties between both
nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  