-- South Korea, U.S. Will Work to Meet North Korea Nuclear Threat
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-04-28T03:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/south-korea-u-s-will-work-to-meet-north-korea-nuclear-threat.html
South Korea  and the U.S. pledged to
work together to meet the threat of  North Korea  developing
weapons of mass destruction amid indications the country may be
planning a third nuclear test.  The countries reaffirmed their commitment to coping with
additional North Korean provocative actions and threats, such as
the firing of a long-distance missile and a nuclear weapon test,
South Korea’s National Defense Ministry said in an  e-mailed 
statement today after a meeting earlier this week in  Washington 
of the so-called Korea-U.S. Integrated Defense Dialogue.  It was the first round of talks between the defense
authorities since North Korea launched a rocket April 13 that
disintegrated shortly after takeoff. North Korea has escalated
threats against South Korea and the U.S. in recent weeks as the
new leader Kim Jong Un celebrates the centennial of the birth of
the country’s founder, his late grandfather  Kim Il Sung .  U.S. satellite pictures from April 18 may show further
activity at North Korea’s Punggye-ri nuclear testing site, the
U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced
International Studies in Washington said today on its  website 
called “38 North.”  The imagery “supports the contention that preparations are
continuing and that the North Koreans are preceding as if the
test go-ahead decision has already been made,” the report said.
The pictures don’t “give any indication of when that detonation
may take place.”  Stoke Tensions    North Korean watchers, such as  David Albright , president of
the Institute for Science and International Security in
Washington, expect the regime in Pyongyang will try to conduct
an underground nuclear explosion, a move that would stoke
tensions with South Korea, the U.S. and the United Nations
 Security Council .  North Korea is already under UN sanctions for its two past
nuclear tests, and the Security Council censured Kim’s
government after this month’s rocket launch. That firing
prompted a rare public admission of failure to the outside world
and raised questions about whether Kim can secure his grip on
the military and government as he confronts global condemnation
and an economy that struggles to feed its own people.  Kim, who inherited power on the death of his father  Kim
Jong Il  in December, observed a combined arms exercise to mark
the 80th anniversary of the Korean People’s Army, the state-run
Korean  Central News Agency  said today, without specifying the
date of the exercise.  South Korea and the U.S. also said they will strengthen
cooperation in space and cyber-technology, the South Korean
 Defense Ministry  said in its report on the talks in Washington
held on April 26-27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  