-- Southampton Returns to Premier League After Seven-Year Absence
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-28T14:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/southampton-returns-to-premier-league-after-seven-year-absence.html
Southampton beat Coventry 4-0 to
earn promotion to the Premier League after a seven-year absence
from English soccer’s top division.  Billy Sharp, Jose Fonte, Jos Hooiveld and Adam Lallana
scored to secure Southampton’s runner-up finish to Reading in
the second-tier Championship. The top two teams in the league
are automatically promoted, with the next four teams entering
the promotion playoffs.  Southampton was relegated from the Premier League in 2005,
ending a 27-year run in the top flight. Beset by financial
problems, the Black Cats dropped to third-tier League One in
2009 and remained there until last season, when they were
promoted back to the Championship after a second-place finish.  Winning promotion to the world’s richest soccer league is
worth at least 90 million pounds ($143 million), accountant
Deloitte LLP estimates. Promoted teams benefit from at least 40
million pounds in additional revenue and minimum guaranteed
payments of 48 million pounds in the following four seasons if
they drop straight back down.  Fifty-four percent of all promoted teams retained their
Premier League status the next season, according to Infostrada
Sports. The percentage rises to 63 percent for teams who finish
first in the Championship.  Cardiff City  defeated Crystal Palace 2-1 to join West Ham,
Birmingham and Blackpool in the playoffs. Third-place West Ham
beat Hull 2-1, Birmingham defeated champion Reading 2-0 and
Blackpool drew 2-2 at Millwall.  Wembley Final  West Ham will play Cardiff and Birmingham will meet
Blackpool in two game-playoffs, with the winners advancing to
the May 19 final at Wembley Stadium.  Coventry, Portsmouth and Doncaster, the bottom three teams
in the standings, lost their final games before being relegated.
Portsmouth was beaten 2-0 at Nottingham Forest and Doncaster,
which finished last in the 24-team league, lost 3-2 to Ipswich.  Watford defeated Middlesbrough 2-1, Barnsley and Brighton
tied 0-0, Burnley drew 1-1 with Bristol City, Leicester beat
Leeds 2-1 and Derby tied 1-1 with Peterborough in the other
matches on the final day of the season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 