-- Police Fire Tear Gas as Thousands Defy Malaysian Protest Ban
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-04-28T11:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/suspected-explosive-material-found-near-malaysia-protest-site.html
Police fired tear gas and fought
with protesters in Kuala Lumpur today as thousands of people
marched calling for “reform” and cleaner elections, defying a
new government ban on street protests in Malaysia before
national polls expected this year.  Police  also used water cannons as protesters threw shoes,
bottles and chairs while trying to break through barricades to
enter a square where the Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections,
or  Bersih , wanted to hold a sit-in. Prime Minister Najib Razak’s
government enacted legislation this month banning such protests
after police detained more than 1,600 people during a similar
rally in July.  “A group of protesters tried to provoke a violent
confrontation with police,” Home Minister Hishammuddin Hussein
said in an e-mailed statement. Some 272 people were detained as
of 7:15 p.m. local time today, Assistant Commissioner of Police
Ramli Mohamed Yusof said by phone.  Najib’s handling of the clashes could affect plans for
timing an election. Arrests during a street rally by the same
group last year led to a drop in the prime minister’s approval
rating. A delayed vote would prevent him from taking advantage
of a swell in support that followed increases to civil servant
salaries and cash payments to poor households.  Police Cordon  “The Malaysian government is once again showing its
contempt for its people’s basic rights and freedoms,” Phil
Robertson, deputy Asia director at New York-based  Human Rights
Watch , said in a statement today. “Despite all the talk of
‘reform’ over the past year, we’re seeing a repeat of repressive
actions by a government that does not hesitate to use force when
it feels its prerogatives are challenged.”  The authorities began cordoning off  Kuala Lumpur ’s
Independence Square yesterday after getting a court order
preventing people from entering the area where Bersih planned a
sit-in. Crowds marched in groups toward the square from
different parts of the city, including the 88-floor Petronas
Twin Towers.  One police car was overturned and a gun snatched by a
protester, a Royal Malaysia Police spokesman said. The pistol
was later retrieved, Hishammuddinsaid in a Twitter posting. Two
officers were admitted to hospital with injuries and 20 others
received outpatient treatment, he said.  Lynas Upset  Around 25,000 people took part in the rally, Bernama
reported, without citing where it got the information. While
primarily a pro-democracy rally, some called on the government
to block plans by Australian miner Lynas Corp. to start rare-
earth refining in the country on environmental and safety
concerns.  Smaller rallies were held in other Malaysian cities and
abroad, including Sydney.  Najib’s approval rating in peninsular  Malaysia  fell to a
two-year low of 59 percent a month after last year’s protests,
according to the  Merdeka Center for Opinion Research . It
increased to 69 percent in February after the government
announced it would give away cash handouts of 500 ringgit ($164)
to households with monthly incomes of 3,000 ringgit or less, and
overhaul security laws. The margin of error was 3.07 percent.  Bersih’s Demands  The government does allow protests, so long as they are
peaceful and held at appropriate venues, Bernama quoted Najib as
saying today.  Bersih is demanding that election officials resign after
failing to implement all but one of the group’s eight demands,
including a minimum 21-day campaign period, Ambiga Sreenevasan,
the group’s co-chairwoman, said April 24. She received a copy
yesterday of a court order from Kuala Lumpur Magistrates Court
Judge Zaki Asyraf Zubir that prohibits the public from joining
any rally at Independence Square until May 1.  Police used tear gas and water cannons to break up the July
rally attended by opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim , who suffered
a head injury in the crackdown. The group, whose name means
“clean” in the Malay language, wants its demands met before
the next poll, including the use of absentee ballots and a
review of the electoral roll to remove dead people and duplicate
voters.  Decelerating Growth  Najib’s ruling National Front coalition has made
preparations to call an election in May or June, according to
four officials who spoke last month. The vote required by early
next year will take place amid decelerating growth in  Southeast
Asia ’s third-biggest economy.  Gross domestic product is set to grow 4 percent in 2012 on
a weak global outlook, slower than regional rivals Indonesia,
Thailand and  Vietnam , according to the  Asian Development Bank .
That compares with last year’s 5.1 percent rise.  Earlier this month, a parliamentary committee that includes
opposition members made 22 recommendations to improve the
election process. The government, which agreed to Bersih’s
proposal to use indelible ink on fingers to prevent multiple
voting, isn’t legally bound to follow the committee’s advice.  The Election Commission denied that voter registration
rolls are flawed and said it would ensure at least a 10-day
campaign period, according to a  statement  on its website.  In 2008, when eight days of campaigning preceded elections,
Najib’s National Front coalition won by the narrowest margin
since independence in 1957. A Bersih rally held three months
before the vote increased momentum for the opposition, according
to Joseph Chinyong Liow, associate dean of the S. Rajaratnam
School of International Studies in  Singapore .  “I’m sure this weighs on Prime Minister Najib’s mind,” he
said. “It’s very clear already that the opposition has every
intention to piggyback on Bersih.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  