-- Venizelos Promises Greeks More Gradual Adjustment, No New Taxes
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-04-28T12:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/venizelos-promises-greeks-more-gradual-adjustment-no-new-taxes.html
Evangelos Venizelos,  Greece ’s
former finance minister, said the socialist  Pasok  party he now
leads aims to make Greece an equal partner in the European Union
and end the country’s reliance on international financial aid by
the end of 2015.  “Our aim is to shape a clear and stable framework that
will gradually reduce Greece’s dependence on financial aid,”
Venizelos said in a speech in Athens today, shown live on state-
run NET TV. “Our aim is for Greece to be a fiscally self-
sustaining and equal member of  Europe ” and “to gradually exit
the loan agreement, with dependency ending in three years.”  Following May 6 elections, a new government must in June
spell out to the European Union and  International Monetary Fund 
how it will find 11 billion euros ($14.6 billion) of budget cuts
for 2013 and 2014. Venizelos said Pasok aims to extend these
measures over a three-year period to the end of 2015 rather than
over the next two years.  Pasok would make structural changes and cut spending, and
wouldn’t introduce new taxes nor make widespread cuts to
pensions and wages, Venizelos said. “No Greek man or woman
should live with the fear of the June measures.”  With the last opinion polls, before a two-week ban on their
publication, showing no party winning enough votes to govern on
its own, Venizelos said Pasok would not enter a possible
coalition just for the sake of being in government.  Liquidity Agreements  Venizelos said a prerequisite for growth in Greece is
improved liquidity and that a Pasok government would get the
country’s banks to sign liquidity agreements with the state to
ensure money is channeled to businesses. “The heart of the
problem of growth is liquidity and growth means having money in
the market.”  A Pasok government would ensure a fair and stable tax
system as the greatest benefits to an economy are reductions to
income tax, social security contributions and indirect taxes,
Venizelos said. Measures including the reduction of social
charges by 5 percent, a gradual cut to excise and sales taxes,
the removal of a crisis levy on wages as well as the replacement
of a special property levy with the introduction of an all
inclusive real-estate tax would cost no more than 1 percent of
gross domestic product, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in  Athens  at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net 
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Foxwell  at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  