-- Wigan Routs Newcastle to Help Premier League Survival Chance
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-28T18:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-28/wigan-routs-newcastle-to-boost-premier-league-survival-chances.html
Wigan routed Newcastle 4-0 today to
boost its chances of remaining in English soccer’s Premier
League next season.  Victor Moses scored two goals as Wigan climbed to 16th in
the 20-team league with 37 points, three more than Bolton in the
last of the three relegation spots at the bottom of the
standings. Bolton tied 2-2 at Sunderland.  Aston Villa drew 0-0 at West Bromwich to help its
relegation fight, Arsenal tied 1-1 at Stoke, Everton defeated
Fulham 4-0, relegated Wolverhampton rallied for a 4-4 draw at
Swansea and Liverpool won 3-0 at Norwich.  Wigan scored four times in the first half in ending
Newcastle’s six-match winning streak.  The Latics started quickly as Moses scored twice in the
opening 15 minutes. Shaun Maloney added a goal in the 36th
minute and Di Santo looped a shot into the top corner from about
20 yards out just before halftime.  Newcastle’s loss dropped it four points behind Arsenal in
the race for third place and a berth in the  Champions League .
Arsenal has 66 points and Newcastle has 62 from one fewer game.  Stoke’s  Peter Crouch  headed in Matthew Etherington’s cross
in the ninth minute before Arsenal’s  Robin van Persie  answered
with his league-leading 28th goal six minutes later.  Bolton remained in the relegation zone after rallying to
tie Sunderland.  Kevin Davies  gave Wanderers the lead in the 26th
minute, before Nicklas Bendtner and James McClean scored for
Sunderland.  34 Points  Davies then scored with a header in the 70th minute. Bolton
is even with Queen’s Park Rangers with 34 points, but remains in
the final relegation place because of an inferior goal
difference.  Aston Villa goalkeeper Shay Given stopped  Peter
Odemwingie ’s shot in the final minute to preserve his team’s
draw at West Brom. Villa remains in 15th place, three points
above relegation.  Last-place Wolverhampton, which was relegated last week,
rallied in the second half to draw with Swansea.  Andrea Orlandi, Joe Allen, Nathan Dyer and Danny Graham
scored as Swansea took a 4-2 halftime lead over Wolves, which
got goals from Steven Fletcher and  Matt Jarvis . Dave Edwards and
Jarvis then scored after the break to earn Wolves the point.  Nikica Jelavic scored twice as Everton extended its
unbeaten run to six games. Jelavic has 10 goals in 13 games
since joining Everton from Rangers in January.  Luis Suarez  scored all the goals as Liverpool sent Norwich
to its third straight loss. He scored twice in the first half,
then completed his hat trick in the 82nd minute with a lob over
goalkeeper John Ruddy from just inside the Norwich half of the
field.  Chelsea hosts Queen’s Park Rangers and Blackburn visits
Tottenham in tomorrow’s games. League leader Manchester United
is at second-place  Manchester City  in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 