-- Abe Boosting Rice Output Means Deeper Slump in Corn Imports
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-07-22T02:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/abe-boosting-rice-output-means-deeper-slump-in-corn-imports.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s drive to
double farm income and expand  Japan ’s feed-rice output eightfold
over the next decade may accelerate a decline in corn imports,
according to the farm ministry.  “Demand for rice as a corn substitute is potentially
huge,” said Tsuyoshi Yoshida, assistant director at the grain
division of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.
The ministry will consider increasing subsidies to growers of
rice for  animal feed , Yoshida said in an interview on July 17,
after the ruling Liberal Democratic Party set an annual output
target of as much as 1.5 million metric tons by 2023. Output was
183,400 tons last year and as little as 9,500 tons in 2008.  Corn imports by Japan, the world’s biggest buyer, fell for
the last seven years as prices in  Chicago  surged as much as
fourfold since 2006. The yen’s depreciation since Abe became
leader in December is increasing costs for feed makers in the
third-largest economy, which imports almost all its corn.  The government pays 80,000 yen ($800) annually to farmers
for the equivalent of every 1,000 square meters of land they
cultivate with feed rice under a supply agreement with feed
makers. Any increase in the payment would be the first since
2010, Yoshida said.  Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  and its coalition partner
won a majority of upper house seats in the weekend vote,
boosting his ability to carry out a plan of monetary easing,
fiscal stimulus and deregulation known as Abenomics.  Corn for delivery in December fell 0.8 percent to $4.9675 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 11:34 a.m.  Tokyo  time.
Futures plunged 29 percent this year after gaining for the past
four years and touching a record $8.49 last year.  Corn Imports  Japan’s corn imports fell 7.3 percent to 6.03 million tons
in the first five months of 2013, farm ministry data show, after
tumbling to 14.9 million tons in 2012, the least since 1986.  Inbound shipments may shrink by about 400,000 tons this
year as higher prices weaken demand, said  Nobuyuki Chino , the
president of Tokyo-based Continental Rice Corp., who has traded
grains for more than three decades.  Brazil  may become Japan’s largest corn supplier for the
first time this year, as the South American nation starts to
beat U.S. producers on price, Chino said on July 12.  Shipments from Brazil reached 2.76 million tons in the five
months through May 31, surpassing 2.52 million tons from the
U.S., farm ministry data show.  Argentina  was the third-largest
supplier with 338,541 tons.  About 10 million tons of the grain imported in 2012 was for
feed use and Japanese rice could eventually displace 70 percent
of this, Yasuhiro Ozato, the head of the Liberal Democratic
Party’s farm policy committee, said on July 12.  Higher Yields  The government wants to help researchers develop higher-yielding rice to double output and halve costs, Ozato said.  Boosting farmers’ incomes may help Abe win their support as
he seeks Japan’s entry into the Trans-Pacific Partnership free-trade agreement with nations including the U.S. and  Australia ,
the biggest suppliers of pork and beef to Japan.  Japan’s combined annual farm income halved to 3.2 trillion
yen over the past two decades as domestic output shrank and food
prices fell, according to the Norinchukin Research Institute, a
Tokyo-based affiliate of the bank that serves the nation’s
agricultural, fishing and forestry cooperatives.  “The ruling party is trying to alleviate farmers’ concern
that the trade agreement would boost shipments of cheap meat and
dairy products, dealing a blow to local livestock producers,”
said Takaki Shigemoto, an analyst at research company JSC Corp.
in Tokyo.  Japan will join talks for the TPP July 23. Abe may
sacrifice barriers protecting Japan’s beef, pork and dairy
products to maintain tariffs on rice and sugar, said Masayoshi Honma, a professor of agricultural economics at the  University
of Tokyo , who advised Abe during his first term as prime
minister in 2007. The nation doesn’t impose duties on feed corn.  “The LDP has promised a lot to farmers,” said Tetsuro Shimizu, general manager at Norinchukin Research Institute. “I
wonder how feasible these promises are because the government is
struggling with a swelling fiscal deficit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  