-- Abe Win Sets Up Next Battle as Japan Reform Fights Loom
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s ,   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-07-22T00:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/abe-coalition-projected-to-win-japan-upper-house-majority.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
winning of the first bicameral majority for the ruling coalition
in six years sets up an internal government battle as he seeks
to revamp economic to defense policies.  Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  and its New Komeito ally
will have at least 133 of the 242 seats in the upper house,
according to estimates by state broadcaster NHK. The former
ruling  Democratic Party  of  Japan  slid further into the margins
of politics after its collapse in lower house elections in
December, with the worst showing since its formation in 1998.  With the Diet avenues now cleared for the government’s
bills, the fight for Abe, 58, turns inward -- to convince his
enlarged party, and a public that turned out in fewer numbers
yesterday, that his program of change is worth enacting. Vested
interests are lined up against him on everything from making it
easier to  fire workers  to entering a U.S.-led free-trade zone.  “The important thing for Abe is to quell opposition in his
own party -- the opposition are no fear for him,” said Shuichi Obata, a senior economist in  Tokyo  at Nomura Securities Co., a
unit of the nation’s largest brokerage. “Speed is extremely
important for Abe, so that markets don’t feel he has let them
down with the growth strategy. He has to satisfy them within a
month,” using time before parliament resumes session to prepare
his legislation, Obata said.  The yen was trading at 99.91 per dollar at 9:05 a.m. in
Tokyo, up 0.7 percent from before the election. The Nikkei 225
Stock Average opened 0.7 percent higher.  Stock Market  The  Topix Index (TPX)  of stocks has climbed 59 percent in the
past eight months on optimism that Abe’s three-pronged economic
strategy of monetary stimulus, a flexible fiscal stance and
business deregulation will end two decades of malaise. The yen
has tumbled about 19 percent against the dollar in that time,
offering exporters a more competitive  exchange rate .  Abe has already seen how quickly investor sentiment can
turn. When he delivered a speech previewing his structural
reform agenda that omitted details and showed no legislation
would be planned for months, the Topix tumbled 3.2 percent.  Decisions loom on whether to cut the corporate tax burden;
reduce labor regulations dating from the 1960s that offered
lifetime employment at larger enterprises; make it easier to
consolidate agricultural land; allow greater access to foreign
goods and services through the Trans Pacific Partnership trade
talks; streamline the approval of medical-industry products;
restart nuclear reactors to cut energy costs; and address
funding shortfalls in the social-security system.  Sales Tax  Abe must also decide whether to proceed with a scheduled
increase in sales taxes designed to pare the fiscal deficit in a
nation with the world’s largest public debt burden. The prime
minister yesterday said that question will be answered around
the autumn, with economic data helping determine the call.  Turnout tumbled in the election, which coincided with the
first weekend of school holidays. The Asahi newspaper estimated
the share of voters casting ballots at 52.6 percent, down from
57.9 percent in 2010 and the lowest in an upper chamber election
since 1995.  “It’s not like there’s a groundswell of enthusiasm for
him,” said  Koichi Nakano , professor of politics at  Sophia
University  in Tokyo, in reference to Abe. “If he misreads that
and gets complacent, he could be punished very quickly in
cabinet support levels.”  Vote Tallies  The LDP won 34.9 percent of the proportional representation
vote with 89 percent of ballots tallied, the Asahi reported.
This is up from 24.1 percent in the 2010 upper house ballot,
according to the internal affairs ministry. The DPJ picked up
13.5 percent of votes, according to the Asahi, down from 31.6
percent in 2010. Competing for the first time, the Japan
Restoration Party won 11.8 percent of the vote, and the Japanese
Communist Party took 9.7 percent.  Half of the  upper house  seats were up for election
yesterday. The LDP is set to win at least 64 seats which, added
to its existing 50, will make 114, according to NHK. New Komeito
is projected to win at least 10 seats, making a total of a
minimum 19, the broadcaster estimated late last night.  The DPJ will win at least 15 seats, for a total of about
57, NHK calculated. The Japan Restoration Party, once seen as an
up-and-coming force, was limited to seven seats, adding to its
single existing upper house seat, NHK said.  “This is a powerful message telling me to proceed with my
economic policies,” Abe said on NHK after polls closed. “I
want to make sure people feel the effects of the economic
recovery as soon as possible.”  Island Dispute  Another choice for Abe is how great a focus to place on
strengthening defense and revamping the U.S.-occupation era
constitution. With  China  increasingly challenging Japan’s
administration of the Senkaku Islands, known as Diaoyu in
Chinese, the LDP has proposed buying first-strike weapons such
as cruise missiles. The party also has proposed amending the
pacifist constitution to legitimize Japan’s maintenance of armed
forces.  Abe said yesterday on NHK that he wanted to deepen the
debate on constitutional change in a calm and stable atmosphere.
He said Japan’s door was open to talks with China and declined
to say whether he would visit Yasukuni Shrine, which is
dedicated to Japan’s war dead including leaders convicted as
Class A war criminals by an Allied tribunal after World War II.  National Security  In Fukushima City, capital of the prefecture devastated by
the March 2011 tsunami and ensuing nuclear reactor meltdowns,
voters showed interest in both economics and national security.  “My expectations are for foreign policy,” said Masahiko
Kanno, 67, who said yesterday he voted for the LDP. “We should
take a firm stance toward China and  South Korea  on territorial
problems, history and so on,” he said. Japan is also enmeshed
in a dispute with South Korea over the administration of the
Dokdo Islands, known as Takeshima in Japan.  Tomoko Kida, a 27-year-old company employee on maternity
leave, said her focus in voting for the LDP was on the economy.
“Share prices are rising, but no one around me is feeling the
benefit. I want him to introduce some policies that raise
 wages. (JNLSUCTL) ”  Wages haven’t risen in Japan on a sustained basis since the
bursting of the asset bubble in the early 1990s, as companies
focused on fixing balance sheets and consumers reined in their
spending. Labor cash earnings fell 0.1 percent in May from a
year before.  Wage Malaise  Angst over incomes may deepen should Abenomics deliver on
its promise of inflation, without prompting companies to start
increasing compensation.  Among the burdens reducing the incentive for Japanese
companies to invest at home is the second-highest level of
effective corporate taxes in the Group of Seven nations,
executives say. The nation’s 35.6 percent corporate  tax rate 
compares with 25 percent in China and 17 percent in  Singapore ,
according to the Ministry of Finance. Only the U.S. has a higher
rate at 39.1 percent, according to Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development data.  “We want corporate taxes in line with other nations,”
Hiroshi Tomono, chairman of the Japan Iron and Steel Federation
and president of  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp. (5401) , said at a
gathering of industry leaders last week in Karuizawa, northwest
of Tokyo.  Abe, who took office as prime minister for the second time
in December after leading the LDP to victory in lower house
elections, has already overseen a recalibration of the nation’s
monetary policy. He installed inflation-target advocate Haruhiko Kuroda in March. Kuroda followed through with an unprecedented
plan to double the monetary base over two years.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices excluding fresh food are forecast to rise
0.3 percent in June from a year before, the first increase in 14
months, based on the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg news before a July 26 report.  Meantime, slowing growth risks stoking dissent among LDP
lawmakers just as Abe embarks on his reform legislation. Gross
domestic product rose an annualized 2.8 percent in the three
months through June, compared with 4.1 percent in the first
quarter, a survey of 29 economists by Bloomberg indicates.  “Abe has a window of opportunity to undertake real
reforms” if he’s willing to use his political capital, said
 Takuji Okubo , chief economist at Japan Macro Advisors in Tokyo,
who formerly worked at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “Members within
Abe’s LDP with vested interests will be against reforms --
especially on health care, pensions and agriculture.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in 東京 at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Davis  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  