-- Alex Rodriguez’s Season Debut for Yankees Pushed Back by Strain
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-22T05:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/alex-rodriguez-won-t-rejoin-yankees-because-of-quadriceps-strain.html
Alex Rodriguez ’s season-debut for
the  New York  Yankees has been pushed back because of a strained
left quadriceps muscle that will keep him out indefinitely.  Rodriguez said last week that he’d rejoin the Yankees today
for the start of a four-game series in  Texas  against the
Rangers. Rodriguez hasn’t played in  Major League Baseball  this
season while recovering from left hip surgery in January and had
a scan on his thigh yesterday after experiencing tightness
during a July 20 minor-league rehabilitation game.  Rodriguez, who turns 38 on July 27, said in a statement
that he’s “extremely disappointed with the results of the MRI”
and hopes to return as soon as possible. The Yankees said in a
news release that Rodriguez will return to Tampa, Florida, for
rest and treatment.  Rodriguez will remain on the disabled list, though he can
no longer play in official minor league games because the 20-day
window for his rehab stint expired, the team said.  The Yankees, who have also had  Mark Teixeira ,  Derek Jeter 
and Curtis Granderson experience setbacks in their return from
injuries, said they may petition MLB for an additional rehab
assignment for Rodriguez.  A 14-time All-Star and three-time American League Most
Valuable Player, Rodriguez hasn’t played in the majors since
last season’s playoffs, when he batted .120, with three hits and
12 strikeouts in 25 at-bats. He was benched at times during the
postseason, and had surgery in January on his torn labrum.  The Miami New Times reported that month that Rodriguez’s
name was included on a client list at the Biogenesis of America
LLC clinic in Coral Gables, Florida, which was selling
performance-enhancing drugs. ESPN reported in February that
Biogenesis founder Anthony Bosch injected Rodriguez with banned
substances, and the network said earlier this month that MLB
commissioner  Bud Selig  would seek to suspend as many as 22
players without pay for their relationship with Biogenesis.  Rodriguez, who is fifth on baseball’s career list with 647
home runs, has said he wasn’t a patient of Bosch and declined to
comment on the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  