-- Australia Says Spike in Refugees Makes PNG Policy Unavoidable
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-07-21T02:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/australia-says-spike-in-refugees-makes-png-policy-unavoidable.html
Australia ’s decision to refuse entry
to refugees arriving by boat and send them to Papua New Guinea
is necessary as the number of asylum seekers making the journey
rises to 3,000 a month, the government said.  “The spike makes it unavoidable,” Australian Foreign
Minister Bob Carr said today in an interview with  Sky News . “It
could rise further as people smugglers really close in and make
a financial killing. This is what refugee advocates, many of
them, and the Greens party can’t accept. The nature of the
problem has changed, and that requires a new, bolder solution.”  A boat with 81 passengers that was stopped yesterday in
waters off northwest Australia will be the first to face Prime
Minister  Kevin Rudd ’s “hard-line” policy on asylum seekers
announced July 19. Five people have drowned since July 12 in
incidents at sea between Australia and Indonesia, and the issue
has eroded support for the ruling  Labor Party  amid pledges by
opposition leader  Tony Abbott  to “stop the boats.”  Rudd has made asylum seekers a priority before elections
that must be held by the end of November.  “Any asylum seeker who arrives in Australia by boat will
have no chance of being resettled in Australia,” Rudd told
reporters in Brisbane July 19, standing alongside Papua New
Guinea’s Prime Minister Peter O’Neill. “If they’re found to be
genuine refugees they’ll be resettled in  Papua New Guinea .”  A$200,000 Bounty  Australian police will pay as much as A$200,000 ($183,000)
for information leading to the conviction of people smugglers,
Home Affairs Minister Jason Clare said in a statement today. The
criminal groups stretch from Australia to nations including
Indonesia,  Malaysia ,  Pakistan , Iran and  Iraq , he said.  The Greens party yesterday described the Labor plan on
refugees as cruel, while Scott Morrison, the Australian
opposition immigration spokesman, today reiterated Abbott’s
statements on July 19 that Rudd’s policy is light on detail.  “They haven’t even worked out how they are going to pay
for it, let alone what the procedures are going to be for
resettling in Papua New Guinea,” Morrison said in an interview
on Channel Ten. “And then, once they are resettled in Papua New
Guinea, what do they think they are going to do? It’s not that
hard to get from Papua New Guinea to Australia.”  Almost all of the passengers on the boat that was stopped
yesterday, made up of single men and families, are originally
from  Iran , Immigration Minister Tony Burke said yesterday at a
news conference broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Corp.  Two boats were intercepted July 19 off Australia, one
before the news conference to announce the refugee policy and
another during the event, Burke said.  Nauru Riot  Weekend newspapers in Australia carried the government’s
full-page advertisements promoting Rudd’s policy with the
message “if you come here by boat without a visa, you won’t be
settled in Australia.” A website set up to explain the plan
warned people not to risk their lives or money paying smugglers.  “I understand this is a very hard-line decision,” Rudd
said July 19. “Australians are people with hard heads but also
kind and compassionate hearts.”  The agreement with Papua New Guinea didn’t put a limit on
the number of people who could be sent there, he said.  Successive Australian governments have struggled with boat
arrivals from  Southeast Asia  since the late 1970s, when then-Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser granted entry to more than 2,000
refugees from the aftermath of the  Vietnam War .  Asylum seekers at a detention center in  Nauru  burned
buildings to the ground, causing about A$60 million in damage,
after a protest escalated into a riot on July 19, the ABC said.  Then-Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  last year reopened
processing centers in Papua New Guinea and Nauru, a return to
former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s policy of holding applicants
in offshore processing camps or remote onshore centers.  Budget Neutral  Australia will expand a detention center on Papua New
Guinea’s Manus Island about fivefold to house about 3,000 asylum
seekers, Burke said July 19. Children will be removed from the
center and the facilities will be improved, he said.  Rudd said the resettlement plan would be neutral for
Australia’s budget, with a statement on the costs of the policy
to be put forward later.  Rudd is seeking to build a platform ahead of the election,
announcing changes to policies put in place by Gillard that
proved unpopular with voters, including a pricing system for
carbon. Since he ousted Gillard last month in a party-room vote,
Rudd’s Labor has erased a deficit in opinion polls to Abbott’s
Liberal-National coalition.  More than 800 people, many from war-torn countries that
have used  Indonesia  as a stepping stone to seek asylum, have
died en route to the country since October 2009, according to
the Department of Immigration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Vercoe at 
 pvercoe@bloomberg.net  