-- England Takes 2-0 Lead in Cricket’s Ashes by Routing Australia
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-07-21T23:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/australia-slumps-to-48-3-on-fourth-day-of-ashes-cricket-test.html
England  routed Australia by 347 runs
to move to within one victory of winning its third straight
Ashes cricket series.  England bowled Australia out for 235 in the final over at
Lord’s in London yesterday, having set the touring team 583 for
to win after declaring its second innings on 349-7. Spinner
Graeme Swann took 4-78 to finish with nine wickets in the match.  England’s  third biggest  Test victory in terms of runs put
it 2-0 up in the best-of-five contest with three matches to
play. Australia in 1936-37 is the only team in the 131-year
history of Ashes cricket to have come back from 2-0 down to win
a series.  “We won’t be taking anything for granted or taking our
foot off the gas,” England captain  Alastair Cook , whose team
was three wickets down for 30 or less in both innings, said at a
news conference. “At certain moments in this game we were right
under the cosh. It’s huge credit to the lads that we’ve managed
to pull through.”  Should Australia fight back to draw 2-2 after losing the
first two matches -- something neither team has ever managed --
England would still retain the Ashes urn, having won their last
two series.  Former players including ex-England captain  Michael Vaughan 
said only the weather may prevent a 5-0 sweep.  “England are a different class to Australia at the
moment,”  Vaughan posted on Twitter. “For the first time I
think only rain will stop a whitewash.”  Cook Declares  England resumed yesterday at 333-5, a lead of 566 runs.
Jonny Bairstow got out for 20 and man-of-the match Joe Root, who
finished the previous day on 178, was unable to reach his double
century. He was caught by  Steve Smith  off  Ryan Harris  after
adding only two runs to his score.  Root’s dismissal prompted Cook’s declaration with his team
582 runs ahead. Australia then lost  Shane Watson ,  Chris Rogers 
and Phil Hughes to stumble to 48-3 at lunch.  Captain  Michael Clarke  and Usman Khawaja added 98 for the
fourth wicket before Clarke was caught by Cook off part-time
off-spinner Root for 51. Khawaja was also dismissed by Root, for
54, then Smith, Ashton Agar and  Brad Haddin  went cheaply.  Peter Siddle  was out for 18 and  James Pattinson  reached 35
before Swann trapped him leg-before-wicket to seal the victory.  England, which won the series opener in Nottingham by 14
runs, scored 361 in its first innings at Lord’s and Australia
slumped to 128 all out in reply. Cook highlighted the
contributions of Ian Bell, who scored 109 and 74, and 22-year-old Root.  ‘Right Character’  “He’s taken to international cricket extremely well,”
Cook said of Root. “It’s a lot about technique, but he has the
right character to succeed at Test cricket. He adapts his game
to whatever is required.”  Cook said he’s hopeful that batsman  Kevin Pietersen , who
left the game with a calf strain, will be fit for the next Test
beginning Aug. 1 at Old Trafford, Manchester.  Clarke said the 10-day gap will give Australia, which faces
English county team Sussex in a three-day match starting July
26, the chance to regroup.  “It was certainly not the performance we were after but
we’ve got some time now to make amends,” he said. “We’ll
continue to work hard in the nets and try to get right for
Manchester.”  While England has won its last four Tests and is unbeaten
in 10, Australia is on a six-match losing streak after a 4-0
sweep in India earlier this year.  Still, Clarke said it’s a realistic goal for his team to
win the remaining three Tests and clinch a series win.  “It’s going to be hard, there’s no doubt about it, but I’d
be silly to go into Manchester expecting to lose,” he said.
“We’ll do everything in our power to try and improve our game
because we need to do that, especially our batting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  