-- Australia’s Waning Boom Saps Mining Area Housing Demand
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-07-22T02:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/australia-s-waning-boom-saps-mining-area-housing-demand.html
After slashing the price of three
planned townhouses by a third in the coal-mining town of
Moranbah in remote northeastern Australia, agent Ricardo Baggio
still can’t find buyers.  “No one’s got confidence,” said Baggio from broker Ray
White Group’s Townsville franchise, about 550 kilometers (341
miles) north of Moranbah in Queensland state. “There are a few
mines around the town but they’re not hiring or they’re
downsizing.”  Home prices in Australia’s isolated mining towns, which
outpaced increases in the rest of the nation over the past
decade, are falling as companies such as  Glencore Xstrata PLC (GLEN) 
and  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  delay projects and lay off workers amid
a slowing resources boom. The percentage of homeowners more than
30 days behind on their mortgage payments in Gladstone, a
Queensland coastal town near more than $60 billion of gas
projects, was 0.94 percent in March, according to  Fitch Ratings ,
a 71 percent increase in six months.  The Moranbah townhouses, which will be built on a flat,
sparsely landscaped street about 1 kilometer from the center of
town, are on the market for A$525,000 ($478,485) each, down from
an initial price of A$750,000, said Baggio. The median price of
a home in Brisbane, the state capital, is A$425,000.  Prices in mining regions could fall as much as 30 percent
from a first-quarter peak, real estate-data company  SQM Research
Pty  forecasts.  Demand for housing in central Queensland and Western
Australia state’s arid Pilbara region, the nation’s two biggest
mining areas, is waning as record investment in resources peaks
even as property developers keep building more homes. About
A$150 billion of mining and energy projects have been canceled
in the past year as commodity prices declined, according to
government figures.  Population Drops  “We expect we’ll see an abrupt dropoff in population flows
in mining towns,” Sydney-based  Matthew Hassan , senior economist
at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , said in a telephone interview. “How
that plays back to housing is extremely complex. But we know the
direction: down.”  In Western Australia, while only 1.6 percent of borrowers
were late on their home-loan payments in March, “vulnerability
in the mining sector and associated projects could result in an
increase in arrears during the year,” ratings company  Standard
& Poor’s  said in a March 31 report.  Significant Fluctuations  In Queensland’s Isaac region, which includes Moranbah, home
prices tumbled 43 percent in the year to April, and rents
slumped 69 percent, according to Sydney-based Australian
Property Monitors.  Moranbah, about 1,000 kilometers inland northwest of
Brisbane and home to more than 8,000 people, is near coal
projects owned by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Rio
Tinto Ltd. (RIO)  BHP last year closed part of its Gregory coal mine,
south of the town, and in February said it wants to sell the
mine. Anglo American Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said
June 26 that the outlook for coal mining is “grim.” An index
of  hard-coking coal  has more than halved since January 2011,
when it peaked at $365.83 a metric ton, according to data from
Energy Publishing Inc. compiled by Bloomberg.  Mining towns “are prone to significant fluctuations in
property valuations, often driven by a combination of changes in
the resource market and the shifting need for accommodation for
mining workers,” Michael Savery, chief risk officer at QBE
Insurance Group Ltd.’s Lenders Mortgage Insurance unit, said in
an e-mail. They “require monitoring at either end of the
property market cycle.”  Rockhampton Value  In Gladstone, about 500 kilometers north of Brisbane,
property prices are falling as buyers find better value
elsewhere. The median home price has fallen 4.6 percent in the
year through April to A$450,500, while in Rockhampton, 116
kilometers further north in a region that is dominated by
livestock grazing, it has risen 5.4 percent over the past year
to A$350,000, APM said.  Housing markets in mining towns “have gotten ahead of
themselves in terms of fundamentals and we’ve had a speculative
market,” said  Andrew Wilson , senior economist at APM. “A lot
of potential buyers, especially those employed in the region,
are looking at less expensive markets, like Rockhampton.”  House and apartment prices across Australia’s major cities
rose 3.8 percent in June from a year earlier, according to the
RP Data-Rismark home value index, after the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia lowered its key  interest rate  by 2 percentage points
between late 2011 and May to a record low 2.75 percent.  Pilbara Weakness  Australia had 73 committed mining projects under
development in April, 14 less than in October, according to a
May report by the Bureau of Research and Energy Economics. The
number of people employed in Australia’s mining industry was 6
percent lower in May from a year earlier, government data shows.  Glencore Xstrata, the world’s biggest shipper of coal,
halted work on the Balaclava Island export terminal, about 40
kilometers north of Gladstone, in May and cut 450 coal mining
jobs in June. It said this month it will suspend production at
its magnetite  iron ore  operation near Cloncurry, about 1,300
kilometers west of Gladstone in inland Queensland.  Across the country, more than 5,000 kilometers west by road
from Gladstone, in the Western Australian shire of Roebourne,
rents have plunged 22 percent in the 12 months to April, while
the median house price has slipped 3.5 percent to A$796,000, APM
figures showed.  Roebourne includes Karratha, the biggest town in the
Pilbara, a 193,000-square-mile area in Australia’s northwest
that is the world’s largest iron ore exporting region.  The recent home price declines in the Pilbara follow
average annual gains of almost 20 percent for the past 10 years
in the two coastal towns of Karratha and  Port Hedland , according
to data from the Real Estate Institute of Western Australia.  Aspen Group  Aspen Group Ltd. (APZ) , a Perth-based property investment
company, said July 5 in a regulatory filing that it reduced by
13 percent the valuation of its 180-unit Karratha Village
accommodation facility to A$50 million in December, reflecting
“a reduced demand for workforce participation.”  Shares in Aspen are 22 percent lower this year and closed
at 17.5 Australian cents on July 19.  The price of  iron ore  fell 31 percent from a 16-month high
in February to a low of A$110.40 on May 31.  Pilbara Cities  The Western Australian government introduced the Pilbara
Cities initiative in November 2009 to boost supply of land,
housing and infrastructure in the region. It seeks to build
Karratha and Port Hedland into cities of 50,000 people by 2035.
That compares with the 2011 census that recorded 16,475 people
in Karratha and 13,772 in Port Hedland.  As part of the initiative,  Mirvac Group (MGR) , Australia’s third-largest diversified property trust, is proposing to build the
Mulataga community in Karratha, containing 2,000 homes.  “We look at Karratha as a sustainable city and the growth
of that city over time as a permanent city,” said John Carfi,
head of residential at Sydney-based Mirvac, which is working
with the state’s land developer Landcorp on Mulataga.  The Mulataga plan received approval from the Shire of
Roebourne in May and is awaiting state planning commission
approval.  The number of homes for sale in Karratha rose to 265 in May
from 219 a year earlier, SQM said.  Further Declines  “We haven’t hit the bottom of the market yet,” said David
Hipworth, principal of broker  LJ Hooker Corp. in Karratha . “If
we keep going the same way we have so far, in 12 months, I
expect another 25 percent drop in rents and 10 percent in
prices.”  The April median home price in Port Hedland was A$1.1
million, APM data show. That compares with 448,443 pounds
($677,508) in the greater London area in April, according to  LSL
Property Services  Plc and $346,300 in  New York City  in May,
figures from real estate data provider Zillow Inc. show.  “We like to see these prices fall,” said Ken King, chief
executive officer of the  Pilbara Development Commission , which
is responsible for implementing the Pilbara Cities plan. “And
we’d like to see the trend continue, even though this doesn’t
sit well with a lot of recent investors.”  About 240 kilometers north along the coast from Karratha,
rental vacancies in Port Hedland jumped to 4.6 percent in May
from 0.9 percent a year earlier, compared with a national
vacancy rate that rose to 2.1 percent from 1.8 percent a year
ago, according to SQM.  BHP shelved a A$22 billion harbor expansion plan for Port
Hedland in August in favor of a low capital-cost program of
improving port and rail operations. CEO  Andrew Mackenzie  in May
said the company plans to cut capital spending 18 percent to $18
billion in fiscal year 2014 and said about 80 percent of
construction on its major projects will be completed in the same
time frame.  Apartment Buildings  Australia’s resources industry directly employed 261,000
people in May, 2.2 percent of the nation’s total workforce,
compared with 12 percent in health care and 11 percent in retail
services -- the two largest industries by employment, government
figures showed.  Outstanding loans in Australia’s mining areas represent
about 1.5 percent of all mortgages underlying residential
mortgage-backed securities, S&P said in a report in September.  Perth-based developer  Finbar Group Ltd. (FRI)  is building
Karratha’s first high-rise apartment development, Pelago, in the
center of town. All but 15 units in the 114-apartment first
phase, which was finished about a year ago, have been sold,
Robin Schneider of McGees Property, the exclusive selling agent
for the project, said in a telephone interview. In the second
phase, 81 of the 174 units that are expected to be completed
next year were pre-sold as of June 2, he said.  “Obviously the resources sector is getting a lot of
attention, which will no doubt have a flow-on effect to
confidence and  market sentiment ,” Darren Pateman, managing
director of Finbar, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net  