-- Australia Says Bolder Refugee Policy Needed as Arrivals Rise
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-07-22T05:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/australia-says-bolder-refugee-policy-needed-as-arrivals-surge.html
Australia ’s decision to refuse entry
to refugees arriving by boat and send them to Papua New Guinea
is necessary as the number of asylum seekers making the journey
soars, the government said.  “The spike makes it unavoidable,” Australian Foreign
Minister Bob Carr said yesterday in an interview with Sky News.
“It could rise further as people smugglers really close in and
make a financial killing. This is what refugee advocates, many
of them, and the Greens party can’t accept. The nature of the
problem has changed, and that requires a new, bolder solution.”  A boat with 81 passengers that was stopped July 20 in
waters off northwest Australia will be the first to face Prime
Minister Kevin Rudd’s policy announced the previous day. Five
people have drowned since July 12 in incidents at sea between
Australia and  Indonesia , and the issue has eroded support for
the ruling Labor Party amid pledges by opposition leader Tony Abbott to “stop the boats.”  Rudd, who today won changes to Labor party rules to prevent
further mid-term leadership challenges, has made asylum seekers
a priority before elections that must be held by the end of
November. Abbott has called the asylum seeker plan “a pre-election fix.”  Australia put a A$200,000 ($184,000) bounty on people
smugglers, offering rewards for information leading to
convictions and targeting criminal groups stretching from
Australia to nations like Indonesia,  Malaysia ,  Pakistan ,  Iran 
and  Iraq , the government said yesterday.  Ad Campaign  Weekend newspapers in Australia carried the government’s
full-page advertisements with the message “if you come here by
boat without a visa, you won’t be settled in Australia” and a
photo of a fishing boat at sea.  “Any asylum seeker who arrives in Australia by boat will
have no chance of being resettled in Australia,” Rudd told
reporters in Brisbane July 19. “If they’re found to be genuine
refugees they’ll be resettled in Papua New Guinea. I understand
this is a very hard-line decision.”  The new policy can withstand any legal challenge, said
Carr, who estimated that about 3,000 asylum seekers are arriving
by boat each month with the number potentially surging to 40,000
to 50,000 people annually. The agreement with Papua New Guinea
didn’t put a limit on the number of people who could be sent
there.  The country’s Greens party has described the Labor plan  as
cruel, while Abbott and Scott Morrison, the opposition
immigration spokesman, have said it is light on detail.  ‘Back Door’  “I don’t hold it against anyone wanting to come to
Australia but you’ve got to come the right way, not the wrong
way,” Abbott told reporters today in  Melbourne . “You’ve got to
come in through the front door, not the back door. This
particular deal is unraveling before our very eyes. It’s not
legally binding.”  Almost all of the passengers on the boat that was stopped
July 20, made up of single men and families, are originally from
Iran, Immigration Minister Tony Burke said that day at a news
conference carried by the Australian Broadcasting Corp.  Two boats were intercepted July 19 off Australia, one
before the news conference to announce the refugee policy and
another during the event, Burke said.  Nauru Riot  Asylum seekers at a detention center in Nauru burned
buildings to the ground, causing about A$60 million in damage,
after a protest escalated into a riot on July 19, the ABC said.  Successive Australian governments have struggled with boat
arrivals from Southeast Asia since the late 1970s, when then-Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser granted entry to refugees in the
aftermath of the Vietnam War.  Last year, then-Prime Minister Julia Gillard reopened
processing centers in Papua New Guinea and  Nauru , a return to
former Premier John Howard’s policy of holding applicants in
offshore processing camps or remote onshore centers.  Australia will expand the detention center on Papua New
Guinea’s Manus Island about fivefold to house some 3,000 asylum
seekers, Burke said July 19.  More than 800 people, many from war-torn countries that
have used Indonesia as a stepping stone to seek asylum, have
died en route to the country since October 2009, according to
the Department of Immigration.  Rudd is seeking to build a platform ahead of the election,
announcing changes to policies put in place by Gillard that
proved unpopular with voters, including a pricing system for
carbon. Since Rudd ousted Gillard last month in a party-room
vote, Labor has erased a deficit in opinion polls to Abbott’s
Liberal-National coalition.  Rule Changes  Protesters rallied against Rudd’s refugee policy outside
the building in Sydney today where caucus met to approve his
party rule changes.  Labor’s leader will jointly be elected by party lawmakers
and rank and file members in a move that will reduce the power
of factional powerbrokers, Rudd told reporters in Sydney after
caucus backed his plan. While in government, the leader can now
only be ousted if at least 75 percent of Labor lawmakers sign a
petition requesting a ballot because the leader brought the
party into disrepute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  