-- Banks’ Size Is Greater Threat Than Complexity
-- B y   R e d   J a h n c k e
-- 2013-07-21T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/banks-size-is-greater-threat-than-complexity.html
Senators from both sides of the
political divide are displaying an encouraging resolve to break
up the country’s biggest banks. Unfortunately, they’re focusing
too much on the complexity of big bank operations and ignoring
the greater threat entailed in their enormous size.  Earlier this month, a bipartisan group of senators, led by
Democrat  Elizabeth Warren  and Republican  John McCain , introduced
a piece of  legislation  known as the “21st Century Glass Steagall
Act.” In just 30 pages, the legislation re-separates federally
insured commercial banking from all other types of diversified
financial activities, including insurance, securities
activities, derivatives operations and hedge-fund and private-equity investments. It is aimed squarely at our too-big-to-fail
banks, just five of which command about two-thirds of all the
industry’s assets.  The bill represents a welcome re-awakening from the
nightmare of the Dodd-Frank financial reform act, which
attempted -- through thousands of pages of rules -- to contain
the risk of megabanks without reducing their size. Three years
after the passage of Dodd-Frank, about 60 percent of the rules
have yet to be completed. They include the so-called Volcker
rule, which is supposed to separate trading undertaken to serve
bank customers from “proprietary trading,” done purely to
generate profits for the bank. Regulators have also granted
banks a two-year reprieve from a requirement that they push out
derivatives trading into separate uninsured subsidiaries.  Falls Harder  The result: Our five largest banks are significantly bigger
than at the time of the crisis. Not only is such size dangerous
-- a $2.5 trillion bank falls harder than a half-trillion-dollar
bank -- but such concentration and industry domination is anti-competitive. Just four banks, for example, control 90 percent of
all U.S. banks’ derivatives activities.  Senators Warren and McCain are right to focus on mitigating
the threat posed by such giant, systemically important
institutions. But by resurrecting only the well-known separation
construct of the original Glass Steagall Act, their legislation
would do only half the job -- indeed, it would overdo it.  Today, size matters more than separation. Although highly
diversified financial activity is undeniably risky at the scale
of today’s megabanks, some degree of functional diversity is
desirable at much smaller scale. Diversification of all types is
an element of  risk reduction . What we need is size
diversification -- many more smaller banks, whether moderately
specialized or moderately diversified, carrying out the
functions now concentrated in a handful of banking behemoths.  One of the most powerful provisions of the original Glass
Steagall Act was Section 23, which effectively imposed a size
limit by mandating that federally insured commercial banks obey
the banking laws of their headquarters state. All states were
protectionist, prohibiting branching -- and, thus, deposit
gathering -- by out-of-state banks. No bank could gather enough
deposits within one state to become too big -- with the partial
exception of a few so-called money-center banks, which amassed
significant amounts of uninsured institutional deposits and
short-term debt borrowed in the money markets.  Of course, there’s no going back to yesteryear’s state-based size limits, so we have no choice but to impose a set of
numerical size limits. These could entail either inflation-adjusted dollar ceilings or limits on market share. There should
be constraints on assets and insured deposits, as well as on
short-term money-market borrowing as a percent of insured
deposits. Federal Reserve Board Governor  Daniel Tarullo  has
identified excessive reliance on short-term borrowing as a
particular threat to the safety and soundness of individual
megabanks and to the financial system as a whole.  Breaking Up  How to go about cutting the big banks down to size? The
first step must be a break-up, because forcing our existing
institutions to shrink would lead to a lending squeeze with
negative economy-wide consequences. After the break-up, size
ceilings can accomplish the task without constraining lending.  Breaking up is easy to do. Virtually all types of megabank
assets and operations can be sold in whole or in part. Indeed,
the big banks could even be split up proportionally, creating
mirror-image institutions to be spun off to current
stockholders. There’s no need to give the banks five years to
comply, as the Senate legislation does. The original Glass
Steagall Act took effect in one year.  Our forebears in 1933 had the courage to break up their big
banks, including the House of Morgan, the banking empire of the
most powerful banker of the era, John Pierpont Morgan Jr. We
must summon the same courage today, most prominently in the case
of the present-day goliath that bears his name.  (Red Jahncke is president of Townsend Group International
LLC, a business consulting firm in Greenwich,  Connecticut .)  To contact the writer of this article: Red Jahncke at
 RTJahncke@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  