-- Chinese City to Reopen Probe of Beijing Airport Bomber’s Claims
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-22T05:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/beijing-airport-bomber-highlights-threat-to-social-stability.html
Chinese authorities will reopen an
investigation into claims made by a man who detonated a bomb at
 Beijing Capital International Airport  after he had petitioned
the government for eight years to look into his case.  The southern city of Dongguan will examine Ji Zhongxing’s
assertions he sustained injuries after being beaten by public
security personnel in June 2005, the official Xinhua News Agency
said yesterday, citing the local government. The wheelchair-bound Ji, 34, set off the homemade device outside the exit to an
arrival hall on July 20, injuring his arm. He was the only one
hurt in the blast, Xinhua said.  Economic growth  that’s averaged 10.5 percent a year over
the past decade, limited local-government accountability and the
lack of independent public institutions have led to increasing
social conflict in  China . The risk is that those with grievances
will resort to more high-profile acts in bigger towns and cities
to draw attention to their plight.  Protests such as Ji’s “are the ultimate acts by those at
the bottom of society who are unable to find justice,” said  Wu
Qiang , a political scientist at Tsinghua University in Beijing
who studies social unrest. “They are taking their issues from
where they originated to big cities like Beijing, to sites where
people gather, to places that will ensure greater public
attention.”  The Chinese government is spending more on its police
forces, with expenditure on internal security set to rise 8.7
percent this year to 769.1 billion yuan ($125 billion), the
government reported in March. Domestic security spending has
exceeded outlays for national defense since 2010.  ‘Problematic System’  Operations weren’t disrupted by the explosion, according to
the airport’s official microblog. The level of security checks
was raised yesterday and all three terminals activated plans to
prevent explosions, according to a Beijing Evening News report
posted on the official People’s Daily website yesterday that
cited the airport police.  Beijing Airport handled 81.9 million passengers last year,
the world’s  second busiest  airport with Atlanta at No. 1,
according to  Airports Council International .  “Social conflicts at grass roots levels have reached an
unprecedented level as officials shield each other and the
petitioning system is problematic,” Hu Xingdou, a professor at
the School of Humanities and Social Sciences at Beijing
Institute of Technology, said in a telephone interview. “This
person may have chosen the international airport because he
wants to gain revenge on society and get more attention.”  Petitioning is the practice dating from imperial times by
which people take their complaints either to local officials or
directly to the capital.  Security Spending  The number of so-called mass incidents -- strikes, riots,
protests and other disturbances to social order -- doubled to
180,000 a year in 2010 from 2006 levels,  Tsinghua University 
sociologist Sun Liping wrote in 2010. The figures are no longer
published.  In June, a bus fire that killed 47 people in the city of
Xiamen was started by a man who planned the blaze to vent
personal grievances, Xinhua reported at the time.  In 2008, a 28-year-old unemployed man stabbed five officers
to death and wounded four at a police station in  Shanghai  in a
revenge attack for being suspected of stealing bicycles, the
city’s police department said.  Fractured Spine  Ji, the airport bomber, from Heze city in eastern Shandong
province, petitioned Dongguan authorities several times after a
conflict with public security guards in June 2005 left him with
a fractured spine and paralysis in his lower limbs, Xinhua
reported yesterday, citing an investigation by Heze authorities.
In 2010, local authorities paid him 100,000  yuan  ($16,300),
Xinhua said.  There is no evidence that police beat Ji, the Dongguan
government said on its official Weibo account yesterday.  At Beijing airport, Ji set off the bomb “like fireworks”
after he was stopped from handing out leaflets calling attention
to his complaints, Xinhua said in a separate report. Photographs
on the agency’s website on July 20 showed airport and medical
staff in a smoke-filled area of the arrival hall at Terminal 3
with police officers and other workers surrounding a person on
the ground near an empty overturned wheelchair.  Ji’s left hand was amputated as a result of the blast and
he was detained by police after being treated in the hospital,
the Southern Metropolis Daily reported, citing unidentified
doctors. His family had no idea how he obtained the explosives
and wasn’t sure of his whereabouts, Xinhua said.  The explosion was followed by thousands of postings on
microblogging sites denouncing social injustice. The incident
occurred days after a watermelon vendor in  Hunan province  died
after a clash with officials from the urban administration and
law enforcement bureau.  “It’s a great challenge for the government which not only
needs to handle the individual cases, but also to provide an
overall public security solution to the general public, who are
growing more anxious,” Wu said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Wenxin Fan in Shanghai at 
 wfan19@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  