-- Beijing Airport Bomber Sought Compensation After Beating
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-21T10:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/beijing-airport-bomber-sought-compensation-for-alleged-beating.html
A man in a wheelchair who detonated
a home-made bomb at Beijing International Airport yesterday was
seeking compensation for an alleged beating by public security
guards in 2005, state media reported.  The man, Ji Zhongxing, 34, was the only person hurt in the
explosion outside the arrival exit of Terminal 3 at about 6:24
p.m. local time, Xinhua reported, citing an initial police
investigation. Li, whose left hand was amputated as a result of
the blast, was taken by police from hospital, the Southern
Metropolis Daily said, citing unidentified doctors.  The explosion triggered an outcry on  China ’s Internet with
thousands of postings on microblogging sites denouncing social
injustice and violence that pose a threat to public security.
The incident occurred days after a watermelon vendor in southern
 Hunan province  died after a clash with urban management officers.  “Social conflicts at grass roots levels have reached an
unprecedented level as officials shield each other and the
petitioning system is problematic,” Hu Xingdou, a professor at
the School of Humanities and Social Sciences at Beijing
Institute of Technology, said in a telephone interview. “This
person may have chosen the international airport because he
wants to gain revenge on society and get more attention.”  Petitioning is the practice dating from imperial times by
which people take their complaints either to local officials or
directly to the capital.  Security Scare  The airport raised the level of security checks today and
all three terminals have activated plans to prevent explosions,
according to a Beijing Evening News report posted on the
official People’s Daily website that cited the airport police.  In a security scare this afternoon, police asked crowds at
the Terminal 3 exit to step away from an unattended bag and
called in two sniffer dogs before taking the item away.  A woman who answered the phone at the airport’s press
office today said she hadn’t received any notification that
security measures have been stepped up. “We will follow the
police department’s requirements to ensure security at the
airport,” she said, declining to give her name.  Ji, from Heze city in eastern Shandong province, set off
his explosive device at Beijing airport “like fireworks,”
after he was stopped from handing out leaflets calling attention
to his complaints, according to the Xinhua report.  Social Unrest  Photographs on Xinhua’s website yesterday showed airport
and medical staff in a smoke-filled area of the arrival hall
with police officers and other workers surrounding a person on
the ground near an empty upturned wheelchair. The airport said
on its official microblog site that operations weren’t disrupted.  Incidents such as Ji’s are becoming more common, said  Wu
Qiang , a political scientist at  Tsinghua University  in Beijing
who studies social unrest.  “Protesters are taking the issues from where they
originated to places where they can get greater public
attention,” he said. “It raises public awareness of social
problems as urban residents start to encounter them in their own
lives.”  In June, a bus fire that killed 47 people in the city of
Xiamen was started by a man who planned the blaze to vent
personal grievances, Xinhua reported at the time.  In 2008, a 28-year-old unemployed man stabbed five officers
to death and wounded four at a police station in  Shanghai  in a
revenge attack for being suspected of stealing bicycles, the
city’s police department said.  More Anxious  “It’s a great challenge for the government which not only
needs to handle the individual cases, but also to provide an
overall public security solution to the general public, who are
growing more anxious,” Wu said.  Ji was beaten by public security guards in Dongguan,
southern  Guangdong province , where he earned a living running an
unlicensed motorcycle taxi, according to a report in Blog Weekly,
a Beijing news magazine. Wounds to his lower body festered as he
was too poor to have them treated, the magazine said.  In 2008, Ji lost a lawsuit in Dongguan related to the 2005
clash with security guards, according to an article on the
website of the official Yangcheng Evening News based in
 Guangzhou , citing a  statement  released by the city government.
There was no evidence that his injuries were caused by the
alleged beating, it said.  In 2010, after Ji petitioned authorities in Beijing,
Dongguan police granted him 100,000  yuan  ($16,300) for
humanitarian assistance and he promised to stop petitioning,
according to the statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Wenxin Fan in Shanghai at 
 wfan19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  