-- Belgians Greet New King With Outpouring of Temporary Patriotism
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-07-21T12:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/belgians-greet-new-king-with-outpouring-of-temporary-patriotism.html
Belgium  put on a rare show of flag-waving patriotism to mark the departure of one king and the
arrival of another, and to temporarily forget the regional
tensions that gnaw at the country’s unity.  Crowds wearing the national colors of black, yellow and red
watched from the Brussels royal park as Albert II, 79, abdicated
and his son Philippe was installed in the federal parliament as
the seventh king since Belgium’s independence from the
Netherlands in 1830.  “Let us together give a new elan and sense of enthusiasm
to our country,” Philippe, 53, said in French, calling his oath
a “solemn promise.” The new king took his oath in the nation’s
three official languages -- French, Dutch and German.  Shouts of “Vive le roi” rang out and a 101-gun salute
sounded as Philippe and the new queen, Mathilde, boarded an
open-topped limousine with the license plate number 1 for a
horse-drawn escort to the palace. It was a coming-together
moment for the country of 11 million, which sits astride
 Europe ’s economic and cultural faultlines and saw Albert take an
active role mediating between the Flemish and Walloon regions
during his last years on the throne.  At the palace, the royal couple joined their four children
and a clutch of regally bred relatives for photos on the balcony
as the crowd drank high-alcohol beers and ate crispy, double-cooked French fries amid un-Belgian temperatures approaching 30
degrees Celsius (86 degrees Fahrenheit).  Manneken-Pis  Citizens who, like a recent prime minister, didn’t know the
national anthem toted newspaper fold-outs with the words in the
three official languages.  “Belgium is a tremendous country where life is good,”
Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo told the crowd.  The quirkier side of Belgium, which gave the world the
saxophone, surrealism and the Smurfs, was in full flourish.
 Manneken-Pis , a landmark Brussels statue of a small boy
answering nature’s call, marked the occasion by donning the
uniform of the Belgian revolutionaries who rebelled against
Dutch rule in 1830. The military theme will be reprised more
seriously later, with a parade and Belgian air force fly-by,
capped by fireworks.  Off-key notes were sounded by a few representatives and
senators from the richer northern region of Flanders, who
boycotted the inauguration ceremony to make their case for the
dissolution of Belgium, or at least of the monarchy.  No Crown  In keeping with the monarchy’s demure nature, the ceremony
was an oath-taking, not a coronation. The only crowns in
evidence were inflatable ones in the national tricolor, sported
by celebrants of all ages in the streets ringing the palace. Nor
does the new constitutional monarch get to keep his throne: the
gilt chair Philippe occupied during the investiture won’t be
used again during his reign.  Belgium’s kings -- in an all-male line tracing back to
Leopold I, of Bavarian stock -- play a more prominent role in
political life than other European royals, as Albert
demonstrated during the record 541-day stalemate that left the
country without a government after the 2010 election.  Albert oversaw eight attempts to break the deadlock, which
ended in December 2011 with the setup of a six-party coalition
headed by Di Rupo, the first native French speaker to run
Belgium since the 1970s.  Today’s formalities began with Albert signing the
abdication act before an audience of 250 government officials at
the palace. He urged them to “work unremittingly for the
cohesion of Belgium.”  Primogeniture Ends  While Albert followed  Pope Benedict XVI  and  Queen Beatrix 
of the Netherlands to extend this year’s trend of elder European
worthies quitting jobs-for-life, his abdication wasn’t a first
for Belgium.  Belgium’s king during World War II, Leopold III, was forced
out in 1951 amid charges that he was too amicably disposed to
the German occupiers. In an example of the political dexterity
that has held Belgium together, his successor, Baudouin, stepped
aside for 24 hours in 1990 to avoid responsibility for a law
liberalizing abortion.  Philippe -- spelled Filip in Dutch -- has 10 months to
prepare for the next political test, the elections of May 2014.
Polls show the most popular party in Flanders continues to be
the N-VA, which wants to gradually break the country in two.  Philippe’s wife, the former Mathilde d’Udekem d’Acoz, 40,
became Belgium’s first native-born queen consort. Thanks to a
1991 law that ended primogeniture, the couple’s eldest daughter,
11-year-old Elisabeth, is now in line to become the nation’s
first female monarch, unless the separatists have their way.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  