-- Boehner Won’t Say Whether Bill Should Address Citizenship
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-07-21T10:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/boehner-won-t-say-whether-bill-should-address-citizenship.html
House Speaker John Boehner
wouldn't take a stand on whether immigration law changes should
include a path to citizenship for 11 million undocumented
immigrants, saying he didn’t want to jeopardize passage of a
bill.  “As difficult as this issue is, me taking a hard position
for or against some of these issues will make it harder for us
to get a bill,” the Ohio Republican said in a taped interview
airing today on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.  The Senate last month passed a broad plan to rewrite
immigration laws, combining a path to citizenship for
undocumented immigrants already in the U.S. with a $46 billion
border-security program. Many House Republicans oppose a path to
citizenship, which Democrats say must be part of any immigration
plan.  Insisting on a “step-by-step approach” to immigration
law, Boehner again rejected the Senate bill, saying it “doesn’t
have enough serious triggers to protect our border.”  Under repeated questioning on the CBS program, he resisted
saying whether he would allow any bill on the House floor that
includes a path to citizenship.  “I’m not going to predict what’s going to be on the floor
and what isn’t going to be on the floor,” Boehner said. “And
that’s what you’re asking me to do. I can’t do that. And I don’t
want to do that.”  Congressional Delay  Boehner’s reluctance to state a position underscored the
difficulty congressional leaders face in trying to pass
immigration legislation this year. House Republicans, in
rejecting the Senate bill, decided to delay consideration of
their body’s own measures until later in the year. The drawn-out
process could spill into the 2014 mid-term election season and
jeopardize final negotiations.  “We’re dealing with this in a common-sense, step-by-step
approach,” Boehner said. “We want to deal with this in chunks,
chunks that the members can deal with and grapple with and,
frankly, chunks that the American people can get their arms
around.”  President  Barack Obama  has said he wants to sign
immigration legislation by the end of this year. Immigration
change has been the highest domestic priority in his second
term, after he won 71 percent of the Hispanic vote in November.
Republicans, in turn, want to boost their party’s appeal to
Hispanics after 2012 presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  promoted
self-deportation as an answer to illegal immigration.  Public Opinion  About 54 percent of voters favor eventual citizenship for
undocumented immigrants in the U.S., while 12 percent want to
let them stay without becoming citizens and 28 percent favor
deportation, according to a Quinnipiac University poll.  By a margin of 69 percent to 27 percent, Americans say
Republicans and Democrats in Congress will be unable to work
together to pass immigration changes because of political
gridlock, according to the survey conducted from June 28 to July
8 among 2,014 registered voters.  Acknowledging the gridlock, Boehner said finding common
ground is more difficult than it was a decade ago.  “We’re in a divided government,” he said, referring to a
Democratic-controlled Senate and White House and a Republican-controlled House. “We’re fighting for what we believe in.
Sometimes the American people don’t like this mess.”  Boehner, who swore off private negotiations with Obama
earlier this year, said, “We’ve had some more regular
conversations here in the last couple of months.” He said his
last talk with Obama was about a week ago, while declining to
say what was discussed.  While agreeing that Congress is unpopular, Boehner rejected
the idea that it’s been unproductive.  Health-Care Repeal  “We should not be judged by how many new laws we create,”
he said. “We ought to be judged on how many laws we repeal.”  To that end, Boehner renewed his vow to abolish Obama’s
health-care law after the House voted to postpone two of its key
provisions.  “Obamacare is bad for America,” Boehner said in excerpts
from the interview that were posted on the CBS program’s
 website . “We’re going to do everything we can to make sure that
it never happens.”  The House last week voted to delay by a year a mandate that
U.S. businesses with 50 or more workers provide their employees
with health insurance. The administration had already announced
the mandate would be postponed until 2015 to give businesses
more time to adjust.  The House also voted to delay a centerpiece of the new law:
a requirement that most Americans obtain health insurance by
2014 or pay a fine.  Obama defended the law on July 18, saying it’s helping push
health-care costs down.  Boehner also reiterated his desire to “fix our fiscal
situation” through tax reform and changes to entitlements such
as Social Security and Medicare.  Asked if such a goal is possible to achieve this year,
Boehner said, “Hope springs eternal. I’m an optimist.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  