-- Cameron Says Improving Economy May Allow U.K. to Reduce Taxes
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-21T13:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/cameron-says-improving-economy-may-allow-u-k-to-reduce-taxes.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
said the U.K. economy is “healing” and that should allow the
government to cut taxes.  “As we start to see the economy grow stronger -- and it is
growing stronger -- as we start to see the country improve,
actually I want to give people back some of their hard-earned
money and try to reduce their taxes,” Cameron said in an
interview on the  BBC ’s “Andrew Marr Show” broadcast today.
“Your economy does better if you say to people you’ve worked
hard, you’ve done the right thing, here is some of your own
money back in a tax reduction.”  With recent data showing strength in the economy, Cameron
may find it easier to achieve his deficit-reduction goals as
part of the biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II. Due to a
weaker-than-expected recovery after the global financial crisis,
Cameron’s Conservatives and their Liberal Democrat coalition
partners have had to extend budget cuts until 2017-18, beyond
the country’s next general election in 2015.  The government’s fiscal plans show “further need for
spending reductions in order to meet our deficit targets” and
“don’t include any plans for tax rises,” Cameron said.  The U.K. public have “set us this task of trying to turn
the country round, sort out the deficit, get the economy moving
again, build a country where hardworking people get rewarded,”
Cameron said. “They’ll judge us in 2015 and I hope to persuade
them that a Conservative-only government will be able to do even
more of that.”  Gaining Momentum  After returning to growth in the first quarter, Britain’s
economy has shown some signs of gaining momentum. Measures of
services, manufacturing and construction all improved in June
and recent reports have suggested rising house prices and
falling unemployment are spurring  consumer confidence .  Data this week will probably show  gross domestic product 
rose 0.6 percent in the second quarter, the most since 2012,
compared with 0.3 percent in the previous three months,
according to the median of 37 economist forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey. The Office for National Statistics will publish the
data, a first estimate, on July 25.  Lawmaker Caroline Flint, a spokeswoman on energy for the
opposition Labour Party, which has criticized many of the
government’s spending cuts, said Cameron’s economic strategy
hasn’t worked.  “We’ve seen a slight increase in growth, but nowhere near
what they forecast,” she said in a television interview on Sky
News. “It is fragile at the moment and I’m afraid this
government isn’t doing enough to help.”  Child Pornography  Cameron should break up the coalition next year so the
Conservatives can campaign more clearly as a separate political
party in the run-up to the general election, the Sunday
Telegraph cited Conservative lawmakers Graham Brady and Bernard Jenkin as saying.  “I want to govern as a Conservative-only government,”
Cameron said in his interview. “I’m aiming for victory and I’m
going to fight all out for victory, and I think victory is
achievable if we really roll up our sleeves and deliver.”  The prime minister will give a speech tomorrow on tackling
child pornography on the internet. He said today that Internet
companies need to block results for searches looking for child
abuse images, and that the government will look at bringing in
legal controls should they fail to comply.  “We need to have very, very strong conversations with
those companies about saying no, you shouldn’t provide results
for some terms that are so depraved and disgusting,” Cameron
said. “If we don’t get what we need we’ll have to look at
legislation.”  Syrian Conflict  On the conflict in  Syria , Cameron said the U.K. is sticking
with plans to only give non-lethal support to rebel forces.  “I would accept that we’re on a depressing trajectory and
we need to change that,” he said. “You’ve got an evil
president who’s doing dreadful things to his people, I think he
may be stronger than he was a few months ago, but I’d still
describe the situation as a stalemate.”  Asked about his plans to renegotiate the U.K.’s
relationship with the European Union ahead of a proposed
referendum in 2017 on Britain’s EU membership, Cameron said more
specific goals will be set out “over time.”  He is seeking to repatriate some powers and streamline
decision-making as part of an overhaul of the political bloc.  “I go into these negotiations optimistic and confident
that I can get a better deal for Britain,” he said. “I
wouldn’t be going down this path if I didn’t think it was
possible to get the result I want to achieve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  