-- China Freeing Lending Rates Puts Focus on Saver Returns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-22T06:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/china-move-to-free-lending-rates-puts-focus-on-low-saver-returns.html
The biggest step yet by  China ’s new
leaders to move the nation’s financial system toward market-set
lending rates heightens focus on what the central bank says is
an even tougher reform: lifting restrictions on savers’ returns.  The People’s Bank of China ended a floor on borrowing costs
previously set at 30 percent below the benchmark, it said  July
19 . The limit on  mortgage rates  will stay to curb property
speculation, the PBOC said. Also unchanged was a 10 percent
limit on what banks can offer over PBOC-set deposit rates.  Forcing banks to compete for funds would offer consumers
more spending power, while undermining the model of state-directed, subsidized credit bequeathed to Premier  Li Keqiang ,
who took office in March. At stake is phasing in reform as the
world’s second-largest  economy  slows and signs emerge of money
exiting the country.  “Reducing controls on deposit rates would have a far
bigger impact, boosting  household income  but also raising costs
for large borrowers that have become addicted to cheap credit,”
said  David Loevinger , former U.S. Treasury Department senior
coordinator for China affairs and now an emerging-markets
analyst at TCW Group Inc. in Los Angeles.  The PBOC itself said three days ago that deposit-rate
reform is “the most risky” part of liberalization. The central
bank currently sets the one-year lending rate at 6 percent, with
a one-year deposit rate of 3 percent.  Stock Slide  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks fell 0.3 percent as
of 1:28 p.m. local time, headed for the fourth straight drop,
with  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398)  among banks
trading lower. Macquarie Capital Securities Ltd. said prospects
for a narrower interest margin could hurt lenders’ stocks.  A government report July 15 showed gross domestic product
rose 7.5 percent in the second quarter from a year before,
extending the longest streak of sub-8 percent expansion in at
least two decades.  Separately, PBOC data today gave a sign of capital outflows
in June, as  yuan  positions at Chinese financial institutions
accumulated from foreign-exchange purchases fell for the first
time since November. Outflows may accelerate in the coming
months and liquidity will be tighter, said Liu Li-Gang, head of
Greater China economics at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. in Hong Kong.  While removing the floor for lending rates offers the
prospect for cheaper funding -- after a record liquidity squeeze
last month -- banks haven’t been availing themselves of the
leeway they previously had to charge less. In the first quarter
of 2013, about 11 percent of bank loans were made below the
benchmark rate, and about 64 percent above it, PBOC data show.  ‘Meaningful’ Drop  The figures indicate last week’s announcement won’t lead to
a “meaningful decline” in lending rates, although it may help
reduce borrowing costs for some state-owned enterprises who are
seen as less risky, UBS AG economists led by Hong Kong-based
 Wang Tao  said in a July 19 note.  Savers have for years suffered artificially low  deposit
rates  as the government subsidized state-owned enterprises
through the banking system by giving them cheap credit to spur
investment and economic growth. Freeing those rates would
benefit households and help the government’s long-stated goal of
rebalancing the economy away from its dependence on investment
and exports and toward consumption.  Returns on savings that have lagged behind inflation have
encouraged them to boost savings to meet target income levels,
according to a 2011  International Monetary Fund   working paper  by
Malhar Nabar.  Real Return  The report, which calculated that China’s urban household
savings rate rose to 30 percent of disposable income in 2009
from 19 percent in the mid-1990s, estimated a 1 percentage-point
increase in the real rate of return on  bank deposits  would lower
the savings rate by 0.6 percentage points.  Liberalizing deposit rates “could boost personal income by
at least 5 percentage points as a share of Chinese GDP and play
an important role in the long awaited pro-consumption
rebalancing,” said  Stephen Roach , a senior fellow at Yale
University’s Jackson Institute of Global Affairs and formerly
chief economist at Morgan Stanley.  For banks, such a step would spur competition at a time
when savers are already being lured away by riskier short-term
wealth management products offering returns as high as 6 percent
compared with the PBOC’s 3 percent benchmark one-year rate.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and Bank of Communications Co.
may be the two “worst positioned” for the end of the cap on
lending rates, according to Macquarie Capital Securities.  More Exposed  “Many will comment that banks’ net interest margin will be
under further pressure,” hurting sentiment toward Chinese banks,
said Victor Wang, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Macquarie. “In
theory, large banks with higher exposure to large corporate
lending have more to lose and are therefore more exposed.”  The nation’s listed banks slid last month, sending their
valuations near the lowest on record, after a cash crunch in the
 interbank market  exacerbated investors’ concern that earnings
growth will stall and defaults may surge as the economy slows.  At the same time, removing the lending floor will help
banks who may have been losing market share to the corporate
 bond market , where big Chinese companies could get cheaper
financing, said Robert Sinche, global strategist at Pierpont
Securities Holdings LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “This move allows them now to free up the rates at which
they are lending, so they can compete if they think it’s
appropriate,” he said.  Rate Overhaul  The PBOC began an overhaul of deposit rates in June last
year, when it allowed banks to offer as much as 10 percent above
the benchmark. The next step should be to raise the ceiling to
30 percent, the IMF said last week in its annual assessment of
 China’s economy  released before the PBOC’s announcement.  China isn’t ready to free up deposit rates, the PBOC said
in a statement July 19, highlighting that the nation lacks a
deposit-insurance system.  “According to successful international experience, opening
up deposit rates is the most critical and the most risky part in
interest-rate liberalization, and must be implemented gradually
and in an orderly process,” it said.  The U.S. phased out caps on deposit rates in the 1980s.  The PBOC hasn’t publicly given a timeframe for introducing
a deposit-insurance system, which would protect savers by
returning a portion of their deposits when a bank fails. Tao
Zhang, China’s IMF executive director, wrote in a statement last
week that it is “a priority for this year.”  There’s no consensus on deposit-rate reform, Song Guoqing,
an academic adviser to the central bank, said at a conference in
Beijing on July 20. “Had there been a unified view, it would
have been announced” on July 19, he said.  Patience Needed  “A truly meaningful interest-rate liberalization” must
involve lifting controls on bank deposit rates, said Lu Ting,
chief China economist at Bank of America Corp. in  Hong Kong .
“The PBOC will likely make some progress in this regard in
coming years but markets will have to be patient.”  Elsewhere in  Asia , Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
winning the first bicameral majority for the ruling coalition in
six years may help him to roll out the business deregulation
intended to sustain long-term growth after the initial jolts of
fiscal and monetary stimulus.  In the U.S., data due today may show sales of previously
owned homes rose to a 5.25 million annualized pace in June from
5.18 million the prior month, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed before the National Association of
Realtors’ report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  