-- China Resources Takeover Vote Clouded by Coal Allegations
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-07-22T03:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/china-resources-takeover-vote-overshadowed-by-coal-allegations.html
State-run  China Resources (836)  Holdings
Co.’s plan to combine two units is unlikely to survive a
shareholder vote today, after the value of the $7.1 billion
offer plunged following an accusation that the parent’s chairman
deliberately overpaid for coal mines in 2010.  The target,  China Resources Gas Group Ltd. (1193) , closed trading
Friday in Hong Kong about 17 percent higher than the value of
the offer from  China  Resources Power Holdings Co., indicating
investors consider the bid too low. China Resources Power
offered 97 of its shares for every 100 shares in the gas unit.  The shareholder vote in Hong Kong follows a controversy
last week over the 2010 purchase of three coal mines in Shanxi
province. All five of the parent company’s units traded in Hong
Kong sank after allegations against it and Song Lin, the
parent’s chairman, were posted by the official Xinhua News
Agency to its website on July 17. The parent is now being
audited by the government, Xinhua reported July 19. Xi Jinping,
who became China’s president in March, has pledged to
investigate and eliminate corruption at the highest levels.  The offer “has little chance of receiving a nod from
independent shareholders from both the buyer and the target,”
said Shi Yan, an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in  Shanghai .
“Other than price, investors need to know why this merger makes
sense, a question both companies’ common parent has failed to
effectively address.”  Under Audit  China Resources Holdings is being audited by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, which
has started reviewing company accounts, Xinhua reported, citing
an unidentified official at the agency. SASAC will severely
punish any misconduct, according to the report.  Two calls to the company’s general office went unanswered.
Two calls to the SASAC spokesman’s office went unanswered.  China Resources Power  said  July 18 it paid a fair price for
the assets after getting two independent assessments. It hadn’t
made the deal public because the company said its equity
interest in the projects was below the disclosure threshold.  The plan to integrate the power and gas units comes amid
pressure in China for power generators to reduce pollution by
shifting to cleaner fuels, such as natural gas.  The deal valued China Resources Gas at HK$24.64 a share, or
HK$54.8 billion ($7.1 billion), including debt, a 13 percent
premium to its closing price of HK$21.85 on May 9. China
Resources Power shares have since  tumbled  from HK$25.40 on May 9
to HK$16.86 on July 19, valuing the gas unit at HK$38.56
billion.  Offer Price  The gas unit hasn’t traded below the offer price since May
27 and the gap has widened sharply after the overpayment
accusation, with the power unit’s shares falling 16 percent in
three days. China Resources Gas was trading just 6 percent above
the value of the bid on July 16, the day before Xinhua first
posted the allegations.  China Resources Power rose 4.9 percent to HK$17.68 a share
at 11:03 a.m. in Hong Kong, while China Resources Gas was up 1.9
percent at HK$19.54, leaving the gas unit about 14 percent above
the value of the offer.  “The company has not changed the offer,” a China
Resources Power media official said July 19, declining to give
her name, citing company policies. “The company will keep
investors posted if anything happens.”  Senior management at China Resources Gas have said
privately that they don’t expect the bid to be raised, a person
with knowledge of the matter said. The person asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  Xinhua Letter  China Resources Power shareholders will  vote  on the deal
today. It needs approval by half of the company’s minority
shareholders, who represent 36 percent of the company’s equity.
It will later be presented to minority shareholders in the gas
unit, who also account for 36 percent of the company. The deal
requires more than 75 percent of their approvals, with no more
than 10 percent of minority shareholders casting a veto.  “As the deal’s popularity was already questionable before
the current allegations, it looks very unlikely at this point
that the deal can get approvals from minority shareholders of
both companies,” Wu Fei, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Bocom
International, said July 19. “I don’t see any reason why China
Resources Gas shareholders would want to associate with China
Resources Power, especially amid all the uncertainties created
by the scandal.”  China Resources Holdings employs more than 400,000 people
and controls businesses spanning power generation, cement
production, real estate and finance. Unit China Resources
Enterprise produces the country’s best-selling brand of beer
with  SABMiller Plc. (SAB)  In 2012, China Resources Holdings had
HK$41.2 billion of profit on HK$404.6 billion of sales,
according to its website.  Minority Investors  In his letter, Xinhua’s Wang alleged that Song and other
executives deliberately overpaid for the mine assets. China
Resources Power bought an 80 percent stake in the mines for 7.9
billion yuan, while another company had offered to pay 5.2
billion yuan for the entire asset a few months earlier,
according to the letter, which was addressed to the Communist
Party’s Central Commission for Discipline Inspection.  A group of minority investors said July 18 they had filed a
lawsuit in Hong Kong making similar allegations and demanding
the company forfeit the purchase. They have no connection with
Xinhua’s Wang, Li Su, founder of Hejun Vanguard Group, which is
representing the investors, said at a briefing.  Datong Coal Mine Group is the company that planned to buy
the same assets for 5.2 billion  yuan  in 2010 before walking away
from the deal, according to the letter posted by Wang  Datong Coal has no connection with China Resources Power’s
2010 purchase and won’t comment on anything concerning the deal,
a media official who only gave his surname as Liu, said by phone
on July 19 from the company’s headquarter in Datong, Shanxi.  Three calls to Shanxi Jinye Coal Coking Group Co., the
seller of the assets, went unanswered on July 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  