-- China Shipyards Hurt by Low Down Payments Amid Credit Crunch
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-07-22T11:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/china-shipyards-squeezed-by-low-down-payments-amid-credit-crunch.html
During the 2007 shipping boom,
 China ’s shipyards charged down payments of as much as 60 percent
of a vessel’s value. Now, shipbuilders are cutting those
payments to as little as 2 percent, giving an advantage to
state-owned companies that can tap the government’s cash.  With flagging demand pushing shipyards to compete by
cutting down payments and China taking measures to rein in
lending, the nation’s privately owned yards are getting squeezed
by state-owned rivals that enjoy greater access to financing.
 China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the
largest shipbuilder outside state control by order book, said
this month it’s seeking government support after failing to win
any new vessel orders this year.  “The payment terms mean shipyards have to burn their own
money to build ships, which brings them extraordinary cash-flow
pressure,” said Lawrence Li, a Shanghai-based analyst at  UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. (UOBK)  “Only state-owned yards that are able to
secure funding can offer such aggressive down-payment terms.”  State-backed companies grabbed 74 percent of new vessel
orders in China, the world’s biggest shipbuilding nation, in the
first half of this year, according to data compiled by UOB-Kay
Hian. That compares with 52 percent in all of 2012.  Dalian Shipbuilding Industry Co., a unit of state-owned
China Shipbuilding Industry Corp., won an order this month to
build seven ships that can carry 8,800 containers each. The
buyer, a unit of state-run China International Marine Containers
(Group) Co., agreed to pay 2 percent of the total amount of $595
million as a first installment and the rest upon delivery.  Fivefold Surge  New orders for commercial vessels at Dalian’s parent, which
also built the nation’s first aircraft carrier, surged more than
fivefold in the first half in terms of contract value, the
company said in a statement posted last week on the website of
 China Association of the National Shipbuilding Industry .  China Shipbuilding Industry and  China State Shipbuilding
Corp. , the two biggest yards owned by the government, didn’t
reply to e-mailed and faxed questions from Bloomberg News.  The ability to get financing has become one of the most
critical issues for yards to win orders, said Bao Zhangjing,
deputy director of the China Shipbuilding Industry Economy
Research Center.  “The market is going to be more dominated by fewer players
given the current situation,” Bao said. “Those with
competitiveness will have opportunities. State-owned companies
and some local firms are doing relatively better.”  Of about 1,591 shipyards in China in 2011, 70 were state-owned, according to the latest available data from the
shipbuilders group.  Vessel Glut  Rongsheng and other shipmakers are struggling as a global
vessel glut makes orders more difficult to win and pushes down
prices. A third of the shipyards in China, the world’s biggest
shipbuilding nation, may be shut in about five years as they
failed to win orders “for a very long period of time,” the
shipbuilders group said July 4.  A clampdown on excessive short-term borrowing sent China’s
overnight repurchase rate to a record 13.91 percent last month,
forcing at least 22 companies including China Development Bank
Corp., a backer of the shipping industry, to cancel or delay
bond sales. Premier Li Keqiang said this month that China will
seek to keep economic growth above an unspecified lower limit
without indicating any immediate plans to boost credit even as
the pace of expansion slows, while the State Council pledged to
maintain its “prudent” monetary-policy stance.  Tight Liquidity  Shipyards generally have tight liquidity, and low down
payments have worsened the situation, said Wang Jinlian,
secretary general of the shipbuilding group. Yards received down
payments averaging 40 percent in 2007, with 60 percent being the
high mark, Wang said.  Buyers now pay about 5 percent to 10 percent on average, he
said, characterizing 2 percent as “abnormally” low.  “We urge financial institutions to help key enterprises
like Rongsheng,” Wang said.  Rongsheng has  plunged  28 percent in Hong Kong trading since
saying it was seeking government support on July 5. Trading of
the shares was suspended July 4 after the Wall Street Journal
said the company recently eliminated about 8,000 jobs. The
shipyard, which has forecast a  loss  in the first half, said it’s
restructuring its workforce and is in talks with financial
institutions about renewing credit facilities.  Rongsheng’s down-payment requirements are “competitive”
in the market, the company said in an e-mailed statement to
Bloomberg News, declining to disclose the terms. While it hasn’t
landed any new ship orders this year, it secured contracts to
build offshore equipment, the company said.  Rongsheng shares rose 1.3 percent to 76 Hong Kong cents at
close of trading. The city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index gained
0.3 percent.  Yangzijiang, Hyundai Heavy  Some private shipyards in China continue to win contracts.
 Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd. (YZJ) , the nation’s second-biggest private yard, said in a July 4 statement it has won
$1.01 billion of shipbuilding orders in the first half.  Demand is picking up for South Korean yards as well, said
Park Moo Hyun, an analyst at E*Trade Securities Korea in  Seoul .
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world’s biggest shipbuilder,
said this month it plans to raise prices in the second half.  “The big Korean shipyards have already achieved more than
60 percent of their order targets for this year,” Park said.
“This is enabling them to get better payment terms.”  Global ship orders surged from about 2007 because of
speculation fueled by China’s demand for raw materials. The
government also provided low-cost financing for new vessels to
help support shipyards, leading to a global increase in orders.  ‘Sake of Workers’  Chinese yards had an order book of 218 million deadweight
tons in 2008, overtaking South Korea as the world’s largest
shipbuilding nation, according to  Clarkson Plc , the world’s
biggest shipbroker. China held an order book of 109 million
deadweight tons at the end of June, 13.4 percent lower than a
year earlier, according to the Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology.  Lianyungang Wuzhou Shipbuilding Heavy Industry Co., based
in eastern China’s Jiangsu province, has reduced the number of
workers by half from last year to about 1,000, Chairman Ye
Yunzhu said. The privately held yard is maintaining production
by accepting orders to build vessels with a price tag of about
10 million  yuan  ($1.6 million), he said in a phone interview. It
used to build vessels priced at more than 100 million yuan.  “We are only maintaining basic production for the sake of
workers,” Ye said. “We can’t make money at the moment,
therefore our focus is to avoid losing money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  