-- Dell, Silver Lake Said to Disagree on Fee if LBO Fails
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-07-22T20:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/dell-silver-lake-said-to-disagree-on-breakup-fee-if-lbo-fails.html
As  Dell Inc. (DELL)  shareholders brace to
vote this week on a $24.4 billion sale to Michael Dell and
 Silver Lake  Management LLC, the founder and his financial backer
are said to disagree about the payout of breakup fees should the
buyout fail.  Silver Lake considers itself entitled to a $450 million fee
if an alternative proposal from billionaire  Carl Icahn  succeeds
within a year, said a person familiar with the situation. Dell
and his board hold that Silver Lake would only get reimbursed
expenses, said two other people who also asked not to be
identified because the matter is private.  The computer maker last week postponed the vote to July 24,
prolonging months of jousting between the group led by Dell, who
is also chief executive officer, and investors such as Icahn who
want a higher price. Icahn proposes a $14 a share buyback for
about 1.1 billion Dell shares, plus a warrant that could be
exchanged for additional stock should Dell climb higher than
$20. The company would remain public under Icahn’s plan.  Michael Dell and the board contend Silver Lake would get
the $450 million only if the company is sold to a higher bidder
and Icahn’s proposal doesn’t represent a superior takeover bid,
according to the two people familiar with the company’s
position. Silver Lake would also be entitled to the fee if the
board changed its recommendation, according to the March 29
merger proxy filing.  Different Stance  The board’s position on the payment contradicts a committee
presentation from June, which indicated that a $450 million
termination fee would be incurred if Icahn’s proposal went
forward.  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment.
A representative for Silver Lake didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment.  The shares of  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell fell less than 1
percent to $13.02 at the close in New York, leaving them up 28
percent so far this year.  The disagreement may reflect increased distance between
Dell and Egon Durban, the Silver Lake managing partner leading
the deal for the private-equity fund. The two men, now neighbors
in  Hawaii , have known each other since their teenage years in
Houston and Dell became an early investor in Silver Lake, which
was founded in 1999.  One of the people said that when press reports were
circulating this month that the Institutional Shareholders
Investors advisory group might oppose the deal, Dell was unable
to easily reach Durban to discuss whether they should sweeten
their offer, as requested by a special committee of the board.  Durban Cancels  Dell and Durban later talked and ruled out increasing their
bid, which they deem fair, according to people familiar to the
situation, and ISS eventually supported the deal.  Durban canceled an appearance at Fortune’s Brainstorm Tech
conference today after deciding that it wasn’t appropriate to
make a public appearance so close to the July 24 shareholder
vote on the buyout, said a person familiar with the matter.  If their effort succeeds, the men will have to embark on
the challenging transformation of the 29-year-old PC company
into a provider of software-based enterprise services.  The leveraged buyout requires the vote of the majority of
 shareholders , excluding  Michael Dell , who owns a 15.6 percent
stake. Absentees count as no vote. As of July 18, when the board
adjourned the  shareholders’ meeting , Dell hadn’t lined up all of
the 42 percent, or about 740 million shares, needed to prevail.  To implement Icahn’s plan, shareholders have first to vote
against the LBO and then have to give the activist investor
control of the board in a proxy fight, for which Michael Dell’s
vote count.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Vanguard Group Inc., and  State Street
Corp. (STT) , three of Dell’s largest shareholders, indicated late this
week that they’re voting in favor of the Silver Lake-led deal,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter. BlackRock
had previously voted against the buyout, another person said.
Those funds, like any Dell shareholder, can still change their
votes before the final tally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  