-- Detroit’s Mayor Bing Says He Hasn’t Asked for Federal Bailout
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A n n   H u g h e y
-- 2013-07-21T15:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/detroit-s-mayor-bing-says-he-hasn-t-asked-for-federal-bailout.html
Detroit  Mayor Dave Bing said he
isn’t asking for a federal bailout to help pay down the city’s
$18 billion debt that forced the one time industrial giant into
bankruptcy last week.  “I think it’s very difficult right now to ask directly for
support,” Bing said on ABC’s “This Week.” Asked if the city
would get a federal bailout, Bing said, “Not yet.”  “We’re not the only city that’s going to struggle through
what we’re going through,” Bing said. “We may be one of the
first. We are the largest, but we absolutely will not be the
last. And so we have got to set a bench mark in terms of how to
fix our cities and come back from this tragedy.”  Detroit filed for bankruptcy July 18 after decades of
decline left it too poor to pay billions of dollars owed to
bondholders, retired police officers and current city workers.  The city faces about $18 billion of debt it must now
restructure. The bankruptcy, the largest municipal collapse in
U.S. history, came after too few creditors would accept a plan
offered by Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr to pay off $11.5 billion
in unsecured debt with $2 billion in borrowed money -- an offer
that would have provided as little as 10 cents on the dollar
owed. It also would have cost pensioners some benefits.  “This is a very tough decision, but it’s the right
decision,”  Michigan  Governor Rick Snyder, a Republican, said on
NBC’s “Meet the Press” today. “The citizens of Detroit
deserve better than they’re getting today. There were no other
viable options.”  ‘Further Downhill’  Snyder said on NBC Detroit would have continued to have
“gone further downhill” if the city hadn’t filed for
bankruptcy. On CBS’s “Face the Nation,” Snyder said he doesn’t
expect a federal bailout.  Emergency Manager Orr said on “Fox News Sunday” that the
city wasn’t expecting help from the federal government, though
it would welcome some assistance.  “We’ve operated on the assumption that we have to solve
this problem on our own,” Orr said. “We are not waiting for
the calvary to rescue us.”  Michigan’s largest city joins Jefferson County,  Alabama ,
and San Bernardino and Stockton in  California , in bankruptcy.  A state court judge ordered Snyder to withdraw the
bankruptcy petition on July 19, claiming the case violates
Michigan’s constitution. The state is seeking to appeal the
order.  Kenneth Klee, a lawyer who is leading the bankruptcy
restructuring of Jefferson County, said a state judge can’t
force Detroit out of federal bankruptcy, even if Snyder agrees
to try to withdraw.  A federal judge would have to agree to dismiss the case,
said Klee, of Klee Tuchin Bogdanoff & Stern LLP in  Los Angeles .  Lawsuits Barred  Under the protection of Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy
Code , most lawsuits against a city are temporarily barred so the
municipality can reorganize its operations and debt without
distraction.  Orr and Snyder last week said Detroit’s crisis -- 60 years
in the making -- would take time to resolve. Orr said the
decision to enter bankruptcy came after a long build-up of
resistance to his plans and what he called an olive-branch
approach to creditors.  “What did we get for that?” Orr asked. “We’re getting
sued, consistently.”  Detroit residents should see improvements in services
within 60 days as he shores up funding, Orr said. He said he has
no plans to sell assets such as the city-owned collection at the
Detroit Institute of Arts. 