-- Deutsche Banker Collard Aims for War Novel Bestseller
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-07-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/deutsche-banker-collard-aims-for-war-novel-bestseller.html
If you find yourself sitting across
from Paul Fraser Collard on the 6:20 a.m. to London Stratford,
you’ll notice his suit and urgent typing and assume he’s
catching up on emails, perhaps putting the finishing touches to
a report.  You’d be wrong.  The 39-year-old banker has been using his daily commute
from Kent to write a series of historical adventure novels with
a plucky impostor for a hero. The first installment, published
as “ The Scarlet Thief ,” is set during the Crimean War.  I meet Collard at Deutsche Bank, where he’s director of the
agency securities lending desk. In an empty conference room, we
talk Victorian  identity theft , natty uniforms and what it means
to “pass a queer screen.”  Anderson: Had you always wanted to write?  Collard: No, not at all. I wasn’t actually very good at
English and have no college degree. I’ve always had this long
commute that I’d used for reading. When I turned 30 I just
thought “I’ll see if I can write.”  So I bashed a book out in a year. The first of my midlife
crisis! It died a death. Later I tried again but this time I
planned it properly. It took a lot longer -- about two years.  Anderson: What was it like to get an agent and then a
publisher?  Agent Rescue  Collard: It was brilliant to get representation. I never
thought that would happen. I was on holiday in  Boston  with my
family when my agent called and rescued me from shopping in
Abercrombie & Fitch. He said: “You’re done, you’re signed,
we’ve got a publishing contract.” That was phenomenal.  Anderson: The hero of the series is Jack Lark, an ambitious
army orderly who steals his master’s rank. How did he come to
you?  Collard: When I was a kid in the mid-1980s, there was a TV
series called “The Monocled Mutineer” about a young WWI
soldier from a mining town who went around impersonating posh
officers. If you had some papers, some money and the right
uniform and attitude, identity theft was very easy -- even more
so in the 1850s.  Anderson: Is there anything of you in Jack?  Collard: He’s nothing like me. I’m as boring and staid as
they come.  Anderson: How did you get into banking?  City Career  Collard: I’d very much set out to join the army. I was well
on the way but at 18, I just thought it wasn’t for me. I was
burning with ambition. Both my brothers worked in the City and
in the early 1990s it was a quick-paced career. I became a
vocational trainee at  Deutsche Bank. (DBK)   Anderson: Have any aspects of your working life found their
way into your fiction?  Collard: The main thing is the camaraderie, the way teams
work together. I’ve been in the same team since 1996 -- you feel
bonds to people.  Anderson: Do you think of it as the day job now?  Collard: No. It’s still the big job that pays all the bills
and looks after the children. Writing is a hobby, it’s just a
more serious hobby now.  Anderson: What’s your favorite part?  Collard: You make stuff up. Working in banks is great but
it’s hard, fast facts. You can’t make up data.  Counterfeit Notes  Anderson: I enjoyed some of the details that weren’t made
up, like the slang -- “rhino” for cash, “passing queer
screens” for using counterfeit notes.  Collard: That’s the “flash” language of the Victorian
period. There’s a great website called the  Victorian Wars Forum .
It’s got these experts and you can ask them anything.  Anderson: The Flashman and Sharpe series are also set then.
What makes the era’s military campaigns so appealing?  Collard: They have this glorious nature. They were very
staged battles with music and troops marching in line and
fabulous uniforms -- a real spectacle. For me, brought up with
toy soldiers in red coats and films like “Zulu” and
“Waterloo,” it’s deeply ingrained in the psyche.  Anderson: Sharpe’s creator,  Bernard Cornwell , has blurbed
book one. How did that feel?  Past Pinnacle  Collard: He’s the guy I’ve read since I was 10. I’ve read
every single book he’s ever written and to even think he knows
my character exists is enough. I’ve hit way past the pinnacle I
thought I’d get to.  Anyone who wants to write has to read and read and read. Of
course, you stop enjoying books and start analyzing, which
spoils it a little bit. I can’t bear to read redcoat fiction any
more -- I worry I’ll read it competitively. I like to escape so
I read John Grisham now.  Anderson: Still writing on the train?  Collard: That’s still my best time for writing - banging it
out, headphones on, two hours a day. You don’t have to sit on
your commute being miserable and moaning about delays. Use the
time properly.  “The Scarlet Thief” is published by Headline ($30.50,
19.99 pounds, 304 pages). To buy the book in  North America ,
click  here . Book two of the series will be released in November.  (Hephzibah Anderson writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are her own. This
interview is adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on U.K. theater,
 John Mariani  on wine,  Greg Evans  on television and  Amanda
Gordon ’s Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 