-- Dollar Drops Amid Speculation Fed Tapering on Hold; Real Rallies
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-07-22T21:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/dollar-holds-decline-on-fed-outlook-yen-gains-after-abe-victory.html
The dollar weakened against all of
its 16 most-traded counterparts as demand for higher-yielding
assets rose amid speculation a reduction of monetary stimulus by
the  Federal Reserve  is on hold.  The yen rose for the first time in four days against the
dollar amid bets further policy measures may be needed to weaken
the currency after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s coalition
cemented control of parliament.  Brazil ’s real climbed, and
 Australia ’s dollar rallied. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
Congress last week it was “too early” to decide to begin
tapering the central bank’s bond purchases in September.  “Markets have settled down with the realization that Fed
policy will remain very accommodative for a long period of
time,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“ Emerging markets  have seen some stabilization in sentiment.
Emerging-market currencies, commodities are benefiting from more
positive risk sentiment.”  The dollar dropped 1 percent to 99.67 yen at 5 p.m. New
York time and lost as much as 1.4 percent, the biggest intraday
decline since July 11. The yen rose 0.6 percent to 131.42 per
euro. The euro appreciated 0.3 percent to $1.3186 and touched
$1.3218, the strongest since June 21.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index, a
measure of currency fluctuations, slid to 9.21 percent, the
least on closing basis since May 14. It touched a one-year high
of 11.96 percent June 24, and has averaged 9.33 percent in 2013.  Emerging Markets  An equally weighted basket of so-called BRICS emerging-market currencies rallied a second day. BRICS refers to Brazil,
 Russia ,  India ,  China  and  South Africa .  Copper for September delivery rose to settle at $3.185 a
pound after reaching $3.215 earlier, the highest level in almost
six weeks. Gold advanced 3.1 percent to $1,335.82 an ounce.  Brazil’s real climbed for the first time in three days as
comments by central-bank President Alexandre Tombini fueled
speculation policy makers may step up the pace of borrowing-cost
increases. The currency strengthened 0.6 percent to 2.2331 to
the greenback.  Australia’s dollar strengthened after the People’s Bank of
China said July 19 it was ending a floor on borrowing costs
previously set at 30 percent below the benchmark rate. China is
Australia’s biggest trading partner. The Aussie gained 0.8
percent to 92.49 U.S. cents.  Bernanke Comments  Bernanke said last week in two days of congressional
testimony that the Fed’s bond purchases “are by no means on a
preset course” and may be reduced more quickly or expanded as
economic conditions warrant.  The dollar climbed last month after the Fed chief said the
purchases may slow this year and stop in mid-2014 if economic
growth meets policy makers’ projections.  The Fed buys $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage debt
each month as part of its quantitative-easing stimulus to cap
borrowing costs, a program that tends to debase the dollar.  The yen’s strength gives scope to sell the currency because
reforms will ultimately put it under pressure, Morgan Stanley
strategists including  Hans Redeker  wrote in client note.  Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  and its New Komeito ally now
have 135 of the 242 seats in the upper house. The LDP has
controlled the lower house since elections in December.  Deflation Focus  The prime minister said today he’ll focus on stemming
deflation. Decisions loom on issues including whether to cut
corporate taxes, reduce labor regulations, make it easier to
consolidate agricultural land and allow greater access to
overseas goods and services.  “It boils down to your faith in Abenomics and whether or
not you think he’s going to be able to push his agenda further,
and more importantly whether that’s really good for the yen,”
Gerry Celaya, a senior currency strategist at Aberdeen,
Scotland-based Redtower Asset Management, said in a phone
interview. “We’ve priced in a lot, and we need something to
deliver here. In our view, it’s going to have to come from the
 Bank of Japan .”  BOJ policy makers at a meeting July 10 stuck with a pledge
to expand the monetary base by 60 trillion yen ($605 billion) to
70 trillion yen per year in their plan to end deflation.  The yen has weakened 10 percent this year, the biggest
decline among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar appreciated
4.7 percent and the euro advanced 4.6 percent.  Euro Advances  The euro rose versus rose versus the dollar amid optimism
 Portugal ’s government will stay in office until 2015, giving the
nation time to complete its European-Union-led aid deal.
President Anibal Cavaco Silva said the current government will
stay in office and he doesn’t want to call early elections.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $23 billion, compared with $29 billion on July 19,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $7.2 billion, the
largest share of trades at 31 percent. Aussie-dollar options
totaled $3.4 billion, or 15 percent, the second-largest share.  Dollar-yen options trading was 4 percent less than the
average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Aussie-dollar options trading
was 45 percent more than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  