-- Egypt Upheaval Rewards Builders as Buyers Shelter Savings
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-07-22T14:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/egypt-upheaval-rewards-builders-as-buyers-shelter-savings.html
In  Egypt , where more than two years
of political and economic turmoil culminated in the ouster of
President Mohamed Mursi almost three weeks ago, more people are
deciding it’s a good time to buy a home.  House prices and sales are surging amid the street battles
and demonstrations as Egyptians with cash seek to shelter it
from high inflation and a plummeting currency. The value of mid-priced and luxury homes has risen by as much as 15 percent this
year, according to Ankur Khetawat, an analyst at Cairo-based CI
Capital Holdings. Construction companies from Talaat Moustafa
Group to Medinet Nasr Housing are reporting increasing revenue.  “The  currency devaluation  has been a blessing in disguise
for the  property market ,” Khetawat said by phone. “It’s the
best hedge for currency devaluation, especially with the
scarcity of other investment avenues.”  Developers are seeing rising demand after the political
discord and worsening economic outlook that marred Mursi’s year
in office prompted Egyptians to protect their savings. The
currency has fallen 11.6 percent since the central bank started
easing its support in December, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, and inflation  accelerated  to 9.8 percent in June from
8.2 percent in May.  Economic Reforms  The revolution that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  in
February 2011 was a blow to developers building on more than 100
million square meters (1.1 billion square feet) of land in and
around Cairo as well as foreign companies that entered the
market after economic reforms made in 2003 propelled more of the
country’s 85 million people into the middle class. The conflict
and uncertainty that followed starved the builders of buyers
while the companies battled lawsuits over cheap land bought
under the former regime.  The bank’s reduction of currency support coincided with the
recent surge in home prices, Khetawat said. Talaat Moustafa,
Egypt’s largest developer by market value, said in May that
first-quarter revenue jumped 17 percent to 1.52 billion pounds
($217 million). Annual net income is  set  to climb for the  first
time  in five years, according to the average of eight estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Six of October Development & Investment Co. reported sales
of 1.6 billion pounds in the first half, equal to the total for
all of 2012 and close to its full-year target of 1.8 billion
pounds, managing director Ahmed Badrawi said in an interview.  Eastown Project  The homebuilder, known as Sodic, sold more than 600 homes
in the first phase of its Eastown project in the New Cairo
suburb, compared with an initial target of 350, he said. The
initial price of 5,800 pounds a square meter has increased by 15
percent, he said.  “What people are fearing in Egypt is runaway inflation,
devaluation of the currency and currency controls,” said Loic Pelichet, an analyst at NBK Capital. “So how do you fight that?
You buy a flat, the only thing that doesn’t depreciate.”  Nearby  Syria , mired in civil war, is seeing a similar rise
in  home prices  as the currency plummets. Values in parts of
Damascus that have seen little violence have risen by 20 percent
to 40 percent since the conflict began in March 2011. The Syrian
pound plunged from a prewar 47 to the dollar to a black market
rate of more than 200 pounds last month.  The rebound is leaving out poorer Egyptians as developers
focus on higher-margin homes for wealthy and middle-income
buyers. A plan by the interim government that preceded Mursi to
build 1 million low-cost homes in five years never materialized,
according to Nermeen Abdel Gawad, an analyst at HC Securities.  Expensive Mortgages  Mortgage interest rates of as much as 17 percent are
keeping many would-be buyers out of the market and 90 percent of
all transactions are financed by cash or through payment plans
extended by developers, Abdel Gawad said.  Homebuilders can generate profit margins of around 30
percent for properties costing from 600,000 pounds to 1.5
million pounds, she said. That compares with 7 percent to 12
percent for homes valued at less than 250,000 pounds. Mid-level
homes range from 250,000 to 600,000 pounds.  Dubai’s  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  and Majid Al Futtaim Holding
LLC as well as Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. and Barwa
Real Estate of Qatar are among the foreign developers building
homes and commercial properties in Egypt. None have announced
changes to their plans since the military removed Mursi from
power on July 3, a move that led to clashes that have left at
least 61 people dead and hundreds wounded.  Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC, a Dubai-based owner and
operator of malls, is proceeding with the construction of a $600
million Mall of Egypt after getting approval during Mursi’s time
in office, Chief Executive Officer Iyad Malas said by phone.  Mursi Praise  “Our experience was good,” he said. “We got any
approvals we asked for because they had an interest in bringing
foreign investors, like every government should.”  The company has tightened security at its shopping centers
since Mursi was ousted to avoid a repeat of 2011, when its Maadi
City Centre mall in Cairo was forced to close for two months
after being looted and partially burned in the aftermath of
Mubarak’s overthrow. Malas said if the situation gets
drastically worse, the company may slow down construction on the
mall and put new investments on hold, though a complete exit
from the country is unlikely.  Egypt is a “core market” for Emaar, Dubai’s biggest
developer said in an e-mailed response to questions on July 14.
The company has  invested  more than 5 billion Egyptian pounds in
the country and plans to spend more on developments including
the commercial and residential Cairo Gate project in a joint
venture with Al Futtaim Group.  Stocks Gain  Egypt’s biggest publicly held developers rose in Cairo
trading today, led by Sodic with a gain of 1.6 percent. The
companies have outperformed the benchmark EGX 30 index since
April 1 with  Talaat Moustafa  leading the way with a 33 percent
advance. Luxury-home builder Palm Hills Developments SAE
advanced 29 percent, Medinet Nasr added 7.6 percent and Sodic
rose 6 percent in the period. The  index  increased about 7.8
percent during that time.  Though sales are rising, developers aren’t immune to the
political and economic shocks in the country and any plans would
depend on how far the situation deteriorates over the coming
months and years.  Egypt’s net international reserves are more than 50 percent
below their December 2010 levels. Talks on Egypt’s bid for a
$4.8 billion International Monetary Fund loan are on hold, the
Middle East  News Agency  reported, citing designated planning
minister Ashraf el-Arabi. Egypt’s economy may grow 2 percent
this year, the slowest pace since 1992, according to the IMF.  Political Process  A 10-person committee charged with amending Egypt’s
constitution met for the first time yesterday. The meeting
started a process meant to culminate in parliamentary and
presidential polls.  The overthrow of two governments since 2011 and the process
of forming a new administration will probably delay approvals of
development land distribution and political instability may
affect the supply of building materials, slowing construction of
new homes even as demand rises.  While property sales have been recovering, they are far
below the peak levels in 2007 and 2008, Khetawat said. Legal
disputes over land purchased by developers during Mubarak’s
regime continue to hang over the companies.  Next Regime  “The future of the market will hinge on how the new regime
deals with issues such as the allocation of land and the
disputes with developers,” Khetawat said. “Egypt needs a clear
legal framework that provides checks and balances on the process
of land distribution if it is to attract new developers and
foreign investors.”  Madinaty , Talaat Moustafa’s largest project with 33 million
square meters of land, is the subject of a case set to be heard
on Sept. 24. As much as 45 percent of the undeveloped portion of
the land, bought in 2005, may be revalued, Chief Financial
Officer Jihad Sawaftah said in January.  Damac Properties Co., a Dubai-based private developer, has
largely withdrawn from Egypt after it settled a dispute with the
government in May. The company agreed to give up 30 million
square meters of land on the Red Sea coast that it bought for $1
a square meter in 2006. The accord with Egypt’s government also
gave the state full ownership of Damac’s Hyde Park development
and the company agreed to pay 145 million pounds.  Damac’s retail and office project Park Avenue is still
being built and many of the units are being handed over to
buyers, the company said on July 14 statement.  Developers are trying to hedge for risks resulting from the
worsening security situation. Companies are trying to stock up
on construction materials and are factoring in expected price
increases as a result of a further depreciation of the currency,
NBK’s Pelichet said. Projects could be delayed by disruptions to
construction work and the supply of imported materials, he said.  “It’s not physically possible to hedge 100 percent now and
if inflation accelerates more than developers had anticipated or
if the currency depreciates 20 percent to 30 percent, it could
be really risky for them,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  