-- Egypt’s Constitutional Panel Meets Amid Sinai Violence
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-07-22T07:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/egypt-s-interim-cabinet-convenes-for-first-time-amid-unrest.html
Egypt ’s constitutional amendment
panel met for the first time to initiate a process leading to
fresh elections, as supporters and opponents of ousted President
Mohamed Mursi engaged in street fighting for a third week.  The 10-member committee of legal experts has given
political parties and other groups a week to present proposals,
the state-run Middle East News Agency said yesterday. The panel
has 30 days to present the amendments to a second committee made
up of 50 public figures before a referendum on the charter,
followed by parliamentary and presidential elections. The
benchmark  EGX 30 stock index  gained 1.4 percent, the most since
July 9.  The fractious transition follows the July 3 removal of
Mursi by the military. At least 70 people were injured in
clashes last night between supporters of the Islamist leader and
his opponents in the coastal city of Suez, police said.  The military and police are also struggling to end militant
attacks in Sinai, which have intensified since Mursi’s removal.
Clashes in Sinai killed three soldiers, two policemen and one
civilian, the state-run  news agency  reported, while a further
five policemen and one civilian were wounded in an attack on a
central security camp in Rafah in north Sinai today.  “There is no way the transition phase is going to be
smooth,” said Ziad Akl, senior analyst at Al Ahram Center for
Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo. “It’s very possible
that it will be extended, and could be sort of prolonged, until
a deal is reached with the Muslim Brotherhood.”  Road Map  The Brotherhood, which fielded Mursi for elections last
year, has refused to recognize the transitional authorities,
vowing instead to press on with protests until the Islamist
politician is released from military custody and reinstated.  Mursi pushed a constitution through a referendum last year,
ignoring opponents who said the document favors Islamists and
infringes on basic rights. Under the road map announced by
interim President Adly Mansour, elections will be called after a
new charter is approved.  Underscoring the political polarization in the country, the
April 6 movement, one of the groups that campaigned for Mursi’s
ouster, said it will propose a “ban on religious parties,”
according to an e-mailed statement. The clause was included in a
charter passed under  Hosni Mubarak , who persecuted Islamists
during his three-decade rule that was ended by the 2011
uprising.  Public Consultation  Tamarod, the movement that helped mobilize the street
protests that called for Mursi’s removal, has started to collect
suggestions from Egyptians on the document, said Islam Hammam, a
member of its central committee.  “There’s no way the Muslim Brotherhood are not going to be
part of Egypt’s political scene,” Akl said. “What they are
doing now by the daily protests is trying to apply political
pressure to enhance their position in negotiations.”  The army cordoned off the road leading to the headquarters
of the defense ministry in Cairo to prevent a march by Muslim
Brotherhood women from reaching the site, Mena reported
yesterday. The demonstration was to protest at the killing of
three pro-Mursi women in the Nile Delta city of Mansoura on July
19.  The interim cabinet, convening for the first time
yesterday, endorsed efforts by security services to restore
order, according to an e-mailed statement.  ‘Social Justice’  Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawi and his ministers also said
that it will prioritize policies that protects the poor, without
providing details.  “The stress on social justice was expected,” said Mohamed Abu Basha, a Cairo-based economist at investment bank EFG-Hermes. “It was a weakness of the previous government, which
didn’t have specific policies to address it. However, today’s
statement isn’t enough to give an indication of what policies
this government will take.”  El Beblawi inherits record unemployment and a  budget
deficit  that may widen to 12 percent of economic output this
year, according to the estimates of 11 analysts on Bloomberg.
Economic growth may slow to 2 percent, near its worst pace in
two decades, while  inflation , at 9.8 percent in June, is the
highest in two years.  The central bank has received a $2 billion interest-free
deposit from  Saudi Arabia , state-run Ahram Gate reported
yesterday, citing Central Bank Governor Hisham Ramez. The funds
are part of a $12 billion package pledges by the  United Arab
Emirates ,  Kuwait  as well as Saudi Arabia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  