-- Euro Gives Latvia Escape From Geography’s Bear Hug
-- B y   A i v i s   R o n i s
-- 2013-07-21T22:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/euro-gives-latvia-escape-from-geography-s-bear-hug.html
Of all the trips I took as Latvia’s
ambassador to the U.S., one of the most memorable was a drive a
decade ago across west  Texas .  While I was stopping for gas, a cowboy who overheard my
accent asked where I was from. I told him I came from a country
of 2 million people on the  Baltic Sea  in north-central  Europe .
He said, “I know where you’re from -- we liberated you after
World War II.” He was so sweet-natured that I didn’t have the
heart to tell him that, actually, our nation had involuntarily
become part of the  Soviet Union , as it was known, for nearly
half a century after the Allies defeated  Adolf Hitler .  I was used to such misperceptions; during meetings in
 Washington , I sometimes wished I had carried a map. Within 15
minutes, I had to be sure to mention that Latvia was a
democracy, or I wouldn’t get a friendly ear. Then, I’d go on to
describe our (eventually successful) efforts to join the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Union -- using our
unique geography to become a center for trade and finance, a
place where East meets West. Invariably, the response was the
same: “Oh, you’re next to  Russia  -- you must be influenced by
it.”  Those memories came back earlier this month as EU finance
ministers approved Latvia’s bid to join the  euro zone  next
January, prompting  skeptics  to ask, “Why would anybody want to
join the euro right now?” With a series of crises culminating in
the bailout of Cyprus, the euro has been described as everything
from “a troubled currency club” to “a massive failure.” Why
would Latvia want to be part of that?  A Natural Gateway  The official answer has focused on the economic benefits
the euro will bring, including more trading partners; a common
currency that makes it simpler for citizens and products to
cross borders; a reduction in transaction costs; and greater
monetary stability. These benefits are expected to boost foreign
investment while making it easier for us to export and grow.
Quick validation came from Fitch Ratings Inc., which  raised 
Latvia’s long-term credit rating immediately after the EU
decision.  But the unstated answer hearkens back to my experiences in
America: We are simply tired of being defined by the border we
share with Russia, or by our status as a so-called former Soviet
state.  Latvia had a history in Europe long before we were co-opted
by the Russian bear. We will continue to serve as a natural
gateway for business to the 350 million consumers in the
 Commonwealth of Independent States . Now our membership in the
euro area, as well as our participation in the EU and NATO and
along with our bid to join the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, will enable us to reclaim our
rightful role as a part of core Europe.  For a nation whose currency -- the lats -- is a symbol of
the  independence  we won in 1990, to trade it for euros is
understandably difficult, particularly for older Latvians with
long memories of our forced embrace of the ruble a half-century
ago. But unlike nations that perceive adoption of the euro as
forfeiting control over monetary policy -- what U.K. foreign
minister  William Hague  called being “trapped in the equivalent
of a burning building with no exits” -- Latvia has already
crossed that bridge, having pegged the lats to the euro eight
years ago.  Sentiment aside, the euro will help us to escape a shadow
that doesn’t fall over nations such as the U.K. What Western
eyes don’t see every time Russia becomes mixed up in a global
incident -- whether the tragic Boston Marathon bombing or the
flight of Edward Snowden -- is the collateral damage for nations
that used to be part of the USSR, making it harder for us to be
seen on our own terms.  Higher Standards  Take the issue of Cyprus and Latvian banks. One factor
identified in the collapse of Cypriot banks was the large amount
of questionable Russian deposits, some tied to criminal
activity. Because  Latvia ’s private banks have a higher
percentage of so-called “nonresident accounts” (three-quarters
of which originate in former Soviet states), regulators have
feared that homeless Russian cash will flee to Latvia. Moody’s
Investors Service Inc. heightened the alarm in May, when it
reported that nonresident deposits in Latvia had increased by 32
percent from 2010 to 2012.  That’s true, but they also fell by roughly 32 percent
during the global financial crisis. Once Latvia regained its
financial footing, nonresident accounts returned to their
historical average -- and keep in mind that for the last two
decades, nearly half of the deposits in Latvian banks have
originated from the former USSR. In truth, while 6.4 billion
euros left Cyprus in the first quarter of 2013, Latvia’s
nonresident deposits grew by just 400 million euros.  And here is a last reason why Latvia is eager to join the
euro zone: We understand the higher standard applied to
institutions in Russia’s orbit. That’s why our banks’ anti-money-laundering standards are among the most rigorous, praised
by everybody from the  International Monetary Fund  to the  U.S.
Treasury  to  MoneyVal , the Council of Europe’s anti-corruption
unit. We welcome the bright light shined by the euro: It
represents yet another chance to prove that Latvia, now the EU’s
fastest-growing economy, is a stable place for Western
investment, and a nation that is proud to help build Europe’s
future.  (Aivis Ronis is the former Latvian ambassador to the U.S.,
 Mexico ,  Turkey  and NATO, as well as the former Latvian foreign
minister.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Aivis Ronis at  aivisronis@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 