-- Greece Gets U.S. Encouragement as Portugal PM Hangs On
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-07-22T07:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/lew-says-u-s-recovery-inextricably-linked-to-european-economy.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
said a U.S. recovery is “inextricably linked” to Europe’s
ability to generate growth, after global finance officials urged
euro-area policy makers to ease off austerity measures.  Speaking yesterday during a visit to  Greece , where the
 European debt crisis  began in 2009, Lew cited the country’s
“tough road” of economic hardship. He arrived from Moscow,
where he was among Group of 20 finance ministers advising
Europeans to move away from its course of German-inspired
budget-cutting, which has been blamed for Greece’s record
unemployment and a sixth year of recession, and toward growth.  “Engagement with Europe remains at the top of my agenda,
because U.S. jobs and growth are inextricably linked to Europe
achieving growth and prosperity,” Lew said at the Acropolis
Museum in  Athens , according to a Treasury statement. Expansion
and job creation will be a “key focus for the road ahead.”  As the global economy teeters on sluggish growth in the
U.S. and slowing momentum in  China , European leaders have come
under pressure to scrap their adherence to budget discipline and
pull the 17-member euro area out of recession. G-20 nations
meeting in the Russian capital last week pledged to be flexible
in reining in deficits so as not to forestall expansion.  Portuguese bonds gained after Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  avoided early elections. President Anibal Cavaco Silva
said the governing coalition’s term should run its course until
2015 following a breakdown in efforts to broker a consensus
policy with the opposition Socialists.  Ten-year Portuguese yields fell 10 basis points to 6.7
percent at 8:40 a.m. in  London . The euro climbed 0.6 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  last week and traded at $1.3157 today.  First Visit  In the first visit to Athens by a U.S. treasury secretary
since the crisis began -- and on his third visit to Europe since
taking the post in February -- Lew met Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras to discuss
economic recovery and job creation.  Greece “has gone a long way in the last 12 months,”
Samaras said after the meeting, according to an e-mailed
statement from his office.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  also visited
Athens last week on his first such trip, warning the country
that there are no “shortcuts” to austerity -- even as he
opened the possibility of further debt relief.  As Greece stumbles in fulfilling budget targets and raising
tax revenues, the country’s woes have become a showcase in the
debate over fiscal austerity. At about 27 percent, unemployment
is more than double the level at which it stood when Greece
began receiving bailout payments in 2010. The economy has shrunk
22 percent since 2008.  Dismissal Law  Greek lawmakers last week passed a bill that put thousands
of state workers on notice for possible dismissal, a requirement
set out by the troika of international lenders -- the
 International Monetary Fund , the European Commission and the
 European Central Bank  -- to receive more bailout funding.  To keep Greece afloat, euro-area finance ministers last
year agreed to trim bailout-loan rates, suspend interest
payments and offer more to repay. A private-sector writedown cut
outstanding debt by about 100 billion euros ($131 billion).  The G-20 meeting in  Russia  exposed divisions among the
world’s richest nations over the pace and consequences of
scaling back budget deficits. Lew in May pressured European
policy makers to reconsider the pace of deficit reduction.  Lael Brainard, the Treasury’s undersecretary for
international affairs, said on July 15 that Europe risks
prolonged stagnation unless policy makers focus on spurring
consumer demand. Commenting at a conference in  Washington ,
Brainard listed  Europe  among economic laggards that “aren’t
doing enough to bolster domestic demand.”  ’National Salvation’  Friction over austerity measures also helped scupper a
“national salvation” agreement in  Portugal  last week, as the
opposition Socialist Party refused to agree to the government’s
plan for 4.7 billion euros in spending cuts. The measures are
required to complete a euro-area bailout plan.  The cuts were “one of the important obstacles” to a deal,
Socialist Party leader Antonio Jose Seguro said in Lisbon on
July 19 after six days of talks.  Still, Silva said late yesterday that Coelho’s government
will stay in office until its term ends in 2015. He reaffirmed
he doesn’t want to call early elections.  The government will ask lawmakers to approve a confidence
motion, said the president, who has the power to dissolve
parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  