-- Ex-Commerzbank Banker Pitches Bonds Backed by German Ship Loans
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-07-21T10:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/ex-commerzbank-banker-pitches-bonds-backed-by-german-ship-loans.html
Bonds backed by loans to German
shipping companies may draw investors struggling to meet return
targets while aiding an industry shunned by banks, according to
a former  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  banker pioneering the securities.  The debt will offer yields as high as 5.75 percent and
provide funds to companies struggling to obtain bank loans,
according to Markus Brueckner, managing partner of  Northern
Invest GmbH & Co. KG  in Hamburg. He teamed up with the
Luxembourg branch of Frankfurt-based private bank Hauck &
Aufhaeuser Privatbankiers KGaA to package the securities into
bonds for insurers, pension funds and family offices.  HSH Nordbank  AG, the world’s largest shipping lender,
Commerzbank and Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale have curbed
or halted lending to small and midsized companies as they seek
to meet new European capital rules. That’s left many ship owners
struggling to cover operating costs after the fleet expanded
while demand slowed, sending charter rates plunging.  “We can’t solve the shipping crisis, but we can solve
investor problems with shipping,” said Brueckner, who worked at
Commerzbank’s wealth-management unit for five years. “We are
focusing on institutional investors with no shipping experience,
but who have more capital than the banks exiting ship
financing.”  The proposed yield on the bonds compares with about 1.5
percent for Germany’s benchmark 10-year debt. The benchmark  DAX
index (DAX)  of equities gained 9.45 percent this year, while the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities rose 0.4 percent.  Shipping Losses  Commerzbank has said it wants to exit ship lending and
Nord/LB, as Norddeutsche Landesbank is known, in May raised loss
provisions against marine loans sevenfold. Moody’s Investors
Service this month cited HSH Nordbank’s shipping loans as a
reason for lowering the lender’s credit rating to Baa3.  “It makes me angry that executives asking banks for loans
smaller than 5 million euros ($6.6 million) are not taken
seriously,” said Brueckner. “Some companies can’t even borrow
a million, even if they secured the loan with a ship’s scrap
value of 3, 4 million euros.”  Appealing to institutional investors is one way to fill the
funding gap, said Brueckner, who worked for eight years as
managing director at  Hansa Hamburg Shipping International GmbH &
Co. KG  before starting Northern Invest. Hansa Hamburg has a
fleet that includes carriers of containers and oil, its website
shows.  ’Sleeping Giant’  The challenge is persuading investors to buy, according to
Brueckner. They may be wary because the bonds resemble
collateralized-debt obligations and asset-backed securities. The
value of many of those securities linked to risky, subprime
mortgages was wiped out by a surge in defaults and the collapse
of the U.S. housing market starting in 2007.  “There are similarities to CDOs and other asset-backed
securities, as we bundle loans, but we don’t have options or
derivatives attached,” said Brueckner. “We need to open the
valve for an ultra-conservative group of investors. We need to
wake up a sleeping giant that shouldn’t be sleeping anymore.”  With central banks holding  interest rates  near record lows,
pension funds are struggling to reach targeted returns of 4
percent to 4.5 percent, according to Brueckner. Northern Invest
is offering annual  returns of 4.25 percent to 5.75 percent ,
while shipping companies pay interest of 8 percent to 9.5
percent, he said.  Borrowing Costs  Northern Invest might be one of the last funding options
for companies seeking capital, the Hamburg-based German
Shipowners’ Association, or VDR, said by e-mail. “But given the
high cost for shipping companies compared to what they used to
pay for bank loans, we don’t rate it as particularly positive.”  Brueckner said he aims to issue 25 million euros of bonds
backed by shipping loans by the end of November, providing
enough capital for about a dozen vessels with a scrap value of 2
million to 6 million euros.  Telos GmbH , a Wiesbaden, Germany-based credit-rating company, will assign ratings to the bonds by
September, he said.  To hedge against the risk of falling steel prices, Northern
Invest set the investment limit at less than half of a vessel’s
scrap value while demanding a cash deposit from borrowers to
service interest payments.  “We work like a pawnshop giving 100 euros for a Rolex
worth much more,” said Brueckner. “Bottom line is that the
investment is 35 percent of a vessel’s scrap value.”  A second, 250 million-euro issue that takes account of
ships’ market value is planned for next summer, according to
Brueckner. He said he’s in negotiations with a “major European
insurer” and holding informal talks with Allianz AG, the
region’s largest insurance company.  “For many investors, the first portfolio is way too
small,” Brueckner said. “ Germany ’s industry has potential for
a 3 billion-euro market in bonds secured by half a vessel’s
market value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  