-- Froome Rides to Tour de France Win From Potholed African Road
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-07-21T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/froome-rides-to-tour-de-france-win-from-potholed-african-road.html
     July 22 (Bloomberg) --Chris Froome won the  Tour de France 
to crown a journey that began with him riding a mountain bike on
a potholed road near  Kenya ’s capital Nairobi with his mother
driving alongside him.  Froome crossed the finish line in Paris yesterday to win
the  centenary edition of the race  by 4 minutes, 20 seconds.
Nairo Quintana of Colombia was second in his first Tour, and
 Spain ’s Joaquim Rodriguez was third.  The son of a Briton who ran a safari tour operator in
Nairobi in the 1980s, Froome is the second straight U.K. winner
of the race with  Team Sky , which is bankrolled by  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  He was runner-up last year, when he
helped teammate Bradley Wiggins win.  “It’s funny to think where I came from, it’s a very
special feeling,” Froome, 28, told reporters.  Froome dominated the 21-stage Tour, holding the race-leading yellow jersey since winning the first mountain stage to
Ax-3-Domaines on July 6. A week later, he left rivals including
 Alberto Contador  trailing on a climb atop Mount Ventoux. Froome
extended his lead by winning one individual time trial and
coming second in another.  Six months after  Lance Armstrong  confessed to doping in
winning seven titles, Froome has received numerous questions
from media at the race about whether he too was cheating.
Antoine Vayer, a former trainer of the Festina team, wrote in Le
Monde newspaper on July 9 that according to his calculations
Froome’s power output to Ax-3-Domaines was similar to
Armstrong’s in 2003, describing it as “almost mutant.”  ‘I’m Not Cheating’  Team Sky released Froome’s physiological data from climbs
at this month’s Tour and other races to a trainer on the
Francaise des Jeux team, who said he saw no anomalies in his
performance, according to L’Equipe, the sports daily owned by
the Amaury family which controls the Tour. Froome said July 15
his success is down to hard work.  “Lance cheated, I’m not cheating, end of story,” Froome
told reporters. “I’m being accused of being a cheat and a liar
and that’s not cool.”  Froome’s earning potential from endorsements the next year
may be less than $1 million because of cycling’s association
with doping and his “incredibly quiet” personality,  Simon
Chadwick , a professor of sports business strategy at the U.K.’s
Coventry University, said.  “You’re up against it in cycling,” Chadwick said.
“Companies are very cautious, and the amount of money is
absolutely small.”  As a child in Nairobi where he went to a private school,
Froome wanted to be a cyclist, according to Liz Tsakiris, a
lifelong friend of his late mother, who died of cancer in 2008.
Froome’s mother would drive in a Mitsubishi Pajero while he rode
on a tarmac road to Lake Magadi, Tsakiris said.  ‘Wiry Fellow’  “He was a wiry little fellow, who was very determined
about everything,” Tsakiris, 67, said by phone from Naivasha,
Kenya.  Froome’s mother, Jane, noticed a cyclist in his 20s riding
a smarter bike and asked him to coach her son, Tsakiris said.
The man, David Kinjah, encouraged Froome and took him for rides
during school vacations.  “I probably ended up getting pushed most of the way
home,” Froome told reporters. “I didn’t like to think that
because I was younger I couldn’t do what he was doing.”  At age 14, Froome went to  South Africa ’s  St. John’s
College , where tuition and boarding fees top $16,600 per year.
His father had by then separated from his mother, who remained
in Kenya, where she was born. Froome had a roller-trainer in his
dormitory, and a Kenyan national flag on the wall, former
housemaster Allan Laing said. Froome, who lives in  Monaco  after
a stint in  Italy , says he feels British “100 percent.” His two
elder brothers went to a U.K. boarding school.  Lucky Break  After leaving school Froome gave spinning classes at a
Johannesburg cycling club, according to former teammate Ben
Mwanje, who raced with him on amateur squads at the time. Froome
abandoned an economics degree to try to become a pro cyclist,
Mwanje said by phone.  In 2008, he rode his first Tour de France, finishing 84th,
on a team sponsored by  Barloworld Ltd. (BAW) , a machinery distributor
near Johannesburg. Another recruit was South African Daryl
Impey, from whom Froome took the yellow jersey at this month’s
race. Barloworld’s decision to sponsor a team was a lucky break
for the two riders, Impey said.  “It’s tough finding a team in  Europe  from South  Africa ,
and hard to get visas to race,” Impey said in an interview last
week.  Career Setback  In Froome’s first year with Team Sky in 2010, his career
was set back when he contracted  schistosomiasis , a parasitic
disease also known as bilharzia, from drinking contaminated
water on a visit back to Africa, VeloNews website reported in
September 2011.  The disease, which went undiagnosed for a year, affected
his performance and he was initially offered less than 100,000
pounds ($152,670) -- below the average pro rider salary -- to
stay at Sky in 2012, according to Richard Moore, author of a
book about the team, “Sky’s the Limit.”  Froome said last week he had the parasite that carries the
disease in his system in January. The illness is kept at bay by
a drug that kills the parasite, Froome said, adding he plans
another check-up next month.  After a breakthrough second at the  Vuelta a Espana  in late
2011, Froome negotiated a 1.2 million-pound salary, 12 times
Sky’s first offer, Moore said.  A Tour de  France  winner might get a $1 million bonus,
former Euskaltel squad manager Miguel Madariaga said.
Traditionally, the winner splits the 450,000-euro ($591,000)
race prize money with teammates. For Froome, his achievement may
beat any cash windfall.  “He said he wanted to be a cyclist when he was little but
nobody took him very seriously,” Tsakiris said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff at the Tour de France on
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  