-- Froome Wins Tour de France as Kittel Takes Last Stage
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-07-21T20:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/froome-of-britain-wins-100th-edition-of-cycling-s-tour-de-france.html
Chris Froome, a Briton with Team
Sky, won the  Tour de France ’s centenary edition after dominating
the race since the first of six mountain stages.  Nairo Quintana, a Colombian competing in cycling’s most
prestigious race for the first time, finished 4 minutes and 20
seconds back.  Spain ’s Joaquin Rodriguez was third.  “It brought tears to my eyes,” Froome said about crossing
the line in Paris with his teammates. “I expected it to be big,
but this is something else.”  The 6-foot-1 (1.86-meter) Froome crossed the line with his
face splattered with dirt from a rain-soaked Champs-Elysees
avenue in Paris. Sprinter Marcel Kittel won the 83-mile stage,
his fourth stage victory.  Froome’s victory gives Britain and Sky the title for the
second year in a row. The Kenyan-born rider was runner-up last
year after helping Bradley Wiggins become the first British
winner. Wiggins dropped out of the Giro de Italia in May with a
lung infection, and ruled out competing in the Tour, which
started June 29.  Kittel, a German with the Argos-Shimano team, held off
compatriot Andre Greipel and the U.K.’s  Mark Cavendish  to win
the stage in a photo finish.  All Together  Froome, 28, finished the ride through Paris 43 seconds
behind Quintana as he waited for his team. Wearing the yellow
jersey, he linked arms with other Sky riders dressed in black
as they crossed the finish line.  The 21 stages of the Tour covered 3,404 kilometers over
three weeks with two rest days. Froome won three stages.  In the eighth stage, the 152-pound (69 kilo) Froome
took the lead from  South Africa ’s Daryl Impey by winning to the
Ax-3-Domaines ski resort. He extended his advantage by finishing
second and first in two individual time trials, and winning a
stage to Mount Ventoux. Froome was administered oxygen atop the
1,912-meter (6,273-foot) mountain after feeling faint and short
of breath following a near six-hour ride.  Two-time champion  Alberto Contador  couldn’t match Froome in
the mountains, and yesterday lost his place in the top three
when Movistar’s Quintana and Katusha’s Rodriguez broke away on
the final climb to Annecy-Semnoz.  Quintana's Jerseys  Quintana, 23, won that stage, ahead of Rodriguez and Froome
and finishes with the polka-dot jersey for top climber and white
jersey for best young rider.  Froome is son of a Briton who ran a safari business in
Nairobi in the 1980s. After abandoning a university degree in
economics in Johannesburg, he turned professional in 2007.  He rode the Tour de  France  for the first time with the
Barloworld team in 2008, finishing 84th overall. He was hired by
Team Sky, which is bankrolled by  British Sky Broadcasting Plc (BSY) ,
 News Corp . and  Sky Italia , for the 2010 season, when he said his
results was set back by illness.  His breakthrough year was in 2011 when he was runner-up to
Juan Jose Cobo in the Vuelta a Espana race. At last year’s Tour,
Froome slowed down on some climbs to help Wiggins win the race.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  