-- G-20 Reaches for Growth as China Changes Lending Rules
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-07-21T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/g-20-reaches-for-growth-as-china-changes-lending-rules.html
Global finance chiefs sought to
buttress the global economic recovery with pledges to avoid
spooking markets as  China  moved to scrap a lending rule that had
constrained its banks.  Group of 20 nations will pursue “carefully calibrated and
clearly communicated” policy moves so that the U.S. and  Japan 
don’t cause cross-border damage when they start rolling back
stimulus, they said after a two-day meeting of finance chiefs in
Moscow. They will move “more rapidly” toward market-determined
exchange rate systems, following China’s internal banking
change, according to a July 20 statement.  “China’s action is probably the one thing that will help
markets,”  Lena Komileva , chief economist at G+ Economics in
 London , said in a July 20 telephone interview. “Global markets
are dominated by a butterfly effect. If the Fed is to change
domestic policy in response to U.S. economic conditions, it’s
going to have global consequences.”  The G-20 heeded calls from emerging-market countries to
guard against shockwaves when U.S. growth is secure enough for
the Federal Reserve to cut back on its bond buying, according to
the statement. It also repeated that nations should avoid
competitive currency devaluations.  Speculation about developed economies scaling back their
unprecedented monetary easing has roiled emerging-market
currencies and bonds since G-20 finance chiefs last met in
April. The dollar fell for a second week versus most major
peers.  Bernanke’s Reassurance  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank wouldn’t
slow its monthly bond-buying program unless warranted by
economic conditions. Policy makers also sought to assure
investors that the Fed will hold down the benchmark interest
rate after ending bond buying.  Treasury 10-year yields fell 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 2.48 percent this week in New York,
Bloomberg Bond Trader data showed. This week’s drop, combined
with a 16 basis-point decline the previous five days, was the
biggest back-to-back decrease since the period ended Aug. 31.  A U.S. Treasury Department official said the G-20
recognized that financial-market volatility has returned to
normal. The official acknowledged a lot of interest in U.S.
monetary and fiscal policy, while reiterating  Washington ’s call
to do more to help the euro region emerge from recession.  ‘Proper Manner’  The improving U.S. economy means a shift in Fed policy is
coming and it will need to take place “in the proper manner,”
according to Indonesian Finance Minister Chatib Basri.  “The question is about the pace,” he said in an
interview. “Of course we have to wait for what will happen in
the next couple of months.”  Global yields surged and equities fell after Bernanke
signaled the U.S. central bank may start tapering its monthly
stimulus program this year. U.S. 10-year yields, which climbed
36 basis points in June, have pared increases over the past two
weeks as Bernanke eased those concerns in recent appearances.  On July 18 he said it was “way too early to make any
judgment” about starting tapering in September. The
previous day, he said the Fed’s quantitative easing is “by no
means on a preset course” and may be reduced or expanded if
needed, depending on economic conditions.  “We’ve all learned something from this,”  Bank of Canada 
Governor Stephen Poloz said. A certain amount of reaction “is
inevitable. You have to be mentally prepared for that and
continue to emphasize that message and be very clear.”  From South Korea to South Africa, anticipation that the Fed
would soon pare back its quantitative easing efforts drew calls
for coordination so as not to choke global demand.  ‘Crucial Challenge’  Several countries pointed out possible negative spillover
effects emerging economies may face from developed economies
unwinding stimulus, South Korean Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok
said. The “crucial challenge” is how financial markets manage
these signals to avoid harming emerging markets and their
currencies, South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  “We really focused on growth and employment and what is
the policy mix that will help improve growth encourage and
create jobs,” International Monetary Fund Managing Director
Christine Lagarde said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “Central banks share that concern.”  China eliminated the lower limit on lending rates at its
financial institutions in a move to address slowing growth and
expand the role of markets. The  People’s Bank of China 
acknowledged that it was a limited step and said that freeing up
deposit rates would be more important.  ‘Always Beneficial’  “Removing various limitations is always beneficial,”
Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov told reporters.  “It’s
an additional stimulus so that the slowing growth, including in
China, we’re seeing may be halted.”  Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen represented the U.S. central
bank in Moscow, with Bernanke not in attendance. Brazilian
Finance Minister Guido Mantega also didn’t participate, while
Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty was forced to spend the
weekend at a hotel in the Russian capital after falling ill with
a stomach flu, replaced in the talks by his deputy, Jean Boivin.  “Having a G-20 meeting at the present juncture without the
chairman of the Federal Reserve is like Hamlet without the
prince,” Paulo Nogueira Batista,  Brazil ’s executive director at
the IMF, said in an interview.  ‘Credible, Ambitious’  According to the final statement, G-20 nations will offer
“credible, ambitious” fiscal strategies when leaders meet in
St. Petersburg in September. Those strategies must be
“sufficiently flexible to take into account near-term economic
conditions” while also making debt levels more sustainable,
according to the statement.  Germany  had sought tougher language that would require
medium-term budget targets and push the U.S. and Japan to follow
through on previous commitments, said an official from a G-20
country. Germany in turn came under fire from the U.S. and South
Korea, who pressed Europe to prioritize growth over debt-cutting
measures.  The G-20 hasn’t yet decided if these targets will be
binding, a second official said. Leaders will use the September
summit to decide how to proceed on the fiscal strategies, said
the official, who asked not to be named because the talks aren’t
public.  Risks ‘Widespread’  The G-20 acknowledged that global risks aren’t confined to
Europe, German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told
reporters after the meeting. The G-20 said in its final
statement that the U.S. and Japanese economies are
strengthening, while growth slows in  emerging markets  and the
euro area remains mired in recession.  “The global risks are widespread, and no longer, as in
former years, only focused on the euro zone, and this view is
also shared by all my colleagues,” he said.  The G-20 also endorsed the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development’s plan for revamping global tax
codes. The endorsement gives a boost to the Paris-based OECD’s
efforts to prevent the largest companies from using complicated
ownership structures and transfer pricing to avoid paying taxes
where they do most of their business.  Schaeuble cautioned that caution is needed when considering
how fast the recommendations could be phased in.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Moscow at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman in Moscow at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  