-- Indonesia Inflation Rate Is Poised to Peak in July, Basri Says
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-07-21T09:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/indonesia-inflation-rate-is-poised-to-peak-in-july-basri-says.html
Indonesia ’s  inflation rate  is poised
to peak after rising “quite substantially” in June and July,
Finance Minister Chatib Basri said.  “Inflation will peak in July,” Basri said in an interview
in Moscow yesterday, where he attended a meeting of the Group of
20 finance ministers and central bank governors. Price gains
quickened after fuel costs rose and the rate may be back to
normal in a “couple of months,” he said.  Basri, who last month oversaw Indonesia’s first price
increase for subsidized fuel in five years as Southeast Asia’s
largest economy grapples to cut energy spending, said fuel
consumption fell in June. Government efforts to open the local
market to  imports  will help curb price gains, the minister said.  Consumer prices  rose 5.9 percent last month from the year
earlier, the fastest pace since May 2011, based on the latest
data from the  Central Bureau of Statistics . Price gains may
accelerate to an annual rate of 6 percent this month, Basri said
July 1.  Economic growth is more important because  job creation  is a
priority for the government, Basri said yesterday. “It doesn’t
mean we would like to let inflation go up,” he said. “ We try
to overcome those issues and strike a balance.”  Indonesia raised subsidized fuel prices in June to try to
curb current account and budget deficits that have led investors
to push the rupiah down to a near four-year low.  The central bank has lifted its benchmark  interest rate  by
a higher-than-forecast 75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage
points, in the past two months to cool inflation.  ‘Relatively Small’  The rupiah has fallen 4.2 percent against the dollar in the
past three months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Malay, Philippine, Thai and Indian currencies all had steeper
losses.  “If you look in some countries in  Southeast Asia , actually
the depreciation of the rupiah is considered relatively small
compared to other currencies,” Basri said.  The rate increases, combined with lower prices for the
country’s commodity exports such as coal and slowing investment,
will probably limit economic growth to 6.05 percent this year,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. The economy
expanded 6.23 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Chatterjee in Jakarta at 
 nchatterjee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Vercoe at 
 pvercoe@bloomberg.net  