-- Mminele Sees South African Price Pressures Spreading
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   R y a n   C h i l c o t e
-- 2013-07-21T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/mminele-sees-south-african-price-pressures-spreading.html
South African price pressures are
spreading in the economy because of a weaker rand, leaving
little room for the central bank to cut interest rates, Deputy
Governor  Daniel Mminele  said.  “Clearly the scope for reducing interest rates further is
limited and it will be a function of how the data comes in,”
Mminele said in an interview with Bloomberg TV in Moscow on July
20. “What we’re seeing now is some second-round effects, some
lagged effects, of the currency” weakness.  The  Reserve Bank  left its benchmark repurchase rate at 5
percent for a sixth meeting last week, with the rand’s 14
percent slump against the dollar this year making it difficult
for policy makers to spur economic growth. The Monetary Policy
Committee lowered its growth forecast for this year to 2 percent
from 2.4 percent as mining strikes and a recession in Europe
curb exports.  While  inflation  slowed for the first time in four months to
5.6 percent in May, that’s likely to be temporary, Mminele said.
The central bank expects inflation to average 5.9 percent this
year, up from a previous estimate of 5.8 percent, and to exceed
the bank’s target in the third quarter, when it will average 6.3
percent.  Price pressures remain strong because of rising wage
demands and higher food costs, Mminele said in the interview in
the Russian capital, where he was attending the Group of 20
finance ministers’ meeting. He also downplayed the rand’s 3.5
percent rebound against the dollar since June 20 as investors
reduced expectations of how fast the U.S. Federal Reserve will
scale back its stimulus.  The rand gained 0.6 percent to 9.8741 versus the dollar on
July 19.  Faster inflation doesn’t mean the bank will necessarily
raise rates either, Mminele said.  “It’s not a matter of moving in lockstep with what other
countries are doing,” he said in response to a question about
whether the bank could follow in the steps of Indonesia and
 Brazil  -- two other  emerging markets  struggling with a
combination of slow growth and fast inflation -- and raise
 interest rates .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in Moscow at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Chilcote in Moscow at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  