-- Netanyahu Says Talks Meant to Preserve Israel’s Jewish Identity
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-07-21T11:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/netanyahu-says-talks-meant-to-preserve-israel-s-jewish-identity.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said planned peace talks with the Palestinians are
designed to maintain Israel’s Jewish identity and prevent the
creation of another Iranian proxy on the country’s borders.  “One of the goals I set for the process itself is blocking
the formation of a binational state” of Jews and Arabs,
Netanyahu told his cabinet today at its weekly meeting,
according to an e-mailed statement from his office. The other,
he said, is “preventing the establishment of another Iranian-sponsored terrorist state,” an allusion that would include the
Hamas-ruled  Gaza Strip .  Netanyahu also said if talks ripen into an agreement, he
will bring the accord before Israeli voters in a referendum.
Some members of his governing coalition oppose the establishment
of a Palestinian state on lands Israel captured in 1967, a key
element of any deal.  A Netanyahu ally said Israel has agreed to release an
unspecified number of Palestinian prisoners to help get the two
sides back to the negotiating table after a three-year impasse.
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry , who brokered the resumption
of talks, said on July 19 that the two sides will seek to meet
in  Washington  within the next week or so.  Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas  brought the terms
underlying the planned talks before Palestinian leaders today.  Market Indifferent  Israel’s TA-25 Index dropped 0.3 percent to 1223.59 at
12:30 p.m. today in  Tel Aviv .  “Israelis are still skeptical regarding a  peace process ”
and “don’t necessarily see any immediate impact” on the
markets,  Jonathan Katz , a Jerusalem-based economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said in a telephone interview. “If the talks do
proceed to a level where they become more concrete and show a
greater chance of success, then the market will become more
attentive. For now it’s too early.”  Negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians broke down
after Netanyahu declined to extend a 10-month building freeze on
new construction in  West Bank  settlements. The Palestinians, who
see the Israeli-occupied West Bank and east  Jerusalem  as the
core of a future state including Gaza, maintain that a growing
Israeli presence on those lands is a sign of bad faith.
Netanyahu has said negotiations should not be tethered to
conditions.  Details Undisclosed  Kerry wouldn’t provide details of the agreement and gave no
indication that either the Israelis or the Palestinians had
budged from previous core positions. Speculation about its terms
is “conjecture” because “the people who know the facts are
not talking about them,” he said.  Netanyahu hasn’t agreed to Palestinian demands to suspend
settlement construction or declare that the final accord on
borders will be based on Israel’s lines before 1967, said
Israeli Minister of International Relations Yuval Steinitz. The
Palestinians have committed to at least nine months of
negotiation, during which they will not undertake punitive
diplomatic actions against Israel in the international arena, he
told Israel Radio.  Steinitz said his government had agreed to free an
unspecified number of long-serving Palestinian prisoners who had
committed serious offenses against Israelis. Deputy Defense
Minister  Danny Danon , a member of Netanyahu’s own Likud party,
opposed such a plan, saying “murderers must not be released as
an ’act of good will’ or as a prize for returning to the
negotiating table.”  Prisoner Release  Netanyahu will find it difficult to get cabinet approval,
and even if he does, “it will cost him politically” because
relatives of people killed in Palestinian attacks will mount a
legal challenge,  Gerald Steinberg , political science professor
at  Bar-Ilan University  outside Tel Aviv, said in a phone
interview.  Kerry said talks would be attended by Palestinian
negotiator Saeb Erekat, Israeli Justice Minister  Tzipi Livni  and
Netanyahu’s negotiator, Yitzhak Molcho.  “I’m sure with all my heart that it is the right thing to
do for our future, our security, for the economy and  Israel ’s
values,” Livni said yesterday on Facebook. “In the negotiating
room, we will safeguard the national interests and security of
Israel as a Jewish and democratic state. To this I am
committed.”  Hamas denounced the planned talks. It “only serves the
occupation and gives it a cover for its settlement expansion,”
Hamas spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Hamas, considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
U.S. and European Union, ousted Abbas’s forces from Gaza in
2007, a year after winning parliamentary elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  