-- Netflix Rules as S&P 500 Index’s Top Stock, Spurs Bubble
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-07-22T20:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/netflix-rule-as-no-1-s-p-performer-but-.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  has become the best
performing U.S. stock in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in 2013
and the second most expensive, and therein lies a tale of
disagreement.  Investors who dig into company filings can find negative
free  cash flow , a surge in liabilities for new movie and TV-show
content and a long-term increase in unpaid subscribers.
Moreover, perceived limits on customer numbers and the high
price of shares have led 26 of the 37 Bloomberg-listed a nalysts 
covering the stock to advise investors to sell or hold stakes.  Most shareholders aren’t listening to talk about a bubble
or other bad news. They love Netflix.  Michael Pachter , a managing director at Wedbush Securities
Inc. in  Los Angeles , says a lot of investors are dazzled by the
growth potential of online businesses, such as Amazon.com Inc.,
a startup-turned-industry-giant that sold $16 billion of
merchandise in the first quarter. As long as there is growth,
these investors, “in a weird bubble of Internet stocks,” show
little concern about the finances of online companies, he said.  “Netflix looks like Amazon to most investors,” said
Pachter, who rates the No. 1 Internet video subscription service
“underperform” and has a target price of $65.  Earnings Call  Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  may get questions
about the Los Gatos-California-based company’s performance when
he hosts a videoconference today to discuss second-quarter
earnings. Hastings, 52, who owns about $690 million in Netflix
stock, will also be in position to trumpet the success of the
drama series, “House of Cards,” which received nine Emmy Award
nominations last week, including best drama. It’s the first time
an Internet streaming service has vied for these top
entertainment honors. Netflix got 14 Emmy nominations in all.  Fielding questions from fellow analysts on the call will be
 Richard Greenfield  of BTIG LLC, which specializes in trading and
services for  hedge funds . He saw Netflix stock shoot past his
April target of $250 and plans to reassess his projection after
he hears the results today. One probable positive that’s already
clear, he said: The Emmy nominations may encourage talented
people to participate in Netflix’s “next big show.”  Investors who want to check if the naysayers have a point
can start with a review of cautionary disclosures Netflix has
made in regulatory filings and in correspondence with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. As with most CEOs, such
items aren’t the principal focus of Hastings’s popular
accentuate-the-positive message in telling his company’s story.  Content Spending  Front and center in such an analysis is how much Netflix,
with a market capitalization of almost $15 billion, spends on
content. It pays about $500 million a quarter, while running a
deficit in free cash flow in the past two quarters, company
filings show.  It has $5.7 billion of binding contracts to pay for and
license streaming content, of which about $2.4 billion is
payable in less than a year, according to its first-quarter
filing. Another $2.7 billion is due in one to three years.  In a December pact, Netflix probably agreed to pay more
than $350 million a year for Walt Disney Co. movies, estimated
 Tony Wible , an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott in
Philadelphia. Netflix doesn’t disclose such details, spokesman
Jonathan Friedland said.  DreamWorks Deal  Warner Bros. Television Group is another beneficiary of
Netflix’s spending, providing such dramas as “Revolution.”
Lionsgate Television produced one of Netflix’s original series,
the prison comedy “Orange Is the New Black.” Netflix has a
multiyear pact with Twentieth Century Fox Television to stream
past seasons of “New Girl” and has agreed to buy shows from
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. Netflix also offers HBO’s “Game
of Thrones” on DVD.  First-quarter free cash flow was “negative $42 million”
because of spending for such shows, Hastings’s April letter to
shareholders said. Pachter, whose unit is part of the financial
services and investment firm, Wedbush Inc., said Netflix made a
conscious decision to spend aggressively to buy new content even
if that meant running out of cash.  “They’re financially fragile by choice,” he said. His
concern: “If their cash flow continues negative they could have
a problem.”  Netflix itself says the same in its last annual report:
“To the extent subscriber and/or revenue growth do not meet our
expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be
adversely affected as a result of content licensing commitments
and accelerated payment requirements of certain licenses.”  Raising Prices  Netflix could handle content payments by raising prices to
subscribers. Hastings has said he doesn’t favor that. No wonder.
In 2011, Netflix announced it would separate its DVD-by-mail and
streaming plans, with each available for $7.99 a month.
Customers with joint streaming and DVDs plans saw bills jump to
$15.99 from $9.99. After that 60 percent bump, about 800,000
subscribers canceled. The stock hit a low in November of that
year of $63.86, down from a 2011 high of about $299. It’s still
not back to that level.  If Hastings doesn’t budge on streaming prices, he might
have to keep selling stock or debt. That wouldn’t be good for
shareholders, Pachter said. In February, Netflix sold $500
million of  junk bonds  to help fund programming and retire debt.  Netflix also is adding business risks as it licenses more
original series that don’t have a proven track record like the
hit AMC “Mad Men” series it offers.  “There is always the chance any particular show could
flop,” said an April report by New York-based Jefferies Group
LLC, a securities and investment-banking firm. “Prior content
deals offered a more predictable return profile.”  Internet TV  One of Hastings’s key messages to investors has been about
that growth Pachter says Internet investors are focused on. The
CEO says Netflix is “leading the way” toward “ Internet TV ,”
a concept designed to rival cable.  Other key metrics in assessing the company include revenue,
subscriber numbers and, in the long term, profit. Netflix
revenue was $3.6 billion last year, up from $3.2 billion the
year before.  Profit was $17.2 million in 2012, after rising annually
since 2003. Profits peaked at $226.1 million in 2011. That drop
in 2012 was partly because the company offered more free-trial
subscriptions. Overseas that promotion resulted in a first-quarter loss of $11 per customer, according to company filings.  The profit trend improved in the first quarter. Net income
of $2.7 million compared with a year-earlier loss of $4.6
million. For all of 2013, analysts tracked by Bloomberg estimate
profit of $1.44 a share in profit, an increase from 2012’s 29
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  52-Week High  In the face of these results, the company’s stock reached a
52-week closing high of $267.92 on July 17 and now trades at 383
times 12-month profit, surpassed only by Alcoa Inc. in the  S&P
500 , data compiled by Bloomberg show. Its estimated
price/earnings ratio for 2013 is 184. The P/E ratio for the  S&P
500 Index  is currently 16. Netflix’s 185 percent gain this year
is the best in the S&P 500.  Netflix fell as much as $7.46, or 2.8 percent, and closed
down $2.62 to $261.96 on trading on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange
as the company said it signed up 630,000 new U.S. Internet
customers in the second quarter, missing analysts’ estimates.  “The current valuation reflects unrealistic expectations
across all major economic and strategic levers of the
business,” Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst Carlos Kirjner
wrote in a June 25 report when he downgraded the stock to
“underperform” with a price target of $180, about a third
lower than what it closed at last week.  At the same time, Netflix has to deal with the perception
that market forces may interfere with its customer-growth goals.
Hastings has said he would like to get 60 million to 90 million
U.S. customers, about two to three times  HBO ’s domestic total.  Limited Market  Here is how one skeptic sees that plan: Netflix’s potential
market is the 45 million households that have broadband
connections powerful enough to support Netflix’s streaming video
products and to connect their TVs to the Internet today, Kirjner
said in his June 25 report. That market may grow to 65 million
in several years, and Netflix might eventually get as many as 43
million subscribers, he said. Mobile broadband will not support
Netflix “at scale” when carriers place data caps, he said. In
a July 15 report, Kirjner said his forecast of the potential
market is “perhaps too generous.”  Netflix disagrees, saying customers can use a mobile device
with WiFi. Its “addressable market” is 80 million U.S.
households with some kind of broadband  Internet access ,
according to spokesman Friedland.  There has been a debate too about Netflix subscriber
numbers. Consider the April 22 report by Variety that Netflix
had passed HBO in “total” U.S. subscribers. That report by the
entertainment industry bible and other news organizations played
a role in one of Netflix’s best  stock moves : a 24 percent gain.  Unpaid Subscriptions  The reports didn’t mention that Netflix subscriber numbers
included 1.3 million U.S. users who didn’t pay because of free
trials, regulatory filings show. HBO is still the leader in
paying U.S. subscribers, according to the SNL Kagan research
firm. HBO had about 28.8 million U.S. subscribers in the first
quarter, SNL Kagan estimated. Netflix had 27.9 million paying
U.S. online subscribers, it said.  As of March 31, 5.7 percent of Netflix’s 36.3 million U.S.
and international online members weren’t paying -- 4.8 percent
of online and DVD customers.  “The ebb and flow of free trials is directly tied to the
number of markets we open each year,” Friedland said. “We have
never said as a company that we passed HBO.”  Netflix may also find the audience goal for its product
hits a wall, just as HBO has.  Customer Limit  “HBO has hovered at just under 30 million for several
years,” SNL Kagan said in its tally of first-quarter numbers,
referring to U.S. subscribers. “Showtime and Starz will
continue to slow as they get closer to 30 million.”  Netflix will probably pass HBO in paid U.S. subscribers
within the next two quarters, SNL Kagan predicted.  Netflix’s percentage of non-paying subscribers has grown in
recent years with its emphasis on U.S. and overseas online
streaming, though it’s down from last year. The 4.8 percent of
Internet and DVD members who weren’t paying as of March 31
compares with 3.1 percent in 2009, before it began emphasizing
its streaming service, company filings show. A year ago its
percentage of non-paying Internet and DVD customers was 5.9
percent.  Subscriber Definition  Netflix changed its definitions of subscribers in its 2011
annual report to reflect changes in subscription plans, also
deciding to stop counting members on payment holds, and how to
treat cancellations.  Later, Netflix changed its written disclosures on paid
membership after the SEC demanded it. The SEC, which polices
information relayed to investors, asked Netflix in a June 27,
2012, letter what “differentiates” paid subscriptions from
total subscriptions, and told it to disclose the answer in
filings.  Netflix answered in a July 25, 2012, letter that a
subscription is the right to receive its services, after
providing a method of payment. Netflix told the SEC that total
subscribers included not only free trials and cancellations but
also “payment holds” at that time -- accounts Netflix couldn’t
get authorization to charge.  Footnote Disclosure  Netflix, which later removed payment holds from the count,
promised to define total subscribers in future filings. It did
so -- in footnotes. Its first-quarter report filed April 26 has
such a footnote, which isn’t included in the shareholder letter
announcing results.  Amazon, whose video service is a small part of the total
company, doesn’t disclose subscriber numbers. It has fewer than
10 million U.S. customers, estimated Deana Myers, a senior
analyst at SNL Kagan. Hulu, which isn’t publicly traded,
discloses paying members on its website. Myers estimates that
U.S. members of Hulu’s paid service will be 4 million by the end
of the year, up from 2.4 million in December.  The SEC told Netflix in two letters last year that
investors could benefit from knowing just how much the company
was spending on content every quarter, considering “the
magnitude of this cost component.” Netflix successfully
resisted, arguing it wasn’t required by the rules to disclose
and that investors would be hurt more than helped because
competitors would benefit.  “A deeper understanding of our content acquisition costs
would assist competitors in designing and implementing their
content deals,” it  wrote on Oct. 24, 2012 .  Now, Netflix tells investors it spends $2 billion a year on
content. SEC filings show it added $591.9 million to its content
library in the first quarter, after spending $2.5 billion in
2012 and $2.3 billion in 2011.  Total Liabilities  Netflix’s total liabilities, recorded at $3.6 billion,
would be at least $3.3 billion higher if all of its contractual
obligations for content were on its balance sheet, based on data
in its latest quarterly filing. Netflix said the $3.3 billion
doesn’t have to be reflected on its balance sheet yet because it
doesn’t meet criteria for asset recognition.  Disclosures by Netflix have sometimes confused analysts
following the stock. Take “Netflix Originals,” a term the
company uses for shows such as “House of Cards.” Though they
premiere on Netflix, the company doesn’t own them and can’t make
money from selling or licensing them to third parties.  Rival Amazon is now offering “House of Cards,” which is
owned by  Media Rights Capital , an independent film and
television studio partly backed by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. It
charges $1.99 an episode on its pay-per-view service. It also
sells a DVD version.  Arms Race  Hastings, who told a 2011 UBS AG conference that he’s in an
“arms race” with HBO to dominate Web-based TV viewing, is
arguably running a different, less lucrative business from its
designated rival’s pay-TV and production operation, which
produced income of $1.6 billion last year. Netflix is
technologically closer to Hulu LLC or Amazon’s online video
service because it is accessed online on demand through
computers or smartphones or by mail in DVD format.  Microsoft Corp., Google Inc., Apple Inc. or Comcast Corp.
could start a successful competitor to Netflix, Bernstein
analyst Kirjner said in his July 15 report.  “We believe the competitive threat is one of the greatest
blind spots for Netflix investors,” he said.  One famous Netflix holder has had a happy experience with
his investment. Sort of. Billionaire financier  Carl Icahn  made a
$168.9 million bet on Netflix stock and options in October. His
play: Microsoft, Amazon or Verizon Communications Inc. might be
interested in buying Netflix amid a “great consolidation”
coming to the business of streaming movies and TV shows.  Then he turned a little sour. He lambasted Netflix’s “poor
governance” in November after it adopted a poison pill to deter
such acquirers. He returned to the pro-Netflix camp after stock
price increases this year produced a huge profit for him.  “When you make $600-$700 million, you don’t punch the CEO
in the face,” Icahn, 77, told  Bloomberg News  in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  