-- NTSB Risks Skewing Asiana Crash Probe, Korea Pilots’ Unions Say
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-07-22T04:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/ntsb-risks-skewing-asiana-flight-crash-probe-pilots-unions-say.html
The National Transportation Safety
Board’s emphasis on “possibility of a pilot error” as the
cause of the crash of Asiana Flight 214 this month could affect
the results of the investigation, two unions said.  The Asiana Pilots Union and Air Line Pilots Association of
 Korea  have communicated “concerns about the possibility of
inaccurately identifying the cause of the accident” on a San
Francisco runway because the NTSB’s press conferences have
focused on whether pilot error or speed played a role, according
to a statement yesterday.  “The purpose of an accident investigation is not to
benefit national interest of one country or enhance the
corporate image of an airline, but to prevent the same or
similar accidents from occurring in the future,” according to
the statement. “The investigation must rule out any elements,
including any prejudices or intended plans, which could affect
the result of an investigation.”  The pilots of  Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560) ’s Flight 214 made no
mention of the plane’s speed in its final moments until less
than nine seconds before it hit a seawall on July 6, NTSB
Chairman  Deborah Hersman  said at a July 11 briefing. From the
time the plane descended below 500 feet, the first mention of
speed is heard after an automated system called out an altitude
of 100 feet, Hersman said.  ‘Variety of Factors’  “The NTSB has not narrowed the scope of the investigation
to any one area of focus,” the agency’s spokeswoman  Kelly Nantel  said in an e-mailed statement. “We continue to look into
a variety of factors that may be causal or may have contributed
to the accident.”  A pilot from the Asiana union has been sent to the accident
site to help with the investigation, according to the unions’
statement.  South Korean government said last week that it plans to
draw up stricter aviation rules in about three months as the
crash raises concerns about the nation’s safety regulations.  Three people were killed while more than 300 survived after
Asiana’s Boeing Co. 777 crashed, the first fatal airline
accident in the U.S. since 2009. It was South Korea’s first
passenger jet crash since 1997. In July 2011, an Asiana cargo
freighter plane went down at sea south of Jeju island.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  