-- Home Sales Probably Increased in June: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-07-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/home-sales-probably-increased-in-june-u-s-economy-preview.html
Home sales probably climbed in June
to the highest level since November 2009, showing residential
real estate is becoming a mainstay of U.S. economic growth.  Combined purchases of existing and new houses rose to a
5.74 million annualized pace last month, according to the median
forecasts of economists in a Bloomberg survey. Other figures may
show manufacturing is improving, eliminating a source of
weakness for the expansion.  The housing gains will probably be sustained as would-be
buyers with access to credit rush to lock in  mortgage rates 
before they climb much more. The construction-industry rebound,
combined with rising  demand for autos , is contributing to a
stabilizing in manufacturing that will help the world’s largest
economy gain momentum in the second half of the year.  “The housing market is clearly recovering this year about
as fast as you’d expect in a normal expansion,” said Mike Englund, chief economist at Action Economics LLC in Boulder,
 Colorado . The rebound is “a big plus for June, July
manufacturing,” along with improvement in the auto market, he
said.  Sales of  previously owned  homes rose to 5.26 million
annualized pace in June from 5.18 million the prior month,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed before
the National Association of Realtors’ report tomorrow.  On July 24, Commerce Department data will show purchases of
 new homes  increased to a 484,000 pace last month, the highest
level since June 2008, according to the median forecast in the
Bloomberg survey.  Growing Confidence  A report last week showed  builder confidence  rose in July
to the highest level in seven years as companies grew more
upbeat about sales prospects.  KB Home (KBH)  based in Los Angeles is among companies enjoying
improving demand for housing.  “Housing dynamics are significantly better than they were
a year ago,” Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey T. Mezger said in
a June 27 earnings call. “We are still in the early innings of
a recovery that is continuing to accelerate. The positive
factors underpinning the current housing recovery remain fully
in place and will continue to drive favorable market
fundamentals.”  Speculation that the Federal Reserve is getting closer to
paring its bond buying has caused mortgage rates to increase.
The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan was at 4.37 percent in
the third week of July, up from a record low of 3.31 percent in
November, according to data from Freddie Mac.  Bernanke’s View  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke tried to reassure markets
during his two-day semi-annual testimony before Congress last
week that the central bank is monitoring the situation.  “We will be watching to see if the movement in mortgage
rates has any material effect on housing,” Bernanke said during
questioning before the House Committee on Financial Services.
“If we think that mortgage-rate increases are threatening that
progress, then we would have to take additional action in the
monetary sphere to try to address that.”  Builder shares have suffered over concern that the increase
in borrowing costs will hurt demand. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index, which includes Lennar Corp.
and PulteGroup Inc., has slumped 15.7 percent since reaching a
six-year high on May 14. The S&P 500 Index has climbed 2.5
percent over the same period.  Nonetheless, strength in the housing market has lent
momentum to manufacturing, which is also being helped by a
strong auto market.  Durable goods  orders climbed 1 percent in June, a third
consecutive gain, Commerce Department figures will show on July
25, based on the median projection of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Orders excluding transportation gear, a category that
is volatile from month to month, will advance 0.5 percent,
matching the increase in May, economists said.  “Manufacturing expanded in most districts since the
previous report, with many districts reporting increases in new
orders, shipments, or production,” the Fed’s  Beige Book , which
is based on regional surveys of businesses, said last week.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  