-- London’s Royal Borough of Heathrow to Mimic Denver Hub-Swap
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-07-22T14:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/london-mayor-s-royal-borough-of-heathrow-mimics-denver-hub-swap.html
London Mayor  Boris Johnson  can point
to the Rockies as he seeks to convince taxpayers and politicians
to turn Heathrow Airport into a housing project and build a new
hub 50 miles away at a cost of 65 billion pounds ($99 billion).  Johnson’s plan to raze Europe’s busiest airport and replace
it with 100,000 homes comes almost two decades after authorities
in Denver shut the city’s Stapleton terminal in a move that
delivered a boost in flight capacity plus a popular new suburb.
His proposal is one of a number submitted last week to a state-appointed commission on the U.K.’s airport capacity shortage.  Once the fifth-largest hub in the U.S., Stapleton’s landing
strip and buildings have been transformed into a community of
15,000 people with nine schools and Denver’s third-largest park.
Fifteen miles to the northeast, the new Denver International
airport lured 53 million passengers last year, 17 million more
than the capacity of Stapleton before it closed in 1995.  “We needed to start fresh,” said Tom Gleason, a former
spokesman for Federico Pena, the Denver mayor who the initiated
the project. “Stapleton did not have the ability to expand and
add the capacity it would need to be of use in the long-term.”  Estuary Switch  Replacing  Europe ’s top hub with a new borough of 250,000
people would help ease a national housing shortage and cost the
government about 15 billion pounds, while generating
“considerable revenue” via land disposals, Johnson said July 15.  The Conservative politician opposes the expansion of
Heathrow -- operating close to the capacity of its two runways
after attracting almost 70 million people last year -- as too
noisy for London’s inhabitants, with the bulk of planes coming
in to land directly over the city in prevailing westerly winds.  Johnson’s plan envisages construction of a new four-runway
hub at one of two sites in the Thames estuary or at the existing
Stansted airport north of the capital, with the bill running to
about 50 billion pounds including transport links.  Heathrow Airport  Ltd., the current hub’s owner, said July
17 it makes no sense to move to a new site and presented three
options for boosting capacity to at least 702,000 flights a year
from 480,000 via construction of a single runway and facilities
costing a maximum 18 billion pounds and ready as early as 2025.  Hemmed In  “Heathrow is the cheapest and quickest way to deliver the
hub capacity we need,” Development Director John Holland-Kaye
said in an interview. “Far better to spend 15 billion pounds
allowing growth in jobs and the economy there than to invest
that in turning it into a housing estate.”  Surrounded by fields when it opened as  London  Airport in
1946, Heathrow was long ago enveloped by urban sprawl, and its
expansion plans each involve demolition of at least 1,000 homes,
though the company reckons noise could be cut by adding a runway
to the west so planes fly higher over the most populated areas.  In Denver, Stapleton airport, which dated to 1929, was
similarly hemmed in by the expanding city, prompting Pena, mayor
between 1983 and 1991, to push through plans for a replacement.  The decision meant finding a buyer capable of developing
the $79.4 million site, demolishing 4.2 million square feet of
buildings and removing the six million tons of concrete that
made up the airport’s runways, taxiways and roads.  ‘Pent Up’  While the replacement hub, originally scheduled for 1993,
was plagued by delays to an automated baggage system that caused
costs to double to more than $4 billion, at Stapleton it was a
case of build it and they will come, according to Gleason, now a
spokesman for the site’s developer  Forest City Enterprises Inc. (FCE/A)   “Convincing people to live on a former airport property
was not an issue because there was pent up demand,” he said in
a telephone interview. “The day the last airplane took off,
property values around Stapleton took off as well.”  While London’s own housing shortage would suggest that new
homes at Heathrow might be similarly popular, one of  Asia ’s
highest-profile airport projects indicates that demand for land
isn’t always sufficient to deliver a successful regeneration.  The site of  Hong Kong ’s former Kai Tak airport, less than 7
miles from the world’s costliest office market, lies deserted 15
years after the hub was closed and flights shifted to the island
of Chek Lap Kok, with only the runway developed.  After a decade of public discussion and consultation which
saw the scale of plans reined in, the government came up with an
outline proposal in 2007 for more than 33,000 housing units, 20
million square feet of office, retail and hotel space, plus a
cruise terminal and a stadium.  Empty  So far, only the ship dock has opened for business, and
most of the site is still empty.  In London,  Howard Davies , who is leading the airport
commission, has said he’ll examine all options for securing
additional runway capacity, including the upgrading of Heathrow.  Prime Minister  David Cameron , whose  Conservative party  is
in coalition with the anti-Heathrow Liberal Democrats and who
needs seats below flight paths to stay in power, has said that
no decision will be reached until after a 2015 general election.  Residents of two west London boroughs voted almost 3 to 1
in May against building a third runway, and Conservative
lawmaker Zac Goldsmith has threatened to quit if growth at
Heathrow is approved, forcing a special by-election vote.  Johnson also says he’d be prepared to protest against extra
flights, and that his vision of a new hub and what he has dubbed
a “Royal Borough of Heathrow” to replace the old airport will
win public approval if politicians are prepared to back it.  “There’s no substitute for having strong support at the
grass roots level,” Denver’s Gleason said. “There are going to
be ups and down, and times when elected officials may waver, but
it is very important for the community to recognize that it is
in their best interest that development stay on track.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  