-- Most Read on Bloomberg: All-Nighters, Bernanke, Sweaty Brokers
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-07-21T06:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/most-read-on-bloomberg-all-nighters-bernanke-sweaty-brokers.html
The following list comprises the
most-read  Bloomberg News  reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. Red Bull-Fueled 4 A.M. All-Nighters Put Hedge Fund Atop
Rivals  July 17 (Bloomberg) -- As Friday night turns to Saturday
morning in  Singapore , Adam Levinson regularly stays up drinking
 Red Bull  until 4 a.m., waiting for U.S. jobs data and the close
of the trading week halfway around the world in  New York .  2. Bernanke Says Pace of QE to Hinge on Performance of Economy  July 17 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said the central bank’s asset purchases “are by no
means on a preset course” as he sought to tamp down an increase
in borrowing costs that threatens to slow the economic
expansion.  3. Sweaty Brokers Abandon Booze to Treat Traders to $34 Spin
Class  July 18 (Bloomberg) -- Wall Street’s salesmen and
dealmakers, whose expense accounts help fill downtown chophouses
and box seats at ballparks, are now treating clients to a
different kind of entertainment: high-end workouts.  4. Detroit Emptied on Path From Industrial Giant to Bankruptcy  July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Detroit, the cradle of the
automobile assembly line and a symbol of industrial might, filed
the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy after decades of decline
left it too poor to pay billions of dollars owed bondholders,
retired cops and current city workers.  5. Murray Discarded Perry Kit on Way to Being $75 Million Man  July 18 (Bloomberg) --  Andy Murray  shed his Fred Perry
clothes in 2009. It took him another four years to escape the
77-year shadow cast by the last male British Wimbledon champion.  6. Goldman Sachs Beats Estimates on Underwriting, Debt Gains  July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
earnings doubled, beating analysts’ estimates on a surge in
underwriting revenue and gains from the firm’s own investments.  7. School Lunch Kills at Least 22 Children in Eastern India  July 17 (Bloomberg) -- At least 22 Indian children died and
25 others are being treated in the hospital after eating a
contaminated lunch at a state-run primary school in the eastern
state of Bihar, prompting violent protests.  8. Coffey Haunts GLG’s Investors as Sibanthracite Pulls IPO  July 15 (Bloomberg) -- GLG Partners Inc.’s attempt to
mitigate losses from former hedge-fund manager Greg Coffey’s bet
on a Siberian coal mining company was dealt a blow after
Sibanthracite Plc pulled its initial public offering.  9. Snowden Bows to Putin’s Demand in Asylum Quest, Lawyer Says  July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Fugitive U.S. ex-security contractor
Edward Snowden has agreed to Russia’s demand that he stop anti-American activity and asked for temporary asylum, a Russian
lawyer advising him said.  10. Citigroup Profit Rise Beats Estimates as Stock Trading Gains  July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, posted a 42 percent increase in second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as stock-trading
revenue surged and losses on unwanted assets declined.  COLUMNS  1. Guy Walks Into Citigroup Branch, Loses $40,000: Jonathan Weil  July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Looking at the way that U.S.
Senators  Elizabeth Warren  and  John McCain  are pitching their
proposal for a 21st-century version of the  Glass-Steagall Act , I
can’t help but wonder if they’re making a mistake.  2. The NFL Must Try to Save ’Johnny Football’: Stephen L. Carter  July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Even if you’re not a football fan,
you’re probably aware of the sudden image problem confronting
the most popular sport in the U.S. Arrests of National Football
League players are up a startling 75 percent this off-season.
Most notably,  Aaron Hernandez  of the  New England Patriots  faces
charges of murder, while Ausar Walcott of the  Cleveland Browns 
faces charges of attempted murder.  3. Why American Students Don’t Major in Science: Cass R.
Sunstein  July 18 (Bloomberg) -- In recent years, a lot of people
have been concerned about the relatively low numbers of science
majors among American college students. The percentage of
science and engineering graduates in the U.S. has been far below
that in China and Japan. On various math and science tests, the
performance of U.S. students has fallen below that of students
in  South Korea , Singapore, Japan, England, Finland, Israel,
Australia and Russia.  4. Federal Trial Against Zimmerman Is a Bad Idea:  Noah Feldman   July 15 (Bloomberg) -- When in 1992 a California jury
acquitted the four officers who beat Rodney King, the result was
a race riot of a kind not seen since the late 1960s -- followed
by a federal civil-rights prosecution that convicted two of the
officers. The acquittal of George Zimmerman for killing Trayvon
Martin hasn’t produced rioting, but it has spawned a growing
demand, led by the National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People, for a federal trial to re-charge Zimmerman with
violating Martin’s civil rights. The  Justice Department  said it
will now “evaluate the evidence.”  5. Masters of Universe Don’t Need Fed Hand-Holding: Caroline
Baum  July 18 (Bloomberg) -- The last two months have been a
nightmare for the  Federal Reserve , which has been doing
everything in its power to depress long-term  interest rates . The
yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose more than a full
percentage point from early May to early July amid talk of the
Fed first cutting its asset purchases, and then ending them by
mid-2014, assuming the economy lives up to its relatively upbeat
forecast.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Fed Chairman Bernanke’s Testimony on Fed Policy, Economy  July 17 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S
Bernanke testifies about the central bank’s policies and the
 U.S. economy .  2. Bernanke Testifies on Economy, Policy to Senate Panel  July 18 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke delivers his semi-annual report on the U.S. economy and
the central bank’s monetary policy before the Senate Banking
Committee in Washington.  3. Jim Chanos Dodges Bat in Stands at MLB All-Star Game  July 17 (Bloomberg) --  Jim Chanos , founder of Kynikos
Associates Ltd., dodged a bat that flew into the stands during
 Major League Baseball ’s All-Star Game at Citi Field in New York
last night.  4. Volkswagen Plots Phaeton Return to Reignite U.S. Sales  July 17 (Bloomberg) -- The Volkswagen Phaeton luxury sedan
is seen in a promotional video from Volkswagen AG.  5. Protests Erupt in India as Free Lunch Kills 20 Children  July 17 (Bloomberg) -- As many as 20 Indian children died
and 27 others are being treated in hospitals after eating a free
lunch at a state-run primary school in the eastern state of
Bihar, prompting violent protests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in New York at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  