-- Toyota Affiliate Targets Hyundai Sales in Supply Shift
-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-07-21T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/toyota-affiliate-targets-hyundai-sales-in-supply-shift.html
On July 1, Nobuaki Katoh became an
honorary citizen of South Korea. That’s remarkable not only
because he hails from regional rival Japan, but also because he
runs the top component supplier for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the
biggest competitor of Korean champion  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)   Katoh, president of  Denso Corp. (6902) , partly owned by Toyota,
got the citizenship certificate at a groundbreaking ceremony for
his company’s new Korean factory. The plant, which will supply
Hyundai and its sister enterprises, illustrates a shift in the
auto parts industry, from suppliers linked closely to one car
manufacturer to a handful of global giants that build components
for multiple automakers.  “Suppliers are diversifying because they want to reduce
the risks that come with being too dependent on one automaker,
and to strengthen their price negotiating power,” said Lee Sang Hyun, an analyst at  NH Investment & Securities Co. (016420)   Denso’s South Korean expansion comes as  Johnson Controls
Inc. (JCI) ,  Delphi Automotive Plc (DLPH)  and  Robert Bosch GmbH , Denso’s
largest global rivals, build up their presence in Japan with
plans to win Toyota business.  The change is being driven by automakers themselves.
Toyota, for instance, is seeking new suppliers to help it winnow
parts variety globally and reduce the risk of parts shortages
after natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods. And
Hyundai this year diversified its supplier base when it
contracted with Denso to make heaters for its Sonata sedan in
the U.S.  Windshield Projectors  The reshuffle is driving expansion at parts makers across
 Asia  and shaking up the supply chains of auto producers. Japan
imported more auto parts in June than in any month since October
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Johnson Controls, the world’s largest producer of car seats
and batteries, is expanding in Japan. Germany’s Bosch has said
it expects to benefit as Toyota cuts its reliance on Japanese
suppliers in favor of larger global companies. And French
component maker Faurecia SA is expanding in  China  and the U.S.
as its controlling shareholder,  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , suffers and
the European market continues to contract.  Denso, which makes components ranging from seats to
electronic controls to air conditioners, intends to plow 400
billion won ($350 million) into South Korea by 2020. The company
supplies Korean clients with smart keys that can automatically
unlock doors at a distance and devices that project information
on the windshield. Denso declined to provide an executive for
comment.  Sonata Heaters  Hyundai Mobis Co. (012330) , Korea’s biggest partsmaker and an
affiliate of Hyundai Motor, is countering Denso’s move by
boosting its own overseas expansion. The company aims to become
the world’s fifth largest auto-parts maker by 2020, up from No.
8 today, by winning contracts from carmakers in the U.S., Europe
and Japan.  Hyundai supplier  Halla Visteon Climate Control Corp. (018880)  is
also seeking to broaden its customer base. The partsmaker, which
counts on Hyundai and its affiliates for half of revenue, lost
out to Denso for making heaters for Hyundai’s Sonata sedan in
the U.S. Now, the company says it has clinched enough non-Hyundai orders to keep sales rising at least 7 percent annually
for the next three years.  “We have a very good customer mix,” said Halla Chief
Executive Officer Park Yong Hwan. “The market had been
concerned about our high dependency on Hyundai and we felt we
needed to secure more customers and expand in other markets.”  Delphi, the former parts unit of General Motors Co., says
changes in the way Toyota and Honda Motor Co. buy parts is
opening the way for the company to build market share in  Japan .  Chaebol Busting  “We’ve recently won a fair amount of business with Toyota
and Honda where we actually are taking share,” Kevin Clark,
Delphi chief financial officer, said at a Barclays Plc
conference earlier this year. He didn’t elaborate on the
contracts.  The tradition of carmakers owning large stakes in their
suppliers has come under scrutiny in South Korea, where the
government is trying to weaken the chaebol, or family-run
conglomerates, while encouraging Japanese companies to do more
business in the country.  “Japanese partsmakers are looking for room to grow and
expand their customer lineup,” said Shin Chung Kwan, an analyst
at KB Investment & Securities Co.  Denso’s expansion into South Korea comes as the partsmaker
looks to cut its earthquake risk, said Shin. The magnitude-9
temblor that rocked northeastern Japan in March 2011 disrupted
production and led to component shortages that have prompted
automakers to diversify sourcing geographically.  Faltering Alliances  Denso is also expanding production in  North America ,
 Cambodia  and  Poland  and has said that it will pay about $1.9
million for 51 percent of Pricol Components Ltd., an Indian
maker of instrument clusters for cars.  While old alliances break down, the new ones will probably
increase the market power of the biggest partsmakers, said
Masahiro Akita, an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG in  Tokyo .  The changes in the component business will “increase the
volume of parts purchased from a single supplier worldwide,” he
said. “This trend is just getting started.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  