-- PBOC’s Rate Rules No Company Salve to Barclays: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-07-21T16:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/pboc-s-rate-rules-no-company-salve-to-barclays-china-overnight.html
China ’s move to loosen interest-rate
controls is insufficient to cut corporate borrowing costs in
coming months as the economy expands at the slowest pace since
1990, according to Barclays Plc and UBS AG.  The People’s Bank of China scrapped  the floor  on the rates
banks can charge customers on July 19 while keeping a cap on
 deposit rates . Yuan forwards rose and Chinese stocks trading in
the U.S. posted the first back-to-back weekly gain since May as
the change signaled policy makers’ commitment to market reforms.  While the move represents a step toward letting the market
set  interest rates , the initial impact will be limited because
banks have little incentive to lower borrowing costs below the
current 6 percent benchmark, Barclays’s analysts wrote in a
report July 19.  Total lending  fell to a 14-month low last month
amid a cash squeeze that led to higher interbank funding costs.  “You cannot say this is credit loosening when the total
financing is lower,”  Bhanu Baweja , the global head of emerging-market fixed income and foreign exchange at UBS, said by phone
from London July 19. “It’s not the price of the money that
matters in China, it’s the quantity that matters.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards strengthened
0.08 percent against the dollar on July 19, extending the
advance last week to 0.15 percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity
Index of the Chinese stocks in the U.S. added less than 0.1
percent for a weekly gain of 2.8 percent to close at 89.95, the
highest since June 7.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares closed 1.5
percent lower before the PBOC announcement, extending the
decline last week to 2.3 percent.  Economic Agenda  Premier  Li Keqiang , who took office in March, is
accelerating financial reforms to revive the economy after gross
domestic product growth slowed to 7.5 percent in the second
quarter. Policy makers raised the limit for foreign investment
in China’s capital markets this month and are planning to set up
a pilot free-trade zone in  Shanghai .  Before last week’s move, China regulated how much banks can
pay to depositors and how much they could charge borrowers,
ensuring a  profit margin  for lenders. Banks are allowed to offer
up to 10 percent above the official deposit rate, currently at 3
percent, and before the limits were removed could issue loans at
as much as 30 percent less than the benchmark 6 percent.  The practice led to lending to unprofitable projects and
the growth of unregulated banking that policy makers say
increases risks in the financial system. The  World Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  have said an overhaul of interest
rates should be a priority in financial reform.  Deposit Rates  The PBOC said July 19 that the removal of the lending floor
will lower companies’ funding costs and boost flexibility for
financial institutions. The conditions aren’t ripe yet for
freeing up deposit rates, the more important and “most risky”
part of interest-rate liberalization, the PBOC said, adding that
the nation lacks a deposit insurance system.  Barclays’s analysts said the removal of the lending rate
floor “is more signal than real” when it comes to borrowing
costs because most lenders didn’t use the 30 percent discount
allowed.  As of March, only 11 percent of loans were priced below the
lending benchmark, according to central bank data. The average
lending rate was 6.65 percent, or 0.65 percentage points above
the official benchmark, according to Barclays’s calculations.  “We do not expect it to lead to a significant or immediate
change of banks’ lending practices and lending rates,” Barclays
economist  Jian Chang  wrote in the note. “The lending floor was
not binding and banks still have significant pricing power.”  Lending Volume  Louis Kuijs , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s chief China
economist in  Hong Kong , said the new policy won’t have “a major
immediate impact” on lending volume as slowing growth reduces
loan demand.  “Corporate borrowing is affected a lot by subdued demand
in a context of weak profits and spare capacity in many
sectors,” Kuijs, a former World Bank economist, wrote in a
report.  The interest rate overhaul came one month after the PBOC
acted to curb credit expansion. Policy makers refrained from
adding cash to the banking system, causing  interbank borrowing
costs  to surge.  That helped reduce  aggregate financing , the broadest
measure of credit, to 1.04 trillion  yuan  ($169 billion) in June,
the lowest since April 2012. Bank loans accounted for 83 percent
of the total lending, up from 52 percent a year earlier,
suggesting that non-traditional financing through the shadow
banking system has been squeezed.  Shadow Banking  The interest rate reform will help curb unregulated banking
by giving more freedom to commercial lenders to decide borrowing
costs, according to Kuijs.  “Interest rate liberalization should be helpful in, over
time, improving the level playing field between core bank
activity and shadow banking,” Kuijs wrote.  John-Paul Smith, an emerging market strategist at Deutsche
Bank AG, who anticipated the selloff of equities in China and
developing nations this year, said the reform won’t change his
bearish view on Chinese assets. Interest-rate distortion has
been so entrenched that it will take a long time to clean up, he
said in a phone interview on July 19.  “I don’t think this is a dramatic act that will change
anything,” said Smith. “The big picture is that sentiment
toward China is deteriorating and deteriorating fast.”  The  iShares China Large-Cap ETF , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 0.3 percent on July 19
to $33.73, extending its gain last week to 1.6 percent.  Qihoo, Sohu  Renren Inc. (RENN)  slumped the most in four weeks in  New York 
after cutting sales estimates.  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME)  climbed to a
15-month high.  Qihoo 360 Technology Co., (QIHU)  a Beijing-based  software
developer , said it is in initial talks to buy  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) ’s
Sogou unit to help it compete with Baidu Inc. for Internet
searches in China.  Qihoo, owner of the most-used web browser and the second-biggest search engine, rose 1.8 percent to a record $58.34 on
July 19, extending its weekly advance to 10 percent, the most in
two months. Sohu, the third-biggest web portal, added 5.5
percent last week to $68.73, the strongest level since October
2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  