-- Portugal’s Coelho Wins Backing From President to Complete Term
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-07-22T10:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/portuguese-president-says-coelho-s-government-to-stay-in-office.html
Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho ’s government won the support of the head of state
to stay in office until its term ends in 2015 as President
Anibal  Cavaco Silva  ruled out early elections that would disrupt
completion of a bailout plan.  “The government has the support of an unequivocal majority
in parliament,” Cavaco Silva, who has the power to dissolve
parliament, said in a speech in Lisbon last night. Portugal’s
bonds rose, extending a three-day rally that has wiped more than
80 basis points from 10-year borrowing costs.  Coelho won the endorsement only after the ruling coalition
parties and the opposition Socialists failed to reach a
consensus pact that Cavaco Silva said would have been “the
ideal solution.” The prime minister said on July 18 that
uncertainty over a vote could harm the country’s efforts to
regain access to the  bond market .  Portugal has 11 months left to exit its European Union-led
bailout plan. Coelho, 48, is backed by his  Social Democratic
Party  and the smaller conservative CDS party, which together
have a majority of seats in parliament.  “The most important source of political and implementation
risk -- new elections -- has been avoided in the near term,”
Silvia Ardagna, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in
a note to clients.  Bond Rally  The yield on Portugal’s 10-year bonds tumbled 40 basis
points to 6.4 percent at 10:39 a.m. London time. Borrowing costs
have returned to their level of July 1, the day before a rift in
the coalition emerged. The yield breached a seven-month high of
more than 8 percent on July 3 compared with the 3.2 percent the
country pays on its bailout loans.  The nation’s debt agency said on July 12 that it plans to
resume “regular issuance” of bonds “only if market conditions
are conducive.” Financing needs for 2013 are “fully covered,”
and in the second quarter the debt agency started to “pre-fund” for borrowing needs in 2014, IGCP said.  The president shifted his stance on an early ballot after
last week saying that if a consensus pact was reached, a vote
could take place next year once the country emerged from its aid
program. The previous six coalitions that have governed  Portugal 
since its return to democracy in 1974 have failed to survive a
full term.  The two governing parties settled a split over budget
policy on July 6, with Coelho offering CDS leader and Foreign
Minister Paulo Portas the post of vice premier and control over
economic policy. While ruling out an immediate election, the
president on July 10 didn’t endorse their deal, calling for a
broader accord also involving the Socialists.  No Salvation Pact  The president asked the three parties to reach a “national
salvation” agreement that would help Portugal complete its aid
program through June 2014, according to his July 10 speech. He
also urged them to ensure debt levels will be sustainable for a
new government after the bailout.  The parties failed to agree on measures to complete the
bailout plan after six days of talks, Socialist Party leader
Antonio Jose Seguro said on July 19. The Socialists oppose the
coalition government’s planned 4.7 billion euros ($6.2 billion)
of spending cuts. They led the Social Democrats by 12 percentage
points in a poll published on July 12, and have called for early
elections.  The government will now ask parliament to approve a
confidence motion, said Cavaco Silva, 74, who is a former prime
minister and Social Democratic Party leader. Parliament on July
18 rejected a censure motion against the government presented by
the Greens.  The eighth review of Portugal’s progress on meeting the
terms of the 78 billion-euro aid program was pushed back to the
end of August or the start of September because of the political
situation, the  Finance Ministry  said on July 11. The review had
been due to start on July 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  