-- Qihoo 360 Counters Baidu Mobile-App Deal With Sohu Search Talks
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-07-21T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/qihoo-360-counters-baidu-mobile-app-deal-with-sohu-search-talks.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) ’s grip on the Internet in
 China , where it handles more than 80 percent of online queries,
is forcing the nation’s second- and third-biggest search engines
to consider a merger.  Qihoo 360 Technology Co (QIHU)  is in initial talks to buy  Sohu.com
Inc (SOHU) ’s Sogou unit, a deal that would probably be financed with
cash and stock, Qihoo Chief Financial Officer Alex Xu said by
phone on July 19. He declined to value Sogou, which the market
estimates is worth $1 billion to $1.4 billion, according to Lucy Zhang, a Beijing-based analyst at Internet consulting group
iResearch.  Baidu strengthened its dominance last week with a $1.9
billion deal to buy app store 91 Wireless, the most expensive
acquisition announced by a China-based technology company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China had 591 million
web users at the end of June, a greater number than the total
population of any other country except  India , according to the
 China Internet Network Information Center .  “With Sogou’s listing prospects getting dimmer, it makes
sense for it to join forces with Qihoo to compete with Baidu,”
Zhang said. “The two combined would have much better control of
mobile Internet entry points.”  Qihoo’s American depositary receipts fell 4.5 percent to
$52.81 on July 16, following Baidu’s acquisition of 91 Wireless.  Qihoo, which started operating a search engine service in
August last year, charges advertising fees “at a significant
discount to Baidu,” Alicia Yap, an analyst at Barclays Plc in
Hong Kong, said in a June research report.  ‘Strategic Sense’  Sogou accounted for 5.5 percent of search-engine queries in
China in the March quarter, the third-largest share. Baidu had
82 percent and Qihoo 360 was in second place with 9 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It makes strategic sense for Qihoo to pursue this deal,”
said  Elinor Leung , head of Asia telecommunications and Internet
research at CLSA Ltd. in Hong Kong. “If they can acquire it,
they will exceed 20 percent market share for search. They can
scale with it.”  Joining forces could also help the companies compete
against Baidu on the mobile Internet, as more users spend time
on smartphones and tablet devices.  The number of people who accessed the Internet via mobile
devices rose 10 percent to 464 million in China by the end of
June from the end of December, according to the China Internet
Network Information Center.  91 Wireless  Baidu acquired app store 91 Wireless to maintain better
control of access points and gain more users, Echo He, an
analyst at Maxim Group LLC in  New York , said in a July report.
It’s uncertain whether the acquisition will sustainably help
Baidu attract more users, she said.  There’s no consensus on which app store holds the largest
market share in China. Qihoo estimates it has about 30 percent
of China’s mobile app store market share, Barclays’s Yap said in
her report. NetDragon said 91 Wireless, the company it’s selling
to Baidu, is the largest third-party distributor by active
users, citing iResearch data.  Qihoo 360 said in a July 19 statement no agreement has yet
been reached with respect to a significant potential investment
or strategic alliance.  Sohu is exploring options for Sogou, including seeking
minority investors or pursuing a combination, it said in a July
19 press release. It said it hasn’t yet picked a partner or
reached a deal.  Sohu.com  rose  0.9 percent to $68.73 at the close in New
York on July 19 and has gained 45 percent this year. Qihoo  rose 
1.8 percent to $58.34, extending its advance in 2013 to 96
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  