-- Earthquake Sends Kiwis Screaming From Wellington Buildings
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-07-22T08:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/quake-sends-new-zealanders-screaming-from-wellington-buildings.html
New Zealanders ran screaming from
buildings in Wellington yesterday as a magnitude 6.5 earthquake
blew out windows and caused part of the city’s port to slide
into the sea.  The earthquake struck at 5:09 p.m. local time and was
centered offshore, 57 kilometers (35 miles) south-southwest of
the capital city, at a depth of 14 kilometers, according to the
 U.S. Geological Survey . It was New Zealand’s biggest quake since
a magnitude 6.3 killed 185 people in the South Island city of
Christchurch two years ago, and the strongest to hit the central
region of the country since 1942, GNS Science seismologist John
Ristau said.  There is an 8 percent chance of another magnitude 6 event
or larger in the next 24 hours, and 20 percent over the next
seven days, Ristau said in a telephone interview. “A large
earthquake can increase stress or decrease stress on neighboring
faults, that’s what we’re looking closely at,” he said.  The powerful shake, which lasted at least 20 seconds, threw
goods from store shelves and caused people to run from buildings
such as movie theaters, eyewitnesses said. Four people were
hospitalized with minor injuries, state broadcaster TVNZ
reported. There were no reports of fatalities.  Downtown  Wellington  was largely deserted today as
aftershocks continued to shake the city. Civil Defense advised
people to stay at home and many companies and government
departments told staff not to come to work. Parts of the CBD
remain cordoned off as smashed glass and debris is removed from
sidewalks and engineers assess the safety of high-rise office
towers.  Quake ‘Swarm’  The earthquake was the latest in a so-called “swarm” of
tremors centered in the Cook Strait that separates New Zealand’s
North and South Islands. The nation of 4.4 million people sits
on the Pacific Ring of Fire, a belt of volcanic and quake
activity that circles the Pacific Ocean.  Some 35 Wellington buildings have so far been found to have
sustained damage, Mayor Celia Wade-Brown told a news conference
this afternoon. The central business district will re-open for
business tomorrow, she said.  The city came through the big quake “very well” with
largely superficial damage, Prime Minister John Key said.
Initial indications suggest it is “not a major financial
event,” he said earlier today.  Stocks, Dollar  There was no disruption to the New Zealand stock exchange,
though some of its 100 Wellington staff worked from home,
spokeswoman Kate McLaughlin said. The  NZX50 Index (NZSE50FG)  closed 0.35
percent higher at 4,554. The New Zealand dollar rose 0.1 percent
to 79.27 U.S. cents at 7:30 p.m. local time.  Wellington port was closed this morning after a stretch of
reclaimed land about 200 meters long and as much as 10 meters
wide slid into the sea, taking a shipping container with it. The
port re-opened this afternoon and was fully operational, Steve
Harris, port operations general manager, said by phone.  Mitsui O.S.K. Line Ltd., operator of the world’s largest
merchant fleet, said it wasn’t affected by the quake and
expected its next container service to call at Wellington port
as scheduled on July 26.  Major services such as water, sewerage, power and gas are
running smoothly, though train services were halted to check
tracks, Deputy Mayor Ian McKinnon told Radio New Zealand.  Three major earthquakes have rattled Wellington within
three days. A magnitude 5.7 event shook office towers and sent
workers diving under desks on July 19, while a 5.8 magnitude
tremor woke people shortly after 7 a.m. yesterday.  More than 100 aftershocks have been recorded since the
magnitude 6.5 quake, some as strong as magnitude 5.2, according
to  GNS Science ’s Geonet website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  