-- Rostelecom a Buy to UralSib on Government Sale: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-07-22T03:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/rostelecom-a-buy-to-uralsib-on-government-sale-russia-overnight.html
OAO  Rostelecom (ROSYY) , the best performing
Russian stock this month, is poised for further gains as the
phone company takes steps to allow the government to sell its
stake, according to UralSib Financial Corp.  “Rostelecom has revived investors’ interest in its
shares,” said Konstantin Belov, an analyst in Moscow at
UralSib, which is ranked first among 23 banks and researchers
that cover the company after its recommendations delivered the
best relative returns over the past year based on the
performance of all securities covered. “Chances are the
government will reduce its stake in Rostelecom as soon as next
year and that helps the market optimism.”  Belov reiterated a buy rating last week and forecast stock
in the country’s largest fixed-line operator will gain 43
percent over the next year after shareholders voted June 26 to
merge Rostelecom with its parent, OAO Svyazinvest, a measure the
government said was needed to simplify its  ownership structure 
and facilitate a sale of its controlling stake. A privatization
would allow Rostelecom to be better managed as competition among
phone carriers intensifies, Belov said.  American depositary receipts of Rostelecom rose 7.9 percent
last week in  New York  to $21.51, capping a 36 percent surge in
the past three weeks as the stock recovered from the cheapest
level versus peers this year. The ADRs closed at a 0.5 percent
premium to the shares in Moscow. The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity
Index rose 0.6 percent to 92.59 on July 19 for a 2.6 percent
weekly advance. RTS  futures (VEA)  rose 0.1 percent in U.S. hours.  ‘Love Buybacks’  The stock has also been driven higher in recent weeks as
Rostelecom started buying back shares from investors who didn’t
vote or voted against its merger with Svyazinvest, said
Alexander Vengranovich, an analyst at Otkritie Financial Corp.
The company set a buyout price of 136.05 rubles ($4.20) each, it
said in a March 27 statement.  “Investors love buybacks,” Vengranovich said by phone
from Moscow on July 16. “The market favors the new, simpler
structure that the merger with Svyazinvest brings.”  Investors expect the company, which approved Sergey Kalugin
as chief executive officer in March and elected a new board of
directors last month, will approve a new business strategy in
August, Otkritie’s Vengranovich said.  Russia  may sell a controlling stake in Rostelecom for at
least $5 billion as early as this year, First Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said in an April 26 interview in Moscow.
UralSib’s Belov said the sale will probably be scheduled for
next year at the earliest.  ETF Advances  Futures on Russia’s dollar-denominated RTS Index rose to
137,760. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected
swings in the  stock futures , increased 0.7 percent to 24.24.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX)  gained 2.8 percent last week
to $27.17, rising for a fourth week in the longest stretch of
advances since February 2012.  Rostelecom trades at 13 percent discount to peers on the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Telecom Service Index based on the price
relative to estimated earnings, the narrowest gap since February
2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The discount narrowed
from 37 percent on June 28.  Ruble futures showed the currency weakening 0.5 percent  to
30.66 per dollar in U.S. hours July 19. The ruble gained 0.8
percent last week to 32.3685 per dollar and rose 0.6 percent to
36.8738 against the dollar-euro basket used by the central bank
to manage swings that erode exporter competitiveness.  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
dropped 1.4 percent to HK$2.86 in Hong Kong trading as of
10:59 a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  