-- Sabic Looks at U.S. Investments as Europe Slowdown Hurts Sales
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-07-21T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/sabic-second-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-as-sales-decline.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s biggest petrochemicals maker by market value, is
studying investment opportunities in the U.S. as the economic
slowdown in Europe and China hurt its second-quarter sales.  “It is very important that Sabic is not left out from
investments in the U.S. as it is a huge market in terms of the
presence of shale gas and also proximity to other markets,”
Chief Executive Officer Mohamed Al-Mady told reporters in  Riyadh 
yesterday. “We are studying opportunities in the U.S. to expand
Sabic’s presence in the chemical and polymer businesses.”  Saudi Basic Industries, also known as Sabic, would be
joining companies including  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and Exxon Mobil
Corp. in seeking to take advantage of the U.S. shale boom that
has helped drive down natural-gas prices. Cheap gas is doubly
advantageous to chemical makers because it’s used as a raw
material and to power factories.  U.S. producers would be more competitive in commodity
chemical exports to Asia if wet shale costs remained below $6.5
per million British thermal units and Brent stayed above $100 a
barrel, said Digvijay Singh, a Dubai-based analyst at VTB
Capital. “Sabic is just trying to capture export market share
that way -- to try and become a lower-cost producer,” he said.  Sabic Americas, the company’s unit, provides chemicals and
fertilizer products to industries in the U.S.,  Canada ,  Mexico ,
Central America,  South America  and the Caribbean,  according  to
the company’s website. It also operates a research and
technology center in Houston,  Texas .  Sales Drop  Sabic’s plan for U.S. investments comes as the economic
slowdown in Europe and China ebbed demand from clients and
affected earnings at the company and its affiliates.  Second-quarter profit  at the Riyadh-based company climbed 14 percent,
missing analysts estimates. Sales declined to 45 billion riyals
from 46.5 billion riyals.  The euro-area economy is forecast to have stagnated in the
second quarter after a contraction in the first three months of
the year that extended its recession into a sixth quarter.
 China’s economy  grew 7.5 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, down from 7.7 percent in the first three months,
and is at risk of the weakest expansion in 23 years.  “Glycol production was the most affected by the economic
slowdown as it is the number one product we export to China and
 East Asia ,” Al-Mady said. He said China, where it has an
ethylene and polycarbonate venture with China Petroleum and
Chemical Corp., will continue to be Sabic’s biggest market.  Sabic shares  rose 1.4 percent to close at 93.50 riyals in
Riyadh. Fourteen analysts have a buy rating on the stock, while
three recommend holding it, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  