-- McDermott to Become Sole SAP CEO After Snabe Steps Down
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-07-22T17:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/sap-s-snabe-to-step-down-in-2014-leaving-mcdermott-as-sole-ceo.html
SAP AG (SAP)  will end its dual chief
executive officer structure next year, with Bill McDermott
becoming sole leader as the largest maker of business-management
software battles intensifying competition amid a shift in demand
to Internet-based applications.  Co-CEO Jim Hagemann Snabe, 47, will join the supervisory
board after a shareholder vote in May 2014, leaving the 51-year-old American McDermott at the helm, Walldorf, Germany-based SAP
said after a board meeting yesterday.  Snabe and McDermott took over in February 2010 from Leo Apotheker, who was removed after failing to boost revenue amid
customer and employee discontent. Over 3 1/2 years, the co-CEOs
spent more than $14 billion on acquisitions to add mobile and
cloud-computing technologies and accelerated a push in SAP’s
homegrown database product, boosting the stock about 70 percent
and giving it a brief run as  Germany ’s most valuable company.  “After more than 20 years with SAP, I have decided that it
is time for me to begin the next phase of my career, closer to
my family,” Danish-born Snabe said in a statement. “Bill is
probably the best CEO in the industry. Period. It makes me proud
to see him take the company to the next level, which I am sure
he can,” he said today on a call with journalists.  The distribution of Snabe’s responsibilities will be
discussed in the coming months, said Daniel Reinhardt, a company
spokesman.  Shares Slip  The shares fell 0.9 percent to 55.25 euros in  Frankfurt ,
taking their losses this year to 9 percent. Germany’s DAX Index
has gained about 9 percent in the same period.  SAP and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  have for years dominated the market
for software used by companies to manage tasks ranging from
payroll to customer billing. A recent shift from fixed software
installations on company premises to applications that can be
rented online and run on mobile devices has given rise to rivals
and put pressure on SAP’s legacy software business.  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , a cloud specialist, last year
displaced SAP as the top vendor of software to manage customer
relationships, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  Last week, SAP cited a slowdown in Asian demand for a
second consecutive quarter as it missed analysts’ estimates for
license sales, a key indicator of future income.  SAP announced the leadership plan after the supervisory
board meeting at Snabe’s request, according to Reinhardt, the
company spokesman. The change is subject to approval by at least
25 percent of shareholders. Co-founder Hasso Plattner, who
chairs the supervisory board, has a stake of about 10 percent as
SAP’s largest investor.  U.S. Base  “I can’t find another Jim and match him up with Bill,”
Plattner said on the call. “Co-CEO situations only work in
certain situations with certain people.”  The move will probably strengthen the U.S. as a base for
SAP’s management at the expense of the German headquarters, said
Heinz Steffen, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg,
Germany. McDermott is based in  Pennsylvania , while Vishal Sikka,
the board member responsible for technology and innovation, is
based in Palo Alto,  California .  “Snabe was a good counterweight to McDermott, who is a
pure marketing machine,” said Steffen. “Their leadership seems
to be a constant upheaval.”  Sikka’s Rise?  Ray Wang, CEO of Constellation Research Inc., said the
change may not necessarily mean an end to the dual-CEO system
and could presage the elevation of Sikka as SAP realizes that
innovation is happening faster outside Germany.  “We wouldn’t be surprised if Vishal is named to co-CEO in
six to nine months as he’s a good counterweight to Bill
McDermott’s sales and business acumen,” Wang wrote in an e-mail. “Snabe has done a great job refocusing the company to
verticals and industries. He’s also been seen as the diplomat
within SAP. However, there is a need for faster pace of
innovation and also a greater alignment with the needs of the
customer base.”  McDermott  joined  SAP in 2002 and has led operations in the
Americas and Asia before joining the executive board in 2008.
Previously he worked for Siebel Systems Inc., Gartner Inc. and
spent 17 years at  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  McDermott said on the call he will
spend more time in Germany and improve his German.  German Commitment  “I’m very committed to Germany, and I know a little about
its heritage and culture and the brilliant engineers we have in
Germany and the great workforce,” McDermott said, adding he
doesn’t “have to make it home every weekend.”  Sanjay Poonen, SAP’s head of mobile, will leave the company
at the end of this month. In May, SAP announced the departure of
cloud chief Lars Dalgaard and head of personnel Luisa Delgado.
At the same time, the company unified all development work under
Sikka.  In October last year, John Chen, the long-time CEO of SAP’s
Sybase mobile-software unit, stepped down.  Chief Financial Officer Werner Brandt, who has announced
he’ll step down next year, will be replaced by Luka Mucic, the
head of finances for Germany, Plattner said on the call.  SAP acquired Sybase for $5.8 billion in 2010. In 2012, it
added SuccessFactors Inc., a maker of Web-based personnel
management software for $3.4 billion and Ariba Inc., an online
marketplace for companies, for $4.3 billion.  Little Change  Last month SAP agreed to buy Zug, Switzerland-based Hybris
AG to expand in e-commerce software and benefit from increasing
consumption in markets such as  China .  Dealmaking has become important for SAP, whose license
sales  fell  last quarter for the first time since 2009.  SAP got its start in 1972, when five International Business
Machines Corp. employees -- including Plattner -- began
programming payroll and accounting software to replace
traditional punch cards for Imperial Chemical Industries Plc.
Plattner still wields great influence and is involved in all big
decisions as well as many smaller ones.  “It’s always easier when things are going smoothly,” said
Thomas Becker, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Commerzbank AG.
“The market is going to view it negatively, but I don’t believe
this will result in a massive strategy change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  