-- Steel Goal Fades as $12 Billion Projects Dumped: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-07-22T10:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/steel-goal-fades-as-12-billion-projects-dumped-corporate-india.html
ArcelorMittal (MT)  and Posco’s decisions
to scrap $12 billion of proposed steel projects in  India  and
delays in building plants by  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  and its peers will
probably cut the nation’s 2020 capacity target by a quarter.  India may add about 50 million metric tons in the next
eight years, half of an earlier plan, taking total capacity to
150 million tons, according to the average estimate of six
analysts, government officials and company executives in a
Bloomberg survey. Slowing demand, land acquisition delays,
rising funding costs and difficulties in getting iron ore mining
permits are diminishing the viability of the projects, said A.S. Firoz, the steel ministry’s chief economist.  The Indian rupee’s plunge to a record this year, which
lifted equipment and raw material import costs, has exacerbated
the nation’s decline as a favored steelmaking destination. Steel
is crucial to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s effort to boost
infrastructure investment and revive economic growth from 5
percent, the slowest in a decade.  “The actual work for easing the process of mining permits
and land acquisitions is far from desirable, making steel
investments a distant dream for both foreign and local
companies,” said Devendra Pant, chief economist at India
Ratings & Research, the local unit of  Fitch Ratings . “Delays in
implementing large-scale projects may spur imports of these
products, critical for infrastructure, eventually putting
enormous strain on our macro-economic balances.”  ArcelorMittal, Posco  ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker, ditched its
12 million-ton-a-year project in Odisha last week after waiting
more than seven years to get land and permits to mine for  iron
ore , a key raw material.  South Korea ’s Posco, which is close to
acquiring all the land for a planned $12 billion plant and port
in the eastern state, exited its project in the southern state
of Karnataka for similar reasons.  “India has certainly lost sheen,” said Prasad Baji, an
analyst at Edelweiss Financial Services in  Mumbai . “I don’t see
the investment cycle returning in the near future.”  Tata Steel, India’s biggest producer of the alloy,  fell  3
percent to 233.8 rupees at the close in Mumbai, extending its
drop this year to 45 percent.  Steel Authority of India Ltd. , the
second-biggest, lost 1.3 percent to 44.35 rupees, extending this
year’s decline to 51 percent. Smaller rival  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) 
dropped 1.3 percent to 564.2 rupees, taking its fall this year
to 30.5 percent.  “It looks very difficult we’ll be able to reach 200
million tons by 2020, given the ongoing issues with land
acquisition and other processes,” Ponnapalli Madhusudan,
finance director at Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd., a state-owned
unlisted steelmaker, said by phone from the southern city of
Visakhapatnam. “The timeline to achieve this target may be
extended.”  Tata Steel, Jindal  Tata Steel in 2005 announced plans to spend $10 billion for
a 12 million ton project in the eastern state of Jharkhand. It
expected to set up the first phase of 6 million tons within
three years to 4 1/2 years from the date of obtaining all
clearances. The Mumbai-based company is awaiting a resettlement
and rehabilitation policy from the state government for the
project, according to its website.  “Steel projects have been facing difficulties for the past
two years due to delays on various fronts, but there is hope
things will improve,” said Sushil Maroo, deputy managing
director at  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP) , controlled by billionaire
lawmaker Naveen Jindal. “The country has taken steps to bring
transparency to mine allocations and this will help improve
things.”  Jindal Steel has been awaiting mining permits for almost a
year for a  coal mine  in Odisha, where it’s building a steel mill
that will run on gas produced from thermal coal. The company has
completed all formalities needed for the permit, Maroo said in a
phone interview on July 19.  Bengal Plant  JSW Steel deferred the construction of a $3 billion steel
project in the eastern state of West Bengal, citing lack of
assured raw material supplies, Group Chief Financial Officer
Seshagiri Rao said in April. The Mumbai-based company got land
and necessary approvals last year for the 3 million-ton plant.  The company also scrapped expansion at its largest factory
in Karnataka that is running at less than capacity due to an
iron ore shortage.  Corporate and infrastructure investments in India started
slowing because of policy bottlenecks and a tighter monetary
policy aimed at curbing commodity prices, according to the
Economic Survey for the year ended March 31. Almost half of the
major infrastructure projects, including  power plants  and oil
refineries, were running behind schedule, said the survey, which
is a report on the government’s performance for the year.  “The policy paralysis is taking a big, big toll on the
economy,” said Giriraj Daga, an analyst at Nirmal Bang Equities
Pvt. in Mumbai. “It is killing the manufacturing sector and
soon we will see the ripple effects on services.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at   jrogers73@bloomberg.net  