-- U.S. Military Intelligence Warned No Quick Fall for Assad
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-07-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/u-s-military-intelligence-warned-no-quick-fall-for-assad.html
The U.S. military intelligence
agency warned the Obama administration early in the Syrian
uprising that dictator Bashar al-Assad would be able to hold
onto power for years even in the face of widespread opposition,
the deputy head of the Defense Intelligence Agency said.  The DIA predicted Assad would remain in power until at
least the start of 2013, a classified assessment more
pessimistic than the early public statements by administration
officials.  David Shedd, No. 2 in the Defense Intelligence Agency, said
yesterday that the Syrian civil war is now likely to continue
for years, whatever Assad’s fate. The country faces the prospect
of “unfathomable violence” and growing power there by Islamic
radicals, including those allied with al-Qaeda, he said.  “My concern is that it can go on for a long time, as in
many, many months to multiple years,” he said, speaking at the
Aspen Security Forum in Aspen,  Colorado . “And the civilian
casualties, the enormous flow of refugees and the dislocation
and so forth and the human suffering associated with it will
only increase in time.’‘  The United Nations estimates that more than 93,000 people
have died in Syria’s civil war, which began with peaceful
protests in March 2011. The fighting has sent hundreds of
thousands of refugees fleeing into neighboring countries such as
Lebanon and Jordan.  Speaking Up  Shedd said he was among intelligence officials who spoke up
to say that it was unlikely the Assad regime would collapse any
earlier than the start of 2013.  Administration officials didn’t share that kind of timeline
when speaking publicly about the inevitability of Assad’s
downfall. In February 2012, President  Barack Obama  skirted the
time element by saying that the fall of the regime was not a
matter of if, but of when.  Shedd yesterday didn’t publicly predict whether Assad would
remain in power or be forced out, perhaps fleeing to continue
the fight from an enclave held by loyalists.  “I think if Bashar Assad were to succeed, he will be a
more ruthless leader who will live with a legacy of tens of
thousands of his civilians killed under him,” Shedd said. “If
he loses, and let’s pretend goes to an enclave inside there, I
think there will be ongoing civil war for years to come.’‘  His comments reflect the kind of dire outlook being
presented to Obama, who has been reluctant to have the U.S.
drawn more deeply into the conflict. Shedd said that, absent
increased outside involvement to shift the course of events in
 Syria , the war will settle into a deadly stalemate.  Sectarian Conflict  Shedd described what has become an open-ended sectarian
conflict between Syrian Sunnis and Shiites, fueled by outside
players such as Iran, Lebanon’s Hezbollah militia and al-Qaeda.
Sunni Persian Gulf nations, the U.S., U.K. and France are
providing aid to the opposition.  Russia  supports the Syrian
government.  There are 1,200 opposition factions in Syria, which
highlights what has been the administration’s concern about
being able to sort out secular moderates from radical Islamists
for aid, Shedd said. The radicals, such as the al-Nusra Front,
are the most effective opposition fighters, he said.  “It’s very clear that over the last two years they have
grown in size, they’ve grown in capability and ruthlessly have
grown in effectiveness,” he said of the radical Sunni Islamist
elements of the opposition. “Their ability to take the fight to
the regime and Hezbollah in a very direct way has been, among
those opposition groups, the most effective one.”  In recent weeks, fighting has broken out between radical
and mainstream elements of the Sunni-dominated opposition as
they compete for power in a country increasingly splintered
among rival factions.  On the other side, Assad’s allies, Shiite  Iran  and
Hezbollah, appear to be fully committed to ensuring the survival
of his regime, Shedd said. Syria is a key ally for Iran and a
gateway for its shipments of arms to Lebanon-based Hezbollah,
which both the U.S. and Israel regard as a terrorist group.  “I do not believe that Iran feels it can lose that
territory,” Shedd said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Aspen, Colorado at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  