-- Muhammad Ali Combatant Inoki Among Japan Election Winners
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-07-22T00:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/muhammad-ali-combatant-inoki-is-among-japan-s-election-winners.html
A former Japanese wrestler who took
on boxer  Muhammad Ali  in a cross-discipline bout in the 1970s is
among the winners in his nation’s election to the upper house of
parliament yesterday.  Antonio Inoki, 70, was elected as a member of the  Japan 
Restoration Party, resuming a presence in Japan’s legislature
decades after he fought Ali to a draw in 1976. The ballot, which
suffered a slump in turnout as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
ruling coalition swept to a majority, also saw a television
actor win a seat on a platform opposing the restart of nuclear
reactors after the 2011 Fukushima meltdowns.  “I would like to thank everyone who gave me energy as I
rushed around sweating for this,” Inoki, who has made several
trips to  North Korea , told Fuji Television last night. “I would
like to focus on diplomatic issues.”  First elected to parliament in 1989 as a member of the now-defunct Sports and Peace Party, Inoki a year later traveled to
 Iraq  and met with  Saddam Hussein , helping to secure the release
of Japanese hostages in Iraq during the  Gulf War . He lost his
seat in 1995.  Inoki, whose real first name is Kanji, frequently appears
on television programs, commercials and in video games, and was
the first Japanese to be elected to the Wrestling Federation’s
Hall of Fame.  Anti-Nuclear Activist  His victory is a bright spot for the JRP, which has seen
its prospects slump since forming last year and winning the
third-most seats in November’s lower house election. Party co-founder and Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto came under fire for
comments in May justifying the forced prostitution of Asian
women for the Japanese Army during World War II. The party won
seven seats, according the exit polls by NHK Television.  Television actor and anti-nuclear activist Taro Yamamoto
also won a seat in the contest, running as an independent.
Yamamoto, who last year lost a bid for the lower house,
campaigned against restarting atomic reactors shut down after
the March 2011 Fukushima meltdowns at the Fukushima plant. He is
also opposed to Japan joining the U.S.-led Trans Pacific
Partnership trade talks, which Abe has made a signature policy.  Takeshi Fujimaki, a former adviser to billionaire investor
 George Soros , won on a JRP ticket on the proportional
representation ballot. Fujimaki said in an April interview that
the Bank of Japan’s "huge bet" by boosting its quantitative
easing won’t turn the economy around and is instead sending the
country toward default.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  