-- Hutchison May Exit ParknShop as It Seeks Telecom Growth
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a ,   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-07-22T05:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/hutchison-may-exit-parknshop-as-it-seeks-telecom-business-growth.html
Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s biggest
company may exit one of the two largest supermarket operations
in Hong Kong as it seeks to expand other businesses.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , which last month agreed to acquire
Telefonica SA’s Irish unit, is conducting a strategic review of
supermarket chain ParknShop, the company said in a statement on
July 20. The supermarket chain could fetch $3 billion to $4
billion in a sale, said a person with knowledge of the matter,
who asked not to be identified as the information is private.  “When you look at Hutchison in the last year, they have
not done any major sales of assets,” said Jackson Wong, vice
president of Hong Kong-based brokerage Tanrich Securities Co.
“They have been rather aggressive in buying up telecom
services. So selling ParknShop at a good price might be a quick
and dirty way instead of listing the chain.”  Hutchison is considering a sale because of the supermarket
business’s slow growth, and as the conglomerate seeks to raise
cash after striking several acquisitions recently, the person
said. The company has announced  $4.7 billion  of takeovers in the
past two years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company has no intention of withdrawing from the city,
it said, after the Wall Street Journal reported Li plans to exit
a  Hong Kong  grocery market that’s mature and growing slowly. A
timetable hasn’t been set for the review and there is no
certainty of a transaction being completed.  Possible Purchasers  The company is working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on the
review, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Li,  Asia ’s richest man with an estimated net worth of $26.9
billion, won the nickname “Superman” in Hong Kong for his
investing prowess.  ParknShop and Wellcome are the two largest supermarket
chains in Hong Kong with 33 percent and 40 percent share,
respectively, according to London-based Euromonitor.  China
Resources  Enterprise Ltd.’s CR Vanguard Supermarket ranked third
with 7.8 percent, it said.  China  Resources could be a suitor for Li’s chain in Hong
Kong, said Jacqueline Ko, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Kim Eng
Securities (HK) Ltd. China Resources got 6.9 percent of its
sales from Hong Kong last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It wouldn’t be a surprise that China Resources might be
interested -- they always do M&A,” Ko said. “They said in the
past Hong Kong is difficult to get into because it’s always
dominated by ParknShop and Wellcome.” China Resources had cash
and near cash items of HK$16 billion at the end of last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Vincent Tse, China
Resources Enterprise’s spokesman, declined to comment.  Private Equity  A sale of ParknShop doesn’t have to be confined to
traditional supermarket operators,  Cusson Leung , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse, said by phone today.  “Even though Chinese or foreign supermarket operators may
be interested, it may also draw interest from financial
investors such as  private equity  funds,” Leung added
“ParknShop could be a very ideal candidate for a business trust
spin-off as it has huge amount of steady cashflow and it could
offer lucrative yields.”  Market Domination  In Hong Kong, where 16 percent of its revenue is generated,
Hutchison made 53 percent of its sales from retail, quarter of
which was from ParknShop, Watsons and electrical devices
retailer Fortress, according to its 2012 annual  report .  ParknShop in Hong Kong has more than 270 stores, and has
delivered growth from productivity and cost efficiency, the
annual report said. In China, the supermarket operations
reported declines in total revenue, reflecting lower  consumer
spending  from slower economic growth, according to the annual
report.  “ParknShop is one of their large retail arms, I do expect
more of this coming when the price is right, especially now that
others know they are interested in selling their assets,” said
Tanrich’s Wong.  Europe  accounted for 42 percent of Hutchison’s revenue,
where retail also led sales. Telecommunications was the second-biggest driver of sales in both regions, according to the annual
report.  Hutchison shares rose as much as 1.1 percent to HK$85.45 in
Hong Kong today before trading at HK$85.2 as of 1:15 p.m. local
time. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  dropped 0.1 percent. China
Resources advanced as much as 2.4 percent.  Hong Kong Commitment  “It’s not clear whether Li is planning to sell ParknShop,
but even if he were to sell, no one should ever doubt
Hutchison’s or Li’s commitment to Hong Kong,” said Sandy Mehta,
chief executive officer of Value Investment Principals Ltd. in
Hong Kong. “ParknShop is a valuable franchise which would be
hard to replicate, with commanding market share and effectively
a duopoly position in Hong Kong. Hutchison will surely get a
strong valuation for the business.”  Hutchison agreed on June 24 to buy  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2,
Ireland’s No. 2 mobile operator, for as much as 850 million
euros ($1.1 billion) to increase the group’s wireless market
share to 37.5 percent. The company was also in talks with
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  over a potential merger of their Italian
mobile-phone assets, but they were halted over disagreements
about valuation, according to people familiar with the matter.  Stake Sales  Hutchison’s joint venture in December  sold  its stake in a
company that owns  Singapore ’s Marina Bay Financial Centre’s
Tower 3 for S$1.035 billion ($817 million) to DBS Group Holdings
Ltd. The Hong Kong-based operator of ports and telecommunication
networks has  sold  stakes in other real estate companies, and in
October 2009 sold its computer-services company to  Avnet Inc. (AVT) , a
U.S. distributor of technology products.  Jeremy Lau, a Hutchison spokesman, declined to comment on
the potential valuation today.  Hutchison  reported  in March full-year profit that beat
analyst estimates on improved earnings from retail, telecom and
utilities businesses from China to the U.K. Growth in retail and
property as well as foreign exchange gains boosted operating
income, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  