-- Warner Bros. Plans Film Pairing Superman, Batman
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2013-07-21T20:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/warner-bros-plans-film-pairing-superman-batman.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros . is
preparing to unite super heroes Superman and Batman for the
first time in an action movie to debut in the summer of 2015.  Zack Snyder, who directed “Man of Steel,” will return for
the new film, which is slated to begin production next year, the
company said in an e-mailed statement. Snyder also broke the
news yesterday to attendees at  Comic-Con International  in San
Diego.  “Man of Steel,” starring British actor Henry Cavill, has
had $285 million in domestic ticket receipts in the six weeks
since its mid-June debut, according to Hollywood.com Box-Office.
The film posted the year’s second-best opening weekend with
$116.6 million, trailing only  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Iron Man 3.”  “We could not think of anyone better suited to the tasking
of bringing these iconic Super Heroes to the screen in his own
way,” Silverman said in the statement.  “Man of Steel” begins with the infant Superman rocketed
to Earth from the dying planet Krypton by his father, Jor-El. He
gradually realizes his special powers as he is reared by the
Kents, a humble Midwestern couple played by  Kevin Costner  and
Diane Lane.  Amy Adams  plays Lois Lane, the reporter who tries to
uncover the truth about Superman, and  Russell Crowe  makes brief
appearances as Jor-El.  The new Batman has yet to be cast, according to the
statement.  Separately, director Joss Whedon, who directed “Marvel’s
The Avengers” for Disney said at Comic-Con that the sequel will
be titled “Avengers: Age of Ultron.” The first film, released
last year, had worldwide sales of $1.5 billion.  Comic-Con, a four-day convention where television and film
studios promote new programming and projects, ends today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  