-- What’s in a Number? In China, Not Much
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P e t t i s
-- 2013-07-21T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/what-s-in-a-number-in-china-not-much.html
As the debate in Beijing intensifies
over the quality and sustainability of China’s economic growth,
a shift in thinking is taking place. China’s most thoughtful
economists are increasingly skeptical about the need for high
gross domestic product growth rates.  China’s leadership has always put great stock in its GDP
numbers. This year’s growth target is 7.5 percent; when Finance
Minister  Lou Jiwei  said in  Washington  earlier this month that
“the 7 percent goal should not be considered as the bottom
line,” China’s state-run media first reported, and then hastily
whitewashed, his statement. According to Xinhua News Agency, Lou
had actually used the 7.5 percent figure -- coincidentally, the
exact number reported July 15 for the second quarter.  Such shenanigans are pointless. GDP growth rates over the
next few years of 7.5 percent, or even 7 percent, will be
impossible to achieve. Until now, such gaudy statistics have
been produced by ballooning investment. With so much of that
investment now creating less economic value than debt, China has
experienced an unsustainable expansion in credit. The country is
perilously vulnerable to a chaotic adjustment.  This cannot continue. Growth will drop to well below 7
percent one way or another because credit growth must slow
sharply. Ultimately, though, GDP growth rates are the wrong
target. For China to successfully rebalance its economy toward a
healthier and more sustainable model, the measure that really
matters is how fast median  household income  is growing.  Anemic Spending  Why? Consider what it means for China to rebalance. With
household consumption at an astonishingly low 35 percent of GDP,
in order to raise that figure to even 50 percent of GDP within a
decade -- still by far the lowest proportion of any major
economy in the world -- consumption growth would have to exceed
GDP growth by close to four percentage points every year.  An average annual growth rate of 7.5 percent, in other
words, would require growth in consumption to exceed 11 percent.
How could China possibly get citizens to start spending that
much faster? In fact, consumption  now contributes less  to GDP
growth in  China  than it did during the first half of 2012.  It is now widely understood that the reason for China’s
very low household consumption share is the very low household
income share of GDP, which, at around 50 percent, is among the
lowest ever recorded. To raise that figure while maintaining GDP
growth of 7.5 percent, or even 6 percent, would require a
ferocious surge in Chinese household income, even as China and
the world slow down. This will be impossible to achieve without
a continued, and very dangerous, surge in debt.  As a number of prominent Chinese economists have noted, it
is not the GDP growth rate that matters for ordinary Chinese
people. Ordinary Chinese, like people everywhere, do not care
about their per-capita share of GDP. They care about their real
disposable income.  In recent decades, real disposable income has grown at well
above 7 percent a year, which, although much lower than China’s
GDP growth rate, is nonetheless a tremendous feat. This is the
growth rate that must be maintained. Beijing’s policies should
aim for average annual growth in household income of 6 or 7
percent.  This would ensure social stability and would continue to
drive  China’s economy  forward. It implies, however, that if
China is to rebalance meaningfully, GDP must grow by “only” 3
to 4 percent, which -- although low by recent Chinese standards
-- is consistent with rapid growth in the income of ordinary
Chinese and a real and sustained rebalancing of the Chinese
economy, as well as consistent with almost zero investment
growth.  Biggest Challenge  Maintaining the growth rate in disposable household income
while reducing investment will not be easy, of course. This is
the biggest challenge Beijing faces. In principle, it can be
done by reversing hidden transfers from the household sector to
the state -- raising deposit rates to a level at which household
savers are fairly compensated, for instance -- and transferring
resources directly from the state to the household sector (by
privatizing state assets), as well as by changing China’s
over-reliance on cheap capital to make its growth more
labor-intensive. But there will be tremendous opposition from
the political elite to many of these measures.  Still, the critical point is that China does not need to
grow at 7.5 percent. This myth should be discarded. What matters
is that ordinary Chinese people continue to improve their lives
at the rate to which they are accustomed and that the Chinese
economy begins to let the air out of its credit bubble. Current
targets are appropriate for household income growth. They are
meaningless for GDP growth.  ( Michael Pettis  is a finance professor at  Peking University 
and author of “The Great Rebalancing: Trade, Conflict, and the
Perilous Road Ahead for the World Economy.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Pettis at  chinfinpettis@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 