-- Whitey Bulger Case Puts Boston Mythology on Trial
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-07-21T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/whitey-bulger-case-puts-boston-mythology-on-trial.html
You know something is a big deal in
 Boston  when it steals headlines from allegations that the New
England Patriots’ only healthy tight end committed multiple
murders.  But the  trial  of James “Whitey” Bulger is, if you can
believe it, bigger than sports. It’s bigger than the pending
trial of accused Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.
Bulger’s trial isn’t just a fascinating, sordid tale. It’s a
true-life Sophoclean drama, enacted in a Bahston accent. And,
most poignantly, it’s a requiem for a city that no longer
exists.  The place to start is with the jaw-dropping story that
makes the plot of a Dennis Lehane thriller seem vaguely dull and
predictable. The 83-year-old Bulger is standing trial on 19
murder charges, all of which he allegedly committed before 1994,
when he disappeared until his 2011 arrest in  California . And, in
case you hadn’t heard, Bulger wasn’t just any South Boston Irish
mafioso specializing in hijacking, extortion and cocaine. His
brother Billy was for many years president of the Massachusetts
Senate; he was widely considered the most powerful politician in
the state, outstripping a series of governors, including former
presidential candidate Michael Dukakis.  Each of the two famous Bulger brothers represented one
aspect of Boston’s colorful Irish-American history. The pol was
the last in a long line of effective, ruthless and, in some
cases, corrupt machine bosses going back to James Michael
Curley, John “Honey Fitz” Fitzgerald (the grandfather of
President John F. Kennedy) and Frank Skeffington, the fictional
hero of Edwin O’Connor’s “The Last Hurrah.”  Irish Democracy  According to legend, such men stood up for the solidarity
of the Irish Catholic community that defined Boston for a
century. Struggling against the Protestant Yankees who strove to
keep them in their place, they embodied democracy in its best
and worst forms. Their strength came, above all else, out of
Boston’s distinct neighborhoods -- the defining glue of the
city, urban strongholds that the nostalgic like to remember for
their familial ties, their connected parishes and their mutual
support.  As for Whitey, he stands for the dark underside of those
same neighborhoods that today have changed through a combination
of white flight, gentrification and urban diversification. Power
was wielded there not just by benignly corrupt politicians, but
also by gunmen with ties to the Italian Mafia, the Provisional
Irish Republican Army and, eventually, the emerging drug
cartels.  You’d think it would be difficult to generate nostalgia for
men who blithely (allegedly) murdered their girlfriends
alongside their business partners -- but you’d be wrong, as
popular films like Ben Affleck’s “The Town” vividly
illustrate. In the genre of Boston-Irish gangster nostalgia, the
decline of the white robbery crews becomes a potent class
metaphor for the struggles of working-class Bostonians.  If the gangster-whose-brother-is-the-politician isn’t
enough to explain the fascination with the case, there’s more.
For decades, Whitey enjoyed a close working relationship with
Federal Bureau of Investigation agents -- so close, in fact,
that at least one agent, John Connolly Jr., kept Bulger informed
of the whereabouts of an enemy whom he later allegedly murdered.
Connolly also tipped off Bulger that other agents were about to
arrest him, giving Bulger enough time to escape -- for 16 years.
These facts came out at Connolly’s trials, where he was
convicted of murder and racketeering; the FBI has since paid
some $100 million to victims injured as a result of agent
misconduct.  Southie Code  It is Bulger’s relationship to the FBI that has come to be
the other symbolic center of the trial. Apparently seeking to
minimize Bulger’s mythic status, federal prosecutors have sought
to prove that he was a paid FBI informant at least since 1974.
Rising to the bait, Bulger, through his lawyers, has insisted
that it was exactly the other way around -- that he paid the
police to provide him with information.  This fierce debate has, of course, almost nothing to do
with whether Bulger is a murderer. The federal code doesn’t
matter. What matters is whether Bulger violated the Southie code
-- by being a rat. (The most likely truth, of course, is that he
was both rat and mastermind, both user and used.)  And the real reason the trial’s participants and the public
care so much is that the version of Bulger’s past that emerges
dominant from the trial will shape the story of Boston’s
criminal history for decades to come -- maybe forever. The
stakes aren’t about the conviction of an 83-year-old man, but
about whether Boston’s crooks were vicious and noble or vicious
and craven. This question stands in for the deeper question of
what an increasingly diverse Boston -- less than half of its
citizens were white as of the 2010 Census -- will make of its
historical heritage.  The local color and the agonizing details will both keep
coming. One potential witness, a victim of Bulger’s alleged
extortion,  dropped dead  the other day -- investigation pending.
Testimony is coming from Bulger’s former partner, Stephen “The
Rifleman” Flemmi, who has already pleaded guilty to 10 murders.
At one point, Bulger shouted at a prosecution witness, “You
suck,” which led to an exchange of obscenities in the
courtroom.  Bostonians will enjoy watching for these tokens of local
bravado. But in our hearts, we feel terror and pity for the
denizens of a world that had much good and much brutality to it
-- for their hubris and for the damage they did in a world
that’s now gone, never to return.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at Harvard University and
the author of “Cool War: The Future of Global Competition” and
“The Fall and Rise of the Islamic State,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. Follow him on Twitter at @NoahRFeldman.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  nfeldman@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 