-- Yankees Break Three-Game Losing Streak With 5-2 Win Over Red Sox
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-07-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/yankees-break-three-game-losing-streak-with-5-2-win-over-red-sox.html
Hiroki Kuroda got his ninth win as
the  New York  Yankees broke a three-game losing streak with a 5-2
victory over the American League East-leading  Red Sox  at Fenway
Park in Boston.  Brett Gardner  singled home one run in the fifth inning
yesterday before Luis Cruz,  Robinson Cano  and Lyle Overbay drove
in three more in the seventh. Cano added an insurance run in the
ninth with a sacrifice fly that scored Cruz.  Kuroda (9-6) allowed two runs on five hits, striking out
four in seven innings.  “It was a close game all along, so I had to be careful
with my pitches,” Kuroda told reporters through a translator.
“But when they gave me the run support, I think I was able to
be more bold.”  Boston manager John Farrell said he was impressed by
Kuroda’s speed in the last innings he pitched.  “I think what was most impressive was, in these
conditions, to be able to touch 95 in the sixth, seventh innings
against the meat of our order when he needed it,” Farrell told
reporters. “He’s a very good pitcher and had a good day
today.”  Mariano Rivera  got his 31st save, giving up one hit and
striking out one in the ninth.  “I always love to pitch here, always,” Rivera said.
“Yankee Stadium’s home, but I love to come here. It’s a great
atmosphere. We’ve played big games here. It’s always good.”  The Red Sox got their first run when  David Ortiz  scored on
Jonny Gomes’s sacrifice fly in the seventh inning, followed by
Mike Carp’s score on a wild pitch by Kuroda.  John Lackey  (7-7) surrendered four runs on 10 hits while
striking out seven in 6 1/3 innings.  The Red Sox (59-40) have split the first two games of the
three-game Major League Baseball series to remain six games
ahead of the fourth-place Yankees (52-45) in the AL East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  