-- Tycoons Usurped by SOEs in China IPOs as Returns Tumble
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   E m m a   B i
-- 2013-07-21T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/tycoons-usurped-by-soes-in-china-ipos-as-returns-tumble.html
In December,  China  Machinery
Engineering Corp., a builder of power stations, went public in
 Hong Kong  thanks to five Chinese government-owned companies that
bought almost a third of the $575 million offering. The stock
has since fallen 24 percent.  China Machinery is among a growing number of state-owned
enterprises forced to rely on so-called cornerstone investments
by other state firms to get initial public offerings done, as
wealthy individuals like Li Ka-shing stopped investing. The
results haven’t been stellar.  These IPOs have dropped on average 8 percent within their
first six months of trading compared with a gain of 15 percent
for all Hong Kong IPOs worth at least $500 million in the last
decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The weak
returns reflect how investors increasingly view the presence of
SOEs as a sign of a less-desirable offering. The trend threatens
to stifle an already weak market for Chinese IPOs by diminishing
investor appetite.  “If a deal is half-filled with SOEs, yes, it may get done,
but it’s probably not going to trade up,” said Philippe Espinasse, former head of  equity capital markets  for  Asia  at
Nomura Holdings Inc. and author of “IPO: a Global Guide.”
“This creates a spiral: deals don’t trade well and even fewer
people want to take part in IPOs.”  Hong Kong rose to become one of the world’s top IPO markets
in the last decade as some of China’s biggest companies, such as
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , went public
employing cornerstone investors. These investors receive
guaranteed stock in an IPO in return for holding the shares for
at least six months.  Tycoons Wary  At first, cornerstones tended to be large institutions or
wealthy individuals, their presence meant to signal that the
issuer was sound and that a stable base of investors would
undergird the stock.  “Originally, they brought in the tycoons because when you
had  Li Ka-shing  coming in, everyone said it must be a good
deal,” said David Norman, a Hong Kong-based equity capital
markets lawyer at David Norman & Co., referring to Asia’s
richest man.  As Hong Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 9 percent
since the start of 2011 and IPO returns worsened, billionaire
businessmen like Li cooled to such deals. Accustomed to reaping
almost guaranteed profits on IPOs, they now faced little upside,
said Chee Keong Low, associate professor in corporate law at the
 Chinese University  of Hong Kong, who was a member of the Hong
Kong exchange listing committee from 2006 to 2010.  China Hongqiao Group Ltd., Far East Horizon Ltd. and MGM
China Holdings Ltd., which went public in the first half of
2011, were the last $500 million-plus IPOs to feature wealthy
individuals as cornerstone investors, among them hedge  fund
manager   John Paulson , who bought $75 million of MGM China stock.  Returns Trail  To fill the void, Chinese SOEs started making more
cornerstone investments, typically purchasing shares in other
state-controlled companies going public. They accounted for a
record average 73 percent of cornerstone buying in $500 million-plus Hong Kong IPOs in the past 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Yet over the past decade, their deals returned less than
other IPOs, based on a Bloomberg review of offerings of at least
$500 million in Hong Kong. The analysis covered performance in
the first six months of trading, the typical lockup period for
cornerstone investors.  Political Motives  The 13 IPOs where Chinese SOEs purchased more than half of
the cornerstone tranche posted an average drop of 8 percent,
according to the data. By contrast, the 14 offerings where non-Chinese companies or funds were the main cornerstones returned
an average 41 percent, the data show, while the 19 deals
dominated by wealthy individuals returned 11 percent.  The average six-month gain for all 88 IPOs of more than
$500 million in the last decade was 15 percent, according to the
data.  The low returns may reflect how Chinese SOEs are buying
into IPOs without a strategic reason, said  Binay Chandgothia ,
fund manager at Principal Global Investors in Hong Kong, where
he helps oversee $280 billion. That may affect the quality of
the deals and raise doubts among investors about the companies’
long-term growth, he said.  Top executives at state-owned companies going public may
not be especially disturbed by the poor stock performance, said
Hu Xingdou, a professor of economics at Beijing Institute of
Technology. They are often appointed by the government, he said,
and see a completed IPO as a stepping stone to bigger positions
in politics or at other SOEs.  “To Chinese SOEs, the success of an IPO is often more
important than their returns,” said professor Low of the
Chinese University.  Why Invest?  In some cases, state-owned companies did reciprocal
cornerstone investments to help IPOs get completed.  People’s Insurance Company (Group) of China Ltd.  bought $50
million worth of shares in  China Machinery (1829) ’s December IPO, while
two weeks earlier the parent of China Machinery bought $75
million of shares in PICC Group’s $3.6 billion IPO, according to
prospectuses for the two share sales. PICC Group’s share price
is little changed since it started trading in December.  “There’s no law against it but you wonder why machinery
makers invest in insurance companies,” said Norman of David
Norman & Co. “It’s the sort of things that raise eyebrows of
the stock exchange.”  Strategic Rationale  China Machinery decided to have Chinese cornerstone
investors based on long-term strategic considerations, the
company said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “Chinese cornerstone investors often pick stocks based on
the synergy between the upstream and the downstream of an
industrial chain, with views on strategic and financial
cooperations,” the company said.  Three calls to the Beijing-based press office of PICC Group
seeking comment weren’t answered.  Hong Kong’s stock exchange has signaled concern that the
cornerstone structure is being used for purposes other than
investment gains, undermining the credibility of IPOs.  Guidance Letter  In February, the bourse warned underwriters and issuers
against cutting side deals with cornerstone investors in return
for buying shares in IPOs. In a so-called  guidance letter , the
exchange said it considers it “misleading to the public” to
offer incentives such as a waiver of brokerage commissions or an
option to sell shares back after listing.  “At the end of the day, cornerstone investors have to make
money out of it, whether the return is hard cash or soft
favor,” professor Low said.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., the Chinese e-commerce platform
considering an IPO, may be one company strong enough to go
public without cornerstone investors, according to equity
capital markets bankers who asked not to be identified because
Alibaba hasn’t decided when and where to sell shares. An IPO by
Alibaba could raise about $HK$100 billion ($12.9 billion), Ernst
& Young LLP said last month.  “Cornerstones are not a prerequisite for listing if it’s a
good company with a good story, well-known, well-governed and
with the right valuation,” said Ian Long, head of China equity
capital markets at Deutsche Bank AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Bi in Hong Kong at 
 ebi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  