-- Stocks Rise, Oil Slips as Investors Weigh Data, Earnings
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-07-22T20:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-21/yen-to-asian-futures-rally-on-abe-win-after-u-s-advance.html
U.S. stocks rose while oil fell as
investors analyzed corporate earnings and home sales to gauge
the prospects for continued central bank stimulus. Copper and
gold rallied while the yen strengthened.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent at 4 p.m.
in New York, climbing to a record. The Stoxx Europe 600  index 
added 0.2 percent. Oil tumbled 1.1 percent from a 16-month high,
while copper increased 1.4 percent and gold jumped the most in
more than a year. Portugal’s bonds climbed and the yen
strengthened 1.1 percent against the dollar.  McDonald’s Corp. slipped 2.7 percent after revenue missed
forecasts, while sales of previously owned U.S. houses
unexpectedly dropped in June. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s ruling coalition faces the challenge of maintaining unity
and public support after cementing control of both houses of
parliament on a platform of economic revival.  “The earnings reflect a growing economy, but not a robust
economy, not a runaway economy,” John Carey, a fund manager at
Boston-based Pioneer Investment Management Inc., said by
telephone. His firm oversees $211.5 billion. “There was concern
that the economy may be doing a little better than the Fed was
estimating and that might lead to an earlier tapering. Now with
fairly modest economic growth and slow earnings growth, I don’t
think people are going to be as worried about the tapering.”  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  rallied 0.7 percent last week to a record, as
companies reported higher-than-estimated earnings and Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank remains flexible
about the duration of its asset-purchase program. Fed stimulus
and corporate earnings have helped fuel a surge in stocks
worldwide, with the S&P 500 jumping as much as 151 percent from
its March 2009 low.  Earnings Season  Of the 108 companies on the gauge to have already reported
quarterly results, 71 percent have exceeded analysts’ profit
 estimates  and 52 percent have beaten sales projections, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors have increasingly turned to stocks this month.
Investors added $10.2 billion to U.S. equity exchange-traded
funds last week, bringing the total in July to $29.7 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mutual funds that
invest in U.S. equities had $4.55 billion of inflows during the
week through July 10, ending seven consecutive weeks of
withdrawals.  Individuals have 69 percent of their assets in mutual
funds, almost a percentage point more than the average since
1992 and four points more than in 2012, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said in a note to clients. Investors are demonstrating the
“strongest risk appetite in five years,” according to the note
dated July 19.  ‘Pretty High’  “What we’ve seen since June is market participants
reengage pretty actively,” Arvin Soh, a New York-based
portfolio manager with GAM, said in a phone interview. His firm
has more than $48 billion under management. “Confidence is
pretty high at least toward the opportunity set. Broadly,
managers are trying to differentiate their trade a little
more.”  Treasury 10-year note yields were little changed at 2.48
percent. Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said
yesterday the Fed won’t tighten policy until 2016 at the
earliest. Ten-year yields had climbed to the highest since
August 2011 this month after Bernanke said in June the central
bank could reduce asset purchases this year if policy makers saw
a sustainable economic recovery.  Homebuilders Slump  Newmont Mining Corp. climbed 5.8 percent, leading gains
among gold producers, as the metal’s price surged. McDonald’s
slipped 2.7 percent after revenue missed forecasts. Yahoo Inc.
dropped 4.3 percent after saying activist investor Daniel Loeb
is leaving the board. Homebuilders fell, with D.R. Horton Inc.
losing 2.2 percent, as sales of previously owned houses
unexpectedly dropped in June.  Purchases of existing  U.S. houses  fell 1.2 percent to a
5.08 million annualized rate, the National Association of
Realtors reported today in  Washington . The median forecast of 79
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 5.26 million pace.
The pace of the demand was the second strongest since November
2009 following May’s downwardly revised 5.14 million rate.  The broadest rally in U.S. stocks since at least 1990 has
lifted shares of everything from the smallest companies to the
biggest banks, signaling the bull market for America’s largest
corporations will last at least until the end of the year, if
history is a guide.  Index Highs  The S&P 500’s advance to a record last week coincided with
highs in the Russell 2000 Index of smaller companies, the Dow
Jones Transportation Index, the S&P 500 Financials Index and a
gauge of economically sensitive equities overseen by Morgan
Stanley. Since 1990, the S&P 500 has gained for six months on
average after those measures peaked, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  While bears say the breadth shows indiscriminate buying
just as profit growth slows and the Fed prepares to curtail
stimulus, gains across stock measures have proved an accurate
forecaster of performance. In four market tops during the last
23 years, small-cap stocks and the cyclical gauge never peaked
after the S&P 500.  “It is pretty broad slice of America you are looking at,”
John Manley, who helps oversee $222.7 billion as chief equity
strategist for Wells Fargo Funds Management in New York, said in
a July 17 phone interview. “What that is saying is that you
have an economy that is improving somewhat, but the market has
not been hyper-extended and the Fed is still accommodative.
What’s not to like about that?”  Volatility Index  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
VIX, slid 2 percent today to 12.29, the lowest level since April
12. The equity volatility gauge, which moves in the opposite
direction as the S&P 500 about 80 percent of the time, reached a
 six-month high  in June and has since fallen 40 percent.  In Europe, the volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600
companies was 24 percent less than the 30-day average today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  UBS (UBSN)  advanced 2.5 percent as Switzerland’s largest bank
reported an increase in second-quarter profit and said it
reached an agreement in principle with the U.S. Federal Housing
Finance Agency to settle claims related to residential mortgage-backed securities offerings between 2004 and 2007. Royal Philips
Electronics NV climbed 2.1 percent in Amsterdam trading after
second-quarter earnings jumped 30 percent.  Royal KPN NV surged 13 percent. Telefonica SA has revived
negotiations to take over KPN’s German mobile-phone business in
an attempt to consolidate in one of Europe’s most competitive
wireless markets.  Copper, Gold  The S&P’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials slid 0.3 percent
as West Texas Intermediate fell 1.1 percent to $106.91 a barrel
on the New York Mercantile Exchange, reversing an earlier
advance of as much as 0.7 percent. Oil settled at $108.05 on
July 19, the highest closing price since March 2012.  Gold increased 3.3 percent, the most since June 2012, to
$1,337.30 an ounce on speculation that the Fed will maintain
U.S. economic stimulus, boosting the appeal of the precious
metal as a store of value. Copper rose to $3.185 a pound after
reaching $3.215 earlier, the highest level in almost six weeks.
Silver jumped 5.4 percent.  Japanese Shares  Japanese  shares  advanced as Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party
and its New Komeito ally secured a majority of at least 135
seats in the upper house, according to estimates by state
broadcaster NHK. The LDP has controlled the lower house since
elections in December.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.5 percent and the
Topix Index was up 0.4 percent.  The yen strengthened 0.8 percent to 131.26 per euro, after
weakening in the previous three trading days. The 17-nation
shared currency added 0.3 percent to $1.3186. The Bloomberg
Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against 10 major
currencies, dropped 0.4 percent to the lowest since June 19.  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield fell 41 basis points to 6.39
percent after earlier reaching 6.31 percent, the lowest since
June 20. The two-year note yield dropped 43 basis points to 4.67
percent.  Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva said the
government of Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  would stay in
office until its term ends in 2015 and reaffirmed he doesn’t
want to call early elections. He made the comments after ruling
coalition parties and the main opposition Socialists were unable
to agree on measures to complete a European Union-led bailout
plan after six days of talks.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield fell nine basis points to 4.31
percent and Spain’s dropped seven basis points, to 4.61 percent.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose for the first time in
three days, adding 0.4 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index
gained 0.6 percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland shares listed in Hong Kong fell 0.4 percent as banks
declined after  China  removed a floor on lending rates. Russia’s
Micex Index dropped 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Verdonck in London at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  