-- M&A May Recover After Election, JPMorgan’s Lee Says
-- B y   B e t t y   L i u   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-09-14T13:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/m-a-activity-may-recover-after-election-jpmorgan-s-lee-says-1-.html
(Corrects content of Weiss’s comment in seventh paragraph
of story that ran yesterday.)  Mergers and acquisitions in the
U.S., proceeding at the slowest pace in three years, may pick up
after the presidential election in November,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  Vice Chairman James B. “Jimmy” Lee said.  “A lot of people are hoping that after the election,
regardless of who wins, that a big cloud of uncertainty is going
to be taken away,” Lee said at the annual Bloomberg Markets 50
Summit today in  New York . “Next year could be the year” for a
resurgence in transactions, he said.  Companies have amassed cash on their balance sheets and are
reluctant to make acquisitions ahead of the election and amid
the possibility of spending cuts and tax increases in January,
Lee said. Dealmaking in the U.S. this year is on track to be the
lowest since 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. To
date, $506 billion in deals have been announced, about 24
percent less than in the same period in 2011, the data show.  “Big public-company CEOs want to eliminate, to the extent
possible, uncertainty,” Lee said. “They definitely have the
firepower. They just really haven’t had the willpower yet.”  A recovery is “around the corner,” Lee said, since it’s
been about four years since the beginning of the financial
crisis. In 2009, M&A volume totaled $655 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Cross-Border Deals  A growing share of merger activity involves combinations
that cross national borders, said Antonio Weiss, the New York-
based head of  investment banking  at  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , at a separate
panel discussion. He added that the percentage of such deals
this year is the greatest in half a decade. The U.S.’s share of
the merger market is shrinking and  Asia ’s is growing, he said.  “When the next wave comes, it’s going to be about
globalization,” Weiss said. “And waves are not subtle -- we’ll
all know that it’s started.”  Peter Weinberg , the co-founder of Perella Weinberg Partners
LP, the New York-based investment bank, said companies may never
again announce as many deals as they did in the record year of
2007, when cheap credit fueled a leveraged-buyout boom.  “The $4 trillion years will never return,” Weinberg said.  “The caution that executives and boards are exhibiting
right now is very prudent,” Weinberg added. “People are
responsibly prudent, in some ways. That may mean the M&A
business is not great for a while, but that’s our problem, not
the boards’ problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Betty Liu  in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  