-- ‘Camp 14’ Tells Tale of North Korea Brutality in Toronto
-- B y   S t e v e n   F r a n k   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-09-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/-camp-14-tells-tale-of-north-korea-brutality-in-toronto.html
If Shin Dong-Huyk’s life was a work
of fiction, it would be practically unbelievable.  Born in a North Korean forced-labor camp 80 kilometers (49
miles) from Pyongyang, Shin had no idea of the world beyond the
barbed-wire fences nor any hope of release. Indoctrinated from
birth, he reported to the guards that he’d overheard his brother
and mother discussing an escape when he was 14. Guilty by
association, he was imprisoned for seven months, tortured with
fire and then released just in time to attend their public
executions.  “It’s like in a Shakespeare drama,” filmmaker Marc Wiese
said of the central story in his new documentary “ Camp 14:
Total Control Zone ,” being shown this week at the Toronto
International Film Festival. “It’s shocking.”  Built around a series of exclusive interviews filmed in
Seoul, where Shin, 28, now lives after escaping the camp,  the
documentary  captures a young man’s painful attempt to look back.
At a time of new leadership in Pyongyang and speculation about a
thaw in the hard-line communist regime, “Camp 14” is a
reminder about how brutal the North Korean system remains.  Shin’s revelations stand in contrast to his blank stares
and numb delivery. He didn’t shed a tear when his mother was
executed because, he recalls, “I hadn’t learned that you’re
supposed to cry when your mother is executed.” And then without
betraying any emotion, he adds, “Thinking about it now, I can’t
be certain they really wanted to escape.”  Chilling Tales  To tell Shin’s story, Wiese intermingles animated
recreations, scenes of modern  Seoul  and a grainy film that he
said shows a North Korean prison guard beating a woman over the
head so hard with a stick that it breaks.  The documentary also includes interviews with two former
high-ranking officers whose stories are as chilling as Shin’s.
One of the men, Kwon Hyuk, a former commander in the North
Korean gulag, describes without emotion how he could force any
prisoner to do anything he wanted under the threat of death.  “The decision whether to kill them or let them live was
completely up to me,” said Kwon, who now has a young son and
earns his living as a construction worker in  South Korea .  Shin’s experience of the outside world may be even more
shocking than his memories of life inside. Shin tells Wiese that
he finds it difficult to fit into modern society, and then adds
that he misses his life in Camp 14 and wants to return.  When Wiese heard him say that during filming, he said he
was so shocked that he asked Shin several times if he had
misspoken.  ‘This Hell’  “For two weeks, in hours and hours and hours of
interviews, he told me about this hell” in the camp, Wiese said
yesterday in an interview at a Toronto hotel. “And then he said
he wanted to go back into this hell?”  As perverse as it first sounded, Wiese said he began to
understand what Shin meant.  “I see the loneliness he had to face” on his own in South
Korea, Wiese said of Shin’s life. “He’s unable to manage
that.”  Wiese is no stranger to violence in the topics he’s covered
in previous documentaries.  His 2004 film “ Radovan Karadzic : Most Wanted?” chronicled
the foot-dragging in the hunt for indicted Bosnian Serb war
criminal Radovan Karadzic, for which he said he interviewed
other thugs from the war in Bosnia. Unlike them and other
killers he said he’s interviewed, Wiese was shocked by the way
the North Korean officers he interviewed for “Camp 14” felt no
remorse or the need to make excuses for what they did.  Korean Reaction  “These guys were coming and saying, ‘I saw a woman, I
raped her,’” Wiese said in the interview. “‘If she refused, I
killed her. If she got pregnant, we killed her.’”  Wiese, who is from Germany, said he’s curious to see how
South Korean audiences react when the film is shown at a Seoul
film festival later this year. Many South Koreans are fed up
with the story of North Korean defectors, he said, because they
don’t want to see the Koreas reunify, and cite the heavy cost of
 Germany ’s reunification as an argument against it.  Wiese said he hopes his film will keep the topic of  North
Korea  alive in public discourse. The issues are often ignored
even though there are 200,000 North Koreans locked up in labor
camps that can clearly be seen by anyone at home using the
Google Maps web application, he said.  “Can you imagine seeing Auschwitz live on a computer?”
Wiese said.  (The film is scheduled to screen tonight at 9 p.m. and
again on Sept. 16 at 9:30 a.m. at the Toronto International Film
Festival. For more on the program, go to  tiff.net/thefestival .)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Frank in Toronto at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  