-- Fiscal Cliff ‘Meaningful Drag’ on Economy, Kashkari Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-09-13T15:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/-meaningful-drag-on-economy-from-fiscal-cliff-kashkari-says.html
Lawmakers and President  Barack Obama  probably will strike a deal in a post-election session of
Congress to defer most of the $700 billion in expiring tax cuts
and spending reductions known as the fiscal cliff, said  Neel Kashkari , Pimco’s managing director and head of global equities.  Kashkari, speaking at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in
 New York , said his company predicts that a deal will be reached
to defer all except $250 billion of the tax cuts and spending
reductions slated to start in January. Still, the  U.S. economy 
will be hindered, he said.  “With our outlook for the U.S. economy being quite slow
growth, 1.5 to 2 percent growth, a $250 billion fiscal drag is a
pretty significant headwind, given our slow economic growth,”
Kashkari said. “So we think we’re going to avoid recession, but
it is going to be a meaningful drag on the U.S. economy.”  The deficit-reduction agreement reached last year by
President Barack Obama and congressional Republicans has created
a “fiscal cliff” of spending cuts and tax increases starting
in January unless Congress acts to stop it. The  Congressional
Budget Office  forecast that if Congress does nothing, the fiscal
changes would trigger a recession.  ‘Premeditated Crisis’  “If there is such a thing as a premeditated crisis, this
is one,”  Andy Stern , former president of the  Service Employees
International Union , said at today’s Bloomberg Markets summit.
“They’ve created exactly the scenario they want to have, which
is to put their backs up against the wall since that’s the only
way Congress will act.”  Kashkari predicted that a deal would come together soon
after the election because “Republicans and Democrats are
fighting a lot and making a lot of noise, but they agree about a
lot more than they disagree.” Both parties, for example,
probably will agree to let a payroll tax cut and expanded
unemployment benefits end, he said.  Obama has been silent on whether to allow the 2 percentage-
point payroll tax cut that he championed in 2011 to expire at
the end of the year. He has focused instead on extending the
George W. Bush-era tax cuts on income up to $200,000 a year for
individuals and $250,000 a year for married couples, while
letting them expire for top earners.  Republicans, who control the House, are insisting on
extending the Bush tax cuts, which expire Dec. 31, for all
income levels.  If Obama wins a second term and Republicans gain majority
control of the Senate, Obama would probably press for the best
deal he could get during the post-election session, Stern said.
Should Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  win on Nov.
6, there will be “a lot of willingness to give him time to look
at the situation, make his own plans,” Stern said, predicting
that a deal would come later.  ’Real Damage’  Lawmakers “did real damage to the U.S. economy because of
their fighting right up until the last minute” in 2011 over
whether to raise the federal debt ceiling, Kashkari said, adding
that Pimco was having trouble quantifying how injurious down-to-
the-wire negotiations at the end of 2012 might be.  “The big uncertainty is how much brinkmanship there is
during the lame-duck session, how much it hurts confidence, just
like we saw a year ago with the debt ceiling fiasco,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  