-- ‘Weirwolf’ Eyes Endorsements After Paralympics Gold Rush
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-09-14T10:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/-weirwolf-eyes-endorsements-after-paralympics-gold-medal-haul.html
While David Weir won six medals at
the 2004 and 2008 Paralympics, it wasn’t until the British
wheelchair racer claimed four more golds at this month’s  London 
Games that he started to be acknowledged in public.  The Paralympics, which finished Sept. 9, attracted record
crowds and were broadcast live by the U.K.’s Channel 4. Weir
completed a sweep of his four events by winning the T54 marathon
on the final day. The sprint finish watched by thousands of
spectators in central London followed his victories in the 800,
1,500 and 5,000 meters.  “To see of all of those people shouting out your name, it
was amazing,” Weir said in an interview at the London office of
his sponsor Philip Green, the billionaire owner of U.K. fashion
retailer Arcadia Group Ltd. “I get recognized now in the
street. It’s all very new for me but also very special.”  The “Weirwolf,” as Weir is known, was the most successful
Paralympian of London 2012 alongside his team-mate Sarah Storey,
who won four gold medals in cycling. They carried their nation’s
flag at the closing ceremony, where Rihanna and Coldplay
performed in the Olympic Stadium.  Since starting in the shadows of the Rome Olympics in 1960,
the Paralympics have grown from 400 athletes representing 23
nations to more than 4,200 competitors from 164 countries in
London. A record 2.7 million tickets were sold for this year’s
edition, compared with 1.8 million at Beijing.  ‘Best Ever’  Philip Craven, president of the International Paralympic
Committee, called the London games “the best ever” at the
closing ceremony.  J Sainsbury Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest supermarket
chain, today extended its endorsement of the British Paralympic
Association by four more years after “an incredibly successful
games.”  The extension will help “athletes, coaches and support
staff build on their success in London and look forward to even
greater medal success in Rio 2016,” Chief Executive Officer
Justin King said in an e-mailed statement.  In 2010, Sainsbury became the first stand-alone sponsor of
the Paralympics in a deal the London Evening Standard at the
time said was worth 20 million pounds ($32 million).  The British Paralympic squad broke its own record with 120
medals at London 2012, including 34 gold, and finished third on
the overall medals table behind China and  Russia .  Philip Green  The increased media attention for Paralympic sports may
also boost both Weir’s bank balance.  “We’re seeing a massive shift in interest,” Jamie Baulch,
Weir’s agent, said in an interview. “People have now really
taken notice of Paralympic sports and started to take it
seriously. Now, sponsors are starting to look at them, and
saying, ’Actually, someone like David Weir is a world-class
sportsman.”’  Weir, born with a severed spinal cord, started competing
when he was nine after a racing wheelchair was donated to his
school. The softly spoken south Londoner with a tattoo on his
chest that says “winner” in Japanese has two elder brothers
who were talented amateur boxers.  Baulch, an Olympic silver relay medalist at Atlanta in
1996, said he’s in talks with “a number of companies” about
potential deals for the 33-year-old Weir, who endorses
GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s Lucozade drinks brand, carmaker Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG and Green.  “David has become a recognizable face during these games,
and that makes him attractive for brands,” Baulch said.  Philip Green  started sponsoring Weir three years ago after
the racer had a chance meeting while training in west London’s
Richmond Park with one of the Monaco-based billionaire’s friends
and told him he was still looking for a sponsor. Weir said Green
is in touch regularly.  Blade Runner  Weir, who has won six gold, two silver and two bronze
medals in his Paralympic career, credited South African sprinter
 Oscar Pistorius  for raising awareness of Paralympic sports.  Known as “ Blade Runner ” because of his J-shaped carbon
fiber legs, Pistorius last month became the first athlete on
prosthetic limbs to compete in the Olympics. At the Paralympics,
he won the 400-meter T44 final and lost his 100- and 200-meter
titles.  “He still competed well in the Paralympics and he got
beaten,” Weir said. “It just shows you how fierce the
competition is. People are now finally recognizing that
Paralympic sport is great.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 