-- 4SC in Talks With 3 Potential Partners for Cancer Drug
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2012-09-14T07:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/4sc-in-talks-with-3-potential-partners-for-cancer-drug.html
(Corrects details of Sharp trial in penultimate paragraph
of story published Sept. 13.)  4SC AG (VSC)  said it’s in talks with at
least three potential partners after patients in a mid-stage
clinical trial of its liver cancer drug Resminostat combined
with  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Nexavar survived for eight months.  “Bayer decidedly has an interest in liver cancer,” 4SC
Chief Executive Officer Ulrich Dauer said in a telephone
interview today. “It would be negligent not to talk to them,”
Dauer said, without confirming 4SC is in negotiations with
Bayer. Dauer did not name any other potential partners.  The biotechnology company, based in Martinsried,  Germany ,
needs an investor to finance the last round of trials to produce
the safety and efficacy data needed for U.S. regulatory
approval. 4SC has about 20 million euros ($26 million) of cash
at hand, and spends about 1.1 million euros to 1.2 million euros
a month, Dauer said.  Doctors will diagnose about 28,720 new cases of  liver
cancer  this year in the U.S., and 20,550 people will die of the
disease, according to the  American Cancer Society . Resminostat
is also being tested in patients with colorectal cancer and
Hodgkin’s Lymphoma.  “We want to find a partner that is interested in
developing Resminostat broadly,” Dauer said.  4SC shares rose as much as 11 percent, the biggest intraday
advance since May 31. The stock was up 4.7 percent at 1.53 euros
as of 11:17 a.m. in Frankfurt trading.  Because patients added Resminostat to their drug regime
after a couple of months once their cancer had progressed, the
median overall survival of eight months in the results announced
today shows that the combination may extend cancer patients
lives by months, Dauer said. Patients taking only Nexavar
survived for 10.7 months in a separate, Bayer-run trial dubbed
Sharp.  4SC plans to start late-stage trials by mid-2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  