-- Accel-Backed Birchbox Makes First Purchase With JolieBox
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-09-13T18:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/accel-backed-birchbox-makes-first-purchase-with-joliebox.html
Birchbox Inc., the online U.S.
cosmetics company backed by venture firm  Accel Partners ,
acquired Paris-based rival JolieBox as the startup looks to
expand internationally and fend off competition.  Birchbox, known for sending monthly boxes of beauty samples
to more than 100,000 subscribers for $10 a month, will use the
purchase to boost its brand partnerships to more than 400, Katia
Beauchamp, co-founder of the New York-based company, said.
JolieBox, which has a “significant” base of customers will
give Birchbox access to  France ,  Spain  and the U.K., she said.
Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.  “Our vision was always to define discovery retail
globally,” Beauchamp said, referring to the business of
introducing curated products to drive further purchases.  The decision is partly an effort to define discovery
commerce abroad as Birchbox’s business model spawns dozens of
copycats, and to help make the company “as big as possible,”
she said in a telephone interview today.  Birchbox, started in 2010 by two women who met at  Harvard
Business School , uses the tailored monthly boxes to introduce
customers, especially young professionals, to beauty products
from brands such as Laura Mercier, Kiehl’s and Stila. The idea
is to encourage full-size purchases of products they like at its
online shop.  Beauchamp said more than 50 percent of customers go on to
make purchases at the online shop based on samples.  Expanding Business  Its online tutorials and e-mails to more than one million
consumers attract additional purchases on its website from
people who aren’t necessarily subscribers, Beauchamp said.  The startup, which had 40 to 50 employees in February, now
has about 90 and will add 25 staff members from JolieBox,
Beauchamp said.  Birchbox is focusing on growing its business and recognizes
it has multiple options in its future from being a standalone
business to conducting an initial public offering to being
acquired, she said.  Venture firms Accel and First Round Capital have provided
financing for the company. The company has raised $11.9 million
since its inception.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  