-- Aging Baby Boomers Face Losing Care as Filipinos Go Home
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-09-14T07:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/aging-baby-boomers-face-losing-care-as-filipinos-go-home.html
Stephanie Chan spent four years at
 Manila  Doctors College qualifying to work as a nurse overseas.
She never left the country. Instead, she switched careers and
now earns almost as much monitoring people’s finances.  Chan is one of thousands of Filipinos each year who study
to become health workers to boost their chance of a higher
income overseas. She’s also now part of a growing trend of
workers who are opting not to go. Chan now works at a call
center in Manila, where she reminds Macquarie Bank Ltd. credit-
card holders to make payments.  “I’m thankful this career opportunity opened up for me,”
said Chan, 23, who works the night shift at a business-process
outsourcing company and lives at home with her parents. “If I
can maintain a relatively high standard of living as a customer-
service representative, why go overseas to work as a nurse?”  Developed countries that rely on Philippine nurses and
Indian doctors to hold down costs in the $6.5 trillion global
health-care industry face greater competition for talent just as
 baby boomers  in the U.S.,  Europe  and Japan reach the prime age
for medical care.  Economic growth  in emerging economies, despite
some signs of recent slowing, is stoking investment in hospitals
and creating job opportunities in other industries that mean a
growing number of health workers choose to stay at home.  Worker Imbalance  The growth and investments should help reduce an imbalance
that has caused a severe shortage of health-care workers in
developing nations. Japan had 2.2 doctors and 9.5 nurses per
1,000 people in 2009, while the U.S. had 2.4 doctors and 10.8
nurses, according to the  OECD . In  Indonesia , the proportion was
0.2 doctors and 1.4 nurses, while in  India  it was 0.7 and 0.9.  Philippine President  Benigno Aquino , for instance, plans to
build and rehabilitate more than 2,700 hospitals, clinics and
community health centers next year as part of $9.7 billion
investment in infrastructure. The nation’s $225 billion economy
expanded 6.1 percent in the first half, and the peso is the best
performer against the dollar among Asia’s 11 most-traded
currencies this year, advancing about 5.5 percent.  “If you are taking more, somebody is losing, unless you
put in place a policy that increases the overall supply,” said
Kamalini Lokuge, a researcher at the Australian National
University in Canberra, who has advised the  World Health
Organization  on improving health care in  developing countries .
“There’s a shortage everywhere because of that.”  The world is short more than 3 million health workers,
including at least 1 million community nurses and doctors,
Westport, Connecticut-based  Save the Children  said in May.  Philippines, India  In  New Zealand , 34 percent of doctors and 21 percent of
nurses are from abroad, the highest among developed countries,
while in the U.S. 27 percent of doctors and 5 percent of nurses
are foreign, the WHO said in its  2006 World Health Report . More
than half of the health workers in the  Persian Gulf states  are
foreign-trained, according to the Geneva-based agency.  Philippine and Indian nationals lead the supply, each
making up 15 percent of all immigrant nurses and doctors
respectively in the 34-member  Organization for Co-operation and
Development . About 3 percent, or 89,000, of the 2.9 million
registered nurses in the U.S. are Asian, Native Hawaiian or
Pacific Islander, according to  MinorityNurse.com , Westford,
Massachusetts-based resource portal.  The health-worker deficit has reached a crisis level in 57
countries, according to the  Global Health Workforce Alliance , a
partnership created in 2006 by the WHO. Thirty-six of those
countries are in sub-Saharan Africa, which has a quarter of the
global burden of disease and only 3 percent of the world’s
health workers, it said.  $78,000 a Year  For countries that can afford to pay, the cost of health-
care workers is likely to rise. That means migrant workers stand
to more than double their pay from landing a job in an advanced
economy. Full-time registered nurses in the U.S. make about
$57,000 a year, according to MinorityNurse, while in  Australia 
they earn as much as A$75,000 ($78,000). In the  Philippines , an
entry-level nurse at a public hospital earns about 8,000 to
13,500 pesos ($195 to $325) a month, according to the Bureau of
Local Employment website.  Indonesian Wahyudin lifted his pay 2,900 percent by moving
to Japan from a clinic in East Java.  To get the job as a caregiver in one of the  world’s fastest
aging nations , the 30-year-old nurse, who uses one name, had to
study Japanese language and script day and night for three years
to pass the country’s challenging examination.  Coffee Plantation  Wahyudin sends most of his salary home to his parents, who
sold rice paddies to pay for his education. With the money, they
have bought a coffee plantation and built a two-story house in
the mountain village in Lampung, Sumatra. Wahyudin’s earnings
pay for his younger sister’s schooling.  “I cried when I first got my salary,” said Wahyudin, who
earns 185,000 yen ($2,390) a month -- the equivalent of more
than two and a half years’ pay as a nurse back home. He is one
of 80 Indonesian and Filipino nurses at  Kenshokai Group , which
operates 114 nursing homes and daycares in Tokushima, southwest
of  Tokyo .  The shortage of caregivers in Japanese hospitals and
nursing homes is worsening as the population ages. About one in
three Japanese will be over 65 by 2025, from one in 4.4 in 2009,
according to government data.  Japan opened its labor market for nurses and caregivers to
Indonesia and the Philippines as a part of trade agreements in
2008. Since then, 1,360 candidates have come to Japan and only
100 of them -- or 7 percent -- have passed the exams.  “We need to do whatever it takes to find workers,” said
heart surgeon Takaaki Kameda, chairman of  Kameda Medical Center 
in Chiba, east of Tokyo. “Demand for medical care will be much
higher when baby boomers in urban areas get older. We definitely
need to fill the shortages with immigrants.”  Teaching Japanese  The hospital opened a university for nurses in Japan and is
considering setting up Japanese classes at colleges in  China  to
help people there pass the test to work in Japan.  More than 40 percent of the  population  will be at least 60
years old in Japan and South Korea by 2050 and almost 35 percent
of the population in Europe is projected to be 60 or older by
2050, from 22 percent in 2009, according to the  United Nations .  The prospect of more, better-paid jobs back home appeals to
migrant worker Angel Claudio, who went to Singapore in January
to work as a staff nurse at  Khoo Teck Puat  public hospital.  “If the economy gets better and the salary gets better, I
think fewer Filipinos will work abroad,” said Claudio, 25,
during her break in the hospital cafeteria. “Who wants to be
far away from their family?”  The biggest losers in the talent battle may be the poorest
and most disease-prone countries. A billion people worldwide
lack reliable access to basic  health services , the Global Health
Workforce Alliance said.  Global Code  Three quarters of doctors trained in  Mozambique  are working
aboard, mostly in  Portugal ,  South Africa , the U.S. and the U.K.,
the Alliance said. HIV treatments that require administration by
physicians are being carried out by environment officers with
six weeks’ medical training in Zambia, said Lukuge at the
 Australian National University .  To address the challenge, the WHO adopted a  Global Code of
Practice  in May 2010 -- the first such use of the organization’s
constitutional authority in 30 years -- to provide a framework
to regulate aggressive recruitment. It recommends countries aim
for self-sufficiency of workers and developed nations provide
poorer economies with technical and financial assistance.  Meantime, nurses like Chan, who said she earns about 25,000
pesos a month at her call center, increasingly find
opportunities elsewhere, often in related industries.  Staying Put  Vackie Jonn Licudan, who qualified to work as a nurse in
the U.S., said he had wanted to move to America since he was a
boy. While he was waiting for an immigration pass to work in
 Vermont , he took a job at an outsourcing company in Manila. Now
he earns more than 80,000 pesos a month running a team of other
nurses who review medical insurance claims.  “I belong to an industry that is growing and, given the
career path and opportunities I have and will have, I no longer
want to move,” said Licudan, 31, who bought a 3.9 million-peso
apartment, goes clubbing twice a week and eats out almost every
day. “I can build my future here.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  