-- Talanx Ditches IPO After Investors Flinch at Price
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-09-13T10:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/talanx-ditches-ipo-after-investors-flinch-at-price.html
Talanx AG,  Germany ’s third-biggest
insurer, called off its initial public offering for a second
time in three months after investors balked at the price.  “Investor feedback on the company’s valuation deviated
significantly from the estimated minimum fair value that had
been communicated to Talanx by the investment banks managing the
transaction,” Hanover, Germany-based Talanx  said  yesterday.  Talanx, which has been considering an IPO for more than a
decade to finance expansion, postponed a plan to sell shares in
June because of the European sovereign debt crisis. Shelving the
IPO for a second time was a surprise because the market was good
for the past few weeks, said  Ben Cohen , an equity analyst at
Canaccord Genuity in  London . Talanx, led by Chief Executive
Officer Herbert Haas, may have faced competition from  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s planned IPO for its Direct Line
insurance unit, he said.  “Someone might have given Talanx the advice they wanted to
hear instead of being realistic,” said Cohen. “Direct Line was
also competing for investors’ money.”  Haas told German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine
Sonntagszeitung in an interview earlier this month that only a
surprise shock such as the Japan earthquake in 2011 could
challenge the insurer’s IPO plan and that Talanx plans to pay a
full dividend for 2012.  The IPO would have been the first big share sale by an
insurer in Germany since  Hannover Re , which is majority- owned  by
Talanx, sold shares in 1994.  Convertible Bond  Terms obtained by Bloomberg on Sept. 3 showed that the
company sought to raise 700 million euros ($904 million) in what
would have been Europe’s biggest IPO since February. It had
planned to list shares in Frankfurt and Hanover. Other German
companies, including Osram AG, Evonik Industries AG and
Rheinmetall AG’s car-part unit Kolbenschmidt Pierburg AG have
also canceled or postponed planned IPOs this year.  The IPO would have also included an additional 300 million
euros of shares from a convertible bond that Talanx sold to
Japanese insurer Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. in November
2010. That would have made it the biggest German IPO since
Gerresheimer AG, a medical packaging company, went public in
June 2007. Without Meiji Yasuda’s shares, it would have been the
biggest since  Brenntag AG (BNR) ’s stock sale in March 2010.  “Despite positive feedback on the business model of
Talanx, it became clear that, from the company’s perspective, a
placement of the shares would only be feasible with a
disproportionately high discount on the valuation that had
originally been determined by the banks,” the insurer said.  Unacceptable Discount  Valuations of insurers have been depressed by risks related
to the  European debt crisis  and pressure on investment income
from low  interest rates . The  Stoxx 600 Insurance Index (SXIP)  is valued
at 0.88 times its companies’  book value , or firms’ assets minus
liabilities. That compares with an average book value of 1.52
for members of the broad benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   “We have always stressed that we do not have to sell our
shares at any price,” Haas said. “The size of the valuation
discount demanded by the investors was unacceptable both for us
and for our shareholder.”  Talanx is owned by HDI Haftpflichtverband der Deutschen
Industrie VaG, a German mutual insurer. HDI, which is based in
Hanover and owned by its insurance customers, has said it will
keep a majority stake should Talanx sell shares to the public.  Polish Acquisitions  To speed up growth, it acquired  Poland ’s  Towarzystwo
Ubezpieczen i Reasekuracji Warta SA  earlier this year from KBC
Group NV for 770 million euros, beating rivals in eastern
 Europe ’s largest insurance market. When the purchase is
completed in the second half of 2012, Meiji Yasuda will take
over 30 percent of Warta, Poland’s second-largest insurer.  Warta was the second Polish takeover announced by Talanx
within two months after the company said in December that it
will pay 912 million zloty ($288 million) for a controlling
stake in insurer Europa SA.  Talanx has hired Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to manage the share sale with Rothschild
acting as an adviser.  The insurer, which owns a 50.2 percent stake in Hannover
Re, the world’s fourth-biggest reinsurer, said on Aug. 14 that
second-quarter net income rose 4 percent to 143 million euros.
Talanx could have joined Germany’s 110 biggest publicly listed
companies as the fourth insurer after  Allianz SE ,  Munich Re , the
world’s biggest reinsurer, and Hannover Re.  RBS is set to start the IPO for its insurance unit Direct
Line this week, said people with knowledge of the matter. The
lender will seek to sell about 25 percent of the business to
raise as much as 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion), the people
said. It would be the U.K.’s biggest IPO since Glencore
International Plc raised $10 billion in May 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  