-- Allianz’s Baete, Wemmer to Switch Posts in Second Shuffle
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-09-13T18:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/allianz-says-board-member-wemmer-cfo-baete-will-exchange-jobs.html
Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s biggest
insurer, said management board members Dieter Wemmer and Oliver Baete will switch jobs at the beginning of next year.  Baete, 47, will take responsibility for western and
southern Europe as of Jan. 1, Allianz said in a statement today.
His new board responsibility includes western European insurance
except  Spain , Portugal and the German-speaking countries, and
also includes global property and casualty.  Wemmer, 55, will in turn take the chief financial officer
post from Baete and take over controlling, reporting and risk
from him as well, the Munich-based insurer said.  Allianz, led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann,
last month reiterated its full-year operating profit target of
7.7 billion euros ($10 billion) to 8.7 billion euros. Baete, who
spent most of his  career  at McKinsey & Co. and joined Allianz in
2008 as chief operating officer, may be taking on some operating
responsibilities to help him become a candidate for the CEO post
once Diekmann, who turns 58 in December, retires.  “By the end of 2012, Oliver Baete will have set the course
for the implementation of the upcoming Solvency II regulatory
framework,” Diekmann said in the statement. “That is the right
moment to execute our plan for Oliver Baete to take over
operational responsibility for an insurance business and Dieter
Wemmer to take over Oliver Baete’s responsibility.”  Wemmer joined Allianz this year from  Zurich Insurance Group
AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s biggest insurer, amid another management
shuffle that included the appointment of Helga Jung as the first
woman on the insurer’s management board. Former Allianz finance
head  Paul Achleitner  became supervisory board chairman at
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  at the end of May.  Before joining Allianz, where he was appointed CFO in 2009
to succeed current supervisory board head Helmut Perlet, Baete
was in charge of the European insurance and asset management
sector at McKinsey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  