-- FBI Clears Halliburton Crew in Loss of Radioactive Tool
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-09-14T16:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/halliburton-hunting-for-missing-radioactive-probe-in-west-texas.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL)  crew members who
lost a radioactive rod used in drilling wells in West Texas
weren’t guilty of criminal conduct, the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  said as a hunt for the tool entered a fourth day.  FBI officials working with the Texas Department of
Transportation questioned three employees who were unable to
locate the device this week after it went missing on a 130-mile
(209-kilometer) route from Pecos to Odessa, according to a
Nuclear Regulatory Commission incident report today.  “The FBI would only say that they believed there was no
criminal activity involved with the missing” tool, Halliburton
told state officials according to the NRC report. A well near
Pecos, where the device was last used, has been searched three
times, it said.  A National Guard unit based in Austin sent a three-person
team with detection gear yesterday to assist local officials,
said Amy Cook, a spokeswoman for the Guard. The  Texas  Department
of State Health Services  said  yesterday it requested help to
find the radioactive item, which can pose a health risk if
touched or held for several days.  Halliburton lost the unit on Sept. 11, according to an NRC
report. Pickup trucks with detection gear retraced the route of
a vehicle that carried the device before it was lost. The trucks
drove at 10 miles an hour between Pecos and Odessa without
finding the unit, the report said.  ‘Stay Back’  “It’s not something that produces radiation in an
extremely dangerous form,” Chris Van Deusen, a spokesman for
the health department, said in an interview. “But it’s best for
people to stay back, 20 or 25 feet.”  Oil-field service companies lower the radioactive units
into wells to let workers identify places to break apart rock
for a drilling process known as hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, which frees oil and natural gas. While the loss of
such a probe occurs from time to time, it has been years since a
device with  americium-241/beryllium , the material in
Halliburton’s device, was misplaced in Texas, Van Deusen said.  Loss of such a device hasn’t been reported to the NRC
within at least the past five years, Maureen Conley, an agency
spokeswoman, said in an interview. She said the material would
have to be in someone’s physical possession for several hours
for it to be considered harmful. The agency works with states to
regulate use of radioactive materials.  Smoke Detectors  Americium-241 also is used in smoke detectors, medical
diagnostic devices, aircraft fuel gauges and distance-sensing
tools that use its gamma-radiation properties, according to
information on the Environmental Protection Agency’s website.
The material mostly emits alpha particles, along with some gamma
rays, the EPA said.  Halliburton called the Reeves County sheriff’s office in
Pecos after discovering the item was missing, police sergeant
Jerry Millan said.  “They told us they had lost a radioactive rod,” he said
in an interview. “I’ve worked in the  oil fields , so I knew what
it was. We’ve been assisting with the search.”  The seven-inch stainless-steel cylinder is about an inch in
diameter and marked with the radiation-warning symbol,
Halliburton said in a statement yesterday. The  cylinder  is
marked “do not handle.”  Halliburton told the state that workers discovered on Sept.
11 that a lock on the container used to transport the device was
missing, along with the unit, after driving a truck to a well
south of Odessa from from a site near Pecos, according to the
NRC report. The company is offering a reward and is working with
local  law enforcement , the highway patrol and health officials
in the search, the company said.  “Halliburton is working with authorities to resolve this
matter as quickly as possible,” the company said in its
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  