-- Amazon, Ben & Jerry’s, Costco: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-13T16:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/amazon-ben-jerry-s-costco-intellectual-property.html
Amazon.com Inc., the world’s
largest online retailer, persuaded a federal court in  San
Francisco  to dismiss a suit brought by a patent owner from Menlo
Park, California.  OIP Technologies Inc. sued the Seattle-based retailer March
12, claiming its patent 7,970,713 was infringed. The patent,
which was issued in June 2011, covers a method and apparatus for
automatic pricing in electronic commerce. Although the
application was filed in 2000, it took 11 years for the patent
to be issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  According to court papers, Amazon was in discussions with
OIP’s predecessor in 2001 over acquisition of the company and
the technology covered by the patent. OIP claims that instead of
buying the company or taking a license to the technology, Amazon
interviewed two of the company’s engineers about the technology
and offered each a job.  OIP said in its complaint that the software system Amazon
uses through its website infringed the patent. It asked the
court for money damages to compensate for what it said was
unauthorized use of its technology, together with litigation
costs and attorney fees.  In his Sept. 11 order, U.S. District Judge Edward M. Chen
dismissed OIP’s case. He said that the technology at issue
wasn’t patentable, under U.S. patent law, because it was
“directed toward the abstract idea of price optimization, which
is a fundamental economic principle” that belongs in the public
domain.  The case is OIP Technologies Inc., v.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,
3:12-cv-01233-EMC, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Porn Producer Agrees to Stop Selling ‘Ben & Cherry’s’ Films  The seller of adult films with titles and packages based on
Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Inc. flavors agreed to pull them from the
market.  Rodax Distributors Inc., which does business as Caballero
Video, agreed Nov. 11 to a court order barring it from selling
its “Ben & Cherry’s” series of 10 DVDs with titles including
“Peanut Butter D-Cups” and “Boston Cream Thigh” while a
trademark suit is under way.  The order requires Caballero to recall the DVDs and to
destroy all products, labels and marketing materials that
infringe on Ben & Jerry’s trademarks.  Ben & Jerry’s, a unit of London-based  Unilever NV (UNA) , sued
Caballero in federal court in New York Sept. 5, claiming the
DVDs and packaging violated its trademarks. The packaging
featured images of naked men and women against backgrounds that
copy the design of Ben & Jerry’s ice cream containers such as
grazing cows and fluffy white clouds, the company said in its
complaint.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  issued a temporary
restraining order against Caballero on Sept. 6.  The case is Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Inc. v. Rodax
Distributors Inc., 12-cv-6734, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Costco Sued by Stanley Furniture Over ‘MyHaven’ Trademark  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the membership warehouse chain
based in Issaquah, Washington, was sued for trademark
infringement by a furniture manufacturer.  According to the complaint filed Sept. 10 in federal court
in North Carolina, Stanley Furniture Co. accused Costco of
selling furniture under a “My Haven” label. High Point, North
Carolina-based Stanley says this infringes its “MyHaven” mark
it has used since 2006.  Including in the complaint are photos Stanley says are of
allegedly infringing packaging and furniture sold in Costco
stores. The furniture company claims that the “My Haven”
furniture sold at Costco has “virtually duplicated numerous
non-functional features” of furniture Stanley created.  Customers are confused about the “source, sponsorship,
approval or certification” of the “My Haven” items sold at
Costco, Stanley claims, and are likely to assume falsely that
the North Carolina company is the source.  Stanley said it has suffered harm from Costco’s actions,
and asked the court to bar further infringement, and for awards
of triple the profits realized from the sale of the allegedly
infringing merchandise. Additionally, the North Carolina company
seeks money damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  Costco didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the suit. The warehouse chain’s supplier is co-
defendant with Costco.  The case is  Stanley Furniture Co. (STLY)  v. Whalen Furniture
Manufacturing, 1:12-cv-01007-TRDS-JEP, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of North Carolina.  Deccan Chronicle Puts Up Trademarks as Security in IDBI Loan  Deccan Chronicle Holdings Ltd. (DECH) , a newspaper publisher in
Secunderabad, India, has mortgaged the trademarks of all four of
its publications, the Times of India  reported .  The trademarks as associated with the “Deccan Chronicle,”
“Asian Age,” “Andhra Bhoomi” and the “Financial
Chronicle,” the newspaper reported.  The company entered into the loan agreement that uses the
trademarks for security in March 2011, according to the Times of
India.  The lender, Mumbai-based  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  has the option of
selling the trademarks, within 15 days of a default on a loan
for which the marks are security, the newspaper reported.  Botswanans Dispute Ownership of Zebra Mark Used by Soccer Team  Botswana’s Registrar of Companies held a hearing Sept. 10
in the dispute between the registered owner of the “Zebra”
trademark and the country’s national soccer team, that is
nicknamed “the Zebras,” the MmegiOnline Botswanan news website
 reported .  Tumisang Keitseng, the trademark owner, said she created
the mark to market Botswana for tourism purposes, not to promote
the team, according to MmegiOnline.  The team’s logo was designed by Ludo Kemoeng, who said that
while he permitted Keitseng to use the image on T-shirts and
bandanas, it was created to create solidarity among supporters
of the national team, MmegiOnline reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Disney Claims Cut-Price Kids’ Videos in U.K. Infringe Copyrights  The  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  has accused a British company with
infringing copyrights for several of its animated films by
selling budget DVD’s of films in look-alike packaging, the
U.K.’s Guardian reported.  Among the films Disney says Brightspark Production Ltd. has
infringed are “Tangled,” “The Princess and the Frog,” and
“Cars,” in addition to its latest title, “Brave,” the
newspaper reported.  The cut-price films selling in  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and  J Sainsbuly
Plc (SBRY) ’s supermarkets for about 3 British pounds ($4.83) apiece,
are “for families on a budget,” Brightspark said, and the
Guardian reported.  Brightspark told the Guardian it is in discussion with
Disney and that the companies are seeking a “mutually
acceptable” resolution to the dispute.  “People place great trust in the quality and creativity of
Disney and when it appears that another company is causing
confusion among Disney consumers, we will act to protect
ourselves and the consumer,” Peter Wiley, chief regional
counsel for Disney in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, said
today in an e-mailed statement. “Disney believes that
Brightspark has demonstrated a pattern of misleading consumers
with numerous releases that confuse and undermine the trust
those consumers have in Disney.”  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Akorn Sued by Fera Over Drug Supply Agreement, Trade Secrets  Fera Pharmaceuticals LLC, a provider of anti-infective
ophthalmic medicines, sued business partner  Akorn Inc. (AKRX) , seeking
more than $100 million in damages for contract violations and
misuse of  trade secrets .  Fera alleges Akorn, of Lake Forest, Illinois, in 2009
agreed to make Fera products for seven years, “failed to
perform its duties,” and sought to acquire Locust Valley, New
York-based Fera’s trade secrets and make at least two products
itself, according to papers filed yesterday in New York state
 Supreme Court .  “Akorn’s violation of the Commercial Manufacturing Supply
agreement caused Fera substantial economic harm,” and Akorn
should pay compensatory damages, Fera said in court papers.  Fera seeks a jury trial and unspecified punitive damages.  Akorn’s chief financial officer, Tim Dick, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  The case is Fera Pharmaceuticals LLC v. Akorn Inc.,
653184/2012, New York state Supreme Court, County of New York
(Manhattan).  IP Moves  Obama Names Legal Academic Scott Kieff to Trade Commission  President Barack Obama is nominating F. Scott Kieff to the
U.S. International Trade Commission, the government agency with
the power to exclude products that infringe U.S. patents,
according to a June 10  statement .  Kieff  is presently a professor at George Washington
University and a fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover
Institution, where he directs the Project on Commercializing
Innovation and served on the Property Rights Task Force. He is
also a faculty member at the Munich  Intellectual Property  Law
Center at Germany’s Max Planck Institute, and previously was a
faculty fellow Olin Program on Law and Economics at  Harvard
University .  Additionally he was a professor at the Washington
University in Saint Louis School of Law with a secondary
appointment in the School of Medicine’s Department of
Neurological Surgery.  Kieff was a judicial clerk to Judge Giles S. Rich of the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, the Washington-
based case that hears appeals of patent dispute. Kieff has also
served as a mediator in that court’s appellate mediation
program. Additionally, he was a member of the U.S. Patent and
 Trademark Office ’s Patent Public Advisory Committee from 2009 to
2010.  Before he became a professor, Kieff practiced at Chicago’s
Jenner & Block LLP and at New York’s now defunct Pennie &
Edmonds.  Kieff has an undergraduate degree from the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  and a law degree from the  University of
Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 