-- Arnault’s Childish Decision to Pack His Fashionable Bags
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-13T22:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/arnault-s-childish-decision-to-pack-his-fashionable-bags.html
It’s a shame that  France ’s two most
powerful people, its president and its richest man, were unable
to get beyond populist posturing and recrimination as they
battled over taxes this week. They may have missed a golden
opportunity to find common ground on restoring growth to their
country’s beleaguered economy.  The clash erupted after  Bernard Arnault , the chief
executive officer of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,
acknowledged that he has applied for Belgian citizenship. He
said this was a “personal action” and promised to continue
paying French taxes as before. Even so, the move was seen as a
ploy to avoid -- or at least express disapproval of -- a 75
percent levy on high earners that France’s Socialist government
has included in its 2013 budget.  Whatever his intentions, Arnault hit a nerve. The front
page of Liberation, a national newspaper, splashed a photo-
montage of the billionaire, suitcase in hand, under the headline
“Get Lost, Rich Jerk.” President  Francois Hollande  implied that
the magnate lacked patriotism, saying in a television interview
that Arnault “should have reflected on what it means to ask for
another nationality because we are proud to be French.”  Punitive Taxes  Opposition politicians on the right, meanwhile, have seized
on the Arnault case as evidence that the redistributive policies
and punitive taxes imposed by their Socialist successors were
driving job creators out of the country, and discouraging
foreign investors from coming in.  A much better debate can be had.  France’s economy  is
stalled, and  unemployment  is at a 13-year high. Yet Hollande’s
plan for 30 billion euros ($39 billion) in spending cuts and tax
increases is highly unlikely to achieve his goal of narrowing
the  budget deficit  to 3 percent by the end of 2013 from 4.5
percent this year. Just one-third of the deficit reduction will
be achieved through cutting spending on France’s unsustainably
large public sector and entitlements; the rest would be obtained
by raising taxes in what is already one of the world’s most
heavily taxed countries.  Worse, Hollande has recognized that the 75 percent rate on
earnings of more than 1 million euros is largely symbolic: It
will affect only 2,000 to 3,000 people and won’t raise much
revenue. That lends credence to accusations by Arnault and
others that the levy is designed to pump up the president’s
falling approval ratings by stoking class resentment.  The president needs to rethink his approach. He may have
something to learn about growth and job creation from Arnault,
who over the past 25 years has built his  luxury-goods company 
into one of France’s largest and most profitable enterprises. It
now accounts for more than 5 percent of the Paris stock market
and employs close to 100,000 people in France and  around the
world. It shouldn’t be held against him that along the way he
has acquired a net worth of $25.7 billion, according to
Bloomberg’s Billionaires Index, making him the 15th-richest
person on the planet.  That’s not to say that Arnault has taken the high road to
 Belgium . As we said in May after it was reported that Eduardo
Saverin, a billionaire co-founder of Facebook Inc., had decided
to renounce his U.S. citizenship to become a resident of lightly
taxed  Singapore , those who choose to become tax exiles betray
the countries that enabled their success. In particular, LVMH
owes its success to its close association with French taste and
savoir-faire.  As politically useful as this titillating spat may be for
Hollande, what France really needs is an honest debate about its
economic choices -- a discussion that would ultimately benefit
both Hollande and Arnault by clarifying the respective roles and
responsibilities of government and private enterprise in
France’s recovery. We would be happy to organize a Champagne
summit to break the ice.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Egypt ’s dance around the  U.S.
embassy breach  and on the disingenuousness of last year’s  debt-
ceiling debate ;  Jonathan Alter  on Romney’s  “No Apology” foreign
policy ;  Stephen Carter  on the need for politics to  stop at the
water’s edge ;  Noah Feldman  on  China’s invisible heir apparent ;
Ezra Klein on a  carbon-tax fantasy ; Willie Pesek on  China’s
missing No. 2  man; Jonathan Weil on banks that admit their
 balance sheets  are awful; Alex Marshall on why  capitalism and
government  are friends after all.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  