-- Arsenal Will Offer Manager Wenger New Contract: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-13T06:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/arsenal-will-offer-manager-wenger-new-contract-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Wenger’s Contract  Arsenal will offer manager  Arsene Wenger  a new contract,
the  Daily Mirror reported , citing Gunners Chief Executive
Officer  Ivan Gazidis .  “It’s not a sense of sentimentalism, not a reward for our
services, it’s a belief that we have an incredible manager who
loves this club and is the best man to lead us forward,” the
Mirror cited Gazidis as saying.  Wenger’s current deal worth 7 million pounds ($11.2
million) a year expires in 2014, the newspaper added.  Carroll Recovery  West Ham United striker Andy Carroll may make an earlier-
than-expected return from a hamstring injury next week, the
 Daily Mail reported .  Carroll, who got injured in his West Ham debut 12 days ago,
could play in the Sept. 22 Premier League match against
Sunderland after the club initially feared he would be sidelined
for as many as six weeks, the Mail added.  Reina Rumors  Pepe Reina’s agent denied the Spanish goalkeeper is set to
leave Liverpool after a dip in form,  the Sun reported .  “The team has not started the season well and liability is
falling on him,” the Sun cited Manuel Garcia Quilon as saying
about Reina. “But this will end when he returns to form. He has
four years to run on his contract and rumors of leaving
Liverpool are just that, rumors.”  Handshake Snub  Queens Park Rangers defender Anton Ferdinand is ready to
refuse to shake hands with Chelsea’s John Terry and Ashley Cole
when the teams meet on Sept. 15, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The Premier League is adamant that the traditional pre-
match ritual should go ahead regardless of any tension between
the individuals after Terry was cleared by a magistrate of
racially abusing Ferdinand in October, the newspaper said. Cole
appeared as a character witness for Terry at the trial.  Ferdinand will meet with his advisers and club staff today
before making a final decision, the Telegraph added.  Birmingham Bid  Former QPR Chairman Gianni Paladini said he’s heading a
group which has made a takeover bid for Birmingham City, the
 Independent reported .  “We’ve made an approach,” the Independent cited Paladini
as saying. “Unfortunately, I can’t really say too much because
everything is in the hands of the lawyers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  