-- Maybank, Olam Market U.S. Dollar Debt as Asia Bond Risk Falls
-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-09-13T04:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/asia-pacific-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) , Malaysia’s
biggest lender known as Maybank,  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)  and
 Kasikornbank Pcl (KBANK)  are marketing dollar-denominated debt today as
bond risk in  Asia  declines to a 13-month low.  Maybank is offering 10-year subordinated notes, which can
be bought back by the lender after five years, to yield about
275 basis points more than Treasuries, said a person familiar
with the matter, who asked not to be identified because the
terms aren’t set. Bangkok-based Kasikornbank is marketing 5 1/2-
year securities at a spread of about 250 basis points, while
Olam, the Singapore-based food commodity supplier, may pay about
6 percent for five-year notes, two other people said.  Perceptions of creditworthiness in the region fell for an
eighth day, the longest streak of declines in seven months, amid
speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will announce a third round
of stimulus measures when policy makers meet today. Asia-Pacific
borrowers have sold $15 billion of dollar bonds this month, up
from $2.4 billion in the same part of August, as issuers from
China to Korea and Thailand priced deals.  “Investor appetite for risk has come back in a big way and
that’s been reflected in the response to the large amount of
issuance we’ve seen over the last week,” said Krishna Hegde,
head of Asia credit research at Barclays Plc. “Participants
didn’t expect such a sharp improvement in sentiment and they’re
now more comfortable putting cash to work.”  The cost of insuring the region’s corporate and sovereign
bonds against default decreased, with the Markit iTraxx Asia
index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside Japan falling 1
basis point to 122 basis points as of 8:37 a.m. in  Hong Kong ,
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  prices show. The gauge is poised for its
lowest close since Aug. 2, 2011, CMA prices show.  Dovish Message  U.S. dollar bond sales by companies in the Asia-Pacific
region total $6.6 billion this week and $8.4 billion last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trade & Development Bank of Mongolia LLC is also marketing
a sale of three-year dollar bonds today, a person familiar with
the matter said. The Reg S notes are being offered to investors
to yield about 8.75 percent, the person said.  “The Federal Reserve policy decision tonight is the
immediate focus for markets,” Barclays’ Hegde said. “If the
message is dovish and more asset purchases are announced, that
could improve sentiment further going into next week.”  The Markit iTraxx Australia index dropped 1 to 144 as of
10:05 a.m. in Sydney,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  prices show. The
Markit iTraxx Japan index decreased 6 to 184 as of 9:07 a.m. in
 Tokyo , according to Deutsche Bank AG prices.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite. The
swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  