-- Austria Wants Eastern EU Members to Join Banking Union
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-09-13T13:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/austria-says-eu-should-allow-east-members-to-join-bank-union-1-.html
Austrian bank regulators would like
the new eastern members of the European Union to join the bloc’s
single bank supervisor plan because the region’s financial
industry is dominated by western European lenders.  The European Commission’s plan to put euro-area banks under
a single watchdog should be opened to countries which are not
part of the euro currency, said Helmut Ettl, co-head of the
Finanzmarktaufsicht regulator, and Austrian central bank
Governor Ewald Nowotny at a conference in Vienna today.  “It should be a project that is open,” Ettl said. “It
shouldn’t be limited to the euro group,” he said, adding that
he’d like to be able to “invite the central and eastern
European countries to join the project.”  Austrian banks, including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Bank Austria,
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , which
are supervised by the FMA, or Finanzmarktaufsicht, and the
Austrian central bank, are the biggest lenders in the former
communist part of  Europe . Foreign banks also including Italy’s
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and France’s  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  own three
quarters of the banking assets in the region.  The EU unveiled proposals for euro-area bank oversight this
week that require unprecedented cooperation between the  European
Central Bank  and national regulators. Under the plans, the ECB
should expand its role as financial-system guardian by becoming
the top-level supervisor of every lender in the 17-nation
currency bloc.  ‘Unlike Britain’  EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said
yesterday that the banking union proposals are designed so that
non-euro countries can join if they wish, declining to say which
nations may consider such a move. Poland, Hungary, the Czech and
Slovak Republics, Slovenia, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Bulgaria
and Romania are the former communist countries that joined the
EU in 2004 and 2007. Slovenia, Slovakia and Estonia also use the
euro.  Nowotny said that it was in the countries own interest to
take part in the plan, unlike Great Britain, which opposes it.
“I think this is a sensible proposal, in the interest of the
countries themselves,” he told reporters. “They have such
close links to the rest of Europe that uniformity is beneficial.
It’s different from  Great Britain , for instance.”  Austrian banks’ lending in eastern Europe has irked
investors fretting about possible state bailouts that could put
the country’s budget at risk. The Alpine country implemented new
rules this year that require banks to raise locally the funding
for new lending in eastern Europe, and boost capital levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  