-- Australian Data Overstated Nation’s Mining Boom, RBA Paper Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-13T06:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/australian-data-overstated-nation-s-mining-boom-rba-paper-says.html
Australian government statistics on
business investment plans have overestimated the extent of the
nation’s mining boom since 2010, a central bank research paper
showed.  “Forecasts derived from the capital  expenditure  survey
must be interpreted with a fair degree of caution,” economists
Natasha Cassidy, Emma Doherty and Troy Gill wrote in a report
published today in the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia ’s quarterly
bulletin. They were referring to the quarterly survey data
released by the  Australian Bureau of Statistics .  “If used on their own, the cap-ex expectations data have
tended to overpredict the upswing in mining investment over the
past two years,” the  authors  wrote. “This may be because the
mining projects under way are large and complex in nature --
particularly the projects in the Liquefied Natural Gas sector --
and there have been unanticipated delays in work on these
projects.”  Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  last month predicted
the resource boom has at least another year to run before it
begins to ease. While a pipeline of projects to meet demand for
energy and resources from  China  has fueled Australia’s economy
in recent years, falling commodity prices this quarter and an
elevated currency have prompted the deferral of some projects.  Business investment accounted for about 17 percent of
Australia’s gross domestic product in the first half this year
and is forecast to increase further in the next year, driven by
mining projects, according to the RBA paper.  Investment Plans  Australian companies forecast investment of A$181.5 billion
($190 billion) in the year ending June 30, which was 4.7 percent
higher than their estimate three months earlier, second-quarter
business investment data released Aug. 30 showed.  Mining investment was estimated at A$119 billion, little
changed from A$119.3 billion three months earlier.  A separate paper released in the quarterly bulletin said
Australia is “well placed” to retain its position as the
largest iron-ore supplier to China in coming years, mainly
because of the relatively low cost of extraction in the country.  China’s “residential construction is projected to remain
at a high level for the next couple of decades,” RBA economists
Leon Berkelmans and Hao Wang wrote. “Steel consumption in this
sector is expected to be boosted further by demand for higher
quality buildings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  