-- Bank of Korea Unexpectedly Holds Rates After Stimulus
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-09-13T06:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/bank-of-korea-unexpectedly-holds-rates-after-stimulus.html
The  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly held
borrowing costs in its second surprise decision this year as it
opted to preserve policy room in the event of a deeper slowdown.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board kept the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  at 3 percent after a cut in July, the
central bank said in a statement today in Seoul. The unanimous
stance was predicted by one of 16 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, while the rest forecast a 25 basis point
reduction.  South Korean policy makers face pressure to add stimulus as
Europe’s debt crisis curbs exports, while weighing signs of
resilience such as unemployment at an eight-month low. The
 finance ministry  announced 5.9 trillion won ($5.2 billion) of
spending and tax relief this week and the BOK today said it will
boost its special loan program for small businesses.  “The Bank of  Korea  needs to preserve its policy power
because Europe’s fiscal crisis is a long-term fight,” said Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura International
Ltd. “It also has to manage expectations for the rest of the
year and an interval of three months is more appropriate than
two months after a cut in July.”  The won fell 0.2 percent to 1,128.35 per dollar at 2:44
p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Kospi index of stocks fell 0.6 percent, while South Korea’s
government bonds declined, pushing the three-year yield up by
the most in four weeks.  Support Measures  The central bank meeting follows the government’s Sept. 10
efforts to spur growth ahead of a December election to replace
President  Lee Myung Bak . The measures, which include spending
and tax incentives to encourage the purchase of new cars and
homes, add to 8.5 trillion won of support announced in June.  “Growth momentum, as reflected in domestic economic
activity, appears to be slackening,” the BOK said today in a
statement. The government’s expanded spending is “thought
likely to contribute in some part to preventing any deepening of
the economic downturn.”  The central bank today also said it would provide 1.5
trillion won to help small business owners refinance debt at a
lower  interest rate . The decision to refrain from altering
borrowing costs follows a surprise 25 basis point reduction on
July 12, a move predicted by two of 16 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  at the time.  Against Expectations  “This mismatch is undesirable not only for the market but
also for policy makers,” said Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income
analyst at Taurus Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “It
could bring unwanted consequences.”  South Korea’s gross domestic product rose 2.3 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in
almost three years. Exports fell 6.2 percent in August, the
second straight month of declines in a country where overseas
sales make up about half the economy.  Waning global growth has hit the country’s largest
companies.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  together sold
11 percent more vehicles in the U.S. in August than a year
earlier, less than the 19 percent average gain of five analysts’
estimates.  “It is a very disappointing decision,”  Frances Cheung , a
senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong , said of
the BOK. “I don’t see any strong reason for staying put, with
both domestic and external demand weak while inflation has been
tame.”  The BOK may be pausing to assess the impact of the July
rate cut on the economy, said Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional
economist at Barclays Plc in  Singapore .  Fitch Ratings  upgraded
the country’s rating on Sept. 6, 10 days after a similar move by
Moody’s Investors Service, with both companies citing the
country’s room to respond to shocks.  The Bank of Korea will probably trim its 2012 growth
forecast to 2.7 percent from 3 percent when it releases a review
in October, said Nomura’s Kwon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  