-- BASF Mothership Under Siege as Shale Forces Bock to Fight
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-09-14T08:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/basf-mothership-under-siege-as-shale-forces-bock-to-fight-back.html
BASF SE (BAS)  has spent almost 150 years
expanding its German chemical mothership into an organism the
size of Midtown Manhattan, whose intricate web of pipes and
interlocking plants use every bit of oil and gas brought in.  The so-called Verbund approach is being put to the test.
The boom in U.S. shale gas hands competitors  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) 
and  DuPont Co. (DD)  an 8 percent  profit advantage  because they pay
less for natural gas, estimates Jeremy Redenius, an analyst at
Sanford Bernstein Ltd.  While BASF’s two chemical complexes in the U.S. benefit
from the cheap fuel, the flagship site in Germany’s Rhineland is
under pressure to perform. Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock is
spearheading the response as he evaluates expansion at home and
pushes deeper into higher-margin chemicals. BASF, which consumes
as much gas-generated power as  Denmark , is reviewing the
location for projects, board member Harald Schwager said.  “We really squeeze everything out of every drop of oil,”
Bock said yesterday at an American Chamber of Commerce event in
 Frankfurt . “Shale gas in the U.S. means that we have a
disadvantage in energy. But we will be able to cope with it.”  Shale gas, where water and chemicals are forced underground
to extract gas in a process known as fracking, is heralding a
resurgence in American manufacturing as energy costs fall and
companies can procure raw materials at a cheaper rate, according
to Dow CEO  Andrew Liveris . Dow this year approved a new ethylene
cracker project fueled by local ethane.  ‘Game Changing’  Dow isn’t alone. Chevron Phillips Chemical Co. is spending
$5 billion on a new ethylene plant in  Texas , and two
polyethylene plastic plants. It estimates the industry may spend
$30 billion on factories to take advantage of cheap gas. BASF
itself is adding a 10th furnace to its  Port Arthur , Texas
cracker and a formic acid plant in Geismar,  Louisiana .  Some of the chemical output is being exported to  Asia , with
Huntsman Corp. currently shipping some resins to  China .  “If we look around the world right now, the U.S. continues
to be a market that I probably am most bullish on” from a
manufacturers’ point of view and cheap raw materials,  Huntsman
Corp. (HUN)  CEO Peter Huntsman said Sept. 11. “That’s here to stay.
There’s been a genuine game changing event that’s taken place in
the North American petrochemicals market.”  The U.S. advantage is already showing up in earnings.
BASF’s chemical unit saw  operating profit  decline 35 percent in
the second quarter, weighed down by input costs. Dow paid about
$1 billion less for its feedstock and energy costs in the
period, according to a company presentation. Shale gas and
investments on the U.S. Gulf Coast have the potential to drive
earnings up by about $2 billion a year in 2017, it predicted.  BASF added 2.4 percent to 66.55 euros in Frankfurt trading
as of 10:00 a.m.  Environmental Hurdles  Shale-gas requires millions of gallons of water laced with
acids and other additives, and environmental groups including
Food & Water Watch and Greenpeace have sought bans on fracking
because of concerns surrounding drinking water contamination.  Environmental concerns play a bigger role in  Europe  than in
the U.S., according to Chief Financial Officer Hans-Ulrich Engel. Population density in Europe combined the need to drill
more wells to recover shale gas than with conventional fuel
hamper production.  For BASF, getting energy at competitive prices will be
decisive in coming years, board member Schwager said in an e-
mailed response to questions. Energy is a major part of the cost
for some products, influencing investment decisions, and BASF in
Europe is paying four to five times the amount of competitors in
the U.S., he said.  Dangers Ahead  Even BASF’s Verbund approach to energy at Ludwigshafen
can’t fully compensate, Schwager said. Heat generated by one
plant is transferred for use by a neighboring one, saving 200
million euros ($256 million) a year. BASF’s Wintershall unit
supplies the company with gas, which comes from the  North Sea 
and  Russia , via a pipeline and trading venture with  Gazprom OAO (GAZP) 
known as Wingas. It also makes spot purchases.  The U.S. shale gas advantage has bigger implications than
today’s energy prices, said Oliver Schwarz, a chemicals analyst
at Warburg Research GmbH in Hamburg.  “What will hurt BASF more than the energy component is
that  gas prices  in America could lead to new chemical production
capacity being built up over the next decades,” he said. “The
next generation of assets being built because of gas prices
could certainly become dangerous to BASF.”  BASF’s answer is to pick its battles, investing in higher-
technology materials where it can maintain an advantage and
“pruning of the portfolio” where it can’t, Bock said.  Accelerating the move into service-oriented, higher-margin
specialty products is BASF’s best defense, said Schwarz, who
recommends investors  buy shares  of the German company.  ‘Paradigm Change’  “BASF is going through a paradigm change,” Schwarz said.
“There are rock-hard economic considerations behind it and it’s
the best protection for them. The further they walk up the value
chain, the more value-added steps they add and the higher the
service component is, the less advantage suppliers with cheap
raw materials and energy prices have.”  BASF is still investing in Ludwigshafen. Margret Suckale,
the board member responsible for the site, hosted an opening
ceremony for three new container cranes on Sept. 7. A day
earlier, BASF said it will build a plant to make specialty
zeolites used in diesel catalysts.  Ludwigshafen, with 160 factories and 1,709 miles of
pipelines, last year secured a 1 billion-euro investment in
toluene diisocyanate for polyurethane foams used in car seats.
The plant is scheduled to come on stream at end of next year.  Rhine Beats Desert  “It may have come as a surprise to some people who would
have thought that we would put it in the desert somewhere,”
Bock said at a Sept. 5 briefing in  London . “I can assure you
that all of our calculations have demonstrated that it’s a very
viable cost to do this in  Germany , total cost considered.”  By contrast, BASF is exiting a styrene business and sold a
nitrogen fertilizer asset. It has acquired businesses with 15
billion euros in sales to expand into chemicals for personal
care, food and electronics, and made forays into enzymes and
biotechnology.  Germany’s rejection of nuclear-generated power may add to
BASF’s woes, Bernstein’s Redenius said. The decision to turn off
nuclear plants may cost about 335 billion euros by 2030,
according to a study by the technical university of Berlin.
Energy prices may rise by as much as 30 percent by 2020 for
private customers, according to Tuomo Hatakka, head of Europe at
Swedish utility Vattenfall.  “It’s a double whammy for BASF to the extent it makes the
utility prices go up in Europe compared to the U.S.,” Redenius
said.  Uneven Field  This is not the first time BASF has faced an uneven playing
field. The company shifted its research into genetically
modified plants to  North Carolina  in January after years of
resistance in Germany from the public and lawmakers.  Packing up 160 factories may be hard. Shale gas extraction
in the European country is also running into public acceptance
problems, said Dieter Franke, one of the authors of a study on
the gas in Germany that was commissioned by the government.  “The amount of shale gas means it’s worth thinking hard
about extracting it,” Franke said in a telephone interview on
Sept. 4. “The next step is to have a public discussion on how
much we value domestic extraction. The acceptance is not there
at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  