-- Beef Products Sues ABC News Over ‘Pink Slime’ Reports
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-09-13T15:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/beef-products-inc-sues-abc-over-pink-slime-reports.html
Beef Products Inc. filed a $1.2
billion defamation lawsuit against  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC News
Inc. over reports calling the company’s lean, finely textured
beef product “pink slime.”  Beef Products and two related companies claim the news
network published about 200 “false and disparaging statements”
about a product it says is pure beef, in a complaint filed today
in Elk Point, South Dakota, state court.  “ABC News embarked on a sustained, 30-day vendetta against
this company,” Beef Products attorney Dan Webb said in a
telephone interview today. His client is seeking $1.2 billion in
compensatory damages as well as punitive damages, he said.  The Dakota Dunes, South Dakota-based company has supplied
its product, which is used to reduce the fat content of ground
beef, to  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , Burger King Worldwide Holdings Inc.
and  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)   Declining business the company attributes to sustained ABC
reporting led to the closing of three of Beef Products
facilities and the laying off of about 700 workers, Webb said.  The news organization published a nightly “blacklist” of
grocery stores selling “pink slime,” interfering with BPI’s
business relationships, according to the complaint.  “The lawsuit is without merit,” Jeffrey Schneider, senior
vice president of ABC News, said today in a statement. “We will
contest it vigorously.”  In its statement, ABC News said BPI’s product -- made from
beef trimmings heated and sprayed with an ammonia gas to kill
bacteria -- has been declared safe to eat by the U.S.
Agriculture Department.  The case is Beef Products Inc. v. American Broadcasting
Cos. Inc., CIV#12-292, Circuit Court for the First Judicial
Circuit, Union County,  South Dakota  (Elk Point).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  