-- Best Buy Moves 2,000 Loss-Prevention Workers to Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-09-13T20:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/best-buy-moves-2-000-loss-prevention-workers-to-sales.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY) , trying to reverse
slumping store sales, is reassigning about 2,000 loss-prevention
employees in its U.S. locations to focus on selling customers
more merchandise.  Employees who greeted shoppers entering Best Buy’s big-box
stores and checked receipts when they left will join the ranks
of the company’s blue-shirted sales force, Kelly Groehler, a
spokeswoman for the Richfield, Minnesota-based company, said
yesterday. No workers are being fired, she said.  Chief Executive Officer Hubert Joly, who took over last
week, is seeking to revive sales as customers defect to
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  Comparable-store sales
at Best Buy, the world’s largest consumer-electronics retailer,
have advanced only once in the past nine quarters, hurting
profitability.  “Negative comps and declining  margins  -- you don’t need to
be an expert in anything to know that these are not great
things,” Joly, 53, said in an interview Sept. 6. “There’s a
significant investment in training at the front line.”  Best Buy operated 1,062 big-box stores in the U.S. as of
Aug. 4.  Complaints by customers, as well Best Buy’s attempt to
increase interactions between managers and consumers, led to the
workers’ reassignment, Groehler said in a telephone interview.  “Customers told us they did not like having their receipts
checked when they left the store,” she said. “It puts more
emphasis on assistant managers and the general manager of the
store engaging with customers when they walk in.”  The focus on loss prevention hasn’t diminished, Groehler
said, while declining to elaborate on those efforts.  Wal-Mart Greeters  Wal-Mart earlier this year moved greeters from the
entrances of its stores to near the cash registers to direct
shoppers to products or shorter checkout lines. The world’s
largest retailer also has been seeking to boost sales and profit
margins.  Best Buy’s revenue may decline 2.9 percent to $49.2 billion
in its current fiscal year, the average of 19 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company had increased
annual revenue every year since it started trading on the Nasdaq
Stock Market in 1985, according to Sue Busch, a company
spokeswoman.  Founder Richard Schulze is seeking to take the company
private and reached an agreement with the board last month
allowing him to conduct due diligence and bring a proposal to
the company within 60 days. After stepping down as chairman in
June, Schulze offered on Aug. 6 to take the retailer private at
$24 to $26 a share.  Best Buy fell 1.4 percent to $18.32 at the close in  New
York . The shares have tumbled 22 percent this year, on pace for
the fourth annual decline in five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  