-- Bharara Sees Schemes Grow as White-Collar Unit Turns 50
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-13T22:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/bharara-sees-schemes-grow-as-white-collar-unit-turns-50.html
Manhattan  U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose office has charged 72 people in a nationwide
crackdown on insider trading, said he anticipates more work for
his  securities-fraud  unit, the oldest in the country.  At the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in New York today,
Bharara said the securities-fraud cases his prosecutors and
federal agents are now seeing are more complex than in the past.  The unit, which recently marked 50 years fighting white-
collar crime, brought cases against financier  Ivan Boesky  and
junk-bond king  Michael Milken  in the 1980s. Insider-trading
schemes have grown in scope, said Bharara, 43.  The new breed of securities-fraud defendants “engage in
insider trading on the kind of scale that I don’t think we’ve
seen in public prosecutions that have been brought,” said
Bharara, speaking with Bloomberg News Editor-in-Chief Matt Winkler before a gathering of fund managers and members of the
financial community in New York.  “There were people who were not just committing one-offs
and found out about a tip from an uncle or someone, but people
who actually had as a business model a plan to have multiple
sources at multiple places, and sometimes redundant sources,”
Bharara said.  More than two dozen people have been convicted of
securities fraud tied to convicted Galleon Group LLC  fund
manager   Raj Rajaratnam , who was found guilty last year of being
at the center of what the U.S. said was the largest hedge-fund
insider trading case in the nation’s history. Rajaratnam is
serving an 11-year prison term.  Illegal Tips  The 68 people who have either pleaded guilty or been
convicted at trial by Bharara’s office run the gamut from
company insiders to fund managers who got the illegal tips, he
said. Many of the portfolio managers have multiple, sometimes
overlapping sources of inside information and work in different
states or even in another country, he said.  Those who his office has prosecuted “aren’t just traders
at  hedge funds , but also people who are insiders at companies,
people who are in every different kind of sector and every
different geographical area,” he said.  Bharara said this leads him to conclude that insider
trading is on the rise.  “It’s completely fair to say it’s widespread, if not
rampant,” he said.  ‘Perfect Hedge’  The recent round of prosecutions, which began in late 2009,
is the result of an initiative called “ Perfect Hedge ,” which
was started five years ago by agents with the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  in New York and Bharara’s office.  The office last month won the conviction of Doug Whitman,
the president and founder of Whitman Capital LLC. The fund
manager spent more than two days on the stand telling jurors he
was innocent, while prosecutors summoned cooperating witnesses
and played recorded phone calls and court-authorized wiretaps
that told another story. A federal jury in Manhattan convicted
Whitman after about five hours of deliberations.  This month, Hyung Lim, a former  Altera Corp. (ALTR)  executive from
California, pleaded guilty to passing illegal tips about his
company and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , some which were relayed to a group of
fund managers accused of running an insider-trading “criminal
club.”  Lim’s defense lawyer said his client will testify at the
trial of Anthony Chiasson, a former Level Global Investors LP
co-founder; Jon Horvath, a former technology analyst at SAC
Capital Advisors LP’s Sigma Capital Management LLC; and ex-
Diamondback Capital Management LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman . That trial is scheduled to begin on Oct. 29.  Phone Taps  The use of wiretaps and consensual recordings as evidence
in insider-trading cases may give some people pause, just as it
did when the government deployed such tactics against organized
crime, Bharara said.  “When people have to wonder whether or not  law enforcement 
is listening, and they have to wonder whether or not the person
they’re talking to is wearing a wire, I think that causes people
to think again, not once, but twice, and perhaps three or four
times about engaging in that activity,” Bharara said.  As in the case of Whitman, hearing the words out of a
defendant’s own mouth during a recorded call or wiretap can also
make a jury’s job easier, he said.  “ Insider trading , the offense, is basically a crime of
communication,” he said. “It doesn’t take a rocket scientist
to appreciate that if you actually have the communication,
you’re more able to prove the conduct.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  