-- Big Warhol Show Celebrates Kitsch, Bores, Dummies: Review
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-09-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/big-warhol-show-celebrates-kitsch-bores-dummies-review.html
The new Fall season is officially
under way and the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art’s full-tilt paean
to Pop art, “Regarding Warhol: Sixty Artists, Fifty Years,”
opening to the public on Sept. 18, is the surefire blockbuster.  I suggest you skip it.  This cramped, predictable, ho-hum exhibition comprises 45
works by  Andy Warhol , including Brillo boxes, the “Piss”
painting, Campbell’s Soup Can and portraits of Marilyn, Jackie,
Elvis, Mao and the  Mona Lisa .  These iconic Warhols are shown alongside 100 artworks by
his followers -- everyone from Robert Gober, Barbara Kruger and Bruce Nauman to  Damien Hirst ,  Cindy Sherman  and Ryan Trecartin.
Yet the show is not really significant for what it says about
Warhol or his influence.  Beginning with the Met’s commanding banner on Fifth Avenue,
moving through its Great Hall dominated by two large Warhol
flower paintings, and on through the show and gift shop,
“Regarding Warhol” announces a new era at the Met.  Ever since Philippe de Montebello retired as the Met’s
director in 2008, many of us have wondered where the museum
would be taken by its new director, Thomas P. Campbell (no
connection to the Campbell Soup Company, which is a sponsor of
the show and launched a series of Warhol-inspired cans at a Met
luncheon).  Now we know.  Power Play  The show is a celebration of the artist as opportunist and
of art as appropriation. With its lame contemporary portrait
paintings, store-bought vacuum cleaners, text-based works,
ceramic “Michael Jackson and Bubbles” (1988) and bundled stacks of
newspapers, “Regarding Warhol” is not so much an exhibition as
it is a power play -- a paradigm shift.  Despite its consumer-chic installation and up-to-the-minute
art including videos, “Regarding Warhol” feels embarrassingly
provincial and out-of-touch.  A rehashing of decades-old received wisdom, it offers
little insight or new information. That is, unless you didn’t
already know that  Takashi Murakami  is the “Japanese Warhol,” and
that reality TV is the most recent incarnation of Warhol’s “15
minutes of fame.”  The key to “Regarding Warhol” is  Jeff Koons ’s polychrome-
wood sculpture, “Ushering in Banality” (1988). The presence of
these cute cherubs pushing a stubborn pig signals that the Met
has finally succumbed to kitsch.  ‘Shangri-La’  Among the shows I can recommend is “Doris Duke’s Shangri-
La: Architecture, Landscape and Islamic Art” at the Museum of
Arts and Design.  No exhibition can replicate the experience of architecture
in situ. But MAD’s concentrated, opulent show -- Columbus Circle
meets the  Taj Mahal  -- gets close to immersing viewers in the
magnificent, eclectic Duke residence in Honolulu.  Including architectural drawings, lamps, glassware,
textiles, jewelry and ceramics, it surrounds us with elaborately
inlaid ivory and wood furniture, screens and doors.  These are all interspersed with lush, large-scale
photographs -- shelter porn by Tim Street-Porter -- that bring the
place and objects d’art to life.  ‘Toxic Beauty’  Another worthwhile show is “Toxic Beauty: The Art of Frank
Moore,” at  New York  University’s Grey Art Gallery and Fales Library,
where the activist/artist who died of AIDS in 2002 is being
honored with his first retrospective.  Moore made entertaining videos, installations and surreal,
highly detailed narrative paintings.  One depicts tiny buffalo roaming across an unmade bed, as
barren as frozen tundra. Another shows a security guard tied
down like Gulliver to a beach strewn with sex toys and drugs and
populated by inquisitive, gay Lilliputians.  Inspired by Bosch,  Norman Rockwell  and  Frida Kahlo , Moore
embeds fake eyeballs in the surfaces of his illustrative,
finicky paintings, whose atypical frames are often made of
lamps, books, maps, deer antlers, branches, drugs and copper
pipe.  The show, which also includes autobiographical ephemera,
gives us a sense of a complete personality.  Unconvincing as a painter and dealing primarily in oddball,
ham-fisted cliches, Moore is compelling as storyteller, activist
and a crank.  “Regarding Warhol: Sixty Artists, Fifty Years” runs Sept.
18 through Dec. 31 at the  Metropolitan Museum of Art , 1000 Fifth
Ave. Information: +1-212-535-7710;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  “Doris Duke’s Shangri-La: Architecture, Landscape and
Islamic Art” runs through Feb. 17 at the Museum of Arts and
Design, 2 Columbus Circle. Information: +1-212-299-7777;
 http://www.madmuseum.org .  “Toxic Beauty: The Art of Frank Moore” runs through Dec. 8
at two NYU locations: Grey Art Gallery, 100 Washington Square East.
Information: +1-212-998-6780;  http://www.nyu.edu/greyart ;  and
at Fales Library, Tracey/Barry Gallery, Elmer Holmes Bobst Library, 70 Washington
Square South. Information: +1-212-998-2596;
 http://www.nyu./library/bobst/research/fales .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and Philip
Boroff on  Broadway .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 