-- Billionaire Batista Wins as MMX Profits From Port Delay: Freight
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-09-13T15:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/billionaire-batista-wins-as-mmx-profits-from-port-delay-freight.html
Rio de Janeiro ’s port authority
said in August 2011 that it expected to publish the bidding
rules for a new iron-ore terminal in weeks. The subsequent delay
is benefiting  Brazil ’s richest man.  The roadblocks to building the Area do Meio terminal at the
Port of Itaguai will boost  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3) , the
mining company of billionaire  Eike Batista , which is readying
its own terminal in the same location. Scheduled to start up in
the second quarter of 2013, it will be the only new port for
miners in the region for as many as five years, according to
Alan Glezer, an equity analyst at Banco Bradesco BBI SA.  “In a scenario of scarce port assets, the MMX port is very
valuable,” Glezer said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo . The
port “is the main catalyst for the MMX shares because it means
at least doubling the selling price of the company’s ore by
having access to the international market.”  The delay in building Area do Meio occurs as Brazil tries
to accelerate infrastructure spending following years of
underinvestment. President  Dilma Rousseff  will soon announce
plans to auction concessions to operate 15 ports and build
others as part of an effort to attract 50 billion reais ($24.8
billion) of investment, a government official familiar with the
plan said last month. In August, Brazil announced a road and
rail program that seeks to lure as much as $66 billion in
investment over 30 years.  MMX’s  Sudeste  terminal will allow the producer to tap
demand from  Asia , where iron ore prices are higher than in the
Brazilian market. The company, which is spending 2.4 billion
reais to build Sudeste, will also benefit by selling port access
to rival mining firms, including  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais SA , the Brazilian steelmaker known as Usiminas that is
boosting its  iron-ore  output by 50 percent this year.  Notes Rally  While  shares  in MMX have fallen 17 percent in Sao Paulo
this year through yesterday, the notes linked to future
royalties from Sudeste that the company issued in 2011 when it
bought the project  have gained  16 percent. That beat all of
Batista’s six publicly traded companies. The four analysts
covering the notes recommend investors buy the securities,
according to Bloomberg  data .  MMX  dropped  0.5 percent to 5.48 reais at 12:02 p.m. in Sao
Paulo. The notes linked to Sudeste  gained  1.2 percent to 3.34
reais.  The Rio state government has been trying to lease Area do
Meio since 2005. The delay in issuing the rules means the
auction of the project isn’t expected until next year, said
 Adriano Pires , head of Rio consulting firm Brazilian Center for
Infrastructure, or CBIE.  Transport Costs  After years of underinvestment, Brazil ranked 121 out of
183 countries for ease of trading across borders in the  World
Bank ’s “Doing Business 2012”  survey . It declined five places
in relation to last year’s ranking and is in between Cambodia
and  Syria .  At $2,215 per container, Brazilian  export shipping costs 
are 76 percent higher than the average across  Latin America  and
the Caribbean and 115 percent more than the average of
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development countries,
according to the World Bank’s survey. The costs rose 252 percent
in the past six years from $630 per container in 2006.  Setting up a new port in Brazil may take as many as 10
years including a learning curve of two years after starting
operations, said Peter Wanke, professor of logistics at the
COPPEAD business school at the Federal University of Rio de
Janeiro, adding that private terminals may be quicker.  “That’s the typical delay from all the bureaucratic
deadlocks, licenses and approvals needed here for things to
work,” he said in a telephone interview. “It’s a critical
situation, there is a collapse in capacity.”  Area do Meio  Cia. Docas do Rio de Janeiro , Rio’s port authority, said
last year that it expected to announce in September 2011 the
bidding rules to lease the Area do Meio to a private dry-bulk
operator to move 25 million metric tons a year, with capacity to
expand to 44 million tons. The lease would last 25 years with an
option to renew for 25 more, Docas President Jorge Luiz de Mello
said at the time. The investment required in the project was
estimated at 1.5 billion reais.  Docas says now that it expects to publish the auction rules
in the “short term” after the lease received initial approval
by Brazil’s National Accounts Tribunal. The winner of the
auction is expected to be announced this year, a Docas press
official said by telephone.  A TCU spokeswoman in Brasilia said the auction received
initial approval from the Tribunal on Aug. 29 and that the start
of the bidding process wasn’t dependent on its review.  “The Area do Meio delays end up benefiting Eike,” CBIE’s
Pires said. “He can speed up the sale of its own capacity.”  Starting Up  The press office of  EBX Group Co. (OSXB3) , the Rio-based holding
company for most of Batista’s assets, referred questions to MMX.
MMX’s press office said the company will open up one of four
loading facilities at its own terminal in the second quarter of
next year, with the second coming online later that year,
according to an e-mailed reply to questions.  Batista late yesterday suspended a plan to pay as much as
618.7 million reais ($305.4 million) to delist his unit LLX
Logistica, which is developing a separate port in northern Rio
de Janeiro state, after an evaluation indicated he would have to
spend more than double what he initially expected.  MMX already has an  agreement  with Usiminas to export iron
ore through the Sudeste port for five years. Usiminas can extend
the deal for as many as five more years and will pay $12.63 per
metric ton shipped, MMX said last year. The company is also
advancing plans to duplicate its capacity at Sudeste to 100
million metric tons per year.  ‘Sweet Spot’  The startup of Sudeste may reduce pressure on Batista, who
has seen his net worth reduced after missing production and
reserves targets at his oil unit OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA. The billionaire’s wealth, which peaked at
$34.5 billion on March 27, was trimmed to $22 billion yesterday,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  daily ranking.  The delivery of projects such as Sudeste will allow Batista
to appease some of the investors who recently lost faith in his
companies, said Laurence Balter, who oversees $100 million for
Fox Island, Washington-based Oracle Investment Research.  “MMX is in the sweet spot to deliver on the Chinese
growth,” he said in e-mailed comments. “Being able to ramp up
operations at the port would give Brazil another leg up on the
iron-ore seaborne market competition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 