-- Blinder Says Fed’s Decision to Ease Was ‘Terrific’
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-09-13T21:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/blinder-says-fed-s-decision-to-ease-was-terrific-.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s decision
today to undertake a new round of quantitative easing to bolster
U.S. economic growth was “terrific” said  Alan Blinder , former
vice chairman of the Fed.  “Unemployment is miles above where it should be,”
Blinder, a Princeton University economist, said at the Bloomberg
Markets 50 Summit in New York. “The Fed would be violating its
responsibility under the law not to be trying to push the
 unemployment rate  lower, even though nothing it can do can push
it a full percentage point lower. It doesn’t have that kind of
weaponry.”  The Fed today said it will expand its holdings of long-term
securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month, embarking on a third round of large-scale asset
purchases to reduce  unemployment . The central bank also said it
will probably maintain near-zero rates through at least mid-
2015, compared with an earlier expectation of late 2014.  Speaking at the same panel today,  Kevin Warsh , a former Fed
governor and now a lecturer at the  Stanford University  Graduate
School of Business in Stanford, California, said he wouldn’t
have favored the central bank’s “exceptionally aggressive”
decision and that officials risk “over-promising and under-
delivering.”  ‘Lousy Recovery’  “There’s preciously little the Federal Reserve can do,”
Warsh said. “We’re just in a lousy recovery.”  John Taylor , a professor at Stanford University and an
adviser to Republican Mitt Romney, added that monetary policy
has become counterproductive by becoming “one of the elements
of uncertainty” and has gone beyond its traditional mission.  Allan Meltzer , a professor at Carnegie Mellon University,
also criticized the central bank’s decision to buy more bonds,
comparing it to the “many, many errors” that the Fed has made
in the past.  “This is beginning to accumulate to be one of the worst”
errors in the institution’s history, Meltzer said. “It’s very
bad in my opinion because the Fed does not have a monetary
problem. The country does not have a monetary problem. The
country has some real problems.” The economy is not going to be
much affected by the Fed’s actions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  