-- LLX Logistica Slumps After Batista Ends Planned Buyout
-- B y   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-09-13T15:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/brazil-s-billionaire-batista-cancels-plan-to-delist-llx.html
LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) ,  Eike Batista ’s
port-development company, dropped the most in 13 months after
the Brazilian billionaire said he won’t spend as much as 618.7
million reais ($305.3 million) to take the company private.  LLX  declined  7.3 percent to 2.94 reais at 12:07 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo , after falling as much as 13 percent, the biggest intraday
drop since Aug. 8, 2011. The stock, which has fallen 13 percent
this year, was the worst performer on the Brazilian benchmark
Bovespa  index  today.  Batista, who owns 54 percent of LLX’s stock, offered to buy
the company for as much as 3.13 reais a share on July 30. LLX
said late yesterday that the billionaire suspended his plan
after Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch, selected by
minority shareholders to analyze the proposed deal, concluded
Batista would have to pay 6.94 reais to 7.63 reais a share for
the Rio de Janeiro-based company.  “The market is reacting badly because he removed the
offer,” Rogerio Freitas, a partner at hedge fund Teorica
Investimentos, said in a telephone interview from  Rio de
Janeiro . “Investors are not looking now at value.”  Batista, who controls six publicly traded companies, owns
372 million shares of LLX, which is building the Acu port in Rio
de Janeiro state. The next largest shareholder is the  Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan , which holds a 17.9 percent stake,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Ontario Teachers’ had
agreed to boost its stake in the company through the Batista
offer.  Batista, 55, has seen his wealth dwindle this year after
investors were disappointed by production and reserve estimates
at oil producer OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, his biggest
holding. Batista’s holdings are worth $22 billion, making him
the world’s 24th richest person, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index  daily ranking.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helder Marinho in em São Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net  