-- British Ponzi Victim Payouts Lost on Fish, Ferraris
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-09-14T14:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/british-ponzi-victim-payouts-lost-on-fish-ferraris.html
Police searched  Kevin Foster ’s home
in 2004, looking for signs of a criminal lifestyle -- fast cars
or piles of cash. What they found, at the end of a narrow
country lane in rural  England , was a private zoo complete with
miniature railway.  “There were wallabies, llamas, goats, sheep, and very
expensive Koi carp,” according to Nedim Ailyan, the bankruptcy
trustee appointed to sell off Foster’s assets.  Foster was convicted and jailed in 2010 for running a 34
million-pound ($55 million) Ponzi scheme, using money from new
investors to pay off old ones. Two years later his victims, who
haven’t been paid back, are left wondering where the money went.  Fraud and financial crime will cost the U.K. economy about
73 billion pounds this year, according to government  estimates .
Prosecutors trying to recover illicit gains and anything bought
with them face a process often more difficult than convicting
the culprits. Anything lawyers, regulators and investigators
recover, after fees, goes back to victims or the government. But
Ponzi schemers and inside traders hide money overseas, buy hard-
to-trace assets or, like Foster, spend it living in luxury.  “For criminal authorities, it is very often impossible”
to recover illegal profits, said Shaul  Brazil , a London-based
defense lawyer who represents white-collar criminals. “It’s a
natural consequence of the actions of people who are determined
to put their assets out of reach.”  Receivers, Prison  One way to seize ill-gotten gains is for courts to issue
confiscation or compensation orders, which force offenders to
sell assets to repay victims. If they refuse, the court can
appoint a receiver to do it and order more prison time.  Christian Littlewood and his wife Angie were handed a 1.6
million-pound confiscation order by a London judge last month,
after being convicted of  insider trading  following a U.K.
Financial Services Authority investigation. Littlewood, a former
Dresdner Kleinwort banker who passed confidential information to
his wife, must come up with the money within six months or face
a doubling of his three-year jail sentence.  Rick Shearman, Littlewood’s lawyer, declined to comment.  The  Serious Fraud Office  won about 40 million pounds in
confiscation orders between April 2008 and April of this year,
according to its records. It recovered about 11.2 million
pounds, or 28 percent of what judges ask for, from those orders.
The FSA, which fared better in part because it brings fewer
cases with smaller sums involved, got back about 99 percent of
the 1.8 million pounds of confiscation orders made in its cases
between 2009 and 2011, according to its figures.  Rich Villains  Dick Gould, head of the SFO’s proceeds of crime unit, has
made it his life’s work to take money from lawbreakers.  “I love the work,” he said, in an interview at the
agency’s  London  offices. “Rich villain becomes poor villain. It
doesn’t get any better than that.”  The SFO doesn’t often seize cars or homes, Gould said,
because confiscation orders leave it to offenders to repay
victims. His unit steps in when they don’t cooperate.  The job is especially tough when money is stashed in
offshore companies or banks. Prosecutors must find the assets,
then persuade local authorities they are illegal. And under
international law, a foreign government can keep what it finds
and doesn’t have to return cash to the U.K., Gould said.  “You can do in an hour what might take me three or four
years to catch up with,” Gould said. Still, his team of seven
lawyers and 10 investigators have had successes.  In January, the SFO returned about 1.1 million pounds to
victims of Philip Bates, who conned insurers into paying
commissions on fake policies. Bates, jailed in 2008, had moved
about 1.5 million pounds to  Monaco , Gould said. The SFO
convinced Monaco to freeze and confiscate the funds and send
most of it to the U.K.  Northern Cyprus  Harry Travers, a lawyer who represented Bates, and his
wife’s lawyer Judith Seddon both said they no longer acted for
the couple and didn’t know how to contact them.  Other cases aren’t as straightforward. Because the U.K.
doesn’t recognize  Northern Cyprus  as a country, there are no
legal means to trace or seize assets there, Gould said. For that
reason, it’s a destination for fugitives including Polly Peck
International Plc founder  Asil Nadir , jailed last month for
stealing about 29 million pounds from the company.  Prosecutors plan ask the court for a compensation order
against Nadir, Gould said.  The SFO’s interest in Kevin Foster and his zoo ended when
he went to prison in 2010 for his sports-betting fraud. It
didn’t end for his victims or Ailyan, the bankruptcy trustee
tasked with turning Foster’s possessions into cash.  Rich, Unique  Foster wanted to be “considered truly rich and unique,”
Ailyan said during an interview at his office near London. “He
loved the limelight.”  While a barn full of collectible toys that Foster paid
about a million pounds for turned out only to be worth about
10,000 pounds at auction,  Ailyan  and his lawyers have found
about 1.2 million pounds in various bank accounts.  Foster also had a Ferrari that he sold during the
investigation to cover living expenses. The property adjoining
the zoo was sold to his wife for 500,000 pounds. The total
recovery didn’t even cover Ailyan’s fees, leaving him about a
million pounds out-of-pocket, and nothing for victims.  Stephen Gilchrist, a lawyer who represented Foster, wasn’t
able to contact him or his wife. Gilchrist said Foster’s theft
charge was thrown out, leaving convictions for running an
unauthorized investment plan and material concealment of facts.  Lost Zoo  “My understanding is that the vast bulk of incoming funds
were either paid back” to investors or lost when Foster himself
invested in a  Ponzi scheme , Gilchrist said.  Ailyan confirmed Foster lost millions when he fell victim
to other fraudsters. As for the animals, they were too costly
and difficult for the trustee to maintain, so he sold them to
Foster’s wife for a nominal fee.  The house was later repossessed and Foster’s wife moved out
in 2011, according to estate agent Philip Jarvis, who sold the
property earlier this year.  When he last visited there was no trace of a zoo, he said
in a phone interview. “The animals have long gone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  