-- Burberry Lags Luxury Peers as Buyers Won’t Pay for Plaid
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-09-13T22:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/burberry-lags-luxury-peers-as-buyers-won-t-pay-for-plaid.html
On an excursion to  London ’s Bond
Street fashion shops, Shona Findlay peeked in the windows of
 Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) ’s flagship store but ended up spending 1,000
pounds ($1,610) on a handbag from Louis Vuitton.  “There are a few nice things, but it’s not a brand I lust
after,” the 23-year-old from  Singapore  said of the products on
display at Burberry.  The U.K.’s largest luxury house won customers in the first
half of the last decade by plastering its camel, red and black
check on everything from baseball caps to dog collars. Now, as
Burberry attempts to move upmarket with products such as 195-
pound t-shirts, 1,795-pound floral print dresses, and  6,000-
pound alligator clutches , it’s failing to excite the biggest
spenders.  “With other luxury brands such as Chanel, Prada,  Louis
Vuitton , Gucci etcetera, what you are buying is a real point of
difference,” said Jane Kellock of researcher  Stylus  in London.
At Burberry, “the range just doesn’t justify the prices.”  Burberry, which on Monday shows its spring/summer 2013
runway collection in the British capital, said this week that
profit for the year ending in March will  disappoint  investors.
The company said same-store sales have fallen in recent weeks,
sending the shares down the most ever and  erasing  1.27 billion
pounds in market value.  Spending Slump  The company partly blamed its woes on an industry-wide
slump in spending, saying store visits have been down since the
end of August. Burberry, though, may be an outlier in an
industry that has expanded 25 percent since 2009, according to
Bain & Co. Burberry’s sales have failed to meet analysts’
estimates for the past two quarters while rivals such as  Hermes
International (RMS)  SCA and Prada SpA have easily exceeded them.  To nudge its image upscale and steer customers toward more
expensive merchandise, the 156-year-old company eliminated its
cheapest handbags and trenchcoats in the U.S. earlier this year.
Chief Financial Officer Stacey Cartwright said the move
contributed “disproportionately” to the company’s slowdown as
economies across the globe cool.  ‘Affordable Luxury’  Former Chief Executive Officer Rose Marie Bravo, who joined
in 1997 from  Saks Fifth Avenue , transformed the British maker of
raincoats and umbrellas by broadening its offerings and staging
fashion shows. She reignited demand for the Burberry plaid by
trying new colors and putting the pattern on scores of products.
Bravo set prices slightly below those of rivals, dubbing
Burberry “affordable luxury.” On Bravo’s watch, profit rose
more than fourfold by 2005.  The shift took its toll on the brand, which developed a
reputation for attracting young British soccer fans who would
pair Burberry print baseball caps with  track suits . In 2004,
pubs and clubs across the country banned customers who donned
the label. Bravo limited the use of the pattern and in July 2006
stepped down.  Her successor, former Liz Claiborne Inc. executive Angela Ahrendts, raised prices, pushed into new markets such as  Africa ,
and expanded Burberry’s non-apparel business. Ahrendts also led
the luxury industry into the digital age, streaming Burberry’s
fashion shows live on its website.  The company’s stock has more than doubled since Ahrendts’s
appointment, outpacing the 59 percent jump in  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  stock and the 24 percent advance in Gucci-owner
 PPR (PP)  SA in that time.  Too Expensive  Now, Burberry faces a dilemma. Many consumers who love it
can’t afford to pay full price for the company’s coats,
clothing, and bags. Others, like Findlay, could afford it but
aren’t moved enough by it to actually lay down their cash.  “It’s a really cool brand,” said Iris Jiang, a 23-year-
old student from  China . “It’s too expensive for me.” Jiang
instead recently spent 80 pounds on a sweater for her mother
from a Burberry discount store.  Uché Okonkwo, executive director of Paris-based consultant
 Luxe Corp. , says it’s understandable that Burberry’s sales are
flagging: Getting rid of so-called mass luxury products in favor
of higher quality items necessarily leads to client turnover.  “Changes in brand positioning usually take a couple of
seasons for consumers to adjust,” Okonkwo said, who predicts
that the move will eventually help widen profit margins. “You
can’t sell everything to everybody.”  Nonetheless, Burberry’s earnings may suffer in the short
term if the company is forced to slash prices to clear
inventory.  “People are waiting for things to go on markdown
generally,” said Sue Evans, Senior Catwalk Editor at fashion
forecaster  WGSN  in London. “There’s got to come a point where
the customer who is buying Burberry is waiting for that as well.
They’ll go to a markdown discount outlet rather than pay full
price on Regent Street.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  