-- Jim Calhoun Retires as UConn Coach After 26 Years, Three Titles
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-14T04:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/calhoun-to-retire-as-connecticut-basketball-coach-ap-reports.html
Jim Calhoun  has retired after 26
years as men’s basketball coach at the  University of Connecticut ,
where he won three national championships and built one of the
most successful programs in college sports over 26 years.  Calhoun, 70, is one of eight Division I coaches in history
with more than 800 victories and had a 625-243 record since
arriving at the Storrs,  Connecticut , campus in 1986. He’s
averaged more than 24 wins a year at a school that before his
arrival had only two 23-win seasons.  In 2011, Calhoun became the fifth men’s coach in college
basketball history to win three or more national titles, joining
 John Wooden  (10), Adolph Rupp (4),  Mike Krzyzewski  (4) and  Bob Knight  (3). Calhoun, who also won championships at UConn in 1999
and 2004, was inducted into the  Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame 
in 2005 and the following year was a member of the founding
class of the National Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame.  “I feel so blessed today that I’ve had the opportunity to
coach at UConn,” Calhoun said at a news conference yesterday.
“It’s never been about me. I’ve just been the focal point.”  Calhoun has missed games for health reasons in three of the
past four seasons and has also had recent problems with the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association , which suspended him
three games at the start of last season for recruiting
violations. UConn is ineligible for this season’s NCAA
tournament and  Big East Conference  league championship for
failing to meet required academic standards.  Health Problems  Calhoun had surgery last month on a hip he fractured in a
cycling accident. He missed eight games last season to have back
surgery in February to remove a disk fragment that had been
pressing on a spinal nerve. In January 2010, he took a seven-
game leave for an undisclosed illness.  Calhoun had his cancerous prostate removed in 2003 and was
treated for a second skin cancer in 2008.  “I always said that I would know when it was time,
whenever that might be,” Calhoun said. “The hip injury really
didn’t enter into the decision, except that it gave me more time
to think about it and the more I thought about it, the more I
became convinced that this was the right time to move on to the
next phase of my life.”  Assistant coach Kevin Ollie will replace Calhoun for the
2012-13 season and said he’s “honored and humbled.”  “I cannot put into words how grateful I am to coach Jim
Calhoun,” Ollie said. “Coach Calhoun brought me here to
Connecticut right out of high school and has mentored me into
the person I have become today.”  Former Captain  Ollie, 39, was a two-time team captain under Calhoun at
UConn, graduating from the university in 1995, and has spent the
past two seasons as an assistant with the Huskies after a 13-
year career in the  National Basketball Association .  “We’re going to have bumps in the road,” Calhoun said.
“We’ve had them in the past. But we’re 16 months removed from a
national championship. We’re going forward. So many things are
in place for us to go even farther than we have already.”  Calhoun will remain affiliated with the program as a
special assistant to Athletic Director Warde Manuel, helping
specifically with fundraising.  Before joining Connecticut, Calhoun, who was born in the
Boston suburb of Braintree,  Massachusetts , spent 14 years at
 Northeastern University . He went 248-137, spearheading the
school’s climb to Division I status from Division II and making
five NCAA tournament appearances.  Program Builder  After going 9-19 in his first season at UConn in 1986-87,
Calhoun’s teams made a postseason tournament in 24 of the next
25 years. The Huskies won 30 or more games eight times under
Calhoun, with 10  Big East  regular-season championships and seven
conference tournament titles.  Peter F. Burns Jr., author of “Shock the World: UConn
Basketball in the Calhoun Era,” said Calhoun is the best
program builder in the sport’s history as well as the premiere
coach of his generation.  “In 26 years, Jim Calhoun changed a college basketball
program, a university, a state, and college basketball,” Burns
said in an e-mail. “UConn is the best power ever produced by
the Big East. UConn basketball sparked state legislators’
interest in the university, which led to billion dollar
investments in UConn; the team’s success led to academic
improvements to UConn as well.”  Calhoun’s 2011 title, which made him at 68 the oldest coach
to win a championship, wasn’t without controversy.  NCAA Violations  Less than two months before Connecticut beat  Butler
University  in the title game, Calhoun received a three-game ban
from the NCAA for failing to monitor recruiting violations that
included more than $6,000 in improper benefits given to a former
player. The coach was forced to sit out the Huskies’ first three
Big East games last season, when the Huskies went 20-14 and lost
in the first round of the NCAA tournament.  Calhoun in 2010 agreed to a five-year contract worth $13
million that made him Connecticut’s highest-paid state employee.
He received $2.7 million for the 2011-12 season, including
$375,000 in base salary and $2.33 million in speaking and media
fees, according to the university. Calhoun was set to earn $3
million in each of the final two years of the contract, which
ran through the 2013-14 season.  Ollie will have a salary of $625,000 this season, which
will give Calhoun and Manuel a chance to evaluate his debut as a
head coach. Manuel said while it’s a short-term challenge, he
has a “long-term vision” for Ollie.  “My first six years in the NBA, I didn’t have any
guaranteed contract. So this is easy,” Ollie said. “This six
months is going to be a great six months in the UConn basketball
history and I’m going to make sure of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  