-- Canadian Dollar Rises to 13-Month High as Fed Adds Stimulus
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-09-13T21:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/canadian-dollar-rises-to-13-month-high-as-fed-adds-stimulus.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened to a
13-month high versus its U.S. counterpart after the  Federal
Reserve  announced a third round of stimulus measures to spur
economic growth in the nation’s largest trading partner.  The currency gained against 13 its 16 most-traded
counterparts as the Fed said it will expand its holdings of
long-term securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of
mortgage debt a month, expanded its guidance on interest rates
into 2015 and pledged to keep monetary policy accommodative even
when the economy strengthens. The debt purchases raised concern
that the money added to the  U.S. economy  will erode the value of
the greenback.  “Number one, they are going to purchase more securities,
and those purchases have been flagged as open ended for the time
being -- markets are going to look at that as a positive for
risk,”  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed income
and currency strategy in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada, said
in a telephone interview. “More risk means currencies like
Canada’s, which is closely tied to commodities, will benefit.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose 0.8 percent to 96.85 cents
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched 96.65 cents,
the strongest level since August 2011. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0325.  Government bonds  rose. The benchmark  10-year yield  fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.88 percent.
Two-year note yields dropped three basis points to 1.17 percent.  U.S. stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
above its highest close in five years. The  S&P 500  gained 1.6
percent.  Commodities Rally  Commodity-linked currencies were bolstered as investors
placed bullish bets on growth. The dollars of Australia and  New
Zealand , commodities exporters like Canada, both gained against
the greenback. The Aussie appreciated 0.8 percent to $1.0547 and
the kiwi, as New Zealand’s dollar is known, rose 1.2 percent to
83.10 U.S. cents.  Gold and oil, both Canadian exports, climbed. The metal
rose to the highest level in more than six months as gold
futures for December delivery rose 2.2 percent to settle at
$1769.70 on the Comex in  New York , the highest since Feb. 29.
Crude futures advanced the most since May.  “The longer that the U.S. keeps their  interest rates  low,  “The longer that the U.S. keeps their interest rates low,
especially since commodities are priced in U.S. dollars, the
longer we’ll see a rally in commodities and commodity-based
currencies,” Tim Gardiner, managing director of commodities at
Toronto-Dominion Securities, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in New York at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  