-- Canada Second Quarter Capacity Utilization Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-09-13T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/canada-second-quarter-capacity-utilization-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s capacity utilization report for the second quarter
released by  Statistics Canada .  Canadian industries operated at 81.0% of their production
capacity in the second quarter, up 0.5 percentage points from
the previous quarter. The manufacturing and non-manufacturing
sectors made comparable contributions to the increase.  The advance in the second quarter follows gains of 0.3
percentage points in the fourth quarter of 2011 and 0.2
percentage points in the first quarter of 2012.  Manufacturing up: Major contribution from the transportation
equipment and machinery industries  Capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector increased
0.5 percentage points to 81.6%.  As in the three previous quarters, the strength of the
transportation equipment and machinery industries contributed
significantly to the growth in capacity utilization of
manufacturing industries as a whole in the second quarter.  The capacity utilization rate was up in 11 of the 21 major
manufacturing industries in the second quarter.  The largest contributors to the increase in the capacity
utilization rate were the transportation equipment, machinery,
wood product manufacturing and non-metallic mineral product
manufacturing industries.  Capacity use was down in 10 industries, notably the
computer and electronic product manufacturing industry and in
the  food industry .  Higher production of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts
as well as of aerospace products and their parts raised the
capacity utilization rate in the transportation equipment
industry by 1.9 percentage points to 91.7%.  Increased output of agricultural, construction and mining
machinery and, to a lesser extent, of metalworking machinery
helped push the capacity utilization rate in the machinery
manufacturing industry up to 89.1%.  In the wood product manufacturing industry, capacity
utilization rose from 76.1% in the first quarter to 77.9% in the
second quarter. As in the previous quarter, the increase was
mainly a result of higher production in the sawmills and wood
preservation industry.  The non-metallic mineral product manufacturing industry
operated at 81.3% of its capacity, up 3.3 percentage points.
Higher production of cement and concrete products was largely
responsible for the increase.  The computer and electronic product manufacturing industry
ran at 85.1% of its capacity, down 2.6 percentage points. The
main reason for the decline was lower production of
communications equipment.  Non-manufacturing industries: Widespread small increases  The non-manufacturing sector saw an increase in its
capacity utilization similar to the advance seen in the
manufacturing industries as a whole.  The  construction industry  had the largest impact on the
sector’s increase, as its capacity utilization rate rose from
79.1% to 80.1% between the first and second quarter. The advance
was mostly attributable to a substantial increase in engineering
construction and residential building construction.  The oil and gas extraction industry also made a significant
contribution to the increase in the sector’s capacity
utilization. The 1.3 percentage point rise in the industry’s
capacity utilization rate was a result of increased oil
extraction, while gas extraction declined.  Higher production by potash mines and copper, nickel, lead
and zinc ore mines more than offset the decline in coal
extraction, resulting in a 0.2 percentage point increase in
capacity utilization in the mining and quarrying industry.  Note to readers  The industrial capacity utilization rate is the ratio of an
industry’s actual output to its estimated potential output. For
most industries, the annual estimates are obtained from the
Capital and Repair Expenditures Survey, while the quarterly
pattern is derived from output-to-capital ratio series, the
output being the real gross domestic product at basic prices,
seasonally adjusted, by industry.  This program covers all manufacturing and selected non-
manufacturing industries.  At the time of this release, rates have been revised back
to the first quarter of 2010 to reflect updated source data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  