-- Canada July New House Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-09-13T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/canada-july-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the new house price index report for July released by
 Statistics Canada .  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) rose 0.1% in July,
following a 0.2% increase in June.  The metropolitan region of Calgary was the top contributor
to the advance. Some builders reported that increased material
and labour costs were the main reason for higher prices.  The largest monthly price advance in July occurred in the
metropolitan region of  St. John’s  (+0.6%), followed by
St.·Catharines-Niagara and Halifax (both up 0.4%). In St. John’s
and St. Catharines-Niagara, the increase was primarily the
result of higher material and labour costs. In Halifax, the main
reason for the advance was market conditions.  Prices were unchanged in 6 of the 21 metropolitan regions
surveyed in July. Monthly prices declined 0.3% in Windsor as a
result of lower negotiated prices. Prices fell 0.2% in
Kitchener-Cambridge-Waterloo as well as Victoria, as some
builders recorded lower negotiated selling prices.  On a year-over-year basis, the NHPI rose 2.3% in the 12
months to July, following a similar year-over-year increase the
previous month. The main contributor to the advance was the
combined metropolitan regions of Toronto and Oshawa.  The largest year-over-year increases in contractors’
selling prices occurred in Regina (+4.7%), Toronto and Oshawa
(+4.6%), and Winnipeg (+4.4%).  Other significant year-over-year increases occurred in
Kitchener-Cambridge-Waterloo (+3.3%) and Québec (+3.1%).  Among the 21 metropolitan regions surveyed, 4 posted 12-
month price declines in July. The largest decrease was in
Victoria (-2.9%).  Note to readers  The New Housing  Price Index  measures changes over time in
the selling prices of new residential houses agreed upon between
the contractor and the buyer at the time of the signing of the
contract. It is designed to measure the changes in the selling
prices of new houses where detailed specifications pertaining to
each house remain the same between two consecutive periods. The
prices collected from builders and included in the index are
market selling prices less value added taxes, such as the
Federal Goods and Services Tax or the Harmonized Sales Tax.  The provincial government of British Columbia introduced
legislation on May 14, 2012, announcing the return to a
provincial sales tax on April 1, 2013. From April 1, 2012, until
March 31, 2013, there are new housing transitional rebates in
place. After the transition is complete, the provincial  sales
tax  on building materials in British Columbia will be embedded
in contractors’ selling prices of new houses. These changes will
be reflected in the New Housing Price Index as reported by
respondents.  The indexes are not subject to revision and not seasonally
adjusted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  