-- Capitalism and Government Are Friends After All
-- B y   A l e x   M a r s h a l l
-- 2012-09-13T22:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/capitalism-and-government-are-friends-after-all.html
Americans will be getting an earful
about the perils or virtues of government until they vote on
Nov. 6. But they won’t hear anything about what it is exactly.  To Republicans, government is a cancerous force, there to
secure what their platform  calls  “our God-given liberties.”
Success comes only through individual hard work, nurtured by
faith and family. As the platform explains: “We are the party
of maximum economic freedom,” which promotes prosperity so
“individuals and families can maintain their freedom from
government.”  To Democrats, government can help you get a job, medical
care and more. It enables us to show that “we’re all in this
together,” as former President  Bill Clinton  said in his speech
at the Democratic National Convention.  The Democrats have a view of government that is closer to
my own, but even they struggle to explain the  deeper role  that
it plays in our lives: creating and maintaining the very
marketplace that Republicans worship.  There is this idea, not discussed because it is so widely
accepted even on the political left, that some sort of
independent, free-standing market exists with its own laws,
similar to those of natural systems, such as the law of gravity.
Democrats want to poke, prod and regulate this market;
Republicans say they want to leave it alone. But this so-called
free market doesn’t exist, not even as a valid concept.
Governments create markets.  Creating Markets  Government is responsible for  every aspect  of the market
economy, from writing the laws defining private property,
corporations and intellectual property, to building the roads on
which commerce depends. When business was simpler, centuries
ago, government built simple markets. Today, it creates more
complicated ones.  It took centuries of evolution to arrive at today’s system
of property ownership, where a piece of land can be measured,
bought and sold like a commodity. For thousands of years, kings
handed out patents -- essentially a grant of government power --
for land (thus “land patents”) or as a grant of monopoly power
to sell something, say salt or bricks. In 1474, the Venetian
Senate was the first to set up a patent system aimed at
promoting invention. The new law let inventors know, in advance,
that they would be rewarded with limited monopoly rights for
significant new creations. Other nations copied this.  Governments have invested in physical infrastructure, such
as roads, ports and waterworks, for as long as they have
existed. A high point was  New York  State’s construction of the
 Erie Canal  in 1825, inspired by an earlier federal plan for
roads and canals put forward by  Thomas Jefferson ’s brilliant
treasury secretary, Albert Gallatin.  Paul Johnson , the
conservative British historian, called the Erie Canal the
greatest public-works project of all time in terms of the wealth
it created. Today’s discussion in the U.S. of state and federal
investment in high-speed train lines is a continuation of the
long debates over which kinds of infrastructure to invest in.  Just as there can be good and bad forms of government, such
as democracies and dictatorships, there can be good and bad
markets. There used to be a vast body of law dealing with the
buying, selling and ownership of slaves, for example. When
Congress finally outlawed slavery through the  13th Amendment  in
the 19th century, all that was swept away.  If you like markets, if you applaud individual success and
private business, you like government. One is not possible
without the other. The relationship of government to the private
marketplace and capitalism as a whole is one of parent and
child.  Ryan’s Rigidity  Paul Ryan , the Republican vice-presidential nominee, might
never accept this, if he is a strict believer in novelist  Ayn Rand ’s view that government is a parasite on the body of a
marketplace that works by itself. But there is hope for the rest
of us. We can stop talking about markets versus government, and
start talking about what markets we want. In a democracy, if we
understand that government creates markets, it means that we --
the people -- shape them. And our candidates should tell us how
they would shape them.  I would like to see  Mitt Romney  and  Barack Obama  talk about
what  changes  are needed in the state and federal system of
chartering corporations, for example. And does either candidate
have ideas for how the patent and copyright systems should be
altered in an age when words, sounds and images can be
transmitted across the world at no cost? These issues should not
be left to the courts and lobbyists.  Government doesn’t just change the  light bulbs  in the arena
that private businesses operate in. It designed the whole
stadium. This election is about acknowledging this, or remaining
willfully in the dark.  ( Alex Marshall , a senior fellow at the  Regional Plan
Association  in New York, is the author of the new book  “The
Surprising Design of Market Economies.”   The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  tax spat in France , on
 Egypt ’s dance around the  U.S. embassy breach  and on the
disingenuousness of last year’s  debt-ceiling debate ;  Jonathan
Alter  on Romney’s  “No Apology” foreign policy ;  Stephen Carter 
on the need for politics to  stop at the water’s edge ;  Noah
Feldman  on  China’s invisible heir apparent ;  Ezra Klein  on a
 carbon-tax fantasy ; Willie Pesek on  China’s missing No. 2  man;
 Jonathan Weil  on banks that admit their  balance sheets  are
awful.  To contact the writer of this article:
Alex Marshall at  alex@rpa.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  