-- CEO Bonuses Drop 31% in Canadian Mining Industry, Survey Shows
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-09-13T17:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/ceo-bonuses-drop-31-in-canadian-mining-industry-survey-shows.html
Bonuses paid to chief executive
officers at Canadian mining companies have fallen 31 percent to
C$370,000 ($381,000) this year after a slowdown in commodity
demand, according to a survey by Coopers Consulting Ltd. and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  While the average base salary among 78 CEOs rose 0.8
percent to C$490,000 this year, total compensation is down 7
percent to C$767,000, Coopers and PwC said today in a statement.  Mining company boards, under pressure from investors, have
refined the performance criteria for CEO compensation in the
last few years, Lou Vujanich, principal at Coopers Consulting in
 Vancouver , said in an interview. Softening commodity demand and
prices have curbed profitability and market values, Michael
Cinnamond, a senior partner in PwC’s mining practice in
Vancouver, said in the statement.  Total pay has declined even as incentives rise, Vujanich
said. CEO base salaries will probably stay flat in 2013 while
cash bonus payments will decline, he said.  “We’ve been seeing those targets go up but the actual
amounts that they are getting have been going down,” he said.  New graduate mining engineers can expect a starting salary
of about C$70,000, increasing to about C$76,000 for new hires
with one to two years’ experience, according to the survey.  Companies are also offering incentive plans to a wider
group of workers in a bid to attract talent, Vujanich said.  Vujanich said he doesn’t see an easing in the shortage of
skilled workers in the  mining industry , despite economic
uncertainty and projects being delayed or shelved.  “There’s certainly a slowdown, but it’s nowhere near as
dramatic as we’ve seen in other cycles,” he said. “All the
studies that we’ve seen suggest that the shortfall or the
shortage of workers in the mining industry is still going to be
a factor for years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  