-- Charter-School Growth Fuels Chicago Teacher Fears
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a
-- 2012-09-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/charter-school-growth-fuels-chicago-teacher-fears.html
Chicago  schools’ union walkout sent
the parents of 350,000 students hunting for child care for a
third straight day yesterday. Yanira Robles, mother of five,
wasn’t one of them.  “I feel lucky that they are in a school that is not on
strike,” said Robles, 37, whose children attend  Esmeralda
Santiago Charter  School in the Humboldt Park neighborhood. “It
was a relief. I want them to be learning.”  Santiago is one of about 100 public charter schools
remaining open through the third-largest U.S. city’s first
strike in 25 years. Serving more than 50,000 students, they
employ mostly nonunion teachers -- putting them at the heart of
the dispute between the Chicago Teachers Union and Chicago Mayor
 Rahm Emanuel .  The number of charter schools, which receive public money
while being freed of many work and collective-bargaining rules,
has doubled in Chicago since 2005, according to the  National
Alliance  for Public Charter Schools, a Washington-based
nonprofit advocacy group. The alliance says more than 2 million
U.S. children -- 4 percent of those in public education --attend
more than 5,000 charter schools. That’s about six times more
than in the 1999-2000 school year.  Chicago teachers worry that as those numbers increase,
their union jobs will be lost to nonunion charter schools. Those
concerns were fueled by a report in the Chicago Tribune
yesterday that said the Emanuel administration, which has called
for 60 new charter schools by 2017, was considering closing as
many as 120 traditional public schools.  ‘Personal Attack’  “It’s a personal attack on us,” said John Kugler, a
coordinator for the union and a former public school teacher.
“They want to eliminate our jobs and privatize them.”  Asked about the report, Sarah Hamilton, Emanuel’s
spokeswoman, said, “We haven’t had any conversations. We’re
only focusing on ending the strike.”  Charter supporters say they offer an alternative to failing
schools, especially for low-income students. A 2010 survey by
the consulting company Mathematica Policy Research compared
students enrolled at charters with those who applied but weren’t
admitted. It found that overall performance was roughly similar,
though poor and low-achieving students at charters showed
significant gains over peers at traditional public schools.  After  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005,  New Orleans  turned to
charter schools as a way to overhaul public education. Its
charters now enroll more than 70 percent of students, a larger
share than in any other U.S. district.  Washington  and  Los
Angeles  also have been hotbeds for the movement.  No ‘Springboard’  The leader of one of Chicago’s biggest charter operations
rejected the union’s suggestion that his schools are exploiting
the strike.  “I don’t think it’s a strategy in the charter-school
community to use this situation as a springboard,” said Juan
Rangel, president of the United Neighborhood Organization
charter network, which runs 13 campuses serving 6,500 students.
“But we see that more parents are becoming interested in
charter schools, wondering why is it that 52,000 kids are in
school right now.”  Charters operate without many of the rules governing
traditional institutions, offering a number of alternative
approaches -- from regular home visits to teaching yoga
relaxation techniques, said Melissa Sweazy, director of the
Esmeralda Santiago school, which is part of UNO’s network.  “There is more autonomy in charter schools to make
academic decisions,” Sweazy said. “I feel like we are
transforming the community.”  Smaller Salaries  Charter-school educators typically make less than their
counterparts in Chicago. The average public-school teacher
salary is $74,839, according to the Chicago Public Schools
website. Those at Chicago charters make an average of $51,000,
said Andrew Broy, president of the Illinois Network of Charter
Schools.  The alternative schools have been a popular target on
picket lines across the city this week. “Rahm, Brizard: We’re
no fools! Corporate money can’t buy our schools!” went one
chant meant for Chicago Public Schools CEO Jean-Claude Brizard,
who supports charter schools, some of which are run by for-
profit entities.  Opponents say higher-performing charter schools cherry-pick
the best students in order to improve their test scores.  “Where they do well is where they kick out behavior
problems,” said John Cusick, the union representative at
William H. Ray Elementary School in Hyde Park on the south side.
“And where do they come? Right into our schools. And we educate
them with love.”  School Performance  While acknowledging that some charter schools underachieve,
Broy said the majority do better than their counterparts.  “There are some low-performing schools, but the notion
that charters are not doing as well is not supported by data,”
he said.  At Esmeralda Santiago, at least one parent agreed. Robles
said she has seen her children’s grades improve “tremendously”
since she moved them from a public school a year ago.  “Their self-esteem went up because of this,” she said.
“The kids are happy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anastasia Ustinova in Chicago at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in Chicago at  