-- Chavez 67% Spending Surge Sets Up Devaluation After Vote
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-09-13T17:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/chavez-67-spending-increase-sets-up-devaluation-after-election.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s
67 percent increase in government spending is setting the stage
for a currency devaluation after national elections next month.  As the 58-year-old president boosts wages and builds houses
for the poor to win a third term, the bolivar is tumbling in
unregulated markets to a level 62 percent weaker than the
regulated exchange rate, compared with a 50 percent difference
at the end of 2011. Most individuals and businesses now pay
11.19 bolivars per dollar versus 8.63 at the start of the year
and the fixed 4.3 bolivar official rate.  Chavez’s August spending surge is swelling the  budget
deficit  that will compel him to devalue the currency after the
vote to bolster revenue from oil exports and shore up government
finances, according to Barclays Plc and Bank of America Corp.,
which said in a report yesterday that spending grew 41 percent
on an inflation-adjusted basis. Chavez is favored to win the
race against Henrique Capriles Radonski, according to the latest
poll by Datanalisis, giving him another six-year term to deepen
his revolution with more state control of the economy.  “The market is pricing in an imminent  currency devaluation 
in 2013 regardless of who wins,” said Carlos Fuenmayor, the
Miami-based chief executive officer of BancTrust & Co., an
investment advisory firm.  The government and state-run oil company  Petroleos de
Venezuela SA  have been providing foreign currency to a central
bank market at a second official exchange rate of 5.3 bolivars
per dollar. Investors in the market buy dollar-denominated bonds
locally with bolivars, then sell the securities abroad for U.S.
currency.  Dollar Demand  This year, the government has only sold local currency debt
and PDVSA’s one sale, a $3 billion offering, was allotted to the
central bank and state-run banks in a private placement, fueling
dollar demand in the unregulated market.  Venezuela  supplies a limited amount of dollars at the
official rates to meet import needs. Those who aren’t given
approval to buy dollars at those rates turn to the unregulated
market.  Chavez, who first imposed exchange controls in 2003, said
Sept.  11 that he has no plans to devalue the official rate and
that the  economy is stable. “Our currency policy is working,”
he  said at  a press conference in Caracas.  In 2010, the government shut an unregulated currency market
administered by brokerages in a bid to clamp down on imports
that were adding to surging inflation, closing it when the
 exchange rate  hit 8.2 per dollar. The bolivar weakened 4 percent
last year, according to Lechuga Verde, ending 2011 at 8.63 per
 U.S. dollar .  Jail Time  A weaker exchange rate bolsters the amount of bolivars
Venezuela gets from oil exports, which are sold for dollars and
generate 95 percent of the country’s export revenue.  Central bank President Nelson Merentes told Chavez in
August 2011 when asked about the unofficial rate that it was
“under control.” The government prohibits local media from
publishing or talking about specific rates for the bolivar
beyond the official price, while the trading of dollars outside
regulated channels is punishable by fines and jail.  Venezuelans have turned to using new names to talk about
dollars such as “lechuga,” which means lettuce, to skirt the
government’s rules.  2011 Deficit  Officials at the central bank and  Finance Ministry  didn’t
reply to e-mails and telephone calls seeking comment on the
possibility of devaluation or the rise in  government spending .  Venezuela’s central government reported 42.4 billion
bolivars ($9.8 billion) of spending in August, excluding public
debt payments, compared with 25.5 billion bolivars the same
period a year earlier, according to the National Treasury
 website . Venezuela posted a deficit of 4 percent of gross
domestic product in 2011, the latest figures available from the
Finance Ministry.  “The government had been able to control the rate mostly
through dissuasion of the largest buyers due to the legal
uncertainty and with a lot of bond sales, but this year there
hasn’t been an escape valve,” Alejandro Arreaza, an economist
at Barclays in  New York , said in a phone interview. “On top of
that there are expectations of a devaluation and everyone is
going out to cover themselves.”  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold Venezuelan debt
over U.S. Treasuries surpassed  Argentina  yesterday for the first
time since Aug. 1 and became the highest among major Latin
American nations. Venezuela’s yield spread widened 13 basis
points to 963, or 9.61 percentage point, as of 1:11 p.m. in
Caracas, while Argentina’s fell 15 basis points to 929,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  While the bolivar’s slide has accelerated in the
unregulated market, Chavez has managed to slow  annual inflation 
for nine consecutive months to 18.1 percent in August by having
the government step up imports of food at the official rate.
Food accounts for 37 percent of the inflation index, the largest
weight on the price gauge.  Chavez has devalued the official exchange rate twice since
2010, from 2.15 to the current 4.3 rate, while maintaining the
central bank’s  currency market  rate of 5.3 since its inception
in June 2010 to replace the shuttered brokerage market.  Venezuela will devalue the bolivar 31 percent to 6.2 per
dollar in the first quarter of 2013, according to the median
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg in July. The
central  bank rate  will be weakened 18 percent to 6.5 per dollar,
according to the average estimate of 11 analysts.  ‘Parallel Market’  Executives from  Visa Inc. (V)  and  Procter & Gamble Co . have
said this year that they’re expecting a devaluation after the
elections.  Arcos Dorados Holdings Inc. (ARCO) , the operator of
McDonald’s restaurants in  Latin America , had been raising prices
in line with the unregulated exchange rate of the bolivar, Chief
Executive Officer Woods White Staton said on Aug. 7.  “We’ve raised prices to cover the cost of importing things
in Venezuela,” Staton said during a teleconference. “We’ve got
much higher prices to cover the - to reflect - the value of the
money on the parallel market at which our imports are brought
into the country.”  Chavez, who says that it’s “impossible” for him to lose
the election and that the only variable is how wide of a margin
of victory he obtains, has bolstered government spending on
wages and social programs to curry favor with voters.  Latest Poll  Chavez had 43.1 percent support compared with 30 percent
for Capriles in a Datanalisis poll taken between Sept. 3 and 8.
The poll, which surveyed 1,200 people by telephone, had a margin
of error of 2.8 percentage points.  The 58 percent annual surge in the  money supply , as
measured by the M2 monetary gauge, helped weaken the currency,
according to  Francisco Rodriguez , a New York-based economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “The black market exchange rate essentially responds to
excess liquidity,” he said in a telephone interview. “That’s a
sign that the government is in the midst of its last stretch of
the campaign and is spending as one would expect it to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  