-- Chicago Strike Talks Resume With Possibility of Agreement
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-09-13T17:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/chicago-strike-negotiation-resumes-with-talk-of-classes-tomorrow.html
The fourth day of the  Chicago 
teachers strike opened with discussion of a possible settlement
after union and school board negotiators said they made progress
on how instructors are evaluated.  “We’ll work toward trying to get this thing done,”
Chicago Teachers Union President Karen Lewis said today before
the start of negotiations.  Even if there is a settlement, Lewis said it is “highly
unlikely” students could be back in the classrooms tomorrow
because the union’s House of Delegates would have to endorse the
deal. That could delay the opening of schools to Sept. 17.  “We still have some major stuff we have to look at,”
added Lewis, who has repeatedly said the strike’s outcome could
shape the future of public education throughout the U.S.  Teachers walked off the job Sept. 10, closing classrooms to
more than 350,000 students and marking the first such strike in
the city since 1987. The dispute stemmed from efforts by Mayor
Rahm Emanuel to lengthen the school day and year as well as the
cancellation of a negotiated 4 percent pay increase.  The district faces a deficit of about $700 million that is
projected to rise to $1 billion next year.  Resisting Rahm  The strike represents the first significant resistance to
efforts by Emanuel, the former chief of staff to Democratic
President  Barack Obama , to restructure the operation of the
nation’s third-largest city and its school district, which he
controls.  Unions have been among the strongest supporters of
Democrats nationwide, and an extended walkout in Chicago, the
president’s hometown and a bastion of party strength, risks
undermining backing for Obama in the November election. At the
same time, Emanuel faces financial pressures, produced largely
by accumulated pension liabilities from unionized workers.  “We will remember you at the voting day,” read the sign
from one picketer at a high school yesterday, one of several
sites where teachers protested.  By striking, the CTU is taking a stand against a nationwide
movement to partly measure the effectiveness of teachers through
test scores of their students. The school board had proposed
that at least 25 percent of a teacher’s rating during the
contract’s first two years be based on their pupils’ academic
performance. That would rise to 30 percent in the third year.  The union said the provision would prompt the firing of
thousands of teachers. The  Chicago Sun-Times   reported  today that
Emanuel’s negotiators had offered a concession that would allow
some poor-performing teachers to stay as long as subsequent
scores didn’t dramatically decline.  While the district is proposing a 16 percent pay increase
for teachers over the four years of the contract, the means to
fund that is unclear. A spokeswoman for Emanuel denied a report
in the  Chicago Tribune  that the mayor is considering closing 80
to 120 underperforming schools.  “We’re only focusing on ending the strike,” said Sarah
Hamilton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  