-- Chile Probably Will Delay Rate Cuts After Growth Forecasts Rise
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-09-13T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/chile-probably-will-delay-rate-cuts-after-growth-forecasts-rise.html
Chile ’s central bank probably will
keep its key  interest rate  unchanged for the eighth month in a
row today after the government, policy makers and economists
raised growth forecasts for the world’s top copper producer.  Policy makers, led by central bank President Rodrigo Vergara, will keep the benchmark rate at 5 percent, according to
all 19 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg . The bank will announce
its decision after 6:00 p.m. local time.  As Chile’s economy shrugs off the global slowdown, the
lowest inflation rate in  Latin America  probably won’t be enough
to trigger rate cuts. Policy makers are unlikely to start
stimulating the economy until the world economic situation
deteriorates further and starts putting a drag on Chilean
growth, said Felipe Jaque, a former economist at the central
bank.  “The external scenario probably would be the main factor
to trigger a change in policy,” Jaque, now an economist at
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, said by phone from Santiago.
“Inflation was only marginally below market estimates” in
August and doesn’t justify a rate cut, he said.  Consumer prices rose 0.2 percent last month, compared with
the 0.3 percent median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Prices remained unchanged in July and fell 0.3
percent in June, the National Statistics Institute said.  The annual inflation rate climbed to 2.6 percent in August
from 2.5 percent the month before. That compares with 4.57
percent in  Mexico , 3.53 percent in  Peru  and the central bank’s
own target of 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point.  Forecasts  The central bank forecasts inflation will end the year at
2.5 percent, down from 4.4 percent last December, according to
its September monetary policy report.  “Medium-term inflationary risks are still present,” the
bank wrote in the report. “The recent increase in the world
prices of fuels and some foodstuffs could rapidly pass through
to inflation, all the more so considering the current state of
output gaps.”  Chile’s economy expanded 5.5 percent in the second quarter
from last year, the fastest growth in a year. A 7.1 percent gain
in internal demand and 8 percent increase in investment led
growth in the period, according to the central bank.  Policy makers in their September report raised their gross
domestic product growth forecast for this year to a range of
4.75 percent to 5.25 percent from their June estimate of 4
percent to 5 percent. Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said in a
Sept. 11 interview in  London  that growth would be closer to 5
percent than the government’s official estimate of 4.7 percent.  Vulnerable  Economists surveyed by the central bank have also raised
their 2012 growth forecasts for the past three months, pushing
it to 5 percent in September.  With copper accounting for more than half of Chile’s
exports, the country remains vulnerable to a deceleration in
 China . Growth in the world’s largest consumer of the metal faces
“notable downward pressure,” Chinese President  Hu Jintao  said
Sept. 8, one day before data showed August industrial output
rising at the slowest pace in three years.  Copper prices have averaged $3.62 a pound so far this year
compared with $4.01 in all of 2011.  Credit conditions also have become more restrictive in
Chile, with tighter supply and weaker demand for most personal
and corporate loans, the central bank said in a survey of
lenders published July 11.  Banco de Chile  and Banco Santander
Chile, the nation’s two largest banks by assets, both reported a
decline in second-quarter profits from last year.  “We are concerned with what is happening with the world,”
President Sebastian Pinera, an economist trained at  Harvard
University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said in a Sept. 10
interview in  Russia . “The Chilean economy is behaving in a very
strong and sound way despite a very gloomy picture in the
international economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 