-- Chilean Peso Surges in Extended Trading on Fed Stimulus Plan
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-09-13T20:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/chilean-peso-surges-in-extended-trading-on-fed-stimulus-plan.html
Chile ’s peso extended gains in
after-hours trading after the U.S. Federal Reserve pledged to
buy $40 billion a month of mortgage securities for as long as it
takes to reduce unemployment.  The peso advanced to 470.4 per dollar at 3:50 p.m. in
Santiago, according to prices from Datatec. It gained 0.5
percent to 472.71 during normal trading hours, closing at the
highest level in a year.  The Fed said it would probably hold its benchmark rate near
zero through mid-2015. The Fed said a “highly accommodative
stance” will remain for some time after the recovery in the
world’s largest economy picks up momentum.  “The market for now is celebrating,” said Alejandro Araya, a trader at Banco Santander Chile in Santiago. “It’s all
positive.”  Forward points, which measure the differential between the
spot peso price and the non-deliverable forward price, jumped as
traders anticipated lower dollar yields. The one-month forward
point rose to 2.9 pesos per dollar, the highest since January
2009. The three-month forward point rose to a 12-month high of
7.03 pesos per dollar.  The one-year  basis swap  was unchanged at a three-year low
of negative 19 basis points below six-month Libor, the lowest
since 2009. The two-year basis swap rate rose to 20 basis points
today from a one-month low of 19 basis points yesterday.  Dollar Liquidity  The forward points and the basis swap are functions of each
other. Banks can use the forwards market to fund themselves in
dollars by buying dollars for pesos in the  spot market  and
buying them back in the forwards market.  “The liquidity in dollars is phenomenal,” Araya said
“This is not that the market is pricing in local rate hikes,
it’s that liquidity in dollars is very high.”  All 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg said Chile’s
central bank will leave its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at
5 percent for an eighth straight month today. Central bank
President Rodrigo Vergara said Sept. 5 that the inflation-
adjusted  exchange rate  was aligned with economic fundamentals
and that intervention to weaken the peso would have a
“significant cost.”  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
had a $9.5 billion short peso position on Sept. 11, up from $9.1
billion a day earlier. They had a $10.2 billion  short peso
position  Sept. 5.  The two-year  interest-rate  swap rose three basis points to
a four-month high of 4.97 percent. The one-year swap rate was
unchanged at 4.99 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  