-- China’s Stocks Drop Most in Two Weeks; Industrial Shares Decline
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-13T08:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/china-s-stocks-decline-led-by-material-industrial-companies.html
China’s stocks  fell the most in two
weeks after the official Xinhua News Agency said massive
stimulus measures would be “detrimental” to sustainable
growth, overshadowing the government’s plan to aid exporters.  Gansu Qilianshan Cement Group Co. (600720)  and machinery maker Sany
Heavy Industry Co. slid at least 3.1 percent, pacing declines
for infrastructure-related stocks.  Jiangxi Copper (600362)  Co. and
Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co. led materials producers to
the biggest slump among industry groups as copper prices fell.  “Reliance on exports and investments probably isn’t a
sustainable way of growth,” said  Wang Zheng , Shanghai-based
chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment Management Co.,
which manages about $120 million. “Investors are still worried
about  China ’s long-term growth model.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.8 percent to 2,110.38
at the close, the biggest drop since Aug. 29. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
dropped 0.9 percent to 2,298.46. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  slipped 0.1
percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 0.6 percent in
 New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 4 percent this year on
concern the government isn’t loosening monetary policy or
introducing stimulus policies fast enough to counter the
slowdown in the economy.  China’s central bank issued 28-day reverse-repurchase
contracts for the first time in a decade, extending the duration
of its fund injections into the banking system and damping
speculation lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios will be cut. It
lowered reserve ratios by half a percentage point in May, the
third cut in six months.  No Massive Stimulus  Gansu Qilianshan Cement slumped 7.3 percent to 10.95  yuan .
Huaxin Cement Co., an affiliate of Holcim Ltd., lost 3.4 percent
to 11.12 yuan. Sany Heavy, the biggest machinery maker, slid 3.1
percent to 9.87 yuan.  XCMG Construction Machinery Co. (000425) , China’s
biggest crane maker, dropped 3.3 percent to 11 yuan.  Massive stimulus measures would be “detrimental” to
China’s sustainable economic growth, Xinhua wrote in a
commentary yesterday.  “Many have expected the government to announce an
aggressive plan, similar to the 4-trillion-yuan ($632 billion)
stimulus package issued in 2008, to keep the economy from
stalling for a second time,” Xinhua writer Liu Jie wrote in the
commentary. “However, a massive stimulus plan is not only
unlikely, but would be detrimental to the country’s sustainable
growth.”  A gauge of material stocks in the CSI 300 fell 2 percent,
the most among 10 industry groups. Jiangxi Copper, the nation’s
biggest producer of the metal, retreated 1 percent to 22.47
yuan. Tongling Nonferrous Metals, the second largest, slid 1.8
percent to 18.88 yuan.  Export Aid  Copper fell from a four-month high on concern that demand
prospects are dimming in China, the world’s biggest consumer of
the metal. Contracts for December delivery slid 0.1 percent to
settle at $3.6925 a pound in New York yesterday.  The government said yesterday it will provide aid to
exporters including increased loans, faster tax-rebate
processing and fiscal support, according to a statement on a
State Council meeting chaired by Premier  Wen Jiabao .  China’s exports rose less than 3 percent for a second month
in August while imports had the first non-holiday decline since
2009 as the nation’s slowdown and  Europe ’s turmoil curbed demand
at home and abroad.  Loan Support  Banks have been asked by regulators to increase lending to
railways, roads and other construction projects to support
stable growth of the real economy, the China Securities Journal
reported today, citing an unidentified banker.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 16
today, compared with this year’s average of 17. About 7.9
billion shares changed hands in the gauge yesterday, 1.3 percent
higher than the daily average this year.  China’s media reported on Vice President  Xi Jinping ’s
activities for the first time since Sept. 1. The official
Guangxi Daily reported today that Xi, who is forecast to become
China’s next president and general secretary of the 82 million-
strong party in a leadership change later this year, joined
other top Chinese officials in sending condolences to the family
of a party member who died on Sept. 6. The story was also posted
on the  Communist Party’s website .  China’s stocks are poised for a multi-year bull market as
the nation’s benchmark index approaches the end of a “bust
phase” that started in 2007, according to Elliott Wave
International Inc. technical analysis.  Fourth Wave  The Shanghai Composite’s drop since reaching a record high
of 6,092.06 on Oct. 16, 2007, has reached the fourth wave of a
five-way structure or in a “universal price pattern that has
preceded the start of major bull markets in the past,” Mark Galasiewski, an editor at Elliott Wave International, said in e-
mailed comments today.  Galasiewski also cited stock valuations, excessive investor
pessimism and the outlook for the  property market  as reasons for
buying equities. The Shanghai index is valued at 9.7 times
estimated earnings, compared with the 17.4 average since
Bloomberg began compiling the weekly  data  in 2006.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  