-- Chinese-Owned Ralls Corp. Sues U.S. Over Wind-Farm Order
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/chinese-owned-ralls-corp-sues-u-s-over-wind-farm-order.html
A U.S. company owned by executives
of China-based Sany Group Co. accused a Treasury-led national
security panel in  Washington  in a lawsuit of barring it from
wind-farm projects without explanation or proper legal process.  Ralls Corp., a holding company that controls wind-farm
assets, alleged the multiagency Committee on Foreign Investment
in the U.S., known as CFIUS, exceeded its authority when it
ordered the company to cease operations and keep out of wind-
farm development sites it bought, according to a lawsuit filed
Sept. 12 in federal court in Washington.  CFIUS is an interagency committee headed by Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  that reviews the national security
implications of transactions that could lead to a non-U.S.
citizen controlling a U.S. business. The heads of the
departments of Justice,  Homeland Security , Commerce, Defense,
State, and Energy, among others, sit on the committee. The
panel’s recommendations can be enforced only by the president
under the law.  “Ralls has been cooperating and will continue to cooperate
with CFIUS, although Ralls felt strongly it had been treated
unfairly and selectively,” Tim Tingkang Xia, a lawyer for
Ralls, said in an e-mail.  Natalie Wyeth Earnest, a spokeswoman with the U.S. Treasury
Department, declined to comment on the suit, saying information
filed with CFIUS by law may not be publicly disclosed.  ‘Security Risks’  CFIUS issued an order on July 25 citing “national security
risks” raised by the sale of the wind-farm assets to Ralls,
according to the filing.  An amended order on Aug. 2 added more prohibitions,
including the sale or transfer of the assets to any third party
for the “use or installation at the properties of any items
made or otherwise produced by the Sany Group.”  Closely held Sany Group is the owner of  China ’s biggest
machinery maker. Dawei Duan, Sany’s chief financial officer and
Jialiang Wu, a vice president of the group and general manager
of Sany Electric Co., a group unit, are the owners of Ralls,
according to the complaint.  Ralls is seeking to develop wind energy projects in the
U.S., where Sany Electric’s wind turbine generators can be used,
according to the filing.  Ralls is seeking a temporary restraining order and 
preliminary injunction that would permit the company to resume 
contruction of the wind farms by Sept. 20. If the wind farms 
aren't in service by Dec. 31, then the company won't be able to 
obtain $25 million in federal investment tax incentives, 
according to a court filing yesterday.  Company’s Lawyers  The company is represented by  Paul Clement , the U.S.
solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration and  Viet Dinh , a Bush Justice Department official who helped draft the
USA Patriot Act.  Ralls said that shortly after it acquired land for a wind-
farm in Oregon earlier this year, the U.S. Navy voiced concerns
about the location of one of the projects. The Navy said it
wanted to “reduce air-space conflicts” between the  wind
turbines  and “low-level military aircraft training,” and asked
the company to move the planned wind-farm.  Ralls complied, according to the complaint.  Ralls said it submitted a voluntary notice to CFIUS
disclosing the acquisition on June 28. The next month, the
company was told the deal posed national security risks and it
must shut operations, according to the lawsuit.  CFIUS offered no “evidence or explanation for its
determination” that there were national security concerns and
didn’t say why the transaction was even subject to review by the
committee, Ralls alleged.  ‘Development Rights’  “Draconian obligations” were imposed in connection with
Ralls’s purchase of “four small  Oregon  companies whose assets
consisted solely of wind-farm development rights,” according to
the complaint.  The company accused CFIUS of violating the Administrative
Procedure Act by making an arbitrary and capricious decision and
asked the court to find the panel lacked authority to block the
deal.  “There’s a general frustration on the part of applicants
that CFIUS often doesn’t specifically articulate its concerns or
rationale for blocking a deal,” said Robert Schlossberg, a
partner with Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer US LLP in
Washington. “As the legislation doesn’t provide for judicial
review of CFIUS decisions and the courts have typically shied
away from ruling on national security issues, the plaintiff has
a difficult case.”  Companies, which typically file information with CFIUS
voluntarily to address any early issues, submitted 313 notices
for review with the committee from 2008 to 2010, according to
the panel’s most recent annual  report  to Congress.  Withdrawn Applications  In 42 cases, companies withdrew applications during or
after CFIUS review, according to the report. None went to the
president.  Acquisitions by other Chinese companies have been blocked
by CFIUS. Chinese telephone-equipment maker Huawei Technologies
Co. and Bain Capital Partners LLC dropped a bid to buy computer-
equipment maker 3Com Corp. in 2008 after U.S. officials opposed
the transaction. Last year, Huawei unwound the purchase of
patents from a computer-services company, 3Leaf Systems Inc.,
after U.S. objections.  Executives from Huawei and another telephone-equipment
maker,  ZTE Corp. (000063) , were questioned by lawmakers in Washington
yesterday about their efforts to expand in the U.S.  The case is Ralls Corp. v. Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S., 1:12-cv-01513, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 