-- China Communists Near Soviet Tenure as Leader Pick Looms
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-14T11:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/china-communists-near-soviet-tenure-as-leader-pick-looms.html
China ’s Communist Party will
approach its defunct Soviet counterpart in longevity in power
after it navigates the leadership succession clouded by concern
over Xi Jinping’s status, a Bloomberg News survey indicates.  The party that took control of the mainland in 1949 will
still be in office a decade from now, according to 21 of 22
Chinese political analysts across seven nations who were
surveyed in the past two weeks. Ten respondents cited the
likelihood of some degree of evolution, such as embracing
greater democracy within the party, and one predicted a split.  With China poised to record its weakest growth in two
decades this year, most in the survey said tackling the economy
was the top challenge for the so-called fifth generation of
leaders. The party first must secure the transition to a new
Politburo Standing Committee, after a public absence of
presumptive incoming General Secretary Xi, 59, spurred
speculation about his health.  “Without political reform, the party is doomed because all
these strange events only happen because the party is still a
Leninist Party -- still basically a party run on very old,
obsolete institutions from the days of the Soviet Union,” said
Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of history at the Chinese
University of  Hong Kong . Failure to adapt “will affect
everything, even economic development,” he said.  The party’s challenge is to introduce change while avoiding
a Soviet Union-like scenario of rushed political and economic
opening in the late 1980s that culminated in the Communists’
downfall in 1991, ending 74 years in power.  Smaller Team  The party of  Mao Zedong  will work to retain its leading
role with a smaller team at the very top, with the Standing
Committee shrinking to seven members from a current nine,
according to 15 of 22 respondents who answered the question.  Twenty-six people answered all or part of the survey, which
spanned academics and researchers at think tanks who specialize
in the analysis of Chinese politics, including seven based in
Greater China.  “It won’t be the same Chinese Communist Party,” said
Francois Godement, a professor of political science at Sciences
Po in Paris who advises the French foreign ministry on Asian
affairs and has contributed to studies on China including “A
Power Audit of EU-China Relations.” He predicted “a stepped up
process of political reform from inside, with more room for
elections, up to a point and more debates, with limits.”  Village Democracy  Outgoing Premier  Wen Jiabao  talked about a greater role for
democracy at the village level. He and President  Hu Jintao , who
also serves as general secretary of the party, are forecast to
begin transitioning out of office at a congress in the coming
weeks. China has yet to announce the dates of the gathering, or
whether it may be affected by any issues stemming from the
status of Xi, who is currently vice president.  State-run media reported on the activities of Xi for the
first time since Sept. 1 yesterday, signaling that the
leadership was seeking to counter speculation his absence would
disrupt the once-in-a-decade transfer of power.  “I’m happy to know that you have noticed relevant news,”
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a briefing today
when he was asked about the media report.  The official Guangxi Daily reported that Xi, who had
canceled meetings last week with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Singaporean Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, joined
other top officials in sending condolences to the family of a
party member who died on Sept. 6. The story was also posted on
the Communist Party’s website.  ‘All Speculating’  Gary Locke , the U.S. ambassador to China, said in
 Washington  yesterday that he doesn’t know why Xi canceled his
meeting with Clinton, and that “we’re all speculating” as to
why Xi hasn’t been seen in recent days. Citing unidentified
people from China, the  Hong Kong Economic Times  reported that he
has only a minor injury and said speculation that he has cancer
or was in a car accident are fictitious.  Other reports have said he may have suffered a heart attack
or sustained a back injury, either while playing soccer or
swimming.  Xi could make a public appearance as early as tomorrow as
he recovers from a bad back, Reuters  reported  today, citing
unidentified people. Xi has been receiving treatment for a back
injury while preparing for the leadership transition later this
year, the  news agency  said.  Bo Ouster  The party is seeking to bolster its legitimacy after being
rocked by its biggest political scandal in a generation with the
ouster of Bo Xilai from the ruling Politburo and the suspended
death sentence his wife Gu Kailai received last month for
murdering a British businessman.  “Ceding more space to political opposition” may help the
82 million-strong party maintain control of the world’s second-
largest economy, according to Kerry Brown, a professor at the
 University of Sydney  and former diplomat with the British
Embassy in Beijing.  A majority of respondents, questioned before speculation
over Xi’s status escalated in the past week, saw him succeeding
Hu. Son of a former vice premier, Xi ran coastal Zhejiang
province from 2002 to 2007, and was party secretary in Shanghai
in 2007 before being appointed to the Politburo Standing
Committee at the 17th party congress that fall. On a trip to the
U.S. in February, he met with President  Barack Obama  in
Washington and toured rural Muscatine,  Iowa , which he had
visited as an agricultural official 27 years before.  Limited Measures  Any wrinkle with Xi’s succession may heighten focus on the
other officials anticipated as incoming members of the top
policy making body. Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , 57, will become the
next premier, and  Wang Qishan , 64, will ascend to executive vice
premier, according to the survey majority.  Li has been executive vice premier in charge of the
economy, giving him a front-line view of the dangers stemming
from non-performing loans from China’s record 2009-2010 fiscal
stimulus and credit boom. Policy makers have adopted limited
measures this year as growth moderated. A large-scale policy
response would hurt long-term growth and the government’s
hesitation in making “bold moves” is pragmatic, the official
Xinhua News Agency wrote in a commentary yesterday.[bn:PRSN=1768924]   Wang [] has been one of China’s most visible officials,
serving as counterpart to Clinton and U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  in annual bilateral Strategic and Economic
Dialogue talks. Wang participated in an interview on the
“Charlie Rose” show broadcast on PBS and Bloomberg Television
in May 2011, when he called for reducing reliance on exports.  December Uprising  Guangdong Party Secretary Wang Yang, 57, who runs China’s
top exporting province, is also projected to make the Standing
Committee, according to the survey. State-controlled media
praised Wang for peacefully settling a December uprising in the
fishing village of Wukan that saw residents expel local party
officials. The resolution became a potential model for ending
such disputes in the future.  The downfall of Bo, whose removal as Chongqing party boss
precipitated the biggest political crisis in China since the
Tiananmen Square tragedy of 1989, may have opened the way for
 Zhang Dejiang . Zhang, 65, who took the place of Bo in running
the nation’s largest municipal region, will join the panel, the
survey indicates.  Party organization chief  Li Yuanchao , 61, and Shanghai
Party Secretary Yu Zhengsheng are also seen as joining.  Should the Standing Committee keep its nine-member format,
Tianjin Party Secretary Zhang Gaoli and State Councilor Liu Yandong will join their ranks, according to the survey.  More Challenging  Liu, the only female candidate in the running for a place
on China’s supreme decision-making body, would become the first
woman in the history of the People’s Republic of China to be
named to the body. Ten analysts predicted her inclusion in a
nine-person group.  Xi’s team may find its tenure at the top more challenging
than that of Hu and Wen. During their nine full years of rule
from 2003 through 2011, economic growth  averaged  10.6 percent a
year and China leapfrogged past Japan, Germany, France and the
U.K. to become the world’s second-biggest economy after the U.S.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and ING Groep NV on Sept. 7 cut their forecasts for
economic expansion this year to 7.5 percent amid a weakening
global outlook and less forceful policy support than they
previously expected. That would be the slowest  pace  since 1990.  China will loosen its one-child policy, which already has
many exceptions, the respondents said. Among the 26 people
responding to a question on whether China would abandon the
policy, three said the government would make no changes.  Atomized Disturbances  Of the 24 analysts who responded to a question asking
whether China would experience significant social unrest over
the next decade, one said no and one considered it unlikely. The
number of so-called mass incidents such as strikes and riots
doubled to 180,000 in the period from 2006 to 2010, Tsinghua
University sociologist Sun Liping wrote last year.  Disturbances probably will continue a pattern of being
“atomized, and not nationally coordinated, but certainly
serious,” said Perry Link, a professor at the  University of
California , Riverside. He said the party’s biggest challenge
over the next decade could be combating “growing popular
resentment of the ruling group,” which has been stoked by
rising inequality, slowing growth and corruption.  The scandal surrounding Bo highlighted how families of
China’s most powerful politicians have amassed vast wealth. The
extended families of Bo and Gu, for example, accumulated at
least $136 million in company shares and property, according to
regulatory and corporate filings.  Strengthening the rule of law and giving party members a
greater say in how decisions are made may help keep the party in
power, according to John James Kennedy, a professor of political
science at the University of Kansas who has written studies of
rural politics in China.  “In other words, the CCP must sacrifice some level of
political power in order to remain in power,” Kennedy said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  