-- Citigroup Puts the Fun Back in Taking Huge Losses
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-09-13T22:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/citigroup-puts-the-fun-back-in-taking-huge-losses.html
A few months ago, the  Bank for
International Settlements , which acts as a bank for the world’s
central banks, warned in its  annual report  that “the financial
sector needs to recognize losses” and “adjust balance sheets
to accurately reflect the value of assets.” We are starting to
get a taste of what that means, and it’s not all bad.  This week,  Citigroup Inc. (C)   said  it would record a $4.7
billion pretax charge to earnings after agreeing to  sell  its
stake in its brokerage joint venture with Morgan Stanley. In
hindsight, Citigroup had been overvaluing the business on its
balance sheet for months, and maybe years. Yet investors took
the news well. Citigroup’s  stock price  rose. Shareholders seemed
glad to get the matter over with, even though the loss wipes out
about a quarter’s worth of  earnings .  Let that be a lesson to other financial institutions. Now
is as good a time as ever to fess up to long-overdue red ink.
The stock market is surging, and the  Federal Reserve  and
 European Central Bank  are doing all they can to prop up the
industry. Booking pent-up losses gets bad news into the past and
helps banks build credibility, which they will need in abundance
the next time they go to raise fresh capital. As Citigroup’s
chief executive, Vikram Pandit, put it this week, “the more we
put the past behind us, the more we can focus on our future.”  Reality Deficit  There has been plenty of news lately that backs up the
assertions by the Basel, Switzerland-based  Bank for
International Settlements  about hidden losses. At  Hudson City
Bancorp Inc. (HCBK) , one of  New Jersey ’s largest lenders, the  balance
sheet  was so detached from reality that the company agreed last
month to sell itself to  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  at a 20 percent discount
to book value, or assets minus liabilities. Even so, the $3.7
billion sale price was 12 percent more than Hudson City’s stock-
market value at the time. So its shareholders benefited.  Last week, Atlanta-based  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)   said  it would
record $725 million of pretax charges to write down bad loans,
buy back soured mortgages and sell losing investments. At the
same time, it also said it would book a $1.9 billion gain from
selling shares of  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , which SunTrust had held since
1919 when it helped take the soft-drink maker public. With the
losses amply sugarcoated, SunTrust’s stock rose on the news.  This week, the Treasury Department sold most of its
majority stake in  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  While the
sale  drew  widespread  praise , it also showed the government may
not have much faith in AIG’s financial statements, four years
after bailing out the insurance giant. The Treasury sold at
$32.50 a share, or a little more than half of AIG’s book value.  One reason financial institutions can bury losses for years
on end is that the accounting standards make it easy for them.
Many types of financial instruments, including loans, don’t have
to be carried at their fair-market values. And the rules for
writing them down tend to be flexible.  Often the same kind of asset or liability can be treated
many different ways for accounting purposes, depending on what
its owner supposedly intends to do with it. For instance,
SunTrust had been classifying its  Coca-Cola shares  as
“available for sale.” That meant the company’s paper gains
didn’t hit net income and could be saved to offset unpleasant
blemishes later.  Citigroup’s 49 percent interest in Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney, which Morgan Stanley agreed to buy for about $6.6
billion, is another classic example. In its 2011  annual report ,
Citigroup said the investment had a “temporary impairment” as
of Dec. 31, but that management didn’t plan to sell “prior to
recovery of value” and didn’t believe the bank would be
required to. Citigroup also said its potential loss “was not
material.”  Stressed Out  A Citigroup spokeswoman,  Shannon Bell , said in an e-mail
this week that, based on the information available to Citigroup
at the time, “it was unclear whether MS would be in a position
to exercise its option to purchase an additional stake in the
JV,” or joint venture. She pointed out that, back then, the Fed
hadn’t yet released the results of its latest stress tests and
capital reviews at the largest U.S. banks.  In other words, there was a chance Morgan Stanley might
fail the Fed’s stress test. (It didn’t, although Citigroup did.)
That made for an odd accounting result: The less likely it was
that a buyer existed for Citigroup’s investment, the more money
the investment was worth. Citigroup’s loss, of course, proved to
be quite material in the end.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  later did decide to buy Citigroup’s piece of
the business. When the two sides couldn’t agree on a value, they
put the question to a third-party appraiser, which came up with
a number closer to Morgan Stanley’s much-lower estimate. Morgan
Stanley, which  trades  for just 58 percent of book value, hasn’t
disclosed the amount it has been using on its own balance sheet
for the three-year-old joint venture.  Citigroup first  warned  in July that a big charge to
earnings was possible. A critical question is how many more
losses of this magnitude may loom. At $34.45 a share, the stock
is trading for 55 percent of the company’s June 30 book value.
So the market believes there’s about an $83 billion hole in
Citigroup’s balance sheet.  The more Citigroup clears the decks, the more trust its
leaders will build with the public, assuming they don’t go crazy
and write off so much dreck that they spark another crisis. All
investors want is a reason to believe them.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  tax spat in France , on
 Egypt ’s dance around the  U.S. embassy breach  and on the
disingenuousness of last year’s  debt-ceiling debate ;  Jonathan
Alter  on Romney’s  “No Apology” foreign policy ;  Stephen Carter  on
the need for politics to  stop at the water’s edge ;  Noah Feldman 
on  China’s invisible heir apparent ;  Ezra Klein  on a  carbon-tax
fantasy ; Willie Pesek on  China’s missing No. 2  man;  Alex
Marshall  on why  capitalism and government  are friends after all.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  