-- Colombia Seizes Record Amount of Coltan From Rebel Smugglers
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-09-13T15:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/colombia-seizes-record-amount-of-coltan-from-guerrilla-smugglers.html
Colombia  made its largest ever
seizure of a mineral used in laptops and phones from guerrillas
who have turned to mining to complement financing from the drug
trade.  During a raid in the Amazon jungle on Sept. 11, police
confiscated about 17 tons of columbite-tantalite, or coltan,
from the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, said Colonel
Hector Paez, a deputy director at a national police unit dealing
with rural security. Rebels planned to export the material from
an eastern province, he said in an interview in Bogota.  “It shows the growth in illegal mining of this mineral,”
Paez said yesterday. “It sustains them, economically.”  President  Juan Manuel Santos  has ordered an increase in
raids on illegal mining operations as rebels and crime gangs
take advantage of demand for gold and coltan for revenue after a
crackdown on drug production. Colombia has fallen to third from
first behind Peru and  Bolivia  in global cocaine output, Santos
said last month.  Three men were arrested in the raid next to a tributary
that rebels would have used to transport the mineral from the
site in the province of Vaupes. Coltan, contained in rust-
colored rock, had been processed at the site into a fine dark
gray dust, police reported.  Coltan Exports  Coltan isn’t legally exported now from Colombia, according
to Paez. Government plans to auction rights for mineral and
metals exploration next year won’t include coltan, according to
the mines and energy ministry. Refined coltan has the ability to
resist heat and has traded at as much as $182 a pound, according
to the  United Nations .  Colombia isn’t the only country attempting to stop illegal
coltan mining. In February, the  Democratic Republic  of Congo
sought to block purchases of four so-called conflict minerals
including coltan from unapproved mines after trade by rebel
groups added to more than a decade of violence in the region.  Apple Inc. and  Intel Corp . have backed rules to stop sales
of coltan and other minerals used in electronics from funding
war in Central Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  