-- Colombia Peso Bond Yields Fall to Record Low on Rate-Cut Outlook
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-09-13T18:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/colombia-peso-bond-yields-fall-to-record-low-on-rate-cut-outlook.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds rose, pushing
yields to a record low, amid speculation the central bank will
lower borrowing costs as early as this month to help boost
growth as the economy slows.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 6.5 percent, according to the central bank. That’s the
lowest level on a closing basis since the securities were first
issued in 2009.  Colombia’s central bank forecasts growth of 4.2 percent in
the second quarter, bank board member Juan Pablo Zarate told
reporters in Cartagena today. While the central bank analyzes
economic data in its entirety, lower-than-forecast growth
increases the chances of a rate cut, he said. The national
statistics agency is slated to release its second quarter gross
domestic product report Sept. 20.  “People are betting on a rate cut, but what is hard to
pinpoint is the timing,” said Daniel Lozano, the head analyst
at Serfinco SA brokerage in Bogota.  Policy makers will cut the  overnight lending rate  a quarter
percentage point to 4.5 percent at the Sept. 28 meeting and then
leave it at that level through the remainder of the year,
according to the most frequent forecast in a central bank survey
of analysts published yesterday. Banco de la Republica lowered
borrowing costs at each of its past two meetings as the
weakening global economy damped export demand.  Room to Cut  Investors will also be watching for Sept. 19 reports on
industrial output and retail sales to “get a better sense of
when that rate cut may come,” Lozano said.  In a presentation in Cartagena, Zarate also said Banco de
la Republica has room to cut rates should the outlook for global
economic growth worsen.  “If global growth worsens and there’s capital flight, what
we can do is lower the  interest rate , to facilitate domestic
spending,” Zarate said. “I think we are at a good starting
point to be able to respond to any external shock.”  Colombia’s inflation will end this year at 3 percent,
according to the median estimate in the central bank survey, up
from the previous month’s forecast of 2.95 percent. The central
bank targets inflation between 2 percent and 4 percent.  The peso rose after the  Federal Reserve  said it will buy
mortgage securities and keep interest rates “exceptionally
low” through the middle of 2015 to bolster the world’s biggest
economy.  The local currency climbed 0.5 percent to 1,793.83 per  U.S.
dollar . It has jumped 8.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  