-- Goldman CMBS Loan Signals Investors’ Growing Risk Appetite
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-09-13T16:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/commercial-mortgage-bond-sales-signal-growing-appetite-for-risk.html
Investors are devouring commercial-
mortgage bonds at the fastest pace since 2007, with a deal that
incorporates an underwriting practice that helped fuel the
bubble sold at the tightest relative yields in 18 months.  Wall Street  banks including Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp. have sold $1.25 billion of
the securities this week, according to people familiar with the
transactions who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t
public.  Wells Fargo & Co ., Royal Bank of  Scotland  Group Plc, UBS
AG, Barclays Plc and Deutsche Bank AG are marketing an
additional $2.34 billion in bonds, the people said.  Buyers are gravitating toward the debt even as lenders
include risker loans in new offerings. Citigroup and Goldman
Sachs sold about $1 billion of securities that include a $100
million mortgage for a tower in lower  Manhattan  that uses
projected rents for vacant space to calculate the building’s
income. The practice was common during the boom years leading up
to the property market crash in 2007.  “It’s not a trend we want to see,” said Lea Overby, a
debt strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York. Lenders
“are starting to push the envelope,” she said. “Underwriters
will push the market as much as buyers will let them.”  Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Citigroup, and  Michael DuVally  of Goldman Sachs, declined to comment.  222 Broadway  Citigroup and Goldman Sachs this week sold top-ranked bonds
maturing in 10 years yielding 100 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate, the tightest spread on such debt since
Wells Fargo and Royal Bank of Scotland sold similar securities
in February 2011, Nomura data show. The banks initially marketed
the bonds to pay as much as 115 basis points over the benchmark,
a person familiar with sale said.  The deal includes Goldman Sachs’s loan on 222 Broadway.
Bank of America, which takes up 75.8 percent of the building,
agreed to sell it to Beacon Capital Partners LLC and L&L
Holdings Co. in April. The property was 79.1 percent occupied as
of May 29, leaving 164,442 square-feet of empty space, according
to deal documents.  “We cannot assure you that the vacant space will be leased
up at the presumed market rates or at all,” Goldman Sachs and
Citigroup advised potential investors in a footnote in the
offering’s term sheet.  Pro Forma  So-called pro forma loans issued during the market’s peak
allowed borrowers to take on more debt on the assumption that
higher income in the future would be able to cover principal and
interest payments. Rents plummeted and vacancies climbed as the
recession crimped business and consumer spending, leading to a
surge in defaults.  Late payments on commercial mortgages packaged into bonds
soared past 10 percent this year, according to Wells Fargo
analysts. Loans written in 2007 are the worst performers, with
14.16 percent behind on payments, the analysts, led by Marielle Jan de Beur, said in an Aug. 28 report. A record $232 billion of
the securities were sold that year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The 222 Broadway loan is not as risky as the deals done in
2006 and 2007, as the building is mostly occupied and current
income covers debt payments, Nomura’s Overby said.  Not 2007  “It should perform for the next couple of years,” she
said. “What you are riding on is whether or not Bank of America
contracts and if they can lease it back up. It’s not the type of
thing we would like to see in a CMBS deal, but it’s not 2007 all
over again.”  Lower Manhattan’s class A office vacancy is climbing, and
may reach 17.4 percent by the end of next year from 8.8 percent
at the end of June, according to data from Cassidy Turley, a
commercial property brokerage with offices in New York. The  Port
Authority  of New York and  New Jersey  has about 45 percent of 3
million square feet at One World Trade Center still empty.  The 222 Broadway loan was a “moderately bold inclusion,”
said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $2 billion as chief
investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New
York. The underwriters “understand that what matters mainly
today is spread and to what extent it will be scrutinized by
investors.”  Sales of commercial-mortgage bonds are rising as investors
chase riskier assets with the  Federal Reserve  saying today that
it likely will hold its benchmark lending rate near zero at
least through mid-2015. September is forecast to be the busiest
month since issuance revived after coming to a halt amid the
2008 credit-market seizure, Deutsche Bank analysts led by Harris Trifon said in a Sept. 5 report.  Underwriting Standards  Wall Street has arranged $22 billion of the debt this year,
compared with $28 billion in all of 2011, Bloomberg data show.
At least $40 billion will likely be issued in 2012, Jefferies
Group Inc. analysts led by Lisa Pendergast said in a Sept. 11
report.  Underwriting standards have slipped “modestly” on loans
contained in the rush of deals, though bonds with investment-
grade ratings are “still well-insulated,” the Jefferies
analysts said. The most senior bonds on newly issued commercial-
mortgage bonds are built to withstand the first 30 percent of
losses before incurring principal losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  