-- Commodities Jump to Five-Month High as QE3 Boosts Metals
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-09-13T21:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/commodities-jump-to-5-month-high-as-fed-s-qe3-spurs-metal-rally.html
Commodities surged to a five-month
high after the  Federal Reserve  announced a third round of fiscal
measures to bolster the  U.S. economy , fueling expectations that
raw-material use will increase.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
rose 0.6 percent to settle at 687.22 at 3:59 p.m. New York time.
Earlier, the gauge reached 689.22, the highest since April 5.
The measure climbed for the sixth straight session, the longest
rally since July 19. Silver and gold gained the most in 10
weeks, leading the rally.  The Fed plans to expand holdings of long-term securities
with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage debt a
month. The benchmark  interest rate  probably will be held near
zero “at least through mid-2015,” the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said today. The GSCI index surged 92 percent from
December 2008 through June 2011 as the Fed bought $2.3 trillion
of debt in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing.  “That’s a commodity owner’s dream come true in terms of
open-ended quantitative easing,” Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who
helps manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management in
Birmingham,  Alabama , said in a telephone interview.  This year, the GSCI index has gained 6.6 percent. The  MSCI
All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of equities has climbed 12 percent and.
Treasuries returned 1.7 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
showed.  Gold Rally  Gold futures for December delivery jumped 2.2 percent to
settle at $1,772.10 on the Comex in  New York , the biggest gain
since June 29, as investors bought the metal as a hedge against
inflation. Earlier, the price reached $1,775, the highest for a
most-active contract since Feb. 29.  “Gold, in a way, is a pure currency, and that makes it the
most interesting and the most favored when we see this type of
situation” with quantitative easing, Sterling Smith, a futures
specialist at Citigroup Global Markets in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview.  Silver futures for December delivery jumped 4.5 percent to
$34.778 an ounce on the Comex, the biggest gain since June 29.
Earlier, the price reached $34.87, the highest since March 5.  The London Metal Exchange index, which includes aluminum,
copper, lead, nickel, zinc and tin, rose for the fifth straight
session, the longest rally in eight months.  Oil Advances  Crude oil advanced to a four-month high after the Fed move.
The commodity also got a boost from concern that protests in the
 Middle East  and North Africa may lead to supply disruptions.  “In the long run, this should be bullish because what they
are promising is the gradual increase in stimulus,” said Jason Schenker, the president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin,
Texas-based energy consultant. “The $40 billion of mortgage
debt each month will increase liquidity.”  Oil futures for October delivery advanced 1.3 percent to
$98.31 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since May 4.  Protesters tried to storm the U.S. Embassy in Sana’a,
Yemen. A Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi,
Libya, killed the American ambassador, Chris Stevens, and three
colleagues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in  Chicago  at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  