-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Advanced Last Week Most Since December
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-09-13T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-advanced-last-week-most-since-december.html
Consumer  confidence  in the U.S.
rose last week by the most since December as higher stock prices
made Americans more secure about their finances.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to a five-week
high of minus 42.2 in the period ended Sept. 9 from minus 46.5.
Forty-seven percent of respondents rated their finances
positively, the largest share since early August, after the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted its biggest weekly gain in
almost three months.  A growing number of households who consider their financial
situations sound may help maintain the pace of  consumer
spending , which makes up about 70 percent of the economy. At the
same time, persistent joblessness and rising gasoline prices may
limit the pace of purchases.  “The gain was apparently a function of increased stock
market performance,” said Richard Yamarone, a senior economist
at Bloomberg LP in  New York . “However, consumers are still
plagued by lofty unemployment and rising prices at the pump. The
index is struggling to improve, which does not bode well for
future consumer spending.”  The number of Americans filing applications for
 unemployment benefits  rose more than projected last week, the
Labor Department reported today.  Jobless claims  increased 15,000
in the week ended Sept. 8, the biggest gain in almost two
months, to 382,000. The four-week average, a less volatile
measure than the weekly figures, climbed to the highest in
almost two months.  Fed Meeting  Stocks were little changed as investors awaited a Federal
Reserve announcement that may initiate a new round of bond
buying to spur the economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
dropped less than 0.1 percent to 1,435.77 at 9:36 a.m. in New
York.  All three of the comfort index’s components improved last
week. The barometer of  personal finances  climbed to minus 6.2
from minus 13.5. The gauge of Americans’ views on the current
state of the  economy  rose to minus 72.4 last week from minus
75.4, and the  buying-climate  index increased to minus 47.9 from
minus 50.6.  The comfort gauge was still below minus 40, a level
“associated with deep economic discontent,” for the sixth
straight week, according to  Gary Langer , president of  New York- 
based Langer Research Associates, which compiles the index for
Bloomberg.  Comfort approached monthly highs among most demographics as
well. Those  earning more  than $100,000 annually were the most
confident of all income groups, with an index reading of minus
6.4, the strongest since Aug. 12. Midwesterners had the highest
optimism of all regions at minus 37.9, the best in eight weeks.  Ford Motor  “Economic fundamentals remain modest but stable,” Jenny
Lin, a senior U.S. economist at  Ford Motor Co. (F) , said during a
Sept. 4 sales teleconference. Ford car and light-truck sales
rose 13 percent last month, more than estimated. “ Consumer
confidence  is stable as compared to July. The housing sector
shows signs of revival.”  At the same time, the gains in payrolls are “still not
enough to generate significant declines in unemployment,” she
said. A Labor Department report showed last week that payrolls
rose less than projected in August, while the  unemployment rate 
dropped to 8.1 percent as Americans left the  labor force .  Another threat to consumers’ incomes, regular gasoline
prices have climbed to an average of $3.87 per gallon, up 54
cents since the start of July, according to AAA, the nation’s
largest motoring organization.  “The advance, fueled in particular just the past week,
comes despite a weak jobs report and still-rising gasoline
prices,” Langer said in a statement. “The question, with
political and economic portent alike, is where consumer
sentiment goes from here.”  Presidential Election  With the November presidential election drawing closer,
shifts in sentiment may shape the outcome. President  Barack Obama  is working to convince voters that they’re better off than
when he was elected four years ago. Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  is trying to make the case that they’re not and Obama’s
policies have failed.  Today’s report showed confidence improved among all three
political affiliations surveyed. Both Democrats and Independents
were the most optimistic in a month. Confidence was higher among
Democrats than Republicans for a record 25 straight weeks in
data back to mid-1990.  Another measure of consumer sentiment, the Gallup Economic
Confidence Index, climbed to minus 18 in the week ending Sept.
9, up 11 points from the prior period. Gallup said on its web
site that the Democratic National Convention may have boosted
optimism about the economy.  Republicans’ Sentiment  At the same time, the Bloomberg data showed that
Republicans’ sentiment last week climbed more than that of
Democrats or Independents.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  