-- Cordray Says Credit Cards Yield Fewer Complaints Than Expected
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-09-13T17:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/cordray-says-credit-cards-yield-fewer-complaints-than-expected.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau hasn’t fielded as many complaints about credit
cards as it anticipated when it began operating last year, its
director said.  “We have fewer complaints about credit cards than I would
have expected,”  Richard Cordray , the CFPB’s director, said
today at a hearing of the Senate Banking Committee, where he
presented the bureau’s semi-annual report to Congress.  The CFPB started a consumer response system on July 21,
2011, and began by taking complaints on credit cards. It
subsequently expanded the system to include mortgages on Dec. 1,
then bank accounts and services, private  student loans , and
consumer loans on March 1.  Cordray attributed the lower-than-expected volume of
complaints on credit cards to the Credit Card Accountability,
Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, which banned a number
of practices that Congress deemed abusive, and to the industry’s
efforts to improve  customer service .  As of Sept. 3, the bureau had received 72,297 complaints in
all categories, which he described as “a significant number and
a number that is increasing over time.” Complaints are now
flowing in at an annualized rate of 120,000 per year, and the
largest number deal with mortgages.  “We have no idea when that will level off or where it will
level off,” Cordray said.  Cordray praised the behavior of  Capital One Financial
Corp. (COF) , which concluded a $210 million settlement with CFPB and
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency in July.  Capital One “responded extremely responsibly to the
problem when it was identified,” Cordray said. “They were as
distressed and concerned as we were.”  A Warning  Cordray said the CFPB initiated the case, and said it
should serve as a warning to other credit card issuers
supervised by the agency to avoid similar practices. “We very
much want and intend for them to do that.”  Cordray also confirmed that the CFPB will write a
regulation on prepaid  debit cards . It asked interested parties
for comment on the business in May, and Cordray said the cards
available range from the “pretty responsible” to “pretty
terrible and definitely exploitative.”  “We are going to write rules on prepaid cards,” Cordray
said. “We are going to move forward in that area.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Carter Dougherty in
 Washington  at   cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds43@bloomberg.net . 