-- Corn Bulls in Retreat as Near-Record Costs Curb Demand
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a ,   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-09-14T16:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/corn-bulls-retreat-as-near-record-costs-curb-demand-commodities.html
Corn bulls are retreating after the
U.S. government said that the worst drought since 1956 will
damage the crop less than analysts had expected and on
speculation that near-record prices will curb demand.  Twelve of 28 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they
expect prices to fall next week. Eleven were bullish and five
were neutral. Bears outnumber bulls for the first time since
April. Corn has lost 2 percent this week, heading for the
biggest decline since June. Open interest, or outstanding
futures contracts, on the Chicago Board of Trade contracted 6.3
percent in the past three weeks.  Prices are retreating after jumping as much as 68 percent
in about two months, reaching a record $8.49 a bushel on Aug.
10. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said Sept. 12 global
demand will drop 0.9 percent in the 2012-2013 marketing year,
the first decline in 17 years. While the agency said U.S.
farmers will collect the smallest crop in six years, the
estimates for both production and stockpiles were greater than
the average prediction in a Bloomberg survey of as many as 35
analysts.  “Demand is at risk,” said Ole Hansen, the head of
commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen who has traded
 raw materials  for more than a decade. “With supply now more or
less known, the driver in the month ahead will be the demand
response to the high prices.”  Wheat Contracts  Corn rose 21 percent to $7.8275 this year, the sixth-
biggest advance in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI  gauge  of 24
commodities behind soybeans, two wheat contracts, silver and
cocoa. The index added 7.8 percent. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities gained 13 percent and Treasuries returned 1.7
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Global corn consumption will drop to 856.7 million metric
tons in the year starting Oct. 1, from 864.7 million tons a year
earlier, the USDA estimates. Livestock farmers will use 0.6
percent less corn in feed for animals than estimated in August,
leaving worldwide ending stocks 0.5 percent higher than
previously forecast at 123.9 million tons.  U.S. export sales for delivery before Aug. 31 slumped 30
percent to 10.032 million tons as of Sept. 6, the smallest for
that period since 2005, according to USDA data compiled by
Bloomberg. The USDA lowered its estimate for U.S. exports by 3.8
percent from a month earlier to 31.75 million tons, down 19
percent from a year earlier.  U.S. Midwest temperatures and precipitation in June and
July were the hottest and driest since 1936, according to
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . The biggest
U.S. corn-growing states are Iowa,  Illinois  and  Nebraska .  Northern Kansas  Freezing temperatures as far south as central Nebraska and
northern areas of Iowa and Illinois on Sept. 17, 18 and 21 may
reduce the quality of corn kernels, said  Drew Lerner , the
president of World Weather Inc. in  Overland Park ,  Kansas . Winds
gusting up to 35 miles an hour may cause some drought-weakened
corn plants to fall over, reducing yield potential, he said.  Prices may have to rise further before consumption is
constrained, Damien Courvalin, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in New York, wrote in a report Sept. 12. The bank expects
corn to trade at $9 in three months before retreating to $7.50
in 12 months. Crop conditions in the U.S. are the worst since
1988, with the harvest about 15 percent complete as of Sept. 9,
USDA data show.  Hedge funds  are still near their most bullish in about a
year, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data. While they cut their net-long position, or bets on higher
prices, by 8 percent in the week ended Aug. 28, they increased
them again by 2.6 percent the following week. They are now
holding a net 323,629 futures and options, compared with a six-
year average of 185,000 contracts, the data show.  Exports Canceled  China ’s imports may fall to 1 million tons in 2013, from
5.5 million tons this year, because of record prices, state-
owned researcher Grain.gov.cn said in a Sept. 13 report.
Importers from China canceled contracts, with weekly U.S. sales
to the Asian nation showing net cancellations at least four
times since July, the USDA data show. China is the world’s
second-biggest consumer of corn after the U.S.  Rising prices are also curbing demand from biofuel
producers. U.S. ethanol production slid to the lowest level
since the end of July in the week ended Sept. 7, Energy
Department data show. Producers are losing about 41 cents on
each gallon of ethanol, based on fuel and corn contracts for
December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. More U.S.
corn went to make ethanol than livestock feed in 2010-11 for the
first time ever.  USDA Forecast  Soybean traders are still bullish after the USDA forecast
the U.S. crop will fall to a nine-year low of 2.634 billion
bushels (71.69 million tons) and global consumption will rise
for a fourth straight year to a record. Fourteen of 27 people
surveyed anticipate higher prices next week and seven forecast a
decline. Soybeans rose 46 percent to $17.585 a bushel this year
and reached a record $17.89 on Sept. 4.  Twelve of 18 traders and analysts expect raw sugar to gain
next week and three were bearish. The commodity slipped 11
percent this year to 20.73 cents a pound on the ICE Futures U.S.
exchange in  New York .  Fifteen people surveyed said copper will rise next week and
seven predicted a drop, while two were neutral. The metal for
delivery in three months, the  London  Metal Exchange’s benchmark
contract, gained 10 percent to $8,382 a ton this year.  Twenty of 29 traders and analysts surveyed said gold would
rise next week, seven were bearish and two were neutral. Futures
on the Comex exchange in New York added 13 percent since the
start of January to $1,777.10 an ounce.  Bull Market  Holdings in exchange-traded products backed by the metal
expanded to a record 2,492.95 tons yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Hedge funds have raised their bets on higher
prices to the most in six months on expectations the U.S. will
add measures to boost growth, CFTC data show.  Raw materials entered a  bull market  last month after rising
more than 20 percent from their June low. Commodity assets under
management expanded to $406 billion in July, from $390 billion a
month earlier, Barclays Plc estimates.  “We’ve seen very strong commodity performance in terms of
agriculture and in some oil products, but other markets have
been much weaker, so overall things are leveling out,” said
 Kevin Norrish , a managing director for commodities research at
Barclays in London. “Longer-term it’s clear that there are
still plenty of investors who want to allocate to commodities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  