-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall to Five-Month Low After Fed Decision
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-09-13T21:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-to-five-month-low-after-fed-decision.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk dropped to the lowest level in more than five months after
the  Federal Reserve  said it will expand its holdings of long-
term mortgage securities in a bid to boost growth.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, fell 5.1 basis points to a mid-price of 85.8
basis points at 4:57 p.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level since March 19.  The measure declined as the U.S. central bank said it will
make monthly purchases of $40 billion of mortgage debt in a
third round of quantitative easing. Steps to boost the economy
may curb investor concern that companies will have difficulty
repaying debts.  The Fed needs to find new methods to encourage companies to
take risk, as “the transition mechanism has been severed for
some time,” Noel Hebert, chief investment officer of Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC, said in a
telephone interview. “It has not really been translating into
the real economy.”  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, has declined
from this year’s high of 127.5 on June 4. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, decreased 1.9 basis points to 13.75
basis points, the lowest level since April 2010. The measure
falls when investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and
rises when they seek the perceived safety of  government
securities .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 