-- Dangdang Jumps as Fed Stimulus Plan Boosts ADRs: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-09-13T21:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/dangdang-jumps-as-fed-stimulus-plan-buoys-adrs-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  traded in  New York 
rose the most in a month, with Internet companies leading gains,
after the  Federal Reserve  said it will buy mortgage securities
to bolster growth in the world’s biggest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in New York climbed 2.3 percent to 91.97
yesterday, the biggest advance since Aug. 6.  E-Commerce China
Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , known as Dangdang, jumped to the highest in a
month after Sina Corp.’s news service reported that its online
department store started a division providing phone bill payment
services.  China Telecom Corp. (CHA)  and  China  Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.
gained on prospects Apple Inc.’s iPhone 5 will help lure users.  The Fed said yesterday it will expand its holdings of long-
term securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of
mortgage debt a month. It also said it would probably hold the
federal funds rate near zero “at least through mid-2015.”
China’s central bank issued 28-day reverse-repurchase contracts
for the first time in a decade, extending the duration of its
fund injections into the banking system.  “The Fed is offering more stimulus, and risk assets,
 emerging markets , have reacted positively,”  Steven Bell , who
manages $600 million in assets as principal portfolio manager at
the GLC Ltd., said by phone yesterday from London. “The Chinese
recovery is under way, and later this year, we expect the
Chinese equity market to perform strongly.”  China ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 2.4 percent to a four-
week high of $34.58. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of the
biggest U.S. shares jumped 1.6 percent to 1,459.99, the highest
since December 2007.  American depositary receipts of Beijing-based Dangdang
jumped 6.5 percent to $5.41, the biggest rally since Aug. 6.  Dangdang started an online platform yesterday providing
services including phone bill payment, group purchases and
travel reservations, Sina’s news service  reported , citing an
unidentified head of the division.  Maria Xin, Dangdang’s investor relation manager, couldn’t
be reached by phone after normal business hours in Beijing. An
e-mail wasn’t immediately responded to.  Sina, which runs a Twitter-like Weibo service in China,
advanced for a third day, rising 3.9 percent to a five-month
high of $66.90.  Dangdang’s added services could be a new revenue stream for
the online retailer, while Sina offers growth potential as it is
further monetizing its Weibo service,  Adam Krejcik , an analyst
at Roth Capital Partners LLC, said yesterday by phone.  China Unicom Rises  ADRs of China Unicom, the nation’s first wireless carrier
offering iPhone service plans, surged 3.8 percent to a four-
month high of $17.21. The ADRs, each representing 10 underlying
shares in the company, traded 1.9 percent  above  its Hong Kong
shares, the widest premium since Aug. 23.  The mobile company is expected to start selling Apple’s
iPhone 5 within three months, China’s Caixin magazine reported
yesterday, citing an unidentified source with China Unicom.  Carl Howe , an analyst at Boston-based  Yankee Group , joined
analysts predicting that Apple will sell more than 10 million
iPhone 5s by month’s end, after the company unveiled the lighter
and speedier device Sept. 12 in San Francisco. That projection
would surpass the record set last year by the previous model,
the iPhone 4S.  ADRs of China Telecom, the smallest among the nation’s
three wireless carriers, advanced 4.2 percent to $62.54, the
highest level in 10 months. The company in March became the
second iPhone service provider in China after Unicom. The 1.9
percent premium in China Telecom’s ADRs over its  Hong Kong  stock
was the highest since Aug. 22.  Ambow Surges  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO) , a Beijing-based private
tutoring services provider, jumped 10 percent to $2.92, the
highest level since Sept. 4.  EVA Dimensions raised its  recommendation  on the stock
yesterday to overweight from hold. All of the company’s one-on-
one tutoring centers are legally registered with local
industrial registration agencies and tax bureaus, and the
company is not aware of any pending regulatory reviews, Beijing-
based Ambow said in a Sept. 6 statement. It said it doesn’t
expect any restatement of previous financial results.  The company tumbled 27 percent on Sept. 5 after saying in
an online statement it had started an internal investigation
following a report from China’s state television that its unit
exaggerated training results and that the schools’ registrations
were incomplete.  The Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  sank 0.8 percent, the most in
two weeks, to 2,110.38 yesterday. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies dipped 0.1 percent to
9,480.27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  