-- ECB Policy Maker Says Bank May Not Spend a Cent on Bonds
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-09-13T12:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/demetriades-says-ecb-may-never-need-to-buy-government-bonds.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Panicos Demetriades said the bank might not have
to spend a cent on  government bonds .  The threat of unlimited buying under the ECB’s new bond-
purchase program may mean that “in the end, action is not
needed,” Demetriades, who heads the Central Bank of Cyprus,
said in an interview in Nicosia yesterday. “No one will
speculate against the unlimited firepower of a central bank.
This is what stabilizes currencies of countries where investors
know that. One wouldn’t gamble against the  Federal Reserve , for
example.”  Spanish and Italian bond yields have plunged since ECB
President  Mario Draghi  pledged on July 26 to do what’s needed to
preserve the euro. Under Draghi’s so-called Outright Monetary
Transactions program, unveiled on Sept. 6, the ECB would spend
as much as needed to contain borrowing costs in euro-area
countries if they sign up to bailout conditions first.  “A central bank has this wonderful ability that no other
player in the market has when it says ‘I’m going to do whatever
it takes,’ and everyone believes that,” Demetriades said. “In
the end, they may do nothing.”  The ECB spent about 220 billion euros ($284 billion) under
its previous, limited, bond-buying program.  ‘Best-Case Scenario’  The euro fell after the comments were published before
recovering to trade at $1.2913 at 2:34 p.m. in  Frankfurt , up 0.1
percent on the day.  Italy  today sold 4 billion euros of its
benchmark three-year bond to yield 2.5 percent, the lowest rate
in almost two years.  “Demetriades is sketching out the ECB’s best-case
scenario, where they ensure financing for Spain and Italy at low
rates without spending a cent,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro
research at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “While this is a
possibility, I think it is more likely that the central bank
will need to intervene in the  bond market  eventually.”  Demetriades, 53, joined the ECB’s 23-member Governing
Council in May when he replaced  Athanasios Orphanides  as the
central banker for the euro area’s third-smallest economy.  Cyprus, which hosts a meeting of euro-area finance
ministers tomorrow, asked the European Union for a bailout in
June. Demetriades said he hopes one will be agreed “as soon as
possible,” though he doesn’t expect it to happen this month.  Rate Cuts  With the sovereign debt crisis pushing the 17-nation euro
economy to the brink of recession, the ECB cut its  benchmark 
rate to an historic low of 0.75 percent in July and lowered its
deposit rate to zero.  Asked whether the ECB could cut  interest rates  further,
Demetriades indicated the Governing Council may not be ready to
take the deposit rate into negative territory.  “Of course there are downside risks now, and when it comes
to next month’s decision we take on board all the developments
and decide accordingly,” he said. “I don’t think we are
technically ready for negative deposit rates, but I don’t see
that, in theory at least, as an obstacle.”  In the absence of “any” inflation risks, there’s no real
need for the ECB to sterilize any bond purchases by withdrawing
as much liquidity as it injects, Demetriades said.  “I think that discussion is overrated,” he said. “In the
current circumstances even if the ECB were not able to
sterilize, I don’t think it would make any significant
difference.”  Stiglitz Connection  Demetriades, a former World Bank official who worked under
Nobel Prize-winner  Joseph Stiglitz  in the aftermath of the Asian
financial crisis, said  Europe  needs to re-think its approach to
fiscal consolidation.  “We need to shift toward programs that emphasize more
growth,” he said. “Fiscal consolidation is more successful if
it does not hamper growth.”  Cyprus is seeking to avert the severity of austerity
measures that have crippled neighboring  Greece . Demetriades told
lawmakers on the eastern-Mediterranean island in July that the
banking sector may need more than 12 billion euros in external
aid. He said yesterday it’s premature to talk about numbers
“because we have to wait for the completion of the diagnostic
check by independent assessors.”  Banking Union  The EU yesterday unveiled proposals that would give the ECB
oversight of all euro-area banks. The central bank would become
the top-level supervisor, accruing powers including the ability
to fine non-compliant banks, issue banking licenses and instruct
lenders to carry out stress tests.  “What we need to do in the euro area is decouple sovereign
risk from bank risk,” Demetriades said. “For countries like
Cyprus with large banking systems, it is particularly important.
A central bank has to have powers. That’s critical for monetary
union. I don’t see that as a danger.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Nicosia at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  