-- Detroit Shows Wall Street Never Loses on Bad Swaps: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-09-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/detroit-shows-wall-street-never-loses-on-bad-swaps-muni-credit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the third-
largest muni-bond underwriter, stood to gain more than just its
share of $7.8 million in fees by helping  Detroit’s water and
sewer  unit issue new debt after the city staved off insolvency.  The municipal department’s $659.8 million June bond sale
let it pay more than $300 million to banks, including JPMorgan,
to end  interest-rate  swap agreements while raising its borrowing
cost. The utility, with 1,978 employees, plans to fire four of
every five workers, while debt service has climbed to more than
40 percent of revenue, internal documents show.  As cash-strapped cities from San Bernardino, California, to
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, grapple with insolvency, the Detroit
example shows that Wall Street banks never lose. That’s
especially true when it comes to arranging transactions to
escape distressed debt and swaps initially sold by the lenders.
Along with the fees, the deal helped banks such as  UBS AG (UBSN) , once
an underwriter of the debt, recover payments to terminate swaps.  “They’re paying huge amounts of money for interest-rate
transactions that have gone horribly wrong,” said  Michael Greenberger , an expert on derivatives at the University of
Maryland’s law school. “If this is a strategy that makes sense
to do, then you do it, and you hire a banker. You can’t just
walk to the corner store to underwrite bonds.”  Costly Swaps  Municipal borrowers from the  Metropolitan Water District of
Southern California  in  Los Angeles  to Italian towns and  Harvard
University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , have paid billions of
dollars to banks to end  interest-rate swaps  that didn’t protect
taxpayers from unforeseen changes in interest rates. In the bets
on borrowing costs, a municipal issuer and another party
exchange payments tied to interest-rate indexes.  Obligations linked to swaps initially sold by  Wall Street 
banks as hedges to save tax dollars have cost the Detroit
utility more than $500 million to unwind, an amount added to its
debt. Before paying $314 million to end some of the agreements
in June, it spent $222 million raised in a December 2011 bond
sale to end others.  The money used to unwind the swaps would almost cover the
utility’s $571.7 million in planned  capital spending  for the
five years through June 2016, according to bond documents. Or it
would be enough for the sewer system’s $519.8 million fiscal
2013 budget, with millions to spare.  Separate Entity  The department, while a part of a city that’s under state
fiscal oversight, operates as a separate entity with its own
board and serves areas outside the municipality. It provides
water to 3.8 million people in Detroit and 124 other
communities, as well as sewerage to 2.8 million people in the
city and 76 more cities and towns.  Beyond the utility’s cost to end the swaps, it bought back
auction-rate securities at a premium from proceeds of its bond
sale in June and is paying a higher interest rate on the debt it
sold to raise the money for the purchases. Trading in the bonds
shows that the borrowing through a deal lead-managed by  Goldman
Sachs & Co. (GS)  cost the city more than was necessary, because the
price was too low.  “Detroit has a bad history in the  bond market ,” said John
Riehl, president of the local public-workers union and a senior
sewage plant operator for the utility. “They’ve done some
foolish things over the years.”  No Comments  Naomi Patton, a spokeswoman for Mayor Dave Bing, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment on Detroit’s
borrowing history and referred questions about the June sale to
utility officials.  Matthew Schenk, the utility’s chief operating officer, and
James George, assistant finance director, didn’t respond to at
least two telephone calls seeking comment on the deals. Tiffany Galvin, a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman, and Elizabeth Seymour of
New York-based JPMorgan, also an underwriter, both declined to
comment.  Karina Byrne , a UBS spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a
request for comment. Another swap counterparty whose agreement
was terminated in June was Loop Financial Products.  The transaction in June added to the utility’s financial
pressures at a time when Detroit was trying to avoid insolvency
that could have forced it to default on its debt. The city’s
predicament added to the department’s reasons to get out from
under the swaps.  Termination Triggers  Under terms of the derivative deals, appointment of a
review team by the state to oversee the city’s finances was one
event that could trigger termination and require the utility to
make payments to unwind its swaps, according to bond documents.  The department’s June bond sale stalled after  Fitch Ratings 
put the city’s credit score into junk status, citing a potential
default on a bond payment due that month. A lawsuit pitting
Detroit against  Michigan  over a financial rescue plan also
threatened to interrupt state aid.  The legal dispute involved a challenge to the fiscal plan
brought by Krystal Crittendon, the city’s corporation counsel.
Governor  Rick Snyder ’s administration said that if Crittendon’s
suit wasn’t dropped, the state would withhold $80 million, which
may have led to a default. The lawsuit was dismissed June 13,
and the water and sewer utility sold its bonds June 18.  The utility needed to borrow the money because cuts to
Detroit’s ratings also had made it possible for the swap
counterparties to force the utility to make termination
payments. The counterparties decided to allow the department
some time to raise the money, according to bond documents.  Too Cheap  Some of the debt initially issued may have been sold too
cheaply, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prices of the
bonds rose by as much as 8 percent in the weeks after the sale,
as yields fell, according to the data, which come from the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.  A $292.8 million portion maturing in July 2039 priced at
par to yield 5.3 percent on June 18. By July 18, it was trading
at as much as 108 cents on the dollar, for an average yield of
about 4.4 percent. Yields, which move inversely to price, fell
on more than two-thirds of the bonds within a month of the sale,
according to the data.  Even though some of the debt was backed by  Assured Guaranty
Ltd. (AGO) , parts were priced at higher interest rates than similarly
rated debt. The $50 million insured portion maturing in 27 years
offered a yield of 5 percent, even though  generic 30-year  bonds
with three years longer to mature were priced at about 4.28
percent, or 0.72 percentage point lower. One month later, the
yields on the generic bonds had fallen to 4.18 percent. At the
same time, yields on AAA munis fell from 3.54 percent on June 18
to 3.35 percent on July 18.  Auction-Rate Debt  Part of the bonds refinanced were so-called auction-rate
securities, a long-term debt with interest rates that reset at
weekly or monthly intervals. The issuer accepted tenders for
about $51 million of about $70 million of the securities, paying
90 cents on the dollar, according to related bond documents.  Before the buyback, the bonds traded from 61.3 cents to
71.7 cents on the dollar, according to trade data compiled by
Bloomberg. In a tender offer, investors tell the issuer what
prices they’re willing to take to sell back their securities.  The auction-rate debt had been converted in January from
traditional fixed-rate bonds with a 4.33 percent yield,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. After the conversion,
the auctions failed as no buyers stepped forward, while the
securities reset to yield less than 1 percent, under terms of
the transactions.  Higher Costs  Subsequent to the refinancing, the utility has been paying
yields of 1.7 percent to 5.3 percent on the new debt, part of
which was used to retire the auction-rate securities. The new
bonds, issued to take out the debt with rates that reset
periodically, have increased the department’s costs.  Yields on 10-year top-rated municipals at 1.75 percent  fell 
below interest rates of comparable-maturity Treasuries yesterday
for the first time since mid-May, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Treasury 10-year note yields rose to a three-week high of
1.76 percent at 5 p.m. yesterday in  New York  trading, according
to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The water and sewer department is moving ahead with a plan
to restructure the utility as recommended by EMA Inc., a  St.
Paul , Minnesota, consulting firm, the city announced on Sept.
11. Proposed in August, the  plan  would cut employment to 374
from the current 1,978 through outsourcing and redesigning jobs.
The changes would save more than $138 million a year.  Overhaul Needed  The overhaul is needed because of increasing debt and
personnel costs, a reduction in the system’s reliability and the
loss of customers, Sue McCormick, the utility’s director, said
in  a presentation  in August. Increased rates for customers
aren’t part of the plan, according to the presentation, which
suggests that current prices are higher than the industry norm.  “We have a huge mortgage on the system based on capital
borrowing,” McCormick said. “We have a compelling case to
reduce our costs.”  The cuts in the number of workers will likely curb
performance by the utility, said Riehl, the union president.
“Service to the community will go down,” he said.  The new debt from the cost of unwinding swaps is a
“burden,” said Maryland’s Greenberger.  “Banks are not charitable, but this deal probably stops
the bleeding,” Greenberger said.“They never should have
entered these deals in the first place.”  Following are pending sales:  OMAHA PUBLIC POWER DISTRICT in  Nebraska  plans to sell $550
million of tax-exempt bonds as soon as next week to refund debt,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. (Updated Sept. 12)  CONNECTICUT is set to issue $570 million of general-
obligation debt as soon as next week for capital projects,
according to offering documents. (Added Sept. 12)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  