-- Dollar Falls to 4-Month Low Versus Euro on Fed; Yen Lower
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-14T21:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/dollar-is-near-4-month-low-against-euro-after-fed-expands-easing.html
The dollar fell to a four-month low
against the euro on Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
plan to conduct open-ended quantitative easing, a process that
tends to debase the U.S. currency.  The U.S. currency was set for the longest stretch of weekly
of losses against the 17-nation euro since October 2010 amid the
new round of monetary stimulus. The yen fell against all of its
16 most-traded peers after Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  signaled
he’s ready to intervene to weaken the currency. The Swedish
krona fell after quarterly economic growth was revised down.  “The fact that the Fed has instated an open-ended purchase
of assets is driving risk appetite,” Charles St-Arnaud, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. “QE is negative for the local
currency, which is why we’re seeing the dollar weaker across the
board.”  The dollar fell 1.1 percent to $1.3130 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time, after touching $1.3169, the weakest level since
May 4. The yen dropped 1.2 percent to 78.39 per dollar after
strengthening to 77.13 yesterday, a level unseen since Feb. 9.
The euro climbed 2.2 percent to 102.93 yen, after reaching
103.02, the highest since May 14.  Position Data  Futures traders boosted aggregate bets the dollar would
fall against eight major currencies to a 13-month high. Net-bets
for a dollar decline were 228,176 in the week ended Sept. 11, up
72 percent from 132,997 the previous week, according to
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data compiled by Bloomberg.
That is the highest since Aug. 5, 2011.  The greenback posted its fifth straight weekly decline
against the euro, losing 2.5 percent. The euro has risen 2.7
percent against  Japan ’s currency.  The euro rose for a fourth day against the greenback as
 Europe ’s finance ministers and central-bank officials gathered
in Cyprus for a two-day meeting starting today to discuss the
next steps in addressing the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said last week that
policy makers agreed on an unlimited debt-buying program to
address region’s debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency’s 14-day relative strength index
climbed to 79.72, its fourth straight daily increase, after
exceeding 70 on Sept. 11. A reading above 70 signals an asset
may have rallied too far, too quickly and is due for a
correction.  Euro Forecasts  Morgan Stanley raised its year-end forecast for the euro to
$1.34 from $1.19, while  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  increased its
three-month projection to $1.23 from $1.17. The shared currency
will finish the year at $1.23, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey of 48 analysts.  “The dollar is on a weaker trajectory going into the
fiscal cliff,” Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in  London , said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg - The First Word” with Ken Prewitt. “It’s the two-
pronged impact of both a better tone in the  euro zone  and weak
dollar action that’s really propelling euro-dollar right now.”
The fiscal cliff refers to U.S. budget negotiations, including
automatic tax increases and spending cuts that may be triggered
pending deficit-reduction efforts.  Switzerland ’s franc fell for a third day against the euro.
The cost of options granting the right to buy the shared
currency against the franc climbed above the price allowing for
sales for the first time since April 4. The  Swiss National Bank 
announced yesterday it would  maintain  its 1.20 limit against the
shared currency.  The franc dropped 0.2 percent to 1.2175 per euro after
earlier declining to 1.2178, its lowest level since Jan. 6.  Sweden’s Economy  The krona weakened against the euro after second quarter
gross domestic product growth was revised down to an annual 1.3
percent from an earlier 2.3 percent estimate.  The krona fell 0.8 percent to 8.6050 per euro.  The Fed said it will expand its holdings of long-term
securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion a month of
mortgage debt in a third round of quantitative easing. The U.S.
central bank will continue buying assets, undertake additional
purchases and employ other policy tools as appropriate “if the
outlook for the labor market does not improve substantially,”
the  Federal Open Market Committee  said yesterday in a statement.  The FOMC said it would probably hold the federal funds rate
near zero “at least through mid-2015.” Since January, the Fed
had said the rate was likely to stay low at least through late
2014.  Fed View  “There was some uncertainty whether the Fed would pull the
trigger this month,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of foreign-
exchange strategy at  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ¼in
London. “While everyone knew it was coming, the timing was a
little bit up in the air so it’s caused a bit of a reaction.
There’s risk-on trading and the path of least resistance seems
to be a dollar selloff. It’s tough to stand in the face of a
weakening dollar trend.”  The  Dollar Index , which  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, declined 0.5 percent to 78.852, after touching
78.601, the lowest since Feb. 29.  The gauge slumped as much as 19 percent as the Fed bought
$2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt in the first two
rounds of QE from December 2008 to June 2011.  Japan’s Azumi told reporters today that he’ll take
“decisive action” if necessary. The FOMC decision reflects
concern about the  U.S. economy , which he’s watching
“carefully,” he said.  Azumi ordered the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to sell yen in markets on
Oct. 31 after the yen strengthened to a postwar record of 75.35
per dollar.  Yen Questions  The country’s Vice Finance Minister Takehiko Nakao declined
to comment today on the yen.  “The stakes are raised for the BOJ meeting next week,”
 Mary Nicola , a New York-based currency strategist at BNP Paribas
SA, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch
Money” with Sara Eisen. “There’s going to be a lot of
speculation that we could see some sort of reaction from the BOJ
to do something on the monetary side so they can weaken the
yen.”  The BOJ is unlikely to step in until the yen appreciates to
77 versus the greenback, according to Nomura’s St-Arnaud, who
said the bank is “still relatively far away from
intervention.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  