-- Dollar Weakens as Fed Joins ECB to Increase Monetary Stimulus
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-13T21:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/dollar-weakens-versus-yen-after-fed-adds-to-monetary-stimulus.html
The dollar fell versus most its
major counterparts after the  Federal Reserve ’s plan to begin a
third round of asset purchases to bolster the economy raised
concern the measure will debase the value of the U.S. currency.  The U.S. currency weakened to a four-month low against the
euro and seven-month low versus the yen as the central bank said
it will expand its holdings of long-term securities with open-
ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage debt a month.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said last week that
policy makers had agreed on an unlimited debt-buying program for
the region. Canada’s dollar and Mexico’s peso advanced as stocks
and commodities rallied on increased demand for riskier assets.  “While this and the ECB actions were expected by the
markets, it is helping the market to move away from two key
risks, namely the financing of the U.S. and peripheral risks in
Europe,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York. “With these twin
tail risks disappearing, the market is rushing again to sell the
 U.S. dollar  and move back into equities and, to a lesser extent,
credit.”  The dollar fell 0.5 percent to 77.49 yen at 5 p.m. in New
York. The U.S. currency lost as much as 0.9 percent, touching
the weakest level since Feb. 9. It dropped 0.7 percent to
$1.2991 per euro, weakening beyond $1.30 for the first time
since May 9. The shared currency rose 0.3 percent 100.67 yen.  Yen Strength  The yen reached a seven-month high versus the dollar,
prompting speculation Japanese policy makers may consider market
intervention to curb the strength.  Japan’s Vice Finance Minister Takehiko Nakao told reporters
in  Tokyo  today the recent surge in the yen against the dollar
has been “obviously speculative” and that Japan can’t overlook
such moves.  “The intent is to bring long term U.S. yields down -- that
should weigh on dollar-yen and push it lower,” said  Greg Anderson , the North American head of G-10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in New York. “The only mitigating factor if
equities rally then that helps dollar-yen a little bit. It will
put a little bit more pressure on the minister of finance and
we’ll see how they respond.”  Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  ordered currency
intervention on Oct. 31, after the yen strengthened to a post-
war record 75.35 per dollar.  Dollar Level  The  Dollar Index  fell a third day, declining 0.6 percent to
79.255. It touched 79.180, the lowest since May 4.  “The Dollar Index is very oversold, with weekly relative
strength indices and stochastic back to 2008-2012 levels, which
have preceded explosive rebounds,” Callum Henderson, global
head of currency research at  Standard Chartered  in Singapore,
wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Stochastics, a technical analysis tool based on momentum
measures, are often used to identify whether a security’s price
is overbought or oversold.  The Dollar Index tumbled 1.3 percent on Nov. 25, 2008 when
the central bank first committed funds to quantitative easing.
It was little changed on Aug. 27, 2010, when Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  hinted intent for a second round of monetary easing in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . It fell 6.8 percent between then and Nov.
1 of that year when the purchases began.  FOMC Report  “If the outlook for the labor market does not improve
substantially, the committee will continue its purchases of
agency mortgage-backed securities, undertake additional asset
purchases and employ its other policy tools as appropriate,”
the  Federal Open Market Committee  said today in a statement at
the end of a two-day meeting in  Washington .  The FOMC said it would probably hold the federal funds rate
near zero “at least through mid-2015.” Since January, the Fed
had said the rate was likely to stay low at least through late
2014. The Fed said “a highly accommodative stance of monetary
policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the
economic recovery strengthens.”  While the U.S. has “enjoyed broad  price stability ” since
the mid-1990s, the employment situation remains a “grave
concern,” Bernanke said at a press conference after the
statement. “The weak job market should concern every
American.”  Economic Forecast  FOMC participants upgraded their estimate for 2013 gross
domestic product growth to 2.5 percent to 3 percent, compared
with 2.2 percent to 2.8 percent in June. Estimates for 2014 are
from 3 percent to 3.8 percent, versus 3 percent to 3.5 percent
in the previous forecast, according to the central tendency
forecasts, which exclude the three highest and three lowest of
19 projections.  “The Fed’s actions are very bullish for risk,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG in New York. “The idea of targeting a lower
 unemployment rate  promises massive long-standing balance sheet
expansion that will probably go well beyond what is seen by
other central banks.”  The ruble extended gains against the dollar after the
country’s central bank raised the refinancing rate to 8.25
percent from 8 percent, the first increase since April 2011. The
overnight auction-based repurchase rate will rise to 5.5 percent
from 5.25 percent and the overnight deposit rate to 4.25 percent
from 4 percent, effective tomorrow.  The currency rose 0.8 percent to 31.2321 per dollar. It
gained 0.7 percent to 40.3204 per euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  