-- DoubleLine’s Gundlach Sees No New Lost Decade for Stocks
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-09-13T19:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/doubleline-s-gundlach-sees-no-new-lost-decade-for-stocks.html
Jeffrey Gundlach , chief executive
officer of DoubleLine Capital LP, said stocks won’t repeat the
poor performance they had from 2000 to 2010.  “Equities may be challenged in the near term,” Gundlach
said today at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in New York. “But
I doubt you’re going to have this lost decade or lost 15 years
of equities again.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) , the benchmark index for
large U.S. stocks, fell 14 percent from the beginning of 2000
through the end of 2010, failing to replicate long-term historic
gains. Gundlach is considering adding stock funds to the bond
lineup at DoubleLine, he said earlier this week.  “I like the way equities are out of favor and I like doing
things when they’re unpopular,” he said in a telephone
interview Sept. 11. “Equities are a superior investment to
bonds for an inflation hedge and I like the ability to diversify
and broaden the firm.”  U.S. Treasury 30-year bonds have “incredible downside,”
Gundlach said at today’s event. The  Federal Reserve  didn’t
include  U.S. government debt  as part of a third round of asset
purchases, and its rate-setting committee pledged to keep
monetary policy accommodative even when the economy strengthens.  Stocks in China are a better bet than stocks in the S&P 500
Index, Gundlach said. Equities in European countries such as
Spain were attractive in May and investors should sell them now,
he said.  DoubleLine, founded by Gundlach and President Philip Barach
in December 2009 and based in Los Angeles, has more than $40
billion in assets. The $32 billion  DoubleLine Total Return Bond
Fund (DBLTX)  returned 7.3 percent this year through yesterday, beating
96 percent of peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  