-- The Fed Has Done Its Part, Now It's Congress's Turn
-- B y   D e b o r a h   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-09-13T18:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/the-fed-has-done-its-part-now-it-s-congress-s-turn.html
You've got to give  Ben Bernanke  an A for effort. After months of  signaling , the  Federal Reserve  pulled two guns out of its
arsenal today:  committing  to a new, open-ended round of bond buying that will
continue until the economy shows signs of improving, and promising to keep
interest rates low through at least mid-2015. In other words, the Fed will step on the gas for as long as it takes to jump-
start the economic recovery. That's already set tails wagging, given we're less than two months from a
presidential election in which the economy is expected to be the deciding
factor. But no matter to Bernanke --  Mitt Romney , the Republican presidential
nominee, has already  said  he won't reappoint the Republican central banker to
another term. Still, it's unclear how quickly -- or even to what  degree  -- the Fed's move
will have an impact. On Thursday, the Fed said it would buy $40 billion of  mortgage debt  a month
until the economy improves -- an important distinction from previous efforts
since it means the Fed will stay in the game for an indefinite period of time.
When combined with  Operation Twist  -- in which the Fed swaps short-term bonds
for longer-term securities -- the central bank will pump about $85 billion into
the economy each month through year-end. The actions "should put downward pressure on longer-term  interest rates ,
support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more
accommodative," the Fed said in its statement. Bernanke's belief is that
flooding the market with cheap credit will incentivize consumers to spend and
businesses to invest and hire. Yet Bernanke himself has said monetary policy can only do so much, a position
with which many economists agree. Interest rates, including  mortgage rates , are
already incredibly low, yet consumers and businesses remain reluctant to spend.
One reason is that consumers are still trying to  deleverage  from the heady pre-
financial-crisis days and aren't keen to load up on debt, no matter how cheap it
may be to finance a house, a car or other big-ticket item. Businesses are
sitting on huge sums of cash as they worry about demand and the inability of
policymakers to deal with the very real fiscal problems threatening to  throw
the economy back into recession. The Fed's statement makes clear how far the economy still has to go, citing
sluggish job growth, an "elevated"  unemployment rate  and a slowdown in business
investment. By making its bond purchases open-ended, the Fed is sending a
message to the market that it will be there as long as necessary, a commitment
that helped send stocks higher after the announcement. But the overall impact,
while helpful, is unlikely to solve the economy's  broader  woes. The answer to that riddle lies with Congress, which needs to enact some type
of short-term stimulus to give consumers confidence to spend while dealing with
the fiscal problems that threaten to inflict huge pain on the U.S. in the long-
run. Today's move shows Bernanke is willing to do what it takes to get the
economy moving, but he can only do so much. Like it or not, true economic
salvation rests with Congress. ( Deborah Solomon  is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial board.  Follow 
her on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .  