-- Lear Gets Brutal Makeover; Ibsen Love Trap: London Stage
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-09-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/lear-gets-brutal-makeover-ibsen-love-trap-london-stage.html
Jonathan Pryce turns and stares
with crazy eyes and an insane smile twisted across his face.  “Let me not be mad,” he whimpers. “Not mad, sweet
heaven.” His voice is barely more than a whisper.  The subtly underplayed line from “ King Lear ,” at the end
of Act I, shows Pryce’s command of one of Shakespeare’s most
demanding roles. Lear has to lurch from composure to craziness.
It’s hard to do convincingly or without overacting.  On the whole, Pryce gets it right. Lear’s judgment goes
askew near the start as he divides his kingdom between his three
daughters. He favors the insincere flatterers Regan and Goneril
over plain-loving Cordelia.  Pryce’s boiling rage gets a little overcooked at that
point, but he then settles into a magnificent low-key portrayal.
It isn’t quite up there with  Derek Jacobi ’s stunning performance
at the Donmar Warehouse and  New York  last year. Yet has much of
the complexity brought to the part by Jacobi’s fellow theatrical
knights  Michael Gambon  and  Ian McKellen .  The production by Michael Attenborough, part of the World
Shakespeare Festival, is kept simple at  London ’s  Almeida
Theatre . There are plenty of crashes and flashes for the storm
scene as Lear yells, “Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks!”  The brutality becomes all the more chilling when he turns
the volume down a notch or two and just glowers at the audience.  Clive Wood is a memorable Earl of Gloucester. Those of
nervous disposition should look away during his blinding scene.  It’s also rare to see a genuinely funny Shakespearean fool.
Trevor Fox has some neat magic tricks. Rating: ****.  ‘Hedda Gabler’  Another lengthy play with a strong central character is
Henrik Ibsen’s little-staged “Hedda Gabler.”  Hedda is an early feminist. She’s also headstrong,
demanding and bossy.  At the same time she’s a fragile victim of fortune, a
vulnerable little girl. Sheridan Smith tries to capture both
sides of her personality in Anna Mackmin’s Old Vic production.  It’s a difficult task in the face of a wooden plot. Hedda
is trapped in a boring bourgeois marriage after a “bad
honeymoon.”  Ibsen has a reputation for strong female parts, though
Hedda is outshone by her insufferably pompous husband George
(Adrian Scarborough). His childlike glee over a pair of
embroidered slippers and a promised professorship are hilarious.
The comic manipulations of lecherous Judge Brack (Darrell
D’Silva) also prevent the play from getting too serious.  The new translation by Brian Friel is a joy, with jokes
about the “exceedingly naughty” Judge “making whoopee.”  We can see this is going to get violent two hours before it
happens, as soon as Hedda reveals she has kept guns. Then
endless diversions and domestic politics slow the plot. It’s a
long wait for the inevitable bad end. Rating: ***.  “King Lear” is at the Almeida Theatre, Almeida Street,
Islington, N1 1TA, through Nov. 3. The production is sponsored
by Coutts. Aspen is the Almeida’s principal partner.
Information:  http://www.almedia.co.uk  or +44-207-359-4404.  “Hedda Gabler” is at the Old Vic, 103 The Cut, SE1 8NB,
through Nov. 10. Information:  http://www.oldvictheatre.com  or
+44-844-871-7628.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Lewis Lapham 
on history and  Zinta Lundborg’s  New York weekend.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 