-- Heart Attack Is No Reason to Disappear in China
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-09-13T21:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/heart-attack-is-no-reason-to-disappear-in-china-william-pesek.html
What does it say about China when
the man seen as the next president disappears for 13 days and
leadership circles pretend nothing is amiss? The answer is that
officials in Beijing still cling to their Kremlin-like ways.  It is one thing for  Ethiopia , with $32 billion of output,
to be mired in similar intrigue (Prime Minister Meles Zenawi was
confirmed dead last month after weeks of rumors and conspiracy
theories). It is quite another when it takes place in a country
whose economy might surpass the U.S. this decade and whose
government has designs on dominating global affairs.  No one will say where Vice President  Xi Jinping  is. These
events should serve as a useful reminder to anyone who thought
that as China advances on the global stage, the government would
adopt international norms of transparency. Instead, we get fresh
reminders of China’s enduring obscurantism, whether in economic
statistics or ingredients in food, to the business dealings of
the country’s most powerful officials and their families.  Behind the veneer of gleaming skyscrapers, Louis Vuitton
shops, late-model Audis and swanky Italian cafes, the heart of
Chinese power is still a fear-driven, command-and-control
ideology that has more in common with 1970s Soviet Russia than
with a consumer-driven 21st-century economy. China is new and
flashy on the surface, but underneath it is the  Lubyanka  and the
Gulag, driven by insecurity and paranoia at the top.  Acting Irresponsibly  This latest episode is an exercise in irresponsibility. If
Xi has health problems (possibly a heart attack, according to
press reports), then tell us. If Xi is fine, tell us. What we
are getting now feeds a storyline from a John le Carre Cold War
novel or an Alfred Hitchcock movie.  Back in 1993, there was nothing but silence when  Li Peng ,
then China’s premier, had a heart attack and disappeared for six
weeks. What if 19 years later China still hasn’t learned that it
isn’t the event or deed that causes trouble, but the coverup?
When  Kim Jong Il , the former “dear leader” of  North Korea ,
disappeared here and there, it was interesting though not very
significant. When China’s No. 2 is AWOL, hedge-fund managers get
involved.  In recent days, Xi, 59, missed meetings with U.S. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton , Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and other dignitaries. Yesterday, the Communist Party
seemed to make efforts to downplay speculation about Xi’s
absence. State-run media reported that he joined other top
officials in sending condolences to the family of a party member
who died on Sept. 6.  “Of course, this doesn’t allay people’s suspicions about
whether he will be a physically fit general secretary,” Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of history at the  Chinese
University  of  Hong Kong , told  Bloomberg News .  The 10 years under President  Hu Jintao  have amounted to a
great leap backward politically. China’s social compact with its
1.3 billion people is simple: We raise your  living standards  and
you don’t head to  Tiananmen Square  with protest banners. Yet
China’s institutional rigidities have deepened, leaving it ill-
equipped to cope when something doesn’t go according to plan or
the world shifts beneath its feet.  In such a growth-at-all-costs society, whom do you trust?
China wants to become a testing ground for medical companies.
Yet the flourishing trade in tainted baby powder and fake
medicine gives pause. It wants to sell high-speed trains, cars,
aircraft and solar panels to the world. Yet business and finance
have to be based on a degree of trust in data, disclosure, the
integrity of counterparties and the inviolability of contracts.
This is a fundamental flaw in the China model that can’t be
papered over.  Seeking Respect  China wants the world to give credence to its territorial
claims in  Asia . Then it becomes defensive when regional
neighbors object to assertions of sovereignty that extend
hundreds of miles south from China’s Hainan Island to the
equatorial waters off the coast of Borneo.  The transparency time warp is unacceptable for a nation
with a permanent United Nations Security Council seat and veto
privileges. In 1971, when Lin Biao, then China’s heir apparent,
was killed in a plane crash, the Communist Party waited two
months to tell everyone. It is one thing for such black-box
opacity in the days of  Mao Zedong . But in 2012?  Reading from North Korea’s playbook won’t cheer investors.
Speculators tend not to make lots of money betting against
China. Yet China’s economic influence is advancing infinitely
faster than the maturation of its political system.  Now, the world is complicating China’s efforts to maintain
the economic momentum needed to avoid social unrest. There’s
increasing evidence that China’s 7.6 percent growth will slow
further.  Should China end 2012 at today’s pace, it would be the
slowest expansion since 1990 and put the onus on Xi and China’s
other soon-to-be-named leaders to act quickly and creatively. As
the outlook darkens, the world would love to ask Xi for his
views on  China ’s fast-mounting challenges. We just need to find
him first.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  