-- Gasoline Sinks as Demand Falls, Plants Start After Isaac
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-09-13T20:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/heating-oil-gains-on-tight-supplies-fed-stimulus-hopes.html
Gasoline tumbled to a one-week low
as consumption declined and refinery startups indicated fuel
production will increase, boosting supplies.  Futures fell 1.3 percent as  demand  slid 5.3 percent last
week, according to Energy Department data. Gulf Coast refineries
are restarting after Hurricane Isaac. Philadelphia Energy
Solutions has started a fluid catalytic cracker at the largest
plant near  New York  Harbor, the delivery point for Nymex
futures. Prices sank as much as 3 percent after the  Federal
Reserve  announced plans for further economic stimulus.  “We lost nearly 500,000 barrels a day in demand last
week,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition
Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “As we move further away from
driving season, the expectation is demand is going to continue
to taper off and there is going to be ample gasoline.”  October-delivery reformulated gasoline, or RBOB, fell 3.94
cents to settle at $2.9622 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Gasoline’s discount to October heating oil widened
3.55 cents to 24.91 cents, its worst performance since Feb. 7.  Gasoline touched $2.9126, the lowest level since Aug. 6,
after the Fed said it will expand its holdings of long-term
securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month in a bid to boost growth and reduce unemployment.
Commodities have gained in recent weeks amid growing expectation
of additional stimulus.  “The Fed statement is muted and people may be taking
profit off the table,”  Hamza Khan , an analyst at the Schork
Group Inc., a consulting company in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  Motiva Norco  Motiva Enterprises LLC is running its Norco, Louisiana,
refinery at normal rates for the first time since Aug. 30,
according to two people familiar with refinery operations.
 Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  said today it has returned its St. Charles
refinery to planned rates.  Delta Air Lines Inc.’s Monroe Energy LLC subsidiary will
soon produce fuel at the Trainer, Pennsylvania, plant it bought
from ConocoPhillips, adding additional supply to the market.  “Demand for gasoline fell off substantially as we have
exited the summer gasoline driving season,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “With the
return of the Sunoco cat and anticipated start of the Monroe
Trainer refinery, the market expects RBOB supplies to improve
substantially.”  Lower Demand  Consumption typically drops after the Labor Day holiday,
which fell this year on Sept. 3. Emissions specifications in
fuel loosen after the summer, making the fuel cheaper to produce
and expanding available supply.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 1.1 cents to $3.869 a gallon yesterday, AAA data
showed. That’s the highest level since April 20. The year-to-
date high is $3.936, reached on April 4.  Heating oil for October delivery fell 0.39 cent to settle
at $3.2113 a gallon on the exchange.  Prices earlier touched $3.248, the highest intraday level
since April 3, as distillate supplies are 19 percent below year-
earlier levels and the lowest for this time of year since 2004,
according to Energy Department data.  “Heating oil is being supported by relatively low
inventories,” Lipow said. “For now, the oil market backing off
on less-than-expected quantitative easing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 