-- Leaving Home at Any Price Lures Investors to Student Houses
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-09-14T16:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/leaving-home-at-any-price-lures-investors-to-u-k-student-houses.html
Property investors love students
like Luke Redhead.  The 18-year-old will begin a course at the Liverpool
Institute for  Performing Arts  this month, renting a room in a
downtown student residence operated by  Unite Group Plc (UTG)  for about
100 pounds ($160) a week. He’ll also spend thousands of pounds
on tuition fees during the academic year after the government
tripled the maximum amount universities are allowed to charge.  “Taking on more debt worries me a bit, but I’m hoping to
follow my dreams and that this course pays off,” said Redhead,
who will embark on foundation studies in acting.  Students prepared to pay a premium to live with their peers
in city-center locations are proving a bonanza for companies
like Unite, the U.K.’s biggest provider of student
accommodation. That in turn is fueling acquisitions in an
industry where yields are higher than other parts of the British
 property market . Dutch pension fund manager PGGM NV yesterday
bought 60 percent of the U.K.’s second-largest student-housing
operator in a deal valued at 840 million pounds ($1.4 billion).  “There’s a real focus by big financial institutions on
alternative real estate assets that are less cyclical and more
defensive,” said Philip Hillman, the London-based head of U.K.
student housing at property broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.   Spending Spree  College dormitory rents are rising faster than inflation,
encouraging firms including  Mansion Student Accommodation Fund 
and operators backed by buyout firms  Oaktree Capital Management
LP  and  Carlyle Group LP  to invest about 800 million pounds on
student homes in the first half, Jones Lang estimates. That was
more than double the figure from a year earlier.  PGGM bought the stake in UPP Group Holdings Ltd., a company
that manages about 27,000 beds for 13 colleges, from
infrastructure funds managed by  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  The deal, the
biggest of its kind in  Europe , will ensure that 2011’s record
spending spree of 1.18 billion pounds will be beaten this year.  Unite runs housing for 40,000 students in 24 locations. In
the last academic year, 99 percent of the company’s properties
were occupied, up from 97 percent a year earlier, according to
its  first-half results . Reservations for this year amounted to
87 percent at the end of June, enabling Unite to generate rental
growth of 3 percent to 4 percent.  Unite Venture  Unite announced a plan today to develop  London  buildings
containing as many as 4,000 beds with  Government of Singapore
Investment Corp.’s  real estate unit. Unite and the sovereign
wealth fund will invest a total of 330 million pounds in the
venture.  The U.K. company rose to the  highest since April 2010  in
London trading, bringing this year’s gain to about 53 percent
and lifting Unite’s market value to 411 million pounds.  Western European dormitory sales almost tripled to 1.97
billion euros ($2.5 billion) in the 12 months to June 30,
according to Real Capital Analytics Inc. That exceeded the 1.44
billion euros of deals in the U.S., the world’s largest market.  Student housing offers a “new and interesting
opportunity” for investment, said Dimf Ghijsels, head of
research at  Bouwfonds Real Estate Investment Management.  The
 money manager  may start a 300 million-euro student residence
fund in addition to its European Residential Fund’s dormitories.  Paul McCartney  Larch House , Redhead’s new Liverpool home, is a 10-minute
walk from the  Institute for Performing Arts , which was co-
founded by former Beatle  Paul McCartney  in 1996. Redhead will
share a lounge, kitchenette and bathrooms with three others.  “I wanted somewhere where I would feel relaxed and safe,
where I wouldn’t miss home as much and could mingle with other
students,” Redhead, whose British parents live abroad, said by
telephone from his grandmother’s home in York, northern  England ,
about a two-hour drive from Liverpool.  A 1962 law entitled all full-time students to a free
education and a local authority grant for accommodation and
other expenses. That changed two decades ago, when the
government introduced fees to help pay for an expansion in
higher education.  The proportion of school-leavers seeking a university place
rose to about a third in the 1990s from 6 percent in the 1950s,
according to the 2010 Browne report commissioned by the
government. Since 2006, the annual intake by U.K. universities
climbed by about 100,000 students.  Overseas Students  Since 1999, the number of overseas students has almost
doubled to a total of 428,225, according to the  Higher Education
Statistics Agency . That’s the highest in the world after the
U.S. Foreign students typically pay far more to be educated than
local undergraduates.  “We were concerned about setting up a home because we
don’t know how it works in the U.K.,” said Yuhan Wang, 26, who
is due to arrive with his student wife later this month from
Nanjing,  China , to start a masters in accounting and finance at
Aberdeen University. They will pay Unite 7,600 pounds a year for
a studio in the Scottish city.  In 1997, British students began paying 1,000 pounds a year
in tuition fees. That rose to 3,000 pounds in 2006 and, starting
this month, universities are allowed to charge as much as 9,000
pounds per academic year.  Rental income from a typical student residence in the U.K.
yielded about 6.3 percent last year,  Savills Plc  estimates. That
compared with 4.3 percent for other types of homes and 5.8
percent for commercial real estate, according to the London-
based property broker.  Blackstone’s Coup  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  more than doubled its money in June by
selling three central London student residences for about 415
million pounds. Blackstone developed 2,500-room residences,
cafes, fitness centers and laundries at the Nido-branded sites
before they were bought by Round Hill Capital and Coral Student
Portfolio Fund.  A studio in the  Nido tower in London’s Spitalfields  costs
as much as 370 pounds a week to lease. In Portsmouth, a city on
the south coast of England, students can rent a room in a hall
of residence for as little as 59 pounds.  “London is the most compelling market, although there are
good opportunities in under-supplied towns outside the
capital,” said Jo Winchester, head of  CBRE Group Inc. ’s student
housing unit. “There’s no shortage of investors wanting to put
money into student housing, but too little stock to buy.”  University Cuts  Private operators provided about 10 percent of the rooms
rented by the U.K.’s 1.67 million full-time students during the
last academic year, data from the Higher Education Statistics
Agency show. University campuses and individual landlords
provided accommodation for the rest of those students not living
at home.  The proportion of students living in purpose-building
properties may increase as colleges are forced to save money.
Some planning authorities are restricting the amount of private
homes that are leased to people in higher education to avoid
“studentification” of some areas,  Jones Lang ’s Hillman said.  BridgePoint Ventures LLC , a property investment firm, is
forecasting annual returns of about 20 percent from its
development partnerships. The company invested 2.6 million
pounds in a venture with Seaforth Properties to build a 116-bed
residence near Glasgow University costing 9 million pounds.  Quality Focus  “We’re focusing on the better-quality universities, which
will be less affected by the budget cuts and the impact of
higher tuition fees,” BridgePoint Chief Executive Officer Eric
Jafari said in an interview.  While student representatives said private operators helped
raise the quality of housing and thrown a lifeline to cash-
strapped universities, concerns remain about the provision of
affordable accommodation as students face mounting debts.  For Redhead, the gamble is whether the investment will be
as lucrative in the future as it is for his landlord now.  “It’s important and the judging panel in my audition
convinced me that coming to study in Liverpool would make it
work” as a stepping stone to future employment, he said. “I
was pretty intent on going to university.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 