-- ECB’s Nowotny Calls for Ban of High-Frequency Trading
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-09-13T12:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/ecb-s-nowotny-calls-for-ban-of-high-frequency-trading.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said high-frequency trading is an
example of financial innovation that cannot be properly
regulated and should be prohibited.  “There are cases in which regulation achieves more with
simple bans than with sophisticated regulations,” Nowotny told
a conference on financial regulation in Vienna today. “One
concrete example is high-frequency trading. This can’t be
regulated, this should be banned.”  High-frequency trading uses powerful technology and complex
computer programs to execute orders in milliseconds and profit
from fleeting discrepancies in security prices across different
trading venues. It came under regulatory scrutiny after the so-
called flash crash in May 2010, during which the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  briefly lost almost 1,000 points.  While companies active in such trading say interfering with
their strategies would raise investor costs and harm financial
stability, Nowotny said it has “no measurable economic
benefits.” Regulations designed to keep it within limits would
only create incentives to circumvent them, he said.  The European Commission and European Union lawmakers have
drafted rules to regulate high-frequency trading, which accounts
for more than half of equity trading in the U.S., as part of a
broader effort to toughen a draft financial-markets law.  Nowotny said financial regulation is approaching the limit
of what it can achieve because overly complex rules make it
unwieldy and create incentives to undermine it.  “We’re getting to the limits of regulatory capacities that
we have, in terms of what we can execute, in terms of the costs,
in terms of the staff,” he said. “As long as I give the
option, it’s obvious that every bank executive will strive to
find the hole in the regulation, and then the hole has to be
closed with new regulation again. I believe sharp but simple
regulations sometimes have a better effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  