-- ECB’s Demetriades Says OMT Program Is Decisive Step Forward
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-09-13T07:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/ecb-s-demetriades-says-omt-program-is-decisive-step-forward.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Panicos Demetriades comments on the sovereign
debt crisis, the ECB’s new bond-buying program and the euro-area
economy.  Demetriades, who heads the Central Bank of Cyprus, spoke in
an interview in Nicosia yesterday.  On the unlimited nature of the ECB’s Outright Monetary
Transactions:  “A central bank has this wonderful ability that no other
player in the market has when it says ’I’m going to do whatever
it takes,’ and everyone believes that. In the end they may do
nothing. It restores confidence. It’s the idea of multiple
equilibria, and when we know that we are in the good
equilibrium, in the end action is not needed.  “Once people know that we stand ready to do it, no one
will speculate against the unlimited firepower of a central
bank. This is what stabilizes currencies of countries where
investors know that they have that power. One wouldn’t gamble
against the  Federal Reserve .”  On the sterilization debate:  “There is the decision that these transactions will be
sterilized. I think that discussion is overrated. I don’t think
that in the current circumstances there are any risks to
inflation, and in the current circumstances even if the ECB were
not able to sterilize I don’t think it would make any
significant difference.”  On the debt crisis:  “The OMT program that was announced last week is a major
step, a very decisive step forward towards addressing the
problems that arose in the last year or two. I think that the
program itself is focused at removing the market distortions
that essentially threatened the very viability of the currency.
It will certainly help to reduce and remove those risks that are
associated with events that the ECB considers unacceptable.”  On growth in the euro area:  “The way forward in terms of growth is first of all to
restore confidence in the  euro zone , and in itself the OMT
program is going to do a lot to achieve that. So the ECB
certainly is doing whatever it can to safeguard the euro. And
that in itself is going to lay the foundations of growth.  “Now when it comes to the fiscal policy mix, I think there
has been so far too much emphasis on austerity and not enough on
growth policies. Although fiscal consolidation is necessary, it
is not necessarily the best way forward to have deep cuts in
public expenditure when economies are struggling for growth. I
think the pace of this consolidation, the pace of austerity, the
pace of these cuts, should really be such that it doesn’t create
additional recession, so that it doesn’t plunge economies into
deep recession. We have seen plenty of examples that, when
economies are in deep recession fiscal consolidation programs go
off track. It is important to have the right fiscal policy mix.
We need to ring fence, for example, investment expenditures, R&D
expenditures that actually underpin long-term growth. That is
particularly important and that isn’t emphasized enough.”  On the interest-rate outlook:  “As you know, at the ECB we never pre-commit. Of course,
there are downside risks now, and when it comes to next month’s
decision we take on board all the developments and decide
accordingly.  “I don’t think we are technically ready for negative
deposit rates, but I don’t see that, in theory at least, as an
obstacle.”  On the ECB’s new supervisory powers:  “I am comfortable with it. In fact, we are not just
comfortable, but we have actually contributed to the debate and
we welcome it. The banking union concept itself is good. What we
need to do in the euro area is decouple sovereign risk from bank
risk. For countries like Cyprus with large banking systems, it
is particularly important.  “A central bank has to have powers. That’s critical for
monetary union. I don’t see that as a danger. We want more
European integration and that’s the way forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Nicosia at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  