-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for September (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 2012-09-13T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-september-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s September monthly bulletin:  ﻿Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 6 September to keep
the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Owing to high energy
prices and increases in indirect taxes in some euro area
countries, inflation rates are expected to remain above 2%
throughout2012, to fall below that level again in the course of
next year and to remain in line with  price stability  over the
policy-relevant horizon. Consistent with this picture, the
underlying pace of monetary expansion remains subdued. Inflation
expectations for the euro area economy continue to be firmly
anchored in line with the Governing Council’s aim of maintaining
inflation rates below, but close to, 2%over the medium term.
Economic growth in the euro area is expected to remain weak,
with the ongoing tensions in financial markets and heightened
uncertainty weighing on confidence and sentiment. A renewed
intensification of financial market tensions would have the
potential to affect the balance of risks for both growth and
inflation.  Against this background, the Governing Council decided at its
meeting on the modalities for undertaking Outright Monetary
Transactions (OMTs) in secondary markets for sovereign bonds in
the euro area. As stated in August, the ECB needs to be in the
position to safeguard the monetary policy transmission mechanism
in all countries of the euro area. It aims to preserve the
singleness of the ECB’s monetary policy and to ensure the proper
transmission of its monetary policy stance to the real economy
throughout the area. OMTs will enable the ECB to address severe
distortions in government bond markets which originate from, in
particular, unfounded fears on the part of investors of the
reversibility of the euro. Hence, under appropriate conditions,
the ECB will have a fully effective backstop to avoid
destructive scenarios with potentially severe challenges for
price stability in the euro area. The Governing Council acts
strictly within its mandate to maintain price stability over the
medium term; it acts independently in determining monetary
policy; and the euro is irreversible.  ﻿In order to restore confidence, policy-makers in the euro area
need to push ahead with great determination with fiscal
consolidation, structural reforms to enhance competitiveness and
European institution-building. At the same time, governments
must stand ready to activate the EFSF/ESM in the  bond market 
when exceptional financial market circumstances and risks to
financial stability exist - with strict and effective
conditionality in line with the established guidelines. The
adherence of governments to their commitments and the fulfilment
by the EFSF/ESM of their role are necessary conditions for the
outright transactions to be conducted and to be effective.
Furthermore, the Governing Council took decisions with a view to
ensuring the availability of adequate collateral in Eurosystem
refinancing operations. As regards the economic analysis,
recently published statistics indicate that euro area real GDP
contracted by 0.2%, quarter on quarter, in the second quarter of
2012, following zero growth in the previous quarter. Economic
indicators point to continued weak economic activity in the
remainder of 2012, in an environment of heightened uncertainty.
Looking beyond the short term, the Governing Council expects the
euro area economy to recover only very gradually. The growth
momentum is expected to remain dampened by the necessary process
of balance sheet adjustment in the financial and non-financial
sectors, the existence of high unemployment and an uneven global
recovery.  The September 2012 ECB staff macroeconomic projections for the
euro area foresee annual real GDP growth in a range between -
0.6% and -0.2% for 2012 and between -0.4% and 1.4% for 2013.
Compared with the June 2012 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic
projections, the ranges for 2012 and 2013 have been revised
downwards.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area are
assessed to be on the downside. They relate, in particular, to
the tensions in several euro area financial markets and their
potential spillover to the euro area real economy. These risks
should be contained by effective action by all euro area policy-
makers.  ﻿Euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.6% in August 2012,
according to Eurostat’s flash estimate, compared with 2.4% in
the previous month. This increase is mainly due to renewed
increases in euro-denominated energy prices. On the basis of
current futures prices for oil, inflation rates could turn out
somewhat higher than expected a few months ago, but they should
decline to below 2% again in the course of next year. Over the
policy-relevant horizon, in an environment of modest growth in
the euro area and well-anchored long-term inflation expectations,
underlying price pressures should remain moderate.  The September 2012 ECB staff macroeconomic projections for the
euro area foresee annual HICP inflation in a range between 2.4%
and 2.6% for 2012 and between 1.3% and 2.5% for 2013. These
projection ranges are somewhat higher than those contained in
the June 2012 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections.  Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to be
broadly balanced over the medium term. Upside risks pertain to
further increases in indirect taxes owing to the need for fiscal
consolidation. The main downside risks relate to the impact of
weaker than expected growth in the euro area, particularly
resulting from a further intensification of financial market
tensions, and its effects on the domestic components of
inflation. If not contained by effective action by all euro area
policy-makers, such intensification has the potential to affect
the balance of risks on the downside.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion remained subdued. The annual growth rate of
M3 increased to 3.8% in July 2012,up from 3.2% in June. The rise
in M3 growth was mainly attributable to a higher preference for
liquidity, as reflected in the further increase in the annual
growth rate of the narrow monetary aggregate M1 to 4.5% in July,
from 3.5% in June. The annual growth rate of loans to the
private sector (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation)
remained weak at 0.5% in July (after 0.3% in June). Annual
growth in MFI loans to both non-financial corporations and
households remained subdued, at -0.2% and 1.1% respectively
(both adjusted for loan sales and securitisation). To ﻿a large
extent, subdued loan growth reflects a weak outlook for GDP,
heightened  risk aversion  and the ongoing adjustment in the
balance sheets of households and enterprises, all of which weigh
on credit demand. Furthermore, in a number of euro area
countries, the segmentation of financial markets and capital
constraints for banks continue to weigh on credit supply.  Looking ahead, it is essential for banks to continue to
strengthen their resilience where this is needed. The soundness
of banks’ balance sheets will be a key factor in facilitating
both an appropriate provision of credit to the economy and the
normalisation of all funding channels.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  Although good progress is being made, the need for structural
and fiscal adjustment remains significant in many European
countries. On the structural side, further swift and decisive
product and labour market reforms are required across the euro
area to improve competitiveness, increase adjustment capacities
and achieve higher sustainable growth rates. These structural
reforms will also complement and support fiscal consolidation
and debt sustainability. On the fiscal front, it is crucial that
governments undertake all measures necessary to achieve their
targets for the current and coming years. In this respect, the
expected rapid implementation of the fiscal compact should be a
main element to help strengthen confidence in the soundness of
public finances. Finally, pushing ahead with European
institution-building with great determination is essential.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  