-- Legoland Malaysia Lays Bricks to Emulate Orlando: Southeast Asia
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-09-13T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/legoland-malaysia-lays-bricks-to-emulate-orlando-southeast-asia.html
Merlin Entertainments Group Ltd.,
which owns tourist-related brands including Madame Tussauds, is
opening its first Legoland theme park in Asia tomorrow as it
develops an Orlando-styled cluster of attractions.  The 76-acre theme park in southern Malaysia, a 45-minute
car ride from downtown Singapore, will seek to attract some of 
the 13.2 million  tourists  that visited the neighboring city 
last year with its more than 40 rides and attractions. It’s 
targeting as many as 2 million visitors a year from markets 
that also include India, Indonesia,  Philippines ,  Thailand , 
China and  Hong Kong , it said.  “This region will become Southeast Asia’s response to
Orlando in America offering a great experience of many themed
attractions,” said John Jakobsen, Dorset, U.K.-based managing
director of Legoland Parks, a unit of Merlin.  The company is emulating the Florida metropolitan area
that’s home to theme parks run by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Studios , SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment and
Legoland, and drew a record 51.4 million tourists in 2010,
according to the Orlando Tourism Bureau. Both SeaWorld and
Merlin are backed by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s biggest
private-equity firm.  Legoland is the newest addition to the so-called Iskandar
project to create an investment, amusement and education hub in
southern Malaysia across the waterway from Singapore. The
government has been wooing foreign money with easier investment
rules and tax breaks.  Rivaling Singapore  The country introduced the  Iskandar Development Region  in
the South Johor Economic Region as part of a five-year, 200
billion-ringgit ($65 billion) spending plan to redevelop the
south, north and eastern regions Malaysia.  “The strategy of developing the Iskander region has been
to complement Singapore not compete with it,” said  Gundy
Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in
Singapore. “It’s too early to tell the impact of Legoland on
the Johor and Malaysian economy as a whole but at least they now
are showing some physical proof having built it.”  Themed Attractions and Resorts Sdn., which owns the
Malaysian Legoland, is also building the Puteri Harbour Family
Theme Park that includes attractions such as  Sanrio Co. (8136) ’s Hello
Kitty Town and the Little Big Club, according to state news
service Bernama. It manages KidZania, Ocean Quest and Water
World in Malaysia, Bernama said. Themed Attractions is a unit of
Khazanah Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s state-owned investor.  ‘Resident Market’  The new Legoland park, which is run by the Merlin unit,
will include 15,000 Lego models built with about 50 million Lego
bricks, the company said.  Merlin  will also add a water park to
Legoland that will open next year, as well as a Legoland-themed
hotel that will be completed by 2014, the company said.  Singapore, which  Legoland  Malaysia’s General Manager
Siegfried Boerst said is its “resident market,” is expected to
draw 13.5 million to 14.5 million this year, based on the
government’s estimates. The entire Legoland development, more
than three hours away by car from Malaysia’s capital city of
 Kuala Lumpur , will cost 1 billion ringgit, he said.  The company plans to add some of its other brands including
 Madame Tussauds , Sealife and the Dungeons, and Singapore is an
“obvious location,” Jakobsen said in an interview yesterday at
the Malaysian theme park, adding it’s in talks with the island
state’s government on more attractions.  Universal Studios  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS)  opened
their gaming resorts in the city state two years ago, adding a
downtown convention center and Southeast Asia’s only Universal
Studios theme park.  “There is no doubt that the proximity and the synergy that
would be between having a Legoland park in Malaysia, Iskandar
and then some other attractions in Singapore would provide a
fantastic synergy and would help develop this region further,”
Jakobsen said.  Merlin, which has 87 attractions in 19 countries, is
expanding in Asia by opening new outlets and by acquisitions,
Jakobsen said. Merlin has 22 theme parks and attractions in the
region, with the Malaysian Legoland adding to the list.  “Our vision is to be the Orlando of Southeast  Asia ,”
Jakobsen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  