-- Egypt T-Bill Yield Plunges to 10-Month Low as BofA Expects Rally
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-09-13T17:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/egypt-t-bill-yield-plunges-to-10-month-low-as-bofa-expects-rally.html
Egypt’s local-currency borrowing
costs fell to a 10-month low after Bank of America Merill Lynch
predicted the debt will catch up with a rally in other Egyptian
assets once the nation secures  International Monetary Fund  aid.  The average yield on one-year treasury bills dropped 74
basis points, or 0.74 percentage point, to 15.01 percent, the
lowest since November, at today’s auction of 3.5 billion pounds
($574 million) of the notes, according to central bank data on
Bloomberg. The North African nation also issued 2 billion pounds
of six-month notes at 14.25 percent, down 85 basis points.  Bill yields may plunge 300 basis points in the year after
the government reaches an agreement for an IMF loan of as much
as $4.8 billion, BofA Merrill Lynch said in a report today. The
talks are set to resume later this month. Local-currency debt
yields have stayed near record highs even as  Egypt ’s credit risk
dropped and dollar-denominated bonds rallied this quarter after
the country swore in its first democratically elected president.  “We see room for T-bill yields to compress materially” in
the year following the agreement, London-based BofA economist
Jean-Michel Saliba wrote. “T-bill yields have remained so far
sticky near their highs, lagging the impressive rally in
equities and CDS.”  Five-year CDS, or credit default swaps, have plunged 220
basis points to 405 yesterday since July 1, according to data
provider CMA, as President Mohamed Mursi took office and the
country secured pledges from Qatar to deposit $2 billion with
its central bank. Qatar has also made investment pledges valued
at $18 billion. Egypt’s EGX 30 index has rallied 56 percent in
2012, making it the world’s best-performing gauge among 92
tracked by Bloomberg.  Police Clashes  The drop in yields came even as protesters clashed with
police around the U.S. Embassy in central Cairo in a rally
against a film seen as insulting Islam.  While the unrest caused the benchmark EGX 30 stock index to
drop 1.1 percent today, it’s unlikely to derail this year’s
rally as investors remain optimistic about the prospects of
external financing, Wafik Dawood, the director of institutional
sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities said by phone.  The one-year bill yield rose to as high as 15.975 percent in
February after foreign investors fled Egyptian assets following
last year’s revolt. The IMF agreement, which Prime Minister
Hisham Qandil said may be concluded by the end of November, will
help lure investors, easing a local-currency funding squeeze at
domestic banks, Saliba wrote.  Raising Funds  The government will seek to raise 1 billion pounds at its
first offering of two-year floating-rate notes next week,
looking to diversify borrowing tools and lengthen debt maturity.
The planned sale may suggest “increased comfort among
authorities that enough external support will be provided to
relieve pressure on  interest rates ,” Saliba wrote.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due April
2020 rose three basis points to 5.21 percent at 4:15 p.m. in
Cairo, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield has
tumbled 279 basis points this year. The Egyptian pound, subject
to managed float, was little changed at 6.0925 a dollar.  CMA is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. CDS contracts pay
the buyer face value if the borrower fails to meet its
obligations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  