-- Equinix Jumps After Board Approves Conversion to REIT
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-09-13T20:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/equinix-jumps-after-board-approves-conversion-to-reit.html
Equinix Inc. (EQIX) , operator of data
centers for companies such as AT&T Inc. and Amazon.com Inc.,
 surged  after approving a plan to convert into a real estate
investment trust, a move aimed at reducing its tax obligations.  Shares rose 7.5 percent to $200.50 at the close in New
York. The stock has  increased  98 percent this year amid
predictions that a REIT conversion is in the offing.  Demand for Equinix’s services is growing as more businesses
and consumers rely on it to manage Web traffic, mobile apps and
online video. Other technology companies that make money from
owning and operating facilities and have opted for REIT status
include storage provider  Iron Mountain Inc. (IRM)  and  American Tower
Corp. (AMT) , which leases wireless communications tower space.  “The announcement today was sooner than we and most
investors likely expected,”  Gray Powell , an analyst at Wells
Fargo & Co. who has a buy rating on Equinix, wrote in a note to
investors. “We believe the stock will trade higher.”  The company plans to issue a special distribution of $700
million to $1.1 billion as part of the conversion,  Redwood City ,
California-based Equinix said in a statement today. It expects
to have REIT status beginning in 2015.  “We have already seen several of our peers in the data
center industry operate under a REIT structure, and we believe
that this tax-efficient structure will enhance shareholder value
and enable us to be even more competitive,” Equinix Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Smith said in the statement.  U.S. REITs are required to distribute at least 90 percent
of their income as dividends. The trusts typically are subject
to lower taxes and pay higher dividends than other companies, so
the conversion would help Smith return more money to
shareholders, he said in an interview earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in  New York  at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  