-- Ethiopian Government Forms Company to Develop Oil, Gas Resources
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-09-13T11:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/ethiopian-government-forms-company-to-develop-oil-gas-resources.html
Ethiopia’s government will form the
Petroleum Development Enterprise that will develop oil and gas
resources in partnership with private companies, Mines Minister
Sinknesh Ejigu said.  The state-owned company will “bolster and enhance
development,” Sinknesh said today in a phone interview from the
capital,  Addis Ababa . A similar public enterprise will be set up
to extract  mineral resources  including precious metals, tantalum
and potash, she said.  Ethiopia’s government in July canceled five production-
sharing agreements with  PetroTrans Co.  because of a lack of
progress by the Hong Kong-based company. Sinknesh said last
month the government may develop gas fields in the country’s
eastern Somali region after cancelling its contract with
PetroTrans, which it had expected to bring financing of as much
as $5 billion. The company rejected the termination of its
contract.  The production-sharing accords were for 10 blocks in the
Ogaden area of the Somali region, which include the Calub and
Hilala fields with natural gas resources estimated at 4 trillion
cubic feet. SouthWest Energy, an Addis Ababa-based company, has
said it hopes to strike oil in the Ogaden next year.  Landlocked Ethiopia,  Africa ’s second-most populous nation,
produces no oil or gas and was reliant on gold, coffee and other
agricultural commodities for export earnings of $3.2 billion
last year, according to Access Capital, an Addis Ababa-based
research company.  The “whole idea” of the enterprise is to work with
industry, Sinknesh said. “The private sector is the engine of
development, provided they are developmental.”  The establishment of the state-owned company has been
delayed by the death of Prime Minister Meles Zenawi last month,
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 