-- European Stocks Fall From 14 Month-High; EADS, BAE Slide
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-09-13T16:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/european-stock-futures-little-changed-before-fed-meeting.html
European stocks fell from the
highest level in 14 months as investors awaited a Federal
Reserve decision on further stimulus measures.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  and  BAE (BA/)  Systems
Plc slid more than 7 percent as Barclays Plc recommended
investors trim their holdings in the companies in the short
term, as they plan a merger. Zodiac Aerospace rose 2.1 percent
after  Societe Generale  SA upgraded its rating on the stock.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.2 percent to 272.42 at
the close of trading, paring losses of as much as 0.6 percent.
The gauge rose to its highest level since July 2011 yesterday
after Germany’s top constitutional court cleared the way for
ratification of the euro area’s permanent bailout fund.  “The rise in the market over the last few weeks has priced
in the expectation of more central bank action, which may prove
to be premature,” said Jeremy Batstone-Carr, head of research
at Charles Stanley Group Plc in  London . “A little bit of
investor weariness is creeping in ahead of the Fed’s meeting.”  The Fed may today announce another round of bond purchases,
according to almost two-thirds of economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The previous two series of quantitative easing totaling
$2.3 trillion have failed to revive the labor market, which Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month is a “grave concern.”  EADS, BAE  EADS slid 10 percent to 25.15 euros. The company said
yesterday it has entered talks for a merger with BAE to build an
equal to  Boeing Co. (BA)  that would balance civil and defense
operations. Deutsche Bank AG downgraded the stock to hold from
buy.  BAE lost 7.3 percent to 337.1 pence. Europe’s biggest arms
maker was cut to hold from buy at Oriel Securities Ltd.  Barclays advised investors to trim their exposure to EADS
and take profits in BAE because of the potential for near-term
challenges in the deal closure process. Barclays kept its
overweight recommendation, similar to a buy, on both companies,
reflecting long-term prospects.  National benchmark indexes fell in 11 of the 18 western-
 European (SXXP)  markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 advanced 0.7 percent,
while Germany’s DAX lost 0.5 percent. France’s CAC 40 slid 1.2
percent.  The volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx 600 was
8.2 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Next, Imagination  Next Plc (NXT)  slumped 7.2 percent to 3,320 pence after the
U.K.’s second-largest clothing retailer said sales in August and
early September were “disappointing,” paring growth for the
year to date.  Imagination Technologies Group Plc. (IMG)  tumbled 7.2 percent to
566 pence after saying first-quarter royalty revenue growth was
in line with expectations, while royalty rates decreased
slightly because of higher volumes in low-end smartphones.  Numis Securities downgraded its recommendation on the U.K.
chip designer for mobile applications to hold from buy, with a
price forecast of 590 pence per share.  Debenhams Plc (DEB) , the U.K. department-store operator, slid 1.8
percent to 98.25 pence.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) , an operator of
home and general-merchandise retail stores, retreated 4.6
percent to 94.85 pence. A gauge of retailers was among the worst
performers of the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Vinci, Vestas  Vinci SA (DG) , Europe’s biggest builder, fell 3.6 percent to
35.46 euros after Bank of America Corp. cut its recommendation
on the shares to neutral from buy. A gauge of construction
companies made the biggest contribution to the Stoxx 600’s
decline today.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s largest wind turbine
maker, plunged 13 percent to 34.55 kroner. The company is
considering selling shares to existing investors if talks on a
strategic cooperation with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.
fail, two people familiar with the matter said.  Zodiac Aerospace (ZC) , which manufactures and sells aeronautical
equipment including weapons systems, added 2.1 percent to 79.60
euros after Societe Generale upgraded its recommendation on the
shares to hold from sell.  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s biggest advertising agency, rose 1.3
percent to 848 pence after the shares were raised to hold from
underperform at Jefferies Group Inc.  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  gained 4.9 percent to 49.32 Swiss francs.
The Swiss specialty-chemical maker sold 305 million francs ($324
million) of bonds to refinance a bridge loan used for its
acquisition of Arch Chemicals Inc. in October 2011.  The refinancing measures remove much of Lonza’s near-term
financing overhang, and may boost pre-tax earnings by 3 percent,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  advanced 2.9 percent to 33.49
francs. Chief Executive Officer  Boris Collardi  said he was
“confident on the cost-cutting side” at the Asian wealth-
management business it bought from Bank of America Corp.,
according to a Financial Times report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  