-- Euro Chaos Tops Politics as Baltic Exporters Revive Russia Ties
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-09-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/euro-chaos-tops-politics-as-baltic-exporters-revive-russia-ties.html
Estonia ’s biggest liquor producer
has no time for political squabbles as sales to  Russia  help it
plot a safe passage through the euro-area debt turmoil.  “It would be very shortsighted if we turned our backs on
Russia,”  Liviko AS ’s Chief Executive Officer Janek Kalvi said
in a phone interview from the capital, Tallinn. “Especially if
you look at what’s been happening in  Europe .”  Liviko, whose revenue reached 130 million euros ($168
million) in 2011, has bolstered sales to Russia for each of the
last five years, even after Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip 
encouraged curbs on exports to the Baltic nation’s neighbor.
Growth in 2012 has been about 10 percent, according to Kalvi.  Baltic exports to Russia, now Estonia’s top destination for
goods, have jumped to the highest in more than a decade, fueling
Europe’s fastest growth after the region that also includes
Latvia and  Lithuania  endured the world’s worst recessions after
 Lehman Brothers Inc .’s 2008 collapse. The surge has defied
strained ties over issues from Soviet occupation to energy
imports and has helped drive Baltic debt yields to record lows.  “Export demand in western Europe is going to be pretty
weak for a while,”  Neil Shearing , chief emerging-market
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said Sept. 12 by
phone. “If that’s the case, you’re going to take export growth
were you can get it for the next couple of years. That’s where
political objectives may meet cold hard economic realities.”  Record Yields  Latvian gross domestic product surged 5 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter, the EU’s fastest pace, while
Lithuania grew 2.2 percent and Estonia expanded 2.2 percent, the
fifth-quickest rate.  The yield on Lithuania’s  dollar bond  due 2022 dropped to a
record 3.770 percent Sept. 12, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on Latvia’s 2021 dollar bond fell to 3.339
percent, the lowest since trading began last June.  Baltic-Russia ties have foundered since the  Soviet Union 
broke up more than 20 years ago.  Lithuanian politicians including Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius are pursuing compensation from Russia for Soviet
occupation and damages after 280,000 of its citizens were
deported to labor camps from Siberia to  Kazakhstan  between 1940
and 1953. Russia rejects that the Baltic nations were occupied.  Estonia, where ethnic Russians rioted in 2007 over the
relocation of a Soviet war memorial, jailed a high-ranking ex-
police official in June for spying for Russia. Before elections
last March, authorities said the main opposition Center Party
posed a security risk to the country by seeking financing from a
potential Russian backer.  Energy Fears  Party leader Edgar Savisaar, the mayor of the capital,
Tallinn, said at the time that the party had sought 1.5 million
euros from OAO Russian Railways Chief Executive Officer  Vladimir Yakunin  to build a church in Tallinn.  Estonian President Toomas Ilves used his Twitter Inc.
account to liken the jailing of Russian punk activists Pussy
Riot, who blame President  Vladimir Putin  for their plight, to a
13th century “witch trial.”  The three Baltic nations plan to build a nuclear-power
plant in Visaginas, Lithuania, an electricity link with  Sweden 
and liquefied natural-gas terminals to trim energy reliance on
Russia, which they deem an unreliable partner.  After losing out to  Poland  in the 2006 auction of the
Baltic region’s only oil refinery, Orlen Lietuva AB, Russia
halted deliveries through a crude pipeline to the company,
citing a leak. Russia’s state-run OAO Transneft has refused to
fix the pipe since.  ‘Highest Prices’  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly, faces an
EU antitrust probe over the pricing of fuel sales in central and
eastern Europe after complaints from nations such as Lithuania.  Lithuanian Energy Minister Arvydas Sekmokas said his
country was “punished with the highest prices in Europe” when
it tried to implement EU energy policy to open up markets,
according to a comment e-mailed Sept. 5.  “Domination or even open hostility often prevails in
Russian policies both in bilateral and multilateral relations,”
Lithuanian Foreign Minister Audronius Azubalis wrote in a March
15 opinion piece for the Delfi news service. “That’s
unacceptable for us.”  Still, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, which joined the
European Union in 2004 to bolster Western trade, have increased
the share of goods they send to Russia by as much as half since
2009. Russia now accounts for as much as 19 percent of exports,
the most in at least 14 years, while the shares of nations such
as France and  Belgium  have shrunk as they grapple with Europe’s
debt crisis.  ‘More Clarity’  “We’d certainly want more clarity and less tension on the
political level but that hasn’t been too big of an obstacle for
business,” Audrius Statulevicius, chief financial officer of
dairy-products maker  Pieno Zvaigzdes AB (PZV1L) , said by phone from
Vilnius, Lithuania’s capital. “We don’t make a drama out of the
politics.”  Russian sales at Pieno Zvaigzdes, which sells Svalia brand
cheese at supermarkets from  St. Petersburg  to Kamchatka, grew 20
percent in 2011, according to Statulevicius.  Russia’s  economy  will expand 3.5 percent this year, driven
retail sales and investment, the  Economy Ministry  said Aug. 28.
Gross domestic product advanced 4 percent from a year earlier
between April and June as the euro area recorded its second
quarterly contraction in nine months.  Biggest Partner  Russian sales helped Lithuanian exports reach a record-high
6.5 billion litai ($2.4 billion) in July and is now the
country’s biggest trading partner. Russia was Estonia’s biggest
export partner for the first time in almost 20 years that month
as re-exports of equipment including front-loading excavators
fueled a 35 percent advance in sales.  While the export relationship has flourished, there are
reasons for concern over the prospects for Russia’s economy,
which crashed after a ruble devaluation and debt default in
1998, causing sales from Estonia to plunge 43 percent the
following year and pushing all three Baltic nations into
recession.  Russia faces “considerable” risks of spillover from
global economic difficulties as there’s less room for fiscal
response than in 2008 and the country’s budget is still
“heavily dependent” on oil revenue, the  International Monetary
Fund  said last month.  Russia’s economy, forecast by the IMF to grow 4 percent in
2012 and 2013, contracted 7.8 percent in 2009 after the credit
squeeze and global slowdown that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  For the time being, demand is firmer in Russia than the
euro area, where GDP  contracted  0.4 percent in the second
quarter.  Egidijus Valentinavicius, Chairman of Lithuania’s  SBA
Furniture Group , is looking to tap growing Russian consumption
as he diversifies away from European sales. SBA, a contractor
for Swedish home-furnishings retailer IKEA, increased sales 18
percent from a year earlier through the first five months.  “Growth in Russia is considerably stronger than in western
Europe,” Valentinavicius said. “Consumption is still lower
than in the West, so growth potential is there for the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net 
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  