-- Ex-HBOS Banker Cummings Fined $805,000 by U.K. Regulator
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-09-13T16:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/ex-hbos-banker-cummings-fined-805-000-by-u-k-regulator.html
The U.K.’s financial regulator
fined Peter Cummings, a former banker at HBOS Plc, 500,000
pounds ($806,000) over the aggressive expansion of corporate
lending.  The Financial Services Authority fined and banned Cummings
for failing to adequately manage the risks his division faced as
financial market conditions deteriorated in 2007 and 2008, the
agency said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “It is essential that senior executives understand that
incentivizing revenue over risk is a dangerous folly,” Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s director of enforcement, said in the
statement.  Cummings, HBOS’s highest-paid banker, ran the corporate-
banking unit before the Edinburgh-based lender was acquired by
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  Cummings’ unit had “lent too much,”
ex-HBOS chairman Dennis Stevenson said at a Parliamentary
committee hearing in 2009. HBOS’s assets more than doubled to
681 billion pounds between 2001 and 2008, as it expanded lending
to entrepreneurs and real estate developers.  About 40 percent of the bank’s 117 billion-pound corporate
loan book was allocated to real estate and commercial property.
Lloyds’s acquisition of HBOS, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender
at the time, led it to seek a 20 billion-pound bailout. The U.K.
government acquired a 43.4 percent stake in Lloyds.  Cummings, 57, rejected the FSA’s claims, calling the
investigation process “Orwellian” and said in an e-mailed
statement that there should be “collective responsibility” for
what happened at HBOS. So far, he’s the only HBOS director to
face action from the FSA over the near-collapse of the lender.  ‘Institutional Oppression’  “The decision to single me out for investigation is even
more grotesque given that even the FSA has to admit in its
notice that other senior people were involved in the critical
decisions for which I am taken to task,” Cummings said. “This
is tokenism at its most sinister, and has made it feel
throughout like institutional oppression.”  Andy Hornby , the chief executive officer who led HBOS
before the bailout, was named CEO of Alliance Boots Holdings
Ltd. in 2009. He’s now head of British bookmaker Gala Coral
Group Ltd.’s Coral unit.  Cummings said he won’t appeal the FSA’s decision, citing
the potential costs. The FSA said it will now begin work on a
detailed report into the causes of the failure of HBOS in 2008,
similar to its earlier report into the collapse of Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in December.  Andrew Tyrie , the Conservative chairman of the U.K.’s
Treasury Committee, said the panel would appoint independent
advisers to oversee the preparation of the report.  “The public deserves to know exactly what happened at
HBOS,’’ Tyrie said in a letter to the FSA. “The Treasury
Committee will ensure that this happens.”  welcome a ‘‘comprehensive’’ report in a letter to FSA Chairman
 Adair Turner  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  