-- Ex-Hewlett-Packard Managers Charged in Germany on Russia Bribery
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-09-13T09:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/ex-hewlett-packard-managers-charged-in-germany-on-russia-bribery.html
Three former  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
managers were charged in  Germany  in a corruption investigation
over improper payments made to win a 35 million-euro ($45
million) sale of computers to  Russia  about nine years ago.  They were charged with bribery, breach of trust and
aiding in  tax evasion , Wolfgang Klein, spokesman for Saxony’s
Chief Prosecutor’s Office, said in a telephone interview today.
A German businessman was also indicted. A former German Hewlett-
Packard subsidiary sold the computers to the Chief Public
Prosecutor’s Office of the Russian Federation.  “About 7.5 million euros of kickbacks were allegedly paid
as part of the deal to people at Russian authorities to win the
contract,” said Klein. “A network of accounts at companies in
several countries was used to hide the money transfer.”  Hewlett-Packard’s Moscow offices were searched in 2010 in
the bribery investigation by Russian prosecutors. The U.S.
 Justice Department  and the Securities and Exchange Commission
have also been examining the issue. The German prosecutors
exchanged information with U.S. authorities in the case, Klein
said.  Prosecutors asked the court to make Hewlett-Packard an
associated party to the case, according to Klein. If the court
grants that request and the allegations are proved, Hewlett-
Packard’s profits from the transaction may be seized, he said.  Hewlett-Packard is fully cooperating with the authorities
and “stresses that the company expects from employees and
partners strict compliance of its business principles,” Anette
Nachbar, a company spokeswoman said in an e-mailed statement.  One of the ex-managers charged is a Finnish woman. The
other two are men, one American and one German, Klein said.  The German probe was started in 2009 after tax authorities
routinely reviewed the books of a small company in the East
German state of Saxony, said Klein. The tax investigators found
that no real use could be established for some payments found in
the accounts. The owner of that company was charged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 