-- Ex-U.S. Army Corps Official Gets 6 Years for Bribe Scheme
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-13T21:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/ex-u-s-army-corps-official-gets-6-years-for-bribe-scheme.html
A former U.S.  Army Corps  of
Engineers contracting official, Michael A. Alexander, was
sentenced to six years in prison for taking bribes and
conspiring to launder money as part of a $30 million kickback
scheme involving government contractors.  Alexander, 56, who pleaded guilty in February to one count
of bribery and one count of money laundering conspiracy was
sentenced today by U.S. District Judge  Emmet Sullivan  in
 Washington . The former U.S. Army Corps program manager is among
11 people who have pleaded guilty to taking part in what
prosecutors call the largest domestic bribery and bid-rigging
scheme.  “Michael Alexander flagrantly abused his government
position to enrich himself, cheating the taxpayer out of money
meant to support our troops,” U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen said
in a statement. “After diverting our tax dollars to buy a South
Korean coffee shop and to pay prostitutes, he then tried to rig
a $1 billion contract.”  Alexander, who lived in Woodbridge,  Virginia , was accused
along with a colleague, Kerry Khan, of funneling more than
$45 million through a contract he was in charge of to a company
that kicked back $20 million generated by overbilling. Also
charged were Khan’s son and Harold Babb, the director of
contracts for Eyak Technology LLC in Dulles, Virginia. All three
have pleaded guilty.  Under federal sentencing guidelines, Alexander faced from
nine years to more than 11 years in prison. He also agreed to
forfeit $1.25 million.  Alexander’s sentence was cut back from the nine years
agreed to earlier “in recognition of his immediate post-arrest
cooperation,” his lawyer,  Christopher Davis , said in an e-mail.
“This case has destroyed his career, reputation and life as he
knew it. It’s a very sad day for a once very proud and
accomplished man.”  The scheme took advantage of a five-year contract with the
Army Corps under the so-called TIGER program, according to an
indictment unsealed on Oct. 4.  Government agencies, including  Homeland Security ,  NASA  and
the Coast Guard, use the TIGER contract to acquire information-
technology services and physical and infrastructure security.  The scheme was made possible by Kerry Khan’s position as a
program director in the Army Corps’s directorate of operations,
which administers the TIGER contract, prosecutors said. He had
authority to place orders through TIGER that don’t require
competitive bidding, according to the indictment.  Prosecutors said those involved in the scheme were planning
to expand the bribery operation under a contract called CORES.  The award potential for contracts placed under CORES was
almost $1 billion, they said.  The case is U.S. v. Khan, 1:11-cr-00276, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 