-- Mexico Arrests Suspected Head of Gulf Cartel Wanted by U.S.
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 2012-09-13T13:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/mexico-arrests-suspected-head-of-gulf-cartel-wanted-by-u-s-1-.html
Mexican authorities captured the
suspected leader of the  Gulf Cartel , one of the nation’s most-
hunted drug traffickers for whose arrest the U.S. had been
offering a $5 million reward.  Jorge Eduardo Costilla Sanchez was detained yesterday in
the northeastern state of Tamaulipas, Navy spokesman Jose Luis
Vergara said today at a press conference in  Mexico  City. Thirty
officers broke into an apartment and surprised Costilla Sanchez,
who put up no resistance, Vergara said.  Costilla Sanchez, also known as “El Coss,’ is accused in
the U.S. of “the coordination of cocaine and marijuana
shipments into the  United States , as well as the receipt of bulk
currency shipments into Mexico from the United States,”
according to a lawsuit filed in the District Court of Columbia
in 2009.  “He was the leader of what had been considered the second
most powerful criminal organization in the country,” Vergara
said. “Cunning, El Coss overcame internal divisions and led
violent confrontations.”  The Gulf Cartel has been among the hardest hit by President
 Felipe Calderon ’s crackdown on drug traffickers. The cartel
created an armed group of former soldiers known as the Zetas to
fight rival gangs. Mexican authorities say the Zetas broke away
from their former bosses and have gained power even as the Gulf
Cartel has been weakened by deaths and arrests.  Reward Money  In addition to the  reward money  put up by the U.S. State
Department, Mexico’s government has offered 30 million pesos
($2.3 million) for information leading to Costilla Sanchez’s
capture.  The arrest follows that of Mario Cardenas, one of the
cartel’s alleged leaders and a brother of former head Osiel
Cardenas, who was captured in 2003 and is now imprisoned in the
U.S. The Navy announced Mario Cardenas’s capture on Sept. 4.  Another brother of Osiel Cardenas, Antonio Ezequiel
Cardenas, known as “Tony the Storm,” was killed in a clash
with Mexican military in 2010.  More than 55,000 people have died in drug-related violence
since Calderon assumed the presidency in December of 2006,
according to a  tally  from Mexico City-based daily Milenio. His
administration has deployed soldiers in regions where criminal
gangs are prevalent, including Mexico’s northern border region
and the Pacific states of Guerrero and Michoacan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 