-- Hezbollah Chief Designated for U.S. Sanctions for Syria
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2012-09-13T17:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/hezbollah-chief-designated-for-u-s-sanctions-for-syria.html
The U.S. imposed financial
sanctions against the head of Hezbollah,  Hassan Nasrallah , for
providing support to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  Two other Hezbollah figures, Mustafa Badr Al-Din and Talal
Hamiyah, also were designated for sanctions for leading the
Lebanon-based group’s “terrorist activities in the  Middle East 
and around the world,” according to a statement today by the
Treasury Department.  The Shiite Muslim group, which draws much of its financial
and military support from  Iran  through  Syria , is a major militia
force and political party in Lebanon. It is considered a
terrorist organization by the U.S. and  Israel .  “By aiding Assad’s violent campaign against the Syrian
people and working to support a regime that will inevitably
fall, Hezbollah’s ongoing activity undermines regional stability
and poses a direct threat to Lebanon’s security,” Under
Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence David S. Cohen said in the statement. “Hezbollah’s actions, overseen by
Hassan Nasrallah and executed by Mustafa Badr Al-Din and Talal
Hamiyah, clearly reveal its true nature as a terrorist and
criminal organization.”  Al-Din is a senior Hezbollah official who is believed to
have replaced his cousin, Imad Mughniyeh, as Hezbollah’s top
militant commander after Mughniyah’s 2008 car-bomb
assassination, according to the Treasury statement. In June
2011, the prosecutor of an international tribunal charged four
Hezbollah members, including Al-Din, in the 2005 attack that
killed former Lebanese Prime Minister  Rafiq Hariri  and 21
others.  Terrorist Plotting  Hamiyah is the head of Hezbollah’s External Security
Organization, which is responsible for planning and execution of
terrorist attacks outside of Lebanon, according to the Treasury.  The past year has witnessed Hezbollah’s most aggressive
terrorist plotting outside the Middle East since the 1990s,
according to the statement.  Additionally, in recent months Hezbollah has played an
“increasingly active role” in providing support to the
Government of Syria, “further enabling the regime to carry out
its bloody campaign against the Syrian people,” the Treasury
said in its statement.  “Under the Assad regime, Syria has been a longstanding
supporter of Hezbollah -- providing safe haven to Hezbollah and
routing weapons, in many cases from Iran, to Hezbollah in
Lebanon,” according to the statement. “Hezbollah, under the
direction of Nasrallah, is now returning the favor by providing
training, advice, and extensive logistical support to the
government of Syria as the Assad regime continues to wreak havoc
on the Syrian people through the use of terror and violence --
Hezbollah’s area of expertise.”   Executive Order  The Treasury action was taken under an August 2011
presidential executive order prohibiting transactions with
Syria. Hezbollah was designated under that  order  in August. It
has been designated by the U.S. as terrorist organization since
1995.  Nasrallah previously was designated for sanctions in
January 1995 by President  Bill Clinton  under an executive order
aimed at “foreign terrorists that disrupt the Middle East peace
process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  