-- Faissola Seeks Deutsche Bank Profit in Money Management
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-09-17T13:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/faissola-seeks-deutsche-bank-profit-in-money-management.html
Michele Faissola, who spent 17
years helping expand Deutsche Bank AG’s investment bank, has a
new project: building a money management unit that can compete
with UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG.  Faissola was put in charge of Deutsche Bank’s newly
combined asset and  wealth management  division in June when Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen took over as co-chief executive
officers of the Frankfurt-based lender. Faissola, 44, will name
his leadership team next week as he sets about cutting 700
million euros ($902 million) of costs to more than double the
unit’s profit by 2015.  Banks are searching for alternate sources of revenue as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and stricter regulation curb
 investment-banking  profits. Faissola must turn a tide of client
redemptions in asset management after a failed sale of some
units earlier this year, while competing with firms such as UBS
of Zurich that are redoubling efforts to lure rich clients.  “This is one of the toughest management challenges and
largest turnarounds that we have,” Jain, 49, said in an
interview. “Michele is very much being entrusted with a
critical mission for us.”  Faissola, who has known Jain since 1995 and reported to him
since 2000, was named head of the new unit after helping expand
 Deutsche Bank (DBK) ’s rates and commodities operations and building
the exchange-traded funds business from its inception, Jain
said. He’s succeeded in each of the challenges, according to the
co-CEO.  Canceled Sale  Faissola’s current task hasn’t been made easier by Deutsche
Bank’s aborted effort to  sell  businesses accounting for about 80
percent of the 544 billion euros of invested funds the asset
management unit had at the end of 2011. The company also oversaw
269 billion euros for wealthy clients.  The bank canceled talks with U.S. money manager Guggenheim
Partners LLC on a sale of its DWS mutual funds in the Americas,
advisory units for institutional investors and insurance firms
and the RREEF real-estate division earlier this year.  The asset management division had about 16 billion euros in
net outflows in the first half as it was unable to pitch for
clients during the sale talks and as customers shied from
investments amid the debt crisis, according to Deutsche Bank.  “The disruption from the sale process risks the loss of
talent and mandates in the coming quarters,” said  Kinner Lakhani , an analyst with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in London who has a
neutral recommendation on the stock. “Even if set straight, the
franchise may take some time to heal.”  Eliminating Overlap  Deutsche Bank can only reach a goal of generating an after-
 tax return  on equity of 12 percent or more by 2015 if the asset
and wealth management and global transaction banking businesses
double profit, Jain told analysts on Sept. 11 in Frankfurt.  The company plans to boost pretax earnings at the asset and
wealth management unit to about 1.7 billion euros in 2015 from
800 million euros last year, the bank said this week.  Faissola plans to save money by eliminating overlap as he
brings Deutsche Bank’s far-flung asset and wealth management
operations under a unified structure, he told analysts in
Frankfurt. He started to combine the division’s institutional
and insurance businesses and closed an investment office in
Louisville,  Kentucky , he said at the briefing.  “There’s probably great potential for cost savings by
assimilating the businesses that make up the new division,”
said Ingo Frommen, an analyst with Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg
in Stuttgart who recommends investors buy Deutsche Bank shares.  Missed Targets  The units were “run in a vertical fashion and each product
line or regional line had their own sales force going to
clients, sometimes not even knowing there was another sales
force pitching,” Faissola said. “We have multiple marketing
teams, multiple strategy teams. We have a very fragmented real
estate strategy with people scattered all over the map.”  Deutsche Bank will spend about 400 million euros reducing
costs at the division and boosting revenue by 300 million euros
by 2015, Faissola forecast on Sept. 12. He declined to comment
for this article through his spokesman, Baki Irmak.  “This looks like the toughest challenge that any of
Deutsche Bank’s units have set,” said Helmut Hipper, a  fund
manager  at Union Investment, which holds about 1 percent of
Deutsche Bank’s shares. “This division has missed targets in
the past and there’s a lack of trust among shareholders. But we
all like to be positively surprised.”  The businesses trail some peers. The combined asset- and
wealth-management units had a pretax return on equity of 13
percent last year, while  UBS (UBSN) ’s  wealth-management  unit posted
pretax ROE of 53.5 percent and its global asset management unit
had pretax ROE of 17.1 percent, company reports show.  Credit
Suisse (CSGN) ’s private banking unit, which includes its wealth
management, retail, corporate and institutional businesses, had
a pretax ROE of 33.7 percent in 2011, while its asset management
unit reached 19.2 percent.  More Attractive  Building up the asset and wealth management business looks
increasingly attractive as tougher capital rules, Europe’s debt
crisis and sputtering economic growth weigh on profit at the
investment bank, Deutsche Bank’s biggest unit, said Dieter Hein,
an analyst with Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg.  The forecast for revenue growth at that division, known as
corporate banking & securities, is “subdued,” Colin Fan and
 Robert Rankin , who run the unit, said Sept. 12. The investment
bank is targeting after-tax ROE of about 15 percent in 2015.  “With investment banking becoming less appealing, asset
management looks more attractive in comparison,” said Hein.
“But only profitable business is worth doing.”  Faissola’s approach to solving problems helps him see his
work in context, said Eric Litvack, who worked with him on the
 International Swaps and Derivatives Association ’s board before
Faissola stepped down this year.  ‘Calm Analysis’  “Michele generally displays a quick and calm analysis and
a better capacity than most to see how events fit into the
bigger picture,” said Litvack, the global chief operating
officer of global equity flow at  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA in Paris.
“If I had to sum his input up in one word, that word would be
‘gravitas.’”  At ISDA, Faissola helped determine that Greece’s use of
collective action clauses in a restructuring of its sovereign
debt constituted a  credit event  that triggered payouts of as
much as $2.5 billion to settle default insurance contracts. He
also helped set rules after the U.S. government seizure of
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)   Faissola joined Deutsche Bank as a proprietary trader in
1995 from  Banca Nazionale dell’Agricoltura  SpA, where he was
head of  capital markets . Edson Mitchell, who mentored Jain,
hired Faissola from the unit of  Banca di Roma SpA . The Italian
moved through the investment bank’s ranks before becoming global
head of rates and commodities in 2010.  Attracting Millionaires  Faissola told analysts on Sept. 12 that he can rely on the
investment bank’s sales force and the unit’s expertise when
catering to the wealthiest clients, and also tap its presence in
 emerging markets  to help his division sell products there.  The asset and wealth management unit will also add
businesses that were previously at the investment bank. The
division will gain Abbey Life, the life insurance unit of
London-based Lloyds TSB Bank Plc that Deutsche Bank acquired in
2007, the ETF business and units that provide services to hedge
funds.  “If you particularly look at the ultra-high net worth
coverage model, the Swiss firms and Goldman Sachs, to name three
of our competitors, do a far better job,” said Jain.
“Cooperation between the investment bank and wealth management
particularly is something which we think we can mine. It’s
approaching clients together and more cohesively.”  Ultra Rich  China, India and Singapore posted the biggest increases in
millionaires last year as the Asia-Pacific region countered a
decline in wealth in western Europe and the U.S., according to
 Boston Consulting Group .  Deutsche Bank said it wants to boost the number of ultra-
high net worth individuals it caters to by about 50 percent by
2015. The firm didn’t say how many of these customers it has.  The assets under management of such investors will rise to
27 trillion euros in 2015 from 21 trillion euros last year, the
bank said, citing data from Boston Consulting.  Even so, competition for such clients is intense and there
is no quick path to success, said  Simon Adamson , an analyst with
CreditSights Inc. in London.  “It won’t be easy to convince people that Deutsche now
really has a long-term strategy for the business in place,”
Adamson said. “What it now needs is a long period of stability
to rebuild the business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  