-- Fantasy Football Is Stressful Work for Former Ameritrade Broker
-- B y   I r a   B o u d w a y
-- 2012-09-13T21:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/fantasy-football-is-stressful-work-for-former-ameritrade-broker.html
Chad Schroeder is on the clock.  The former Ameritrade stockbroker is one of a dozen men
seated in a conference room at the Bellagio hotel in Las Vegas
on the first Friday of September.  No one speaks. Not the chief psychiatrist at a hospital in
 Memphis ; not the securities analyst from  San Diego ; not the
Canadian political pundit; and not the movie producer behind
Cruel Intentions and Donnie Darko, who is calling in from his
home in  Long Island , where he’s recovering from surgery.  Schroeder sighs heavily and says “Steven Jackson.” And
with that, he has made the  St. Louis Rams  running back his third
pick in the  National Fantasy Football Championship ’s Diamond
League draft, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept. 17
issue.  The entry fee for the Diamond is $10,000 and the winner
stands to pocket $80,000. It’s the most expensive among more
than 300 pay-to-play leagues run by the sports information
company Stats, which holds its drafts in  Las Vegas ,  New York ,
and  Chicago , as well as online.  More than 1,000 players, almost all men, will spend a
combined $2 million for the right to manage some 4,000 teams in
Stats football leagues this season. There are a handful of other
companies with high-stakes leagues, but none with a five-figure
entry fee, according to Greg Ambrosius, who runs the Stats
leagues.  “There was a competing contest that did a $25,000 (league)
at one point and they actually did fill it,” said Ambrosius.
“But they of course took the money and ran.”  Luxury Tier  Ambrosius runs a luxury tier of what is now a $1.7 billion
industry with more than 34 million players, according to the
Fantasy Sports Trade Association.  The fantasy here is to make believe that you are the
manager of a group of actual professional players you’ve
selected from various teams. Their success becomes yours. When
they score touchdowns in real games, you get credit in a fantasy
world.  The vast majority of fantasy participants, said trade
association President Paul Charchian, pay much smaller entry
fees to whichever friend acts as the “commissioner” of their
private league. Among the hundreds of thousands of customers at
Charchian’s company LeagueSafe, the average entry fee is $70 and
95 percent of his customers play for under $250.  “That’s the biggest I know of,” he said of Stats’ Diamond
League.  As the Diamond League’s reigning champion, Schroeder can be
called the world’s top fantasy player. His Diamond team is one
of about 150 he’ll run this year -- 40 with Stats and the rest
with a half dozen other companies.  $180,000 Fees  All together he’s spending about $180,000 on entry fees,
some of which comes from partners who invest in his winnings.  He also plays fantasy baseball and is currently leading
Stats’ two richest baseball leagues, which could win him more
than $225,000. None of this appears to be making him happy.  “The thrill of winning is fun,” he said during a break
between drafts on a patio overlooking the Bellagio pool. “But
quite frankly, I get more angry at my failures than I enjoy my
wins.”  For the past 12 years, since he lost his job as a
stockbroker for Ameritrade when the tech bubble burst, Schroeder
has been supporting himself with sports betting and fantasy
games. Now 38 and living in Omaha,  Nebraska , he said he’s made
as much as $300,000 in a good year from fantasy football alone.  Burnt Out  While we talked on the Bellagio patio, he downed a bottle
of  Bud Light  and puffed on a cigarette. He wore a pale blue
Kansas City Royals T-shirt, shorts, flip-flops and a Titleist
baseball cap. His eyes looked weary and he discussed his fantasy
teams the way a burnt-out trader might talk about his book.  “We were having a really tough time last year,” he said.
“I’d never been through a football season where I was wrong on
so many guys that I’d drafted.”  The hardened-pro vibe is the exception in the Da Vinci wing
of the Bellagio’s convention center. For most players, the trip
is an escape where no one looks askance at spending thousands to
pretend-own a football team, and solemn discussions of the
merits of  Ray Rice  versus  Arian Foster  are welcome.  Rob Silver, the Toronto political analyst, doesn’t have to
explain the agony of losing out on $50,000 “just because a
bunch of (players) I’ve never met before colluded to have a
historically bad week all at the same time.”  No one questions why Paul Clein, the Memphis psychiatrist,
wakes at 4 a.m. on weekdays to spend a couple of hours preparing
for drafts or researching possible free-agent pickups.  No Anniversary  And Sam Andy, a retired high-school basketball coach, can
joke about having missed his wedding anniversary for the past
seven years without risk of scorn.  “We got married on the wrong weekend,” he said. “Who
knew that 49 years ago?”  Ambrosius, a 52-year-old Wisconsin native, has worked in
the fantasy business since 1989, when Krause Publications hired
him to introduce Fantasy Baseball Magazine.  He started hosting live fantasy drafts in the spring of
2004 to drum up interest in the magazine, which slumped with the
rise of the Web. He added football in the fall of that year.  Initially the drafts lost money, but paying prizes in full
and on time, Ambrosius said, helped establish trust with
customers. Last year, after some ownership shuffles, he
partnered with Stats.  Best Customers  Because fantasy players have a rooting interest in almost
every game, they are among the  National Football League ’s best
customers. The guys at the Bellagio all talked about Sundays
spent in front of NFL RedZone, the league-owned cable channel
that shows the key moments of every game live, or  DirecTV (DTV) ’s pay
package, which carries every Sunday game in its entirety.  “It just makes Sunday so damn fun,” Andy said.  While the NFL opposes efforts to legalize sports betting
outside of  Nevada , it caters to fantasy players.  In 2000, the league began offering its own online fantasy
service. And two years ago, as part of its efforts to keep
fantasy players and other fans from staying home to watch games,
it authorized teams to show the RedZone channel in stadiums.  The NFL can sanction fantasy sports, and Ambrosius can run
his high-stakes leagues, thanks to the Unlawful Internet
Gambling Enforcement Act. The 2006 federal law clamped down on
U.S. companies processing payments for sports bets but left an
exception for fantasy games where “outcomes reflect the
relative knowledge and skill of the participants.”  Proposition Bets  Before the law, Schroeder did most of his wagering through
overseas sports books that offered a wide array of so-called
“proposition bets.”  He made a killing, for instance, on the  Florida Marlins  at
110-1 odds to win MLB’s National League pennant in 2003. But the
law made these bets much harder to place, which cut down on the
volume the houses need to turn a profit on them. With fewer prop
bets offered, Schroeder turned to high-stakes fantasy sports to
make up the difference.  But now he pines for the simpler world of straight betting,
where you don’t have to spend your hours hunting for a
replacement for an injured tight end.  “I don’t enjoy it,” he said. “I don’t handle the stress
of things too well sometimes. I’m used to gambling. If you have
a bad day, it’s over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ira Boudway in New York at 
 iboudway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Julian Sancton at 
 jsancton@bloomberg.net ;
Keenan Mayo at 
 kmayo3@bloomberg.net  