-- Fed Approach on Quantitative Easing Receives Partisan Criticism
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-09-13T21:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/fed-approach-on-quantitative-easing-receives-partisan-criticism.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s decision to
expand holdings of long-term securities with purchases of
mortgage debt drew criticism from Republicans in Congress and
support from Democrats.  Republicans cited the Fed’s announcement today as evidence
that President  Barack Obama ’s policies have failed. They
questioned whether the central bank is risking further market
uncertainty, inflation and its own political independence.  They also questioned whether the Fed’s quantitative easing
would do anything to jump start the economy and lower the
country’s 8.1 percent  jobless  rate. Democrats praised the move
as needed, particularly given the political gridlock they said
has stalled Obama’s economic recovery program.  “Today’s actions make clear that the president’s economic
policies have failed to create the jobs he promised,” House
Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio said in a statement. “Republicans
have outlined a better plan and passed more than 30 jobs bills
that deserve the support of Senate Democrats and this
president.”  Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican who is vice
chairman of the Joint Economic Committee in Congress, told
reporters that he suspected the Fed’s approach won’t work and
will result in “short-term uncertainty in the market.”  Republican Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee  said in a
statement that Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  “is beginning to do
serious damage to the Fed as an institution” because “open-
ended purchases of mortgage-backed securities will politicize
the Fed and add substantially to its balance-sheet risk.”  Market Reaction  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 1.6 percent to
1,459.99 at the close of trading in New York. The yield on the
10-year Treasury note rose to 1.74 percent from as low as 1.71
percent.  Democrats are “optimistic it will have a positive impact
on the economy,” House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of
California told reporters. “It already had an impact on the
stock market,” she said. “So from a confidence standpoint it
has already had an effect.”  Pelosi said the Fed’s action is needed because
“Republicans have refused to support many of the initiatives”
that Obama proposed to create jobs. If Congress had acted on the
president’s job-creation legislation “we could be farther down
the road in the economy recovery.”  Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Tim Johnson , a South
Dakota Democrat, said in a statement that “we should be using
every tool in the toolbox to create jobs and spur growth, so it
is encouraging to see the Fed continue to take aggressive action
to stabilize the overall economy.”  Ohio  Republican Representative Pat Tiberi questioned
whether injecting more money into the economy would help average
people.  “I don’t know how it is going to help Main Street
businesses and people who live off of Main Street,” Tiberi told
reporters. “We’ve had historic low rates for how long? How does
that impact” the economy and “how will that continue to impact
people, particularly seniors, who are living on a fixed
income?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  