-- Federal Reserve’s FAQs on Agency MBS Purchases (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-09-13T20:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/federal-reserve-s-faqs-on-agency-mbs-purchases-text-.html
Following is the text of the
 Federal Reserve ’s frequently asked questions regarding agency
mortgage-backed securities:  FAQs: Agency MBS Purchases  The following frequently asked questions (FAQs) provide further
information about the Federal Reserve’s additional asset
purchases of agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) announced
by the  Federal Open Market Committee  (FOMC) on September 13,
2012, and the reinvestment of principal payments from agency
securities.  Effective September 13, 2012  General:  Why is the Desk purchasing agency MBS?
On September 13, 2012, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC)
directed the Open Market Trading Desk (the Desk) at the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  to begin purchasing additional agency
mortgage-backed securities (MBS) at a pace of $40 billion per
month. The FOMC also directed the Desk to continue through the
end of the year its program to extend the average maturity of
its holdings of  Treasury securities  as announced in June and to
maintain its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments
from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency
MBS in agency MBS.  The FOMC noted that these actions, which together will increase
the Committee’s holdings of longer-term securities by about $85
billion each month through the end of the year, should put
downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support
mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions
more accommodative.  What types of agency MBS will the Desk purchase?  Agency MBS purchases will likely be concentrated in newly-issued
agency MBS in the To-Be-Announced (TBA) market because these
securities have greater liquidity and are closely tied to
primary  mortgage rates . The Desk may purchase other agency MBS
if market conditions warrant. Only fixed-rate agency MBS
securities guaranteed by  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac  and Ginnie Mae
are eligible assets for purchase. These eligible assets include,
but are not limited to, 30-year and 15-year securities of these
issuers. Ineligible assets include CMOs, REMICs, Trust IOs/Trust
POs and other mortgage derivatives or cash equivalents.  What explains changes in the total current face value of agency
securities held in the SOMA?
The total current face value of agency MBS held in the System
Open Market Account (SOMA) will increase as a result of
additional asset purchases. The pace of the increase in holdings
will fluctuate somewhat due to differences between trade and
settlement dates for transactions of agency MBS, and due to the
timing of principal payment dates for agency debt and agency
MBS.  How much will the Desk purchase each month in agency MBS
associated with the additional asset purchases and how will this
be communicated?  Pursuant to the FOMC’s directive on September 13, 2012, the Desk
expects to purchase $40 billion in additional agency MBS each
calendar month. Details associated with the additional amount of
MBS to be purchased each month will be announced on or around
the last business day of the prior month.  How much will the Desk purchase each month in agency MBS
associated with the reinvestment program and how will this be
communicated?  On or around the eighth business day of each month, the Desk
will publish a tentative amount of reinvestment-related
purchases expected to take place between the middle of the
current month and the middle of the following month. This amount
will be approximately equal to the amount of principal payments
from agency debt and agency MBS expected to be received over
that period, adjusted for any variations from prior periods.
Adjustments for any deviation between anticipated and actual
agency MBS purchases over a given monthly period will be made by
modifying the following month’s agency MBS purchases. For
example, if actual agency MBS purchases were $1 billion smaller
(larger) than previously announced, the Desk would increase
(decrease) the following month’s anticipated agency MBS
purchases by $1 billion.  How would a change in the FOMC directive be reflected in the
Desk’s published schedule?  MBS purchase amounts published by the Desk are based on already
announced FOMC decisions, and make no assumptions about future
policy actions. Accordingly, if the FOMC announced a
modification to its policy stance with a new policy directive,
the Desk would release an updated statement regarding MBS
purchases.  Will the Federal Reserve conduct agency MBS dollar rolls or
coupon swaps?  The Desk may use dollar roll and coupon swap transactions if
needed to facilitate settlement associated with its unsettled
agency MBS purchases. A dollar roll is a transaction that
generally involves the purchase or sale of agency MBS for
delivery in the current month, with the simultaneous agreement
to sell or purchase substantially similar (although not
necessarily the same) securities on a specified future date. A
coupon swap is a transaction that involves the sale of one
agency MBS and the simultaneous purchase of another agency MBS,
each with different coupons.  Would agency MBS dollar roll or coupon swap transactions reduce
the amount of total outright agency MBS purchases?  No. Dollar roll and coupon swap transactions are the
simultaneous sale and purchase of the same face amount of agency
MBS. Thus, they only affect the timing or composition of the
settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS purchases.  Does the Federal Reserve assess the TMPG agency MBS Fails
Charge?  Yes. Beginning February 1, 2012, the failure of the Federal
Reserve’s counterparties to deliver agency MBS for the
contractual settlement date of the Desk’s trades has resulted in
the Federal Reserve assessing the applicable agency MBS Fails
Charge recommended by the Treasury Market Practices Group
(TMPG). Additional information can be found at
 http://newyorkfed.org/tmpg .  Will principal payments from other Federal Reserve holdings,
such as those held in the Maiden Lane portfolios, be reinvested
in agency MBS?  No. The FOMC directed the Desk to reinvest principal payments
from agency securities held in the SOMA portfolio. Principal
payments from other Federal Reserve holdings, including the
Maiden Lane portfolio and SOMA assets denominated in foreign
currencies, are unrelated to this directive.  How will transactions of agency MBS affect the  New York  Fed’s
aggregation of agency MBS CUSIPs in the SOMA portfolio announced
in January 2011?  The Desk will aggregate the SOMA’s agency MBS holdings as
needed. Additional information on the New York Fed’s aggregation
of the SOMA’s agency MBS CUSIPs can be found at
 http://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/Agency_MBS_CUSIP_Aggregation_f 
aqs.html. The New York Fed will continue to publish information
about its aggregated CUSIPs on its public website.  Operations:  Who is eligible to transact in agency MBS with the Federal
Reserve?  The New York Fed’s primary dealers are eligible to transact in
agency MBS directly with the Federal Reserve. Primary dealers
are expected to submit bids or offers for themselves and for
their customers.  How will agency MBS transactions be conducted?  Agency MBS transactions will take place in the secondary market
through a competitive bidding process and in line with standard
market practices. At this time, the Desk plans to continue to
conduct agency MBS transactions over TradeWeb’s electronic
trading platform, though trading may occur by other means if
desirable.  How often will purchases take place?  Purchases will be conducted on a frequent basis over the course
of each month, and will be guided by general MBS market
conditions, including, but not limited to, supply and demand
conditions, market liquidity, and market volatility.  Under what circumstances may the Federal Reserve conduct agency
MBS dollar rolls?  Based on the directive from the FOMC, the Desk may conduct
dollar rolls in order to facilitate settlement associated with
its unsettled agency MBS purchases. Selling dollar rolls
effectively postpones the settlement of outstanding forward
purchase commitments, while buying dollar rolls effectively
brings settlement forward. Dollar rolls would typically be
conducted only if implied financing rates on agency MBS are
notably below or above the general level of short-term  interest
rates , as such conditions may signal a shortage or abundance of
supply, respectively, available for settlement. The Desk may
conduct dollar rolls throughout the month ahead of TBA
settlement dates and will seek to complete most such
transactions at least four business days prior to settlement.
During the month, the Desk will increase the amount of dollar
rolls conducted as the degree of shortage or abundance of supply
indicated by implied financing rates increases.  Under what circumstances may the Federal Reserve conduct agency
MBS coupon swaps?  Based on the directive from the FOMC, the Desk may conduct
coupon swaps in order to facilitate settlement associated with
its unsettled agency MBS purchases. However, the Desk does not
anticipate conducting such transactions unless market conditions
suggest the settlement of purchases is unlikely over a
significant period of time, as suggested by persistent and
notably negative dollar-roll implied financing rates, prolonged
fails, or other market functioning indicators.  Will the Federal Reserve use investment managers, or other
vendors, to conduct agency MBS transactions?  The New York Fed will use internal staff to execute agency MBS
transactions. Wellington Management Company will continue to
provide investment management services and JPMorgan Chase will
continue to provide custodial services.  Reporting:  How are the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS holdings reported?  Agency MBS transactions are reported after settlement occurs on
the H.4.1. statistical release titled “Factors Affecting Reserve
Balances of Depository Institutions and Condition Statement of
Federal Reserve Banks.” This report also includes information on
total outstanding commitments to buy and sell MBS in a
supplemental table entitled “Supplemental Information on
Mortgage-Backed Securities.” Trade settlements may occur well
after trade execution due to agency MBS settlement conventions.
In addition, the New York Fed publishes the most recent SOMA
agency MBS transaction activity in more detail on its website on
a weekly basis. The New York Fed also publishes on a weekly
basis detailed data on all settled SOMA agency MBS holdings. Any
change in the composition of these reported holdings over time
is a function of principal payments, outright purchases, dollar
roll, and coupon swap activity.  Will the Desk release operation pricing results?  Yes. In order to ensure the transparency of its agency MBS
transactions, the Desk will continue to publish historical
operational results, including information on the transaction
prices in individual operations, mid-month, for the prior
monthly period. Operational results will include agency MBS
transactions associated with both the additional asset purchases
and the reinvestment program. In addition to the pricing
information released each month, Section 1103 of the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 requires
that detailed operational results, including counterparty names,
be released two years after each quarterly transaction period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  