-- Feinstein Sees `No Evidence' Deadly Libya Attack Planned
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-09-13T22:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/feinstein-sees-no-evidence-deadly-libya-attack-planned.html
Senator  Dianne Feinstein , chairman
of the Senate intelligence panel, said she sees “no evidence or
no assessment” that the attack on the U.S. consulate in
Benghazi,  Libya , was preplanned.  Feinstein, a California Democrat, spoke today on CNN after
the committee was briefed for several hours by Central
Intelligence Agency Director David Petraeus. The Sept. 11
assault on the U.S. mission that killed four Americans may have
begun as a spontaneous protest, which some in the crowd
exploited to escalate the violence, she said.  “There was a protest, and it could well be that quickly
some two dozen people took that as an opportunity to attack,”
she said.  It was a reversal for Feinstein, who a day earlier was
among lawmakers saying that militant groups such as al-Qaeda may
have engaged in a premeditated attack that ended in the killing
of U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans. The
attack may have been preplanned because “the weapons were
somewhat sophisticated, and they blew a hole in the building and
started a big fire,” Feinstein said yesterday.  Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican who heads
the House intelligence committee, hasn’t changed his assessment
that militants with ties to al-Qaeda may have preplanned the
attack, Susan Phalen, a spokesman for Rogers said today in a
phone interview.  ‘Coordinated Event’  “This wasn’t a group of individuals who ran down to the
garage and picked up a few AK-47s and showed up and started
shooting at the consulate,” Rogers, a former FBI agent, told
reporters earlier today in  Washington . “This was clearly a
planned, coordinated event that took place on 9/11. And as an
old FBI guy, you don’t believe in too many coincidences, let
alone that many coincidences all in the same day.”  Demonstrators outside the Benghazi consulate were
protesting an anti-Islamic video posted on YouTube. The video,
which ridicules the Islamic Prophet Muhammad, also has sparked
protests and clashes in  Egypt , Tunisia and Yemen.  Protests spread for a third day today. In Sana’a, Yemen’s
capital, assailants breached the U.S. embassy’s security
perimeter and set two cars on fire as security forces fired into
the air to disperse the crowd, according to Yousef Al-Ahjan, one
of the demonstrators. One protester was killed and five injured,
Al Arabiya television reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  