-- Finland Plans to Offset Costs to Industry From EU Sulfur Rules
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-09-13T09:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/finland-plans-to-offset-costs-to-industry-from-eu-sulfur-rules.html
Finland’s government will
compensate the country’s industry for higher transportation
costs caused by a European Union law cutting sulfur emissions,
Economy Minister Jyri Haekaemies said.  “We’ll go through different available instruments to
respond to the increased costs,” Haekaemies said in an
interview in Helsinki today. “The forest industry is the most
concerned and considers it a major cost increase. These messages
will be taken seriously and we’ll see in March how far the
government is prepared to go.”  The new rules requiring a reduction of sulfur used in
marine fuel will cost Finnish industry about 600 million euros
($775 million) each year, the equivalent of about 12,000 jobs,
the Federation of Finnish Technology Industries said Sept. 11.  Exports account for about 40 percent of the Nordic nation’s
economy, including paper sold by  Stora Enso Oyj (STEAV)  and  UPM-Kymmene
Oyj (UPM1V) , as well as steel delivered by  Rautaruukki Oyj. (RTRKS)  More than 80
percent of Finnish foreign trade is transported on ships and
affected by the new sulfur rule.  The forest industry  said  Sept. 11 its costs will increase
by 200 million euros each year and UPM Chief Executive Officer
Jussi Pesonen said the papermaker will shift about 300,000 tons
of paper production to  Central Europe  to escape the higher cost,
newspaper Maaseudun Tulevaisuus reported on Sept. 7.  The first part of the regulations will affect vessels in
the  Baltic Sea , the  North Sea  and the  English Channel , limiting
sulfur in fuel to 0.1 percent in 2015 compared with 1 percent
now. The sulfur limit in other EU waters will drop to 0.5
percent in 2020 from as much as 3.5 percent now.  No amount is yet set for the compensation, Haekaemies said.
The government negotiates its spending framework for four years
until 2017 next March. The talks are “the target date by which
we aim to specify the amount and who gets the compensation, so
that it goes to those most affected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  