-- Firms From Law to Finance Benefit From $1 Billion TARP Expenses
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-09-13T21:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/firms-from-law-to-finance-benefit-from-1-billion-tarp-expenses.html
While Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  lauded the government’s sale of  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  shares this week, the U.S. bailout program reached
another milestone.  Expenses from the Troubled Asset Relief Program have passed
$1 billion, with more than 70 percent of that going to
“financial agents and legal firms,” according to Treasury
Department data released Sept. 10. The total paid to the
companies as of Aug. 31 was 37 percent more than it was a year
earlier.  Companies that have been paid for TARP work include
investment firm Houlihan Lokey, which reached a $4.5 million
deal in November to advise the Treasury on managing and selling
bank stakes, according to a July report by TARP’s special
inspector general. Law firm Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP
agreed in 2009 and 2010 to contracts worth about $25 million,
most of it for work related to auto-industry bailouts.  TARP was enacted under the George W. Bush administration
amid the 2008 financial crisis and continued under President
 Barack Obama . The government used funds to rescue banks
including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Bank of America Corp., and
automakers  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  Expenses Fall  While the cumulative costs of operating TARP climb,
expenses are falling on an annual basis. The total cost of
administering the program was $52.3 million, or 16 percent, less
in the 12 months ending Aug. 31 than it was a year earlier,
Treasury spokesman  Matthew Anderson  said in an e-mail.  The administrative costs are 0.27 percent of the $366
billion the government has recovered from TARP. About $417
billion was disbursed.  “TARP has been a very cost-effective program,” Anderson
said. “It helped break the back of an historic financial
crisis.” He said Treasury is “continuing to cut the
administrative budget as we wind down the program.”  The U.S. has recovered its full $182.3 billion commitment
to New York-based AIG under the bailout after Treasury’s latest
sale this week with a profit. The $15.1 billion return includes
results from the Federal Reserve portion of the rescue, such as
a  credit line  and the purchase of mortgage-linked securities.  “Taking action to stabilize AIG during the financial
crisis was something the government should never have had to do,
but we had no better option at the time to protect the American
economy,” Geithner said in a Sept. 10 statement. “To stabilize
and then restructure the company with a very substantial
positive gain for the American taxpayer is a significant
accomplishment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  