-- First-Generation College Students Mentoring: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-09-13T18:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/first-generation-college-students-mentoring-scene.html
With his well-worn serious
expression and preternatural calm, Ray McGuire,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
global head of corporate and investment banking, quoted the rap
song “3 Kings”: “We started out mopping floors. And now we
front row at the awards.”  They were fitting words as he accepted an award at the  New
York Needs You  benefit last night at Cipriani 42nd Street. The
organization pairs first-generation college students, many of
whom maintain minimum-wage jobs to help pay for school, with
young professionals for two years of intensive mentoring.  Take Damien Hooper-Campbell, who works at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , and Jeff McClellan, a student at  Baruch College .  When McClellan’s apartment building burned down last
spring, Hooper-Campbell took him in and helped him find dorm
housing. He also coached him through interview questions and
resume writing. And he introduced him to the clothier Charles
Tyrwhitt, where he bought business attire with his  New York 
Needs You stipend.  The salesman taught him how to tie a half-windsor.  “He knows better than I do,” Hooper-Campbell said of
McClellan, who had an internship at Goldman Sachs over the
summer.  McGuire is a dedicated mentor too. “I find it important to
respond to every e-mail and phone call,” McGuire said as
waiters in white jackets passed out Bellinis. “I share my
experiences and I give whatever advice I can. I want to push
people to excellence so they can compete. It’s a harsh world we
live in.”  Cold E-Mail  Twelve years ago McGuire replied to a cold e-mail from a
college student, Robert Reffkin.  “He just reached out, I thought it was a thoughtful
note,” McGuire said.  His pushing helped lead Reffkin to his current post as
chief of staff to the president of Goldman Sachs,  Gary Cohn .
Reffkin has also run 49 marathons in 49 states since December
2007, to raise $1 million for the nonprofits that helped him in
his youth.  Four years ago Reffkin founded New York Needs You “to
institutionalize what Ray does,” Reffkin said.  The organization plans to go national, and this fall
started a mentoring program in  New Jersey , increasing its budget
to $3.2 million from $2.6 million.  Onstage, as 625 guests ate vegetable lasagna and sea bass,
McGuire cited Proverbs: “He who rules his spirit is more
powerful than he who takes a city.”  Inner City  He told his own story, of growing up in the inner city
raised by a single mother.  “No play dates,” McGuire recounted.  He earned three degrees at Harvard and after a 28-year
career, said that “there are only 5 to 10 professionals who do
what he does and only one of them happens to be black.”  He ended with a benediction.  “May grace and peace cover you with joy,” he said.  He then returned to his seat, joining his wife, Crystal
McCrary, who is seven months’ pregnant with a boy.  Reffkin too is approaching happy milestones. He’s running
his 50th marathon in New York on Nov. 4, completing his
“Running to Support Young Dreams” challenge.  Vera Wang  And on Nov. 10 he will be married to Benis Reyes, who works
in private-wealth management at Goldman. The couple met at a
gala for the  Council of Urban Professionals . Reyes said she’ll
wear  Vera Wang  to the wedding, which will be held at the
Scarsdale Woman’s Club in the Westchester suburb of Scarsdale,
New York.  During dessert -- heaps of strawberries and cream and lemon
meringue cake fit for a family celebration -- silent-auction
items were on offer. Daniel Malone of  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s investment-
banking unit bid on a “full suit” by  Bonobos  valued at $1,000.
Lesley Schulhof, wearing Oscar de la Renta, bid $900 on one of
his dresses.  Dinner chairmen including Andrew Marks of Blue Ridge
Capital LLC and Ben Tisch of  Loews Corp. (L)  helped the gala raise
$1.7 million.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 