-- Florida Early Voting Plan for Five Counties Approved
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/florida-early-voting-plan-for-five-counties-approved.html
Florida ’s plan for five counties
that allows for 96 hours of early voting over eight days was
approved by the U.S. after a federal court rejected a previous
proposal as harming minority voters.  The U.S.  Justice Department , in a filing yesterday federal
court in  Washington , said it has no objection to Florida’s early
voting plan for five counties and will seek to have the state’s
lawsuit against it be dismissed. Those hours would only apply to
the five counties -- Collier, Hardee, Hendry, Hillsborough and
Monroe -- which are covered by Section 5 of the federal Voting
Rights Act.  “The attorney general does not interpose any objection to
the specified changes,” according to a letter to Florida from
T. Christian Herren, the head of the department’s voting
section.  A three-judge panel in Washington on Aug. 16 blocked a new
Florida rule that would have cut early voting days in those
counties by almost half, saying the change could affect non-
white voters.  In the 2008 election, 54 percent of black voters in Florida
voted early, which was twice the rate for whites, the judges
said in their ruling. According to a report paid for by the
 Democratic National Committee , 1.1 million blacks voted in the
state in 2008. President  Barack Obama  won Florida by 236,450
votes.  67 Counties  The Florida ruling stemmed from a lawsuit against the U.S.
filed in August 2011 to compel the Justice Department to approve
curtailed voting hours and a reduction in the number of early
voting days to eight from 14 in five of Florida’s 67 counties.  Under the Voting Rights Act of 1965, Florida must get
permission from the department to make any changes in election
rules in the five counties or sue to win approval of them from
the special three-judge panel in Washington.  The early voting cutbacks were among several changes in
election procedures passed by the Republican-controlled Florida
legislature last year.  Another challenge to early voting cutbacks to the other
counties is currently pending in federal court in Florida.  Mitchell Rivard, a Justice Department spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail message yesterday after regular
business hours seeking comment on the filing.  Chris Cate, a spokesman for the Florida Department of
State, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail yesterday seeking
comment on the filing after regular business hours.  The case is Florida v. U.S., 1:11-cv-01428, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  