-- Fortescue Holds Talks With Lenders on Potential Debt Waivers
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-09-13T23:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/fortescue-extends-decline-after-media-debt-report-sydney-mover.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FSUGY) ,
 Australia ’s third-biggest iron ore producer, said it’s in talks
with lenders for potential changes to debt terms after price
declines, triggering a record drop in its U.S. securities.  The company is seeking “potential waivers in the event
that covenants are put under pressure by extended volatility in
the iron ore market,” Perth-based Fortescue said yesterday in a
statement. It said it remains fully compliant with its financial
covenants and has full access to all its funding facilities.  Fortescue, which has A$8.7 billion ($9.2 billion) of  debt ,
held a call last week to reassure bankers in  Asia  about its
finances as it seeks to syndicate a $1.5 billion facility,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Iron ore  has
fallen 31 percent this year, prompting the company this month to
cut its annual spending forecast by 26 percent to $4.6 billion.  “The company lacks flexibility to operate in a way it
would like to because it’s being constrained by the fall in the
iron ore price, ” said  David Lennox , a resources analyst at Fat
Prophets in Sydney, said by phone. This “has impacted the
balance sheet and the debt ratio,” he said.  Fotescue’s  American depositary receipts  fell 12 percent
overnight to $6.45, after their Sydney-traded shares yesterday
fell the most since Dec. 22, 2008, cutting the company’s market
value to A$9.3 billion and slicing about A$500 million off
Chairman  Andrew Forrest ’s wealth.  Debt Compliant  The company is “compliant” with the terms of its debt,
Chief Executive Officer Neville Power said yesterday in  Hong
Kong . The company extended the syndication deadline until the
end of the month, according to a person with knowledge of the
situation this week.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Fortescue’s $2.04
billion of 7 percent bonds due in November 2015, instead of
Treasuries, surged 56 basis points yesterday to 756 basis points,
BNP Paribas SA prices showed.  “If Fortescue has breached its covenants, then it would be
up to the lenders and the company to negotiate going forward,”
Fat Prophet’s Lennox said yesterday by phone. “But generally it
would require some type of injection of capital or some form of
restructure or repayment.”  Moody’s said Sept. 4 that Fortescue, rated Ba3, remained
under review for a debt-rating cut as a result of the drop in
iron ore prices. A rebound in iron ore to about $115 to $125 a
ton will “substantially reduce concerns around liquidity and
covenant pressure,” it said.  The company may face a $1.7 billion expansion funding
shortfall on lower cash-flow estimates, Citigroup Inc. said in a
Sept. 5 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  