-- Friedland Seeks Congo Funding After Gobi Exit: Corporate Canada
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-09-13T15:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/friedland-seeks-congo-funding-after-gobi-exit-corporate-canada.html
Robert Friedland, the billionaire
who spent the past decade building a $6 billion  copper mine  in
Mongolia’s Gobi Desert, is asking investors to fund projects in
an even riskier locale -- the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Ivanplats Ltd. , a Friedland-controlled mining company,
plans to raise about C$300 million ($307 million) in an initial
public offering in Toronto, according to a person with knowledge
of the IPO who declined to be identified because the amount
hasn’t been published. Vancouver-based Ivanplats seeks funding
for its Kamoa copper project in Congo and to repay debt owed to
Israeli investor Dan Gertler, who sold the company a zinc mine
in the African country last year, according to a prospectus
filed with regulators Sept. 10.  Friedland, 62, five months ago lost control of the  Oyu
Tolgoi  mine in Mongolia after disputes with the government and
joint venture partner  Rio Tinto Group. (RIO)  He’s now proposing a
mining development in Congo, whose government seized copper
assets from Canada’s  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  in 2010, and in
 South Africa , where the  mining industry  is convulsed by labor
unrest.  “I would call the DRC the ultimate high-risk, high-reward
mining destination -- it’s one that’s on the radar of all
serious mining companies because of its huge wealth and mineral
resources,” James Smither, head of the mining practice at
 Maplecroft , a Bath, England-based risk-analysis company, said by
telephone.  “With that comes a significant array of potential pitfalls
ranging from political uncertainty to contractual variances and
very significant security challenges,” he said.  Marc Faber  A C$300 million share sale would be the third-largest
Canadian mining IPO since at least 1999, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Franco-Nevada Corp. (FNV)  raised $1.26 billion
in a 2007 offering while  Tahoe Resources Inc. (THO)  sold $365.4
million of stock in 2010.  Friedland had planned to sell as much as $1 billion of
Ivanplats shares, people with knowledge of the situation said in
mid-January. Since then,  China’s economy  has slowed and Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis remains unresolved.  Ivanplats’ board of directors includes  Cyril Ramaphosa ,
chairman of South Africa’s Shanduka Group Ltd., and  Marc Faber ,
author of the Gloom, Boom & Doom report, the prospectus shows.
Lars-Eric Johansson is chief executive officer.  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  is leading a group of underwriters
including  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  and  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY) , according to the document.  Voisey’s Bay  Friedland, who lives in Singapore and has a net worth
estimated by  Forbes  at $2.3 billion, wasn’t immediately
available for comment, according to a spokesman.  The Chicago-born businessman befriended  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  co-
founder  Steve Jobs  while a student at Reed College in Portland,
Oregon, before going on to invest in a gold-mining company in
the 1980s.  His first multibillion-dollar deal came in the 1990s when,
as co-chairman of Diamond Field Resources Inc., the owner of the
Voisey’s Bay nickel deposit, Friedland presided over a bidding
war between Canadian miners Inco Ltd. and Falconbridge Ltd. Inco
paid C$4.3 billion for the project in 1996.  Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., a company controlled by Friedland,
signed an option in 2000 to explore in Mongolia, which led to
its acquisition of the Oyu Tolgoi project.  Even after attracting Rio as an investor and starting
construction, Ivanhoe faced political pressure. Ivanhoe shares
fell in September 2011 after Mongolia said that it wanted to
increase its stake in the project. It agreed in October to keep
its existing holding.  ‘Extreme’ Risk  While the level of business integrity and corruption risk
in Mongolia is “high,” in Congo it’s “extreme,” Maplecroft
said in a July report. The risk of interference by Congolese
authorities in private assets is always a possibility, said
Daniel Balint-Kurti, a campaign leader at  Global Witness , a non-
profit group targeting corruption and human-rights abuses
involving natural resources.  “There is also clearly a risk of confiscation of assets,”
Balint-Kurti said in an interview from London yesterday. “The
justice system is generally seen as not being independent,
meaning you’re more at the mercy of what government officials
want you to do.”  Ivanplats estimates that the Kamoa project in Congo’s
southern Katanga province, the center of the country’s copper
industry, will cost about $2 billion to develop, according to
the prospectus.  Gertler Deal  The risks associated with the country were demonstrated in
2010 when Congo concluded a review of mining concessions and
canceled a contract allowing Vancouver-based First Quantum to
extract copper at the Kolwezi project in Katanga. The move was
was criticized by Global Witness and the Atlanta-based Carter
Center for a lack of transparency.  Congolese state-owned mining firm La Generale des Carrieres
et des Mines -- also known as Gecamines -- subsequently seized a
controlling stake in Kolwezi. Gecamines then sold the holding to
Gertler, who then sold it to London-based Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp. as part of a $175 million deal in August 2010.  First Quantum sued ENRC and Gertler-affiliated companies
for more than $2 billion. The dispute was settled in January
when ENRC agreed to pay First Quantum $1.25 billion. Shimon
Cohen, a London-based spokesman for Gertler, said Gertler was
unavailable for comment.  Platinum Project  Ivanplats bought 68 percent of the Kipushi zinc and copper
mine from Gertler in November 2011, and has paid him $45
million, with at least $100 million still owed, according to the
Ivanplats prospectus. Ivanplats will pay Gertler as much as $105
million should its IPO raise $250 million or more by Dec. 14,
the prospectus shows.  The Platreef platinum and nickel project, 280 kilometers
(175 miles) northeast of Johannesburg in South Africa’s Bushveld
mining complex, is another Ivanplats project. The country’s
platinum industry, the largest in the world, has seen production
disrupted by labor unrest in the past month. Violence associated
with a strike at Johannesburg-based  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s operations has
left 45 dead. Platinum futures have jumped 19 percent in the
past month in  New York  trading.  Friedland’s greatest talent “is finding prize assets, the
biggest and the best, and growing them -- he’s doing that with
Ivanplats,”  John Goldsmith , vice president of Canadian equities
at Montrusco Bolton Investments Inc., which oversees C$5.1
billion, said yesterday by telephone from Toronto. “I would
never bet against him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  