-- Future Is Now for JPMorgan Global Growth Gauge: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-09-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/future-is-now-for-jpmorgan-global-growth-gauge-cutting-research.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. economists are
trying their hand at “nowcasting” to measure the health of the
world economy.  A new index, produced by economists led by New York-based
Bruce Kasman, calculates global growth by combining purchasing
manager indicators, retail and auto sales, industrial production
and capital goods shipments as data are published each month.  The gauge explains 85 percent of the variation in worldwide
expansions from the start of 2000 to the second quarter, the
economists said in a Sept. 5 report. A previous measure based on
PMI data from multiple countries had a 67 percent success rate.  The index “is a remarkably good tracker of global real
gross domestic product growth,” they wrote. “The addition of
new information over the quarter yields a marked improvement in
the forecasting accuracy.”  Their measure points to 2 percent global growth in the
current quarter, about the same as JPMorgan Chase’s official
estimate.  Embracing nowcasting, which Kasman and colleagues define as
tracking current-quarter growth rather than forecasting future
quarters, is a mounting trend, say economists including Marta
Banbura of the  European Central Bank  and Lucrezia Reichlin of
 Now-Casting Economics Ltd.   “The traditional approach is limited since it does not
provide a framework for the reading of the flow of data as they
become available,” the two economists said in a paper published
this month by the London-based  Centre for Economic Policy
Research.   * * *  The current floor for  oil prices  averaging about $90 a
barrel may become a ceiling over the next decade as new sources
of supply are tapped, according to  Edward Morse , head of
commodities research at Citigroup Global Markets in  New York .  U.S. companies are now spending six times what they were a
decade ago to find and  develop  oil and gas, while  Canada  has
access to  oil sands  producing 2 million barrels a day. Like the
U.S.,  Brazil , African nations and “perhaps” even  China  are
probing deep-water resources, Morse wrote in a Sept. 12 report.  Taking advantage of such supplies becomes attractive when
oil costs more than $75 a barrel, meaning so long as it does
supply will outpace consumption on a sustained basis for the
first time in more than 20 years, said Morse, a former U.S.
State Department adviser.  * * *  Who let Eastern Europe be flooded with investment, helping
create the region’s subsequent recession? That’s the subject of
a study by International Monetary Fund economists.  Data from about 20 countries in the region show it received
a capital inflow that at the 2007 peak equaled 15 percent of
regional gross domestic product, IMF economists Ruben Atoyan,
Albert Jaeger and Dustin Smith wrote in a  Sept. 11 working 
paper. That was three times the relative size of flows into all
other emerging economies combined.  Still “in a state of ferment” is the question of whether
the subsequent asset bubbles were the fault of greedy investors,
unfocused regulators or free-spending governments. In any case,
tighter fiscal policies wouldn’t have stemmed inflows, the
economists conclude.  “While forceful countercyclical fiscal policies could have
slowed down capital inflows, this would not have been effective
in countering inflows of the magnitude faced by some of the
countries,” the researchers wrote.  * * *  The consumption choices of the poor may be doing little to
lift them out of poverty.  That’s the finding of a study published this week in
Economic Journal by Omer Moav of the  Hebrew University of
Jerusalem  and Zvika Neeman of Tel Aviv University.  “Poor families around the world spend a large fraction of
their income consuming goods that do not appear to alleviate
poverty, while saving at low rates,” Moav and Neeman wrote.  They cited reports that found median spending on festivals
runs as high as 10 percent of income in some regions of  India 
and that black households in  South Africa  spend on average a
year’s income on an adult’s funeral. At the same time, the very
poor spend as little as 2 percent of their income on their
children’s education and don’t eat well.  While cultures or social norms could influence spending
decisions, Moav and Neeman concluded the people are committing
“conspicuous consumption” by meeting their society’s
expectations regardless of income.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .
Boris Groendahl at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net .
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  