-- Gap’s Old Navy Adds Backstreet Boys After 90210 for Nostalgia
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-09-13T13:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/gap-s-old-navy-adds-backstreet-boys-after-90210-for-nostalgia.html
Gap Inc. (GPS) ’s Old Navy, the retailer’s
biggest brand, has used 1990s stars from “Beverly Hills 90210”
and New Kids on the Block in revamped marketing this year. Its
latest addition is the Backstreet Boys.  The pop group will play at a free runway show tomorrow in
New York’s Bryant Park, Old Navy’s first event during Fashion
Week, and will feature them in commercials starting Sept. 19,
said Michelle DeMartini, its head of adult merchandising and
brand licensing. The unit’s sales are up in 2012, after sliding
4 percent to $5.67 billion in the year ended Jan. 28.  “Our target customer grew up in the ’90s, and that time
period conjures an emotional connection,” DeMartini said in an
e-mail. “In recent campaigns, we’ve worked with a number of
actors and musicians who remind her of that nostalgic decade,
such as Mr. T and Jordan Knight, and we’ve gotten really
positive feedback.”  Old Navy ’s use of nostalgia to connect with its core
customer of 25- to 35-year-old women is a part of its new
marketing platform implemented in November, and has included ads
with Jennie Garth of “Beverly Hills 90210,” and Knight of New
Kids on the Block. The brand, which accounts for about 39
percent of Gap’s revenue, changed course after confusing
customers last year with original songs and music videos in its
“Old Navy Records” campaign.  Rockstar Jeans  The 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. event tomorrow will showcase shoppers
modeling Old Navy’s Rockstar jeans to highlight their universal
fit and the brand’s inclusiveness, while commercials for the
jeans will feature the hit single “Everybody (Backstreet’s
Back)” by the Backstreet Boys, DeMartini said. The show will be
hosted by Jenny McCarthy, the former Playboy model who hosted
 MTV ’s “Singled Out” television show in the 1990s.  “The Backstreet Boys are an iconic band beloved by our
customers, and there’s a certain magic to how their reunion tour
coincided with our campaign for the Rockstar jeans,” DeMartini
said.  Gap, based in  San Francisco , has surged 92 percent this
year through yesterday as sales in the U.S. have advanced,
including a 4 percent increase for Old Navy, its most
affordable, family-friendly division.  The five-member Backstreet Boys, which rose to fame with
hit singles  such as  “I Want it That Way” and “Quit Playing
Games (With My Heart),” said recently they are reuniting with
the return of singer Kevin Richardson, with plans to release a
new album next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  