-- GE Probes Second Failure of Engine in U.S. NSTB Inquiry
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-09-13T22:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/ge-probes-second-failure-of-engine-involved-in-ntsb-787-inquiry.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is
investigating a second failure of its GEnx jet engine after a
 Boeing Co. (BA)  747-8 wide-body freighter flown by AirBridgeCargo
Airlines lost thrust during takeoff in Shanghai three days ago.  The GEnx-2B engine will be sent to the U.S. to be taken
apart “in a matter of days,” and all units in service are
being inspected, a spokesman,  Rick Kennedy , said yesterday in an
e-mail. Visual checks after the incident found damage to the
low-pressure turbine, with no breach of the casing, he said.  The failure is the second in less than two months involving
a GEnx power plant from GE, the world’s biggest maker of  jet
engines . U.S. safety officials are probing why a GEnx component
called the fan mid-shaft fractured and spewed hot metal parts
during a test run of a Boeing 787 Dreamliner on July 28.  “If this is another mid-shaft failure, it places the
engine and the airframes that are powered by it under a cloud,”
said  Robert Mann , a former American Airlines fleet manager who
is now an aviation consultant in  Port Washington , New York.
While a single part breakdown would be seen as a “one-off,” a
second on a different plane “would be a problem,” he said.  GE has finished its review of GEnx engines on the global
787 fleet, Kennedy said. About a dozen of Boeing’s four-engine
747-8 freighters remain to be checked, he said. The data are
being shared with the  National Transportation Safety Board  as
that agency investigates the Dreamliner case.  NTSB Role  “We are gathering information” about the Shanghai
incident, said Keith Holloway, an NTSB spokesman, who declined
to comment further. Bret Jensen, a Boeing spokesman, said the
company couldn’t discuss the case because of the NTSB inquiry.  Under international treaties, the NTSB would participate in
the Shanghai probe because the planemaker and engine
manufacturer are U.S. companies. Boeing is based in  Chicago , and
GE is based in Fairfield, Connecticut.  AirBridgeCargo, a unit of Russia’s Volga-Dnepr Group, is
the country’s largest cargo carrier and has a fleet of 12 747
jumbo jets. A call placed to the airline’s Moscow headquarters
before regular business hours today was answered and then
terminated.  The carrier received its first 747-8, the latest variant of
the iconic, humpbacked jumbo jet, in January and the second in
March. It has three more on order with options for another five
for a business that now consists mainly of flying cargo from
European cities through hubs in Sheremetyevo and Domodedovo.  AirBridgeCargo also offers service to China, Japan and
 South Korea , and began flights to Chicago last year.  GE’s Kennedy said the NTSB inquiry in the Dreamliner
incident has made significant progress. GE has introduced a new
coating process to the affected part of new engines, he said.  The company has delivered 10 GEnx-1B engines for the twin-
engine Dreamliner and 108 GEnx-2B engines for the 747-8. The
GEnx is the only engine option on the 747-8, while GE competes
with  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  for engines on the 787.  “GE continually monitors and analyzes the performance of
the GEnx fleet in service, and we are not aware of operational
issues that would affect the continued safe flight of aircraft
powered by these engines,” Kennedy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  