-- German Growth Forecast Cut by Institutes on Euro-Area Crisis
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-09-13T11:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/german-growth-forecast-cut-by-institutes-on-euro-area-crisis-1-.html
German economic institutes that
advise the government pared their outlooks for  Europe ’s biggest
economy, citing the impact of the euro-region debt crisis.  Growth will slow to 0.8 percent this year before rebounding
to 1.1 percent next year after 3 percent in 2011, the Kiel-based
Institute for the World Economy said. The Halle, eastern
Germany-based IWH institute, in a joint forecast with Kiel
Economics, predicted the expansion will cool to 0.9 percent this
year and 0.8 percent in 2013.  “The German economy can’t escape the damping impetus from
beyond its borders,” the Institute for the World Economy said
today in a report. A lack of confidence in governments’ ability
to solve the crisis is hurting corporate investment and the
outlook for foreign sales is bleak, it said.  German growth slowed in the second quarter and business
confidence has dropped for four straight months as the crisis
dents demand for German goods in other euro-area countries. The
expansion may accelerate in the third quarter before stalling in
the final three months, the IWH-led group said.  “In the autumn of 2012, the situation and the outlook for
the German economy present themselves much worse than half a
year ago,” the group said in an emailed statement. A crisis of
debt and confidence in the euro region “clouds sentiment and
expectations further.”  The IfW said in June the economy would expand 0.9 percent
in 2012 and 1.7 percent in 2013. The IWH-led group in April said
German gross domestic product will grow 0.9 percent this year
and 2 percent next year.  Even so,  Germany ’s overall fiscal position will be close to
balance this year and next after posting a deficit of 0.8
percent of GDP in 2011, all institutes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  