-- Germany Sees Enders Heading EADS-BAE as Jockeying Starts
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-09-13T13:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/germany-see-enders-heading-eads-bae-as-jockeying-starts-1-.html
Germany ’s  Tom Enders  should take
the helm of a merged  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD) 
with the U.K.’s  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , the economic-policy spokesman
for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s party said.  Enders, the EADS chief executive officer who previously ran
its Airbus SAS unit, “is the right man to lead or co-lead this
fusion,”  Michael Fuchs , a CDU deputy leader, said today in an
interview in Berlin. “I applaud him and his team.”  Jockeying for management influence underscores the
political dimension of the bid to form a pan-European group with
a market value of about $45 billion encompassing civil jets,
warplanes and nuclear submarines. Germany’s Deutsche Presse-
Agentur reported that the government has reservations about such
a merger, while  France  declined to comment and the U.K.
indicated it has yet to decide.  “We are working with the companies to ensure the public
interest is properly protected,” Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters in  London  today. “It’s a
commercial matter. They’ve been keeping us informed of their
discussions and will continue to do so.”  The potential combination “is being examined,” Merkel
told reporters in the eastern German town of Koethen. The German
Economy Ministry said earlier that the government had been asked
to support the deal and is studying “all relevant questions”
relating to the proposed merger.  EADS Ownership  EADS has moved to the French city of Toulouse, already the
home of Airbus. The French government owns 15 percent, German
carmaker Daimler AG controls 22.5 percent, of which 7.5 percent
is owned by German federal states and some banks, and the
Spanish government owns 5.4 percent. Decisions on the merger
will be taken in close consultation with France, the German
government said.  “It’s a strategic discussion,” French Industry Minister
 Arnaud Montebourg  said in an interview on France Inter radio,
declining to comment further.  “French and German influences seem to be safeguarded, but
politicians need time to gain an overview,” Fuchs said.
“What’s important is that Enders and top management of the
companies get the political backing now that they need.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  