-- Spanish Bonds Drop Amid Aid Request Concern; German Bunds Rise
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-09-13T15:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/german-10-year-yield-approaches-10-week-high-before-italian-sale.html
Spanish securities fell, led by
two-year notes, amid concern the government may hold off from
requesting financial assistance, damping optimism the  European
Central Bank  will buy the nation’s debt.  German 10-year bunds rose, pushing yields down from the
highest level in more than 10 weeks. Spanish notes also dropped
after  Fitch Ratings  said it may cut the autonomous community of
Catalonia’s rating to junk. Italian two-year debt pared a
decline as the nation sold three-year notes at the  lowest  rate
in almost two years. An ECB policy maker said the central bank
might not have to buy euro-area  government bonds  after rates
fell on the threat of unlimited purchases.  Recent gains in Spanish bonds were “in anticipation of ECB
buying,” said Jamie Searle, a fixed-income strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in  London . “You start to get an unwinding of
that flow if there’s any signs that  Spain  will take the view
that spreads have come in so they don’t have to do anything
more.”  Spain’s two-year yield climbed 13 basis points to 2.95
percent at 4:12 p.m. London time. That compares with a euro-era
 record  7.147 percent reached on July 25. The 4.75 percent note
due July 2014 fell 0.235, or 2.35 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,289)
face amount, to 103.21. The nation’s 10-year bond yield added
one basis point to 5.64 percent after sliding eight basis points
over the past two days.  Italian Auction  Italy ’s two-year yield added seven basis points to 2.26
percent after advancing to as much as 2.29 percent.  The Italian government sold 4 billion euros three-year
notes at an average yield of 2.75 percent, the  Bank of Italy 
said. That compares with a rate of 4.65 percent at a sale of the
securities on July 13. Investors bid for 1.49 times the amount
allotted, down from a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 1.73 in
July.  The nation also sold bonds due in 2017 and 2026. Ireland
auctioned three-month securities, its second bill sale since the
nation was bailed out.  German 10-year yields dropped six basis points to 1.56
percent after rising to 1.65 percent yesterday, the highest
since June 29.  The yield was below its 200-day  moving average , currently
1.641 percent, after yesterday climbing above it for the first
time since July 8, 2011.  ECB Program  Spanish leaders said yesterday they can delay a decision on
seeking a bailout as borrowing costs decline, with their focus
on ensuring any rescue doesn’t roil markets. Spain’s 10-year
yields have fallen about 80 basis points since ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said on Sept. 6 the bank could buy cash-strapped
nations’ debt if they seek help from the region’s government-run
rescue mechanism first.  “A central bank has this wonderful ability that no other
player in the market has when it says ‘I’m going to do whatever
it takes,’ and everyone believes that,” ECB Governing Council
member Panicos Demetriades, who heads the Central Bank of
Cyprus, said in an interview in Nicosia yesterday. “In the end,
they may do nothing.”  Spain’s Treasury said today it will sell 2 billion euros of
bonds in a private placement to finance part of the 18-billion
euro regional bailout fund.  Volatility on Irish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by the Netherlands and Finland,
according to measures of 10-year or equivalent-maturity debt,
the spread between two-year and 10-year securities and credit-
default swaps.  Dutch Elections  Dutch securities advanced after voters rejected the anti-
euro  Freedom Party  in elections yesterday.  The additional yield, or  spread , investors demand to hold
Dutch 10-year bonds over similar-maturity bunds fell for a third
day after the nation’s  Liberal Party  beat the  Labor Party  in
yesterday’s parliamentary elections. The spread narrowed to as
little as 24 basis points, the lowest since Jan. 17.  “There was a real danger before the elections that this
thing was going to swing in the direction of the extremes,”
said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-markets debt at ING Bank
NV in Amsterdam. “There’s been a centrist victory. It’s been
positive for Dutch government bonds.”  Garvey spoke in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse” with Elliot Gotkine.  The yield on  Greece ’s bond due February 2023 fell for a
third day even after Dow Jones reported the nation will need
another bailout. The rate dropped two basis points to 20.70
percent, after earlier jumping as much as 161 basis points.  “Greece will require additional financing, which may take
the form either of Official Sector Involvement or of additional
loans, hopefully on more favorable terms,” Thanos Catsambas, an
alternate  executive director  at the  International Monetary Fund ,
told the newswire in an interview.  German bonds returned 2.1 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities advanced 1.9 percent, while Italy’s debt made 15
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  