-- Goldman Sachs Stops Giving Two-Year Contracts to Junior Bankers
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-09-13T21:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/goldman-sachs-stops-giving-two-year-contracts-to-junior-bankers.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has
stopped offering two-year contracts to its most junior
investment bankers, typically new college graduates, ending a
quarter-century practice, a company spokesman said.  Analyst-level recruits at Goldman Sachs’s investment
banking and investment management divisions for 2013 aren’t
receiving the contracts, which typically ended with either a job
offer at the firm or a move to graduate school or another
company, said  David Wells , a spokesman in  New York .  “We will continue to provide the skills and time needed to
understand our hiring and developing the careers of analysts in
our banking and investment management divisions,” Wells said.
“Making this change allows us to emphasize the longer-term
career opportunities available at the firm.”  Two-year contracts will continue to be used for analyst-
level employees in the sales and trading and research divisions,
Wells said. He declined to say how many people are employed in
the analyst programs. The Wall Street Journal reported the
recruitment policy change earlier today.  Wall Street firms have been seeking ways to reduce employee
costs, even at the most junior levels. The practice of providing
junior bankers with automatic annual pay increases came under
review at firms including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Goldman
Sachs earlier this year, people familiar with the deliberations
said in January.  Cutting Costs  Goldman Sachs, the most profitable securities firm in Wall
Street history before converting to a bank in 2008, employed
32,300 people at the end of June, down 9 percent from a year
earlier, and said in July it planned to cut more costs.  David A. Viniar, Goldman Sachs’s chief financial officer,
said on a July 17 conference call with investors that the firm
expected to reduce “people-related” expenses by about $500
million by shifting to a “more junior and less senior weighted
head count going forward.”  Goldman Sachs fired some analysts last year for accepting
jobs outside the firm before they were allowed to seek other
employment, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  