-- Gold CEOs Predict New Highs Within One Year on Economy
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-09-13T19:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/gold-ceos-predict-new-highs-within-one-year-on-economy.html
Gold prices  are poised to reach new
highs in the next year amid global economic uncertainty and a
lack of new supply, the biggest producers said.  Gold may exceed $2,000 an ounce within 12 months,  Barrick
Gold Corp. (ABX)  Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky and Chuck Jeannes, CEO of  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , said this week in interviews in
Denver, where they were attending the Denver Gold Forum. A gold
price of $2,000 is “not unreasonable,”  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) 
CEO  Richard O’Brien  said in a presentation at the conference.  “The fundamentals that are backstopping a higher gold
price are there,” Sokalsky, who heads the world’s largest
producer, said Sept. 10. “I’m optimistic that, with the
uncertainty throughout the world and the macroeconomic
environment and some of the fundamental supply and demand
aspects of gold, that we could see new highs on the gold
price.”  Gold has risen for 11 straight years, reaching a record
$1,923.70 an ounce on Sept. 6, 2011 in New York, as investors
bought the metal as a store of value and hedge against
inflation.  Gold futures for December delivery climbed 2.2 percent to
settle at $1,772.10 today on the Comex, the first time above
$1,770 since February, after the  Federal Reserve  announced a
third round of quantitative easing to boost the  U.S. economy  and
reduce unemployment.  ‘Debasement of Currencies’  “The demand side is all about worldwide debasement of
currencies and gold being seen as an alternative,” Jeannes,
head of the second-largest producer by market value, said Sept.
10. “We see it with central banks buying gold and we see it
with investors buying gold to protect themselves from the
exposure to currencies that they don’t have confidence in.”  Central banks will increase gold purchases by 7.9 percent
to 493 metric tons this year as they keep expanding reserves to
diversify from the dollar and guard against a potential gain in
inflation, Thomson Reuters GFMS, a London-based researcher, said
in a Sept. 4 report.  Gold prices have risen as investors buy the metal because
of economic uncertainty and in anticipation of more stimulus
from the U.S. Federal Reserve, as well as in Europe, said
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ’s  Mark Cutifani , CEO of the world’s
third-largest gold producer.  ‘Pretty Strong’  “Investment demand has been pretty strong,” he said in a
Sept. 11 interview in Denver. “I could easily see it going
through $1,800 by Christmas.”  It’s becoming more accepted that gold “has a role to
play,”  Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. (AEM)  CEO Sean Boyd said in a Sept. 11
interview.  “Not the gold standard, but as equivalent collateral to a
treasury bond, as possibly collateral on maybe sovereign debt
issuances, is starting to be discussed,” Boyd said. “That
wouldn’t have happened five years ago.”  A lack of new supply will also support prices, Goldcorp’s
Jeannes said. Producers including Barrick and Toronto-based
 Kinross Gold Corp. (K)  have said they will be more disciplined in
spending on projects and will target higher returns rather than
production growth.  Gold mine supply will probably be “flat and eventually
declining,” Jeannes said. Companies that were trying to build
large, low-return projects as a play on future gold price
increases are not getting support from investors, he said.  “The market is not letting them do that, they are not
giving them the money to do it,” Jeannes said. “So we are
limited to high quality, high return projects that don’t require
a higher gold price to succeed, and that’s limiting supply.  The Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold & Silver  Index (XAU) , which
is made up of 30 gold producers, has declined 15 percent in the
past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  