-- Illinois Foreclosures Surging Lure Investors: Mortgages
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-09-13T12:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/illinois-foreclosures-surging-lure-investors-mortgages.html
Illinois  soared to the highest
 foreclosure rate  in the U.S. last month as job losses mounted,
luring investors like Waypoint Real Estate Group LLC that
scoured the state for homes priced at half of peak values.  A total of 17,781 Illinois properties received a filing of
default, auction or repossession in August, up 42 percent from a
year earlier and the eighth straight monthly increase on an
annual basis, according to data seller RealtyTrac Inc. The rate
of foreclosure filings per household in the state was one in
every 298, vaulting Illinois to the nation’s top spot for the
first time in company records dating to January 2005.  “More Illinois homeowners are entering the foreclosure
process, and more are losing their homes,”  Daren Blomquist ,
vice president at  Irvine , California-based RealtyTrac, said in a
phone interview. “It’s going to get worse before it gets
better.”  Illinois is missing out as the  U.S. housing  market recovers
from a six-year slump -- attracting private-equity firms that are
seeking to capitalize on a need for rental housing. While
foreclosures across the country are slowing, with filings
increasing 1 percent in August from the previous month, they
climbed 29 percent in Illinois. The national foreclosure rate
was one in 681 households, less than half the rate in Illinois.  Job Losses  Its property woes have been compounded by Illinois
 unemployment  rate, which rose to 8.9 percent in July from 8.7
percent the month before, because of a shrinking manufacturing
base and public-sector job losses, said Bob Tomarelli, U.S.
economist at forecasting firm IHS Global Insight Inc.  Foreclosure filings in Illinois probably will increase each
month in 2012 and break the record set in October 2009 as
lenders release a backlog of repossessed properties, Blomquist
said. The unsold distressed inventory will in turn depress home
values as buyers hold off on purchases until foreclosures 
hit the market, said Geoff Smith, director of DePaul
University’s Institute for Housing Studies in  Chicago .  Residential property values in the Chicago area have
declined every month on a year-over-year basis since May 2007,
according to the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price  index . Chicago
prices showed a decline of 1.7 percent in June from a year
earlier to 113.61, where the index was 11 years ago.  “Properties in the pipeline create uncertainty in the
market and negatively affect buyer confidence,” Smith said in a
telephone interview. “It’s preventing a floor from stabilizing
prices in the Chicago region.”  Slow Process  States such as Illinois,  Florida ,  New York  and  New Jersey 
that use courts to oversee the foreclosure process tend to have
lengthier dispositions of repossessed homes, and are lagging
behind the housing recovery, according to Blomquist. It takes
647 days in Illinois for a bank to complete a home seizure,
compared with a national average of 378 days, RealtyTrac said.  Funds operating in Illinois include New York-based GTIS
Partners, which owns land for homebuilding and isn’t focused on
foreclosures, Chairman Tom Shapiro wrote in an e-mail.
Carrington Mortgage Holdings LLC believes it can also profit
from the rental market, according to executive vice president
 Rick Sharga .  “We think Illinois is a very viable market for rental
opportunities over the next few years, with a good chance at
home-price appreciation in the longer term,” Sharga, based in
 Santa Ana ,  California , said in an e-mail.  Waypoint Real Estate began acquiring steeply discounted
Chicago foreclosures two months ago after amassing about 2,000
distressed homes in California since January, 2009,Gary Beasley, managing director, said in a telephone interview.
Waypoint has also been buying foreclosures in  Arizona  since
April, and generally acquires properties that have lost half
their value, he said.  Current Returns  Current returns of as much as 8 percent follow “thorough
renovations” of foreclosure homes in neighborhoods with low
crime rates and “solid working-class communities,” Beasley
said. Investors include  Menlo Park , California-based private
equity firm GI Partners LLC, on behalf of the California Public
Employees Retirement System, and  Columbia University ’s
endowment. Waypoint expects a total return of as much as                      20
percent over a seven-year period.  “We’re bullish on Chicago and would like to buy 75 to 100
homes a month,” said Beasley, based in Oakland, California.
“We look at houses down 50 percent to 60 percent, generally in
suburbs where a rental yield is easier to maintain.”  Waypoint is still investing $200 million in equity for its
rental housing fund, and its current holdings in three states
are valued at $350 million, including properties in Antioch and
Vallejo, California. Beasley declined to name specific Illinois
towns where Waypoint has invested.  Sun Belt  Illinois doesn’t appeal to international and retired buyers
like Sun Belt states Florida and Arizona, and so may suffer a
longer housing recovery, according to  Stan Humphries , chief
economist of Seattle-based services firm Zillow.com. Employment
in Illinois is down by 294,000 from a peak 5.99 million in 2008,
and won’t return to that level until late 2016, Tomarelli said.  “There are many more buyers interested in Florida housing
stock and the climate there,” said RealtyTrac’s Blomquist.  Foreclosures in the Chicago area sold in the second quarter
for an average discount of 46 percent compared with non-
foreclosure properties, greater than the 32 percent U.S.
discount, according to RealtyTrac. Chicago foreclosures cost
$131,562 on average, third lowest among the top 20 cities, with
the national average at $170,040, the company said.  On the south side of Chicago, neighborhoods such as West
Englewood have properties that sell for less than $20,000, all
cash. Those deals accounted for a fifth of all distressed sales
last year, crimping overall Chicago values, said Smith of the
DePaul housing institute.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  