-- Income Gap Shows Need for Better Education, Diamond, Chao Say
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2012-09-13T18:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/income-gap-shows-need-for-better-education-diamond-chao-say.html
The widening  income gap  in the U.S.
and the struggles of middle-income Americans would be best
addressed by bolstering the education system, Nobel prize-
winning economist  Peter Diamond  said.  “What we need to do is increase the quality of education,
that has to start with preschool all the way up,” Diamond,
professor emeritus at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
said at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in New York today.  Elaine Chao, labor secretary in President  George W. Bush ’s
administration, said the country must put greater emphasis on
job training in the private sector as well as on “relevant”
and “dynamic” government job-training programs.  She agreed with Diamond that high-quality education,
especially in kindergarten through high school, is
“extraordinarily important” for U.S. economic competitiveness.  Both were responding to a Census Bureau report yesterday
that showed the income gap between rich and poor Americans grew
to the widest in more than 40 years in 2011 as the  poverty rate 
remained at almost a two-decade high. Median  household income 
fell 1.5 percent last year to $50,054 -- the lowest level since
1995 when adjusted for inflation.  On the issue of  job creation , Diamond said the country
needs to invest in neglected infrastructure.  “Infrastructure matters for how well the economy runs,”
he said. “We should be investing in infrastructure, because we
need it.”  Hiring Teachers  Maury Harris , chief economist for UBS Securities LLC, said
government can address the challenges by rehiring teachers
before spending on infrastructure. He also said permanent tax
cuts for middle-income people would boost demand.  Chao said small businesses are holding off on hiring
because of uncertainty over more taxes, the federal deficit and
regulations.  “There’s an anxiety there,” she said. “There are all
these burdens on the employers in terms of creating jobs.”  Chao also said she expects that lawmakers in Washington
will come to an agreement on averting the so-called fiscal cliff
of year-end expiring tax cuts and spending reductions slated to
start in January.  “It will be handled,” she said.  A status-quo election in November in which President  Barack Obama  keeps office would more likely lead to a longer-term
solution in Congress this year, she said.  If Obama loses, “you are going to see very dispirited
Democrats who probably will not want to tackle this very large
problem,” she said. Congress will do something short term and
“throw the bulk of the burden” into next year, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in New York at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  