-- India Potential Dims as Skidding Investment Tests Singh: Economy
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-09-13T08:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/india-potential-dims-as-skidding-investment-tests-singh-economy.html
India’s growth outlook is waning as
the longest fall in capital-goods output since 2009 signals
weaker investment, adding pressure on Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  to salvage his development agenda.  Capital-goods production , a gauge of corporate expenditure
on factories and machinery, slid in July for a fifth straight
month, the longest stretch since declines over most of 2009, a
report showed yesterday. India’s economic growth potential may
have fallen to 6 percent to 6.5 percent a year, below the
Reserve Bank of India’s 7.5 percent estimate, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. said.  Singh’s attempts to implement policies to revive investment
have been derailed by his fractious ruling coalition and graft
allegations that paralyzed Parliament. Inflation near 7 percent
has limited room for interest-rate cuts to fight a slowdown in
Indian growth that contrasts with the more resilient performance
of Southeast Asian nations from  Indonesia  to the Philippines.  “India is seeing much slower growth and still persistently
high inflation,” said  Aninda Mitra , an economist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Singapore . “Southeast Asia is
now growing as fast, or faster, than what India can expect to
accomplish this fiscal year and next. That’s resulted in
revaluation of where growth centers are.”  Indian  gross domestic product  rose 5.5 percent in the three
months through June from a year earlier, holding near a three-
year low of 5.3 percent in the previous quarter. Indonesia’s GDP
climbed 6.4 percent in the same period, while the Philippines
grew 5.9 percent.  Asia Rates  The trend growth rates of Indonesia and its neighbors are
rising as governments boost spending and companies invest to tap
younger workforces, providing a buffer against the impact of
 Europe ’s debt crisis on the global economy.  Bank Indonesia  held its  reference rate  at 5.75 percent
today. The Philippines kept its benchmark at 3.75 percent, while
 South Korea  unexpectedly held borrowing costs at 3 percent.  New Zealand  left the official cash rate at 2.5 percent and
the central bank signaled an 18-month pause in record-low
 interest rates  may last through mid-2013 to help bolster an
economy buffeted by weaker global growth and strained by one of
the developed world’s strongest currencies.  Asian stocks were little changed today after rising a fifth
day yesterday. The dollar dropped versus the yen amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will announce it will buy bonds
under a program of quantitative easing that tends to debase the
currency.  Indian Output  The Fed will probably announce a third round of large-scale
asset purchases today, according to almost two-thirds of
economists in a Bloomberg survey, and may also extend the
duration of its zero-interest-rate policy into 2015. In Europe,
 Russia  decides on interest rates.  Indian  industrial production  almost stagnated in July,
climbing 0.1 percent from a year earlier, while capital-goods
output shrank 5 percent, yesterday’s data from the  Central
Statistical Office  showed.  The rupee weakened 0.4 percent to 55.455 per dollar as of
12:52 p.m. in Mumbai. It has slumped about 14 percent in the
past 12 months. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 0.1 percent.
The yield on the 8.15 percent government bond due June 2022
declined to 8.19 percent from 8.20 percent yesterday.  The currency’s drop has made imports including oil more
expensive, adding to price pressures from supply bottlenecks and
rising food costs as a below-average monsoon crimps farm output.  Fiscal Deficit  Inflation probably  accelerated  to 7.1 percent in August,
holding above the Reserve Bank of India’s comfort level of about
5 percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey ahead of a report due tomorrow.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao is scheduled to announce his next
rate decision on Sept. 17, with all 27 economists in another
Bloomberg survey predicting he will leave the benchmark
repurchase rate at 8 percent for a third meeting to damp prices.  While Subbarao has indicated the government needs to curb
spending to damp inflation risks, Singh is struggling to contain
a subsidy program ranging from diesel to fertilizers. The
 Reserve Bank  has said the administration’s goal of narrowing the
 budget deficit  to 5.1 percent of GDP in the fiscal year through
March 2013 is in jeopardy.  Among other setbacks, India has foregone higher investment
in industries from retailing to aviation in recent months
because of policy logjams in the ruling coalition.  Foreign
direct investment  fell 67 percent to $4.43 billion in the three
months ended June from a year earlier, government data show.  ‘Policy Reform’  “Domestic demand, especially investment demand, is
suffering both due to global economic uncertainty and,
importantly, lack of structural policy reform,” Leif Eskesen,
an economist for India and Southeast Asia at HSBC Holdings Plc
in Singapore, said in a report. Progress may remain slow due to
political constraints from upcoming state elections, he said.  The budget shortfall and a deficit in the current account,
the broadest measure of trade, led Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings to say earlier this year that they may strip India of
its investment-grade  credit rating .  Subdued expansion has affected companies such as motorcycle
manufacturers, with sales in an industry that includes  Hero
Motocorp Ltd. (HMCL)  and  Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT)  down 4.5 percent last month,
the first fall since January 2009, according to the  Society of
Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  India’s potential rate of economic expansion may have
fallen to 7.5 percent, Subbarao said in July. That compares with
an 8.5 percent estimate before the onset of the global financial
crisis, he said. Morgan Stanley said this week GDP may climb as
little as 4.3 percent this fiscal year if government inaction
continues.  “Increasing India’s potential growth rate will need
corporate India to start reinvesting, particularly in
equipment,” Jahangir Aziz, an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in  Washington , said in a  note . “Policy makers at home will need
to reduce macroeconomic and regulatory uncertainly, resolve
implementation bottlenecks that currently exist, and push
through with key structural reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  