-- India Opens Aviation Industry to Overseas Investors
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-09-15T08:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/india-increases-diesel-prices-after-a-year-to-cut-subsidy-bill.html
India  threw open its retail and
aviation industries to foreign investment as a newly assertive
government bids to shake off a sense of crisis over the slowing
economy and a stalled agenda, risking a political backlash.  In the biggest policy push of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s second term, proposals to allow overseas retailers like
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA (CA)  to own 51 percent of
supermarket chains, shelved last year after alliance partners
threatened to revolt, have been enforced, Commerce Minister
 Anand Sharma  said yesterday. Overseas airlines are allowed to
own 49 percent of Indian carriers, he said.  The measures “will help change the perception about the
government that it doesn’t have the ability to take decisions,”
said Samiran Chakraborty, a Mumbai-based economist at Standard
Chartered Plc. “If this changes the perception that investors
have about India, this could be positive for inflows, equities
and for the currency.”  Singh and his ruling Congress party have just 18 months to
reverse shrinking support and restore confidence in their
economic management before the next general election. The
changes in ownership rules don’t require approval by parliament.  Together with a Sept. 13 deficit-reducing 14 percent
increase in diesel prices, the decisions announced by Sharma in
New Delhi mark a sustained effort to ease criticism of Singh’s
administration. The government has been assailed by two years of
corruption allegations, while its agenda has been stymied by
opposition parties and coalition allies alike.  Olive Branch  Offering an  olive branch  to regional leaders who have said
they’ll oppose the arrival of large overseas retail chains over
concerns they will put millions of small shopkeepers out of work,
Sharma said it will be up to state governments to decide if they
want to adopt the policy. Indian airlines, which have delayed
salaries and defaulted on payments to airports and fuel
suppliers because of cash shortages, will now be free to seek
foreign investors.  “These steps will help strengthen our growth process and
generate employment in these difficult times,” Singh said in
comments posted by his office on his Twitter Inc. account.  India’s growth target was lowered to 8.2 percent for the
12th five-year plan started Apr. 1 from an earlier estimate of 9
percent given the state of the global economy, Singh said today
while addressing the Planning Commission.  Growth could easily slow to 5 percent annually if the worst
case scenario of a policy logjam persists, he said.  Deadline to Reverse  The higher fuel prices brought calls for a rollback from
Singh’s allies, pressure he has in the past responded to by
lowering the size of the increases. He may face even stiffer
opposition to the biggest change to foreign investment caps
since the government was re-elected in 2009.  Allies such as  Mamata Banerjee , the chief minister of West
Bengal state, have said they will continue to oppose moves to
allow overseas companies Wal-Mart and others into the country.
Banerjee’s party yesterday gave the government 72 hours to
reverse the policy changes,  Press Trust of India  reported.  “There seems to be agreement among policy makers that
growth is taking a huge hit,” N.R. Bhanumurthy, an economist at
the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy in  New Delhi ,
said yesterday before the foreign investment announcement. “If
you don’t take policy measures you’re not going to be able to
control the slide.”  Stocks Climb  Indian stocks climbed to their highest level in 14 months
after the diesel-price increase and before the foreign
investment decisions, boosted by the U.S. Federal Reserve
announcement of a third round of stimulus measures.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 2.5 percent
yesterday to 18,464.27, its highest close since July 26, 2011.
The rupee gained the most since June on expectations the fuel
move would help achieve the government’s deficit-narrowing
target.  The American depositary receipts of  ICICI Bank Ltd. (IBN)  jumped
5 percent in New York yesterday, while  Sterlite Industries Ltd. (SLT) 
climbed 7.7 percent to $7.68, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Singh’s bid to implement policies to revive investment amid
a rating agencies downgrade threat have been derailed by his
fractious ruling coalition and graft allegations that paralyzed
parliament during its last session. Inflation near 7 percent has
limited room for interest-rate cuts in an economy growing at
near its slowest pace in three years.  ‘Rare Victory’  In the latest sign of the frustration felt by voters toward
Congress, only 38 percent of Indians said they were satisfied
with the country’s direction, according to a Pew Research Center
survey. That was down from 51 percent a year earlier, and was
the largest drop among the 17 countries in the survey, including
China, the U.S. and Brazil.  Estimated major subsidies in the current fiscal year will
amount to 2.4 percent of GDP, Finance Minister P. Chidambaram
said today. That misses the goal of less than 2 percent set out
in the March budget. The decline to 1.2 percent by 2016-2017
projected in the five-year plan may be “over-optimistic,” he
said. Chidambaram also called for measures to accelerate the
implementation of infrastructure projects.  The diesel price increase “comes as a rare victory for the
Prime Minister and Chidambaram against the ingrained populism”
of the ruling alliance,  David Sloan , an analyst at New York-
based Eurasia Group, said in an e-mailed analysis yesterday.
“The price hike lends sorely needed credibility to their
unfulfilled pledges to bolster the economy while working towards
fiscal consolidation.”  Slowing Growth  Sloan and other analysts caution that proposals requiring
parliamentary approval, such as raising the foreign investment
cap in insurance from 26 percent to 49 percent “remain
political non-starters” as Singh’s Congress party-led bloc has
been unable to end a standoff with the opposition over alleged
losses to the exchequer from an award of coal resources.  Amid the political gridlock, India’s economic growth
potential may have fallen to 6 percent to 6.5 percent a year,
below the  Reserve Bank of India ’s 7.5 percent estimate,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  said. Foreign direct investment fell 67 percent to
$4.43 billion in the three months ended June from a year earlier,
government data show.  India’s benchmark  wholesale-price index , which has remained
above the central bank’s 5 percent comfort level since December
2009, accelerated to 7.55 percent in August, data released
yesterday showed. The increase exceeded all 35 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will leave
 interest rates  at 8 percent for a third meeting next week, 32 of
35 economists said in another Bloomberg survey, as the diesel
price rise fans costs.  Deficit Target  Singh, the architect of India’s 1990s economic opening who
has been prime minister since 2004, is targeting a  budget
deficit  of 5.1 percent of gross domestic product in the year
ending March from 5.8 percent a year earlier. Asia’s third-
largest economy grew 5.5 percent in the three months ended June
30 after expanding 5.3 percent in the previous quarter, the
least in three years.  The budget shortfall and a deficit in the current account,
the broadest measure of trade, led Standard & Poor’s and  Fitch
Ratings  to say earlier this year that they may strip India of
its investment-grade  credit rating .  Rating Outlook  S&P on April 25 lowered the outlook on India’s sovereign
credit rating to negative from stable, saying the move reflects
a one-in-three likelihood of a ratings downgrade to junk status
because of slower investment and economic growth. Fitch Ratings
cut its outlook on June 18, citing limited progress in paring
the budget deficit. Both companies rank India’s debt BBB-, the
lowest investment grade.  India has been planning the policy change for its airlines
for more than three years as  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) ,
controlled by billionaire Vijay Mallya, and state-owned  Air
India Ltd. (BHARTI)  delayed salaries and defaulted on payments to
airports and fuel suppliers because of cash shortage.  Jet Airways, India’s biggest carrier, has also been
planning to raise funds through a rights offer for more than two
years. The carrier and Kingfisher plunged more than 65 percent
in 2011. Jet said last month that it plans to sell and lease
back some planes to pare debt by about $400 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  