-- Indonesia Holds Key Rate as Asia Monetary Easing Subsides
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-09-13T11:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/indonesia-holds-interest-rate-as-asian-monetary-easing-subsides.html
Indonesia kept its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged for a seventh straight meeting as
accelerating economic growth and inflation reduced the scope for
monetary easing to counter an export slump.  Bank Indonesia  Governor Darmin Nasution and his board held
the  reference  rate at a record-low 5.75 percent, the central
bank said in a statement in Jakarta today. The decision was
predicted by all 22 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Indonesia joins  South Korea  and  Malaysia  in preserving
firepower this month as the  European Central Bank  backs
unlimited purchases of government debt to resolve the region’s
crisis and economists predict the U.S. will announce a third
round of quantitative easing. A declining rupiah and rising food
costs are adding to price pressures in  Southeast Asia ’s largest
economy, where growth has exceeded 6 percent since 2010.  “It isn’t useful to adjust monetary policy in these
current conditions as markets are still waiting for quantitative
easing in the U.S. or stimulus in  China ,” said Branko Windoe,
head of treasury at PT Bank Central Asia in Jakarta. “Inflation
remains manageable and the economy robust; there’s no pressure
for the central bank to adjust its  reference rate  this month.”  The rupiah pared its loss to 0.2 percent, trading at 9,587
rupiah per dollar as of 4:14 p.m. in Jakarta after reaching the
lowest level since May 31 earlier, according to prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg. It has dropped more than 5
percent this year, the worst performer among 11 Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Korea Pauses  The policy rate is still consistent with Indonesia’s low
and manageable inflationary pressure, the central bank said
today. The monetary authority will strengthen coordination with
the government to manage domestic demand and improve the
current-account position in line with efforts to maintain
macroeconomic stability and sustainable growth, it said.  Bank Indonesia said the current-account deficit may narrow
in the third quarter even as pressure persists from the
worsening global economy. The central bank will evaluate the
impact of policies that have been taken and will implement
further measures if needed, it said.  The  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly held borrowing costs today,
while  New Zealand  signaled an 18-month pause in record-low
interest rates may last through mid-2013 to help bolster an
economy buffeted by weaker global growth. Malaysia and  Thailand 
left their key rates unchanged last week, and the Philippine
central bank did the same today.  Weak Demand  “In contrast to most of the rest of the region where we
are expecting further rate cuts by the end of the year, monetary
policy in Indonesia is likely to remain on hold until end-
2012,” said Gareth Leather, an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in  London . “Although weak global demand will take some of
the steam out of the economy, as one of the region’s least
trade-dependent economies  Indonesia  is relatively well-placed to
withstand the impact of a global downturn.”  Inflation is likely to accelerate “sharply” in the coming
months due to rebounding food prices, strong credit growth,
buoyant domestic demand and loose monetary policy, he said in a
note. The worsening current account and weak rupiah are also
reasons for a rate increase, he said.  Indonesia’s gross domestic product rose 6.37 percent in the
three months through June from a year earlier, after climbing
6.32 percent in the first quarter. The country’s growth is among
the fastest in the Group of 20 nations, as President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono boosts investment more than a decade after the
Asian financial crisis that forced the nation to seek an
International Monetary Fund bailout.  Growth Target  The economy is performing in line with its capacity, and
growth in the second quarter was supported by consumption and
investment, the central bank said. Exports may improve as some
major trading partners recover amid the risk of a global
economic slowdown, it said. Bank lending rose 25.2 percent in
July from a year earlier.  Yudhoyono has pledged to build more roads, ports and
airports to achieve average growth of 6.6 percent by the end of
2014. In July, the central bank lowered its GDP growth forecast
to about 6.1 percent to 6.5 percent this year, from a previous
estimate of as much as 6.7 percent. Indonesia’s expansion may be
about 6.3 percent to 6.7 percent in 2013, it said.  Inflation unexpectedly accelerated in August on rising food
costs, as consumer prices rose 4.58 percent from a year earlier.
The central bank has an inflation target of 3.5 percent to 5.5
percent in 2012 and 2013. The pressure on  core inflation  should
be temporary, it said today.  Foreign Investment  Bank Indonesia is trying to narrow a current-account
deficit that reached $6.9 billion in the three months through
June, from a $3.2 billion shortfall the previous quarter.  Indonesia’s balance of payment will probably improve in the
third quarter, the central bank said, citing a better  trade
balance  in July. The current-account deficit can be offset by an
increasing surplus in the financial and capital account driven
mainly by foreign direct investments, it said.  The central bank has also intervened repeatedly to support
the rupiah this year as the faltering global economy prompted
investors to reduce holdings of emerging-market assets. The
nation’s foreign-exchange reserves dropped to $109 billion at
the end of August from a record-high of $124.6 billion on Aug.
31, 2011, central bank data show.  Deposit Rate  While policy makers have left the benchmark rate unchanged
since a cut in February, the central bank has raised the lower
end of its interest-rate corridor, known as the deposit facility
rate. It increased the rate it pays on interbank deposits to 4
percent last month from 3.75 percent.  “What will matter increasingly for the markets is what
happens to short-term rates and the deposit facility rate,”
said  Aninda Mitra , an economist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. who is based in  Singapore . “We have been
calling for some time now for much less foreign-exchange
intervention, to preserve foreign reserves, and higher short-
term rates which are more realistically aligned with the Bank
Indonesia reference rate.”  Pressure on the rupiah has come from the fragile global
economic recovery and instability in financial markets, as well
as declining exports amid strong imports, Bank Indonesia said.
The central bank will closely monitor the foreign exchange
market to keep the rupiah in line with its fundamentals, it said.  The central bank will “continue to attain external
balance” gradually, and focus on inflation management,
strengthening its policy mix and efforts to manage domestic
demand, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  