-- Hindustan Zinc, Ambuja Ordered to Pay Clean-Energy Fines
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-09-13T12:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/hindustan-zinc-ambuja-ordered-to-pay-clean-energy-fines.html
An Indian court ordered companies
including units of billionaire Anil Agarwal’s  Vedanta Resources
Plc (VED)  and  Switzerland ’s  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  to pay penalties for failing
to meet clean-energy obligations at power plants they operate.  Two judges of Rajasthan  High Court ’s Jaipur bench dismissed
an appeal by  Hindustan Zinc Ltd. (HZ) , Ambuja Cements Ltd.,  Grasim
Industries Ltd. (GRASIM)  and 14 other companies that challenged a
government order to purchase a minimum amount of renewable
energy at their plants, according to the Aug. 31  judgment  on the
court website.  Holcim’s Ambuja said in an e-mail that it’s studying the
order’s implications. Vedanta’s Hindustan Zinc and Grasim didn’t
respond to e-mails and phone calls seeking comment. Vedanta fell
as much as 3.6 percent in London and Holcim lost as much as 1.1
percent in Zurich, its biggest decline since Sept. 4.  India  requires electricity distributors and large
industrial consumers of power, such as cement factories, miners
and steelmakers, to buy as much as 10 percent of their energy
from wind farms, biomass plants and other renewable utilities.
State regulators are responsible for enforcing the targets.  “This is important because it will act as a precedent for
similar court cases in other states” like Gujarat and  Tamil
Nadu , said Vibhav Nuwal, director of REConnect Energy Solutions
Pvt., which advises companies in the industry. Such enforcement
is key to ensuring the success of India’s one-year-old renewable
energy trading market, which allows companies to buy and sell
certificates to meet their clean-power obligations.  Potential Penalties  Hindustan Zinc and Ambuja may be liable to pay as much as
913 million rupees ($16.5 million) based on an estimate by
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, whose calculations assume the
companies face the same renewable purchase obligations in all
states where they operate.  Hindustan Zinc’s liability could be about 839 million
rupees and Ambuja’s 75 million rupees based on power generation
and consumption figures from their latest annual reports and
penalty amounts of 3,300 rupees and 13,400 rupees a megawatt-
hour set by regulators for non-solar and solar certificates
respectively.  Hindustan Zinc fell 1.1 percent to 130.95 rupees at the
close in Mumbai. Ambuja lost 0.2 percent to 191.35 rupees and
Grasim rose 0.8 percent to 3,035.95 rupees. The benchmark
Sensitive Index gained 0.1 percent.  Chronic Blackouts  India suffers from an average  9 percent power deficit  and
an overburdened grid that lead to chronic blackouts and surging
electricity prices at peak hours of demand. Companies like
Hindustan Zinc and Ambuja build coal and diesel-fired generation
units, known as captive  power plants , which provide reliable
electricity to their sites and extra revenue from selling excess
power to the grid.  According to the judgment, the companies argued that the
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission was acting beyond
its powers and that its order for them to buy clean power or
face fines was a violation of India’s 2003 Electricity Act and
of the constitution. The companies said that as independent
power plants without distribution licenses, they should be
exempt from the targets.  “The submission is baseless,” judges Arun Mishra and
Narendra Kumar Jain said in their ruling. The companies
misconstrued legal provisions to argue their case, they said.  The renewable targets are lawful and the state regulator
has the authority to enforce them, the judges said.  “The writ petitions being devoid of merits are hereby
dismissed,” they said, ordering the companies to pay their
fines immediately.  The case is  Ambuja Cements Ltd. (ACEM)  v. Raj Electricity
Regulatory Commission. 2772/2012. High Court of Judicature for
Rajasthan at Jaipur Bench (Jaipur.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  