-- Minority Vendors Say Awards Program at Risk on U.S. Court Ruling
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-09-13T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/minority-vendors-say-awards-program-at-risk-on-u-s-court-ruling.html
Minority vendors and contracting
attorneys say a federal court ruling may damage a government
program designed to boost disadvantaged businesses.  A U.S. judge in  Washington  ruled on Aug. 15 that the
Defense Department can’t favor such companies for work on
military simulators, which replicate what it’s like to fly a
fighter jet or sail a ship.  The potential significance of the narrow decision at first
escaped the notice of some contractors in the government’s so-
called 8(a) program for disadvantaged firms, said David
Stephens, chief executive officer of Katmai Government Services
LLC, a minority vendor that has a contract at risk. Participants
now say the ruling may have a broader effect on federal awards
to minority-owned small businesses, already bracing for looming
budget cuts designed to reduce the U.S. deficit.  “It is potentially the death knell of the 8(a) program,”
Stephens said in an e-mail. His Anchorage, Alaska-based company,
which makes technology used in simulators, received a notice
from the Army 12 days after the decision declaring the
“immediate cessation” of new minority-preference contracts
related to the products, he said.  The ruling may “open the door to more lawsuits”
challenging the program in other industries and federal
agencies, said Alan Chvotkin, counsel and executive vice
president of the Professional Services Council, an Arlington,
Virginia-based association for contractors.  “The implications across the government could be
significant,” Chvotkin said in a phone interview.  Justice Department Review  U.S. District Judge  Emmet Sullivan  ruled that setting aside
the simulator contracts for minority-owned firms without
specific evidence that they face discrimination in the industry
violates the Constitution.  The government “provided no evidence whatsoever from which
an inference of discrimination in that industry could be made,”
said Sullivan, appointed in 1994 by former President  Bill
Clinton .  Unlike appeals court rulings, the decision of a single
federal judge isn’t binding on any other court.  Bill Miller , a
spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of
Columbia, declined to comment on whether the  Justice Department 
would appeal. He said his office is reviewing the court’s
decision.  Cheryl Irwin , a Pentagon spokeswoman, didn’t respond
to requests for comment.  “The SBA is working with the  Department of Justice  and
 Department of Defense  to review the decision and determine the
appropriate next steps,” Emily Cain, a Small Business
Administration spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Pentagon Memo  The fears expressed by vendors may be overblown, based on
the Defense Department’s reaction so far, said Joe Hornyak, a
partner in the Tysons Corner,  Virginia , office of law firm
Holland & Knight LLP.  The Pentagon stopped awarding 8(a) contracts for simulators
and related services, and won’t extend existing contracts
through the program, according to an Aug. 22 memo obtained by
Bloomberg.  “Businesses ought to feel fortunate that this is all the
Department of Defense did,” Hornyak said in a phone interview.
The Pentagon “could have looked at other industries to see if
there was evidence of underrepresentation and discrimination
and, if not, decided to stop awarding contracts in those
sectors, as well.”  Artillery Fire  An increase in lawsuits challenging the preference program
is “not as likely as you might think,” said Hornyak, who
specializes in contracting law. “Most government contractors
might be reluctant to take on an important program like the 8(a)
program.”  Katmai, an Alaska Native-owned company, in April won a
contract under the 8(a) program to maintain and upgrade
technology used to train soldiers in detecting and reacting to
artillery fire and to chemical and biological weapons, CEO
Stephens said.  The contract had been valued at $12.6 million over five
years and the company so far has been paid about $637,000. If
the government doesn’t exercise further options, the agreement
will end Dec. 31, and Katmai will have to fire 31 workers out of
275 employees.  The decision may have a “devastating” effect on minority
firms, said Anthony Robinson, president of the  Minority Business
Enterprise Legal Defense and Educational Fund  in Largo,
 Maryland .  “The discrimination that prompted the program still
exists,” Robinson, who is also on the board of the Washington-
based  National Black Chamber of Commerce , said in a phone
interview.  Filed in 1995  Minority-owned firms usually gain access to the government
market through the preferential program. Without the protection
it provides, “it’s almost impossible for them to survive,” he
said.  The lawsuit that led to the decision was filed in 1995 by
DynaLantic Corp., a Sayville, New York-based company that makes
flight simulators and other military training equipment. It
contested a Navy plan to award a contract for a flight simulator
through the preference program.  Jeff Weinstock, vice president and part owner of
DynaLantic, said the company filed the lawsuit because officials
thought the firm was unfairly getting shut out of programs.  The court ruling “should help a lot” over time, he said.
The company derives all of its revenue from simulator and
training-related services.  New Filing  DynaLantic primarily subcontracts with top contractors such
as Waltham, Massachusetts-based  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  It has built simulators
that imitate the experience of flying aircraft, ships and
vehicles, including the Seawolf SSN-21 submarine, made by
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , and the Huey II helicopter, made by
 Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Bell Helicopter division.  In a filing yesterday in Washington, DynaLantic asked the
judge to amend his order, arguing that the Aug. 15 ruling
``should have been broader on its restrictions'' on the Defense
Department than just requiring evidence of discrimination in the
industry.  ``Merely articulating a strong basis in evidence for using
the race-conscious Section 8(a) program in the simulation and
training industry is not enough,'' Michael Rosman, a lawyer for
DynaLantic, wrote in the filing.   The department should be blocked from issuing contracts
through the 8(a) program until it can also show that the process
meets the higher constitutional standard of being
``narrowly-tailored'' and meeting ``a compelling governmental
interest,'' according to Rosman of the Center for Individual
Rights, a Washington-based public interest group that opposes
racial preferences.  Helping Disadvantaged  The 8(a) program, established by Congress in 1978, was
designed to help socially and economically disadvantaged
companies compete for government work. Admission to the program
gives entrepreneurs access to federal contracts that often
aren’t subject to competition.  The SBA defines socially disadvantaged individuals as
“those who have been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice or
cultural bias,” such as women, blacks, Hispanics, Native
Americans and Asian-Americans.  Across all federal agencies, the program accounted for
$16.8 billion in contract awards in the fiscal year that ended
Sept. 30, more than the budget of the Commerce Department.  Eligibility is limited to U.S. citizens whose net worth
can’t initially exceed $250,000 or rise above $750,000 while in
the program.  The case is DynaLantic Corp. v. U.S. Department of Defense,
95-cv-02301, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  