-- Intel Betting Machines Will Need Its Chips Rather Than Web
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-09-13T20:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/intel-betting-machines-will-need-its-chips-rather-than-internet.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
semiconductor maker, is betting that the growth of Internet
connections in everything from passenger jets to vending
machines will help reduce its reliance on chips for personal
computers and data centers.  More than a third of the 15 billion devices connected to
the Web by 2015 will be non-standard computing machines,
according to Ton Steenman, Intel’s vice president for embedded
devices. They will generate a flood of data that can’t be
processed in remote computing centers, and will need powerful
semiconductors to analyze the information.  “If you look at the growth of the network and the growth
of storage, the amount of data is far outpacing that,” Steenman
said at a company conference in  San Francisco .  Intel’s fastest-growing business is selling server chips to
cloud services providers, yet computing over the Internet won’t
be the answer in every situation, Steenman said. That opens up
an opportunity as demand shifts away from personal computers
toward smartphones and tablets, areas where Intel has struggled
to win orders, he said.  Intel, which trimmed its third-quarter sales prediction
last week amid a slump in PC demand, will get $2 billion of its
 estimated  $53 billion in revenue this year from chips used in
so-called embedded systems, he said.  The embedded division is one of Chief Executive Officer
 Paul Otellini ’s attempts to reduce Intel’s reliance on chips for
personal computers and data centers, which  provided  84 percent
of revenue last year.  Local Analytics  Intel, which uses the annual three-day Developer Forum to
show off technology it wants computer makers to adopt,
demonstrated an Web-connected  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  vending machine
based on one of its i7 series processors. Sporting a large touch
screen display, the machine shows products and offers to take
and e-mail digital photographs. While it could have worked with
a less powerful chip to track inventory remotely, the more
powerful chip enables the vending machine to do sales work, said
Steenman.  Other examples included an intelligent traffic light that
crunches sensor data and diverts traffic when an emergency
services vehicle is approaching and greenhouse watering systems.
Jet engines generate a vast amount of data that can’t be carried
over any Internet connection, Steenman said.  “We have to find a different answer than moving it up to
the cloud and trying to analyze it there,” he said. “If you
need real-time response, you can’t just send the data to the
cloud and hope -- you need a lot of local analytics.”  Shares of the  Santa Clara , California-based company rose
less than 1 percent to $23.36 at the close in  New York , and are
down 6.9 percent since the day before the company revised its
earnings outlook on Sept. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  