-- Intel Seeks to Eliminate Computer Passwords With Wave of Hand
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-09-13T19:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/intel-seeks-to-eliminate-computer-passwords-with-wave-of-hand.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  wants to do away with
computer passwords.  Research scientists at Intel, the world’s largest
chipmaker, demonstrated a system that recognizes the pattern of
veins in the palm of a hand as it’s waved over a sensor,
eliminating the need for the string of numbers and letters now
used to gain access to phones, computers or websites.  “Nobody likes passwords,” Intel Chief Technology Officer
Justin Rattner said in an interview before presenting the work
in progress at a meeting for developers today. “This completely
removes this deeply inconvenient notion of passwords.”  Rattner leads a team of more than a thousand scientists
worldwide who seek future uses for Intel’s chips and the devices
that they run. His team includes anthropologists and even
science-fiction writers who study people and try to imagine how
they can use technology that Intel’s processors would enable. An
increasing amount of Intel’s lab work is focused on solutions to
more near-term, real-life problems, Rattner said.  While other so-called biometric identification devices are
already in common use, Intel’s system goes further, he said.
Once the machine has identified a user, embedded hardware and
software connects with all the other protected services -- say,
online banking -- that person would normally access.  For added protection, the machines will contain additional
sensors that detect when a user has stepped away and will
automatically lock down access to all connected machines and
sites, he said.  Rattner also took pains to reassure people who may be
concerned that miscreants might resort to violence to gain
access to a person’s palm.  “Severed hands won’t work because you have to have blood
flow,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  