-- IPhone 5 Shift to LTE Tests What Users Will Pay for Speed: Tech
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-09-13T21:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/iphone-5-shift-to-lte-tests-what-users-will-pay-for-speed-tech.html
For all the hype, the most
revolutionary thing about  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5 is probably its
compatibility with a wonky technology standard called LTE, or
long-term evolution, used in the high-speed 4G wireless networks
being rolled out around the world.  Carriers have spent billions so they can offer faster
Internet connections and boost their capacity -- and they need
to win over consumers to recoup their investment,  Bloomberg
Businessweek  reports in its Sept. 17 issue.  “The iPhone is going to be the first big catalyst for
adoption of LTE,” said Murali Nemani, a director of marketing
at  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   LTE promises to enable smartphones to stream high-
definition movies, handle video chats, and store files and
photos on cloud services without a hitch. Getting consumers to
pay the freight for all those bytes is another story. While LTE
networks can handle twice the traffic of most 3G networks, the
proliferation of smartphones, tablets and video-streaming and
cloud-computing services will drive up demand for mobile data
18-fold through 2016, according to Cisco.  So far, carriers are dealing with the increase by moving
away from unlimited plans in favor of usage caps. If they charge
too much, customers may stick with cheaper 3G networks or
piggyback on free Wi-Fi at work or the local coffee shop. If
they price 4G plans too low, there could be traffic overload
that would slow or disrupt service.  Data Deluge  Thanks to the iPhone 5, it won’t take long to discover how
things shake out. Sales of the device are expected to approach
50 million by year-end. There are now only 2 million LTE devices
connected to  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s network, said  Walter Piecyk , an analyst
at BTIG LLC. Carriers say they’re prepared to manage the data
deluge, but they still risk a backlash if too many customers
blow past their data caps and incur extra fees.  “In a world where data usage is rising and disposable
incomes aren’t, there’s a question as to whether this is all
sustainable,” said Craig Moffett, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co.  The telecom companies are betting the new iPhone will get
consumers more fired up about 4G networks. In an August survey
by Piper Jaffray Cos., 47 percent of people polled said they
don’t have any interest in 4G. The version of the iPad that
Apple unveiled in March is LTE-compatible, but less than
20 percent of consumers choose that model, said Moffett, and
about half of those who do don’t turn the service on.  “It’s unclear how much LTE is driving user services right
now,” said Piecyk.  Overage Charges  To get customers to move off unlimited plans, AT&T and
 Verizon Wireless (VZ)  are both pushing shared data options that offer
convenience and some protection against accidental overage
charges. AT&T offers 1 gigabyte of data starting at $40 a month,
plus $45 per smartphone and $10 per tablet. Exceed the data
limit and a user incurs a $15 penalty for each extra gigabyte
used. Only struggling Sprint Nextel Corp. and T-Mobile USA Inc.
still offer unlimited plans.  These shared plans may help carriers lock in customers to
their services, but they may not generate the additional revenue
required to pay the bill for building out LTE, said  Hans Vestberg , chief executive officer of  Ericsson AB (ERIC) , the world’s
biggest maker of mobile-phone networks.  The industry has spent a combined $6.75 billion to secure
spectrum rights and buy equipment and will need to invest an
additional $62 billion by 2016 to roll out 4G coverage globally,
said market-research firm Infonetics Research.  Consumer Needs  Carriers will have to get a lot more creative with the
packages they sell. Rather than just sell data capacity, they’ll
need to offer deals attractive to consumers -- for example, an
extra $10 a month for unlimited movie streaming.  “We’re going to see operators try to reach different types
of consumers with different needs,” Vestberg said.  It’s already happening outside the U.S. Turkey’s  Turkcell
Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  offers access to  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social
network on a “zero-rated” basis, meaning time spent on that
site doesn’t count against the consumer’s monthly data limit. In
 Tunisia , wireless carrier Orange, a unit of  France Telecom SA (FTE) ,
has run Happy Hour promotions that offer lower rates for off-
peak hours.  Diverting Traffic  Fortunately for carriers, LTE networks work in a way that
makes such innovation easier to implement. Certain types of
traffic -- say, a high-definition Dodgers baseball game -- can
be more easily diverted to an available Wi-Fi network. Cisco’s
Nemani said large carriers are testing technology that will let
them send a warning that offers three options when a consumer is
approaching a data limit: accept a lower resolution to use fewer
bits, agree to watch a 10-second ad, or pay to finish what
they’re doing.  “The struggling student may go for the lower resolution,
while the businessman will pay the 99 cents to watch the rest of
the game,” Nemani said.  Ultimately, carriers will try to pressure content owners
and distributors -- including Apple -- to pay some of the cost
for the millions of movies, songs and other data they put on
networks.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  already bakes the cost of bandwidth to
download books into the price of its basic Kindle devices.
Books, though, can be compressed into mere megabytes of data. A
single high-definition movie along with a few video chats could
easily blow through a 5-gigabyte monthly limit.  Executives at  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and online game companies may
know that they’ll need to subsidize premium offers to guarantee
glitch-free delivery as LTE networks get more congested. So far,
they’re not saying much about it publicly, said Marcus Weldon,
Alcatel-Lucent SA’s chief technology officer.  “It’s been a bit of a staring contest between operators
and content owners to see who’s willing to come to the table
first to have a realistic conversation about the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Cantor at 
 dcantor5@bloomberg.net  