-- Iran Attack Would Halt Nuclear Bid for Four Years, Report Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-09-13T03:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/iran-attack-would-halt-nuclear-bid-for-four-years-report-says.html
A U.S. or Israeli attack on  Iran ’s
nuclear facilities would derail the Islamic Republic’s suspected
weapons program for four years at most while uniting its
citizens and alienating the Muslim world, according to a report.  The report to be released today by the “Iran Project,” a
bipartisan group of former national-security officials and
foreign-policy specialists, discusses the military pros and cons
of a strike on Iran’s nuclear facilities and outlines the less-
discussed political fallout of any such attack.  Air raids, commando assaults and computer network attacks
“would destroy or severely damage many of Iran’s physical
facilities and stockpiles,” according to the report. “But, in
our judgment, complete destruction of Iran’s nuclear program is
unlikely and Iran would still retain the scientific capacity and
the experience to start its nuclear program again.”  Military effectiveness notwithstanding, the New York-based
group’s report concluded that “one of the most serious but
difficult to quantify costs of military action against Iran
could be damage to U.S. reputation and standing.”  “If  Iran’s nuclear program  is attacked by the U.S. or
 Israel  in the absence of an international mandate or a
multinational coalition, support for maintaining sanctions
against Iran could be substantially weakened,” the report said.  Iran may retaliate by attempting to close the  Strait of
Hormuz , an action that would “rattle global markets and cause a
significant spike in  oil prices ,” according to the report.  ‘Destabilizing Forces’  An assault would “introduce destabilizing political and
economic forces in a region already experiencing major
transformations,” the report said. A U.S. strike may provoke
worldwide anger among Muslims and enhance al-Qaeda’s ability to
recruit new members, it said.  The report reiterates conclusions previously outlined by
U.S. officials, including Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Admiral
Michael Mullen, about the limited effectiveness of a military
attack on Iran.  A U.S. air strike involving  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  stealth
B-2 bombers dropping 30,000-pound precision-guided penetrating 
bombs “carried out to near perfection” could delay Iran’s 
program by up to four years, according to the report.  A unilateral strike by Israel “with its more limited
capabilities, could delay Iran’s ability to build a bomb by up
to two years,” the report said. An Israeli airstrike “is
unlikely to succeed in destroying or even seriously damaging”
the deeply buried Fordo enrichment facility and the stockpile 
of near-weapons- grade enriched uranium there.  Noteworthy Signers  The “lack of a high-confidence military option against
Fordo is a key reason why Israeli government officials believe
they must take action to destroy Iran’s supply of low-enriched
uranium and damage Iran’s ability to produce more centrifuges
before Fordo becomes fully operational,” the report said.  The report may be more noteworthy for the former U.S.
officials listed among its signatories, including former Central
Intelligence Agency Deputy Director  Paul Pillar ; former U.S.
Central Command commanders Marine Corps General Anthony Zinni
and Admiral William Fallon.  Other signers of the report include former Republican
Senator Chuck Hagel of  Nebraska  and former Democratic Senator
Sam Nunn of  Georgia ; retired U.S. Ambassador Thomas Pickering;
George W. Bush-era Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage
and former National Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  