-- Hisun-Pfizer Pharmaceutical to Hire 600 China Staff by Year-End
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-09-13T16:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/hisun-pfizer-pharmaceutical-to-hire-600-china-staff-by-year-end.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s joint venture with
 Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceutical Co. (600267)  plans to hire 600 people in
 China  by the end of the year, its chief executive officer said.  Hisun-Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Co., is seeking employees for
manufacturing, research and development, commercial and support
functions such as finance, Chief Executive Officer Kevin Xiao
said in a phone interview yesterday. Hisun-Pfizer aims to have
about 1,000 employees in the world’s most populous nation by
December, and around 1,500 by the end of 2013, Xiao said.  “We are trying to attract appropriate people for the
positions,” said Xiao, who was previously a general manager at
New York-based Pfizer’s China business. “So far, in the sales
force, we have more Pfizer people, but in manufacturing, it’s
the other way around.”  Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, holds a 49 percent
stake in the venture, while Zhejiang Hisun holds the rest. The
companies signed the framework agreement for the venture in
February during Chinese vice-president Xi Jinping’s visit to the
U.S. Xi and former U.S. Secretary of Commerce  John Bryson 
attended the signing ceremony, the companies said in a statement
yesterday.  The venture has a total investment of $295 million and
registered capital of $250 million, the companies said. The
venture will offer products for cardiovascular disease,
infectious disease, oncology, and mental health, they said.  “These are two totally different companies -- one state-
owned, the other one a big multinational,” Xiao said. “We need
to balance the foreign and local culture, practice and mindset.
That’s a pretty big challenge for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  