-- Italy Sells 3-Year Debt at Lowest Yield in Almost 2 Years
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-09-13T10:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/italy-sells-3-year-debt-at-lowest-yield-in-almost-2-years.html
Italy  sold three-year debt at the
lowest rate in almost two years, a day after  Germany ’s top
constitutional court paved the way for the  European Central Bank 
and the European Union to buy bonds of nations in distress.  The Rome-based Treasury sold 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion)
of its benchmark three-year bond to yield 2.75 percent, down
from 4.65 percent at the last auction of the same securities on
July 13. That was the lowest Italy paid on three-year debt since
October 2010, according to Bloomberg data. Investors bid for
1.49 times the amount offered, down from 1.73 times on July 13.  “In a word, storming demand, full volume sold, with yields
struck at auction well below secondary market levels, and cover
strong, at least by Italian standards,”  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-
income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London , said in
a note to investors. “This really does highlight how much good
news is now being priced into the peripheral markets on the back
of the OMT, the German ESM ruling and also hopes for QE3
today.”  The bond auction was the first for Italy since the ECB’s
announced on Sept. 6 its Outright Monetary Transactions program
to make unlimited purchases of sovereign bonds, which led to a
plunge in borrowing costs of distressed debt in Spain and Italy.
The sale also came a day after Germany’s Federal Constitutional
Court ruled the government can ratify the euro-region’s
permanent bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, a
decision that could pave the way for EU and ECB bond buying.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield rose 2 basis points to 5.06
percent at 12:35 p.m. in  Rome , leaving the difference with
comparable maturity German bunds at 345 basis points.  Long Maturity  Italy also sold 1 billion euros of five-year debt today at
3.71 percent and 1.5 billion euros of bonds due in 2026 at 5.32
percent, the longest-maturity bonds sold this year. The sale
came two days before 10.4 billion euros of bonds mature. Italy
auctioned 12 billion euros of Treasury bills yesterday.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who reiterated this month that
Italy doesn’t plan to request bond buying for now, called
yesterday’s ruling “excellent news.” He also said conditions
in the court’s decision won’t slow efforts to lower yields.  “I think the sentence only says that to increase the total
commitment of Germany the two houses of parliament have to
intercede,” Monti told reporters in Rome yesterday. “That
doesn’t seem surprising to me.”  Italy’s 10-year bond yields fell to the lowest in April
yesterday and have declined more than 50 basis points since ECB
President  Mario Draghi  gave details of the Frankfurt-based
bank’s plans to buy bonds in tandem with the ESM to try to lower
borrowing costs.  Italy’s total government debt declined in July for the
first time in five months, the  Bank of Italy  said in a separate
report today. The debt load decreased to 1.967 trillion euros
from 1.973 trillion euros in June. Even with that fall, Italy’s
total borrowing is the euro region’s second largest in nominal
terms after Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  