-- Italian Economy to Shrink 0.6% in 2013, Employers Say
-- B y   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-09-13T12:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/italian-economy-to-shrink-0-6-in-2013-employers-say.html
Italy ’s economy will begin
recovering next year as the recession in the euro region’s
third-biggest economy will be deeper than previously forecast,
the head of employers’ lobby  Confindustria  said.  “The economy in the whole of  Europe  is going down and in
other areas, like  China , it is certainly not showing the same
growth of the last few years -- this is the worrying point,”
Giorgio Squinzi said in an interview in  Rome  today. “We are
relatively optimistic because starting from next year we will
probably see a recovery of the economy, and Italy should benefit
from this new situation.”  Today Confindustria revised down its growth forecast for
Italy, saying  gross domestic product  will shrink 0.6 percent in
2013, compared with a 0.3 percent contraction projected in June.
The group maintained its estimate of a 2.4 percent contraction
this year, twice the pace predicted by the government.  It also said Italy’s deficit will fall to 2.1 percent of
GDP this year and 1.4 percent next. In June it had estimated a
shortfall of 2.6 percent and 1.6 percent respectively. The
country’s  debt , the euro region’s second-biggest, will rise this
year to 125.6 percent of GDP before peaking at 126 percent in
2013, Confindustria forecast  Italy’s economy, which entered a recession at the end of
2011, contracted for a fourth straight quarter in the three
months through June as the euro-area debt crisis worsened.
Still, Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s austerity drive aimed at
reducing the country’s deficit and containing its debt means
that the country will probably meet its fiscal targets this
year. Italy’s debt declined in July for the first time in five
months, the  Bank of Italy  said in a separate report today.  ‘Additional Safety’  Italy today sold three-year  government bonds  at the lowest
rate in almost two years. That followed yesterday’s ruling by
Germany’s top constitutional court that paves the way for the
European Central Bank and the European rescue fund to buy bonds
of nations in distress.  The employers’ lobby also said that Monti’s measures will
probably allow Italy to keep its debt financing costs lower this
year and avoid a full bailout.  “We hope that it will be possible not to demand further
help from the European institutions,” Squinzi, who was named
Confindustria’s head in March, said. “In any case, the fact
that the  European Central Bank  is authorized and available to do
this is an additional safety.”  The government forecasts that Italy’s economy will contract
1.2 percent this year and expand 0.5 percent next year.  -- With assistance from Nadine Skoczylas in Rome. Editors:
 Andrew Davis , Eddie Buckle  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  