-- Mitt Romney and the Water’s Edge of Politics
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-09-13T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/mitt-romney-at-the-water-s-edge.html
Ten years ago, at a panel
discussion in Wales, I was asked about a particularly
contentious issue of  U.S. foreign policy . To the disappointment
of my hosts, I responded by apologizing for being a bit old-
fashioned about such matters: I was raised to a rather
traditional sort of patriotism, and didn’t believe in bashing my
country while traveling abroad.  I hadn’t thought about that day for years, but it came to
mind this week after Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney ’s criticism of the State Department’s initial response to
the assaults on our embassy in Cairo and consulate in Benghazi,
Libya.  In explaining why few Republicans have jumped to endorse
Romney’s comments, the AP (among other observers)  reminds us 
that “the old notion that politics stops at the water’s edge
still resonates in some quarters in  Washington .” I have long
loved the phrase, and the old-fashioned part of me, of course,
wants to agree with the idea that whatever our domestic
disagreements, we are unified as we face the rest of the world.  Alas, we are long past that point. A quick glance at the
George W. Bush years should serve as an adequate reminder that
being commander-in-chief of a nation under threat is no longer
viewed as providing an immunity from criticism. The truth is, it
never was.  Old Saw  The old saw that “politics stops at the water’s edge” is
just that --  an old saw . Few considered soldiers dying in
Vietnam as a reason to avoid attacking the presidents who
presided over that war. Nor can the Vietnam protests be
dismissed as the self-indulgence of the baby-boomer generation.
 Thomas Jefferson ’s political enemies excoriated his handling of
the war with the Barbary States. Abraham Lincoln clashed
repeatedly with the radical wing of his own  Republican Party 
over his generalship in the Civil War. And by the end of 1943, a
growing chorus of the Greatest Generation was demanding that we
bring our boys home from Europe.  I am not suggesting that the maxim has never been followed.
My point is that it has been honored in the breach.  So where does it come from, this notion that politics stops
at the water’s edge? Many historians describe it as an artifact
of the  Cold War , when the parties were united against the
communist enemy. The maxim is often attributed to Senator Arthur Vandenberg of Michigan, who used it in a speech in 1947, upon
his ascension to the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee. Vandenberg, a Republican, was explaining
why he intended to buck isolationist elements in his party and
support the Truman administration’s internationalism, including
the  Marshall Plan .  But Vandenberg, though he might have popularized the
phrase, was not its originator. He might have picked it up from
James Reston of the  New York  Times, who used the phrase in an
article on Truman’s Middle East policy the year before
Vandenberg uttered it. Reston, however, did not invent it,
either.  The earliest usage recorded in the Oxford Dictionary of
American Slang is drawn from the Helena ( Montana ) Independent in
1939. With the help of Google Inc.’s Ngram Viewer, I turned up a
reference in the 1938 edition of “History of the  United States ”
by Charles Austin Beard and Mary Ritter Beard, who refer to the
phrase as “an old saying.”  One possible origin is in relation to the common-law
understanding of certain rights in riparian land as ending “at
the water’s edge” -- the notion being that privileges exercised
on the land are transformed into duties to others once one
enters a river or lake. One also finds in Christian sources from
the 19th century an image of baptism in which the believer, “at
the water’s edge,” leaves his old self behind.  Uncertain Origins  Whatever the origin of the phrase, a lot of recent writers
think we should discard it. Nicholas von Hoffman, in his  2004
book  “Hoax: Why Americans Are Suckered by White House Lies,”
scoffed: “Politics does not stop at the water’s edge, or
anyplace else. … What stops at the water’s edge in a war-or-
peace discussion is political courage.”  Earlier this summer, Paul Waldman, a contributing editor at
the American Prospect,  derided  the supposed tradition: “We often
hear that if you’re a politician, it’s unseemly to be political
’on foreign soil.’ But seriously, who cares? Are we worried that
people in the rest of the world will discover the terrible truth
that we engage in politics and that people from our competing
parties don’t much like each other? Horrors!”  But before we toss away so venerable a maxim -- even one
honored in the breach -- we should consider the reasons for its
survival. In the first place, the realist might point out that a
potential enemy considering attack might pause if he believes
that our fractious nation can unify in the face of danger.
Second, the notion that politics stops at the water’s edge has
an attractive unifying quality, implying that, in times of
crisis, we can perhaps be one people. Finally, there is a
transcendent quality to the claim because of its suggestion that
politics is small and America is large -- just as every
politician insists, and some no doubt believe, that our
commonalities are greater than our differences.  Let’s not forget that the ratchet can turn both ways, and
sometimes has. The flip side of the unspoken rule against
criticizing the president’s foreign-policy initiatives was that
the president wouldn’t politicize them, either.  This symmetry was brought forcefully into public view in
2002, less than a year after the Sept. 11 attacks, after  Karl Rove  went to Austin, Texas, to address the  Republican National
Committee  before the midterm elections. Rove urged that the
campaign be constructed around the theme that the Republican
Party would do better than the Democrats in protecting America.
Among the many critics of the speech was longtime Democratic
Representative John Dingell of Michigan, who responded in
disgust: “Patriotic Americans have always taken the view that
politics stops at the water’s edge.”  There is a lovely, almost poetic, idealism to this
sentiment. A nation seriously devoted to the principle that we
share in a larger purpose than the pursuit of partisan advantage
would be far more attractive than the one in which we live. So I
vote to keep our hoary maxim about the water’s edge, whether or
not we can live up to it. Call me old-fashioned if you like, but
I still consider the America the sentiment expresses an America
worth aspiring to.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
most recent novel is “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  tax spat in France , on
Egypt’s dance around the  U.S. embassy breach  and on the
disingenuousness of last year’s  debt-ceiling debate ;  Jonathan
Alter  on Romney’s  “No Apology” foreign policy ;  Noah Feldman  on
 China’s invisible heir apparent ;  Ezra Klein  on a  carbon-tax
fantasy ; Willie Pesek on  China’s missing No. 2  man;  Jonathan
Weil  on banks that admit their  balance sheets  are awful;  Alex
Marshall  on why  capitalism and government  are friends after all.  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 