-- J&J Names Bayer’s Peterson Chairman for Consumer Business
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-09-13T20:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/j-j-names-bayer-s-peterson-chairman-for-consumer-business.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  named Sandra E. Peterson, the chief of  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s crop-chemical unit, to oversee
J&J’s troubled consumer businesses as Chief Executive Officer
 Alex Gorsky ’s first major hire.  Peterson, 52, will also head its  information technology  and
global supply chain operations, the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based company said in a statement today. The consumer group has
been plagued by quality control issues in its over-the-counter
drug lines, including the recall of hundreds of millions of
packets of Tylenol, Motrin, Benadryl and other products.  Gorsky, who became CEO in April, has said his focus at the
world’s biggest seller of health products is on getting those
products back on market shelves this year and next. The company
is facing difficulties with other units as well, and in July cut
its 2012 profit forecast. Peterson will bring wide experience at
Bayer into her new role.  She “is an experienced global leader known for her
strategic thinking and proven track record in growing
businesses,” Gorsky said in the statement.  J&J  rose  1.2 percent to $68.99 at 4 p.m. New York time.  The company stopped selling several types of vaginal mesh
implants tied to internal injuries and hundreds of lawsuits in
June, and recalled a bone putty used to stop bleeding in August
because it could catch fire during surgery.  Lawsuits Settled  Last month, it agreed to settle three of about 8,000
lawsuits over hip implants it recalled in 2010 for $600,000. It
also halted development its intravenous Alzheimer’s disease drug
bapineuzumab, for which it paid $1 billion in 2010.  Peterson will be a group worldwide chairman and a member of
the executive committee. She will oversee the chiefs of each of
the three units in her group.  Peterson was promoted atop Bayer’s agricultural chemicals
unit in 2010 after leading the German company’s Bayer Medical
Care and diabetes units. She worked at McKinsey & Co.,  Whirlpool
Corp. (WHR)  and Nabisco before becoming a senior vice president at
Medco Health Solutions Inc.  Bayer’s crop unit flourished under Peterson, with rising
sales this year contributing to the company’s most recent
increase in its forecast in July. The German company is one of
the last remaining drugs and chemicals conglomerates, with about
a fifth of its sales last year coming from the crop unit. Its
other two units make plastics and medicines, including Xarelto,
a blood thinner that Bayer sells together with J&J.  Peterson was part of a team of top managers created for
Bayer Chief Executive Officer Marijn Dekkers when he took over
in 2010.  She will step down from Bayer Nov. 30 and start at J&J Dec.
1. Carol Goodrich, a spokeswoman for J&J, declined to make any
of its executives available for an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  