-- JAL’s $8.5 Billion Rebirth Took Lessons From Crash-Site Morgue
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2012-09-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/jal-s-8-5-billion-rebirth-took-lessons-from-crash-site-morgue.html
Japan  Airlines Co. Chairman Masaru Onishi still feels a burning sensation in his stomach each time
he climbs Osutaka Ridge, where 27 years ago he helped man a
make-shift morgue after one of the carrier’s jets plowed into
the mountainside.  The former aircraft engineer, who helped steer JAL from its
2010 bankruptcy to an $8.5 billion share sale and restored
listing next week in  Tokyo , remembers the  crash  in which 520
people perished as an early turning point for the company. As
passengers deserted the airline and the government ended its
monopoly on international routes, managers began a top-to-bottom
overhaul as if they were starting from scratch.  “There’s a lot of similarities between our turnaround from
bankruptcy and our recovery from the crash,” Onishi said after
revisiting the disaster site on a hot and humid evening last
month in an annual pilgrimage by management to commemorate the
tragedy. “We started over again with a blank sheet, taking our
recovery process step by step.”  This time around, the blank sheet meant a shake-up as
profound as recent years of tinkering had been skin-deep: 21,000
jobs went, prestige routes to Milan and Rome were axed, and the
company that was once the world’s biggest operator of  Boeing Co. (BA) 
747s retired all 37 of the planes still left in its fleet. After
reporting  losses  in 10 of the previous 16 years, JAL emerged as
the world’s most profitable airline in March.  “They did a lot of the things they hadn’t been doing for
20 or 30 years,” said Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis
Investment Research Corp. in Tokyo, which manages about $300
million in assets. “They were very overstaffed and they got rid
of people. They had too many routes and they cut routes.”  Top of Range  JAL shares were sold at the top end of the range offered to
investors in the world’s second-biggest initial public offering
this year. At five times the company’s forecast of  130 billion
yen  ($1.68 billion) in net income for the year ending March 31,
the stock was priced at half the global average for airlines
with a market value of at least $5 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “A fully fledged airline coming out and IPO-ing is
virtually unheard of,” said  Peter Harbison , who advises
carriers as executive chairman at the Centre for Asia Pacific
Aviation in Sydney. “It’s been done extremely well.”  JAL may become the world’s  fourth-largest  airline by market
value, displacing  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  -- which won an
international license following the 1985 crash that is still the
world’s deadliest single-plane disaster. Santiago-based  Latam
Airlines Group SA (LFL)  is the largest carrier at $11.8 billion,
followed by  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and Beijing-based  Air China
Ltd. (753)   Reborn  Shares in the Japanese carrier traded in the gray market
this week about 7 percent higher than the IPO price, according
to BTIG  Hong Kong  Ltd.  Sheared free of most interest expenses after creditors took
an 88 percent bath on 522 billion yen of debt, JAL also slashed
operating costs in half to  1 trillion yen  while the Tokyo-based
company was under court protection. Revenue also fell, by 40
percent, as underperforming or non-aviation units were
jettisoned.  The cuts enabled the carrier to post a record profit of 187
billion yen last fiscal year. In dollar terms, that was more
than double the $1.1 billion net income at Air China, the
second-most profitable airline, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “JAL is a reborn company,” said  Masayuki Kubota , who
oversees $1.9 billion in assets at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in
Tokyo. “Bankruptcy makes a company’s reform easier.”  Bankruptcy  Seeking court protection is relatively common in Western
nations --  General Motors Co. (GM)  emerged from a government-backed
bankruptcy in 2009; all the full-service U.S. carriers have gone
bust. In Japan, while the laws exist, the stigma associated with
failure and a culture in which corporations are run as much for
employees as for shareholders has created a reluctance to make
such drastic decisions.  The more so with a national champion such as JAL.  The airline was founded in 1951, becoming state-owned two
years later. Routes to Asia, the U.S. and Europe followed, with
JAL opening an office on Fifth Avenue in New York in 1969 and
dozens of hotels around the world, including New York, London
and  Frankfurt .  “They were exciting times,” said former spokesman Geoff
Tudor, who joined the company in 1969. “We were expanding
rapidly. We came from nowhere in the 1950s to world
recognition.”  Dragged Down  Then in 1985, a faulty bulkhead ruptured, damaging the tail
of a 747 on a flight to  Osaka . JAL used the long-haul aircraft
like a shuttle bus, cramming more than 500 people into domestic
flights. Boeing later  settled  with the families of the 520
people who died. There were four survivors.  As JAL struggled to restore its reputation in the wake of
the crash, the government in 1986 granted ANA its international
license. Years of unchallenged growth as the nation’s economy
expanded more than 20-fold had left JAL bloated and vulnerable
when Japan’s  bubble economy  burst at the end of the 1980s,
according to Tudor.  “JAL had invested in lots of other businesses,” he said.
“JAL people were not good at managing them. That sort of
dragged the company down.”  The airline limped along with emergency loans from state-
owned  Development Bank  of Japan following the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks in 2001, the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory
syndrome and again in 2008 as Japan suffered its worst postwar
recession.  Turnaround Plan  In January 2010, JAL filed for the nation’s largest
bankruptcy of a non-financial company, outlining a turnaround
plan costing 900 billion yen -- $10 billion at the time.  The government, once again JAL’s owner after a state-led
bailout, turned to Kazuo Inamori, the 80-year-old founder of
 Kyocera Corp. (6971) , a $15 billion electronics company. Inamori had no
airline experience and Onishi was made president to aid him.  Inamori “was the first real businessman who was running
JAL,” said Atlantis Investment’s Merner. “He was very
important in making the strategy. Other people weren’t going to
rock the boat.”  He cut more than a third of the company’s workforce, triple
the number proposed by previous President Haruka Nishimatsu. The
fleet shrank to 215 planes at the end of March, from 278 two
years earlier, as 28 international routes and 41 domestic ones
were axed. JAL flew about 35.8 million passengers last fiscal
year, compared with ANA’s 42.6 million.  Wages, Benefits  Wages, pensions and benefits -- such as free flights for
employees -- were all reduced. JAL said employees earned 6.3
million yen a year on average at the end of June, compared with
7.7 million yen at ANA.  In November 2010, JAL sold its 51 percent stake in catering
unit TFK. The carrier also sold its headquarters, leasing back
fewer floors -- Oneworld loyalty program partner  American
Airlines  Inc. now occupies the top story.  JAL and American Airlines started a venture last year on
that sets fares, sells tickets and decides schedules on Pacific
routes to boost sales and pare costs. The number of code-share
tickets issued on JAL and American Airlines jumped eightfold for
the year ended March 31, from a year earlier, said Sze Hunn Yap,
a spokeswoman for the Japanese airline. JAL is also forming a
venture with British Airways on European routes.  Revival  The Japanese carrier now aims to boost international
capacity 25 percent by March 2017. JAL began its first flights
to  Boston  in April, using Boeing’s more fuel-efficient  787 
aircraft, and plans to add services to San Diego in  December  and
Helsinki in March. It has ordered 45 of the  Dreamliners .  “Courtesy of rehabilitation, JAL has a stronger balance
sheet than both ANA and global peers,” said Nicholas Cunningham, a Tokyo-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.  Inamori, who is also an ordained Buddhist priest, stepped
back to become chairman emeritus in February, with Onishi taking
his current role and 37-year JAL veteran Yoshiharu Ueki taking
over as president.  Ueki, a former pilot who flew 747s to  North America , is the
son of actor  Chiezo Kataoka , who starred in dozens of samurai
movies up until his death in 1983. The 59-year-old starred in a
couple of movies as a child. He decided acting wasn’t for him
when he was unable to cry on cue.  Budget Challenge  Onishi and Ueki face more competition from low-cost
carriers both domestically and from overseas.  ANA affiliate Peach Aviation Ltd. began flying from Osaka,
in western Japan, in March, while AirAsia Japan Co., owned by
ANA and  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , started services last month. Jetstar Japan
Co., partly owned by JAL, entered the fray in July.  Singapore Airlines’ long-haul discount carrier, Scoot, will
begin flights to Japan next year.  “It’s not going to be easy to continue to make big
profits,” said Merner. “It’s a very tough business. If they
lose momentum it all falls back.”  After descending from the crash site, Onishi laid a single
white flower at the foot of the memorial to the victims. Several
hundred relatives lit candles around the two triangular gray
stone blocks in the village of Ueno, about three hours by car
north of Tokyo.  JAL executives make the journey as a reminder of the
importance of safety. For Onishi, who said he visits the site
several times each year, there are wider implications too.  “We need to pay extra special attention to the lessons of
the past,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  