-- Japan’s First New-Vehicle Niche in 50 Years Imitates Cart: Cars
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-09-14T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/japan-s-first-new-vehicle-niche-in-50-years-imitates-cart-cars.html
It’s smaller than a golf cart, runs
on electricity and will probably soon be road-legal. The
ultracompact is set to be Japan’s first new vehicle niche in 50
years and an opportunity for the likes of Yoshiro Sugimoto.  Town EV, Sugimoto’s startup, plans to have the 800,000 yen
($10,000) ZEVe ultracompact on the market in Japan next year.  “This is a once-in-a-lifetime chance,” said Sugimoto, 62,
a former  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  veteran of 16 years who became
fascinated by ultracompacts and pooled 20 million yen of his own
and colleagues’ cash for the quest to build the smallest road-
legal cars.  The country’s largest automakers are keeping an eye on
Sugimoto and on the generation of ultracompact entrepreneurs.
The carmakers and startups, including Town EV, lobbied the
government to approve the ultracompact category, and the
transport ministry has said it intends to take that step as
early as next month.  Ultracompact demand will be “at least 70,000 units a
year” after the rules are changed to allow them on the road,
said Takeshi Matsunaga, who is in charge of electric car
projects at  Toyota Auto Body Co. , a division of the automaker.
The company is waiting for approval of the new rules before
announcing its plans for ultracompacts, Matsunaga said.  Post-Toyota  Sugimoto started Town EV after his Toyota career, which
included years as an assistant to then-President Shoichiro Toyoda, who rolled out the Lexus brand and started building cars
in the U.S. in the 1980s. Town EV is among startups including
Kobot Co. and one founded by ex-Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd.
engineers to make and sell the tiny, electric-powered four-
wheelers in  Japan .  To hold down costs, Sugimoto is building the ZEVe at
fabrication shops run by subcontractors until sales reach a
scale to warrant a full assembly line.  Government interest in the new category is intended partly
to make it easier for older Japanese living in areas without
convenient bus services to get around. People who aren’t
comfortable riding a scooter would have a new transportation
option with ultracompacts.  “There is interest in ultracompacts because many
prefectures in Japan are aging fast,” Akihiko Hoshi, spokesman
for the transport ministry, said by phone.  Older Drivers  Under the proposal that carmakers expect to be approved by
the ministry, ultracompacts could be driven on selected
roadways.  To promote sales, the government will offer subsidies to
companies and local governments that purchase ultracompacts, the
Nikkei newspaper reported Aug. 15. The payment would amount to
half the vehicle’s purchase price for as many as 3,000 vehicles
over three years, according to the report.  Toyota and rivals including  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  Suzuki Motor
Corp. (7269) ,  Daihatsu Motor Co. (7262)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  have introduced
prototype ultracompacts at auto shows, while announcing no plans
to sell the cars in Japan.  “We are quite interested in the program and research and
development is under way,” Honda President Takanobu Ito told
reporters in June. “I believe demand will be created when you
have the products on the market.”  Yoshiaki Kawano, an analyst at IHS Automotive in  Tokyo ,
agrees. “There will be a market if they are priced below
700,000 yen,” Kawano said.  ‘Easy to Crush’  The cars face some obstacles, including safety.  “Ultracompacts look easy to crush,” said Ikuo Doi, a 73-
year-old in Ayabe city, Kyoto Prefecture, who drives a car.
“And it is very inconvenient, as these cars can’t carry many
farming implements or tools.”  The government is expected to approve the vehicle category
because slow speeds and light weight mean they are less of a
danger to other vehicles or pedestrians, said Sugimoto.  Ultracompacts are already road-legal in many European
countries and parts of  Asia , where they tend to be regulated as
motorcycles, Sugimoto said.  Europe  has a class of low-power cars known as moped autos.
In  Germany , they are defined as light -- less than 350 kilograms
-- and have a top speed of 45 kilometers per hour (28 miles per
hour), engine no larger than 50 cubic centimeters and no more
than 5.4 horsepower.  U.K.-based Peel Engineering Ltd. has started selling two
three-wheeled models that are road-legal in the U.S., including
the P50, a $16,000, 49 cubic centimeters one-seater that’s also
available with an electric motor, according to the company’s
 website .  One-Seater  Sugimoto’s aluminum-framed ZEVe one-seater prototype looks
like a narrow  golf-cart  with a windshield, canopy, hatchback-
style trunk and no side windows or doors and is designed to run
as much as 50 kilometers (31 miles) when fully charged at a top
speed of 50 kilometers per hour.  Sugimoto’s revenue target for fiscal year 2015 is 3 billion
yen, which includes sales from converting ordinary minicars into
electric vehicles, he said. Unit sales for the ZEVe should reach
1,000 units that year, and prices may decline to as low as
600,000 yen per vehicle as volumes rise, he said.  Former Fuji Heavy Industries engineer Shuji Matsumura is
developing ultracompacts at Japan’s Gunma University because he
believes the vehicles will help make transportation more
efficient, he said.  “There is a lot of waste in our current transportation
system -- for example, one man driving a four-seat car,” said
Matsumura, who helped build Subaru cars at  Fuji Heavy. (7270) 
Ultracompacts will help cut energy consumption, he said.  At the university, Matsumura heads a team of six Fuji Heavy
veterans developing prototype electric vehicles. The group is
focusing on lowering production costs and may have an
ultracompact for sale in as little as two years, he said.  Offshore Assembly  Kobot, a Fukuoka, Japan-based unit of the textiles,
machinery and drugmaker Kowa Co., is developing a two-seat
ultracompact electric and plans to build 20 units by March,
2013. The carmaker has only 12 employees and will assemble the
cars in  China  or the  Philippines  to hold down costs, Kazuhiro
Kachi, a Tokyo-based spokesman for the company, said by phone.  Nissan parent  Renault SA (RNO)  sells a two-seater called Twizy in
Europe, targeting city dwellers for a price of 6,990 euros
(690,000 yen), excluding the battery. Nissan has tested a
concept electric vehicle based on Twizy, while the carmaker
hasn’t announced plans to introduce it in Japan.  “It will be great to increase the options for customers,”
said Toshitake Inoshita, a spokesman for the Yokohama, Japan-
based company. He declined to comment on future plans for the
vehicle in Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  