-- Japan Sees 20% Drop in China Tourism as Islands Row Heats Up
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-09-14T03:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/japan-fears-20-drop-in-china-tourists-as-islands-spat-heats-up.html
Chinese visitor numbers to  Japan 
may decline as much as 20 percent because of a dispute over
uninhabited islands in the  East China Sea , according to the
Japan National Tourism Organization.  “We are very worried,” Mamoru Kobori, the tourism
agency’s overseas marketing manager, said by phone yesterday.
“There will surely be an impact on the numbers and the only
question is how much -- 10 percent or 20 percent is possible.”  A slump in demand from its second-biggest overseas market
would add to the difficulties facing Japan’s tourism industry as
it tries to recovery from last year’s tsunami and nuclear-power
crisis.  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , owner of China’s biggest
travel portal, has halted Japan promotions ahead of a weeklong
Chinese holiday starting Oct. 1, while travel agents are
canceling trips.  “We want to express our anger toward the Japanese
government, even though we have to sacrifice some commercial
interest,” said Stephanie Liu, marketing manager at  China 
Comfort Travel Group Co.’s Sichuan province unit. “Almost all
of our customers understand the situation.”  Canceled Trips  China Comfort , which operates more than 5,000 travel agents
nationwide, has canceled all of its Japan trips and is refunding
customers. Shanghai Spring International Travel Service Co.,
parent of China’s biggest low-cost carrier, has seen a 40
percent drop in Japan bookings, according to Zhang Wu’an, a
spokesman for the airline unit. New York-listed Ctrip said it
has stopped advertising Japan holidays in newspapers, by e-mail
and on its home page.  Chinese visitor numbers to Japan declined 16 percent from a
year earlier in the weeks after a collision between a Chinese
fishing vessel and a Japanese coastguard ship in 2010, according
to the tourism agency’s Kobori.  The dispute over the islands, known as Senkaku in Japanese
and Diaoyu in Chinese, has escalated this week after the
Japanese government moved to nationalize them. Six Chinese
government ships have entered what Japan sees as its territorial
waters close to the islands, Japan’s coast guard said today.  Hundreds of people protested outside the Japanese embassy
in Beijing yesterday, according to state-run Xinhua News Agency.
Japan’s embassy in  Shanghai  has also issued a safety warning to
its citizens living in the city, saying there had been at least
five reports Japanese people being attacked.  Trade Impact  China Vice Minister of Commerce Jiang Zengwei said
yesterday Japan’s purchase of the islands will negatively affect
trade between the two countries.  “If Chinese consumers express their views in a rational
way, I think this is their right,” Jiang said according to a
ministry  transcript . “We hope Japan can treat Sino-Japanese
relations in a proper way and create a good environment for
bilateral trade.”  Honda Motor Co. said a person burned a Civic compact in
front of one of its dealerships in Shanghai yesterday. Nissan
Motor Co. has pared marketing events in China because of violent
anti-Japanese demonstrations prompted by the islands dispute,
Chief Operating Officer Toshiyuki Shiga said Sept. 6. Chief
Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said in an interview yesterday
there hasn’t been a significant impact on the Japanese
carmaker’s sales.  China-Japan Tourism  Mainland Chinese visits to Japan surged 72 percent through
July from a year earlier to 947,600, trailing only  South Korea ,
according to the Japan tourism board’s data. That compares with
868,924 in January to July 2010.  Japan’s total  visitor numbers  have risen 44 percent this
year to 4.9 million. Visits plunged 28 percent last year after
the March earthquake and tsunami crippled a nuclear-power plant
prompting fears about radiation leaks and causing power
shortages that are still continuing. The country got 5.1 million
visitors in the first seven months of 2010.  Chinese visits to Japan have jumped because of rising
wealth and because Japan cut prices and eased visa requirements
after the earthquake last year, said Wang Langqi, a Beijing-
based analyst with Founder Securities Co.  “If the tension quickly cools down, demand should
rebounded soon,” he said. “Of course, it could develop into a
serious issue if the dispute escalates further.”  Safety Concerns  The government hasn’t issued official advice against travel
to Japan, said Paul Zhang, manager of the Japan travel division
at  Shanghai Jinjiang International Travel Co. (900929) , which hasn’t
canceled any trips. The company has received calls from
customers asking whether their itineraries will be changed.  “They are worried if they will still be welcome in Japan
and if it’s safe to travel,” he said. Most Chinese
holidaymakers go overseas in organized tour groups.  Takafumi Otsubo, president of Tourism Culture Labo, which
advises Japanese travel companies, said he had heard of a number
of hotels and inns that had had cancellations from Chinese
tourists.  “It’s a shame that tourism is often used as a political
tool,” he said. “So many people in China and Japan who work in
the industry are suffering.”  Companies organizing trips for Japanese tourists have so
far seen little impact on bookings to China, the most popular
overseas holiday destination in the first seven months of the
year. The number of trips rose 10 percent to 2.2 million in the
period, according to  data  compiled by Japan Tourism Marketing Co.
Second-ranked Korea posted a 27 percent jump to 2.1 million.  JTB Corp., Japan’s biggest travel agency, didn’t see any
drop in business to China through August because of the islands
dispute, said Motohisa Tachikawa, a spokesman. Japan Airlines Co.
has had only “a small number of cancellations,” said Morito
Takeda, a spokesman. The carrier is watching booking levels, he
said.  H.I.S. Co. (9603) , the largest listed travel agency, said there
had been some impact starting late in August.  “Some new customers changed the travel plans or postponed
trips until September or October,” said Manabu Shimizu, the
head of the Tokyo-based company’s corporate planning division.
“We really hope the dispute doesn’t get any bigger.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  