-- Japan’s LDP Advocates Challenging China to Regain Power
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-09-14T05:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/japan-s-ldp-advocates-challenging-china-in-bid-to-regain-power.html
Japan ’s main opposition party will
aim to regain power behind a new leader whose stance on a
territorial dispute could exacerbate tensions with  China .  Four of five lawmakers running in the Sept. 26 election to
head the  Liberal Democratic Party  have vowed to build on islands
also claimed by China. While Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  this
week nationalized the islands, known as Senkaku in Japanese and
Diayou in Chinese, to assert sovereignty, he has no construction
plans and has called for calm from both countries.  The dispute is hurting trade between  Asia ’s two biggest
economies at a time when each is struggling to cope with a
global economic slowdown that is crimping exports. Polls show
the LDP may win parliamentary elections Noda has pledged to call
soon, increasing the chances that its standard-bearer will be
the next prime minister, possibly in a coalition with a new
group led by Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto.  “The LDP candidates are kind of locking themselves into a
position of building some kind of port facilities on the
Senkakus,” said  Gerald Curtis , a professor of Japanese politics
at  Columbia University  in  New York . Doing so “would be a direct
challenge to the Chinese and they would respond,” he said.  The row escalated today when six Chinese government vessels
entered what Japan sees as its territorial waters close to the
islands. Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura described the
development as “extremely regrettable,” and said he “strongly
urged” that the ships leave immediately.  Ishihara Favored  LDP Secretary-General Nobuteru Ishihara, former prime
minister Shinzo Abe, ex-defense chief Shigeru Ishiba and former
foreign minister Nobutaka Machimura, who all favor construction,
will vie with former defense minister Yoshimasa Hayashi to
replace Sadakazu Tanigaki as head of the party in an election
campaign that starts today. Noda’s ruling  Democratic Party  of
Japan also has a leadership election this month that the prime
minister is expected to win.  Ishihara is the favorite to lead the LDP, given his current
position as the party’s No. 2 official and support by faction
leaders, said analysts including Tomoaki Iwai, a professor of
political science at Nihon University in  Tokyo .  “There are a lot of conservatives among the candidates,”
Iwai said. “The LDP has taken a clear conservative stance since
last year, in order to distinguish itself from the DPJ.”  A Sept. 2 Kyodo News poll showed 25.5 percent of the public
favor Ishiba, followed by Ishihara at 19.6 percent and Abe at
17.8 percent.  The survey provided no margin of error. The LDP
race is restricted to party members.  Islands Purchase  Ishihara is the son of Tokyo Governor and China critic
Shintaro Ishihara, whose April announcement that he was seeking
municipal funds to buy the uninhabited islands in the  East China
Sea  set off the latest chapter of the territorial dispute.
Sovereignty over the area gives the holder rights to fishing
grounds as well as oil and natural gas reserves.  Japan on Sept. 11 reached a deal to purchase the islands
from a private Japanese owner for 2.05 billion yen ($26.4
million), prompting outrage from China. Two Chinese patrol boats
were sent into the area and Premier  Wen Jiabao  said China would
make no concessions on the issue.  The controversy has prompted anti-Japanese protests in  Hong
Kong  and Beijing, hurting Japanese companies such as  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201)  doing business in China. The purchase will unavoidably
affect Sino-Japanese trade relations and have a negative impact,
Vice Minister of Commerce Jiang Zengwei said at a press
conference in Beijing yesterday.  Status Quo  Noda’s government has presented the deal as a means of
preserving the status quo, under which landings are not
permitted except by government officials. The LDP candidates
have rejected that premise, saying local fishermen are unable to
take full advantage of rich fishing grounds because they have
nowhere to shelter in case of rough weather.  “We need to raise our level of control over the islands by
building a harbor,” Ishiba said in a Sept. 7 interview. “If
necessary, we should station personnel there.” Machimura said
in a Sept. 10 interview that “it would be good” to build a
port facility there to aid fishermen.  Abe said on Sept. 12 that Japan’s territorial disputes,
including separate rows with  South Korea  and  Russia , were one of
the main reasons he decided to run for the top party post five
years after stepping down as premier, blaming ill health.  “Our beautiful ocean and land are now under threat of
invasion,” he told reporters.  Noda Understanding  “If an Ishiba or an Ishihara or an Abe becomes prime
minister, then whatever understanding Noda might have gotten
from the Chinese about this will be moot,” Columbia’s Curtis
said.  While 60 percent of voters support neither main party, the
LDP’s half century of control until it was ousted by the DPJ in
2009 puts it in a better position to win the most seats in the
lower house of parliament than Hashimoto’s newly formed Japan
Restoration Party, said analysts including  Jeff Kingston , head
of Asian studies at the Tokyo campus of  Temple University .  Hashimoto’s party has 23.8 percent support, according to a
Sankei FNN poll published on Sept. 4. The LDP had 21.7 percent
support and the DPJ had 17.4 percent in the survey, which gave
no margin of error.  “The LDP has the history and a lot of money,” Kingston
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  