-- Japan Stocks Advance Before Fed Meeting; Utilities Climb
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-09-13T07:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/japan-stocks-drops-before-fed-meeting-ends.html
Japanese  stocks  advanced, with the
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average closing at a two-week high, as
investors awaited the end of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting.
Shippers led gains on prospects for higher rates to Europe.  Nippon Yusen K.K.,  Japan ’s top shipping line by sales,
jumped 4.5 percent. Kansai Electric Power Co. gained on a report
the utility is seeking a household rate hike.  TDK Corp. (6762) , a
battery supplier to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , climbed 3.7 percent after the
iPhone 5 was unveiled.  Itochu Corp. (8001)  added 0.8 percent after the
trading company said it was in talks to buy Dole Food Co.’s
packaged-foods business and a unit in  Asia .  The Nikkei 225 rose 0.4 percent to 8,995.15 at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo, with trading volume 16 percent below the 30-day
average as investors wait on signs of a third round of asset
purchases from the Fed. The broader  Topix Index (TPX)  gained 0.3
percent to 744.23, after falling as much as 0.4 percent earlier.  “Markets are slightly nervous in anticipation of
quantitative easing,” Lim Say Boon, chief investment officer at
DBS Private Bank, said on Bloomberg Television in  Singapore .
“If we get QE3 then the markets, beyond this period of
nervousness, are likely to rally even further.”  The Topix dropped 15 percent from this year’s peak on March
27 through yesterday on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is
deepening and as growth slows in China and the U.S. The gauge
trades at 0.9 times book value, compared with 2.2 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 1.5 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. A number below one means companies can be bought for less
than the value of their assets.  Today is the last trading day for the Nikkei 225 futures
and options contracts for September delivery before their prices
get fixed tomorrow in a settlement known as the special
quotation.  Fed Stimulus  Futures on the  S&P 500  slid 0.2 percent today. The gauge
rose 0.2 percent yesterday in  New York  after Germany’s high
court cleared the way for Europe’s bailout fund and on investor
optimism for additional stimulus measures from the Fed.  The U.S. central bank will probably announce a third round
of bond purchases, according to almost two-thirds of economists
in a Bloomberg survey. The central bank will also likely commit
to hold  interest rates  close to zero into 2015, the survey
showed.  Apple suppliers gained after the company unveiled the
iPhone 5 yesterday. The new version boasts a bigger screen,
faster processor and access to speedier wireless networks, an
overhaul aimed at gaining share in the $219.1 billion smartphone
market.  iPhone Suppliers  TDK gained 3.7 percent to 3,075 yen. Murata Manufacturing
Co., which supplies capacitors for Apple’s smartphone, added 2.9
percent to 4,145.  “Before the iPhone 5 was introduced, investors were
worried that consumers wouldn’t trade up to the new version,”
said Seiichiro Iwamoto, who helps oversee about $35 billion at
Mizuho Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “But confidence is
growing because it’s a good-looking product, and this is
boosting companies that supply parts to Apple,”  Shipping lines gained the most among the Topix’s 33
industry groups after Orient Overseas International Ltd. said it
will boost North Europe-Asia charges by $200 per container.  Nippon Yusen  soared 4.5 percent to 140 yen. Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines Ltd. surged 6.7 percent to 192 yen. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha
Ltd climbed 6.3 percent to 101 yen.  The news “may prompt investors to buy back shippers’
shares as they had been oversold,” said Yusuke Aramaki, an
analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “I
think the container market may become firm but the Baltic Dry
may keep slumping.”  Shipping Stocks  Shipping lines were the biggest decliners on the Topix over
the past 12 months. The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a gauge of shipping
costs, fell for an eleventh day, near the lowest level since
July 1986 on a monthly basis  Utilities gained on  Kansai Electric ’s plans to seek
government approval to raise household power rates more than 10
percent, according to a Yomiuri newspaper report that cited no
sources.  Kansai Electric surged 9.3 percent to 543 yen. Kyushu
Electric Power Co. gained 9.5 percent to 509 yen.  Itochu rose 0.8 percent to 806 yen after the third-largest
trading house in Japan said it was negotiating to buy Dole
Food’s global processed food unit as well as its fruit and
vegetable business in Asia. Itochu expects to complete the deal
around November, the Tokyo-based company said today in a
statement. The deal may be worth $1.7 billion, the Nikkei
newspaper reported today without citing anyone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  