-- Japan Air Installs Full-Flat Business Seats in Service Revamp
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-09-13T04:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/japan-air-installs-full-flat-business-seats-in-service-revamp.html
Japan Airlines Co., set to debut on
the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange next week after an $8.5 billion initial
public offering, will install full-flat business class seats for
the first time in a revamp of international services.  JAL, which made a record  profit  last fiscal year, will use
new business, first-class, economy and premium economy seats on
its international flights between London and Tokyo in January,
gradually expanding to other European cities and  New York , the
carrier said in a statement in Tokyo today.  The airline, which will relist on Sept. 19 , is adding
planes and new routes as it expands international services
following a government-backed restructuring under which it shed
more than a third of its  jobs  and scrapped a quarter of its
fleet after losing money three years out of four.  “We felt we were lagging behind other carriers where full-
flat seats are standard,” Jun Kato, executive officer in charge
of marketing, said in an interview in Tokyo today. “This should
help put us ahead and help boost demand.” The revamp of all
classes of seats is the first in about 10 years, Kato said.  The state-backed owner of JAL is selling 663 billion yen
($8.5 billion) of shares and has received orders for all stock
on offer, according to two people familiar with the situation.  JAL posted a record profit of 187 billion yen in the fiscal
year ended March. The carrier benefited from a 35 billion yen
tax break, saved about 46 billion yen from lower depreciation
costs following  asset  writedowns and about 5 billion yen in
interest payments because of debt forgiveness, according to a
transport ministry paper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  