-- Jordan Says There’s ‘No Alternative’ to Franc Ceiling
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-09-13T13:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/jordan-says-there-s-no-alternative-to-franc-ceiling.html
Swiss central bank Chairman Thomas Jordan said there’s currently no alternative to the franc
ceiling, with policy makers ready to intervene “at any time.”  “It’s not just speculators who are to blame for the strong
franc,” Jordan told Swiss  state radio DRS1  in an interview
today after the  Swiss National Bank  kept the franc cap at 1.20
versus the euro. “We have a huge insecurity among market
participants about the future of the euro. That forces us to be
active around the clock and conduct a policy that’s making it
totally clear to markets that we’ll impose” the measure “under
any circumstances,” he said.  The SNB’s foreign-currency reserves increased 64 percent to
418 billion francs ($446 billion) in the year through August as
policy makers stepped up euro purchases to stave off attacks
spurred by the region’s turmoil. Jordan, who took over the SNB’s
helm in April, said the central bank “can’t have doubts” in
its policy and any further appreciation of the franc would have
“massive consequences” for the economy.  The Swiss franc, which is seen as a haven in times of
global turmoil and reached near parity with the euro before the
ceiling was introduced on Sept. 6, 2011, traded at 1.2131 versus
the single currency at 2:13 p.m. in Zurich, down 0.3 percent on
the day. Jordan called today’s move an “improvement.”  ‘Sufficiently Strong’  “We say, 1.20 is the limit,” he said. “We say it very
clearly -- this is the limit and you can’t go beyond. We’re
sufficiently strong and will enforce this limit.”  To protect the economy, policy makers have been forced to
pile up foreign-currency holdings amounting to about 73 percent
of gross domestic product. Euros accounted for 60 percent of
total reserves at the end of the second quarter, up from 52
percent in the previous three months, the latest data show.  “If too many people want to buy francs or sell euros -- at
the exact moment of a potential risk of the  exchange rate 
falling below 1.20 -- we buy sufficiently in order to keep it
above 1.20,” Jordan said. The Zurich-based central bank
monitors developments “very closely.”  Pressure on the franc ceiling eased over the past month,
after the  European Central Bank  pledged on Aug. 2 to purchase
government bonds of distressed nations such as Spain and  Italy 
in tandem with  Europe ’s rescue fund to fight the turmoil. The
Swiss franc weakened 0.8 percent last week, after ECB President
 Mario Draghi  outlined details of the bond-purchasing plan.  Jordan, 49, said the ECB decision has given the euro area
an “important instrument” to weather the fiscal crisis. He
cited the reasons for pressure on the Swiss currency as some
investors betting on further gains, companies reducing their
exposure and institutional investors cutting euro holdings.  ‘No Hostage’  “At the moment we introduced this policy, we also had to
expect a need to intervene with large amounts,” Jordan said.
“At this point, you can’t have doubts anymore but have to
intervene decisively. We’re not hostage to our decision but
we’re convinced that it’s the right policy -- at the moment
there is no alternative.”  The BAK Basel economic institute on Sept. 11 forecast the
SNB would keep borrowing costs at zero for “a prolonged period
of time,” with the franc remaining close to 1.20 in 2013.  David Kohl , deputy chief economist at Julius Baer Group Ltd. in
 Frankfurt , said policy makers will have to stay “vigilant.”  Jordan agrees.  “Every time I take a break, I check the franc exchange
rate,” he said. “I’ve become used to checking it in the
morning before I shave.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  