-- JPMorgan Erases Stock Drop Fueled by London Trading Loss
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-09-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/jpmorgan-erases-stock-drop-fueled-by-london-trading-loss.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the lender
that  plunged  as much as 24 percent in the month after disclosing
a multibillion-dollar trading loss, has erased that decline.  The bank’s stock climbed 3.7 percent to $41.40 yesterday in
New York, eclipsing the $40.74 closing price of May 10, when
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  announced what was then a
trading loss of about $2 billion at the chief investment office
in London. The loss this year now stands at $5.8 billion.  The wrong-way bets on derivatives are the focus of an
escalating investigation by a U.S. Senate panel and at least 11
agencies, including the Justice Department and Securities and
Exchange Commission. The stock remains 6.6 percent below the
April 5 close, when Bloomberg News first reported the lender had
amassed an illiquid position on  credit derivatives , and is the
second-worst performer in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   “Though the loss was quite large, it was a loss that was
not systemic to their investment-securities portfolio or their
capital-markets operations,” said  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst at
RBC Capital Markets who rates the shares outperform. “The
bigger picture for the company has and continues to improve.”  JPMorgan slid as much as 10 percent the day after Dimon,
56, disclosed the loss, the most in more than three years, and
closed as low as $31 on June 4. The lender lost $5.8 billion on
the trades during the first six months of this year and has said
it could lose as much as $7.5 billion total while closing out
the position.  At the center of the trading was Bruno Iksil, a French-born
trader in London who ran the credit-derivatives book that
generated the loss. He came to be known as the London Whale
because the size of his bets grew so large.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  