-- Kirkland, Latham, Davis, Freshfields: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/kirkland-latham-davis-freshfields-business-of-law.html
Michael C. Keats, a former managing
director in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s legal department, joined
law firm Kirkland & Ellis LLP as a litigation partner this week.  Keats, 43, was associate general counsel in the litigation
and regulatory proceedings group at Goldman Sachs, which he
joined in 2007, according to a  statement  on the law firm’s
 website . He was previously a securities and global enforcement
partner in O’Melveny & Myers LLP’s New York office.  “His experience at Goldman Sachs during a period of
extraordinary change and enforcement activity on  Wall Street 
will be a tremendous asset to our clients,” Jeffrey C. Hammes,
chairman of Kirkland’s global management executive committee,
said in the statement.  Goldman Sachs, the most profitable securities firm in Wall
Street history before converting to a bank in 2008, paid $550
million last year to settle a fraud accusation from the
Securities and Exchange Commission and was accused by the U.S.
Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of misleading
clients. The  Justice Department  said last month that it wouldn’t
pursue criminal charges against New York-based Goldman Sachs
related to information uncovered by the Senate subcommittee.  Latham Former M&A Veteran Joins Communications Firm  Charles Nathan, former Latham & Watkins LLP corporate
governance task force and global mergers and acquisition
practice co-chairman, has joined the strategic communications
firm RLM Finsbury, as a partner and senior adviser.  At Latham, Nathan worked on large domestic and global
mergers and acquisitions transactions including, Roche’s $45
billion acquisition of the public’s minority stake in Genentech,
InBev’s $52 billion acquisition of Anheuser-Busch and
LiveNation’s $2.5 billion merger of equals with Ticketmaster
Entertainment.  “Chuck offers strong judgment, shrewd tactical insights,
and a distinctive ability to develop communications strategies
that resonate with shareholders and other key audiences, while
taking into account the relevant legal and regulatory
considerations which can impact outcomes,” Walter Montgomery,
CEO of RLM Finsbury, said in a statement.  American Stock Exchange CEO Joins Richardson & Patel  Richardson & Patel LLP announced that the former Chairman
and CEO of the American Stock Exchange, Neal Wolkoff, will join
the firm as of counsel.  Wolkoff, prior to his tenure at Amex, was chief operating
officer at the Nymex.  “It is a remarkable honor to have someone of his stature
join our firm and we look forward to his substantive
contributions to our clients as the  capital markets  continue
facing constant regulatory change through Dodd-Frank and the
JOBS Act,” managing partner Nimish Patel said in a statement.  Richardson & Patel focuses on corporate & securities law,
mergers & acquisitions, and business, securities & employment
litigation. The firm has offices in Los Angeles, New York and
Princeton, New Jersey.  White & Case Hires Stockholm Mergers and Acquisitions Partner  White & Case LLP has hired global mergers and acquisitions
partner Darragh Byrne in the firm’s Stockholm office.  Byrne is dual-qualified in English and Swedish law and
joins the firm from Linklaters LLP, the firm said. His
experience includes working on a variety of mergers and
acquisitions and capital markets transactions for clients both
in the Nordic region and internationally. A senior associate
also joins White & Case’s mergers and acquisitions practice in
Stockholm from Linklaters.  White & Case hired 13 mergers and acquisitions partners
across the firm in 2011. Byrne is the 10th partner to join the
practice area in 2012.  The firm has 38 offices in 26 countries.  News  Ambassador Stevens, Witness Turned Casualty in Libya, Dies at 52  John Christopher Stevens, the American ambassador to Libya
killed trying to evacuate the U.S. consulate in Benghazi during
an attack by Islamist protesters, was a firsthand witness to
Libya’s painful transition to democracy who became one of its
casualties. He was 52.  Known to friends and colleagues as Chris, the California
native was an Arabic-speaking, 21-year veteran of the State
Department who had postings in Damascus, Cairo and other Middle
Eastern locales before his first stint in Libya from 2007 to
2009.  Stevens received a law degree from the  University of
California ’s Hastings College of the Law in San Francisco in
1989 and worked as an international trade lawyer before joining
the Foreign Service in 1991.  Stevens, the No. 2 diplomat in Tripoli when  Muammar Qaddafi 
was still in power, went to Benghazi in 2011 as the eyes and
ears for policy makers trying to gauge how to respond to the
rebellion and avert a massacre in that city by Qaddafi forces.
He was promoted to ambassador after the dictator was killed by
rebels, and led the U.S. post there at the height of the
revolution.  “With characteristic skill, courage and resolve, he built
partnerships with Libyan revolutionaries and helped them as they
planned to build a new Libya,” President  Barack Obama  said
yesterday in the Rose Garden of the White House.  Stevens’ death comes four months after he was sworn in and
dispatched to the most challenging assignment of his career:
navigating the aftermath of Qaddafi in a divided country with no
constitution or rule of law. Tribal rivalries have pitted
regional militias against one another, and weapons made their
way across borders, falling into the hands of insurgents.  For more, click here.  Deals  Morgan Stanley Prevails as MSSB Value Set at $13.5 Billion  Morgan Stanley (MS)  agreed to buy the rest of its brokerage
joint venture from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  at a fixed price that values
the entire unit at $13.5 billion -- or about 40 percent less
than Citigroup’s estimate two months ago. Davis Polk Wardwell
LLP is advising Citigroup, while Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz
is providing counsel to Morgan Stanley.  The Davis Polk corporate team includes New York partner
John A. Bick. New York partners Neil Barr and Avishai Shachar
are providing tax advice.  Wachtell Lipton ’s team is led by corporate partners Steven
A. Rosenblum and Karessa L. Cain. Additional partners included
Richard K. Kim on corporate matters and T. Eiko Stange on tax.  Morgan Stanley will pay $1.89 billion for a 14 percent
stake this year and $4.73 billion for the remaining 35 percent
by 2015, New York-based Citigroup said yesterday in a filing.
The lender said it expects to take a $2.9 billion third-quarter
charge, a sum that exceeds the average profit estimate by
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The valuation -- closer to Morgan Stanley’s $9 billion
estimate than Citigroup’s $22 billion -- reflects the venture’s
struggle to boost earnings amid a trading slump and global
economic weakness.  The two banks in 2009 formed the venture, with the most
financial advisers of any brokerage, and Morgan Stanley paid
$2.75 billion for a 51 percent stake and the right to buy the
rest over time. Morgan Stanley agreed to buy the next 15 percent
piece of the brokerage by June and complete the purchase by June
2015.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Freshfields Reopens in Singapore as Southeast Asia Deals Climb  Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, the number two legal
adviser on mergers and acquisitions, reopened in Singapore after
withdrawing in 2007 as deals climb in the Southeast Asia city
state’s region.  “The time is right to open in Singapore,” Stephen Revell,
who heads the firm’s global capital markets practice, said in a
phone interview. “We’ve got a lot of demand from clients to be
here and centering deals in Singapore,” he said.  Revell is jointly heading the new office with Gavin MacLaren, in charge of the energy practice in Asia, and they
plan to have 15 to 20 lawyers by the end of next month.  The return of Freshfields comes as 23 foreign law firms
last month bid for licenses to practice local corporate law in
Singapore as the legal market further opens. Mergers and
acquisitions in the city state rose 26 percent to $36.3 billion
this year while uncertainty over the euro has hampered deal
activity in the 17-nation group.  Revell declined to comment on whether Freshfields has
applied for a local law license. It was licensed to advise on
non-Singapore law from its office in the city as of Sept. 1.  The London-based firm advised Vallar Plc on its $3 billion
investment in Indonesia’s PT  Bumi Resources (BUMI)  and PT Berau Coal
Energy and the $2 billion initial public offering of Malaysia’s
 IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH)  this year. It also advised on the $5.45
billion share sale of  Hutchison Port Holdings Trust (HPHT)  in
Singapore.  Freshfields was the first international  law firm  in
Singapore in 1980 and later established an alliance with local
firm Drew & Napier LLC before ending that and withdrawing in
2007.  Revell said the 2007 decision was due to the global
economic environment, and the reopening reflects the strong
position of Singapore currently.  Singapore opened its legal industry in 2000 by allowing
foreign firms to set up joint ventures. There are 110 foreign
law firms registered in Singapore as of Sept. 1, a 53 percent
increase from July 2007.  This week  Maples and Calder  also announced that it has
opened a Singapore office, the firm’s second Asian office after
 Hong Kong . The Singapore office will be managed by funds
partner, Nick Harrold who is joined by corporate finance
partner, James Burch, and private equity and corporate lawyer,
Tom Katsaros. Harrold and Burch will relocate from the firm’s
Hong Kong office. Katsaros rejoins Maples and Calder, having
previously worked in its Cayman Islands office.  Law Firms Expand in the Middle East and South Africa  In addition to a flurry of activity in Singapore (see
Freshfields and Maples and Calder’s new offices above), two more
law firms announced expansions this week with a new office in
Dubai for Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP and an association in
South Africa for SNR Denton LLP.  Berwin Leighton’s Dubai office is its second in the United
Arab Emirates, after  Abu Dhabi . Real estate partner, Mohammed
Kamal, will head the Dubai office, which will provide legal
services in the areas of real estate, planning and regulatory,
construction, corporate, finance, projects and dispute
resolution.  SNR Denton formed an association with energy law firm
KapdiTwala, based in Cape Town. KapdiTwala specializes in
providing corporate and business advice, as well as
representation in litigation, to clients in the energy sector,
the firm said.  “KapdiTwala is the most highly regarded specialist energy
law practice in South Africa with more than 20 years’ experience
in the energy sector and we are extremely pleased to be entering
into an association with them. This association will provide a
platform of opportunities for black South African lawyers to
specialize and develop careers in the  energy industry ,” Stephen
Shergold, partner and co-head of SNR Denton’s market leading
Energy Department, said in a statement.  Litigation  Sands Lawyer Says He Didn’t Tell Judge About Macau E-Mails  A lawyer for  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  testified that he didn’t
tell the judge presiding over a lawsuit brought by the fired
head of the casino operator’s Chinese unit about e-mails from
Macau that had been reviewed in Las Vegas.  Justin Jones testified on the third day of hearings to
determine whether attorneys for  Sheldon Adelson ’s gaming company
made misrepresentations or weren’t forthright last year with a
Nevada state court judge about the presence of evidence from
Macau that had been shipped to Las Vegas.  Jones was asked by a lawyer for the fired chief executive
officer of  Sands China Ltd. (1928) ,  Steven Jacobs , what action he took
when the parent company’s attorneys told the judge computer
files sought by Jacobs as evidence in his breach-of-contract
case couldn’t be transferred from Macau to Las Vegas.  “I did nothing,” said Jones, who’s no longer involved in
the case.  The casino operators face possible court sanctions for
failing to disclose to the judge they shipped computer files
from Macau to Las Vegas as early as 2010, shortly after Jacobs
was fired and had sued the companies. The company had argued
that a privacy law in Macau prevented them from bringing data to
the U.S.  Jones said he and other lawyers for Las Vegas Sands last
year reviewed some of Jacobs’s e-mails before the company
represented to the judge that documents in Macau had to be
reviewed there by Sands China lawyers and cleared with local
authorities prior to being produced as evidence for the lawsuit
in Nevada.  “I don’t believe there were very many,” Jones said,
referring to the Jacobs e-mails he reviewed.  Stephen Peek, another lawyer for Las Vegas Sands, testified
Sept. 11 that he had disclosed to Jacobs’s previous lawyers last
year that data from Macau was in Las Vegas. He said, under
questioning from Todd Bice, one of Jacobs’s current lawyers,
that he didn’t tell them what exactly the data was or that they
included e-mails from Jacobs.  “I didn’t think it was my obligation to tell him what my
work product was,” Peek said.  Clark County District Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez said
yesterday “there are certain inconsistencies in the spin that
was made to the court.”  She said her focus now was on possible misrepresentations
made to her and that Jacobs’s lawyers may separately pursue
claims that they were deceived.  The case is Jacobs v. Las Vegas Sands, A627691-B, District
Court, Clark County, Nevada (Las Vegas).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 