-- Krawcheck Urges Pay Curb as Complex Banks Make Eyes Bleed
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-09-13T18:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/krawcheck-urges-pay-curb-as-complex-banks-make-eyes-bleed.html
Sallie L. Krawcheck, who ran
wealth-management divisions at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , said risks at complex financial firms could be
better managed by giving executives part of their pay in bonds.  Banks, including her former employers, are trading below
 liquidation value  because investors are struggling to determine
what returns to expect, Krawcheck said today at the Bloomberg
Markets 50 Summit in  New York . The complexity of the firms and
their regulation obscure their value, she said.  “Regulators are fighting complexity with complexity, rule
by rule,” said Krawcheck, 47. “It is so complicated, it makes
you weep blood out of your eyes.”  Wall Street firms have resisted calls to break up by
critics, including former Citigroup Chief Executive Officer
Sanford “Sandy” Weill, who say that they’re too big to manage
and put taxpayers at risk. Banks that survived the global
financial crisis they helped cause became even larger under
government-approved consolidations.  “How do you handle the complexity, break them up?”
Krawcheck said. “All of the things we’re debating are merely a
means to an end,” which is finding a way to cut risk, she said.  Giving employees a combination of bonds and equity will
moderate risks because midlevel managers with a firmer grasp of
risks aren’t unduly encouraged to take bad ones, she said. Top
executives, directors and regulators have a hard time evaluating
risks from their level, she said.  “If you buy a share of equity, you buy it because you want
that management team to take risk and have the stock go up,”
Krawcheck said. Bonds are a “risk-averse instrument, because no
matter how much risk they take, you get 100 cents on the dollar
if you hold it to maturity.”  Compensation should lean more toward bonds as leverage
rises, she said. A return to the separation of retail and
investment banks created by the Depression-era  Glass-Steagall
Act  isn’t realistic because even changes in money-market mutual
fund regulations have proven difficult, Krawcheck said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  