-- Neiman Marcus to Macy’s Trend Into China as Far as Web: Retail
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-09-13T21:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/neiman-marcus-to-macy-s-trend-into-china-as-far-as-web-retail.html
As  Neiman Marcus  Group Inc.
prepares to start selling its wares in China, the U.S. luxury
retailer isn’t opening stores. It’s setting up shop on the Web.  Neiman Marcus,  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and Milly, the women’s clothier,
are all tiptoeing into China -- striking partnerships with local
Web entrepreneurs because opening stores there is expensive and
complicated.  The moves coincide with slowing economic growth in China
that has prompted shoppers there to pull back. Still, Neiman
Marcus is making a long-term bet on the world’s most populous
consumer market, Chief Executive Officer Karen Katz said in an
interview.  “We believe the Chinese economy, like every economy, is
going to have ups and downs,” Katz said. “We know that long-
term the potential of the luxury consumer is tremendous. There
is still quite a big opportunity there.”  Even with the slowdown, online sales will triple to more
than $360 billion by 2015, predicts  Boston Consulting Group . The
number of  Internet users  will grow to 700 million from 500
million, it said. China’s luxury market will grow by as much as
22 percent this year, by far the fastest rate of any region,
according to Bain & Co., also a consulting company.  The deals with local companies mean Macy’s and Neiman
Marcus can learn more about Chinese shoppers’ buying habits
before deciding whether and how to scale up. The strategy is
also cost effective. Macy’s is spending about $15 million on its
China Web venture; by contrast it is lavishing $400 million on a
renovation of its  New York  flagship store.  Spending Appetite  “It’s a very clever way of dipping their toe in the
water,” said Robert Burke, whose namesake consulting firm is
based in New York. “What’s driving it is the sheer numbers. The
number of consumers and their appetite to spend is going to be
highly attractive to retailers and brands.”  In its first international foray, Neiman Marcus, owned by
 Warburg Pincus  LLC and TPG Capital, is developing a new namesake
e-commerce website with Hong Kong-based Glamour Sales Holding.
Neiman Marcus aims to debut the site by the end of 2012, before
Chinese New Year, Ginger Reeder, a spokeswoman said today. The
Dallas-based retailer has invested $29.4 million in the closely
held Chinese company.  Macy’s, the second-largest U.S. department-store chain,
will begin selling an assortment of its moderately priced I.N.C.
apparel on www.omei.com next spring. It made a $15 million
equity investment in the parent VIPStore Co.  Learn First  “International expansion is of long-term interest to us,”
 Jim Sluzewski , a spokesman for Cincinnati-based Macy’s, said in
an e-mail. “But we want to learn as much as we can before
making substantive decisions about the future.”  Shangpin.com, a website that says it sells authorized,
current-season international designer and contemporary goods at
full price, debuted this month. Milly and Tracy Reese, whose
fashions are worn by  Michelle Obama , are among 80 brands selling
their goods through the site, whose Mandarin name means
“fashion” and “quality.”  Sensing opportunity, private-equity firms are investing in
Chinese e-commerce. Shangpin has attracted $60 million in
capital from international investors including Walt Disney Co.-
backed Steamboat Ventures. Warburg Pincus and KPCB China
invested $120 million in fashion e-tailer www.xiu.com last year.  These Web-only ventures face several barriers. Brand
recognition remains low in China, while shoppers prefer to see
the actual products and are leery of receiving  counterfeit
goods , Burke said. They also are reluctant to spend large sums
online, said Claire Chung, a vice president for global business
development for Shangpin. The country’s average online
transaction size is the equivalent of $31, she said.  Educate Consumer  “We are going to have a lot of work to do to educate the
consumer about Neiman Marcus,” said Katz, 55. “What is
important is this message of history, heritage and authenticity
because they don’t know our brand.”  To that end, the Neiman Marcus site will work to be a kind
of personal shopping guide.  Milly NY CEO Andy Oshrin said he had been reluctant to
enter the Chinese market before he found the right partner in
Shangpin. The e-commerce approach is a better alternative to
building the Milly brand in  China  himself with expensive stores
and marketing, he said. Online sales of Milly’s colorful, print
dresses already tend to outperform those in stores, he said.  “It was a way to enter China strategically,” Oshrin said.  China has its own tastes and quirks. Shoppers prefer
washable clothing because dry cleaning is less available, said
Winnie Foon, a Shangpin vice president for global merchandising.  Mix Match  There is greater demand for medium sizes in the northern
part of the country, and for small and extra-small in the south.
Chinese women love dresses because they don’t require the mixing
and matching skills that separate skirts, blouses and slacks do.
They traditionally have worn fine jewelry, and are just
discovering how to wear fashion jewelry, Foon said.  Www.neimanmarcus.cn will offer full-price, current-season
fashions specifically pitched to the Chinese luxury customer by
a Shanghai-based chief merchant, Katz said. Because Chinese men
are avid luxury consumers, Neiman Marcus’s Chinese Web store
will carry a larger assortment of men’s merchandise than the
U.S. site. Ditto for shoes and handbags.  While Chinese consumers have been interested in merchandise
from well-known brands with logos, they’re learning to be more
sophisticated, more “in-the-know,” Katz said.  “That shift really plays into where our strengths are,”
she said. “We are great editors of product.”  Free Shipping  Shangpin, which is hiring stylists who can provide fashion
advice on the phone, is offering free shipping within two days.
In major locations, a courier will wait for the customer to try
on the items and will take them back if they don’t suit.  “We now have a new generation of Chinese women, of
professional women,” Foon said. They are “looking for clothes
for the office, for the weekend.”  Designer labels  Jimmy Choo ,  Alexander McQueen  and Brunello
Cucinelli have signed on to the Neiman Marcus site. They’ll ship
their merchandise directly to a warehouse in  Shanghai , which
will then distribute it to the online customer, Katz said.  It will be difficult for Chinese e-commerce ventures to
replicate the  customer service  that American online shoppers
enjoy, including quick delivery to remote locations, and easy
returns, said Michael Appel, a director at AlixPartners LLP, a
consulting company in New York.  “There is the whole logistical issue,” Appel said.
“China is a very big place.”  Still, the Web ventures may benefit from the cooling
economy, Appel said. Shoppers who’ve developed a taste for
 luxury goods  may be less likely to go on shopping sprees to
foreign or Chinese cities and will shop online instead, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  