-- Nestle Sees 20% China Growth in This Year as Wages Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-13T08:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/nestle-sees-20-china-growth-in-this-year-as-wages-rise.html
Nestle (NESN)  SA, the world’s largest food
company, said  China  sales will probably grow about 20 percent
this year because of rising wages and the government’s policy to
boost local consumption.  The slowing growth of  Asia ’s biggest economy hasn’t
affected the local operations of the Vevey, Switzerland-based
company, which has seen expansion in most of its businesses,
including dairy products and coffee, Greater China Chairman
Roland Decorvet said in an interview today. Nestle’s China sales
increased by more than 20 percent last year and will grow by a
double-digit percentage in 2013, he said.  “There are a lot of initiatives done by the government to
promote the local economy, domestic economy and local
consumption,” said Decorvet, who was attending the  World
Economic Forum  in Tianjin. “Wage inflation means more
purchasing power.”  Nestle bought 60 percent stakes in Hsu Fu Chi International
Ltd., a Chinese snack and candy maker, and Yinlu Foods Group
last year to expand in the market. The company said Feb. 16 its
sales in China were approaching 5 billion Swiss francs ($5.3
billion).  Increasing Investment  The Chinese government is trying to increase domestic
consumption as  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis and a slowing
recovery in the U.S. reduce export demand. China’s  growth 
expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier,
the slowest pace in three years.  Decorvet said he expects “double digit” growth in China
next year.  Nestle, which makes Nescafe instant coffee, Kit Kat candy
bars and Polo mints, has no plans to slow down its investment in
the world’s most populous country.  “We are increasing our investments in every single
category,” the executive said. Chinese consumers on average
drink four cups of coffee each year, while the figure is 150 in
 Hong Kong , 400 in  Japan  and 600 in the U.S., he said. “So we
can build dozens of more factories over the next decades.”  Nestle shares fell 0.1 percent to 58.35 Swiss francs as of
10:43 a.m. in Zurich.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  