-- Nevada Desert Drowning as Underwater Loans Hurt Schools, Police
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-09-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/nevada-desert-drowning-as-underwater-loans-hurt-schools-police.html
Tamara Harris and her neighbors are
gambling that lenders won’t foreclose on their Spanish-style
homes in the  Las Vegas  neighborhood of Southern Highlands.  Harris, 38, stopped paying her mortgage three years ago
after her accounting business lost its biggest client and her
home’s value plummeted 52 percent. Some neighbors are also
delinquent on their mortgages.  “There are so many people like me who aren’t paying their
mortgage so they can buy groceries and gas,” said Harris, who
was rejected for loan modification programs. “It’s creating
this whole false economy.”  As the nation emerges from the worst housing crisis since
the Great Depression,  Nevada  remains the only state in which the
total value of single-family homes is less than the amount owed
on them, according to  second-quarter statistics  released
yesterday by  CoreLogic (CLGX) , a  Santa Ana , California-based data
provider.  A 57 percent drop in  value  since 2006 trapped two out of
three Las Vegans in homes worth less than they paid and caused a
steep decline in property-tax collections that -- in a state
without income tax -- comprise a third of city and county
budgets.  Multimillion-dollar  property-tax losses  required  Clark
County  probation officers to take over more juvenile offenders,
the county’s school district to deplete its reserves and Reno to
cut police officers. North Las Vegas declared a state of
emergency in June, citing a  37 percent  decline in property-tax
revenue, to an estimated $39 million in 2012 from $62 million in
2009.  Job Losses  Lawmakers say they’re concerned that public-sector job
reductions will contribute to a second wave of foreclosures in
an economy already reeling from the nation’s worst  unemployment
rate . They are working on programs to help homeowners like
Harris.  Other states are also battling high rates of negative
equity. About half of homeowners are underwater in Atlanta,
Phoenix,  Orlando ,  Florida , and Riverside,  California , according
to Seattle-based Zillow’s second-quarter negative-equity  report .  The housing crisis’s impact continues to ripple through the
Nevada economy.  “We’ve never seen the depth of housing decline we’ve seen
in Las Vegas,” said  Mark Fleming , chief economist for
CoreLogic. “A large majority of Vegas’s housing stock was built
during the housing boom and is much more sensitive to negative-
equity risk as opposed to California, where a much larger
segment of the housing stock was built in prior decades.”  Fastest-Growing  Nevada was the fastest-growing state in the country in the
past quarter-century, with more than 6,000 people a month moving
in during the 2000s. That fueled a boom in housing construction
until price appreciation slowed in 2006. Since then,
construction has plunged to 1993 levels, with 75,000 jobs lost
over five years, according to  Colliers International , a Seattle-
based real-estate broker.  “You really can’t fix the economy until you fix housing,”
said Terry Johnson, director of Nevada’s  Department of Business
& Industry . “If you are a business person, you want to know if
there will continue to be demand for goods and services. If
purchasing power is being curtailed by negative equity, you
think about that.”  Homebuilders think the inventory of existing homes is being
suppressed by a law enacted last year that requires banks to
present the original deeds of trust before starting
foreclosures, said  John Oceguera , the Nevada State Assembly
speaker and a Congressional candidate.  Falling Foreclosures  Since  Assembly Bill 284  took effect in October,
foreclosures have plunged.  July ’s figures were 71 percent below
a year earlier, to 2,827, according to  Irvine , California-based
RealtyTrac Inc., a foreclosure-data provider.  “A lot of contractors and developers are uneasy about
putting new product on the market -- they think there are 40,000
to 50,000 houses out there to be foreclosed upon,” said
Oceguera, who said his own home is worth half what he paid.  Lawmakers and banks need to discuss a program that would
reduce the principal homeowners like Harris owe on underwater
mortgages in exchange for the lending institution receiving part
of the profit when a house sells, he said.  Nevada’s stagnant housing market precipitated a 33 percent
decline in property-tax collections since fiscal 2009 in  Clark
County , which covers an area the size of  New Jersey  and includes
Las Vegas and about 74 percent of the state’s population. The
decrease prompted county commissioners to cut 2,000 positions
from an 8,505-person workforce.  Empty Offices  “If you were to walk through the building you would see
office after office after office that’s empty,” said  Susan
Brager , the commission’s chairman, who also owns a home that she
says is worth half of what she paid for it. “It creates a
cycle. The more people who are laid off, the more homes go into
foreclosure, and the more people don’t buy dishwashers and
cars.”  The county’s probation officers are now handling as many as
120 juvenile offenders apiece, said Brager. “They can’t work
like that,” she said.  A 45 percent decline in the assessed value of single-family
homes has required the  Clark County School District  -- the
nation’s fifth-largest -- to cut $500 million from its budget in
four years, said Jeff Weiler, the district’s chief financial
officer.  A subsequent drop in property-tax revenue left the district
without enough to build new schools and to maintain its 357
campuses, Weiler said.  Officials waived a requirement that 2 percent of the
general fund be set aside for emergencies, so they could spend
district’s reserves.  ‘Unheard Of’  “We’re down to 1 percent, and that’s pretty unheard of in
government -- that’s $20 million on a $2 billion budget,”
Weiler said. “It’s like tightening a rubber band. Eventually
it’s going to snap, and we’re pretty close to that.”  The district fired about 1,000 employees this year,
including as many as 600 teachers, increasing class sizes.  In  Reno , declining property taxes required the police
department to cut its force 31.5 percent, after its budget
shrank 15 percent from fiscal 2009, said Deputy Chief Tom
Robinson.  “We say we were fat, dumb and happy before and now we’re
lean, efficient and trim,” he said. The cuts prompted a focus
on crime prevention, sending officers to areas with high levels
of calls for assistance, to offer social services. The move
reduced the call volume in some neighborhoods by 60 percent, he
said.  Restructure Mortgages  To help homeowners like Harris, officials are working on a
proposal that would allow the state to acquire and restructure
mortgages by issuing bonds backed by private investors, said
Johnson, director of the state’s Building & Industry Department.  Johnson said among his biggest concerns is the rate of
delinquency among underwater homeowners. One in six Las Vegas
mortgage holders is 30 days or more past due, according to a
July report from  SalesTraq , a Las Vegas-based provider of
housing research.  Andrea Ortega, 31, is one of them. After her husband lost
several jobs, the couple, who live down the street from Harris,
fell $30,000 behind on their mortgage on a home they said is
worth about half what they paid for it in 2008.  They’ve been rejected for loan-modification programs and
their lender won’t accept monthly payments -- which they can now
afford -- until they pay off the amount they are in arrears,
Ortega said. The bank wanted to sell their home for $150,000,
less than the amount owed on it, to another buyer, yet won’t
make them a similar offer, she added.  “We want to stay in our house, we have four children and
we’ve decorated all their rooms personally,” said Ortega.
“It’s really hard to make a home if you don’t know if you’re
going to be out in a month.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  