-- Newron Puts Top Drug at Risk in NeuroNova Deal, Shareholder Says
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-13T12:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/newron-puts-top-drug-at-risk-in-neuronova-deal-shareholder-says.html
Newron Pharmaceuticals SpA (NWRN) ’s
proposed acquisition of NeuroNova AB is too expensive and may
derail the introduction of Newron’s most promising drug,
according to the company’s largest shareholder.  The takeover will distract Newron from ensuring its
experimental treatment for  Parkinson’s disease , safinamide, gets
to market as soon as possible, said Mauro Saponelli, the chief
financial officer of  Zambon Company SpA , which owns 12 percent
of Newron. Zambon and other investors are scheduled to vote on
the deal at a meeting next week.  “A transaction like this is very dangerous for the
development of safinamide,” Saponelli said in an interview in
Milan yesterday. “We have many doubts about at least the timing
of the transaction, and the price. Those were the questions that
we put to the management.”  The replies have been unsatisfying so far, he said.  Zambon, a family-owned maker of pharmaceuticals and
chemicals, paid 20 million euros ($26 million) for the rights to
safinamide and a 9.1 percent stake in Newron in May.  A month later, Bresso, Italy-based Newron proposed to issue
new shares to buy closely-held NeuroNova of  Stockholm  in a deal
that valued the Swedish company at 18 million Swiss francs ($19
million) based on Newron’s share price at the time. It’s now
worth 39 million francs, based on yesterday’s closing price.  The number of shares issued in the deal should be
renegotiated, according to Saponelli.  “We are making a gift of 15 million euros to NeuroNova
shareholders,” he said. “We ask at least to re-evaluate the
price.”  One Product, One Partner  NeuroNova’s owners include HealthCap, a venture capital
fund manager with more than 900 million euros in investments,
and  Investor AB (INVEB) , the holding company of the Wallenberg family
that also controls SEB AB,  Sweden ’s fourth-largest lender. The
two companies, which hold more than 90 percent of NeuroNova
between them, are based in Stockholm.  NeuroNova would leapfrog Zambon to become Newron’s biggest
shareholder with a 31 percent stake. Newron would get two
experimental drugs against Parkinson’s and  Lou Gehrig ’s
diseases, and 16 million euros to help develop safinamide.  “No company in our industry can afford to depend on one
product and one partner,” Stefan Weber, Newron’s chief
executive officer, said in a telephone interview today. “Sooner
or later you will be in trouble.”  Voting No  Still, safinamide remains Newron’s top priority, according
to Weber.  “There is not going to be any reduction of attention and
care for safinamide,” he said. “If we were putting safinamide
at risk, the party that would have the most damage is us.”  The deal will require Newron to invest 19 million euros in
NeuroNova next year, and a further 87 million euros by 2018 to
develop the two products, Saponelli said, citing a  report  by
KPMG LLP. Weber contests that estimate.  Newron needs investors with at least two-thirds of the
shares represented at the Sept. 19 meeting to back the deal
after too few holders turned up for the vote to proceed at a
gathering in July. Zambon, based in Bresso like Newron, plans to
vote against the deal unless it is convinced otherwise,
Saponelli said.  That means Newron’s management needs the support of
investors holding at least 25 percent of the stock to achieve
the two-thirds majority needed for the NeuroNova deal to
proceed.  ‘Lucky’  Zambon will “carefully evaluate” what to do with its
Newron stake if the deal goes through, Saponelli said. The
company hasn’t considered buying all of Newron, he said.  The Zambon deal was a lifeline for Newron after Merck KGaA,
which bought the rights to safinamide in 2006, handed them back
in October, citing “strategic considerations.”  “The company was in trouble,” Saponelli said. “It was
quite close to liquidation, and they were lucky to find a
company like Zambon that in a very short period of time was able
to put on the table a significant amount of money.”  Merck’s move prompted Biotie Therapies Oyj of  Finland  to
scrap a plan to buy Newron, caused investors including Great
Point Partners LLC to sell the stock, and sent the shares to a
record low of 1.82 Swiss francs on Nov. 23.  The stock has more than quadrupled since then and traded at
8.50 francs as of 14:21 p.m. in Zurich, giving Newron a market
value of 67.9 million francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  