-- News Corp. Sued by Pop Singer’s Priest Over Hacking
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-09-13T15:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/news-corp-sued-by-pop-singer-s-priest-whose-phone-was-hacked.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit was sued by
a Welsh priest whose mobile-phone voice mail was intercepted by
the News of the World tabloid to get scoops about one of his
parishioners, the British pop star  Charlotte  Church.  Father Richard Reardon, a Roman Catholic priest in Cardiff,
Wales, sued yesterday in London, court records show. The
 Metropolitan Police Service  told him the newspaper’s former
private detective,  Glenn Mulcaire , had his phone number among
thousands of pages of notes about victims, according to a court
transcript of a Feb. 17 hearing in a related case.  Reardon “was informed by the police that his phone had
been intercepted, and that has been made good on the
documents,” Church’s lawyer, David Sherborne, said at the
February hearing in her privacy lawsuit against the publisher.
The New York-based company agreed to pay 600,000 pounds
($967,000) to settle her case later that month.  The new lawsuit is the first by a religious figure, as the
scandal has focused on the targeting of celebrities, lawmakers,
crime victims and their families.  Rupert Murdoch , the chairman
of News Corp., closed the News of the World in July 2011 to help
contain public anger as the scandal peaked.  Reardon, who was on the “friends and family” mobile-phone
list of Church’s father James, spoke with the Church family
members regularly, exchanging voice mails and text messages with
them, a person familiar with the matter said in February.  Sunday Tabloid  Reardon’s lawyer,  Mark Thomson , declined to comment, as did
 Daisy Dunlop , spokeswoman for News Corp.’s U.K. publisher, News
International. Sherborne also declined to comment.  As part of its settlement with Church, News Corp. said its
best-selling Sunday tabloid had intercepted her voice mail from
the time she was 16-years-old, hacked into her father’s messages
and harassed her mother when she was suffering mental distress.  A trial that would have set guidelines for money damages in
other hacking cases was called off after News Corp. reached
deals with dozens of victims, including Church, who sang at
Murdoch’s wedding in 1999, when she was 13. A second wave of
lawsuits filed since then by more than 60 people is scheduled to
go to trial in  London  sometime after May 1.  The civil cases are running parallel to three police probes
into phone hacking, computer hacking and bribery of public
officials by News Corp. journalists. Eighty people have been
arrested, including former News International Chief Executive
Officer Rebekah Brooks, who was charged in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  