-- Nintendo Says It Will Sell Wii U in U.S. Starting Nov. 18
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-09-13T20:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/nintendo-says-it-will-sell-wii-u-in-u-s-starting-nov-18.html
Nintendo Co. set pre-holiday
release dates for the Wii U, the world’s first new home console
since 2006, betting a broader offering of games, movies and TV
shows will help it revive sales.  The Wii U will start selling Nov. 18 for $300 and up in the
U.S., with new titles ranging from “ Super Mario ” and
“Skylanders” for kids to more traditional shooting games like
“Call of Duty.” The console also will offer a free television
service starting in the U.S. and  Canada , company officials said
today at an event in  New York . Sales begin in December in  Japan .  Nintendo is beefing up the entertainment features of its
console while also responding to growing competition from games
played online and on smartphones from players including  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , which will begin selling the iPhone 5 next week. New
titles made specifically for the Wii U will highlight its unique
tablet-like controller.  “It’s the next advance in gaming,” said  Reggie Fils-Aime ,
Nintendo’s U.S. president. “It’s how you will play next.”  A deluxe console, with extra features and memory, will cost
$350. More than 50 game titles will be released through March to
support the platform, the strongest game slate in Nintendo
history, Fils-Aime said.  High Price  The most enthusiastic Nintendo fans, who number as many as
7 million, probably won’t balk at the Wii U’s relatively high
price,  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Securities, said
today in a research note. Over time, Nintendo may be forced to
cut prices because even its new entertainment features can be
easily matched, he said.  “Pricing will be too high to sustain demand given
competition from other consoles and tablets,” Pachter said.  Nintendo will offer titles “New Super Mario Bros. U” and
“Nintendo Land,” President Satoru Iwata said in a webcast
earlier today.  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  will provide “Call of
Duty:  Black Ops ,” “ James Bond ” and “Transformers.”  The Wii U’s TV service lets users search across the Web and
live TV for shows like “Mad Men,” giving a menu in one place
with free, paid and subscription services. It will connect to
Web-based streaming services from Netflix Inc., Amazon.com Inc.
and Hulu LLC.  Nintendo, the world’s biggest video-game machine maker, is
looking to the Wii U to help it recover from its  first annual
loss . Earlier, the Kyoto, Japan-based company said it will sell
the console in Japan for at least 26,250 yen ($338). A premium
version costing 31,500 yen will start selling on Dec. 8, Iwata
said.  Handheld Player  Nintendo’s 3DS handheld player has missed sales
projections, in part because of that competition and because of
a lack of popular software titles.  With the Wii U pricing, Nintendo will gamble that consumers
will distinguish its new features enough to ignore comparisons
to lower prices on  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s $249 PlayStation 3 and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s $199  Xbox 360  with Kinect. Wii U games also will cost
$60 or more.  “It sounds inexpensive to me, and probably it’s the price
that consumers can afford,” said Takashi Oka, a Tokyo-based
analyst at TIW Inc. “It may prompt existing owners to replace
their Wii with the new one.”  The company’s effort may be helped by some retailer
promotions. Grapevine, Texas-based GameStop, the world’s largest
specialty retailer, will let users trade in older consoles and
smartphones for credits of as much as $400 on certain devices,
President Tony Bartel said today in an interview.  “We think with trade-ins, it puts the Wii U back down at a
very affordable price point,” Bartel said.  Microsoft, Sony  The basic version will offer a white-colored console and 8
gigabytes of storage, Nintendo said. The premium model is black,
with 32 gigabytes of storage. Both will include a GamePad touch-
screen controller that’s similar to a tablet computer and
supports new forms of game play.  The Wii U GamePad features a 6.2 inch screen that provides
extra information to players as they manipulate games on their
TVs. It also can be used as a primary screen in the home. The
machine includes new social-networking features, allowing
players to interact with each other.  “The price is probably set just above production costs so
the company won’t lose money,” said Tomoaki Kawasaki, a Tokyo-
based analyst at Iwai Cosmo Securities. “I’m paying close
attention to whether there will be innovative software.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  