-- Nintendo to Sell Wii U in Japan From Dec. 8 to Revive Growth
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-09-13T10:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/nintendo-to-sell-wii-u-in-japan-from-december-to-revive-demand.html
Nintendo Co., the world’s biggest
video-game machine maker, will sell its new Wii U console in
 Japan  beginning in December for at least 26,250 yen ($338) as
the company tries to recover from its first annual loss.  Nintendo also will sell a premium version for 31,500 yen
starting Dec. 8, President Satoru Iwata said in a webcast today.
The Kyoto, Japan-based company will offer games including “New
Super Mario Bros. U” and “Nintendo Land,” Iwata said.  The console maker counts on the Wii U, the first new home-
gaming machine by a major maker since 2006, to propel a recovery
after sales of the 3DS handheld player missed projections
because of a lack of popular software titles. Nintendo faces
growing competition from games played online and on smartphones
from companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which will begin selling
the iPhone 5 next week.  “It sounds inexpensive to me, and probably it’s the price
that consumers can afford,” said Takashi Oka, a Tokyo-based
analyst at TIW Inc. “It may prompt existing owners to replace
their Wii with the new one.”  The stock may rise on the announcement, he said. The basic
set will have a white-colored console and eight gigabytes of
storage, Nintendo said. The premium set will come with a black-
colored console with 32 gigabytes of storage, the company said.
Both will include a GamePad touch-screen controller.  Microsoft, Sony Consoles  The Wii U features a 6.2-inch screen controller, which will
provide extra information to players as they manipulate games on
their TVs. It can also become the primary screen when they move
around. The machine includes new social-networking features,
allowing players to interact with each other.  “The price is probably set just above production costs so
the company won’t lose money,” said Tomoaki Kawasaki, a Tokyo-
based analyst at Iwai Cosmo Securities. “I’m paying close
attention to whether there will be innovative software.”  Nintendo will hold an  event  today in  New York  to unveil
plans for the Wii U in the U.S.  Sony Corp. (6758)  sells its PlayStation 3 game console from 24,980
yen in Japan and $249 in the U.S.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox is
priced from 19,800 yen in Japan, or $199.99 in U.S. stores.
Apple’s iPhone 5 will have a price tag starting at $199, and the
iPad is sold from $499.  3DS Demand  Nintendo  rose  2.3 percent to 9,230 yen in Osaka trading
before the announcement. The shares have dropped 13 percent this
year, compared with a 65 percent gain by Cupertino, California-
based Apple.  Iwata, 52, has said software titles will help drive sales
of the new console. The 3DS, which cost 25,000 yen in Japan
before the price was cut by as much as 40 percent in August, was
hobbled by a lack of attractive titles, he said in April.  Lackluster demand for the 3DS, which can beam images in 3-
D, coupled with a  stronger yen  that eroded overseas earnings led
to Nintendo posting both operating and net losses in the year
ended March 31 -- the first time that’s happened since the
company went public in 1962. The Americas and  Europe  accounted
for 72 percent of sales, according to its earnings statement.  The machine is being released during an industry slump as
consumers abandon consoles in favor of games played on
smartphones and social-networking sites including Facebook Inc.
When Nintendo introduced its last home video-game console, the
Wii, in 2006, the iPhone hadn’t yet gone to market, the game
“Angry Birds” didn’t exist and social-gaming company  Zynga
Inc. (ZNGA)  hadn’t been founded.  Sales Slump  Retail sales of video-game hardware, software and
accessories in the U.S., the world’s biggest video-game market,
fell 20 percent last month from a year earlier, led by a 39
percent plunge in hardware sales, NPD Group Inc. said Sept. 6.
That followed a 20 percent drop in July, according to the  Port
Washington , New York-based researcher.  Nintendo sold 9.84 million Wii machines in the year ended
March 31, compared with 13.9 million PlayStation 3 consoles in
the same period. Microsoft sold 14.9 million Xbox machines in
2011.  The Wii U screen on the console’s controller will provide
extra information to players as they manipulate games on their
TVs, and can become the primary screen when they move around.
The machine also includes new social-networking features,
allowing players to interact with each other.  Tokyo-based Sony will introduce the PlayStation Mobile
service later this year, offering titles for  HTC Corp. (2498)  devices
as well as its PlayStation Vita portable player and Sony Xperia
smartphone, it said in June. At the E3 trade show in June,
Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft unveiled an application
called Xbox SmartGlass that will link the console to phones,
tablets and personal computers from Microsoft and rivals.  Iwata has ruled out the possibility of making Nintendo’s
characters available for gaming devices other than its own.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  