-- Nokia Falls Most in Week on Apple’s New IPhone 5: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-09-13T09:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/nokia-falls-most-in-week-on-apple-s-new-iphone-5-helsinki-mover.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the mobile-phone maker
partnering with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  on smartphones, retreated the
most in a week in Helsinki trading after  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  unveiled its
newest handset.  Nokia slid as much as 4 percent, capping four days of
gains. The shares fell 1.9 percent to 2.17 euros at 12:51 p.m.
in the Finnish capital, giving Nokia a market valuation of 8.1
billion euros ($10.5 billion).  Apple presented the iPhone 5 yesterday. The Cupertino,
California-based company may sell as many as 58 million units of
the lighter and faster handset by the end of the year, according
the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The iPhone has helped make Apple the most valuable company
in the world after it was introduced in 2007, turning the tables
on Nokia, which until then led the mobile-phone market. With a
market value 60 times smaller than Apple, the Espoo, Finland-
based company is also under assault by devices running Google
Inc.’s Android operating system.  Nokia will probably have “relatively low” fourth-quarter
shipments of its handsets running on the Windows Phone 8
platform, Danske Bank A/S said in a note to clients today. A
scarcity of  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ’s chips used in Nokia’s Lumia phones
may also create a bottleneck, the Copenhagen-based bank said.
Danske has a 1.20-euro 12-month  target price  on the stock, which
it recommends clients to sell.  Nokia has 23 sell recommendations, 15 holds and 10 buys,
according to data compiled from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The average price target is 1.98 euros.  Demand for Qualcomm’s Snapdragon processors will outstrip
supply at the start of the fourth quarter, Qualcomm Chief
Operating Officer Steve Mollenkopf said, according to a
 transcript  of a conference call held yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  