-- Nomura Names Patel, Rietbrock as Co-Heads of Equities
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-09-13T15:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/nomura-names-patel-rietbrock-as-co-heads-of-equities.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s
largest brokerage, named Samir Patel and  Michael Rietbrock  co-
heads of Americas equities to replace Ciaran O’Kelly as the firm
recalibrates its overseas operations.  Patel, who joined Nomura from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in 2009
as co-head of derivative sales, has been in charge of execution
sales the last two years, David Findlay, chief executive officer
of the Americas unit, wrote today in a memo obtained by
 Bloomberg News . Rietbrock, 43, joined the firm in 2010 from
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America as head of U.S.
equity research. Patel and Rietbrock’s new positions are
effective immediately.  O’Kelly, 44, is leaving Nomura as the Tokyo-based bank
overhauls international operations as part of plan to make them
profitable by June 2014. CEO Koji Nagai, 53, is cutting $210
million in expenses in the Americas. The changes follow a four-
year effort to build a presence abroad, beginning with the 2008
purchase of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s European and Asian
units.  “These changes are the natural next step after last week’s
global equities reorganization,” O’Kelly said in a statement.
“After a combined 25 years of working with Mike and Samir, I
know the business is in very capable hands.”  Hong Kong  O’Kelly “had a mandate to spend a lot of money” when he
was recruited to Nomura, and his departure comes as the
priorities change, said Richard Lipstein, managing director of
search firm Gilbert Tweed International in  New York . O’Kelly,
previously global head of equities at Bank of America, will
remain at Nomura through the end of the year, Findlay wrote in a
separate memo yesterday.  Makram Fares, Nomura’s co-head of European equity sales and
equity derivatives, departed earlier this week ahead of cutbacks
in the firm’s Europe and Asia units, according to two people
briefed on the matter. More than a dozen bankers in equities
have been eliminated in  Hong Kong , while a small number in
equity sales and trading may be moved to Instinet Inc., an
alternative trading platform controlled by Nomura, one of the
people said.  Among the executives cut in Hong Kong are Nick Heather,
head of  program trading  in Asia Pacific, and Ivan Lee, head of
research for industries such as power, metals and mining outside
Japan, according to the people. Richard Gittus, an  executive
director  in research sales in Hong Kong, also left this week,
the people said.  ‘Less Liquidity’  Nomura expanded its workforce in the Americas to 2,350 from
900 in March 2009.  The Americas contributed 35.5 billion yen ($456 million),
or 29 percent, to Nomura’s fiscal first-quarter global wholesale
net revenue, which includes  investment banking , fixed-income and
equities trading. That compares with 42.5 billion yen, or 27
percent, in the previous quarter ended March 31, which was the
Americas wholesale division’s strongest since Nomura began
building its U.S. operation in April 2009.  The global wholesale unit reported an 8.6 billion yen loss
before income taxes in the fiscal first quarter, and the bank
said equities and investment-banking revenue was “affected by
less liquidity in major markets and fewer revenue
opportunities,” according to a July  presentation .  Nomura generated 161.7 billion yen ($2.1 billion) in global
equity trading revenue in the 12 months ended June 30. That
compares with $3.2 billion at Bank of America and $5.6 billion
at Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  