-- Nordex Cost Cuts Raise Prospects for Best Turnaround
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   T o m   M e t c a l f
-- 2012-09-14T17:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/nordex-cost-cuts-raise-prospects-for-best-turnaround.html
German wind-turbine maker  Nordex SE (NDX1) 
is set to achieve its cost-cutting program this year and has
sold out of its newest-model machine, raising prospects for the
biggest earnings comeback among renewable-energy companies.  The unprofitable manufacturer told analysts in  Frankfurt 
it’s on target to cut product costs 15 percent over three years
and will seek a further 4 percent cut in 2013, Ralf Peters, head
of Nordex investor relations, confirmed after the closed-door
meeting yesterday. The Hamburg-based company sold the 60-plus
production run of its 2.4-megawatt turbine that debuted this
year, he said. The stock rose to its highest in more than four
months.  “The worst may be over for Nordex,” Wais Samadzada, an
analyst at Montega AG who in May changed his sell rating to hold
for the first time since he began covering the stock in
September 2010, said by phone from Hamburg.  Nordex rose 2.65 percent, to 3.449 euros a share, the
highest closing price in Frankfurt since April 27. The  Bloomberg
Global Wind Energy (BRWINDV)  index was 1.6 percent higher.  Share Performance  Nordex and market leader  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  of Denmark
have respectively dropped 13 percent and 41 percent in stock
markets this year as they struggle with narrowing margins. Wind-
turbine makers across the globe have reduced prices to compete
for orders with their Asian peers as U.S. and European
governments cut clean-energy incentives to curb budget deficits.  Nordex will break even on an adjusted basis this year,
compared with a per-share loss of 67 euro cents in 2011,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
reversal represents 22 percent of its current share price, the
largest percentage gain among clean-energy companies forecast to
make money this year on the 95-member  WilderHill New Energy
Global Innovation Index. (NEX)   Vestas Return  Vestas, which today said it won an order for 8 turbines in
 Italy , also will return to the black on an adjusted basis. That
gain will represent 18 percent of its share price, even after
the stock fell by more than a fifth this week.  Nordex’s firm orders for the first half were little changed
at 522 million euros ($686 million), avoiding the 30 percent
contraction in new business experienced in the wider turbine
sector estimated by Danish wind-energy adviser  MAKE Consulting .  “Nordex is underexposed to the weakest markets such as the
U.S. or  China , compared to leading manufacturers like Gamesa and
Vestas,” Julien Desmaretz, an analyst at investment bank Bryan
Garnier & Co., said before the meeting yesterday. Gamesa
Corporacion Tecnologica SA is  Spain ’s biggest wind-turbine
maker. “The U.S. market is set to halve next year and Nordex
will be less impacted than its peers.”  ‘Appealing’  While Nordex’ new strategy unveiled yesterday looks
“appealing,” the uncertain global demand outlook is likely to
provide near-term headwind, Lauren Licuanan, an analyst with
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt said today in an e-mailed note.  Nordex will focus on selling to smaller developers, mid-
sized operators and private equity investors, boosting its
services business which allows for greater profit and trying to
develop new turbines faster.  The N117, a 2.4-megawatt windmill designed for locations
with low wind speeds that Nordex started building in July, “can
generate higher margins,” Oliver Kayser, a spokesman for the
company, said Sept. 4. The company will unveil two related
models for medium and high wind-speed locations next year,
Peters said.  Nordex is right to ditch plans to sell turbines for
offshore wind farms and focus on machines sized at about 2.5
megawatts, said Montega’s Samadzada.  It “has very good prerequisites to survive the
consolidation process that should last another 18 months and
emerge from it as one of the leading niche players for this
turbine class.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  