-- North Korea Investment Zone Promoted to Chinese as Next Shenzhen
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-13T00:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/north-korea-investment-zone-promoted-to-chinese-as-next-shenzhen.html
North Korean economic zones run
jointly with the nation’s main ally, China, are wooing investors
by promising low taxes and high returns as the totalitarian
North seeks to salvage an impoverished economy.  An area at Rason city will become “ North Korea ’s
Shenzhen,” Li Zichen, a deputy director of a zone management
committee, told hundreds of people at an investment fair in
Xiamen, China, on Sept. 9. Shenzhen led China’s rise to becoming
the world’s biggest exporter. A second zone on the Yalu river is
a “blessed land for investors to get rich,” said Zhang
Zhiqian, also a deputy director.  The enthusiasm contrasts with frustrations highlighted last
month when Chinese mineral company Xiyang Group said an iron-ore
venture collapsed after North Korea violated a contract. Success
in expanding the zones would help Kim Jong Un develop a nation
that struggles to feed a population of 24 million amid
international isolation stemming from its nuclear program.  “Any reasonable Chinese investor will think twice before
putting money down,” said Da Zhigang, director of the Institute
of Northeast Asian Studies at the Heilongjiang Academy of Social
Sciences in the northeastern city of Harbin. “There are many
stories on Chinese websites about losing money.”  North Korea and China operate two joint economic zones near
their shared border, one at Rason and the other on the islands
of Hwanggumphyong and Wihwa on the Yalu river. Rason was founded
in the 1990s and the island zone was set up in June. Li and
Zhang made their presentations at a conference organized by
China’s  Ministry of Commerce .  Shenzhen Model  The southern export hub of Shenzhen was China’s first
special economic zone, growing from a fishing village into a
trade center after former leader  Deng Xiaoping  allowed foreign
investment.  Xiyang Group was “chiefly to blame” for the failed iron-
ore deal after it fulfilled only about half of its obligations,
the official Korean Central News Agency said Sept. 5.  The Seoul-based Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency,
which collects North Korea trade data, said on June 1 that North
Korea’s dependence on China deepened in 2011 as exports of coal
and other minerals to its main ally increased. China is North
Korea’s main benefactor, accounting for 89 percent of the
nation’s foreign trade.  China pledged increased support for trade between the
countries after the uncle of North Korea’s leader, Jang Song
Thaek, met Chinese Commerce Minister Chen Deming in Beijing last
month. The two sides will “speed up infrastructure construction
in the zones” to attract investment,  China ’s Commerce Ministry
said in a statement at the time.  Flexible Policies  “Since the First Secretary Kim Jong Un came into office,
the North Korean central government has proactively supported
the zone and offered more flexible and pragmatic policies,” Li
told the crowd at the investment fair, without providing
specifics. Rason will become “an important international
logistics center in Northeast Asia, a trade center, a tourism
hotspot, a base of high-end manufacturing and a modern port
city,” he said.  The Hwanggumphyong and Wihwa islands will focus on
textiles, agriculture and software development, Zhang said. The
area provides incentives including duty-free imports, an income
tax rate of 14 percent and no visa requirement for entry,
according to Zhang.  Joint management committees for the zones were established
Aug. 14 during Jang’s visit last month, the Chinese Ministry of
Commerce said in a statement on its website.  Industrial Complex  North Korea intends for the Wihwa and Hwanggumphyong
islands to be developed into an industrial complex for Chinese
companies, according to Cho Bong Hyun of the Seoul-based IBK
Economic Research Institute. Rason is being developed into a hub
for foreign trade and offers landlocked Chinese provinces in the
region access to ports, Koh Yu Hwan, a professor of North Korean
studies at  Dongguk University  in  Seoul , has said.  About 16 million of North Korea’s 24 million people suffer
from chronic food insecurity, high malnutrition rates, and deep-
rooted economic challenges, Jerome Sauvage, the UN resident
coordinator in Pyongyang, said in a June 12 statement.  Kim Jong Un oversaw the launching of a long-range rocket on
April 13 that deepened the North Korea’s isolation. The U.S.
canceled a February deal for 240,000 metric tons of food aid in
exchange for a halt on nuclear weapons and missile tests, and
the  United Nations Security Council  also widened existing
sanctions.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  