-- Norway Rejects Oil Industry Pleas to Halt Pay Boom
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-09-14T12:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/norway-rejects-oil-industry-pleas-to-halt-pay-boom.html
Norway  rejected pleas from the
country’s oil industry to help contain wage growth that
producers say is hampering competitiveness in western  Europe ’s
largest crude exporter.  A government-appointed commission on oilrigs and drilling
concluded last month Norway must cut labor costs and ease
regulations to ensure petroleum isn’t left in the ground.  “As a country and as a sector, we should never compete on
security, health and environmental standards, or hourly wages
for personnel,” Norway Oil Minister Ola Borten Moe, 36, said in
a Sept. 11 interview. “We live in a country with real-wage
increases. We have for many, many years, and I hope that
continues.”  Norwegian oil professionals have annual pay checks
averaging $180,300 -- more than double the global average,
according to a study published by Hays Oil & Gas. A strike over
pay and pensions at the end of June and beginning of July was
ended by the government through forced arbitration as a total
shutdown loomed. The strike disrupted 15 percent of oil
production and 7 percent of gas output, according to Norway’s
Oil Industry Association.  Strike Looms  Another potential strike looms. Talks have broken down
between oil-service workers and drilling companies, with
government mediation talks  scheduled  for Oct. 1 and Oct 2.  Drilling costs in Norway are about 40 percent to 45 percent
higher than in the U.K., and may reach 80 billion kroner this
year, according to the July report. Costs may prevent companies
from exploiting harder-to-reach reserves in mature fields, just
as Norway is trying to boost falling oil production by
increasing recovery rates from aging  North Sea  fields and
expanding into areas in the  Barents Sea .  Cost control will need to be achieved through more
“efficiency and technological improvements,” Borten Moe said.  The government owns 67 percent of Statoil, which controls
about 80 percent of the country’s offshore areas.  “We are working a lot on our own operations to make them
as efficient as possible, we are working to get new tools, new
rigs, we are working with technology development,” said Statoil
Chief Executive Helge Lund in a Sept. 12 interview. “I wouldn’t
use the word ‘fear’, but we are trying to bring that into
actions on how we can address the bottlenecks that are there. So
far, I think we’ve managed that well.”  Deposits Lost  Companies, including  Total SA (FP) ,  Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE)  and Dong
Energy A/S have said costs for services and equipment may
increase in Norway as recent discoveries like the Johan Sverdrup
field in the North Sea, the biggest since the 1970s, have
revived exploration interest in the Nordic country. Investments
will reach a record 204 billion kroner next year, according to a
quarterly survey by the Norwegian statistics agency.  Petoro AS, which manages the Norwegian government’s direct
ownership in oil and gas licenses, has warned that time-critical
mature deposits could be lost because of reduced capacity.  “In Norway, but also globally, there are capacity
challenges that are important to focus on, both for the
companies and authorities,” said Borten Moe. “We have a
responsibility, together, to make sure we don’t build bubble
tendencies in this part of the economy.”  Not Accept  Borten Moe, who represents the Center Party in Jens
Stoltenberg’s Labor-led government, said authorities had
“regulatory tools” to ensure companies stayed committed to
extracting the most from each field, pointing to a 2007 decision
by a predecessor to halt a plan to increase gas output from the
Troll field because it would compromise oil production.  “We will not simply accept that companies just pick and
choose, and that they don’t do their homework on the tasks they
already have and shift to a one-sided focus on possible new
discoveries,” he said. Most were “doing what is expected of
them,” he said.  The minister declined to take a public stand in a dispute
over how to develop potential gas finds in the Barents Sea, off
Norway’s northern tip. Lundin,  Det Norske Oljeselskap (DETNOR)  and other
producers have said new finds could stay in the ground if
Statoil and its partners at the Snohvit field decide to expand
their liquefied natural gas plant rather than build a south-
bound pipeline.  ‘Don’t Know’  Statoil has said it favors an LNG expansion because there
aren’t enough known reserves in the area to justify a pipe,
which could cost as much as 25 billion kroner to build according
to Gassco AS, Norway’s gas transportation operator.  “Had we known that there were a lot of small gas
discoveries waiting to be made, it’s possible they could be
right,” Borten Moe said. “But we don’t know.”  The minister said it is still important that companies
search for gas in the Barents Sea and that capacity had to be
increased in one way or another.  “That can happen through LNG or through a pipe. If we find
enough gas, there could be room for both and maybe even more,”
he said.  Norway’s government plans to present a plan to open new
fields in a formerly disputed area bordering Russian waters in
the Barents Sea as well as around the Jan Mayen islands next
“spring,” Borten Moe said. If parliament agrees, these areas
could be included in the next licensing round in 2013, he said.  Lofton Debate  Norway’s main opposition party, the  Conservative Party , has
said it would open areas outside the Lofoten and Vesteraalen
islands in northern Norway for exploration as soon as possible,
if it wins elections next year. Statoil has also lobbied for the
areas to be opened. Stoltenberg’s government decided last year
to postpone a planned environment impact study until after the
2013 election.  Borten Moe declined to comment on the issue, saying his own
party hadn’t reached a decision. Stoltenberg’s Labor was divided
while the third coalition partner, the Socialist Left Party, was
opposed. The areas around the islands contain unique cold-water
coral reefs and are a key breeding ground for marine life.  The minister sparked controversy last month when, speaking
of opening new areas off Norway’s northern tip at a conference,
he said that “Norway ends almost at the  North Pole .” While
technological progress would enable Norway to open areas further
north, he said any expansion would be step-by-step.  “We haven’t opened new areas in Norway since 1994,” he
said. “This has always been Norwegian tradition: to proceed
carefully when ready and when it’s needed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo on  at
 jbergman@bloomberg.ne  