-- NuVista Proves Most Tempting Target in Energy Industry
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-09-13T13:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/nuvista-proves-most-tempting-target-in-energy-industry.html
NuVista Energy Ltd. (NVA) ’s decision to
slim down to focus on its natural-gas resources in  Alberta  is
turning the oil and gas explorer into one of the industry’s most
tempting takeover targets.  After divesting assets to help pay down debt, the Calgary-
based company’s enterprise value will be about 36 times its
post-sale daily production, or lower than 94 percent of peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The C$456 million ($467
million) company agreed to the transactions after its shares
 dropped  68 percent since February 2010.  NuVista’s reorganization around its Wapiti project makes
the company a more likely takeover candidate, according to UBS
AG. FirstEnergy Capital Corp. and Salman Partners Inc. say it
may draw interest from China Petrochemical Corp., the state-run
energy producer known as Sinopec that bought property near
NuVista’s Wapiti site in  Canada  last year.  “They just streamlined their asset base,” Matt Donohue, a
Calgary-based analyst at UBS, said in a telephone interview.
“It does position the company to eventually get something done,
which I think is the end game.”  Jonathan Wright, chief executive officer of NuVista, and
Chief Financial Officer Robert Froese didn’t respond to phone
messages and e-mails seeking comment on whether the company has
been approached by buyers or would be open to a sale. A
spokesman for Sinopec declined to comment on whether the company
is interested in acquiring NuVista.  ‘Capitally Intensive’  NuVista, created in 2003 when Bonavista Petroleum Ltd.
divided in two, said this week that it’s raising about C$236
million by selling properties, an amount equal to more than half
its market capitalization at the time. Doing so will reduce net
debt to C$108 million from C$339 million, giving NuVista more
financial freedom to accelerate development of the Wapiti
natural-gas project, according to the company. Building out that
site is “capitally intensive,” Brian Kristjansen, an analyst
at Canaccord Financial Inc., wrote in a Sept. 11 report.  Following the sales, NuVista’s production will be reduced
to 16,200 barrels of oil equivalent per day, the company said
Sept. 10. Factoring in the proceeds from those divestitures,
NuVista’s equity and net debt will be valued at about 35.7 times
that rate.  That multiple is less than almost all of the 142 other
energy explorers and producers in  North America  with market
values bigger than $250 million, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Companies in the group trade at a median ratio of about 84
times production.  ‘Unfair Discount’  “Believing that NuVista is creating enough liquidity to
show some solid growth over the next two years, I think it
trades at an unfair discount to some of the other peers,” Adam Gill, a Calgary-based analyst for Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, said in a phone interview.  While its assets in Canada’s Montney shale region require
“a lot of capital” to develop and NuVista’s borrowing capacity
will be reduced by the divestitures, the company comes out
stronger because of the sales, according to Robert Fitzmartyn,
managing director of institutional research at FirstEnergy
Capital in Calgary. By slimming down, NuVista is making itself
more attractive to a buyer, he said.  “It’s a cleaner-type asset base,” he said in a phone
interview. “When you sell properties, it’s always a little bit
of a spiral in that you lose borrowing capacity, so their credit
lines will be coming down, but net-net, I think they’ll be
ahead.”  Gas Condensate  The company is now focusing on developing natural-gas
condensate, an oil-like substance that sells at higher prices
than natural gas, at the Wapiti site. Sinopec agreed to buy
Daylight Energy Ltd. last year, acquiring assets near those that
NuVista is retaining.  NuVista has “got an asset that already is seeing Asian
capital come in,” Fitzmartyn said. NuVista is “not markedly
different than Daylight,” and for Sinopec, “clearly their
appetite to acquire Canadian companies seems to not be
diminished.”  While NuVista is smaller, its Montney assets may give it
the same appeal that prompted Petroliam Nasional Bhd. to bid
C$20.45 a share for Calgary-based  Progress Energy  Resources
Corp. this year, according to Gordon Currie, senior oil and gas
analyst at Salman Partners. That price was a 77 percent premium
to Progress Energy’s prior closing level, and the offer was
later increased to C$22 a share.  Similar Premium  A potential buyer of NuVista may have to pay a similar
premium, Calgary-based Currie said in a phone interview. He
estimates NuVista’s net asset value per share at C$11.63,
according to a note dated Sept. 11, and said NuVista may seek
more than that in a sale. The stock closed at C$4.58 yesterday.  The company probably isn’t interested yet in selling
because it’s focused on reducing debt and organizing its
operations around the Wapiti project, said Joanne Angela Hruska,
a Calgary-based  fund manager  at Aston Hill Financial Inc., which
oversees C$5.6 billion.  Is NuVista’s goal “necessarily to be sold? No,” she said
in a phone interview. “Will they be a potential takeover
candidate? At least this makes it a little cleaner if there were
to be an acquisition, but I believe it’s more about getting the
debt down and focusing on the Wapiti.”  While Canaccord’s Kristjansen said the asset sales have
made NuVista a more likely takeover candidate, the Calgary-based
analyst sees the shares falling to C$4, down 13 percent from
yesterday’s close. He  recommends  selling the stock.  NuVista’s borrowing reduction has put the company on the
path toward potentially getting bought, Currie said.  “They’ve made themselves more survivable by reducing their
debt,” he said. That will let the company focus on growth and
it “makes them more attractive to a buyer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  