-- NYC Health Panel Backs Bloomberg Ban on Super-Size Sodas
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-09-13T19:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/nyc-health-panel-backs-bloomberg-ban-on-super-size-sugar-drinks.html
New York City will restrict sales
of sugary soft drinks to no more than 16 ounces a cup in
restaurants, movie theaters, stadiums and arenas after the Board
of Health approved Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s plan.  The 8-0 vote with one abstention today by the panel’s
members, who were appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the
City Council, rejected arguments from  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  PepsiCo
Inc. (PEP)  and restaurant companies whose  coalition  says the issue is
about freedom to choose. The group’s website says it has
attracted more than 250,000  New Yorkers  opposed to the plan.  “This is the single biggest step any city has ever taken
to curb obesity, certainly not the last step that lots of cities
are going to take,” Bloomberg said at a City Hall news
conference after the vote. “We believe it will save many
lives.”  The rules are the latest of several Bloomberg nutrition
initiatives during the past nine years, including a requirement
that chain restaurants post calorie counts on menus. The health
board and City Council banned artery-clogging trans-fats from
restaurants and prepared foods, and the mayor blocked sugary
soft drinks from vending machines in schools and city buildings.  “Obesity for the first time in the history of the world
will kill more people this year in the world than starvation,”
the mayor said. “It has gone from becoming a rich person’s
disease to a poor person’s disease. It’s the only public health
issue that’s getting worse.”  No Net Wait  Restaurants, movie theaters and other outlets have six
months to comply or face a $200 fine each time there’s a
violation, the health department said. The ban doesn’t apply to
 convenience stores  and groceries that don’t act primarily as
purveyors of prepared foods, which are regulated by  New York 
state. The rules do allow consumers to buy as many of the
smaller drinks as they want and to get refills.  Barclays Center, the new arena that will be a concert venue
and home court for the  National Basketball Association ’s
Brooklyn Nets, will voluntarily comply with the sugared-drink
limits when it opens Sept. 28, said its developer, Bruce Ratner,
chief executive officer of Forest City Ratner and a minority
owner of the team. He joined Bloomberg at the news conference.  “Obesity has become such an epidemic in the city,
particularly with children,” Ratner said. “It wasn’t a
difficult decision at all, because it’s so important.”  Public Feedback  Today’s vote followed three months of public feedback. The
health department said it received 38,000 comments, with 32,000
in support and 6,000 opposed.  “To not act would be criminal,” said board member Susan
Klitzman, a professor and director of the Urban Public Health
Program at  Hunter College  in  Manhattan .  A ban is “on-the-margin bad” for Coca-Cola and PepsiCo,
Thomas Mullarkey, a Chicago-based analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) ,
said in an interview before the vote. “But I don’t think it’s
bad enough to move the needle on their stock prices.”  The  American Beverage Association  and the  National
Restaurant Association  opposed the restrictions. Calories from
sugary beverages as a percentage of Americans’ diets are
declining, both groups say. U.S. soft-drink sales have fallen
for seven straight years, according to Beverage Digest.  ‘Devastating Effect’  “It will have a devastating effect on large businesses
like beverage companies, but also mom-and-pops that rely on the
profits of selling the drinks,” said Eliot Hoff, a spokesman
for the industry coalition, New Yorkers for Beverage Choices.  The group is “exploring all avenues to challenge the
board’s ruling, including in court,” it said in a statement
after the vote.  The group says its members include Coca-Cola, PepsiCo,
 Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc.’s (DNKN)   Dunkin’ Donuts  stores and  McDonald’s
Corp. (MCD)  restaurants.  “We strongly encourage our guests to make choices that are
right for them,” Michelle King, a Dunkin’ Brands spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail today. “Forcing customers to purchase smaller
beverages will also negatively impact small business owners like
our franchisees, who are still dealing with a challenging
economy.”  Dunkin’ Donuts, which has 478 stores in the city, won’t be
able to sell certain beverages in sizes larger than 16 ounces,
including hot chocolate, Dunkaccino coffees and some frozen
drinks, she said. Store workers won’t be permitted to add
sweeteners to some beverages, she said.  McDonald’s ‘Disappointed’  McDonald’s, which yesterday said it would begin posting
calorie counts on menus at U.S. stores, sells drinks that meet
customers’ “nutritional needs and taste preferences,” Heather
Oldani, a McDonald’s spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today.
McDonald’s has 245 locations in  New York City , she said.  “We are very disappointed this proposal passed,” she
said. “Public health issues cannot be effectively addressed
through a narrowly focused ban.”  Soft-drink makers say their products make up 7 percent of
the average American’s diet, too little to be the cause of
obesity. Weight gain can be slowed by paying attention to the
amount of calories consumed and burned through exercise, the
American Beverage Association has said. Soda makers have offered
smaller packages, labeled products with clearer calorie counts
and agreed to stop selling sugary drinks in most schools.  Won’t Help  “We don’t believe it will do anything to impact obesity,”
Hoff said. “This idea that people are not educated enough to
make their own decisions is wrong.”  More than 35 percent of U.S. adults and about 17 percent of
youths -- or roughly 90 million people -- are considered obese,
according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.  The largest driver of increases in obesity and caloric
consumption is sugary drinks, city Health Commissioner Thomas Farley has said.  He has cited studies saying Americans now consume 200 to
300 more calories daily than 30 years ago, and that men  given  18
ounces of beverage, compared with 12 ounces, drank 26 percent
more while women drank 10 percent more, with no decrease in food
consumption and no difference in reported fullness or thirst.  Recent efforts to tax soft drinks have foundered in at
least 30 states. Last year, the federal government rejected an
attempt to bar purchases of sugared drinks with  food stamps .  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  