-- Obama Administration Downplays Notion of Rift With Egypt’s Mursi
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-09-13T17:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/obama-administration-downplays-notion-of-rift-with-egypt-s-mursi.html
 The Obama administration
downplayed any rift with the Egyptian government a day after
President  Barack Obama  said he doesn’t consider Egypt an
“ally,” following an assault on the U.S. Embassy in Cairo by
protesters angered by an anti-Muslim film.  The president, “in diplomatic and legal terms, was
speaking correctly” when he described Egypt’s status in an
interview yesterday with Telemundo, White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  said in  Colorado , where Obama is campaigning. He said
the U.S. doesn’t have a mutual defense agreement with Egypt as
it does, for example, with other members of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization.  National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor called
Egypt a “long-standing and close partner of the United States”
and said Obama is committed to “supporting Egypt’s transition
to democracy and working with the new government.”  The remarks by the two spokesmen about the Telemundo
interview also came after a statement early today from the White
House describing a call between Obama and Egyptian President
Mohamed Mursi. On that call, Obama “underscored the importance
of Egypt following through on its commitment to cooperate with
the  United States  in securing U.S. diplomatic facilities and
personnel,” the administration said in the statement.  ‘Work in Progress’  In the Telemundo interview, Obama was asked whether he
considers the Mursi government a U.S. ally.  “I don’t think that we would consider them an ally, but we
don’t consider them an enemy,” Obama said. He did not reference
mutual defense treaties.  Describing the Egyptian government as new, democratically
elected and “trying to find its way,” Obama said that “we are
going to have to see how they respond” to the siege on the
embassy and to maintaining a peace treaty with  Israel . “I think
it’s still a work in progress.”  Obama also said in the interview that the U.S. expected the
Egyptian government to be “responsive” to protecting U.S.
embassy and personnel and that if that doesn’t happen, “That’s
going to be a real big problem.”  Carney said the administration wasn’t considering
withholding aid to  Egypt . “We have an important strategic
partnership with Egypt and that partnership continues,” he
said.  Egypt Aid  There has been support in Congress this year to maintain
current levels of aid to Egypt amid the broad political changes
there -- with more strings attached.  The appropriations panels in the Senate and House have both
approved measures that would provide $250 million in aid to
Egypt in the new fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. Neither piece
of legislation has advanced to the floors of their respective
chambers yet. That’s the same amount as allowed for in the
current year, and consistent with what Obama has requested.  The administration expects additional protests throughout
the region, Carney said. Protesters attempted to storm the U.S.
Embassy in  Yemen ’s capital, Sana’a, while demonstrators rallied
in Egypt and  Iran  as the furor over the film spread.  Obama, who is wrapping up a two-day campaign swing,
received a briefing from Deputy National Security Adviser  Denis McDonough  focused specifically on developments in the region and
the progress of efforts under way to enhance security at U.S.
facilities in the region, Carney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  