-- Obama Leads Romney in Poll of Florida, Ohio and Virginia
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-09-15T00:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/obama-leads-romney-in-poll-of-florida-ohio-and-virginia.html
President  Barack Obama  continues to
lead Republican rival  Mitt Romney  in post-convention opinion
polls, with a CBS News/New York Times survey out today giving
him a three-percentage-point advantage among likely voters.  Obama received 49 percent support in the  poll  taken Sept.
8-12, while Romney had 46 percent, a difference between the two
within the poll’s margin of error of plus or minus three
percentage points. Independents backed Romney, 50 percent to 44
percent, as did male voters by 52 percent to 44 percent. Obama
led among women, 53 percent to 41 percent.  Obama has erased Romney’s advantage when voters are asked
which candidate would do a better job handling the economy and
creating jobs, the poll found. Obama leads Romney in that
category 50 percent to 44 percent, whereas in previous CBS/ New
York  Times polls Romney led by as much as 14 percentage points.  An NBC News/Wall Street Journal survey released yesterday
of likely voters in the swing states of Florida, Ohio and
 Virginia  showed Obama ahead in each race. Recent national polls
by CNN and Gallup following last week’s Democratic National
Convention also put Obama in the lead.  The NBC/Journal  poll  gave Obama a 49 percent to 44 percent
edge over Romney in both Florida and Virginia, and a 50 percent
to 43 percent edge in Ohio. No Republican has ever won the White
House without carrying Ohio.  Democratic Convention  “We’re seeing the effects of the Democratic convention in
these numbers and we’ll see whether” Obama is “able to sustain
it,” said  Lee Miringoff , director of the Marist College
Institute for  Public Opinion  in Poughkeepsie, New York, which
conducted the poll.  The three-state survey was released on the same day Romney
campaigned in Virginia, criticizing Obama’s handling of the
attacks on U.S. diplomatic posts in the Middle East, one of
which led to the deaths of four Americans in  Libya . “As we
watch the world today, sometimes it seems that we are at the
mercy of events instead of shaping events,” Romney said.  Likely voters in all three battleground states were polled
Sept. 9-11, after the Democrats wrapped up their gathering in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  By 51 percent to 46 percent, likely voters in  Florida  said
they had a favorable rather than an unfavorable impression of
Obama. They also viewed Romney favorably by 47 percent to 45
percent, and said he would do a better job than Obama handling
the economy by 47 percent to 46 percent.  Favorable Impression  In Ohio, 51 percent of likely voters had a favorable
impression of Obama while 44 percent were unfavorable; Romney
was viewed as unfavorable by 50 percent and favorable by 40
percent. They favored Obama over Romney on handling the economy
by 48 percent to 44 percent.  Likely voters in Virginia had a favorable impression of
Obama by 53 percent to 43 percent unfavorable, and a favorable
impression of Romney by 46 percent to 45 percent. They split, 45
percent to 45 percent, on which candidate would better handle
the economy,  Obama may have been boosted by an advertising campaign that
he and his supporters waged during the conventions, according to
the Wesleyan Media Project, which tracks advertising. The group
found Obama’s re-election campaign and his allies ran 40,000 ads
on broadcast television and national cable programming between
Aug. 26 and Sept. 8, compared with 18,000 run by Romney and
groups backing his candidacy.  Pro-Obama Advertisers  “During both the Democratic and Republican conventions,
pro-Obama advertisers dominated the airwaves in numerous
markets, including key swing states such as  Colorado ,  Ohio ,
 Nevada , and Virginia,” said Erika Franklin Fowler, co-director
of the Wesleyan Media Project. “This advantage may help to
explain why Obama’s ‘convention bounce’ was larger than
Romney’s.”  The CBS/Times poll surveyed 1,162 likely voters. The
NBC/Journal poll surveyed 980 likely voters in Florida, 979 in
Ohio and 996 in Virginia, and all had margins of error of plus
or minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  