-- Oclaro Rises on Introduction of Products: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2012-09-13T21:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/oclaro-rises-on-introduction-of-products-san-francisco-mover.html
Oclaro Inc. (OCLR) , which makes optical
and laser components for use in telecommunications, medical and
other industries, rose to its highest price in almost five
months after introducing its latest 100G transceiver.  Shares of  Oclaro  rose 11 percent to $3.05 at the close in
 New York , the highest closing price since April 26. The stock
has risen 8 percent this year.  “They had news on their 100G, which is in production
now,” Hamed Khorsand, an analyst at BWS Financial in  Woodland
Hills ,  California , said in a telephone interview. “This shows
their product segment is expanding. That’s given them a pop
today.”  San Jose , California-based Oclaro unveiled a second-
generation 100G CFP transceiver and first-generation CFP2 100G
transceiver for transmissions over standard single-mode fiber.
These new smaller devices unveiled Sept. 11 cut power use and
are designed to meet the needs of higher-speed networks.  Oclaro plans to demonstrate the new transceivers and other
products released this week at the ECOC Exhibition scheduled
Sept. 17 through Sept. 19 in Amsterdam.  “The new products will create a little buzz ahead of the
conference,” Alexander Henderson, an analyst at Needham & Co.
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “There’s been some
strength in the segment, which had been beat up, with both
Finisar and Emcore also higher today.”  Finisar, Emcore  Oclaro competes with Sunnyvale, California-based  Finisar
Corp. (FNSR) , a maker of fiber-optic transmission gear. Finisar climbed
3.5 percent to $15.89 in New York.  Emcore Corp. (EMKR) , an Albuquerque,
New Mexico-based maker of fiber optic and solar photovoltaic
products, rose 1.8 percent to $4.99.  “There was a negative perception already in the market
place for these companies, but optical is back in the groove
with investors again,” Khorsand said. He has a buy rating on
Oclaro with a target price of $6.50 a share.  Through today, the stock has climbed 44 percent from its
2012 low of $2.12 on May 14. The company announced a merger with
Fremont, California-based Opnext Inc. on March 26. The merger
was completed July 24. Khorsand upgraded the stock to a buy from
a hold March 8.  Their merger created the second-largest global provider of
optical components and modules to laser markets and optical
communications businesses.  Oclaro has said “they will get lots of benefits from
integration of Opnext and it will improve profitability,”
Henderson said. “The market had been skeptical and we are in an
environment of economies decelerating.” He rates Oclaro a hold
and doesn’t provide price targets on stocks with such ratings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samantha Zee in  San Francisco  at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor in San Francisco at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  