-- Moguls With Bucks to Burn Bet $75 Million on Broadway
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-09-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/moguls-with-bucks-to-burn-bet-75-million-on-broadway.html
If the silent film legend  Charlie
Chaplin  were speaking today, he might be saying, “Ouch!”  Broadway investors, many of them new to Times Square, have
committed about $75 million to the fall season just getting
under way. Already, it’s off to a shaky start.  Among the shows looking to become the next “Book of Mormon”
blockbuster is “Chaplin,” a $10 million musical that opened
Monday to reviews ranging from tepid to scorching.  The notices came on the heels of bad news from another show
hobbling towards opening night.  On Saturday, the producers of “ Rebecca ,” a $12 million
adaptation of the 1938 Daphne Du Maurier novel, postponed its
November opening, after an earlier postponement last spring.  “Rebecca’s” producers said that a European investor they
declined to name had died over the summer, leaving them $4.5
million short.  The troubled shows are part of a fall season with star-
filled plays, original and brand-name musicals and billionaire
newbie producers getting a crash course in Broadway economics.  ‘Annie’ Revival  The musicals include a revival of  “Annie,”  capitalized at
about $12 million, and an adaptation of the 1983 movie “A
Christmas Story,” that will cost $9.25 million.  Among the new plays are  Craig Wright ’s comic drama
“ Grace ,” starring  Paul Rudd  and Ed Asner, budgeted at $2.25
million to $2.75 million; “ The Performers ,” billed as a
romantic comedy about porn stars, with Henry Winkler and Alicia
Silverstone ($3 million); and David Mamet’s “ The Anarchist ,”
with  Patti LuPone  as an incarcerated anarchist and Debra Winger
as her parole officer ($2.6 million).  Play revivals include Mamet’s “ Glengarry Glen Ross”  with
 Al Pacino  ($3.3 million) and “ Edward Albee ’s Who’s Afraid of
Virginia Woolf?” ($2.7 million).  ( Bloomberg News  obtained budget figures, which are
approximate, from producers and Securities and Exchange
Commission filings. Nonprofit productions and shows opening off-
Broadway are not included.)  Melinda and Robert Rich Jr., whose Rich Products Corp. is a
closely held frozen foods manufacturer based in Buffalo, are
earning their first lead producer credit on “Chaplin.” John Caudwell, a billionaire U.K. phone titan, is also on the team.  Hanging Tough  “We are going forward,” said Susanne Tighe, a spokeswoman
for the show. That often translates into thousands of dollars
spent on advertising in the  New York  Times, among other forums,
in a usually quixotic effort to offset a negative Times review.  Times chief drama critic Ben Brantley called “Chaplin”
“soppy.”  The Riches “surrounded themselves with very competent
people,” said Steven Baruch, who with three partners has been
presenting shows off-Broadway and on Broadway since 1985. They
were also among the three-dozen credited producers of “Leap of
Faith,” which lost its $14.7 million capitalization last
season. The Riches and Caudwell also had stakes in that show.  Billionaires Betsy DeVos and her husband, Richard, the
former president of the direct-sales company Amway Corp. and the
son of its founder, are first-time producers of the musical
“ Scandalous .” Co-written by Kathie Lee Gifford, it’s about the
early 20th-century evangelist Aimee Semple McPherson. It played
regionally to mixed notices, most recently at the 5th Ave.
Theatre in  Seattle .  Starting Fresh  “They saw the show in Seattle and wanted to support it,”
said Jeffrey Finn, a producer and general manager serving as the
production’s executive producer. He said “Scandalous” has been
reworked since Seattle, when it was known as “Saving Aimee.”  Gifford’s an ambassador of uncommon reach. She’s promoted
it on the fourth hour of NBC’s “Today” show, which she co-
hosts, and at a recent group sales event at Sardi’s restaurant.  Stephanie Lee, president of Group Sales Box Office, was
impressed by Gifford’s passion and the songs performed by lead
actress Carolee Carmello.  “Rebecca” lead producer Ben Sprecher said that he’s
postponed rehearsals for two weeks, but has yet to announce a
new opening. He’s now in  Europe  negotiating with the estate of
the unidentified expired money man, said a production spokesman,
Marc Thibodeau.  Tough Sell  Raising funds from new sources is a tall order, said Eva
Price, a producer who isn’t involved with the show.  “If it’s not in place and someone is starting from
scratch, I would be concerned,” Price said.  In stark contrast, “Annie,” well-timed and well-known, is
the sales leader of the season.  “They came out of the starting gate months ago, and at the
time we didn’t have a new or revived musical we could facilitate
group sales for,” Lee said. “It’s bringing a generation of
young theatergoers who haven’t had the opportunity to see it.”  Producer Arielle Tepper Madover said that the 1977 hit was
the first musical she saw, at age 8, and that it had inspired
her to work in theater. After the real estate heiress imported
several acclaimed dramas from  London , it’s the first musical
she’s shepherding to Broadway.  Debbie Bisno, an “Annie” producer (and the lead producer
of “Grace”) said she’s organizing a “Yappy Hour” mixer at a
midtown hotel for “Annie” fans and their dogs.  That should give competing producers paws.  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on a $2.5 million
Bugatti and  Lance Esplund  on art.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net  