-- Oil Climbs to Four-Month High on Fed Stimulus Plan
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-09-13T20:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/oil-rises-to-four-month-high-on-mideast-unrest-fed-meeti.html
Oil advanced to a four-month high
as the  Federal Reserve  announced a plan to buy mortgage
securities and on concern that protests in the Middle East and
North Africa may lead to supply disruptions.  Futures rose 1.3 percent after the Fed said it will expand
its holdings of long-term securities with open-ended purchases
of $40 billion of mortgage debt a month to boost growth.
Protesters tried to storm the U.S. Embassy in Sana’a, Yemen. A
Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi,  Libya , killed
the American ambassador, Chris Stevens, and three colleagues.  “In the long run this should be bullish because what they
are promising is the gradual increase in stimulus,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-
based energy consultant. “The $40 billion of mortgage debt each
month will increase liquidity.”  Crude oil for October delivery advanced $1.30 to $98.31 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since May 4. Futures are up 9 percent from this time
last year.  Futures breached $97.84, the 61.8 percent retracement level
on a Fibonacci study of the decline from the year’s high of
$110.55 a barrel on March 1 to the low of $77.28 on June 28,
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a  New York- 
based hedge fund that focuses on energy.  “The rise is more technical than anything else,” Kilduff
said. “We’ve broken through important resistance.”  Brent Crude  Brent oil for October settlement increased 94 cents, or 0.8
percent, to end the session at $116.90 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange, the highest level since May
2. October futures expired today. The more-active November Brent
contract climbed 55 cents, or 0.5 percent, to settle at $115.88.  The European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate oil traded in  New York  was at $18.59, down from
$18.95 yesterday.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said it would likely hold
the federal funds rate near zero “at least through mid-2015.”
Since January, the Fed had said the rate was likely to stay low
at least through late 2014.  The Fed now expects the job-market outlook to improve more
swiftly by 2014, with unemployment forecast to fall to 6.7
percent to 7.3 percent, compared with 7 percent to 7.7 percent
in the central bank’s June projections. In 2015, unemployment
will fall to 6 percent to 6.8 percent.  Growth will improve to as much as 3 percent next year and
as much as 3.8 percent in 2014, up from upper estimates of 2.8
percent and 3.5 percent previously.  Market Reaction  “The feeling is that this is good for the  U.S. economy  and
the markets are reacting accordingly,” said  Rick Mueller , a
director of oil markets at Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield,  Massachusetts .  Equities rallied, sending benchmark indexes to the highest
levels since 2007, on the Fed announcement. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 (SPX)  increased 1.6 percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  rose 1.5 percent.  “The equity markets liked the FOMC decision and the crude
oil market is getting a lift from that,” said  Tim Evans , an
energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York.  Concern that the stimulus measures will debase the value of
the U.S. currency sent the dollar lower. The greenback dropped
as much as 0.8 percent to $1.3002 against the euro. A weaker
dollar bolsters the appeal of dollar-denominated raw materials
as an investment.  In the  Middle East , assailants breached the U.S. Embassy’s
security perimeter in Sana’a and set two cars on fire as
security forces fired into the air to disperse the crowd,
according to Yousef Al-Ahjan, one of the demonstrators.  Street Protests  There were also demonstrations in  Egypt  and  Iran  against a
film seen as insulting to Islam. In Cairo, protesters set fire
to two police vehicles as authorities tried to keep them away
from the U.S. Embassy. At least 216 people were injured in
clashes near the U.S. embassy, Ahmed el-Ansari, vice president
of the Egyptian Ambulance Organization said.  The attack in Libya bore the hallmarks of al-Qaeda and may
have been carried out by the group’s North Africa affiliate to
mark the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the U.S.,
said Michigan Republican Representative Mike Rogers, chairman of
the House intelligence committee.  “Anytime you have attacks in the Middle East oil-market
participants will pay attention,” Mueller said. “It doesn’t
matter that the countries affected by the violence aren’t major
oil producers, with the exception of Libya. It feeds into
geopolitical concerns.”  Mideast Supply  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil production and held 52
percent of proved reserves in 2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy, which is released each June.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 701,567
contracts as of 4:22 p.m. Volume totaled 518,797 contracts
yesterday, 2.3 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.59 million, the highest level since May 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  