-- Oil Trades Near Two-Day Low as Supply Gain Counters Fed O
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-09-13T12:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-as-supply-gain-counters-fed-o.html
Oil traded near its highest level
in almost three weeks amid concern that protests in Yemen and
 Libya  may threaten Middle East supplies and hopes that the
 Federal Reserve  will renew stimulus efforts.  Futures were little changed after dropping for the first
time in six days yesterday. Protesters attempted to storm the
U.S. embassy in Sana’a, Yemen, two days after four people were
killed in an attack on an American diplomatic mission in Libya.
The  Federal Open Market Committee  may announce additional
stimulus measures at the end of a two-day meeting today. U.S.
crude inventory levels unexpectedly rose last week, Energy
Department data showed yesterday.  “There is absolutely no room for another disruption in any
oil-producing country,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of
research group Petromatrix GmbH, said today by telephone from
Zug,  Switzerland . “There is some more quantitative easing
priced in, there is some geopolitical premium priced in. We need
to get the FOMC out of the way and then re-focus on the
geopolitics or fundamentals.”  Crude for October delivery was at $97.37 a barrel, up 36
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 1:40 p.m. London time. The contract rose as high as $98.06
yesterday, its strongest since Aug. 23. Front-month prices are
down 1.5 percent this year.  Brent oil for October settlement advanced 94 cents to
$116.96 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $19.56, from $18.95 yesterday.  Gasoline Stockpiles  Oil in  New York  has technical resistance along the upper
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, at around $99.20 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures have
halted advances near this indicator since July. Sell orders tend
to be clustered near chart-resistance levels.  Demonstrators in Sana’a breached the U.S. compound’s
security perimeter and set two cars ablaze, as security
personnel fired into the air to disperse the crowd, said Yousef
Al-Ahjan, who joined the rally. One protester was killed and
five injured, Al Arabiya television said.  The attack in Libya that killed the U.S. ambassador and
three other American personnel bore the hallmarks of al-Qaeda,
and may have been carried out by the group’s North Africa
affiliate to mark the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks on the
U.S., said Michigan Republican Representative Mike Rogers,
chairman of the House intelligence committee.  Crude inventories climbed by  1.99 million barrels  last
week, the Energy Department said. They were forecast to fall by
2.9 million barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. gasoline supplies fell  1.18 million barrels  last week,
the Energy Department report showed. They were forecast to drop
by 1.7 million, according to the survey. Distillate supplies, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, rose 1.48 million
barrels, compared with a projected decline of 500,000.  The FOMC will probably announce a third round of bond
purchases after its meeting and extend the duration of its zero-
interest-rate policy into 2015, according to two-thirds of the
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  