-- Oil Rises to Four-Month High on Stimulus, Middle East
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-09-14T07:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/oil-trades-near-four-month-high-on-stimulus-plan-middle-east.html
Oil rose to the highest level in
four months on speculation that economic stimulus in the U.S.
will boost fuel demand. Concern that unrest in the  Middle East 
and North Africa will disrupt supplies also buoyed prices.  Futures advanced as much as 1.4 percent, erasing their
decline for the year. The Fed said yesterday it will make open-
ended purchases of $40 billion a month of mortgage debt to boost
the economy. Protesters attempted to storm the U.S. embassy in
Yemen and demonstrators marched in Egypt and  Iran  against a film
seen as insulting to Islam. Iran is raising tension by expanding
its nuclear program, according to Robert Wood, the U.S. envoy to
the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  “We always have initial optimism on stimulus programs --
the question is, how long it will last?” said  Jonathan Barratt ,
the chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity
newsletter in Sydney. “Middle East geopolitical concerns should
add a premium of about $5 to $6.”  Crude for October delivery climbed as much as $1.44 to
$99.75 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $99.53 at 3:13 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday increased 1.3 percent to $98.31, the highest
close since May 4. Prices are up 3.4 percent this week, set for
the sixth gain in seven weeks, and 0.9 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange rose as much as $1.11, or 1 percent, to
$116.99 a barrel. The October contract, which expired yesterday,
gained 94 cents to close at $116.90. The front-month price for
the European benchmark crude was at a $16.91 premium to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade.  Demonstrations  The Fed said it will continue buying assets and employ
other policy tools as appropriate “if the outlook for the labor
market does not improve substantially.”  Demonstrators in the Yemeni capital, Sana’a, breached the
U.S. embassy compound’s security perimeter and set two cars
ablaze yesterday, according to Yousef Al-Ahjan, who joined the
rally. One protester was killed and five injured, Al Arabiya
television said.  At least 216 people in  Egypt  were injured in a third day of
clashes near the U.S. embassy in Cairo, said Ahmed el-Ansari,
vice-president of the Egyptian Ambulance Organization. There
were also demonstrations outside the Swiss mission in Tehran,
which represents U.S. interests in Iran.  The violence in the Middle East and North Africa, which
hold more than half of the world’s oil reserves, was prompted by
extracts of a film that portrays Muhammad. For Muslims, any
depiction of the prophet is sacrilegious. The unrest also
follows the killing of the U.S. ambassador to  Libya , Chris Stevens, and three officials during an attack on consular
buildings in Benghazi on Sept. 11. U.S. lawmakers said groups
tied to al-Qaeda may have been involved.  Nuclear Program  Iran’s decision to double the number of installed
centrifuges, the fast-spinning machines that enrich uranium, at
its Fordo site is provocative, Wood said in prepared remarks in
Vienna yesterday. While the U.S. and  Israel  suspect Iran is
hiding nuclear-weapons work, the Persian Gulf nation says its
program is peaceful.  The dollar extended losses for a fourth day against the
euro, boosting investor’s demand for commodities denominated in
the U.S. currency. It slid to $1.3042 versus the common
currency, the weakest since May.  Oil’s rally in  New York  may stall at technical resistance
along the upper Bollinger Band, around $99 a barrel today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sell orders tend to be
clustered near chart-resistance levels. The 14-day relative
strength index has risen above 68, the highest since Aug. 22. A
reading above 70 will show prices have climbed too quickly for
further gains to be sustained.  Futures may decline next week on speculation U.S. crude and
fuel inventories will increase as production in the  Gulf of
Mexico  continues its recovery from Hurricane Isaac, a Bloomberg
News survey showed. Nineteen of 36 analysts and traders, or 53
percent, predict oil will drop through Sept. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at   manderson34@bloomberg.net  