-- Honeywell CEO Says U.S. Risks Recession With Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   T r i s h   R e g a n
-- 2012-09-13T17:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/honeywell-ceo-says-u-s-risks-recession-with-fiscal-cliff.html
The U.S. risks triggering a global
recession unless the White House and Congress avert $1.2
trillion in spending cuts set for January,  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  Chief Executive Officer  David Cote  said.  Congress agreed to the cuts as part of last year’s Budget
Control Act in an attempt to require lawmakers who had reached a
stalemate on lowering government debt to work out an agreement
that would replace the across-the-board reductions.  U.S. debt  should be curbed with long-term alterations, not
abrupt changes, Cote, a member of President  Barack Obama ’s
deficit-reduction commission, said today at the Bloomberg
Markets 50 Summit in New York. Congress’s wrangling over raising
the debt ceiling last year has sapped confidence in politicians,
Cote said.  “If the debt ceiling was playing with fire, this is
playing with nitroglycerin,” he said. “There’s the opportunity
for our government to spark a global recession with how they
handle this fiscal cliff.”  The so-called cliff refers to the automatic spending
reductions as well as the expiration of tax cuts approved under
President  George W. Bush , also set to end in January.  Companies are refraining from investments and hiring to see
how Congress deals with the budget and the expiring tax breaks,
and the delays hurt growth, said Cote. Last year, he criticized
the debt-ceiling stalemate as causing “job destruction.”  Lost Decade  The U.S. needs to act now to avoid following Europe, which
is in recession this year and risks repeating Japan’s so-called
lost decade of scant growth, Cote said.  Cote said U.S. debt as a percentage of the economy is at
its worst level since World War II and the country is
accumulating debt at the same rate as Spain, which is grappling
with austerity measures and bailouts.  The U.S. has avoided crisis so far because of the strong
dollar and low  interest rates  as investors see the country as a
safe haven, Cote said. The market could quickly turn against the
U.S., he said.  “That stuff is true until it’s not,” Cote said. “When
all of a sudden it’s not, it happens overnight. The herd turns
against you.”  The government needs to make tough decisions to overhaul
the tax system and benefit programs like Medicare, Cote said.
The problem is the U.S., like other major democracies in Europe,
Japan and India, suffers from gridlock, he said.  “Both sides need to go into it knowing the country is at
stake,” he said. “This is not just some ideological
argument.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
 Trish Regan  in New York at 
 tregan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  