-- Hong Kong Stocks Fall on China Stimulus Bets Before Fed
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-09-13T08:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/hong-kong-stocks-swing-between-gain-loss-ahead-of-fed.html
Hong Kong   stocks  fell as investors
awaited the  Federal Reserve ’s announcement today and after a
Chinese newspaper commentary said massive stimulus measures
would threaten the nation’s sustainable growth.  Belle International Holdings Ltd. (1880) , a footwear maker that
gets most of its revenue from  China , sank 4 percent. Anhui Conch
Cement Co., China’s biggest supplier of the building material,
fell 1.1 percent. ZTE Corp., a telecommunications-systems maker,
rose 2.8 percent after setting up China’s first fourth-
generation commercial wireless data network.  Sino-Ocean Land
Holdings Ltd. (3377)  jumped 6.2 percent after the Chinese developer’s
equity rating was raised to buy from neutral at Citigroup Inc.  The Hang Seng Index fell 0.1 percent to 20,047.63 at the
close, after rising as much as 0.4 percent and swinging between
gains and losses at least 12 times. More than twice as many
stocks dropped as rose on the 49-company gauge. Volume on the
measure was 11 percent below its 30-day average ahead of the U.S.
central bank meeting, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Fed plans to issue a statement today after the
conclusion of a two-day meeting, followed by the release of
policy makers’ forecasts for unemployment, inflation and the
expected path of the federal funds rate over the next several
years. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  plans to hold a press conference
afterward.  “Investors are still waiting for Bernanke’s edict,” said
Francis Lun, managing director at Lyncean Holdings Ltd., a Hong
Kong-based brokerage. “Don’t expect too much from China. The
lesson is that if it relaxes policy, all hell will break lose.
If you tighten control, everything will collapse. They have
never managed to find the middle ground, the better choice is to
do nothing and let the economy take care of itself.”  Equity Valuations  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies,
also known as the H-share index, fell 0.1 percent to 9,480.27.
The Hang Seng Index  traded  at 10.6 times estimated earnings on
average yesterday, compared with 9.7 for the Shanghai Composite
Index and 13.9 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPXL1)   The Hong Kong gauge climbed 10 percent from this year’s low
on June 4 through yesterday as negative economic reports
heightened optimism central banks will act to boost growth.  Futures on the  S&P 500  slid 0.2 percent today. The index
added 0.2 percent in  New York  yesterday, when the Fed began a
two-day meeting. The central bank will probably announce a third
round of bond purchases today, according to almost two-thirds of
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Stocks also rose after Germany’s Federal Constitutional
Court dismissed motions that sought to stop the government from
contributing to the bailout fund for debt-stricken nations in
the  euro zone .  Easing Expectations  “Looks like people are expecting some form of easing, and
the market will wait for that uncertainty to be cleared,” said
Matt Riordan, a portfolio manager who helps manage about $6.5
billion in Sydney at Paradice Investment Management Pty.
“Ultimately they will do something, but it’s an issue of timing
whether they will do it now or they will wait toward the end of
the year,” he said of the Fed deliberations.  In China, massive stimulus measures would be
“detrimental” to sustainable economic growth, the official
Xinhua News Agency wrote in a commentary. That came after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  on Sept. 11 signaled there’s more room for
fiscal and monetary policy to meet growth targets.  Belle sank 4 percent to HK$14.02, while  Anhui Conch 
retreated 1.1 percent to HK$22.65. Guangzhou Automobile Group
Co., a Chinese partner of Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co.,
declined 2.9 percent to HK$5.36.  Neptune Soars  Among stocks that rose, Neptune Group Ltd., a leisure and
gaming company, jumped 15 percent to 19.3 Hong Kong cents after
saying it expects full-year profit to rise “significantly.”  ZTE gained 2.8 percent to HK$10.86. The company set up
China’s first 4G wireless data network for the Beijing municipal
government. The company began trials of the network at the end
of last year and today announced the beginning of commercial
service.  Sino-Ocean Land surged 6.2 percent to HK$3.95 after its
equity rating was upgraded by Citigroup, which yesterday said
the developer’s sales and margins should have a positive
surprise against bearish market assumptions.  Other Chinese developers gained after  Securities Times 
reported the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen increased the
maximum housing fund loan for families to 900,000  yuan  from
800,000 yuan ($142,000 from $126,400). Guangzhou R&F Properties
Ltd., a property company in the southern Chinese city, climbed 3
percent to HK$9.39. China Resources Land Ltd. gained 4.5 percent
to HK$17.24.  Futures on the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  declined 0.1 percent to
20,041. The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  sank 0.7 percent to 18.74,
indicating traders expect a swing of 5.4 percent for the equity
benchmark in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  