-- Yankees Beat Red Sox 2-0 to Tie Orioles for Lead in AL East
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-14T08:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/orioles-defeat-rays-3-2-to-retake-al-east-lead-over-yankees.html
The New York Yankees beat the
Boston Red Sox 2-0 to stay tied atop the American League East
division with the Baltimore Orioles, who defeated the Tampa Bay
Rays 3-2 in 14 innings.  Andruw Jones ’s sacrifice fly in the fourth inning scored
 Alex Rodriguez  to give the Yankees the lead last night at Fenway
Park in Boston.  Derek Jeter ’s run-scoring single, which tied him
with  Willie Mays  on the all-time hits list, helped the Yankees
take two of the three games in the series.  Manny Machado delivered the winning run-scoring single for
the Orioles, who completed a three-game Major League Baseball
sweep of the Rays at Camden Yards in Baltimore.  The Orioles and Yankees improved their records to 81-62.
The Yankees next play three games at home against the Rays (77-
66), who are four games behind in the AL East and the chase for
a wild-card spot. The  Oakland Athletics  (82-61) lead the wild-
card standings after a 6-0 loss yesterday to the Los Angeles
Angels, who are 3 1/2 games back in the wild-card race.  The top two non-division winners in each league earn wild-
card spots in the postseason.  Jeter’s seventh-inning single gave him 3,283 hits in his
career, tying him with 24-time All-Star Mays, the former San
Francisco Giants outfielder elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame
in 1979.  The Rays held a 1-0 lead until the bottom of the seventh
inning, when Orioles catcher Taylor Teagarden hit a two-run
double to put the home team ahead.  Tampa Bay tied the game in the top of the eighth inning as
Desmond Jennings walked, moved to second on a passed ball, stole
third and scored on an infield single by  Ben Zobrist .  The Orioles failed to score in the bottom of the 13th
inning, when they loaded the bases with no outs, then pulled out
the win in the next inning as  Adam Jones  walked with two outs
and Endy Chavez and Machado followed with back-to-back singles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  