-- Mortgage Buybacks to Cost $3.4 Billion from Freddie Mac
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-09-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/mortgage-buybacks-to-cost-3-4-billion-from-freddie-mac.html
Freddie Mac  may win an additional
$3.4 billion in mortgage buybacks from banks under increased
scrutiny of defaulted loans originated during the housing bubble,
according to a  U.S. auditor ’s report.  “Initial results already show substantial recoveries are
being achieved,” the Federal Housing Finance Agency inspector
general’s office said today in the report, which cited the
taxpayer-owned mortgage  financier ’s move this year to expand
reviews of loans issued from 2005 to 2007.  Freddie Mac could save $800 million to $1.2 billion for
reviews completed this year alone, according to the report. That
money will benefit U.S. taxpayers, who have spent $190 billion
to aid Freddie Mac and larger rival  Fannie Mae  since they were
taken into federal conservatorship in 2008.  The two government-sponsored enterprises provide liquidity
by buying mortgages and packaging them into securities on which
they guarantee interest and principal payments. They can force
banks to repurchase loans if reviews find the underwriting
didn’t meet standards set out in sales contracts.  The increased scrutiny cited in the FHFA report applies to
defaulted loans already owned or guaranteed by the GSEs. In
response to bank complaints that the repurchase requests were
too aggressive, the agency this week announced changes in review
procedures for loans delivered after Jan. 1.  Potential Defects  Under the new system, Freddie Mac of McLean,  Virginia , and
Washington-based  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  will use data collected on the loans
they buy to spot potential defects. They will review samples
within three months of purchase instead of waiting until
borrowers default, and loans with three years of consecutive on-
time payments will be exempt from buybacks unless there has been
fraud.  The two companies asked banks to buy back mortgages with an
unpaid principal balance of $18.9 billion in the first two
quarters of this year.  Banks usually end up paying about half of the unpaid
principal balance when a putback demand is successful, according
to the companies.  The original audit of Freddie Mac’s loan review practices,
published in September 2011, was prompted by auditors’ concerns
that the firm wasn’t aggressive enough in seeking repurchases
from  Bank of America Corp . for defaults on loans issued by
Countrywide Financial Corp.  Freddie Mac and Bank of America, which bought Countrywide
in 2008, settled those claims for $1.35 billion in January 2011.  The settlement means Countrywide loans won’t be subject to
Freddie Mac’s increased scrutiny.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  