-- Emerging Stocks Gain for Sixth Day as Fed Extends Easing Steps
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-13T21:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/most-emerging-stocks-rise-before-federal-reserve-policy-decision.html
Emerging-market stocks increased
for a sixth day, the longest stretch of gains this year, after
the  Federal Reserve  unveiled new easing measures to boost growth
and reduce unemployment.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.4 percent to 982,
rising to a four-month high. Brazil’s Bovespa stock  index (VXEEM)  surged
3.4 percent, led by  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , the
country’s second-biggest steelmaker. Equities gauges in  South
Africa  and  Argentina  gained. The Shanghai Composite Index
retreated 0.8 percent, the most in two weeks.  The Fed will expand its holdings of long-term securities
with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage debt a
month in a third round of quantitative easing, the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said in a statement at the end of a two-day
meeting in Washington. China’s central bank issued 28-day
reverse-repurchase contracts for the first time in a decade, a
temporary measure to boost liquidity in the financial system.  Emerging-market stocks are “gaining on this news,
especially seen in the context of central banks around the world
announcing easing measures,”  Alec Young , a New York-based
global equity strategist at S&P Capital IQ, said by phone.  The FOMC also said it would likely hold the federal funds
rate near zero “at least through mid-2015.” The rate was
likely to stay low at least through late 2014, the central bank
had said earlier in the year.  EM ETF Gains  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, increased 2.7
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, declined 4.4 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity index gained for a sixth day for
its longest winning streak in seven months, with Usiminas
jumping 13 percent and online retailer  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo 
gaining 8.5 percent.  South Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index gained 0.4
percent. Egypt’s EGX 30 Index sank 1.1 percent, the most since
July 25.  The MSCI emerging-market gauge has climbed 7.2 percent this
year, trailing a 12 percent gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed-country shares. The emerging-nation gauge rallied the
past six days as European policy makers announced a bond-
purchase program and China’s top planning agency approved
proposals to build rail, roads and urban infrastructure.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over  U.S. Treasuries  rose 3 basis points to 294, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Korea Rates  South Korea’s government bonds tumbled after the central
bank left  interest rates  unchanged, bucking estimates for a 25
basis-point reduction. The yield on 3.25 percent bonds due June
2015 climbed seven basis points to 2.88 percent, Korea Exchange
Inc. prices show.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  and Bank of Communications
Co. dropped 1.4 percent in Hong Kong trading.  “The extension of the tenor of reverse repos suggests that
policy makers are continuing to favor temporary measures over
cutting the required reserve ratio, which would be a permanent
solution,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior strategist at  Credit
Agricole  in Hong Kong, wrote in a report today. “This means
that interbank liquidity will likely remain relatively tight.”  India’s rupee weakened 0.3 percent against the dollar after
HSBC Holdings Plc cut its forecast for the nation’s economic
growth in the year through March 2013 to 5.7 percent from 6.2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  