-- U.K. Stocks Advance the Most in a Week; Rolls Royce Gains
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-09-13T15:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/most-u-k-stocks-decline-before-fed-policy-decision.html
U.K. stocks  climbed to a three-week
high before the U.S. Federal Reserve releases a statement that
may initiate another round of bond buying to spur economic
growth.  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc rose 3.1 percent for the biggest
advance on the  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)  Resolution Ltd. and  Vodafone
Group  Plc also advanced.  BAE Systems (BA/)  Plc dropped 7.3 percent
after entering merger talks with France’s European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co.  Next Plc (NXT)  declined 7.2 percent after the
retailer reported “disappointing” sales growth.  The FTSE 100 Index gained 37.84 points, or 0.7 percent, to
5,819.92 at the close in  London . The broader FTSE All-Share
Index climbed 0.6 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
added 0.2 percent.  “The consensus is that more quantitative easing is coming
and so some investors have attempted to jump the gun by picking
up equities ahead of the decision,” said  Angus Campbell , head
of market analysis at Capital Spreads. “Today’s session has by
no means been a convincing rally, but once again we’ve seen
willingness from buyers to try and push beyond recent highs.”  The FTSE 100 has increased 11 percent since the 2012 low on
June 1 amid speculation central banks will do more to support
growth and stabilize financial markets. The gauge last week
climbed 1.5 percent after the  European Central Bank  agreed to an
unlimited bond-buying plan to help lower borrowing costs.  Fed Stimulus  The Federal Open Market Committee’s two-day meeting began
in  Washington  yesterday. Officials may agree on a third round of
bond purchases, according to almost two-thirds of economists in
a Bloomberg survey.  The previous two rounds of quantitative easing totaling
$2.3 trillion have failed to revive the labor market, which Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month is a “grave concern.”  Rolls-Royce climbed 3.1 percent to 854 pence, the biggest
advance in seven weeks amid merger activity in the European
defense sector.  BAE Systems, Europe’s largest defense company, yesterday
confirmed it is in merger talks with France’s EADS. The news
sent the shares down 7.3 percent to 337.1 pence today, paring
some of yesterday’s 11 percent rally,  Barclays Plc recommended selling BAE shares “in the near
term,” even as they retained an overweight rating, similar to
buy, on the stock. The shares had risen 28 percent in 2012 based
on yesterday’s closing price.  Merger Savings  “The market may have to revisit its initial price
reaction,” wrote Barclays analysts including Carter Copeland in
a report to clients dated today. “We’re waiting for additional
details around the sources and anticipated timing of the savings
before we draw any firm conclusions.”  Vodafone Group, the second-heaviest weighted stock on the
FTSE 100, gained 1.9 percent to 177.35 pence. Resolution, the
insurance buyout firm founded by  Clive Cowdery , gained 1.9
percent to 221.4 pence.  Elsewhere, Next dropped 7.2 percent to 3,320 pence after
the second-largest clothing retailer said the period since the
end of July has been “unusually quiet.” The company still
reported first-half profit that beat analyst estimates.  Debenhams Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest department-store
chain, fell 1.8 percent to 98.25 pence. Marks & Spencer Group
Plc, the country’s biggest clothing retailer, slid 1.3 percent
to 369.7 pence.  Home Retail Group Plc declined 4.6 percent to 94.85 pence
as second quarter sales at the company’s Homebase unit fell 3.7
percent, missing analysts estimates for a 2.6 percent drop.  Royalty Fees  Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG)  dropped 7.2 percent to
566 pence after the company, which supplies components to Apple
Inc., said its royalty rate had dropped as more people bought
cheaper smartphones.  The shares soared to the highest price in 18 years in March
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said royalties from designs used
in Apple’s iPad and other products would boost earnings.  Premier Farnell Plc (PFL)  rallied 11 percent to 190 pence. The
company said it expects growth to return in the second half of
the year after reporting a 0.4 percent increase in year-on-year
revenue increase in August.  Centaur Media Plc (CAU)  jumped 9.5 percent to 40.25 pence after
reporting an 18 percent increase in full-year adjusted earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to 11.7
million pounds ($19 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  