-- House Passes Bill to Replace Stolen Valor Act
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-09-13T19:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/house-passes-bill-to-replace-stolen-valor-act.html
The U.S. House passed a bill that
would make it a crime to seek to gain by lying about receiving
military honors.  The measure, which passed with bipartisan support, 410-3,
is intended to replace the Stolen Valor Act of 2005 that the
 Supreme Court  struck down this year on free-speech grounds,
ruling that people can’t be prosecuted for lying about receiving
a military medal.  Nevada Republican Joe Heck, the bill’s sponsor, said last
month that the measure would be constitutional because it
narrows the scope by focusing on the fraud aspect. Violators
would be subject to a fine, imprisonment for as long as a year,
or both, according to the bill.  “This House has the opportunity to once again show our
service members and veterans that we value the magnitude of
their sacrifice, while at the same time protecting the
constitutional rights that they fought so hard to protect,”
Heck said during floor debate earlier this week.  The bill would ensure “that the Medal of Honor, the Purple
Heart and other military awards will be shielded from fraud,”
Arkansas Republican Tim Griffin said in an Aug. 1 statement.  Supporters of the measure include the Association of the
United States Navy, Association of the United States Army, the
American Legion and FRA, a group that advocates for current and
former members of the Navy, Marine Corps and Coast Guard.  ACLU Opposition  The  American Civil Liberties Union , which called the
Supreme Court decision on the Stolen Valor Act a victory for
free speech, opposes the bill. “We continue to have concerns,
but the bill’s a marked improvement,” Gabe Rottman, legislative
counsel at the ACLU’s Washington office, said in a Sept. 7
interview. “We would prefer Congress not take action.”  While the White House hasn’t taken a position on the
legislation, the Obama administration defended the broader 2005
Stolen Valor Act before the Supreme Court.  The bill is H.R. 1775.  For more information, see the  BGOV Bill Summary .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  