-- Philippine Bonds, Peso Decline as Inflation Forecasts Raised
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   Y a p
-- 2012-09-13T10:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/philippine-bonds-peso-decline-as-inflation-forecasts-raised.html
Philippine bonds and the peso fell
as the central bank raised its inflation forecasts for this year
and next after holding  interest rates  at a record low.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  kept its overnight borrowing
rate at 3.75 percent, a decision predicted by 16 of 20
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Inflation may average 3.4
percent this year and 4.1 percent in 2013, compared with earlier
projections of 3.1 percent and 3.2 percent, respectively, Deputy
Governor Diwa Guinigundo said today, citing higher  oil prices 
and supply disruptions after last month’s floods. Policy makers
aim to contain price gains between 3 percent and 5 percent.  “While the inflation forecasts are still within their
target, they seem to be more cautious now given the current
risks and those in the pipeline,” said Radhika Rao, an
economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore .  The yield on the Philippine government’s 5 percent bonds
due August 2018 rose two basis points, 0.02 percentage point, to
4.52 percent as of 4:12 p.m. in  Manila , according to Tradition
Financial Services.  The peso fell 0.4 percent to 41.76 per dollar, prices from
Tullett Prebon Plc show. Onshore trading in the currency, which
reached a four-year high of 41.445 yesterday, ended before the
central bank announced its rate decision. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of  exchange-rate  swings used to price
options, was unchanged at 5.5 percent.  No New Stimulus  The  Philippines  doesn’t need additional monetary stimulus
and is prepared to “recalibrate” existing measures to deal
with capital flows if needed, said Guinigundo. Foreign funds
added $2.14 billion to holdings of Philippine stocks so far this
year, more than fourfold the amount a year earlier, fueling
currency gains that threaten to hurt exports. Policy makers will
curb excessive volatility in the exchange rate as it tends to
disrupt business activity, he said.  Bonds also fell as the nation prepares to sell debt to
individual investors, boosting the supply of fixed-income
securities in the market.  The government has mandated  Land Bank  of the Philippines
and  Development Bank  of the Philippines for the sale of retail
bonds, Deputy Treasurer Eduardo Mendiola said this week. The
Bureau of Treasury will probably sell 25-year notes, he said,
without saying how much money will be raised or giving a
timeframe for the issuance. The government sold a record 179.8
billion pesos ($4.31 billion) of securities in February.  Investors “are pricing a supply risk with the upcoming
retail bond issuance,” said Jan Briace Santos, a fixed-income
trader who helps manage the equivalent of $17 billion at BPI
Asset Management Inc. in Manila. “They’re cautious in buying,
especially longer tenors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  