-- Plan B Leads Mercury Shortlist; Kate Bush Snubbed
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-09-13T10:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/plan-b-leads-mercury-shortlist-kate-bush-snubbed.html
Plan B, Jessie Ware and Alt-J lead
this year’s shortlist for the  Barclaycard Mercury Prize , which
again has snubbed commercially successful acts such as Kate Bush, Coldplay, Emeli Sande and Florence & the Machine.  The Mercury, for the best British or Irish album, has often
been given to new or less-well-known acts. Still, the shortlist
of 12, announced last night, is one of the most obscure in the
prize’s 20-year history.  The award pits different genres against one another,
ranging from folk and jazz to hard rock and classical. The
winner receives 20,000 pounds ($32,230), although the boost from
album sales can be worth much more.  Ben Drew, better known as Plan B, has an album
soundtracking his film “Ill Manors” about urban crime and
unrest. Jessie Ware is praised by the judges in a statement for
her “album of sensuous and emotive pop” while Alt-J makes
electronic music such as the single “Breezeblocks.”  Among acts not included: singer-songwriter Lettie,  Paul Weller , Carter Tutti Void, Hot Chip, the Horrors and Bombay
Bicycle Club.  P.J. Harvey won last year’s prize, beating other artists
including Adele, Elbow and  Anna Calvi . The 12 shortlisted albums
in 2011 sold an additional 400,000 copies between the list being
announced in July last year and the ceremony, the U.K. Official
Charts Co. said in an e-mail.  The Mercury focuses on musical quality and doesn’t take
into account sales, media profile or live performances,
according to a statement by the judges. Commercial acts such as
Adele,  Amy Winehouse  and Robbie Williams have often lost out to
cutting-edge performers such as Harvey.  Surprise Winners  In 2010,  London  band the xx triumphed with its debut CD of
understated indie rock. Its new album isn’t on the 2012 list.
There were surprise winners in 2009 (Speech Debelle), 2008
(Elbow) and 2007 (Klaxons).  Blur and Pulp were beaten by the so-hip-it-hurts M People
in 1994,  Robbie Williams  by too-cool-for-school Gomez in 1998.
Both victors faltered after. The mercurial award is often seen
as an albatross that also finished off Roni Size & Reprazent,
Speech Debelle and Talvin Singh.  The Mercury organizers have faced calls for more openness
about the judging (the panel is made up of musicians, executives
and writers whose names aren’t disclosed), selection process and
involvement of  record companies . The prize was first established
by the British Phonographic Industry in 1992.  Information:  http://www.mercuryprize.com/   Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris arts.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
 Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 