-- Polish August Inflation Slowed to 3.8%, Matching Forecast
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-09-13T13:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/polish-august-inflation-slowed-to-3-8-matching-forecast.html
Polish  consumer-price growth  slowed
in August as fuel costs eased, building the case for an
interest-rate cut this year.  The inflation rate fell to 3.8 percent from 4 percent in
July, exceeding the 3.5 percent upper end of the central bank’s
tolerance limit for the 20th month, the  Central Statistical
Office  in Warsaw said today. That matches the median  estimate  of
29 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Prices dropped 0.3 percent
from the previous month.  The  European Central Bank  last week revised down economic
projections for the euro area,  Poland ’s largest export market,
further weakening the country’s outlook after gross domestic
product grew the least in almost three years in the second
quarter. Additional signs of a slowing economy and inflation
will determine any change in borrowing costs, Governor  Marek Belka  said on Sept. 5 after the central bank’s monetary policy
council kept rates at a three-year high of 4.75 percent.  “Practically speaking, inflation right now isn’t
significant,” said  Andrzej Bratkowski , a member of the central
bank’s Monetary Policy Council told TVN CNBC in an interview,
adding that the panel should be focused on where inflation and
growth may be a year from now. “For me, indicators of economic
activity are more important.”  No Risk  The data show there’s no risk inflation will accelerate on
food and fuel prices, Bratkowski said. That means policy makers
must choose between worsening the slowdown by keeping rates
steady, or easing now and waiting for inflation to return to the
central bank’s 2.5 percent target.  “Whatever we do, I think inflation will be back at the
target by the first quarter,” Bratkowski said.  The zloty gained to 4.1041 per euro at 2:57 p.m. in Warsaw,
paring its loss to 0.2 percent on the day. The yield on Polish
two-year bond fell 2 basis points to 4.11 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Polish dollar-
denominated bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries increased six
basis points to 136, indexes compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
show. The spread over German euro-denominated bonds widened four
basis points to 329, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  EU’s Fastest  Economic growth will probably slow to 2.7 percent this
year, the 27-nation European Union’s fastest pace, from 4.3
percent in 2011, the European Commission estimates. Poland’s
expansion eased to 2.4 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, compared with 3.5 percent in January-March, as domestic
demand dropped and key export markets in the 17-nation euro area
slipped into a recession.  Growth in Polish fuel prices slowed to 10.2 percent last
month after rising 10.6 percent in July, today’s report showed.
Communication costs increased 0.1 percent, compared with 3.6
percent in the previous month.  Today’s data “have a rather limited impact on the Monetary
Policy Council,”  Rafal Benecki , chief economist for Poland at
ING Groep NV in Warsaw, said by telephone. Policy makers “are
focused on activity data and the performance of the zloty.”  The central bank may cut rates in October and ease by a
minimum of 1 percentage point over the next nine months after
“further negative surprises” on the economy, Benecki said.  The government, which is sticking with its 2.5 percent
growth target this year, cut next year’s goal to 2.2 percent and
the central bank expects a 2014 rate of 1.8 percent. The euro
region’s economy will contract between 0.2 percent and 0.6
percent this year, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Sept. 6.  Poland’s budget deficit will be about 3.5 percent of GDP
this year, missing the 2.9 percent goal, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said on Sept. 5. The shortfall was 5.1 percent last
year and a record 7.8 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  