-- Pound Approaches 4-Month High Versus Dollar Before Fed Decision
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-09-13T15:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/pound-holds-two-day-advance-versus-dollar-before-fed-decision.html
The pound approached a four-month
high against the dollar amid speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will announce a third series of bond purchases to stimulate
growth in the world’s largest economy.  Sterling held gains from the past two days versus the U.S.
currency as two-thirds of economists in a Bloomberg survey said
the Fed will implement more quantitative easing after its two-
day meeting ends today. Gilts rose after the Bank of  England 
said its market contacts were skeptical that improving sentiment
in the euro-area would be sustained. The U.K. sold 3.5 billion
pounds ($5.64 billion) of 10-year bonds.  “The dollar is under pressure going into the Fed decision
and the pound could gain further if there is more QE in the
U.S.,” said Melinda Burgess, a foreign-exchange strategist at
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in  London . If the Fed fails to
announce more QE, “a broad risk-off move would support the
dollar and bring the pound lower,” she said.  The pound rose 0.1 percent to $1.6115 at 4:23 p.m. London
time after climbing to $1.6131 yesterday, the strongest since
May 11. Sterling was little changed at 80.10 pence per euro.  The U.K. currency has gained 0.6 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The dollar fell 2.4 percent and
the euro rose 2.7 percent.  ‘Low Growth’  RBS predicts the pound will weaken to $1.54 by year-end due
to “low growth” in the U.K. and expectations for further
quantitative easing from the Bank of England, Burgess said.  Britain’s gross domestic product has  contracted  in the last
three quarters, choked by the euro-area sovereign-debt crisis
and an austerity program implemented by Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne .  The U.K. economy shrank 0.5 percent in the second quarter,
the  Office for National Statistics  said Aug. 24. The Bank of
England downgraded its growth forecasts last month and said the
outlook was “unusually uncertain.”  “Upside potential for pound-dollar is nearing its
limitations, and we expect the pound to come back under pressure
in the coming months,”  Ian Stannard , head of European foreign-
exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in London, wrote in a note
today. “Many of our market-based leading indicators for pound-
dollar are already giving renewed negative signals, and the
domestic U.K. fundamentals remain far from inspiring.”  The median of 44 estimates in a Bloomberg survey is for the
pound to end the year at $1.55.  Gilts Gain  Ten-year gilts advanced for the first time in four days as
the  Bank of England  said in its Quarterly Bulletin published
today that “many of the fundamental challenges facing the euro
area remained.”  The 10-year yield declined one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.82 percent. The 1.75 percent bond
maturing in September 2022 gained 0.115, or 1.15 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 99.38.  The U.K. sold additional 10-year bonds today at an average
yield of 1.825 percent. The government last auctioned the
securities on July 12 at an average yield of 1.719 percent, the
 lowest  since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1998.  Gilts have returned 2.2 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bunds gained 2.1 percent and  U.S. Treasuries  rose 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  