-- Presidential Choice Means Little in Fixing U.S. Economy in 2013
-- B y   M a t t h e w   P h i l i p s
-- 2012-09-13T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/presidential-choice-means-little-in-fixing-u-s-economy-in-2013.html
Whether it’s  Barack Obama  or  Mitt Romney  taking the presidential oath of office in January,
someone will have the misfortune of overseeing an economy that
looks a lot like the one we have today: low growth, persistently
high unemployment, and huge amounts of debt.  Depending on what happens with the “fiscal cliff,”
there’s at least a chance the U.S. will be in recession. The
mere threat of $600 billion in tax hikes and spending cuts is
already delaying business spending. Yet even if Congress does
broker a deal and the worst of the fiscal cliff is postponed,
2013 is shaping up to be a rough year, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Sept. 17 issue.  Big economic forces, both domestic and abroad, are
combining to damp growth. Fundamentals such as demographics and
household finances that helped spur past recoveries are now
slowing things down.  These trends aren’t affected much by policy, so fixing them
will be beyond the immediate grasp of an Obama or Romney
administration. “No matter who wins the election, from a truly
economic standpoint, 2013 will be an extremely challenging
year,” says  David Rosenberg , chief economist at Gluskin Sheff &
Associates Inc., in Toronto.  As the economy has cooled, so have economists’ forecasts.
The average estimate of the 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
is for gross domestic product to rise 2.1 percent in 2013, down
from the consensus of 2.5 percent in May.  The fiscal cliff poses the biggest threat: The combination
of deep spending cuts and tax increases set to hit in January
could strip as many as 4 percentage points off 2013 GDP growth.  Global Economy  On top of that, the global economy is weakening,
particularly in  China  and  Europe , two of the biggest export
markets for the U.S. China’s industrial output is growing at its
slowest pace since May 2009. Although Europe’s leaders appear to
be making progress in taming their debt crisis, much of the
continent is already in recession.  In July, U.S. exports fell by more than they have since
April, pushing the monthly trade deficit in manufactured goods
to a record $63.9 billion. In August,  factories  cut 15,000 jobs,
their biggest drop in two years. “The European situation has
really dampened exports more than what we had seen through the
earlier part of the summer,” says Joe LaVorgna, chief U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York . He
expects U.S. economic growth in 2013 to be “probably around 2
percent, rather than the magic 3 percent number we were hoping
for.”  Industrial Demand  The slowdown in industrial demand will ripple through the
economy, eventually hitting production, employment, and
ultimately  consumer spending . “In an environment this anemic,
you have the potential to grind down to zero in terms of job
growth next year,” says Jacob Oubina, senior U.S. economist at
RBC Capital Markets LLC in New York.  While growth slows,  productivity  is climbing. Output per
hour rose 2.2 percent in the second quarter of 2012, as
businesses squeezed more work from their current staff rather
than take on new employees. Over the long haul, productivity
gains are good for the economy, but in the medium term, the
combination of rising output and falling growth is a bad sign
for hiring.  A comparison with the deep recession of the early 1980s
highlights the difficulties facing Obama or Romney. By the end
of  Ronald Reagan ’s first year as president, the economy was
shrinking at an annual rate of nearly 5 percent. By the end of
his second, unemployment had hit 10.6 percent. But in the summer
of 1983, GDP was growing at an annual rate of 9.3 percent.  Built-In Advantages  The economy was able to snap out of recession thanks to
some built-in advantages a U.S. president can no longer count
on. In the early 1980s, the ratio of  household debt  to GDP was
about 50 percent; today it’s nearly 90 percent. Americans were
saving about 10 percent of their income, vs. 4.2  percent  as of
July 2012.  “When you over-leverage with debt and have a low savings
rate, it’s like having a weak immune system,” says  Carmen Reinhart , an economist at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy
School of Government in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and co-author
of the book, “This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of
Financial Folly,” which argues that it takes far longer to
recover from a financial crisis like the 2008 bust than it does
from an inflation-induced recession. “We were much more able to
absorb the economic shocks back in 1982 than we are today,”
Reinhart says.  Demographic Shifts  Demographic shifts aren’t helping. In the early 1980s, the
average baby boomer was 25; today, she’s 55. In 30 years, the
U.S. has gone from having its youngest workforce on record, with
an average age of 35, to its oldest, with an average age of 42.
Younger workers cost less, are more flexible, and create
households, prompting consumer spending. “It’s not that the
recovery is dysfunctional, it’s that the demographics have
turned against us,” says  James Paulsen , chief investment
strategist at Wells Capital Management.  Today’s monetary situation is more difficult as well. In
1982, after then-Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  tamed
inflation and cooled demand with high  interest rates , he had
plenty of room to lower rates as the economy took off. Current
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  has much less space to maneuver after
taking interest rates as low as he could to boost demand and
guard against deflation. “It turns out that killing inflation
is a much simpler task than quashing deflationary pressures,”
says Rosenberg.  Next President  Whoever the next president is, he won’t be able to change
America’s demographics or keep Europe and China from slowing
down. Under either Romney or Obama, Congress will remain
divided, meaning Obama likely won’t be able to pass more
stimulus, and Romney will have a hard time lowering taxes.
Neither campaign has a convincing growth strategy, though both
say they’re committed to reducing the federal  budget deficit .  In the best case, a serious attack on deficits could
persuade private investors to make a bet on America’s future,
increasing spending and investment. But the more likely effect
of shrinking the deficit, through spending cuts and tax
increases, will be to slow growth even further. Says Reinhart,
“The fiscal housecleaning we need to do won’t get us a rebound
in growth anytime soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Philips in New York at 
 mphilips3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Power at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net  