-- Princeton Endowment Expected to Rise Less Than 5% in Year
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-09-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/princeton-endowment-expected-to-rise-less-than-5-in-year.html
Princeton University ’s endowment
probably earned zero to 5 percent on its investments in the past
fiscal year, according to President Shirley Tilghman.  The Ivy League school is expected to release returns for
the year ended June 30 by next month. The endowment returned 22
percent in fiscal 2011, and 15 percent in the prior period.  “Better than we thought we were going to be, say back in
January,” Tilghman said of the return range in an interview
yesterday at Bloomberg LP’s headquarters in New York. “Clearly,
after two spectacular years, we’re back on the ground again.”  The expected return range would mean there is no cushion
this year for inflation because Princeton increases its budget
by 5 percent annually, Tilghman said. Foundations and endowments
produced the worst returns of any institutional investor class
in the year ended June 30, gaining a median of 0.4 percent,
consulting firm Wilshire Associates said Aug. 6.  Princeton’s endowment was valued at $17.1 billion in June
2011. It’s the  fourth-largest in higher education  in the U.S.
and Canada, behind  Harvard University ,  Yale University  and the
University of Texas system, according to an annual survey of
endowments by the National Association of College and University
Business Officers and Commonfund Institute.  Princeton’s endowment value dropped 24 percent in the year
ended June 30, 2009, after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in September 2008 crippled global financial
markets.  Liquidity Fund  To prepare for a scenario in which assets fall to the
extent they did during the 2008 financial crisis, Princeton
created a liquidity fund more than a year ago, Tilghman said.
The pool is separate from the university’s endowment and has
about $100 million in assets, mostly invested in U.S.
Treasuries, she said.  Princeton has been rebalancing its asset allocations,
Tilghman said. The school, located in Princeton,  New Jersey ,
planned to drop half of its private-equity managers, Chief
Investment Officer Andrew Golden said in October 2010, a process
that continues, according to Tilghman.  Princeton, one of eight colleges in the northeastern U.S.
that make up the Ivy League, was founded in 1746 as the College
of New Jersey. Alumni include first lady  Michelle Obama  and U.S.
Supreme Court Justices Samuel Alito Jr.,  Sonia Sotomayor  and
 Elena Kagan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
 Janet Lorin  in New York at 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  