-- Prudential Adds Wells Fargo Bankers in Apartment Push
-- B y   S u s a n n a   P a k
-- 2012-09-13T17:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/prudential-adds-wells-fargo-bankers-in-apartment-push.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, hired Patrick McAllister and
Laurie Morfin from  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  to bolster the unit making
loans for multifamily dwellings.  McAllister will work in San Francisco and Morfin in a new
Carlsbad, California, office, according to a statement today
from Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential. They will focus on
loans that will be bought or backed by U.S. agencies or
taxpayer-supported firms such as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  Prudential and New York-based  MetLife Inc. (MET)  are among
insurers betting on apartments with near record-low interest
rates limiting returns from bonds, and more families turning to
rental properties after housing prices slumped. U.S. apartment
 vacancies  fell to 4.7 percent in the second quarter, the lowest
rate since the end of 2001, according to Reis Inc.  “The multifamily market has been a strong performer in the
current economic climate as people choose to rent, putting off
home ownership due to concerns about the job market,” Jim Hensley, a principal and agency production manager for
Prudential Mortgage Capital Co., said in the statement. “We
believe that will continue to be the case for the next three to
five years.”  The Federal Open Market Committee said today it would
probably hold the federal funds rate near zero “at least
through mid-2015.” The U.S. unemployment rate has exceeded 8
percent since February 2009, the longest stretch in monthly
records going back to 1948.  Commercial Mortgages  Prudential had $5 billion in apartment and multifamily
mortgages as of June 30, about 15 percent of a commercial-
mortgage portfolio that also covers office, retail and
industrial properties. MetLife Inc., the largest U.S. life
insurer, had  $4.3 billion , the firm said on its website.  Before joining Prudential, McAllister and Morfin worked as
directors and originators for Wells Fargo Multifamily Capital.
 Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, the largest bank on
the U.S. West Coast, had no immediate comment.  McAllister has held senior positions at Cohen Financial and
Eastdil. Morfin has worked for Nationwide Insurance and Union
Central Life Insurance Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Pak in  New York  at 
 Spak10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  