-- PSG Should Buy Players at Home or Risk Boring Fans, Aulas Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-09-13T12:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/psg-should-buy-players-at-home-or-risk-boring-fans-aulas-says.html
Paris Saint-Germain, the biggest-
spending club in European soccer this offseason, should buy
players from French rivals to boost their revenue and ensure a
competitive domestic league, Lyon President Jean-Michel Aulas
said.  PSG, backed by an investment arm of the Qatari government,
spent 140 million euros ($181 million) on players including AC
Milan duo Zlatan Ibrahimovic and  Thiago Silva  as well as
Argentine attacker Ezequiel Lavezzi from Napoli. Brazilian
forward Lucas Moura, a player wanted by  Manchester United , will
join from  Sao Paulo  in January. The only new arrivals from
 France  were two youngsters from an amateur league while four
joined from Italian teams.  Buying players from French clubs would stimulate the local
soccer economy, allowing teams to reinvest cash from PSG into
improving their rosters, said Aulas. He’s taken Lyon from the
second division to the top league, where it secured a record
seven straight championships between 2002 and 2008.  “Paris Saint-Germain needs competition,” Aulas said in an
interview in Geneva. “If not, the product isn’t very
interesting. That’s why  Spain  and  England  have interest from
abroad. Spain has two or three very big teams and in England
there’s at least four or even five with Tottenham.”  Before the Qataris arrived in Paris, Lyon was regularly
among the league’s biggest spenders, using revenue from playing
in the  Champions League  to outbid rivals for talent.  “It reminds of what we did during a certain period,” said
Aulas. “We bought a lot but we bought French.”  Foreign Teams  Still, it was by buying players from foreign teams,
including Brazilians Juninho Pernambucano, Cris and Giovane Elber, to play alongside French stars such as Karim Benzema and
Florent Malouda that helped Lyon dominate its rivals.  PSG couldn’t immediately comment on Aulas’s views. Its
spending comes at a time where the majority of top European
teams are paring costs to meet new financial control regulations
established by European soccer’s governing body. Breaches of the
rules that are designed to stem losses could lead to sanctions
including a ban from the Champions League and Europa League from
the 2014-15 season.  “Some clubs are continuing to buy a lot of expensive
players,” said Aulas, who this summer cut 30 percent of player
costs by selling some established stars, including French
national team goalkeeper  Hugo Lloris  to Tottenham. “I think
everybody knows what they need to do. What we’re seeing is
perhaps the moment when those who continue to invest are saying
to themselves, ‘It’s the last year that we can.”’  Financial Evaluation  Clubs will be evaluated ahead of the 2014-15 season by a
UEFA panel. Losses of as much as 45 million euros across three
previous seasons or a maximum single-season loss of 15 million
euros can be covered by an equity investment. The maximum loss
will be reduced to 30 million euros for the following seasons.  Lyon last year finished fourth in the French championship,
18 points behind winner Montpellier. The club had a loss of 25
million euros on revenue of 120 million euros, according to
Aulas. He said the new regulations have prompted a new approach
at his team, where lower salaries and focus on youth have
replaced buying big names.  Losing Lloris’s 4.4 million-euro annual salary and getting
15 million euros from Tottenham was “very good,” he said.  Explaining the transition to fans that only care about
success isn’t easy.  “It’s very important to explain the reality and the
truth,” said Aulas, who’s personally invested 50 million euros
into Lyon. “The truth is we can’t carry on having expenses that
are greater than revenues. It’s very important that we drop our
wage bill.”  Youth Academy  Lyon spent 10 million euros on a youth academy that opened
two years ago and plans to move to a new stadium by 2015,
according to Aulas. South Korean car manufacturer Hyundai Motor
Co. signed as the team’s partner and may even put its name to
Lyon’s planned 61,556-seat Stade des Lumieres, according to
Aulas.  The plans have attracted investment offers, Aulas said, and
he may cash in once the team moves to its new home.  “Today I am the main shareholder and we have some offers
from some very good investors because we have the stadium,
because we have the academy and the team,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 