-- Purged Florida Voters to Be Returned to Voting Rolls, State Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-09-13T15:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/purged-florida-voters-to-be-returned-to-voting-rolls-state-says.html
Florida residents erroneously
purged from voter rolls after being identified as non-citizens
will be able to cast ballots in the November election, the state
said.  Florida’s Department of State said yesterday it will alert
voters who were improperly removed, or wrongly told they would
be removed, that they can vote. The government’s announcement
followed a legal complaint by civil rights and other groups
objecting to the purge.  The state originally identified more than 2,600 potential
non-citizens on the rolls at the direction of Republican Governor
 Rick Scott . Of those, it has found about 207 voters who are non-
citizens and shouldn’t be allowed to cast ballots, said Chris
Cate, a Florida Department of State spokesman. Any of the
remaining 2,400 voters who were told they would be removed from
the rolls will now be alerted that they can vote, he said.  There are about 11.5 million voters in Florida, the biggest
 electoral  prize among states viewed as competitive by campaigns
for Democratic President  Barack Obama  and Republican nominee
 Mitt Romney . The past three presidential races in Florida have
been decided by 5 percentage points or less. Obama and Romney
have traded the lead in Florida polls this year.  Legal challenges are playing out in courts around the
country over state voter regulations that advocacy groups say
will suppress turnout, including requiring certain forms of
identification.  Discrimination Allegation  The  Florida  decision came after a lawsuit filed against the
state in federal court in Miami by two voters and five groups
alleging discrimination against Hispanic and black voters.  Groups that sued included Miami-Dade County-based civic
group Veye Yo; Florida Immigrant Coalition Inc. and Florida New
Majority, nonprofit organizations; National Congress for Puerto
Rican Rights, a Pennsylvania nonprofit group; and labor union
1199SEIU United Healthcare Workers East.  The state’s initial process for identifying non-citizens,
which used information from driver’s licenses, was questioned by
voter rights groups and some county supervisors who said the
data was unreliable and mostly targeted Hispanics. Florida
abandoned that identification process before receiving access to
federal immigration data in July.  The state’s decision is a “historic milestone,” said
Judith Browne Dianis, co-director of the Washington-based
Advancement Project, a civil rights group whose lawyers filed
the complaint against Florida.  ’National Leader’  “It will ensure that naturalized citizens, the majority of
whom are Latino, black and Asian, have the same opportunities as
all Americans to participate in our political process,” Browne
Dianis said about the state’s announcement.  The plaintiffs dropped parts of their lawsuit after the
state said it would reinstate voters and notify them.  The groups amended their complaint yesterday, saying the
new state process violates the National Voting Rights Act
because residents would be removed from the rolls within 90 days
of a federal election.  A similar suit filed against the state by the U.S. Justice
Department is pending in federal court in Tallahassee. The
state’s process has also drawn a lawsuit from  American Civil
Liberties Union , which argues in federal court in Tampa that the
state should have received pre-approval for the changes from the
federal government under the Voting Rights Act. The act requires
Florida to get permission for any changes in election rules in
five counties with a history of discrimination against
minorities.  Cate defended Florida’s efforts to remove non-citizens from
the voter rolls.  “Florida right now is being a national leader in
identifying non-citizens,” Cate said. “We hope that the
efforts we put into it to get to this point, other states are
going to be able to see and use in their own states.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  