-- Mr. Mursi, Allies Don’t Let Allies Breach Embassy Walls
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-13T22:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/mr-mursi-allies-don-t-let-allies-breach-embassy-walls.html
It so happens that this was the
week Egypt hosted the  biggest  U.S.  trade delegation  ever to tour
the Middle East.  On the final day that Egyptian authorities courted 100
senior business executives exploring investment opportunities, a
mob overran the U.S. Embassy in Cairo, defacing American flags,
painting “ bin Laden ” on a gate and occupying the grounds for
hours. The crowd was  angered by  a U.S.-produced video mocking
the Muslim  Prophet Muhammad .  Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi  focused  his ire on the
makers of the video, asking U.S. officials to prosecute them. It
took a full day for Mursi to say his government was committed to
protecting foreign missions, and that happened only after
President  Barack Obama  described Egypt, which is technically a
major non-NATO ally, as  neither an ally  nor an enemy of the U.S.  Compare that reaction with that of the government in Libya,
which responded with alacrity following an attack hours later on
the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, in which four U.S. diplomats,
including Ambassador Chris Stevens, were killed. Its leaders
pledged to work with the U.S. to track down the killers. The
president of Libya’s National Congress apologized to the U.S.,
“if not the whole world,” for the atrocity.  Mursi had an opportunity, at the start of events, to dampen
the risk of trouble spreading. Egypt, after all, aspires to be
the political leader of the  Middle East . Instead, his  too-
little , too-late responses left the ground fertile for further
unrest, which in fact broke out in  Tunisia  and in Yemen, where
protesters breached the U.S. embassy’s security perimeter.
Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood, from which Mursi emerged, upped the
ante, announcing additional  nationwide protests  to follow Friday
prayers Sept. 14.  Mursi is no longer a leader of a religious movement. As
the president of Egypt, he’s a statesman, with responsibilities
that require him to go beyond pandering to his supporters. They
include protecting and respecting as sacrosanct diplomatic
missions in Egypt, which have suffered four attacks over the
past year.  His job also requires him to ensure the prosperity of his
people. Egypt won’t rise above its current economic travails --
crippling unemployment, sputtering growth, rapidly depleting
reserves -- without significant help from abroad. The U.S. alone
supplies Egypt $1.5 billion in annual assistance, has pledged $1
billion in debt forgiveness and has supported a proposed $4.8
billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund . This is not
the kind of largesse the U.S. government extends to a country
that isn’t truly an ally. Nor are those 100 business execs
likely to return home eager to invest in Egyptian enterprises
given the callousness of the country’s response to the week’s
events.  Mursi is still new in a job he was scarcely prepared for,
and he’s shown that he’s capable of taking bold stands -- for
instance when he visited Tehran for the meeting of the Non-
Aligned Movement and blasted Syria for the war it is waging
against its people. He has time to correct course, and needs to
do so, beginning with a clear condemnation of the violence and a
declared willingness to stop and punish further such attacks.  Egyptians make the argument that though the  Muslim
Brotherhood  is now in charge, Egypt is not the new Iran. A
fifth, sixth or seventh embassy transgression could make that
case hard to swallow.
Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  tax spat in France  and on
the disingenuousness of last year’s  debt-ceiling debate ;
 Jonathan Alter  on Romney’s  “No Apology” foreign policy ;  Stephen
Carter  on the need for politics to  stop at the water’s edge ;
 Noah Feldman  on  China’s invisible heir apparent ;  Ezra Klein  on a
 carbon-tax fantasy ; Willie Pesek on  China’s missing No. 2  man;
 Jonathan Weil  on banks that admit their  balance sheets  are
awful;  Alex Marshall  on why  capitalism and government  are
friends after all.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 