-- Rand Falls Second Day as South African Mining Unrest Continues
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-09-13T14:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/rand-falls-second-day-as-south-african-mining-unrest-continues.html
South  Africa ’s rand weakened for
the second day as labor unrest in the nation’s mining industry
spread, undermining investor confidence in Africa’s largest
economy.  The rand fell as much as 1.3 percent and traded 0.3 percent
weaker at 8.3584 per dollar as of 3:54 p.m. in Johannesburg.
Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due March 2021 rose
less than one basis point to 6.66 percent.  South African mine labor unrest spread as employees of
 Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the largest producer of the metal,
started a pay strike at the company’s Rustenburg operations
idled earlier this week. The strike follows work stoppages at
 Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ’s KDC West
shaft. About 43,000 people are either on strike at these three
companies or staying away from work following conflict at
Lonmin’s Marikana operation last month in which 44 people died
in the worst mining violence since apartheid ended in 1994.  “The strike action activity remains a concerning feature
of this sector’s landscape at the moment,” Johannesburg-based
Tradition Analytics said by e-mail today. Losses in the rand are
being compounded by current account data released earlier this
week that “was nothing short of shocking,” Tradition said.  The gap on  South Africa ’s  current account , the broadest
measure of trade in goods and services, grew to 6.4 percent in
the second quarter, the widest since the third quarter of 2008,
from 4.9 percent of gross domestic product in the first, the
 Reserve Bank  said Sept. 11.  ‘Unrest’  A debt crisis in  Europe  has damped demand for exports from
a region that buys about a third of shipments from South Africa.
Manufacturing production declined 1 percent in the second
quarter, according to Statistics South Africa, and the
government and central bank forecast economic expansion will
slow to 2.7 percent this year from 3.1 percent in 2011.  “Over the longer-term the factors behind the unrest at the
mines will weigh on South African bonds, unless the issue is
addressed,” Theuns de Wet and Mamello Matikinca, strategists at
Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in a note to clients
today. “Subtrend growth, a widening current account deficit,
labor market rigidities and increasing debt will be reflected in
lower country risk ratings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  