-- Treasury Yield Curve Steepens as Fed Spurs Inflation Bets
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-09-13T21:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/treasuries-fall-as-fed-fails-to-include-u-s-debt-in-purchases.html
The yield gap between 10- and 30-
year Treasuries widened to the most in a year on concern the
 Federal Reserve ’s plan to buy more debt on an open-ended basis
and its pledge to keep monetary policy accommodative even when
the economy strengthens will spur inflation.  The difference touched 1.21 percentage points, the most
since August 2011, as yields on 30-year debt, more sensitive to
inflation because of its longer maturity, climbed to the highest
since May. Long bonds pared losses after Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said the central bank retains the capacity to  purchase 
 U.S. government debt  after it refrained from including the
securities in the plan to buy assets. The Fed also said it would
probably keep  interest rates  at virtually zero into 2015.  “Leaving their purchases open-ended and extending their
guidance means a steeper yield curve, as there is more inflation
risk,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at  Societe Generale  in  New
York , one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the central
bank. “The need to come out with the operation at all is
alerting everyone that there is a long road in this recovery and
there are still many things that need to be addressed.”  Thirty-year bond  yields rose as much as eight basis points,
or 0.08 percentage point, to 3 percent, the highest level since
May 14, before closing at 2.93 percent at 5 p.m. in New York.  Yields on  10-year notes  fell four basis points to 1.72
percent after advancing earlier to 1.83 percent, the highest
since Aug. 21. They slid to a record 1.379 percent on July 25
and climbed to a three-month high of 1.86 percent on Aug. 21.  Other assets rallied after the Fed’s statement, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbing 1.6 percent and gold
futures gaining as much as 2.4 percent to $1,775 an ounce.  Inflation Gauge  The difference in yield between 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
traders’ outlook for  consumer prices  known as the break-even
rate, reached 2.49 percentage points, the most since July 2011.
It has averaged 2.2 percent this year.  FOMC officials upgraded their  estimate  for 2013 gross
domestic product growth to 2.5 percent to 3 percent, compared
with 2.2 percent to 2.8 percent in June. Estimates for 2014 are
from 3 percent to 3.8 percent, versus 3 percent to 3.5 percent
in the previous forecast.  Almost two-thirds of economists in a Bloomberg survey had
forecast the central bank would announce more government debt
purchases under quantitative easing. The Fed bought $2.3
trillion of Treasuries and mortgage-related debt in two rounds
of the stimulus strategy from 2008 to 2011.  ‘Will Continue’  “If the outlook for the labor market does not improve
substantially, the committee will continue its purchases of
agency mortgage-backed securities, undertake additional asset
purchases and employ its other policy tools as appropriate,”
the FOMC said today in a statement at the end of a two-day
meeting in  Washington .  The Fed will make open-ended purchases of $40 billion of
mortgage debt a month as it seeks to boost economic growth and
reduce employment, the committee said.  “A highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will
remain appropriate for a considerable time after the economic
recovery strengthens,” the FOMC said.  Yields on Fannie Mae-guaranteed mortgage bonds trading
closest to face value declined 18 basis points to 2.18 percent
as of 3:05 p.m. in New York, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gap with an average of five- and 10-year Treasury
rates narrowed 16 basis points to about 98 basis points, the
lowest since 1992.  Congress’s Burden  In adding accommodation less than two months before the
Nov. 6 presidential election, Bernanke and the Fed drew a
contrast between the engagement of monetary officials and the
inability of fiscal policy makers to take steps to boost the
economy, said  David Ader , head of U.S. government-bond strategy
at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “Part of this could be an assertion of the Fed’s
independence,” Ader said.  Fiscal measures to support the economy during the crisis
have been confined to the $787 billion stimulus passed in 2009
and the payroll-tax reduction combined with an extension of the
Bush-era tax cuts approved after the 2010 elections.  “Bernanke and monetary policy can only do so much,” said
Richard Schlanger, who helps invest $20 billion in fixed-income
securities as vice president at Pioneer Investments in  Boston .
“I think Congress, the burden is really on them.”  ‘Light Side’  The Fed’s approach may have been “on the light side” of
expectations, said John Fath, a  money manager  at the investment
firm BTG Pactual in New York who helps manage $2.5 billion in
bonds. “If you look at when they did QE1 and QE2, inflation was
at a lower level. Maybe it was more difficult with the hawks to
overcome their opinions.”  Investors should buy seven-year Treasuries because the
monthly purchases outlined by the Fed reflect a “fairly
measured, although open-ended” approach that may last longer
than earlier efforts, favoring intermediate maturities, Brett Rose, an interest-rate strategist in New York at the primary
dealer Citigroup Inc., wrote in a note to clients.  Treasury 30-year bond yields reached their lowest level of
the day, 2.86 percent, after the U.S. sold $13 billion of the
securities before the Fed statement. The sale yielded 2.896
percent, compared with a forecast of 2.929 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of six primary dealers. The bid-to-cover
 ratio,  which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of securities offered, was 2.68, versus an average of
2.62 at the past 10 sales.  ‘Got Burned’  “If you went into the auction on a speculative long
position, you got burned,” said  Scott Sherman , an interest-rate
strategist at the primary dealer Credit Suisse Group AG in New
York. “The people who would fall into that category were the
people who didn’t think the Fed was going to ease further. But
they weren’t paying attention.” A long position is a bet a
security will rise.  The central bank’s stimulus efforts since 2008 have failed
to breathe life into the labor market, which Bernanke said last
month is a “grave concern.” Unemployment has been stuck above
8 percent for 43 straight months. U.S. gross domestic product
was 1.7 percent in the second quarter, after reaching 4.1
percent from October through December, the highest since 2006,
Commerce Department data show.  “With the economy not running off to the races and
inflation low, the policy accommodation helps everyone,” said
Roger Bayston, senior vice president and director of fixed
income at the Franklin Templeton fixed-income group, which has
more than $350 billion in fixed-income assets under management.
“They have room to do this because we are nowhere near maximum
employment.”  The Fed also said today it will continue its Operation
Twist program to replace shorter-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-term securities to extend its holdings’ average maturity
and put downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  