-- Romney Aide Says Obama Rules Hinder Energy Independence
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-09-13T17:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/romney-aide-says-obama-rules-hinder-energy-independence.html
An energy adviser to Republican
 Mitt Romney  said drilling advances are putting the U.S. on
course to emerge “from under OPEC dominance,” while the Obama
administration is stalling development with excessive rules.  “There is an entire new world of geology out there that’s
awaiting us,”  Harold Hamm , chief executive officer of
 Continental Resources Inc. (CLR)  and a Romney aide, said today at a
House Energy and Commerce Committee subcommittee hearing.  Federal regulations hinder development by delaying the
permits needed to work, and Hamm said as a result his Oklahoma
City-based company avoids drilling on federal lands. He said he
wasn’t representing the campaign in his testimony.  Democrats led by Representative  Henry Waxman  of  California 
said the boom in U.S. energy development rebuts that criticism,
and policies such as higher fuel-efficiency standards for cars
and trucks are helping lower demand, helping reduce oil imports.  Republicans called the hearing to discuss goals for North
American energy independence, which Romney has said could be
achieved by 2020 if he wins election. While drilling advances
such as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, are boosting U.S.
output, Democrats and Republicans disagreed over whether federal
policies hurt or help production.  Committee Chairman  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican, said
a “genuinely transformative energy revolution has emerged, and
it has happened in spite of” administration policies.  Output, Imports  Oil production climbed to almost 6.2 million barrels a day
this year, from less than 5 million barrels in 2008, helping
reduce imports to 42 percent of total consumption from more than
60 percent in 2005, according to the Energy Information
Administration. The agency projects imports will fall to about
36 percent in 2035.  Through “fracking,” a process that injects a mixture of
water, sand and chemicals thousands of feet below the surface,
companies like Continental can access fossil fuels trapped in
shale rock formations, whereas conventional techniques require
the oil to flow to the well, Hamm said.  Waxman said the Republicans’ energy plans were too reliant
on fossil fuels, which when burned release gases that scientists
have linked to  climate change .  He said Romney’s energy plan was “backwards looking.”  The choice is “all-of-the-above, or oil-above-all,”
Waxman said.  While the EIA projects a slow decline in imports, several
analysts are even more optimistic about U.S. production gains,
largely from fracking and offshore output in the  Gulf of Mexico .  Citigroup Inc. (C)  projects the nation will produce 14.1
million barrels a day of oil and natural-gas liquids by 2020, up
from this year’s daily rate of 8.6 million barrels and an
increase of almost 90 percent from 2010.  Daniel Ahn, Citigroup’s chief commodities analyst, said the
energy boom can act as a minor industrial revolution that could
create as many 3.6 million jobs in oil and gas companies and
associated industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  