-- Romney Avoids Explanations of How to Pay for Campaign Promises
-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 2012-09-13T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/romney-avoids-explanations-of-how-to-pay-for-campaign-promises.html
Mitt Romney  promised that if
elected president he’d create 12 million jobs, replace  Barack Obama ’s health-care law and the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul,
slash corporate tax rates, keep George W. Bush’s income-tax cuts
and then cut an added 20 percent while balancing the budget.  The Republican presidential nominee isn’t saying how he’d
pull off this feat of  budgetary  magic.  All presidential hopefuls paint rosy scenarios and rely on
a few questionable assumptions. Yet with less than two months to
go until Election Day, Romney’s campaign has distinguished
itself by the chasm between what’s been promised and what’s been
revealed. Absent details, he’s depending on voters’ faith that
he’ll be able to keep all these vows once elected, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Sept. 17 issue.  Polls suggest voters aren’t buying it. Since the party
conventions, President Obama has opened a 6-point lead in
Gallup’s daily  tracking poll .  Republicans “have the tactics down,” says  John Weaver , who
ran  Arizona  Senator  John McCain ’s 2000 presidential campaign.
“Between the campaign and its super-PAC allies, they have the
negative advertising down. What’s missing are the details about
where he’ll lead the country and how he’ll do it.”  Courting Voters  Romney’s reluctance to lay out specifics is no accident.
From the outset, this ambiguity was designed to attract the
broadest possible segment of the electorate. The economy is so
bad, his advisers say, that voters will jettison the president
given an acceptable alternative.  Romney has clung to this strategy, even in the face of
evidence to the contrary. On Sept. 9, with Obama’s polling
bounce after the Democrats’ nominating convention in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina  last week, the former Massachusetts governor
appeared on NBC’s “Meet the Press” to reiterate his intention
to pay for tax cuts by closing loopholes, and refused to name a
single one.  He also pledged to keep a popular Obama health-care
provision -- the rule forbidding insurers from denying coverage
for pre-existing conditions.  Still, keeping this won’t square with Romney’s other
commitments to repeal the individual mandate and hold down
insurance rates. Without a mandate to broaden the risk pool,
economists expect rates will rise anywhere from 2 percent to
40 percent. That’s why Romney’s Massachusetts health-care law
included one.  Negative Ads  The risk in providing more clarity about his proposals is
that Romney, already reeling from negative ads about his tenure
at the Boston-based private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC and his
tax returns, will open himself up to further attacks.  Take  tax deductions , an obvious source of savings. The
government gives up more in deductions, about $1.1 trillion,
than the $1 trillion it collects. The costliest ones are also
the most popular with the middle class: charitable giving, at
$47 billion; mortgage interest at $89 billion; retirement
savings at $118 billion; and employer-provided health insurance
at $131 billion.  On the other hand, Romney’s effort to avoid specifying such
cuts hasn’t spared him from the implications of his proposals.
An August study by the  Brookings Institution  and the  Tax Policy
Center  found that his assorted promises are impossible to
reconcile with his claim that he won’t raise middle-class taxes.  Recouping Revenue  Cutting ordinary income rates by 20 percent for the wealthy
as Romney has pledged would cost the government $251 billion.
Romney says he would recoup that lost revenue by eliminating
deductions. Yet the study’s authors note that wealthy taxpayers
account for only $165 billion in deductions. So the $86 billion
shortfall would have to be borne by everyone else.  Voters, too, don’t seem prepared to reconcile themselves to
Romney’s vagueness. A Sept. 11 Washington Post-ABC News poll
showed that by more than a 2-1 margin they think Romney hasn’t
offered enough details about the policies he’d pursue as
president.  “Voters like a sense that someone has thought through his
policies,” says William Kristol, editor of the Weekly Standard
and a veteran of the George H.W. Bush White House. It’s also
wrong, he says, to assume that offering more specifics would
hurt Romney’s embattled candidacy.  ‘We Hammered Him’  “In the 1992 campaign, we saw how  Bill Clinton  was helped a
lot by having specific policies that were well worked through,
and some were not the conventional liberal policies of the day,”
says Kristol. “He was a flawed candidate with huge personal
vulnerabilities. We hammered him. But he was really helped by
having a big agenda he could fall back on. He could say what he
wanted to do on health-care reform, on welfare. The voters
listened.”  The same lesson holds for Republican victories. In 1980,
 Ronald Reagan ’s theory of supply-side economics was
controversial yet clear in its implications.  In 1994 the Republicans’ “Contract with America” outlined
the steps the party would take if put in power. In 2000,  George
W. Bush  offered detailed tax and education plans, which helped
him put those policies into place once he was elected. A growing
chorus of Republicans believes that Romney will need to do
something similar.  “Everybody already knows what’s wrong with Obama,” says
Weaver. “What they don’t know is what Romney is going to do
about it. His economic plan is a bunch of bumper sticker quotes.
You can’t have a secret plan to cut taxes. Who’s going to trust
that?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Green in Washington at 
 jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  