-- Trucker Safety Ratings Flawed, Companies Tell U.S. Panel
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-09-13T18:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/truck-company-safety-ratings-flawed-companies-tell-u-s-panel.html
A safety-rating system developed by
the U.S. Transportation Department unfairly tarnishes trucking
and bus companies for crashes that may not be their fault, a
House committee was told.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration’s scores
are hurting companies with good operating histories, lawmakers
said, citing complaints they’ve received from trucking
companies. Brokers, shippers and insurers are less likely to do
business with companies with bad scores, even if they’re based
on paperwork violations, they said.  “While the old adage of ‘garbage in, garbage out’ does not
completely apply here, there are questions about the reliability
and integrity of the data,” Representative Nick Rahall, a West
Virginia Democrat, said at a hearing held by a House
Transportation and Infrastructure subcommittee.  The Transportation Department has been developing its
Compliance, Safety and Accountability system since 2004 to
better target unsafe companies for inspection. The American
Trucking Associations is asking the agency to revise what data
is being included.  “FMCSA must acknowledge that the system does not
accurately and reliably identify unsafe carriers,” said Scott
Mugno, vice president of safety for FedEx Ground Package System
Inc., who testified on behalf of the Arlington, Virginia-based
trucking trade group.  The agency’s priority “should be to focus on the least
safe carriers, not merely those carriers that have compliance
problems,” he said.  Potential Lawsuits  A study by  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  found no correlation
between a carrier’s scores and actual accidents. Wells Fargo
told interested parties, like shippers, brokers and insurers,
 that  FMCSA safety scores weren’t reliable, and that they were
setting themselves up for potential lawsuits if they use the
scores.  The Transportation Department needs to come up with a way
for companies to challenge data they believe is inaccurate, and
if so to get their rating changed, said Representative John Duncan, chairman of the Highways and Transit Subcommittee, which
held the hearing.  “We want the bad companies acted on, but we don’t want the
good companies treated like they’re bad,” said Duncan, a
Tennessee Republican.  FMCSA’s data and ratings have been validated by the
University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute, agency
Administrator Anne Ferro said. Carriers with the worst scores
have crash rates twice often as the average company, Ferro said.  Task Force  The agency is sensitive to criticism that the program isn’t
fair, Ferro said in an interview. The agency has set up an
agency-industry  task force  to evaluate suggested changes, she
said.  The program is working better than the agency’s earlier
efforts to identify risky companies, which is important because
inspectors can only look at a fraction of the more than 500,000
U.S. trucking companies, Ferro said.  “We have an obligation to use our data to really focus our
resources on the high-risk carriers,” Ferro said.  The father of a college-aged son killed by a negligent
truck driver cautioned lawmakers that determining fault in an
accident isn’t always easy. Steve Owings, president and co-
founder of Road Safe America, said the police report of his son
Cullum’s 2002 crash initially indicated no fault based on the
driver’s false account. Cullum was killed when a speeding truck
hit his car from behind.  ‘Tremendous Mischaracterization’  The report didn’t reflect what Owings’s surviving son,
Pierce, witnessed because Pierce was in the ambulance with his
brother as he died, Owings said. The family hired a private
investigator to corroborate Pierce’s version of what happened,
he said.  “It is a tremendous mischaracterization to say that this
process is unfair and that some trucking companies are being
blamed for crashes that they did not cause,” Owings told the
committee. “With all companies being held to the same standard
of inclusion, the playing field is level and fair.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  