-- Russian Gray Market Offers Yuppies IPhone 5 for $3,700
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-09-13T09:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/russian-gray-market-offers-yuppies-iphone-5-for-3-700.html
The iPhone 5 is  priced  at as much
as 115,000 rubles ($3,700) in the Russian gray market, topping
previous models as Web vendors bet on demand from the country’s
wealthy ahead of the redesigned device’s official release.  “Small companies in the gray market are trying to skim the
cream off,” said Vladislav Zavyalov, a marketing manager at
 re:Store Retail Group , an official seller of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  gadgets
with 94 stores in  Russia  and  Europe . “The Russian yuppies are
ready to pay this money to get the hottest stuff first.”  The Web stores are offering delivery soon after the phone
goes on sale in the U.S. and eight other countries on Sept. 21.
Official sales in Russia will probably start mid-December and
the price is likely the same as for the iPhone 4S, which was as
much as 39,990 rubles for the 64-gigabyte model, said Eldar
Murtazin, an analyst at Moscow-based Mobile Research Group.  Russian consumers, attracted to the iPhone 5’s longer
battery life, bigger display and new design, may snap up at
least 50,000 units of the phone before its official release in
the country, Murtazin estimates.  The iPhone 4S, introduced last year, sold for about 80,000
rubles in the Russian gray market, according to Moscow-based
research firm Telecom Daily.  Unofficial Channels  The gray-market businesses send people to buy iPhones in
stores abroad and bring them to Russia as personal belongings to
avoid paying taxes required from an official importer.  While there are 2 million iPhones in use in Russia, only
1.1 million of those have been sold via official channels in the
country, according to an April presentation by Euroset, Russia’s
largest handset retailer.  That means gray-market phones account for about half of
units and even more of the market in terms of value, given that
the unofficial sales often happen at “astronomical prices,”
Murtazin said.  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , Russia’s largest wireless carrier,
and rival  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  are testing smaller iPhone SIM cards --
the small chips that are inserted into phones to make them work
on a certain network -- and may provide them for devices brought
from abroad.  “If an individual buys an iPhone abroad, he needs the
service here and we can’t leave him without the SIM,” said
Valeria Kuzmenko, a spokeswoman for OAO Mobile TeleSystems.  Availability Gap  Apple is working on decreasing the lag between starting new
smartphone sales in the U.S. and Russia, re:Store’s Zavyalov
said in an interview. The lag has already been reduced to 2 1/2
months for iPhone 4S from eight months for some previous models,
he said. The gap is caused by longer certification process for
smartphones in Russia, Zavyalov said.  Apple may start direct sales of its gadgets to retailers in
Moscow and  St. Petersburg  next year and is considering opening
its own store Russia,  Kommersant  reported Aug. 20.  “This may help to decrease the gap in deliveries between
Russia and the developed markets to several weeks,” Murtazin
said. “In this case, many Russians will be glad to switch to
officially brought iPhones to get the producer’s warranty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  