-- Russia Unexpectedly Raises Rates as Inflation Breaches Goal
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-09-13T15:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/russian-central-bank-unexpectedly-raises-refinancing-rate.html
Russia ’s central bank unexpectedly
raised all policy rates by a quarter-point after inflation
exceeded its target, splitting from policy makers in other major
economies focused on bolstering economic growth.  The Moscow-based Bank Rossii raised the  refinancing rate  to
8.25 percent from 8 percent, the first increase in 16 months, it
said in a statement on its website today. The  overnight auction-
based repurchase rate  will rise to 5.5 percent from 5.25 percent
and the  overnight deposit rate  to 4.25 percent from 4 percent,
effective tomorrow. Three of 15 economists forecast an increase
in the refinancing rate in a Bloomberg survey with the rest
predicting no change.  “This is a very strong signal,” Vladimir Pantyushin, the
chief economist at  Barclays Plc. (BARC) ’s  Moscow-based investment
banking unit, said by phone today. “This is a clear
confirmation of their transition to inflation targeting.”  Russia, which wants to complete a shift to inflation
targeting in 2014, is breaking from policy makers around the
world, including in major emerging economies such as  China ,
 Brazil  and  India  who eased monetary policy this year to boost
their economies.  Ruble, Bonds  The ruble extended gains after the decision, strengthening
0.8 percent against the dollar to 31.2625 by the 7 p.m. close in
Moscow. That’s the strongest level since May 22. Russia’s ruble
bonds due June 2017 fell, lifting the yield 28 basis points to
7.77 percent.  The cost to fix floating interest payments in rubles for a
year rose for the first time in two weeks, adding 11 basis
points to 7.62 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A close
at that level would be the biggest jump since July 23.  Russian consumer prices advanced 6.3 percent from a year
earlier as of Sept. 10, above the top end of policy makers’
tolerance range, the central bank said today. Inflation
accelerated to 5.9 percent in August, the fastest this year, as
droughts from the U.S. to Russia damaged crops and drove up food
prices.  Bank Rossii is seeking to hold inflation at 5 percent to 6
percent this year before cutting that range by a half-point in
each of the next two years.  Increasing Risks  “The decision was made based on rising prices and
inflation expectations, which increase the risks of exceeding
Bank Rossii’s medium-term parameters for inflation, and also
taking into account estimated prospects for economic growth”
the central bank said in the statement.  Brazil cut its benchmark Selic rate to a record-low 7.5
percent last month, while Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
slowing inflation in his country offered policy makers room to
bolster the economy after signs of weakening growth.  The U.S. Federal Reserve will probably announce a third
round of bond purchases today, according to almost two-thirds of
economists in a Bloomberg survey, while also extending the
duration of its zero-interest-rate policy into 2015.  Bank Rossii “had to react to elusive inflation targets,”
Vladimir Kolychev, head of research at  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s  OAO
Rosbank (ROSB)  unit in Moscow, who correctly predicted the rate
increases, said by e-mail.  “The decision adds to the evidence that the central bank’s
reaction function is more inflation averse and forward looking
than might be broadly perceived by the market,” Kolychev said.  ‘Hawkish Move’  Russia’s rate increase will have “mostly signaling
effects” and indicates that inflation risks are “somewhat
overestimated,” while threats to economic growth are “unfairly
ignored,” Dmitry Polevoy, the Moscow-based chief economist of
 ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s Russian unit, said in an e-mail.  It was “a hawkish move in a dovish world,” Polevoy said.
Still, the central bank “is the king and, given its reasoning,
more hikes couldn’t be excluded now.”  President  Vladimir Putin , who returned to the Kremlin for a
third term in May, has touted last year’s record-low 6.1 percent
inflation rate as a major economic success and told investors
and foreign leaders at an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
summit last week that Russia would continue cutting inflation.  Inflation ‘Spiral’  This year’s grain harvest will reach 70 million to 75
million tons, down from 94.2 million tons in 2011 because of
drought, the  Agriculture Ministry  said in August.  “The fact that the rate increase came today was unexpected
but it was bound to happen sooner or later,” Sergey Fundobny,
the head of research at Arbat Capital Management in Moscow, said
by phone. “It was clear the central bank would take steps to
curb inflation, which was starting to spiral out of control.”  Economic growth in the world’s largest energy exporter
slowed to 4 percent from a year earlier in the second quarter as
China’s cooling expansion and  Europe ’s debt crisis sapped demand
for Russian commodities exports.  Russia’s economic expansion may slow to less than 3 percent
on an annual basis in the second half, down from 4.5 percent in
the first six months, as energy exports stagnate, Economy
Minister Andrei Belousov told lawmakers in Moscow yesterday.  Growth will slow next year from 2012, according to  German Gref , chief executive officer at  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , Russia’s largest
lender.  “We’re clearly seeing lower demand and falling prices for
our exported goods,” Gref told reporters in Moscow yesterday.
“Growth is slowing in China, and we see what’s happening in the
 euro zone , so I think this is a trend we’ll have to come to
terms with.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  