-- Ryan Treated Like Republican Royalty as He Returns to U.S. House
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-09-14T04:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/ryan-treated-like-republican-royalty-as-he-returns-to-congress.html
Vice presidential nominee  Paul Ryan ’s fellow Republicans met him with fanfare when he made his
first appearance on Capitol Hill since his selection as  Mitt Romney ’s running mate on Aug. 11.  “It’s great to be here, it’s great to be back,” Ryan told
reporters yesterday as Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican ,
escorted him to the House floor after an informal meeting of
Republicans in Boehner’s office.  “I miss them,” Ryan said of his Republican colleagues,
who gave him a standing ovation when he entered the House
chamber. Ryan was swarmed by reporters as he entered and exited.  Boehner, asked how he liked playing second fiddle to Ryan,
joked that it was “just fine.”  Ryan, a Wisconsin lawmaker and House Budget Committee
chairman, returned to Washington yesterday to vote for a stopgap
spending measure that funds the government at levels set forth
in the 2011 deficit-reduction agreement. The measure, which was
adopted 329-91, provides funds at a higher level than Ryan
called for in his budget plan, which the House passed in March.  Already a hero of the Tea Party movement, Ryan returned to
 Capitol Hill  with celebrity status. Republicans who attended the
informal gathering in Boehner’s office said his colleagues, some
of whom had served with Ryan for years, lined up to have their
pictures taken with him.  Ohio Representative Jean Schmidt said Ryan made small talk
with members, trading stories about their families.  ’Still Paul’  “He’s still Paul,” Schmidt said. For  House Republicans ,
Ryan’s newly conferred status is “not strange, it’s
refreshing,” she said.  “It’s exciting for members of the House to have a person
like that on the campaign,” Republican Whip  Kevin McCarthy  told
reporters.  Ryan’s meeting with his colleagues was arranged after he
called Texas Representative  Jeb Hensarling , chairman of the
House Republican Conference, McCarthy said.  Utah Republican  Jason Chaffetz  said Ryan was talking to
members about life on the campaign trail. Chaffetz said he gave
the vice presidential nominee some advice of his own: “Get out
of here. Go back to Ohio.”  Republicans in competitive contests pushed aside Democrats’
assertions that that their support for Ryan’s budget proposal,
particularly for converting Medicare to a voucher program for
future seniors, will be a liability in their campaigns.  Medicare Debate  “Medicare has been important from the start, and I’ve been
talking about these issues in the context of our path to
prosperity budget even since the 2010 election,” said
Representative Nan Hayworth, a New York Republican. “I have a
tremendously positive relationship with our seniors because they
know we’re fighting to save Medicare.”  Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican, said he
joked with Ryan, famously a fitness buff, that he needed to
“get back to the gym.” Flake said he hopes Ryan will make
another trip to Arizona to support his Senate race.  “We’ll take him whenever we can get him,” Flake said.  Democrats  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland and Charlie Rangel
of New York were among the House lawmakers who had conversations
with Ryan at the back of the chamber.  “It was all very congenial,”  Van Hollen , the top Democrat
on the Budget Committee, told reporters.  Another Democrat, California Representative  Anna Eshoo ,
said she applauded Ryan when he entered the chamber because
“he’s our colleague.”  “There is a great institutional pride about who enters
those doors and who works in the chaos known as the U.S. House
of Representatives,” Eshoo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  