-- Sainsbury’s Champagne Beats Harrods, Fortnum in Tasting
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-09-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/sainsbury-s-champagne-beats-harrods-fortnum-in-tasting.html
A supermarket Champagne costing
20.99 pounds ($33.88) from J Sainsbury Plc beat more-expensive
varieties from Harrods and Fortnum & Mason in a blind tasting.  Ten bottles were put to the test by Sandia Chang, 32, the
co-owner of Bubbledogs, a new  London  restaurant that serves
grower Champagnes and gourmet hot dogs. (Harrods triumphed in a
similar tasting in 2008.)  The tasting was filmed for Bloomberg Television. Here’s
what Chang had to say.  Co-op Les  Pionniers 2004  (P&C Heidsieck), 24.99 pounds ($40.23):  “Nice deep color. Really fine mousse, really fine bubbles.
Little bit herbaceous, almost like celery or fennel. It’s very
different because you get floral, you get fruits. I’d definitely
drink it at home. I’d say it’s a blanc de noirs or a blend but
definitely more on the pinot noir side. Something different now.
It’s good aromas. Really big.” 7/10.  Fortnum & Mason Brut Reserve (Louis Roederer), 29.50 pounds:  “It’s a light style. A little bit subtle and quite acidic
at the end. Little bit of hay. Once again, the bubbles are quite
small. It’s pretty. It’s definitely very refreshing. I think
there’s higher sugar levels in this. It’s OK. I like the last
one better. This is one of those Champagnes you’d drink when
it’s hot outside, on the patio. You could just drink about four
bottles.” 5/10.  Harrods Premier Cru (M Hostomme et Fils), 29.95 pounds:  “This one’s very different. It smells like a grassy
field.” Will it work with hot dogs? “Anything refreshing, cold
with bubbles will work with hot dogs. Champagne works with
everything. Champagne is just a great glass of wine with
bubbles. This is probably Chardonnay. It’s a bit more on the
citrus side, with very unripe apples, crunchy ice-cold apples.”
6/10.  Lidl Comte de Brismand (Bissinger), 12.99 pounds:  “It’s a little darker yellow, lightly golden. Toast, a
little bit oak or something. This one’s really perfume-like.
Like lots of orange blossoms in there: orange oils, citrus
peels. It’s a little bit too much for me. It’s almost like when
you have your face in the bowl of pot pourri. Good for a group
of ladies out celebrating a birthday, just to start the night
off. I feel it’s heavier in dosage.” 4/10.  Marks & Spencer (MKS)  Oudinot Brut (Oudinot), 24.00 pounds:  “Back to a more classic Champagne note. This one has that
toffee apple, more of a red apple. It’s a little salty, like
pork scratchings with apple sauce. There’s a little bit of
toastiness in it, almost like a baked red apple with a bit of
pie crust. It’s not as tart as I like. I do like very clean,
lower in sugar levels. That’s very nice.” 6/10.  Moet & Chandon (MC)  Imperial (31.99 pounds at Tesco.com):  “This is quite pale in color, very ice cold. This has more
dosage. It tastes a little bit steely at the end, like when you
eat canned products and you get that after-taste of the steel
around it, like canned corn. It smells like something very
familiar, like a very feminine men’s cologne. I’m not saying
it’s not a good thing, it’s just not my style.” 4/10  Sainsbury’s (SBRY)  Blanc de Noirs (Soc Cooperative de Producteurs des
Grands Terroirs), 20.99 pounds:  “This has seen a little bit of oak or maybe a little bit
of age. It’s much creamier and toasty. Definitely wood on this
one: You can taste it, and smell it as well. It’s like smoked
bacon or smoked barbecue sauce. Every producer has its own style
and sometimes in between there’s producers that get lost and try
to imitate something else and it’s neither this nor that. This
is actually quite nice: It’s got a lot of character.” 8/10  Selfridges Esprit Brut (Henri Giraud, Ay), 29.99 pounds:  “The color’s certainly interesting. This smells like a
vintage. This one has a bit of that sherry note in it. This
style of Champagne is my style of Champagne, except that I think
there’s quite a lot of sugar in here. It’s got this nutty,
sherry note at the end. It’s a little bit like drinking sherry
and eating salted Marcona almonds.” 7.5/10  Tesco (TSCO)  Premier Cru (Union Champagne), 19.99 pounds:  “This is quite light in color with vigorous bubbles.” Do
you drink supermarket Champagnes? “I drink a lot of Waitrose
Cava. My husband (chef James Knappett, who co-owns Bubbledogs)
likes to eat beans on toast on his days off. I like to drink
affordable wine. It doesn’t have to be a grand marque. It
doesn’t have to be expensive to be good. This one is very high
in dosage, quite on the sweet side. It tastes like artificial
sweetener in there.” 3/10  Waitrose Blanc de Noirs (Alexandre Bonnet), 20.99 pounds:  “There’s a lot of sweeter Champagnes among these, so
perhaps the taste of the public is more on the sweet side. The
more complicated, toasty yeasty sherry-like Champagne seems to
be on the high-end market. This one has just a touch of oak.
It’s still quite high in dosage, too high for my taste but I
wouldn’t say it’s bad. The bubbles are nice. This is quite
average. It’s one of those Champagnes you don’t need a special
occasion to drink or you buy because your in-laws are over and
you need to suck up to them. This is an everyday drinking
Champagne. It’s OK.” 6/10.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on arts,  Lewis Lapham  on
history and  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 