-- Sands Lawyer Testifies He Didn’t Tell Judge About E-Mails
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-09-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/sands-lawyer-says-he-didn-t-tell-judge-about-macau-e-mails-1-.html
An attorney for  Las Vegas Sands
Corp. (LVS)  testified that he didn’t tell the judge presiding over a
lawsuit brought by the fired head of the casino operator’s
Chinese unit about e-mails from Macau that had been reviewed in
 Las Vegas .  Justin Jones testified yesterday on the third and final day
of a hearing over whether lawyers for  Sheldon Adelson ’s gaming
company made misrepresentations or weren’t forthright last year
with a  Nevada  state court judge about the presence of evidence
from Macau that had been shipped to Las Vegas.  Jones was asked by a lawyer for the fired chief executive
officer of  Sands China Ltd. (1928) ,  Steven Jacobs , what action he took
when the parent company’s attorneys told the judge computer
files sought by Jacobs as evidence in his breach-of-contract
case couldn’t be transferred from Macau to Las Vegas.  “I did nothing,” said Jones, who’s no longer involved in
the case.  The casino operators face possible court sanctions for
failing to disclose to the judge they shipped computer files
from Macau to Las Vegas as early as 2010, shortly after Jacobs
was fired and had sued the companies. The company had argued
that a privacy law in Macau prevented them from bringing data to
the U.S.  Clark County  District Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez said at the
conclusion of the hearing yesterday that she will issue a
written opinion by the beginning of next week.  Jacobs’s E-mails  Jones said he and other lawyers for Las Vegas Sands last
year reviewed some of Jacobs’s e-mails before the company
represented to the judge that documents in Macau had to be
reviewed there by Sands China lawyers and cleared with local
authorities prior to being produced as evidence for the lawsuit
in Nevada.  “I don’t believe there were very many,” Jones said,
referring to the Jacobs e-mails he reviewed.  Stephen Peek, another lawyer for Las Vegas Sands, testified
Sept. 11 that he had disclosed to Jacobs’s previous lawyers last
year that data from Macau was in Las Vegas. He said, under
questioning from Todd Bice, one of Jacobs’s current lawyers,
that he didn’t tell them what exactly the data was or that they
included e-mails from Jacobs.  “I didn’t think it was my obligation to tell him what my
work product was,” Peek said.  Sands China  Bice told the judge Sept. 11 that Las Vegas Sands and Sands
 China  were selectively invoking the Macau Personal Data
Protection Act to prevent having to produce evidence from Macau
requested by Jacobs while they themselves had been reviewing
Jacobs’s e-mails. He also challenged Sands lawyers contention
that they would have disclosed what they had if asked.  “Well, guess what,” Bice said. “We’ve asked them
multiple times.”  Gonzalez said Sept. 11 “there are certain inconsistencies
in the spin that was made to the court.”  She said her focus now was on possible misrepresentations
made to her and that Jacobs’s lawyers may separately pursue
claims that they were deceived.  Gonzalez said at a previous hearing that she wouldn’t send
anybody to jail over the disclosure issue and that she was more
likely to issue a monetary sanction than to preclude Sands from
introducing the evidence in court.  Bice said a monetary sanction alone wouldn’t have an effect
on Adelson, for whom writing a $1 million check would be only a
“blip.”  ‘Outright Lying’  “This was outright lying to the court and lying to us
about the documents, and they knew it,” he he said.  Peek told the judge “this has been a very painful
procedure for me.”  “I know from the court’s remarks that I have disappointed
her,” he said.  Brad Brian, a lawyer for Sands China, said the lawyers and
the company had been caught in a dilemma because of the Macau
law.  “We do get it,” Brian told the judge. “This proceeding
itself has created a stigma. To have lawyers testify is itself a
sanction.”  The case was put on hold last year by the Nevada Supreme
Court while Gonzalez resolves whether claims against Sands China
belong in the state’s courts. Sands China, a majority-owned unit
of Las Vegas Sands that is incorporated in the  Cayman Islands ,
has said in court filings that it doesn’t do business in Nevada.  Jacobs contends that some of the evidence withheld by the
parent company and its China unit shows that Nevada courts have
jurisdiction over his case.  The case is Jacobs v. Las Vegas Sands, A627691-B, District
Court, Clark County, Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  