-- Sanofi Wins U.S. FDA Approval for Multiple Sclerosis Pill
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-09-13T16:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/sanofi-wins-u-s-fda-approval-for-multiple-sclerosis-pill.html
Sanofi (SAN)  won U.S. backing to sell the
multiple sclerosis pill Aubagio, enabling the drugmaker to enter
a $12 billion industry, even as analysts said the medicine may
be overshadowed by more effective products.  The  Food and Drug Administration  approved the once-a-day
medicine for relapsing forms of the debilitating disease, the
agency said yesterday in a statement. The treatment, also known
by the scientific name of teriflunomide, is for patients in the
initial phases of the disease, Paris-based Sanofi said.  Sales may be limited because the drug isn’t as effective as
 Novartis AG’s (NOVN)  Gilenya, the first MS pill approved in  Europe , or
Tysabri from Elan Corp. and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ,  Alistair Campbell ,
an analyst at Berenberg Bank, wrote in a report today. Biogen’s
oral drug BG-12 also may win U.S. approval by the end of the
year, he said.  Aubagio “has clear limitations,” Campbell wrote. “We
doubt the drug will seriously affect Gilenya or Tysabri, where
prescriptions are largely driven by efficacy.”  The treatment may garner  annual sales  of $330 million in
2016, according to the average of four analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sanofi shares slipped 0.6 percent to 66.91 euros in Paris.
The stock has returned 24 percent this year including reinvested
dividends,  compared with  a 14 percent return for the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Safety Profile  The treatment will be an important option for many MS
patients, Genzyme executives said today in a telephone
interview.  Aubagio’s safety is “very well characterized,” and the
medicine “is in a different place, targeting a different
patient population” from Gilenya, said Michael Panzara,
Genzyme’s therapeutic area head for multiple sclerosis and
immune diseases. Instead, Gilenya has “an evolving safety
profile, which we continue to learn about every day,” he said.  U.S. and European regulators this year placed new safety
precautions on the use of the Novartis product, following a
review that was triggered by the deaths of 15 patients.  Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  has been building
Sanofi’s multiple sclerosis business since last year’s $20.1
billion purchase of U.S. biotechnology company Genzyme Corp.,
from which it gained another experimental MS medicine, Lemtrada.
Sanofi needs new drugs such as Aubagio and Lemtrada to help
offset revenue losses from generic competition to best-sellers
including the blood-thinner Plavix.  Genzyme Milestone  “This approval is a huge milestone for Genzyme,” Bill Sibold, head of Genzyme’s MS business, said in the interview.  The FDA refused to accept Sanofi’s application to review
Lemtrada and the company will resubmit the request in a new
format, Sanofi said Aug. 27.  Multiple sclerosis  is caused by an abnormal immune response
that attacks the protective covering that surrounds nerve cells
in the brain and spinal cord. The assault stops nerve cells from
sending signals, sapping patients’ energy, blurring their vision
and slowly robbing them of mobility, balance and coordination.  Relapse Rates  The relapse rate for patients using Aubagio was about 30
percent lower than the rate for those taking a placebo, Russell Katz, director of the Division of Neurology Products in the
FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in the
agency’s statement. The drug will carry a boxed warning about
the risk of liver toxicity and  birth defects .  The disease, more common in women than in men, is believed
to affect more than 2.1 million people worldwide. Many patients
have trouble staying on current therapies because the drugs are
difficult to use or cause side effects, according to the
 National Multiple Sclerosis Society .  While Aubagio is a once-daily tablet, Lemtrada, also known
as alemtuzumab, is a so-called monoclonal antibody administered
to patients through infusions for five consecutive days when
they begin the treatment and for another three days 12 months
later.  Aubagio will cost $45,000 a year in the U.S., 28 percent
less than Gilenya, Sibold said.  The lower price is due to the fact that Aubagio is less
effective than the Novartis product and carries the risk of
liver side effects, analysts at Barclays Plc’s investment-
banking unit including  Mark Purcell  said in a report today.  “We remain cautious on Aubagio and continue to believe
that the company’s other MS pipeline asset, Lemtrada, will be
significantly more successful,” they wrote.  Sanofi, Europe’s third-biggest drugmaker, has other
experimental MS compounds in its pipeline in addition to
Lemtrada and Aubagio, and it may grow the business further
through partnerships and acquisitions, Panzara reiterated today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  