-- Germany’s Schaeuble Cautions Spain Against Aid Bid
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-09-13T22:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/schaeuble-cautions-spain-against-aid-request-in-poke-at-france.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  discouraged  Spain  from seeking a full international
bailout, saying another request for outside aid risked a new
round of financial-market turmoil.  “I’m not in the camp that says ‘take the money,’”
Schaeuble, 69, said in an interview in Berlin when asked about
moves to press Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government to seek
more aid. Spain “would be daft” to ask for a bailout on top of
the 100 billion euros ($130 billion) for its banks if it didn’t
need it, he said.  European finance ministers gathering for a two-day meeting
beginning in Cyprus today are at odds over Spain, as Rajoy
stalls on whether to request more aid from euro-area rescue
funds and win European Central Bank help to lower government
borrowing costs.  France  is pressing Spain to seek more help to
contain the euro-area crisis three years after it emerged in
 Greece , three people familiar with the negotiations said this
week.  “Spain will have to make its own decision,” French
Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  told reporters in Athens
yesterday in response to a question on a possible Spanish
bailout request. “But all tools are available to it if it needs
them.”  Done Enough  To qualify for ECB help, Spain would have to negotiate a
 credit line  or full loan program from the taxpayer-financed
rescue fund, and the question of which option to take is set to
dominate the meeting in Nicosia, Cyprus. A fight is brewing over
the conditions imposed -- budget cuts and economic reforms --
with Rajoy saying Spain has already done enough to deserve the
help.  “I don’t share the view of those who say Spain is so much
a focus of speculation in the financial markets that we should
advise the Spaniards to do anything different from what they’re
doing,” Schaeuble said in the interview yesterday in the
 Finance Ministry  in the German capital. “I’m one of those who
says we should do everything possible to convince the markets
that this speculation against Spain is without any basis in
reality.”  Spanish officials said this week their country may not need
a second bailout because the ECB’s Sept. 6 announcement that it
was prepared to buy  government bonds  has already cut borrowing
costs.  Spain’s ‘Desire’  “We are working with the governments and of course with
the German government,” with a common goal “to recover
economic growth in  Europe ,” Spanish Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro told reporters in  Madrid  ]yesterday when asked about
Germany’s stance on a rescue. “Our desire and intention is to
return again to being a reliable partner in Europe that doesn’t
ask for anything.”  One element fell into place two days ago as Germany’s top
constitutional court rejected bids to block ratification of the
euro region’s 500 billion-euro permanent rescue fund. German
President  Joachim Gauck  signed the bill into law yesterday.  Schaeuble denied that the German court’s decision had
limited the ECB’s power to buy bonds, saying that the central
bank’s mandate does that already. “There is no doubt” the ECB
is holding to its independent mandate and there is no reason to
assume it will overstep that, he said.  The finance ministers’ meeting will also take a first look
at proposals to make the ECB the center of a bank-supervision
system, part of German-backed moves to create tighter economic
and ultimately political union in Europe.  Schaeuble said that while it’s impractical for the ECB to
have oversight of all 6,000 banks in Europe as has been
proposed, he sees “no fundamental differences.”  At the same time, “we have a massive interest in and have
always demanded that there’s an efficient system of European
banking oversight,” he said. “We have to find a reasonable way
to do this” with the European Commission.  Related News and Information:
Top German Stories: TOPG
 European Debt Crisis : EXT4
European crisis monitor: CRIS  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  