-- Semprius Opening Solar-Panel Factory in North Carolina
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-09-13T19:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/semprius-opening-solar-panel-factory-in-north-carolina.html
Semprius Inc., a U.S. solar-panel
maker, will open its first manufacturing plant this month in
Henderson,  North Carolina , countering the trend of solar
factories shutting their doors.  The plant will eventually employ more than 250 people,
Durham, North Carolina-based Semprius said today in a statement.
The company’s products use lenses to focus sunlight on cells,
increasing the amount of electricity produced and making its
products more competitive, according to Chief Executive Officer
Joe Carr.  At least four U.S. solar companies including Solyndra LLC
filed for  bankruptcy protection  and shuttered their factories in
the past 13 months, as a global glut drove down prices for
standard photovoltaic panels.  Semprius’ modules are the most efficient in the world and
“very price competitive” with rivals such as  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) 
and  SunPower Corp. (SPWR) , among others, Carr said today in an
interview. “In very high brightness areas where we do our best
work, we’re highly competitive.” He declined to discuss cost
details.  Semprius’s concentrated photovoltaic panels convert about
33.9 percent of the energy in sunlight into electricity,
according to the statement. SunPower Corp., a panel maker
majority owned by Total SA, said Mar. 27 its polysilicon solar
cells are the most efficient in commercial production, with 24
percent conversion rates.  Solar Bankruptcies  The Henderson plant has the capacity to produce about 5 to
6 megawatts of panel per year, and may be expanded to as much as
35 megawatts, Carr said.  Semprius will deliver the panels to customers including
Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne and  Siemens AG (SIE) , which bought a
roughly 16 percent stake in the company in June 2011.  Evergreen Solar Inc. and SpectraWatt Inc. both filed for
bankruptcy in August 2011 and Solyndra did so the following
month, followed in February by Energy Conversion Devices Inc.  Semprius developed its  technology  with support from the
U.S. Energy Department’s  National Renewable Energy Laboratory 
and has raised $40 million from investors over the past 15
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  