-- Siemens Is Sued for Rights Violations by Argentine
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-09-13T22:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/siemens-is-sued-for-rights-violations-by-argentine.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, was sued by an ex-investigator for
Argentina’s government who claimed the company had a former
employee beat him after he uncovered corruption in a government
contract.  Carlos Moran filed his lawsuit yesterday in federal court
in Miami. Moran, who worked as an investigator for an Argentine
government agency, claimed the Munich-based company and its
Argentine unit were responsible for attacks he suffered after
discovering alleged bribes and kickbacks in a $1 billion
contract Siemens won to produce a national identity card.  Moran said in his complaint that he has been subject to
“physical assaults at gunpoint, being run off the road,
stalking, continuous harassing phone calls to his home, threats
of kidnapping and threats to burn down his home,” which he
blames on “mercenaries hired by Siemens  Argentina ” seeking to
intimidate him.  Alexander Becker, a spokesman for Siemens, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail after business hours seeking
comment on the lawsuit. Another Siemens spokesman, Philipp Encz,
didn’t return a telephone call after business hours seeking
comment.  The suit was brought under the U.S. Alien Tort Claims Act
and seeks $100 million in damages.  Contract Canceled  Argentina in 2001 canceled Siemens’s contract to produce
identity cards, according to the complaint.  In December, eight former Siemens executives were charged
by U.S. prosecutors with conspiring to bribe Argentine
officials, including cabinet ministers and presidents, to land
the contracts and cover up evidence of the payoffs.  Siemens pleaded guilty four years ago to violating U.S.
anti-corruption laws and agreed to pay $1.6 billion to settle
bribery probes in the U.S. and  Germany .  The civil lawsuit is Moran v. Siemens, 12-cv-23334, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Florida  (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  