-- China’s Amazing Disappearing Vice President
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-09-13T22:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/silence-on-xi-undermines-chinese-leaders-legitimacy.html
What if  Mitt Romney  disappeared?  The question isn’t the fantasy (or the nightmare) of the
Obama campaign. It is a direct analog to the situation in China,
where Vice President  Xi Jinping , the man everyone expects to
become Communist Party leader next month and president next
year, hasn’t been seen since Sept. 1.  Xi’s absence is totally unexplained by government
spokesmen, though the official  Guangxi Daily  reported that the
vice president was among the top officials who sent condolences
to the family of a party member who died on Sept. 6. That won’t
dispel the rumors. The most credible ones suggest he had a heart
attack. But other ailments have been floated, including a stroke
(explaining why he can’t be seen in public) and a sports-related
back injury.  More fancifully, it has been suggested that Xi was hit by a
car driven by a frustrated general who was trying to assassinate
him. And inevitably, some have speculated that a kind of
political difficulty has arisen to block Xi’s succession: In
essence, that the president-to-be of  China  has been purged.  How costly are these rumors to the leadership of the
Chinese Communist Party? Someone must be judging that, however
damaging the silence, the truth would be worse. But this
assessment seems increasingly mistaken with every passing day.  Succession Process  The problem isn’t the uncertainty. After all, someone will
be in charge when the party congress meets, whether in October
as planned or later. That person will presumably be the next
president -- even if that someone is the current leader,  Hu Jintao . And there is no particular reason to expect a radical
change in policy from that person.  What’s at stake here is legitimacy. Twice now, in 1992 and
2002, party congresses have met and inaugurated a new generation
of leadership in a regular and predictable fashion. Until now
you would have bet on the October transition taking place with
almost the same certainty as the  U.S. presidential election .  These orderly transitions have been hugely important. They
demonstrate that while China is no democracy, it also isn’t a
dictatorship. Dictatorships don’t have regular, planned
transitions. Just ask  Gamal Mubarak , the son of the former
president of  Egypt  who some expected would inherit the job.  Of course, the way China’s senior leaders are chosen is
very far from transparent. Imagine the largest smoke-filled room
in the world, with decisions made via a complex network of
connections, reputations and rewards.  But the opacity doesn’t much matter provided the public
sees a consensus-driven result and believes that merit had at
least something to do with the selection process. When Bo Xilai,
a candidate for the Politburo standing committee, was purged
after his wife’s murder of a British businessman, the message
for the public wasn’t only that some senior leaders were
corrupt, but that they could lose their positions as a result.  The great danger to the Chinese Communist Party posed by
Xi’s disappearance is that it calls into question the regularity
and predictability of the transition. The speculation about Xi’s
whereabouts is harmful not primarily because of its content, but
because it reminds the Chinese public that the transition may
not be smooth, after all.  The censors have blocked Internet searches for Xi’s name in
China. But apart from workarounds by Chinese bloggers, sooner or
later even people with better things to do than follow politics
will notice the absence of the most important man in the
country.  News Blackout  When they do, it won’t matter to the public that, a
generation ago, Chinese leaders disappeared with some frequency.
Premier  Li Peng  disappeared after an apparent heart attack in
1993, and the public was in the dark for two months in 1971 when
Lin Biao, then the country’s No. 2, was killed in a plane crash.  These disappearances took place before the party introduced
regular transitions, when the entire process of leadership-
selection was highly volatile.  Mao Zedong  himself was in and out
of power; and during the era of the Cultural Revolution,
factions such as the Gang of Four rose and fell with the
changing political climate. From the standpoint of contemporary
Chinese governments, those were the bad old days.  Not by coincidence, those selection practices changed with
the market reforms that have led to China’s extraordinary
 economic growth . Regularity and predictability in government are
important for creating regularity and predictability in the
economy.  Today’s party has built its legitimacy on economic growth,
not on communist ideology, which has been largely abandoned.
Pragmatism has been its chief virtue, and its most important
claim to be acting on behalf of the people.  Deriving legitimacy from pragmatism and growth has largely
worked. But in the long run, legitimacy will require showing
that the rule of the party is better than the alternatives.
Democracy has many well-known flaws, but it has the benefit of
being very good at transitions. The party’s efforts to invent a
nondemocratic system that provides regular transitions has been
impressive. Now it needs to prove this transition will happen.  There is some play in the joints. The U.S. survived the
Bush v. Gore fight of 2000, which itself cast doubt on
democracy’s promise of regularity. If Xi surfaces soon, and the
party congress takes place in October as has long been expected,
it may actually be evidence of the success of China’s system in
creating stable expectations.  But the party is playing with fire. Its next leader had
better come out of the closet soon -- or the system he inherits
will be substantially less legitimate than it was before Sept.
1.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  tax spat in France , on
Egypt’s dance around the  U.S. embassy breach  and on the
disingenuousness of last year’s  debt-ceiling debate ;  Jonathan
Alter  on Romney’s  “No Apology” foreign policy ;  Stephen Carter  on
the need for politics to  stop at the water’s edge ; Ezra Klein on
a  carbon-tax fantasy ; Willie Pesek on  China’s missing No. 2  man;
Jonathan Weil on banks that admit their  balance sheets  are
awful;  Alex Marshall  on why  capitalism and government  are
friends after all.  To contact the writer of this article:
 Noah Feldman  at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 