-- SNB Will Maintain Franc Defense as Ceiling Kept on Hold: Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-09-13T12:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/snb-keeps-franc-ceiling-on-hold-pledges-to-maintain-defense.html
The Swiss central bank pledged to
uphold its yearlong defense of the franc by purchasing foreign
currencies in “unlimited quantities” as it cut its inflation
and economic growth forecasts.  The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN) , led by President Thomas Jordan,
today maintained the currency ceiling at 1.20 francs per euro
and reiterated that it will  uphold the measure  “with the utmost
determination.” The Zurich-based central bank also kept its
 benchmark interest rate  at zero, as forecast by all 16
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The SNB’s foreign-currency reserves increased 64 percent to
418 billion francs ($446 billion) in the year through August as
policy makers stepped up euro purchases to stave off attacks
spurred by the region’s turmoil. With the economy faltering and
consumer prices falling on an annual basis for almost a year,
the central bank will maintain the cap into 2013, economists at
UBS AG,  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  and Credit Suisse Group AG said.  “The franc could appreciate massively if the SNB dropped
its ceiling and they will keep it on hold for the foreseeable
future,” said Maxime Botteron, an economist at Credit Suisse in
Zurich. Still, “I expect currency purchases to continue to
decrease if tensions on the financial markets diminish
further.”  The Swiss franc, which is seen as a haven in times of
global turmoil, traded at 1.2124 versus the euro as of 11:31
a.m. in Zurich. It was at 93.87 centimes versus the dollar. The
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 0.4 percent, while  Switzerland ’s
benchmark stock index was little changed.  Fed Decision  The dollar weakened amid speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will announce it will buy bonds under a program of quantitative
easing. It slid 0.2 percent to $1.2920 per euro after touching
$1.2937 yesterday, the weakest since May 11.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  plans to release a
statement at about 12:30 p.m. in  Washington . The Fed will also
release forecasts for unemployment and inflation and Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  holds a press conference.  In their  inflation projections , Swiss policy makers
forecast consumer prices to fall 0.6 percent this year before
increasing 0.2 percent in 2013 and 0.4 percent in 2014. In June,
they had seen prices declining 0.5 percent in 2012, followed by
gains of 0.3 percent and 0.6 percent, respectively.  There is “no threat of inflation” in the “foreseeable
future,” the SNB said. It also cut its 2012 growth forecast to
1 percent from a June projection of about 1.5 percent, saying
that downside risks remain high “in the near term.”  “The SNB will not permit an appreciation of the franc,
given the serious impact this would have,” it said. “It stands
ready to take further measures at any time.”  Euro ‘Insecurity’  Jordan told Swiss radio DRS1 in an interview broadcast
today that the SNB is “ready to intervene at any time if
needed.”  “It’s not just speculators that are to blame that we have
a strong franc,” he said. “We have a huge insecurity of market
participants about the future of the euro, about the future of
other currencies, and that’s why the franc has gained a lot in
attractiveness. That forces us to be active around the clock and
conduct a policy that’s making it totally clear to markets that
we’ll impose the minimum  exchange rate  under any
circumstances.”  The SNB introduced the ceiling on Sept. 6, 2011, after the
franc’s surge to near parity with the euro sparked deflation
threats. While the franc breached the ceiling just once in
April, decreasing import costs have pushed down  consumer prices .  Currency Hoard  To protect the economy, policy makers have been forced to
pile up foreign-currency holdings amounting to about 73 percent
of gross domestic product. Euros accounted for 60 percent of
total reserves at the end of the second quarter, up from 52
percent in the previous three months.  Pressure on the ceiling eased over the past month, after
the  European Central Bank  pledged on Aug. 2 to purchase
government bonds of distressed nations such as  Spain  and  Italy 
in tandem with Europe’s rescue fund. The Swiss franc weakened to
an almost eight-month low of 1.2155 per euro last week.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  unveiled details of the euro-
crisis plan last week, saying the central bank would spend as
much as needed to contain borrowing costs in countries if they
sign up to bailout conditions first. ECB council member Panicos Demetriades said in a Bloomberg interview yesterday that the ECB
threat may mean that “in the end, action is not needed.”  “No one will speculate against the unlimited firepower of
a central bank,” he said.  Economic Outlook  Still, with the euro region’s economic slump deepening and
at least five  member states  including Italy and Spain in
recessions, the Swiss economy may struggle to regain strength
after shrinking 0.1 percent in the second quarter. Manufacturing
output contracted for a fifth straight month in August and
exports declined in July.  Pressure on the franc “should abate thanks to the market
reaction to the positive announcements from the ECB” and the
German court’s endorsement of the euro bailout fund, said Julien Manceaux, an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “This does not
mean that demand will not return, but for the moment further
measures by the SNB to support the floor -- capital flow
limitations or negative  interest rates  -- are not likely.”  In  Asia ,  India ’s  capital-goods production , a gauge of
corporate expenditure on factories and machinery, slid in July
for a fifth straight month, the longest stretch since declines
over most of 2009, a report showed yesterday. Central banks in
 South Korea ,  Indonesia  and the Philippines today kept their
benchmark interest rates unchanged.  In the U.S., the Fed will probably announce a third round
of bond purchases, according to almost two-thirds of economists
in a Bloomberg survey, while also extending the duration of its
zero-interest-rate policy into 2015.  U.S. producer prices rose 1.2 percent in August from July,
based on a Bloomberg survey before the Labor Department reports
the figure later today. Consumer prices gained 0.6 percent, a
separate survey showed before data tomorrow. Both increases
would be the biggest since 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  