-- Sodic Seeks to Void Land Deal With Solidere, Wants Compensation
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2012-09-13T09:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/sodic-seeks-to-void-land-deal-with-solidere-wants-compensation.html
Six of October Development &
Investment Co.  wants to void agreements and get compensation
from Solidere International, saying that the Beirut-based
company didn’t develop a land plot according to plan.  The Egyptian luxury real-estate company filed for
arbitration in  Egypt , seeking to void two agreements dated 2007
and 2008 with Solidere to sub-develop the 250,000 square-meter
plot known as  Westown , it said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. Ashraf Farid, executive director of operations at
Sodic, declined to specify how much compensation the company is
seeking.  “For the past couple of years we asked Solidere to provide
their urban design masterplans, so we could get the necessary
permits for the project, but nothing moved from their side,”
Farid said in a phone interview yesterday. “So, we will go
ahead and develop the land on our own.”  Mounib Hammoud, chief operating officer of  Solidere
International (SOLA) , wasn’t available when contacted at his office
yesterday and today. He didn’t respond to e-mailed questions
sent yesterday.  Sodic and Solidere had planned to invest 22 billion pounds
($3.6 billion) to develop two projects, the first, Westown, in
Cairo’s southern suburb of Giza and the second in New Cairo,
according to a statement on Sodic’s website dated Jan. 1, 2008.
Westown, a residential and business district, is scheduled for
completion in 2015, Farid said yesterday.  The New Cairo project, called  Eastown , is now the subject
of a legal dispute between Sodic and the government. The
contracts between Solidere on Eastown were never signed, so it
isn’t involved, Farid said.  Sodic shares  fell 1.4 percent to 25.50 pounds at 11 a.m. in
Cairo, valuing the company at 2.31 billion pounds. The stock has
more than tripled this year, compared with a 56 percent gain for
Egypt’s benchmark  EGX 30 Index. (EGX30)   Solidere’s Beirut-listed A shares declined 0.5 percent to
$12.85 in  Beirut , valuing the company at $2.22 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  