-- Soros Sees Rajoy Seeking Limited Aid to Avoid Political Fallout
-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-09-13T11:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/soros-sees-rajoy-seeking-limited-aid-to-avoid-political-fallout.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
said he expects Spain to request a “very limited” bailout from
the European Union, with Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  seeking to
avoid damaging political fallout at home.  “I think Spain will ask for a very limited contract which
does not require Spain to submit itself to the constant
supervision of the troika” -- comprising the European
Commission, European Central Bank and  International Monetary
Fund  -- Soros said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
Budapest today. “Because that would be a sacrifice of
sovereignty that politically would be fatal.”  Rajoy, who has been calling for central bank purchases of
government bonds since taking office in December, has spent six
weeks hesitating since ECB President  Mario Draghi  said Aug. 2
that any aid would have conditions attached.  Rajoy said this week the country may not need a second
bailout because the ECB’s pledge already cut borrowing costs.
Spain is trying to avoid surrendering more control over the
economy after handing power over the financial system to the EU
in return for a 100 billion-euro ($129 billion) bank rescue in
June. German policy makers have said they would force Spain to
accept conditions in exchange for support.  “It is impossible for Spain to ask for a full-fledged
program,” Soros said, adding that he saw a bailout of as much
as 100 billion euros. That might be provided in a precautionary
 credit line .  Rajoy is also handicapped by domestic politics, Soros said,
citing the “big tension between central governments and the
regions, particularly Catalonia. So there is a real threat of
Catalonian secession that has now emerged.”  Soros, 82, the founder of Soros Fund Management LLC, has a
net worth of $21.9 billion and is the world’s 24th-wealthiest
person, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  