-- South African Hedge Fund Rules Proposed by National Treasury
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-09-13T13:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/south-african-hedge-fund-rules-proposed-by-national-treasury.html
South Africa ’s treasury and the
Financial Services Board have proposed hedge fund regulations
aimed at protecting investors and promoting financial stability.  So-called restricted hedge funds, which are limited to
qualified investors, and retail hedge funds “will be subject to
some common regulatory standards, like registering and
reporting, to ensure transparency and the effective monitoring
of any systemic risk build-up,” the Pretoria-based regulators
said in an e-mailed statement today. “To manage risks, funds
will need to have a risk-management program which sets out the
types of derivatives the fund will use, the risks associated
with the derivatives and how those will be managed.”  The South African hedge fund industry is estimated at 31
billion rand ($3.7 billion), compared with $2 trillion globally,
according to the regulators. While the conduct of hedge fund
managers in South Africa is already regulated through the
Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act,  hedge funds 
aren’t yet regulated.  “The regulations will be helpful from an investor point of
view,” Arno Lawrenz, chief investment officer at  Cape Town ’s
Atlantic Asset Management, said by telephone today. “It is
onerous to get a license in South Africa, but rightfully so
because there have been far too many scams,” he said. The
proposed rules were created in conjunction with the industry and
the document will allow fund managers to check that there are no
unintended consequences as a result of legislation, he said.  Regulators have given industry until Nov. 15 to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  