-- South Africa’s Zuma Pledges Action to Restore Mine Stability
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-09-13T14:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/south-africa-s-zuma-pledges-action-to-restore-mine-stability.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
pledged to take steps to restore stability at the country’s
mines, following a series of illegal strikes that have halted
production at shafts owned by  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , Gold Fields Ltd. and
 Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)   “I have engaged with the ministers concerned to look at
how we deal with this issue, and very, very soon we will be able
to let the public know,” Zuma told lawmakers in  Cape Town 
today. “We are going to be acting very soon.”  At least 45 people have been killed since Aug. 10 at
Lonmin’s Marikana mine in the North West Province, following an
illegal work stoppage by rock drillers, and almost 28,000
workers there remain on strike. About 15,000 workers at  Gold
Fields Ltd. (GFI) ’s KDC West mine have also downed tools, while labor
unrest has halted Anglo American Platinum’s Rustenburg
operations.  “Worker demands for better wages can and should be
addressed within the country’s labor relations framework,” Zuma
said. “The illegal strikes, the incitement and intimidation
will not assist workers. Instead, it will make them and the
country worse off.”  Anglo, Impala and Lonmin account for more than half of
global platinum production. Prices for the metal have gained 18
percent since the Marikana strike started Aug. 10. Platinum
traded at $1,657.99 as of 2:28 p.m. in London.  Zuma criticized London-based Lonmin’s treatment of its
workers, saying it had not done enough to improve their  living
conditions  and provide them with decent housing.  “Conditions in the mines have been terrible all the
time,” he said. “We cannot stop criticizing companies who have
money. You could stand and criticize Lonmin, because the
progress that is there is not as in other mines. We have a right
to criticize Lonmin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  