-- South African Mine Mayhem Helps Malema Stage Political Comeback
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-09-13T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/south-african-mine-mayhem-helps-malema-stage-political-comeback.html
Julius Malema , the youth leader who
was thrown out of South Africa’s ruling party for sowing
discord, is using the most deadly mine violence since the end of
apartheid to stage a political comeback.  An advocate of nationalizing mines, Malema, 31, is
positioning himself as a champion of the miners’ fight for
better wages and  living conditions  in the wake of the killing of
34 striking workers by police at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine on
Aug. 16. Platinum prices have risen 19 percent since the
violence, and labor unrest has spread to operations owned by
 Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)   “As a tactician and as a person who reads the zeitgeist of
the moment, Julius Malema is unmatched,” Nic Borain, a
political analyst based in Cape Town who advises  BNP Paribas (BNP)  and
Cadiz Securities, said in a phone interview. The Marikana
killings and labor unrest “has thrown him a political
lifeline.”  The  African National Congress  has been unable to muzzle
Malema after expelling him in March as he campaigns to oust
President  Jacob Zuma , his former ally, at the party’s elective
conference in December. Malema has called for a general strike,
stoking tensions at a time when South Africa, producer of 75
percent of the world’s platinum, is at risk of being downgraded
by Moody’s Investors Services,  Fitch Ratings  and Standard &
Poor’s.  Speaking to about 60 soldiers in Johannesburg on Sept. 12,
Malema called South Africa a “banana republic” and Zuma a
dictator.  Presidential Lobbying  “These are the symptoms of dictatorship, a political
principal in the form of a president becoming more rich and
rich, and those that he is leading becoming more poorer and
poorer,” he said, the Johannesburg-based South African Press
Association reported.  Malema is lobbying for Deputy President  Kgalema Motlanthe 
to replace Zuma in December. The ANC, which led the fight
against white segregationist rule, has dominated South African
politics since taking power under  Nelson Mandela  in the first
all-race elections in 1994, controlling almost two-thirds of the
seats in Parliament. Under ANC rules, the party’s leader will be
its candidate for president in elections scheduled for 2014.  “Our economy must grow and create more jobs to absorb the
many unemployed and improve the standards of living,” Zuma told
lawmakers in Cape Town yesterday. “Worker demands for better
wages can and should be addressed within the country’s labor
relations framework. The illegal strikes, the incitement and
intimidation will not assist workers.”  ‘Fanning Flames’  Since the killing of mineworkers last month, Malema has
addressed miners at Marikana,  Gold One International Ltd. (GDO) ’s
Modder East gold mine and  Gold Fields’ (GFI)  KDC gold-mining complex,
Africa’s largest, and urged them to make the industry
“ungovernable.” More than 40,000 workers were on strike or
absent from work yesterday at operations owned by Anglo American
Platinum, the world’s biggest platinum producer, Lonmin and Gold
Fields.  “He is not responsible for the crisis, but he is fanning
the flames because he sees it as an opportunity to promote
himself,” Claude Baissac, the founder of Johannesburg-based
country-risk consultants Eunomix, said by phone. “He has to
exploit whatever dissent there is.”  Malema has also used the killings at Marikana to attack
 Cyril Ramaphosa , a former politician and one of  South Africa ’s
richest black businessmen who headed the ANC committee that
finalized his expulsion from the party. Ramaphosa owns a stake
in Lonmin’s mine.  ‘Political Connection’  “Lonmin had a high political connection; that is why our
people were killed,” Malema told miners on Aug. 18, according
to Sapa. “They were killed to protect the shares of Cyril
Ramaphosa.”  Mining accounts for two-thirds of exports in South Africa,
Africa’s largest gold producer, and employs about 500,000 of the
nation’s 50.6 million people, according to the Chamber of Mines.
Prolonged mine unrest would curb growth at a time when a global
slowdown is eroding demand for exports, undermining government
efforts to cut a 25 percent  unemployment  rate.  Malema’s political clout may be over-estimated due to his
high media profile, said Keith Gottschalk, a politics lecturer
as the University of the Western Cape in  Cape Town .  “Since Malema is no longer invited to ANC meetings, he
realizes the way of getting bigger headlines than anyone else is
to be present wherever there is a crisis,” Gottschalk said in a
phone interview. “I doubt he will be able to revive his
political career.”  Legal Troubles  Malema is also facing legal troubles, with both the police
anti-corruption unit and the tax agency investigating him over
his business dealings.  Since his expulsion from the ANC, Malema’s supporters have
formed an organization known as Friends of the Youth League to
promote his calls for a radical policy shift to create jobs,
address inequality and give the black majority a bigger stake in
Africa’s largest economy.  “Malema is surprisingly popular and we cannot dismiss his
call” for more strikes, Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at
Nomura International Plc in London, said in e-mailed comments.
“The  mining industry  can be effectively brought to a near
standstill simply by drillers striking, and they account for
only a small fraction of the subterranean workforce.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at   nseria@bloomberg.net  