-- Soy Rally Sends South American Growers Into Pastures
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-09-13T08:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/soy-rally-sends-south-american-growers-into-pastures.html
Leonildo Bares, a soybean grower
near the Amazon farming frontier town of Sinop, said he’s so
confident prices for the commodity will stay near record highs
that he’ll extend his crop to neighbors’ boggy cattle pastures.  Confined by  Brazil ’s crackdown on logging in the Amazon,
the farmer talked his neighbors into growing soybeans on their
cleared land and sharing the profit. Bares, whose 420-hectare
(1,038-acre) farm in the center-western state of Mato Grosso
extends on what was untouched rainforest in the 1970s, plans to
boost planting to 650 hectares. About 1 million hectares of the
state’s pastures, an area the size of  Jamaica , probably will be
converted to soybean crops in coming years, he predicts.  “The pastures of Mato Grosso can be turned into soybean
plantations and probably will,” Bares, who’s also the president
of Sinop’s farmers association, said in a telephone interview
from the city. “Anyone with the knowledge and money who’s
willing to come here and do it, can do it.”  South American farmers like Bares have become the
counterpoint to the worst drought in the U.S. Midwest in 76
years as they sow record crops during a global shortage of the
oilseed used as  animal feed  in  Asia . Brazil,  Argentina ,
 Paraguay ,  Bolivia  and Uruguay will boost output by 34 million
metric tons to 148.5 million in the 2012-2013 season, more than
offsetting a decline of about 11.5 million tons to 71.7 million
in the U.S., the Department of Agriculture said yesterday.  “Everyone is hoping that the South Americans in general
have a bumper harvest,” Sal Gilberte, who helps manage more
than $100 million at Brattleboro, Vermont-based Teucrium 
Trading LLC, said in a phone interview. “They are going to 
plant every square inch with soybeans.”  Futures Rally  Soybeans futures have jumped 45 percent this year on the
Chicago Board of Trade, reaching a record $17.89 a bushel on
Sept. 4, as the U.S. drought triggered concern that China-led
demand will outpace supplies.  Brazil, which will surpass the U.S. as the top producer 
for the first time, is leading the South American soybean boom 
as growers next month start planting a record 81-million-ton 
crop, a 23 percent jump from the previous harvest, the USDA 
said. Most harvesting in Brazil starts in February.  Cargill Inc., the biggest U.S. agriculture company, built
its $20 million Santarem grains loader on the  Amazon River  to
receive shipments from places such as Bares’s home city of
Sinop, a clearing in the Amazon that lies 1,600 kilometers (994
miles) from  Sao Paulo .  In Argentina, where drought damaged the past harvest,
soybean growers are also expanding into pastures as soil
benefits from rain caused by the El Nino weather pattern this
year. The country, which is the biggest producer after the U.S.
and Brazil, is set to increase output 34 percent to a record 55
million tons, the USDA said.  ‘More Dependent’  “The world has become more dependent on Brazil and
Argentina to raise soybeans,” said Douglas Carper, the
principal of Omaha, Nebraska-based DEC Capital Inc., a 
commodity trading adviser and hedge-fund consultant.  Soybean growers in Paraguay, a country the size of  Texas 
located southwest of Brazil, will turn vast cattle ranches in
the country’s central region into crops, said Luis Cubilla, a
researcher for growers association Capeco. The country’s next
soybean harvest will double to 8.1 million tons, according to
the USDA estimates. Neighboring Uruguay’s will climb 19 
percent to 1.9 million tons.  Bolivian farmers, who don’t have to contend with Brazil’s
stricter forestry laws, have been slashing trees to cash in on
the soybean boom, Tito Choque, a farmer and representative of
growers association Anapo, said in a telephone interview from
 San Pedro , an Amazonian town in the country’s southeast. The
drive means output will rise 4.5 percent to 2.3 million tons,
according to the USDA estimates.  U.S. Drought  The soybean shortage caused by the U.S. drought is so
severe that  China  may have to cut consumption “to accommodate
this loss in supply,”  Jeffrey Currie , commodities research head
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a Sept. 6 interview. The
shortage has sparked fears of a repeat of the food crises
between 2007 and 2008, the  United Nations  said Sept. 4.  China will continue to consume more meat and dairy
products, defying an economic slowdown in the country,
Christopher Langholz, a China-based executive for Cargill, said
in a Sept. 3 interview.  South America can ease the shortage of corn and soybeans
caused by the U.S. drought,  Alberto Weisser , chief executive
officer of  Bunge Ltd. (BG) , the world’s second-largest oilseed
processor, said in a July 25 call with analysts.  Logistics Challenge  The biggest challenge facing South American soybean
exporters and their buyers is infrastructure that’s relatively
insufficient and expensive. A lack of capacity at Brazilian
ports may delay the delivery of the country’s bumper harvest to
world markets, Hinsdale, Illinois-based agriculture consulting
company Soybean & Corn Advisor Inc. wrote Sept. 5 on its
website.  “One thing is the reality of supply and demand and the
other thing is the perception of supply and demand,” Tim Andriesen, managing director of agricultural commodities at the
CME Group, said in an interview in Sao Paulo on Sept. 11. “It
will take months before the South American crop actually gets to
the market.”  The lowest U.S. soybean inventories in four decades also
means that forecasts for a South American harvest that is still
being planted won’t allay concerns that supply will fall short
of demand in coming months, DEC Capital’s Carper said. The
shortage may cause soy futures to reach $20 per bushel in 
coming months, he said.  Amazon Deforestation  “We will not have enough U.S. soybeans left by the time we
get to the start of South America harvest,” Carper said. “We
have a long time to wait to solve the supply shortage.”  In Brazil, the expansion of soybean output is also limited
by increasing restrictions on deforestation.  The government has forced traders such as Cargill and 
Bunge to embargo farmers who cleared forest to grow crops 
after 2005.  Fires and logging cleared 6,418 square kilometers (2,478
square miles) of the country’s rainforest last year, a swath of
land more than five times  New York  city’s area, down from 7,000
in 2010 and about a third of the 18,165 destroyed 10 years
earlier, according to  data  from Brazil’s Science and Technology
Ministry. In the past 10 years, about 153,000 kilometers have
been cleared, an area larger than  Greece .  Legislation Change  Brazilian lawmakers are set to vote this month on laws to
grant an amnesty to overdue deforestation fines, while seeking
to simplify the enforcement of new penalties. President  Dilma Rousseff  in May vetoed a proposal to reduce the area farmers 
are required to preserve, while lawmakers are under pressure 
from producers to maintain the reduction.  Bolivian farmers are waiting for the government to lift a
ban on exports caused by a dispute over supplying the domestic
market that has suppressed local prices and left silos operated
by Cargill and Archer Daniels Midlands Co. with no room to
spare, Choque said.  “We are just waiting for the government to empty the
silos,” Choque said. “In this area there will be not even one
ounce of poverty if people can take advantage of soybean
prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  