-- Spain Says No Urgency to Seek Bailout as ECB Eases Yields
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-09-14T11:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/spain-says-no-urgency-to-seek-bailout-as-ecb-eases-yields.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  may be damned if he does and damned if he doesn’t.  The Spanish leader, whose domestic support plunged after he
raised taxes and cut spending in breach of campaign pledges, is
reluctant to seek a bailout because of the political cost of
meeting the financial conditions his economic rescuers would
demand. Yet if he doesn’t, he risks seeing an evaporation of the
recent decline in Spanish yields largely from expectations he
will draw on the help offered by the  European Central Bank .  Rajoy may just be postponing the pain because markets will
force his hand, say investors such as Craig Veysey, head of
fixed income at Principal Investment Management Ltd. in  London ,
part of Sanlam Group, which oversees $72 billion.  “Yields have come down a reasonable amount so they don’t
feel as though they are in such a rush to accept a full
sovereign bailout,” he said. “The market position will change
if  Spain  continues to remain relatively reluctant. It’s just a
bit of short-term political posturing and they will be forced by
markets to move in the direction of asking for proper support.”  Pressure may come as early as next week when Spain seeks to
sell bills. Also, European finance chiefs meeting today in
Cyprus have put Spain’s attitude toward aid on the agenda, with
 France  said to be pressing the Iberian nation to request help
from the European Union to contain the euro-area financial
crisis and consolidate recent gains in southern European bonds.  Priced In  Spanish 10-year bond yields have fallen 77 basis points
since Sept. 5, the day before ECB President  Mario Draghi  said
the bank could buy cash-strapped nations’ debt if they seek help
from the region’s government-run rescue mechanism first.  Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond yield was at 5.64 percent as
of 12:07 p.m. London time today, down from 7.17 percent on Aug.
2, when Draghi first said the bank would buy bonds to stem the
crisis, and 6.41 percent on Sept. 5, the day before he fleshed
out the proposal. To hold Spanish 10-year debt, investors demand
395 basis points more than comparable German securities, down
from a euro-era high of 650 basis points on July 25. The spread
earlier touched 394 basis points, the least since April 5  Rajoy has been saying since early August that he needs time
to assess the details of the plan. The Spanish leader, who
denied the nation needed a rescue for its banks two weeks before
asking for one, risks undermining the Spanish bond rally.  “A bailout has largely been priced in, particularly at the
front end,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a fixed-income strategist
at Rabobank International in London. “Yields will come under
pressure” if no bailout is accepted, he said.  ‘No Urgency’  Sliding yields prompted Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre to say on Sept. 12 that there is no “urgency.”  “The important thing is that when whatever assistance that
is needed is requested, that it should be well received in the
markets,” he told reporters in  Madrid .  Rajoy said on the same day that he may not need a second
bailout because the ECB’s pledge already cut borrowing costs.  “I don’t know if it’s necessary for Spain to ask for it,
let’s see how the risk premium evolves in the coming period,”
Rajoy told lawmakers in Parliament in Madrid. He will take the
decision to protect “Spaniards’ interests” after assessing the
conditions, he said.  Rajoy found support for his stance from German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  who said in an interview yesterday
that Spain “would be daft” to ask for a bailout.  “I’m one of those who says we should do everything
possible to convince the markets that this speculation against
Spain is without any basis in reality,” Schaeuble said.  Rajoy’s Stand  Rajoy faces regional elections on Oct. 21 and has been
accused by opposition Socialist leader Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba
of holding off on the decision until after the vote.  The Spanish premier is trying to avoid surrendering more
control over the economy after handing power over the financial
system to the EU in exchange for a 100 billion-euro ($131
billion) bank rescue.  “Rajoy’s reluctance is a risk,” said Werner Fey, a  fund
manager  at Frankfurt Trust Investment GmbH, which oversees 6.5
billion euros of fixed-income assets. “Before the ECB decision
we went to neutral from underweight on Spanish debt. For the
time being we’re staying neutral.”  The Spanish leader said this week he won’t let the EU
dictate spending limits on individual policy areas such as
pensions or health care.  More Pain  Rajoy has already announced more than 100 billion euros of
tax increases and spending cuts. He’s struggling to meet a
budget-deficit target of 6.3 percent of gross domestic product
this year from 8.9 percent in 2011.  Spain is in its second recession in three years. The
country’s 25 percent unemployment rate has left it with  Europe ’s
largest army of unemployed people, raising the specter of more
social unrest.  Spain will likely miss its targets as a deepening recession
undermines tax revenue, analysts Jaime Becerril and Axel J. Finsterbusch at JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote last month.  The EU’s July 10 recommendations for Spain spell more pain.
That document sets out measures in eight specific policy areas
that include raising the  retirement age , tackling struggling
banks and boosting high school graduation rates.  With little on the horizon likely to change the country’s
economic woes, Rajoy has little choice but to take the hand
extended by the ECB, Nobel laureate  Christopher Pissarides , an
economics professor at the  London School  of Economics, said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television on Sept. 12.  Another Crisis  “The situation in Spain is not improving, there is really
absolutely no benefit in waiting,” he said. “There isn’t
anything in the pipeline that will ease the situation.”  As far as the  bond market  is concerned, the choice has
already been made for Spain, said  Patrick Armstrong , a managing
partner at Armstrong Investment Managers LLP in London that
oversees $350 million.  “The main question is if it will do it sometime soon, in a
position of relative market calm, or wait and potentially create
another near-crisis before its request,” he said. “The market
will force it to ask if Spain does not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  