-- Sporting Lisbon Sees UEFA Sanction Hitting Business Deals
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-09-13T09:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/sporting-lisbon-sees-uefa-sanction-hitting-business-deals.html
Sporting Lisbon (SCP) , a money-losing
Portuguese soccer club that’s seeking investors, said its
business negotiations may have been affected after the sport’s
European ruling body  UEFA  froze its prize money.  The club’s bargaining position “may have slightly
diminished,” Sporting said in a statement late yesterday,
without referring to any specific negotiations.  The Nyon, Switzerland-based governing body said Sept. 11
that Sporting is among 23 teams to have  prize money withheld 
after investigators identified “important” overdue payments to
other clubs, employees or tax authorities.  Sporting hasn’t missed any payment deadlines and UEFA
should rectify its comments as soon as possible “to avoid
bigger damage” to its business, Vice President Jose Filipe
Nobre Guedes said in the statement.  Sporting, the former club of  Cristiano Ronaldo , eliminated
Manchester City on the way to reaching the semifinals of last
season’s Europa League. It won the last of its 18 Portuguese
titles in 2002.  The UEFA sanction applies to this season’s prize money.
Sporting is again in the Europa League, with its first group
game against Basel on Sept. 20. UEFA requested the 23 clubs,
which also include  Atletico Madrid , to provide an update on
payments by the end of the month.  Publicly traded Sporting lost money in 12 of the last 13
years, with debt reaching 375 million euros ($484 million), an
internal audit in February showed.  Sporting plans to expand its youth academy abroad and has
made contacts with regards to business partnerships in Angola,
China, the U.S.,  United Arab Emirates  and India, according to an
earnings report published Sept. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  