-- Sun Hung Kai Posts Slower Profit Growth as Home Sales Fall
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-09-13T09:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/sun-hung-kai-underlying-profit-growth-slows-on-fewer-home-sales.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the
Hong Kong developer whose co-chairmen face bribery-related
charges, reported a slowdown in full-year profit growth after
higher down payments and concerns over tougher government
measures curbed apartment sales.  Profit excluding property revaluations rose to HK$21.7
billion ($2.8 billion) for the 12 months ended June 30, compared
with HK$21.5 billion a year earlier, the world’s biggest
developer by market value said in a statement to the city’s
stock exchange today. That compares with the HK$21 billion mean
 estimate  of 17 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Hong Kong developers have sold fewer apartments in the past
year after the government tightened mortgage lending and as they
awaited clarity on the property polices of new Chief Executive
Leung Chun-ying, who had promised to boost land supply ahead of
his swearing in on July 1. Sun Hung Kai, whose billionaire co-
chairmen Thomas and  Raymond Kwok  were arrested in March, is the
worst performer in the Hang Seng Property Index this year.  “Investors will be looking for a stronger home sales
pipeline from them in the next few months,” said Alfred Lau, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Bocom International Holdings Co.
“They will also need rental income and contribution
from  China  to stay strong to support earnings.”  Demand, Supply  Sun Hung Kai shares have advanced 10 percent this year,
lagging the 23 percent gain in the nine-member property gauge.
The shares rose 0.8 percent to HK$107.10 at the close of trading
in Hong Kong today, before earnings were announced.  Hong Kong’s  home prices  have now surpassed their peak in
October 1997, which marked the start of a 70 percent decline to
August 2003, according to an index compiled by Centaline
Property Agency Ltd. They have soared 240 percent since that
trough nine years ago and have risen more than 85 percent since
the beginning of 2009.  Record low mortgage rates, an influx of buyers from other
parts of China and a lack of new supply have been underpinning
the market, prompting the Leung to accelerate land sales and
give preference to local buyers in some projects.  The measures “should help improve the demand and supply
balance of residential properties over the medium to long
term,” Sun Hung Kai said in today’s statement.  Home prices  fell 4 percent in the last three months of 2011,
the biggest quarterly drop since the global credit crisis, after
 Donald Tsang , Leung’s predecessor, increased down-payment
requirements last year and as  China’s economy  began to slow.  Fewer Sales  Sun Hung Kai sold 479 residential units for HK$10.5 billion
in the first half of 2012, behind Sino Land Co. and  Cheung Kong 
(Holdings) Ltd., according to data compiled by Centaline, the
city’s biggest closely held realtor.  For the full financial year, the company sold HK$38.2
billion worth of homes, compared with HK$39.1 billion a year
earlier, according to the statement.  The developer sold 50 percent of the 107 apartments it
offered at its Century Gateway project in the Tuen Mun district
at an average price of HK$11,000 a square foot, the South China
Morning Posted reported yesterday.  The company will begin selling the second phase of The
Wings in Tseung Kwan O and Riva in Yuen Long this year, it said
in today’s statement.  The number of  home transactions  in  Hong Kong  rose 42
percent in August from a month earlier, the biggest increase
since March, according to Land Registry figures.  Rental Income  Profit from property sales fell to HK$13.1 billion last
financial year from HK$16.64 billion a year earlier after a one-
time gain from the sale of a residential project in  Singapore 
wasn’t repeated, the company said today.  Including property revaluation, net income fell to HK$43.8
billion from HK$48.8 billion a year earlier. The company will
pay a final dividend of HK$2.40, unchanged from a year earlier.  Sun Hung Kai booked sales at projects such as the Imperial
Cullinan and Avignon, according to today’s statement. Hong
Kong’s developers begin selling homes while they’re still in
construction and book profits upon completion.  Rental income at the developer, which owns the
International Finance Centre II and the International Commerce
Centre, the city’s two tallest buildings, rose to HK$11 billion
from HK$9.51 billion, Sun Hung Kai said.  October Trial  The company held 46.6 million square feet of land in its
reserves in Hong Kong as of the end of June, Sun Hung Kai said
in today’s statement. Over the last financial year it acquired
5.2 billion square feet in gross floor area to the reserve,
almost doubling the amount added a year earlier, the company
said. It has 83.8 million square feet of land reserves in other
parts of China.  Thomas and Raymond Kwok will appear in court on Oct. 12 to
stand trial on alleged bribery and public misconduct charges
brought by the city’s anti-graft agency.  The brothers and two other men were charged for conspiring
to provide Rafael Hui, the city’s former No. 2 official, with
free use of two apartments and three unsecured loans for
unspecified favors involving Hui’s role as the government’s then
chief secretary, the  Independent Commission Against Corruption 
said in July.  Sun Hung Kai in July promoted two executives to deputy
managing directors to assist the co-chairmen, who are retaining
their roles at the company. The developer also named Adam Kwok,
a son of Thomas, and Edward Kwok, a son of Raymond, as
alternative directors to their fathers.  The developer has been run by Thomas and Raymond Kwok since
the ouster as chairman in 2008 of their elder brother Walter.  The late Kwok Tak Seng and Lee Shau-kee, chairman of
Henderson Land Development Co. and the Hong Kong’s second-
richest man, were among three co-founders of the developer in
1962.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  