-- U.K. House Prices Rise as Sales Rebound From Summer Lull
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-09-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/u-k-house-prices-rise-as-sales-rebound-from-summer-lull.html
U.K. house prices increased for the
first time in three months in August as demand rebounded from a
lull earlier in the summer, Acadametrics Ltd. said.  The average cost of a home in England and  Wales  rose 0.1
percent from July to 226,243 pounds ($364,400), Acadametrics and
 LSL Property Services Plc (LSL)  said in a report published in  London 
today. Prices climbed 2.6 percent from a year earlier.  “Rather than signaling a radical shift in the housing
market, the improvement reflects a mini-resurgence following
more sluggish buyer activity earlier in the summer, affected by
a combination of the Jubilee bank holiday and historically heavy
rainfall,” said Richard Sexton, director of LSL’s e.surv
business. “In reality, obtaining a big-enough mortgage remains
a hurdle for thousands of first-time buyers.”  With the housing market struggling to recover, the  Bank of
England  and the Treasury last month started a program to help
boost the flow of credit, while the government has relaxed
planning rules to help spur building. Construction output
dropped 3.9 percent in the second quarter.  In London, average prices jumped 10.5 percent in July from
a year earlier, Acadametrics said. The increase was led by a 32
percent surge in Kensington and Chelsea as well as gains of 19
percent in Hammersmith and Fulham and 18 percent in Westminster.  Nationally, transactions rose 2.5 percent last month from
July, Acadametrics said. While house sales are at the highest
level this year, they’re still at only 63 percent of the average
in the period 1995-2011.  Acadametrics and LSL combine initial transaction data from
the  Land Registry  and results from other price measures to
produce their housing index. They said their price measure is
showing rising values nationally because, unlike other
companies, it includes cash sales.  “Given that Greater London is the biggest contributor to
rising house prices, and that a significant percentage of these
transactions are for cash, particularly at the top end of the
market, this is a very important factor driving the LSL Acad
index,” they said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  