-- U.K. Gas-Power Plan Undermines Binding Carbon Goal, Adviser Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-09-13T13:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/u-k-gas-power-plan-undermines-binding-carbon-goal-adviser-says.html
A U.K. plan to invest in new gas-
fired power plants over the next 20 years is incompatible with
legally binding carbon targets, the government’s independent
 climate-change  adviser said.  An expansion of gas-fueled power generation without carbon-
capture equipment would breach the Climate Change Act, which
sets caps on U.K. emissions as well as a 2050 target, the
Committee on Climate Change wrote to Energy Secretary  Ed Davey .  Britain is seeking to balance demand for cheaper power
against a goal to lower pollution from fossil fuels. Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has pushed for natural gas to
remain central to U.K. energy supply and in July won Davey’s
support for a review of gas policies later this year aimed at
bolstering investment in the industry.  “The apparently ambivalent position of the government
about whether it is trying to build a low-carbon or a gas-based
power system weakens the signal provided by carbon budgets to
investors,” the panel said in the  letter  today, signed by
committee chairman Lord Deben, among others. The U.K. currently
gets about 30 percent of its power from gas-fired plants.  The committee urged the government, which is overhauling
the  electricity market , to introduce a target to cut the carbon
intensity of power generation to about 50 grams of carbon
dioxide a kilowatt-hour by 2030, from a proposed 450 grams. A
draft power reform bill was published in May with the aim of
attracting investors to build wind farms, nuclear reactors and
power stations fitted with carbon-capture equipment.  Carbon Goal  “We are currently considering a 2030 electricity
decarbonization target but our existing plans are consistent
with significant decarbonization of the power sector,” Davey
said in a response to the letter.  “After 2030 we expect that gas will only be used as
backup, or fitted with carbon capture and storage,” he said. A
mix of technologies including gas is needed to replace Britain’s
fleet of power stations, a fifth of which are slated to close in
the next decade, he said.  Britain is promoting  carbon capture , which siphons off CO2
emissions from power plants and factories and pumps it
underground for permanent storage, with a 1 billion-pound ($1.6
billion) funding competition. The technology is yet to be fully
installed at a power station on a large scale.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  