-- U.K. Prosecutors Explain ‘Public Interest’ Defense for Media
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-09-13T13:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/u-k-prosecutors-explain-public-interest-defense-for-media.html
British prosecutors probing
scandals at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. tabloids received guidelines for
assessing how a “public interest” defense may be used by
journalists charged with bribery and phone hacking.  The guidelines will help prosecutors decide whether to
charge reporters and editors who may cite the defense to justify
illegal payments to public officials or the interception of
mobile-phone voice mail to get stories, the  Crown Prosecution
Service  said today on its website.  Before charges can be filed in cases involving the media,
“prosecutors must be satisfied that there is enough reliable,
credible, and admissible evidence to rebut any suggestion that
the conduct in question was justified as being in the public
interest,”  Keir Starmer , the agency’s director of public
prosecutions, said in a statement.  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of News
Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit, and seven other people were
charged with conspiring to hack phone messages. Similar charges
may be filed over bribery and computer hacking in three related
police probes in which more than 80 people have been arrested.  Judge Brian Leveson, who is leading an inquiry triggered by
the scandals, asked prosecutors to explain how a public-interest
defense may be used when the law that’s been broken doesn’t
include the exception.  “When considering invasions of privacy, regard must be
given to the level of seriousness of the invasion, whether on
the facts there was a reasonable expectation of privacy, and
whether the conduct in question was proportionate,” CPS said.  Prosecutors should consider charges in cases with several
possible public-interest defenses, as long as they’re drawn to
the court’s attention. The most important question for
prosecutors is whether the public interest served by the conduct
in question outweighs any criminal acts, the CPS said.  Conduct that can serve the public interest includes
exposing criminal behavior as well as exposing a “miscarriage
of justice” or a cover-up of illegal actions, the CPS said. It
also covers exposing matters of “important public debate” such
as unethical conduct and “significant incompetence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  