-- U.K. Bank Inspectors of 1783 Found Some Familiar Flaws
-- B y   A n n e   L .   M u r p h y
-- 2012-09-13T14:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/u-k-bank-inspectors-of-1783-found-some-familiar-flaws.html
The recent public outcry
over the behavior of the banking industry has led the
U.K. government to create a Parliamentary Commission on
Banking Standards to investigate the culture of the
industry and report on lessons to be learned.  While they await submissions of evidence, the
commission members might contemplate the outcome of an
18th-century inquiry with similar aims. Its object was
the Bank of  England .  In a country reeling from the loss of the American
colonies, anxiety was rising over management of the
state’s finances and growing indebtedness. Much like
today, the public was intensely angry at supposed
corruption among public officials, financiers and the
directors of large joint-stock companies. In response,
Parliament established a commission to inspect the public
accounts. Around the same time, the state also started
interfering in the affairs of the East India Company.  It was only a matter of time before the Bank of
England, which was still privately owned, came under such
scrutiny. So the bank decided to set its house in order
before Parliament came knocking. From 1783 to 1784, an
appointed Committee of Inspection toured the bank,
observing workplace practices and interviewing staff.
Their findings were recorded in two ledgers still
preserved in the bank’s archives.  Modern readers would find much that sounds familiar.  Incompetence, Drunkenness  Those 18th-century bankers worked long hours, were
paid well and could earn bonuses. They engaged in office
politics, back biting and sniping at colleagues. There
were accusations of incompetence and drunkenness at work.
The inspectors noted that some men were rude to customers
or were too concerned with securing gratuities. Others,
it appeared, were just “not very sharp” or were rather
“old and worn out.”  Security was clearly a problem, too, with gates left
open, drawers left unlocked and ledgers left out on desks
all night. Safes and treasure chests were found to be
insecure or locked with keys that were then tossed in an
open drawer. The committee must have also raised eyebrows
when it noted that brokers and stockjobbers at the bank
felt free to look through ledgers detailing customers’
accounts.  Worse, the inspectors found that the bank’s clerks
who did business at the Exchequer each day walked through
the streets of  London  with more than 100,000 pounds in
bank notes carried in a “small Tin Chest,” and that the
printing plates for the notes were carried through
particularly dangerous streets each day to a printer in
Hatton Garden.  At the root of many of the worst problems that they
found were two of the same failings that so exercise us
today: incompetence and greed. With regard to the first,
the committee observed that senior men had taken their
eyes off the ball. They failed to exercise proper
managerial control, didn’t demand sufficient respect from
their staff and left the bank early each day, entrusting
the most junior clerks with the task of securing the
institution. The inspectors argued that the senior men
should take “a more direct & acknowledged control” so
they could “be held accountable for the conduct of those
immediately under them.”  Powerful Temptations  Equally worrisome was that many of the clerks who
managed the transfers of bank shares and  government
securities  were supplementing their wages by acting as
brokers and jobbers. At the time, the main secondary
market in securities was housed within the bank, making
it simple for the clerks to take advantage of a captive
clientele by offering their own brokerage services. Some
clerks were even found to be in league with professional
brokers and acting to ensure their customers got the best
deals and were first in line when it came to registering
transactions.  The inspectors were “decidedly of opinion that the
practice ... is not only inconvenient & pernicious in
itself, but that it may eventually lead to even fatal
consequences by the powerful temptations it holds out to
Men.”  Although the inspectors found much to complain of,
they admired the efficiency and attention to public
service shown by an organization that managed thousands
of transactions a day with what appears to be a high
degree of accuracy -- and did so with little banking
technology beyond double-entry accounting, quill pens and
balance scales. We are introduced to many men who, like
the chief accountant, John Payne, thought that it was
“undoubtedly his duty to do the business of the Publick
with the Bank.”  The report also expresses absolute confidence in the
value of the bank’s work. Hence the inspectors concluded
their proceedings by contemplating “the immense
importance of the  Bank of England  not only to the  City of
London , in points highly essential to the promotion &
extension of its Commerce, but to the Nation at large, as
the grand Palladium of Public Credit.” They asserted that
they were “thoroughly persuaded that an Object so great
in itself & so interesting to all Ranks of the Community,
must necessarily excite care & solicitude in every
breast.”  One wonders whether the bankers who will appear
before the 2012 Parliamentary Commission on Banking
Standards could still make such an assertion with a good
conscience.  (Anne L. Murphy is a senior lecturer in history at
the University of Hertfordshire. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the author of this post: Anne Murphy at
 a.l.murphy@herts.ac.uk .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 