-- U.S. House Boosts Spending With Approval of Stopgap Budget Plan
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-09-14T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/u-s-house-adopts-stopgap-spending-measure-to-fund-government.html
A stopgap budget measure providing
federal agencies with a 0.6 percent funding increase won House
approval in what will likely be the last major bill to clear
Congress before the Nov. 6 election.  In a victory for Democrats, lawmakers voted 329-91
yesterday to adopt a measure that would fund most programs until
March 27, 2013. The bipartisan  vote  came after Republicans
dropped their demands for big spending cuts included in House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan ’s budget seven months ago.
Republicans called it a tactical retreat.  “A lot more can be done next year after the election, than
can be done right now,” said Representative James Lankford, a
freshman Republican from  Oklahoma . “Six months from now,
hopefully we’ll have a different Senate and a different
president.”  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , the top Democrat on the
Budget Committee, said Republicans “know the public sees them
as obstructionists and, if they were to threaten to shut down
the government, it would boomerang.”  The bill was opposed by 70 Republicans and 21 Democrats.
The measure now goes to the Senate, where party leaders have
said they plan to clear it for President  Barack Obama ’s
signature. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said last night he
would schedule a procedural vote on the measure for Sept. 19.
The bill would fund the government into its new fiscal year,
which begins Oct. 1.  Budget Fights  The legislation, H.J. Res. 117, would end one budget fight
facing Congress while lawmakers delay debate on the knottier
issues of the expiring George W. Bush-era income tax rates and
$110 billion in automatic spending cuts set to begin in January.  The bill provides $19 billion more for the discretionary
portion of the  federal budget  than Ryan had proposed in his
fiscal plan adopted by the House in March. Ryan, the Republican
vice presidential nominee, returned to Washington and voted for
the measure. Asked why Ryan backed the measure, campaign
spokesman  Brendan Buck  said in an e-mail: “While spending
should be lower, Ryan supported this legislation to prevent a
government shutdown.”  It would fund agencies at an annualized rate of $1.047
trillion, excluding emergency spending, which would translate to
a 0.6 percent across-the-board increase for most federal
programs. A few initiatives, including cyber security, wildfire-
suppression efforts, veterans’ disability-benefit processing and
next year’s presidential inauguration would get more.  The legislation also extends the pay freeze for federal
workers, including members of Congress.  Ryan Plan  The Republican-passed budget prompted a months-long
standoff with Democrats, who said the plan amounted to reneging
on an agreement on funding levels for the 2013 fiscal year. None
of the dozen annual spending bills has been signed into law,
with Obama saying he would veto them all unless Republicans
relented on spending levels.  South Carolina RepublicanMick Mulvaney dismissed questions
on why Republicans are now willing to support a budget increase
that includes money to implement the administration’s 2010
health-care overhaul.  “We voted against Obamacare 33 times; if you don’t know we
stand against that, you’re not paying attention,” he said.
“It’s a temporary bill so hopefully the election goes a certain
way so we can fix this.”  Shutting Government  Representative  Allen West , a freshman Republican from
 Florida , said: “What do you want me to do? Do you want me to do
nothing and shut down the government?” California Republican
 John Campbell , who also supported the legislation, said neither
party wanted a spending fight diverting attention from the
presidential contest.  “We want them making the news -- not us -- and I think
that’s true of Republicans and Democrats,” Campbell said.  Not all Republicans were happy with their party’s retreat.
The anti-tax Club for Growth urged Republicans to oppose the
measure, calling it “bad policy simply because it extends big
spending programs.” The bill is “just another omnibus, spend-
as-you-go measure that extends the federal government’s
incoherent fiscal policy,” the  Heritage Foundation  said in an
analysis.  Arizona  Republican Jeff Flake, who opposed the measure,
said “spending levels are still too high, and this bill does
nothing to address that.”  Nondefense programs would receive $490 billion in the
measure, while defense-related ones would get $557 billion. That
latter figure may trigger a second, smaller defense spending
cut, in addition to the much larger one coming in January,
because it exceeds the $546 billion cap on defense spending
established in last year’s budget agreement.  The bill provides an additional $107 billion in emergency
spending, most of which would go to war-related expenses. It
also would provide $6.4 billion for disaster assistance and $483
million to screen Social Security disability beneficiaries to
ensure they meet the program’s criteria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  