-- U.S. Small-Business Owners Say Candidates Don’t Get Their Needs
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-09-13T22:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/u-s-small-business-owners-say-candidates-don-t-get-their-needs.html
In election years, Democrats and
Republicans talk about small businesses as the epitome of the
U.S.’s can-do spirit and the foundation of the nation’s economy,
and President  Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney  have seen no reason
to deviate from that script. But while the two parties profess
to have entrepreneurs’ best interests at heart, flattery is no
sure route to winning their votes.  One reason is that small-business owners are not a
monolithic interest group, Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its Sept. 17 issue. The proprietor of a neighborhood
pizzeria and a small-scale manufacturer don’t have a lot in
common. Even some of the associations that represent small
businesses stand far apart on issues of importance to their
members. Small-business owners do agree on this, though: What’s
good for USA Inc. isn’t necessarily good for America & Sons.
  “There is always a tendency for lawmakers to think that small
businesses are just smaller versions of General Motors, and
they’re not,” said Dan Danner, chief executive officer of the
 National Federation of Independent Business , a right-leaning
lobbying group in  Washington .  Many policies, including those covering taxes, banking,
health care, trade, and the environment, favor big companies and
leave Main Street stores and back-street workshops struggling to
compete, small-business owners and their advocates argue.  “The politicians all say small business is the economic
lifeblood of our country, and then they go and vote against
small business,” said Chris Holman, chairman of the Washington-
based National Small Business Association.  Stacked Deck  Richard Eidlin, director of public policy at the left-
leaning American Sustainable Business Council in Washington,
said he thinks that the deck is stacked against his
organization’s 150,000 members, blaming an infatuation with
deregulation that began under  Ronald Reagan .  “It’s led to a business environment where small companies
are disadvantaged and big businesses have the advantage,” he
said.  The data support claims that small business has been losing
ground. Its share of U.S. nonfarm gross domestic product
generated by private companies fell from more than 48 percent in
2002 to around 44 percent in 2010, according to the latest data
available from the  Small Business Administration .  Home building and other industries with a high
concentration of small businesses are taking longer to recover
than others, said Kathryn Kobe, senior economist at Economic
Consulting Services in Washington.  “What will help them are policies that can get the
foreclosure issue resolved,” she said. “We are seeing the
start of that because the housing sector has stabilized in the
past few months.”  Seeking Certainty  Danner said his 350,000 members want certainty. The
inability to predict what will happen to taxes and the future of
the 2010 health-care overhaul, popularly known as Obamacare,
makes his members nervous, he said.  Kelly Conklin, whose cabinetry business in Bloomfield,  New
Jersey , offers health coverage to its 11 employees, calls the
law “the single most positive and helpful legislation in the
past few years for a small business like mine.”  Now, he says, competitors in nearby  Pennsylvania  will have
to pay for health care, too: “The competitive disadvantage I
have in New Jersey will be leveled.” He would like New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican, to hurry up and create a
health insurance exchange for his state before the law’s 2014
deadline.  Minimum Wage  Small business groups take diverging positions on the
 federal minimum wage , an issue many of their members feel
strongly about. Danner’s group, the NFIB, opposes moving off the
$7.25 floor that has been in place since 2009.  Bob Keener, a spokesman for Business for Shared Prosperity,
a left-leaning Boston-based policy group, said raising the
minimum wage is the No. 1 issue for his 4,000 members, many of
them business owners and executives. He asks why labor costs
shouldn’t go up when other business expenses, such as gasoline,
have. “Increasing the  minimum wage  benefits their businesses
because their customers have more money to spend,” he said.  Government subsidies for big companies are a big concern of
Eidlin’s American Sustainable Business Council. He would like to
see an end to giveaways of such things as broadband spectrum,
which aids large telecommunications companies, and price
guarantees for ethanol producers, which benefit agribusinesses
at the expense of small farmers. “If there’s going to be
corporate welfare, you could throw some of that at the small
corporations,” he said.  Internet Tax  Ending Internet-based businesses’ 20-year moratorium on
charging sales tax is the dream of Tom Campbell, owner of the
Regulator Bookshop in Durham,  North Carolina , which has five
full-time and 15 part-time employees. The exemption threatens
bookstores like his with extinction, he said: “Every smartphone
and laptop gives Amazon a presence in Durham, so they should be
paying  sales tax .”  Bill Batchelder, president of Bemidji Woolen Mills, founded
by his grandfather in Bemidji,  Minnesota , just wants government
to get out of the way. Batchelder, who has 25 employees and was
a delegate to the Republicans’ nominating convention, sells
woolen hunting and winter jackets, with a big market in  Japan .
“There is no subsidy big enough, no tariff large enough, to
make people start buying American clothing versus foreign
clothing if they are going after price,” he said.  High Taxes  Tom Secor, president of Durable Corp., a Norwalk, Ohio,
company that turns recycled tires into floor mats and loading-
dock bumpers, said his biggest problem is high taxes that
effectively favor larger corporations.  “We can’t afford to buy the preferences, and it’s tough
for us to keep track of them,” he said, referring to
congressional favors that have larded the  tax code  with breaks
for industry. “Big business is getting the better end of this
because they have the money to spend.”  Obama and Romney each mentioned small business at least
five times in their convention speeches. They will need to do
much more than that to bring Main Street shops and the Fortune
500 under the same big tent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  