-- U.S. Budget Gap Widens on Spending as Benefit Payment Shifts
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-09-13T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/u-s-budget-gap-widens-on-spending-as-benefit-payment-shifts.html
The U.S. government’s  budget
deficit  widened more than forecast in August, reflecting an
acceleration in spending as some benefit payments were made
earlier because of the Labor Day holiday.  The deficit climbed 42 percent to $190.5 billion from a
$134.1 billion  shortfall  in August 2011, the Treasury Department
said today in  Washington . The gap exceeded the $170 billion
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Through 11 months of this
fiscal year, the deficit was 5.6 percent smaller than the same
period last year.  Moody’s Investors Service said Sept. 11 that it may join
 Standard & Poor’s  in downgrading the U.S.’s credit rating unless
Congress next year reduces the percentage of debt-to-gross-
domestic-product during budget negotiations. Congressional
leaders have said they probably will wait until after the Nov. 6
presidential election to address the George W. Bush-era tax cuts
set to expire Dec. 31 and the looming $1.2 trillion in automatic
spending cuts.  “First S&P, and now Moody’s is threatening to lower the
boom if Congress does not come up with a credible plan to bring
down what the rating agencies think is reckless deficit spending
with no end in sight,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist
at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York , said in an e-
mail before today’s report. “It looks like Congress really has
their work cut out for them.”  CBO Outlook  The  Congressional Budget Office  has said the economy will
probably tip into recession if Congress doesn’t resolve the
impasse by early next year. Moody’s put the rating under review
with a negative outlook in August 2011, when the U.S. pushed
back a decision on spending and raised the debt ceiling after
months of political wrangling.  Treasuries have returned 6 percent since the U.S. was
stripped of its AAA rating by S&P on Aug. 5, 2011, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data as of Sept. 12, while
yields have sunk to all-time lows. The rally in the past year
may reflect investors seeking a “haven” from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and demand for liquid securities, S&P said.  Today’s report showed revenue rose 5.7 percent in August
from the same month a year earlier, to $178.9 billion from
$169.2 billion. Spending jumped 21.8 percent to $369.4 billion
from $303.4 billion. Treasury said payment shifts resulted from
$57 billion in monthly recurring benefit payments being
accelerated into August from September.  Estimates of the August budget gap ranged from $192 billion
to $95 billion in the Bloomberg survey of 23 economists.  Deficit Narrowing  Through 11 months of the fiscal year that began in October
2011, the  budget deficit  narrowed to $1.16 trillion from $1.23
trillion in the same period last year.  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimated this week the
August deficit would be $192 billion. The CBO said in a report
dated Sept. 10 that the deficit was affected by the Labor Day
weekend.  “Consequently, certain payments that are ordinarily made
at the beginning of each month -- including Social Security
benefits -- were shifted from September to August, boosting
spending last month,” the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  