-- U.S. Officials Concerned Over What Follows Arab Spring
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-13T14:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/u-s-officials-concerned-over-what-follows-arab-spring.html
The attacks on U.S. diplomatic
compounds in Egypt and Libya, where Ambassador Chris Stevens and
three other Americans died, have fueled growing concerns about
what will replace long-standing Arab dictatorships that kept
order at the expense of freedom.  The Obama administration supported democratic uprisings,
abandoning decades of support for Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  in the Arab world’s most populous nation and supporting
the rebels who toppled Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi . The U.S.
helped negotiate the ouster of Yemen’s unpopular pro-American
leader, and now is siding with Syrian rebels trying to topple
dictator Bashar al-Assad.  “The structures of state influence are not what they used
to be, so it’s not just American, but all embassies that are at
greater risk,” John Nagl, a research fellow at the U.S. Naval
Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, said in a phone interview
yesterday.  The fatal attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi and the
demonstration at the American Embassy in Cairo, as well as
threats of violent protests elsewhere in the region, “raise
troubling questions about the whole experience of the Arab
awakening and why security has gotten so far out of control,”
said Michele Dunne, director of the Middle East program at the
Atlantic Council, a Washington policy research institute.  The attacks prompted the State Department to reduce embassy
staffing in Tripoli, the Libyan capital, to emergency levels and
reconsider efforts to conduct more proactive diplomacy in the
Muslim world, U.S. diplomats involved in the discussions said
yesterday.  Blinding Diplomats  The U.S. dilemma, said one official, is exemplified by the
events in Benghazi, where the U.S. was preparing to open a new
cultural and education center: The man-in-the-street diplomacy
that’s needed to counter anti-Americanism and Islamic extremism
exposes U.S. diplomats to greater danger. The cautious course,
though, leaves U.S. officials cooped up in diplomatic compounds,
blind to what’s happening in the streets, both officials said,
speaking on condition of anonymity.  The immediate concern, the officials said, is focused on
what may happen on Friday, the Muslim day of prayer, and the
concerns extend from Morocco to Brunei, Indonesia and Malaysia.
Protesters today attempted to storm the U.S. embassy in Yemen’s
capital, and one was reportedly shot dead. In Tunisia, the
birthplace of the so-called Arab Spring uprisings, authorities
yesterday fired tear gas and rubber bullets as a crowd of
several hundred tried to storm the U.S. embassy in the north
African nation’s capital.  Contain Anger  “I don’t see the government in Libya and Egypt being able
to contain this anger; they won’t be able to swim against the
current,”  Mustafa Alani , a regional security analyst with the
Gulf Research Center, said in a telephone interview from Dubai.
“I can see this becoming worse, spreading to other countries
like Pakistan and Afghanistan and other  Muslim countries .”  One country of great concern, one of the officials said
yesterday, is Pakistan, where anti-American sentiments already
are high, fueled in part by U.S. drone attacks and the raid that
killed al-Qaeda leader Osama  bin Laden . A U.S. diplomatic
vehicle was attacked last week in Peshawar, injuring two
American officials.  ‘Walk Away’  The Obama administration has backed political change in the
Arab world. Officials have acknowledged the danger that Western-
style democratic reforms may be lost to the hostile rhetoric of
Islamic fundamentalists; enduring religious, tribal and ethnic
loyalties; and the economic hardships, official corruption and
inequality that fuel popular unrest.  “The worst thing the United States could do right now is
walk away,” Dunne said in an interview. “These transitions are
going to be difficult, and in some cases, like this one, ugly,
but I think the United States needs to stay engaged and help
countries like Libya get on the right track toward effective
democratic governance and security and economic development.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , in remarks paying
tribute to Stevens and his three colleagues, said events don’t
reflect an Arab rejection of American outreach. The attack at
the U.S. consulate in the eastern Libyan city of Benghazi should
be blamed on a “small and savage group -- not the people or
government of Libya,” she said.  Still, the deaths and the pictures of the Cairo embassy
besieged by Islamist protesters chanting in support of bin Laden
and the Benghazi consulate in flames after an attack by an armed
mob highlight the challenges to U.S. interests and diplomacy.  ‘Grave Threat’  “Although people in the region may understand these
attackers are a small minority, many Americans will miss that
nuance, and America’s ability to work” with the new post-
authoritarian governments may be imperiled, said Tom Malinowski,
Washington director for  Human Rights Watch , a New York-based
advocacy group.  Malinowski, a former National Security Council official and
speechwriter under President  Bill Clinton , said while “it’s too
soon to tell” what the effect will be on U.S. policy, the
biggest question is that of violent extremism. He called that
“a disease throughout the region, and a grave, grave threat to
everything that brave people in Egypt and Libya and Syria have
been struggling to achieve in the last two years.”  With dictators gone, said  Richard Murphy , who served as
U.S. ambassador to Syria and  Saudi Arabia , “the fanatics among
them feel it’s their day to make a show.”  Both Libyan and Egyptian leaders decried the anti-American
actions, which were prompted at least in part by a film made in
the U.S. that protesters said insults the Islamic Prophet
Muhammad.  ‘Regrettable Event’  “What happened at the American Embassy in Cairo is a
regrettable event that is rejected by all Egyptians and that
cannot be justified, especially if we take into consideration
that those who produced this low film have no relation to the
nation or the official stand of the American government,”
Egyptian Prime Minister Hisham Qandil said.  Elliot Abrams, a senior fellow for Middle Eastern studies
at the  Council on Foreign Relations , said in a phone interview
that the Egyptian failure to safeguard the embassy “should
affect U.S.-Egyptian relations. There’s no excuse to their
failure to provide protection.”  The  Muslim Brotherhood , which won Egypt’s presidency in
June, and the more secular leadership in Libya face the
challenge of rebuilding shattered economies and appeasing a
populace increasingly impatient with the pace of change.  Economic Troubles  In Libya, the public is questioning U.S. ties, even though
American-led air power helped insurgents overthrow Qaddafi. In
Egypt, anti-Americanism persists even as the military has
received more than $1 billion a year in U.S. aid since 1979 in
return for maintaining a peace treaty with Israel.  Instability may jeopardize plans by both countries to
attract more foreign investment. Increased security at U.S.
embassies may push militants to turn their attention to
corporate targets in the Middle East and North Africa, Firas Abi
Ali, deputy head of forecasting at Exclusive Analysis Ltd., a
London-based company that tracks risks to multinational
businesses, said in an e-mail.  Egypt is struggling to recover from last year’s revolt that
ended Mubarak’s three-decade reign. The country’s budget deficit
widened to the highest in at least five years, missing the
government’s target, as unrest and labor strikes cut  tax revenue 
and spurred wage increases.  Mursi Invitation  Egypt restarted loan talks with the  International Monetary
Fund  after the election of President Mohamed Mursi in June and
secured aid and investment pledges from the U.S., as well as
China and Qatar. The U.S. said Sept. 4 that it will proceed with
a plan announced last year to provide Egypt with a $1 billion
aid package, including debt relief.  President  Barack Obama  invited Mursi to Washington in
December for talks, the state-run Middle East New Agency
reported Sept. 8.  During a visit to Brussels today, Mursi condemned the
attack on the American consulate in Benghazi and said his
government was able to protect foreign embassies on Egyptian
soil. In Cairo, protesters today set fire to two police vehicles
as authorities tried to keep them away from the U.S. embassy. At
least 16 people were injured and 24 arrested, government
officials said.  The U.S. government has provided more than $200 million in
assistance to Libya since the start of the uprising in 2011,
including $89 million in humanitarian assistance and $40 million
for weapons abatement, according to a Aug. 9 report by the
 Congressional Research Service .  Libya Oil  Libya’s oil  production  has returned to pre-revolution
levels of about 1.56 million barrels a day, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The government also has identified as
much as $170 billion in assets that had been under Qaddafi’s
control, according to the CRS report.  In Congress, Republican Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky said
that continued aid to Libya should be contingent on its
cooperation in bringing to justice the people behind the attack
on Stevens and the consulate.  U.S. Republican Senators  John McCain  of Arizona and  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina and Independent  Joe Lieberman  of
Connecticut said the U.S. shouldn’t “give in to the temptation
to believe that our support for the democratic aspirations of
people in Libya, Egypt, and elsewhere in the broader Middle East
is naive or mistaken.”  Malinowski said the vast majority of Libyans and Egyptians,
while “outraged by what they see as attacks on their religion,
want nothing to do with killing of American diplomats” and are
“profoundly ashamed by what has happened.”  ‘Take Control’  That regret is “not enough,” he said. The Libyan
government must “take control of their country from the small
armed groups who run the country.”  Referring to the outpouring of concern and condemnation by
members of Congress, Dunne said it was likely the U.S. would be
“more cautious” now in its efforts to engage with the newly
democratizing North African nations. Staying out, she said,
“would actually be a disaster.”  Anthony Cordesman , an analyst at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington, said the U.S. “must
not lose sight of our enduring strategic interests.”  “Libya and Egypt are critical nations in the upheavals in
the Arab and Islamic world,” he said in a statement. “At the
same time, both are years away from stability and forging the
new structure of government, social order, and economics
necessary to deal with the underlying problems that caused
political change in each country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  