-- U.S. Deferred Prosecutions Boost Compliance, Breuer Says
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-09-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/u-s-deferred-prosecutions-boost-compliance-breuer-says.html
The chief of the U.S.  Justice
Department ’s criminal division, Lanny Breuer, defended the
increased use of deferred-prosecution agreements, saying they
had “a transformative effect on particular companies and, more
generally, on corporate culture across the globe.”  The agreements have “become a mainstay of white-collar
criminal  law enforcement ,” Breuer, 54, said in a speech before
the New York City Bar Association yesterday, according to a copy
of his prepared remarks. “The result has been, unequivocally,
far greater accountability for corporate wrongdoing -- and a sea
change in corporate compliance efforts.”  Before deferred prosecution emerged as a useful tool in the
1990s, “prosecutors faced a stark choice when they encountered
a corporation that had engaged in misconduct -- either indict,
or walk away,” said Breuer, who was co-chairman of the white-
collar defense and investigations practice group at Covington &
Burling LLP before joining the Justice Department.  Avoiding indictment doesn’t mean a company escapes
accountability, he said. Companies also must prove they are
“serious about compliance,” if they want to avoid pleading
guilty or having charges brought.  The agreements give prosecutors flexibility when
differentiating between the actions of a “rogue employee and a
rotten corporation,” he said.  Morgan Stanley  Breuer cited the case of Garth Peterson, a former managing
director at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  who pleaded guilty to conspiring to
evade the bank’s internal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
controls, and was sentenced to prison last month. The FCPA is a
U.S. anti-bribery statute.  The Justice Department decided against charging the
company, because New York-based Morgan Stanley cooperated with
the investigation and maintained a robust compliance program,
Breuer said.  “That is smart, and responsible enforcement,” he said.  Siemens AG (SIE) , on the other hand, was an example of a company
“rife with corruption from top to bottom,” Breuer said.  Because of the widespread nature of the wrongdoing at the
Munich-based manufacturer, including at the managerial level,
the Justice Department required Siemens and three of its
subsidiaries to plead guilty to FCPA-related charges and pay
$450 million in fines in the U.S., and more than $1 billion on
top of that in civil penalties and fines in  Germany .  Breuer said the decision of whether to indict a
corporation, defer prosecution or decline to prosecute
altogether isn’t one he takes lightly.  In large multinationals, thousands of jobs may be at stake,
or even the health of an industry or the markets, he said  “When the only tool we had to use in cases of corporate
misconduct was a criminal indictment, prosecutors sometimes had
to use a sledgehammer to crack a nut,” according to Breuer.  More often, they just walked away, he said.  “In the world we live in now, though, prosecutors have
much greater ability to hold companies accountable for
misconduct than we used to -- and the result has been a
transformation in the culture of corporate compliance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Farrell in  New York  at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  