-- U.S. Must Respect Overseas Swaps Rules, CFTC’s Wetjen Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-09-13T16:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/u-s-must-respect-overseas-swaps-regulations-cftc-s-wetjen-says.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission , facing concerns from European and Asian regulators
about the scope of new swaps rules, should rely on overseas
authorities when possible, Commissioner Mark P. Wetjen said.  “In light of the commission’s limited resources, efficient
regulation through deference to comparable regulation just makes
sense,” Wetjen, one of three Democrats on the five-member CFTC,
said today in remarks prepared for delivery at an  International
Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc.   conference  in New York.  The CFTC’s proposal for the international reach of its
Dodd-Frank Act rules needs more clarity, and it is “critically
important” that the agency rely on a process of letting firms
comply with new rules by substituting adherence to regulations
enacted abroad, he said.  Along with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the CFTC
has been crafting swaps market rules imposed by Dodd-Frank after
unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The
rules’ scope has prompted opposition from overseas regulators
and companies such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  urged support for a June
proposal, citing the need to protect taxpayers from rescuing
companies whose overseas trades lead to their downfall.  “During a default or crisis, the risk that builds up
offshore inevitably comes crashing back onto U.S. shores, he
said June 29 when the proposal was published for public comment.  The collapse of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , which
booked  credit derivatives  in Europe, and more recent losses by
London traders at JPMorgan’s chief investment office show the
need to close potential loopholes in Dodd-Frank, Gensler said.  ‘Substituted Compliance’  The CFTC’s interpretive guidance allowed for so-called
substituted compliance for branches, subsidiaries and other
overseas affiliates of U.S. banks when foreign jurisdictions
have comparable rules.  ‘‘Permitting substituted compliance is not tantamount to
abdicating the commission’s responsibilities,” Wetjen said in
his prepared remarks for the ISDA conference. “Should a
comparability analysis reveal a gap in another jurisdiction’s
regulations that poses material risk to our markets, our
financial institutions, or our economy, the commission reserves
the right to apply Dodd-Frank to swap activities abroad” that
have a direct and significant effect on the U.S., he said.  Insufficient Clarity  The CFTC’s June proposal failed to sufficiently clarify the
reach of the rules and could lead to conflicts, according to
letters submitted to the agency by overseas regulators. The
letters were sent by the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority,
European Commission, European Securities and Markets Authority,
 Financial Services Agency  in  Japan , the  Bank of Japan , Bank of
France and  Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority .  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority,  Monetary Authority of
Singapore  and the Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios, Brazil’s
national securities regulator also submitted letters.  Rules defining U.S. entities in the trades are overly broad
and could lead to regulatory overlaps, officials with the
European Commission and the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority
said in letters dated Aug. 24.  “This will lead to duplication of laws and to potentially
irreconcilable conflicts of laws for market operators,” said
 Jonathan Faull , the European Commission’s director general for
financial services. “EU and U.S. firms could face permanent
legal uncertainty if this issue is not resolved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  