-- UBS Sees China Share Sales Decreasing Further as Economy Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-13T00:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/ubs-sees-china-share-sales-decreasing-further-as-economy-slows.html
The pace of share sales in China
will slow as an economic deceleration damps companies’ efforts
to expand, said David Li, head of  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s operations in the
country.  Share sales in the world’s second-largest economy have
dropped to 119.5 billion  yuan  ($19 billion) so far this year,
compared with 251.9 billion yuan in the same period of 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Activity will slow because some companies may need to
reduce the scale of their expansion given slower economic
growth,” Li said in an interview yesterday in Tianjin, China,
where he is attending the  World Economic Forum . Average deal
size is also decreasing because most large companies that plan
to hold initial public offerings have already done so, he said.  Two interest-rate cuts this year, three reductions in
banks’ reserve requirements since November and accelerated
approvals for investment projects haven’t been enough to reverse
a slowdown in the economy, which decelerated for a sixth
straight quarter in the three months ended June 30. Output grew
7.6 percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace since 2009.  UBS is constantly “filling up” its team in  China , where
finding talent is still a challenge, Li said.  Switzerland ’s
largest lender got more than 13 percent of revenue from the
Asia-Pacific region last year. The Zurich-based bank  employed 
about 7,600 people in the region as of June 30, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Joint Venture  UBS gained access to underwriting, trading and advisory
businesses in China in 2006 when it bought a 20 percent stake
and management control of  UBS Securities Co.  The unit is a
venture with  Beijing Guoxiang Property Management Co. , which
owns 33 percent. Central Huijin Investment Ltd., a unit of
sovereign wealth fund China Investment Corp., Guodian Capital
Holding Co. and COFCO Corp. each own 14 percent.  UBS is the top-ranked underwriter of overseas first-time
share sales by Chinese companies this year, having handled four
offerings, all in  Hong Kong , for a combined $318 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Such deals this year
total $2.12 billion and fell 67 percent to $10.9 billion in 2011
from a year earlier, the data show.  Cross-border acquisitions may increase as Chinese companies
grow, Li said.  “When companies grow to a certain stage, strategically
they need to build their distribution channels or brands, they
can do so via” acquisitions, he said. “And many companies
actually prefer cross-border deals” to acquire assets that
aren’t available at home.  UBS Securities employs more than 400 people and posted
revenue of 959 million yuan ($151 million) in 2011 compared with
880 million yuan a year earlier, according to its  annual report .
Net income fell 15 percent last year to 46.95 million yuan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  