-- Ludgate Targets Recycling, Water in $300 Million Resources Fund
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-09-13T15:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/ludgate-targets-recycling-water-in-300-million-resources-fund.html
Ludgate Investments Ltd., a London-
based private equity investor, is seeking to raise as much as
$300 million to finance waste-recycling and water-treatment
businesses through a second resource-efficiency fund.  “The value proposition is resource scarcity and the fact
that wastes have now become commodities, providing strong
returns,” Chief Executive Officer Gijs Voskamp said in an
interview in  London . “There is no other way than becoming more
efficient with resources.”  Private equity investors are looking to benefit from the
conflicting challenges of rising demand for resources and
environmental protection. The world’s 7 billion people need to
secure more water, more energy and more food, while curtailing
the effect of greater consumption on their surroundings.  Ludgate plans to raise $200 million to $300 million tapping
new and existing investors, Voskamp said. The company is
studying a German water-management business and will look at
biogas power generation and plastics recycling among its planned
investments in the U.K. and elsewhere in  Europe .  The company’s first Ludgate Environmental Fund listed on
London’s Alternative Investment Market in 2007 and raised more
than $100 million. The fund is more than 90 percent invested in
companies including Rapid Action Packaging Ltd., whose clients
include McDonald’s Corp. and Starbucks Corp., and Tamar Energy
Ltd., which produces energy from organic waste matter.  “The fund has so far returned some 43 percent of the money
invested back to the fund,” Voskamp said. “This is an industry
that makes money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  