-- Ukraine Targets Port Concessions, Rail Overhaul, Deputy PM Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-09-13T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/ukraine-targets-port-concessions-rail-overhaul-deputy-pm-says.html
Ukraine will offer concessions to
help revamp its Black Sea ports and will restructure passenger
rail services that contribute to $1 billion of annual losses for
the industry, according to the country’s deputy prime minister.  Borys Kolesnikov, who’s also infrastructure minister, met
with executives from companies including  Royal Caribbean Cruises
Ltd. (RCL)  in the U.S. this week to discuss the port concessions,
which may be allocated through tenders during the next two
years. The plan will allow improvement work to be carried out
while preserving state control, he said in an interview.  “We discussed concessions for passenger transportation
with Royal Caribbean,” Kolesnikov said Sept. 12 in Washington.
“They’re interested in ports such as Yalta, Sevastopol and
Odessa so we’re at the beginning of that road.”  Ukraine is seeking foreign investors to help overhaul
Soviet-era infrastructure and boost economic growth. Gross
domestic product in the former Soviet nation advanced 3 percent
from a year earlier in the second quarter as Ukraine co-hosted
the European soccer championships with  Poland .  Ukraine will announce in February or March a restructuring
plan for its passenger rail industry, where 98 percent of
rolling stock was bought during Soviet times, according to
Kolesnikov.  “Subsidies should only be given to those who really need
them,” he said.  New Wagons  About 45 percent of Ukraine’s cargo rolling stock has been
sold to private investors, while the state retains control over
the train lines and locomotives, Kolesnikov said.  “We attract investors who buy new rolling stock and pay
the railroad for use of locomotives and mainlines,” he said.
“We’re planning to renew 100 percent of the rolling stock in
the next five years.”  Kolesnikov said his trip includes meetings with U.S.
Transportation Secretary Ray H LaHood, officials from the port
of Miami and federal agencies with responsibility for railroads.  Aside from the U.S., Ukraine is interested in Chinese
financing for infrastructure projects after agreeing on as much
as $9 billion in currency-swap and loan deals from the Asian
nation since June, according to the deputy premier.  “As far as infrastructure projects are concerned, the
answer is definitely yes, Kolesnikov said. ‘‘It depends whether
we’re free to use this money or we have to choose certain
contractors or have other obligations.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  