-- Congress Admits: Yes, We Were Reckless
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-13T22:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/uncontested-spending-bill-shows-debt-ceiling-sham-view.html
Without muss or fuss, Congress just
voted overwhelmingly to keep the federal spigot open for six
more months. There were no shouting matches, no threats of a
government shutdown, no hostage-takings. Even some Tea Party
lawmakers approved the $1.047 trillion measure.  Contrast the smooth legislative action with the lunacy of
last year’s debt-ceiling debate, when the U.S. came within days
of defaulting on its IOUs.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the
government’s credit rating. The recovery went into reverse as
consumers delayed purchases and businesses hunkered down.  Much as we dislike recalling that madness, it’s worth
looking back if only because it now seems so manufactured -- or
worse, economically reckless. If last summer’s fight was
necessary to save the country from fiscal wrack and ruin, why is
this fall’s continuing resolution, as the measure is called, not
a threat to Western civilization? It even adds another $8
billion to the deficit and exceeds the House Republicans’ budget
blueprint by $19 billion.  We understand that many lawmakers, in trouble back home and
anxious to return to their campaigns, are concerned that a
government shutdown would invite an anti-incumbency rout. We
also accept that Republicans may be timing their next fiscal
showdown for after the election, in case voters turn out
President  Barack Obama  and turn over Senate control to their
party. But those are political, not economic, calculations.  Principled Response  A year ago, Republicans cast the debt-ceiling fight as a
principled economic response to unsustainable borrowing and the
only way to avoid a Greek-like comeuppance at the hands of the
 bond market . In offering his budget in March, Representative
 Paul Ryan , now the party’s vice-presidential nominee, said
government debt “continues to rise at a frightening pace,
raising fears that a similar crisis may happen here.”  So can we assume that Republicans have now fixed the
country’s debt problem? Not at all. In many ways, they did the
opposite.  The debt-ceiling drama barely moved the long-term debt
trajectory. Instead, it left the country standing at the edge of
a fiscal cliff, at the bottom of which lies another recession.
It also raised doubts about whether Congress and the White House
can govern, and led the rest of the world to question the sanity
of the U.S.  As Bloomberg View columnists Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  wrote in May, all the  economic data  “tell us that a
debt-ceiling standoff is an act of economic sabotage.” In July,
the Government Accountability Office even concluded that last
year’s delays in raising the ceiling increased Treasury’s
borrowing costs by $1.3 billion.  The debt-limit fight may also prove to be a Republican own-
goal. The outcome of last summer’s debate was an agreement to
make deep cuts in defense spending as of January. And with the
Bush tax cuts expiring at the same time, the combination is
powerful leverage in the Democrats’ favor, leaving Republicans
in a shaky negotiating stance.  When a trillion-dollar spending bill flies through
Congress, it raises a simple question: Why now and not then?
It’s a question voters would do well to ask in the months ahead.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  tax spat in France  and on
 Egypt ’s dance around the  U.S. embassy breach ;  Jonathan Alter  on
Romney’s  “No Apology” foreign policy ;  Stephen Carter  on the need
for politics to  stop at the water’s edge ;  Noah Feldman  on
 China’s invisible heir apparent ;  Ezra Klein  on a  carbon-tax
fantasy ; Willie Pesek on  China’s missing No. 2  man;  Jonathan
Weil  on banks that admit their  balance sheets  are awful;  Alex
Marshall  on why  capitalism and government  are friends after all.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 