-- Unions Flexing Muscles in Australia Seen Squeezing Builders
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-09-13T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/unions-flexing-muscles-in-australia-seen-squeezing-builders.html
Labor disputes are on the rise at
Australian construction companies such as  Grocon Pty  and  Lend
Lease Group (LLC) ’s Abigroup, putting added financial strain on an
industry already struggling with cuts in bank lending.  A standoff over union representation cost Melbourne-based
Grocon as much as A$7 million ($7.3 million) and 16 days of
interrupted work, according to Australia’s biggest closely held
builder. Workers at a Brisbane building project run by a unit of
 Lend Lease , the nation’s biggest developer, have been on strike
since Aug. 6.  The Labor government replaced the building industry
watchdog in June with a body with less power to force employees
back to work and smaller penalties for union breaches. Working
 days lost  across Australia due to industrial activity almost
tripled to 101,700 in the quarter ended June 30 from the
previous three months, the highest since the statistics bureau
began releasing the data in March 2008. Days lost in the
 construction industry  rose to 9,000 from 6,000.  “For the current quarter, these numbers will be even
higher,” said  Stephen Walters , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief
economist in Australia. “It’ll undermine investor confidence.
If you’re going to invest many hundreds of millions of dollars,
you want more certainty about projects.”  Australian banks have cut outstanding lending to commercial
property by 15 percent since its 2009 peak, the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia said in its March  Financial Stability Review . Driving
the decline is an increase in non-performing loans, the exit of
some foreign-owned lenders and a lack of appetite by local banks
to take on more risk, the RBA said in a  statement  in May.  Soured Loans  Impaired commercial property loans account for A$9 billion,
or 45 percent of all non-performing business loans.  The value of  building work  done fell a seasonally adjusted
5.2 percent to A$18.5 billion in the quarter ended June 30 from
a year earlier, according to the statistics bureau.  Listed developers including  Stockland (SGP)  and  Devine Ltd. (DVN) , and
building-materials companies  Boral Ltd. (BLD)  and  CSR Ltd. (CSR)  cited
weakness in the construction and property industries for subdued
results in the latest reporting season.  Devine reported a loss in the latest earnings period, while
CSR’s and Boral’s building products divisions saw income
decrease. Stockland forecast a drop in fiscal 2013 earnings.  Earnings Weakness  Sydney-based CSR’s  share price  has plunged 27 percent this
year, while Devine, headquartered in Springwood, Queensland, has
seen its shares  slump  13 percent this year. Boral, based in
Sydney, has dropped 2.5 percent, while Stockland, which also
owns and manages retail and office properties and retirement
villages, has risen 4.1 percent. That compares with a 7 percent
gain in the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)  index.  The rise in labor disputes “has broader ramifications for
the construction industry around Australia, representing a major
industrial and legal risk for investors, and tender prices will
go up to cover the risk,” said Wilhelm Harnisch, chief
executive officer of the Canberra-based  Master Builders
Association , which represents about 33,000 companies across
Australia.  If disruptions escalate or spread or result in significant
union wins, “we may revisit our appetite,” said  John White ,
who helps oversee $3 billion as Melbourne-based managing
director for Asia-Pacific public real estate securities at
investment firm Heitman.  The industry contributes A$102 billion to Australia’s gross
domestic product, accounting for almost  8 percent  of the
economy.  Legislation Change  The Labor government’s Fair Work Building and Construction
commission on June 1 replaced the Australian Building and
Construction Commission, which, established by the then
coalition government in 2005, axed some worker safeguards and
made it easier for employers to fire people.  Following the  Labor party ’s election win in 2007, then-
Employment Minister -- and current Prime Minister --  Julia
Gillard  overturned that legislation, giving unions more power to
negotiate wage deals and widening the issues they could seek to
address.  “To point the blame at the Fair Work Building and
Construction is simply reckless,” said  Bill Shorten , the
federal minister for employment and workplace relations, in an
e-mailed response to questions.  ‘Militant’ Employers  “It is lazy and scurrilous to suggest that a small number
of disputes in such a large industry are related to the
abolition of the ABCC,” Dave Oliver, secretary of the
Australian Council of Trade Unions, the representative body for
unions, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “The real
cause has been a decision by employers to take a more militant
approach.”  The construction industry is Australia’s third-biggest
employer, after health care and social assistance and the retail
industry. It  employed  993,200 people as of May 30, a 5.5 percent
drop from a year earlier.  Construction wages  excluding bonuses rose 4.1 percent in
the year ended June 30 and climbed 11 percent since the 2009
fiscal year, according to statistics bureau data.  The Grocon dispute began on Aug. 21 when about 1,000
representatives of the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy
Union gathered at the A$1.2 billion Myer Emporium building site
in  Melbourne . They were seeking the right to display union logos
and posters and have union safety representatives on building
projects.  It spread to three other sites around the city, despite
court rulings that they were unlawful. The union ended the
action on Sept. 6 and the two sides are now in talks, with the
union laying out its concerns this week, Grocon Chief Executive
Officer Daniel Grollo told reporters in Melbourne on Sept. 7.  Seeking Costs  Grocon is seeking to recoup the costs incurred through
court action, said Grollo, grandson of Luigi Grollo, who founded
the company more than 50 years ago.  At  Abigroup ’s A$1.4 billion Queensland Children’s Hospital
project, about 600 workers have been on strike since Aug. 6 over
issues including the use of non-union agreements and seeking the
same rates of pay for all workers employed by subcontractors
performing similar jobs.  The  dispute began  when one of the subcontractors, which had
underbid its rivals to get the job, failed, according to the
Brisbane Times newspaper. Fair Work  Australia , the national
workforce tribunal, and the federal Magistrates Court have
ordered strikers to return to work and refrain from union
action, Abigroup’s Sydney-based spokesman Joel Annett said.  Conflict Costs  The conflict has cost the company more than A$6 million,
the Australian Financial Review reported on Sept. 7, citing
Abigroup. Annett declined to confirm the cost.  FWBC has been investigating the Grocon and Queensland
Children’s Hospital disputes and continues to prosecute and
obtain penalties against those who break industrial law in
Australia’s building and construction sector, Shorten said.  CFMEU spokeswoman Jeana Vithoulkas didn’t respond to a
request for comment. Peter Tighe and Allen Hicks, spokesmen for
the Communications, Electrical, Plumbing Union, which is
involved in the dispute at the Abigroup site in Brisbane,
declined to comment.  The union disputes “are something that’s not needed at
this point, where we are in the economic cycle, and where we are
in terms of getting the property industry, development industry,
moving along,” said Winston Sammut, Sydney-based managing
director of Maxim Asset Management. “We don’t need the
uncertainty hanging over us at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  