-- Vestas Said to Weigh Share Offer If Mitsubishi Plan Fails
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-09-13T15:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/vestas-said-to-weigh-share-offer-if-mitsubishi-plan-fails.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the
world’s largest wind turbine maker, is considering selling
shares to existing investors if talks on a strategic cooperation
with  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  fail, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  A rights offering may raise about 500 million euros ($646
million) for the Aarhus, Denmark-based company, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the deliberations are
private. A decision to sell shares is one of the options being
considered and will depend on the outcome of negotiations with
Mitsubishi, the people said. Jens Velling, a spokesman for
Vestas, declined to comment.  Vestas, which has been hurt by higher-than-expected costs
to develop its V112 turbine and lower government subsidies for
clean energy, said in July that its banks deferred testing
financial covenants.  This enabled the company to draw on credit lines as its
 cash flow  deteriorated. The company has credit lines totaling
1.3 billion euros with banks including Commerzbank AG,  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) , Nordea Bank AB,  SEB AB (SEBA) ,  DNB ASA (DNB)  and HSBC Holdings Plc.  “If they raise equity, they should do a big one in order
to get the balance sheet concerns out of the way,” Andreas Willi, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co said in a phone
interview. “If they deliver on their free cash flow promise of
1 billion euros for the fourth quarter, then a 500 million
rights issue may be enough.”  ‘Strategic Cooperation’  On Aug. 27, Vestas said it was in talks with Mitsubishi
Heavy on a possible “strategic cooperation,” without
elaborating. Patrik Setterberg, an analyst at Nordea, said a
collaboration on offshore  wind turbines  was probably a subject
of discussions, with other possibilities including Mitsubishi
taking a minority stake in Vestas, or creating a joint venture
with the Danish company.  Vestas shares fell 13.4 percent today, the biggest one-day
decline in seven months. The shares rose 38 percent between Aug.
27 and Sept. 10, before they dropped by about 26 percent in the
past three days.  Martin Prozesky, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
said in a note yesterday that a minority strategic investment
from a company such as Mitsubishi was unlikely.  Given investment protection issues, restructuring
requirements and weak competition for Vestas assets, “we do not
see the case for a minority stake purchase,” he wrote in the
note to clients yesterday.  Vestas announced two rounds of job cuts this year totaling
more than 3,700 employees, or a sixth of its workforce. The
turbinemaker is in the middle of a restructuring program that
seeks to lower fixed costs by more than 250 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  