-- Vodafone, Telefonica Miss Out on Fast Version of IPhone 5
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-09-13T12:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/vodafone-telefonica-miss-out-on-fast-version-of-iphone-5.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Telefonica
SA (TEF)  will be excluded from offering the fastest  Internet access  to
users of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5 in the U.K. and Germany, handing
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  the chance to win over customers.  The iPhone 5, unveiled yesterday, will  connect  to fourth-
generation wireless networks in Europe that run on a 1,800 MHz
band. Deutsche Telekom is currently rolling out such a network
in German cities, while its British venture with  France Telecom
SA (FTE) , called EE, plans to deploy the service to more than a third
of the U.K. population by the end of the year.  Other European operators, including Vodafone, Telefonica’s
O2 business and Vivendi SA’s SFR unit, will only be able to
offer the iPhone 5 on the current slower 3G network. The device
is predicted by analysts to become the fastest selling
technology gadget in history. Vodafone lost its top spot in the
U.K. to O2 after failing to win the exclusive rights to the
first iPhone which was unveiled in 2007.  “Having the iPhone with LTE will give an enormous push in
sales and market share to EE and Deutsche Telekom,” said
Alexandre Iatrides, an analyst at Oddo & Cie. in Paris.
“Customers want LTE on their iPhones and they will go to the
operators that have it. EE and Deutsche Telekom should make the
most of this opportunity before a new version of the iPhone may
endanger their competitive advantage.”  ‘Frankly Shocked’  The new networks, based on long-term evolution technology,
allow users to watch videos, stream music or perform other data-
intensive tasks at a faster speed. EE, the largest mobile-phone
operator in the U.K., said this week that the new service is
five times faster than is currently available.  Deutsche Telekom rose 0.3 percent to 9.74 euros in
 Frankfurt  as of 2:12 p.m. while Vodafone gained 1.6 percent to
176.70 pence in  London , Telefoncia dropped 0.9 percent to 11.32
euros in  Madrid  and  France Telecom  fell 1.8 percent to 10.59
euros in Paris.    Vodafone has opposed EE’s move to start 4G services in the
U.K. ahead of an upcoming auction of frequencies, saying it was
“frankly shocked” by local regulator Ofcom’s approval of the
service. The decision created a “competitive distortion,”
Vodafone said in August.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  took the stage in
San Francisco yesterday to tout iPhone 5, which boasts a bigger
screen and has a chip that handles tasks more quickly than past
versions. Apple is betting that the device is loaded with enough
features to set it apart in a market swiftly crowding with
phones by Nokia Oyj, Microsoft Corp. and Samsung Electronics Co.  Head Start  In Germany, Vodafone and O2 offer devices from Samsung, LG
Electronics Inc. and HTC Corp. that run on their local 4G
networks.  Apple’s decision to restrict the compatibility of the
iPhone 5 with certain European LTE networks allows Deutsche
Telekom to get a head start in the battle for customers that
want faster internet access, just as Germany’s former state
monopoly begins to deploy 4G services in cities after starting
in rural areas.  Carl Howe , an analyst at Boston-based  Yankee Group , is
predicting that Apple will sell more than 10 million of the new
handset by month’s end, surpassing the record set last year by
the predecessor device, the iPhone 4S.  Getting Lucky  Apple doesn’t prefer one operator over another, said  Markus
Goebel , a spokesman for O2 Germany in Munich. “Apple wants to
maximize LTE reach for its iPhone and Deutsche Telekom got lucky
that the 1,800 MHz frequency is also used by operators in
Asia,” he said.  O2 and Vodafone will still offer the iPhone 5 on their
current 3G networks, according to Goebel and Vodafone Germany
spokesman Kuzey Esener.  Vodafone’s Italian unit, which is deploying equipment
needed for a faster network on its existing airwaves, will be
able to offer 4G services “quite quickly,” Morgan Stanley
analysts including Nick Delfas said today in a note. A Vodafone
spokesman declined to comment.  The iPhone 5 will be available for orders on Sept. 14 and
lands on store shelves Sept. 21 in the U.S., Australia, Canada,
France, Germany,  Hong Kong , Japan, Singapore and the U.K. It
goes on sale in another 22 countries on Sept. 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  