-- Vulcan Holders Urge Martin to Renew Takeover Offer as Ban Ends
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-09-13T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/vulcan-holders-urge-martin-to-renew-takeover-offer-as-ban-ends.html
Martin Marietta  Materials Inc.
should renew its bid for  Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC) , the biggest U.S.
gravel producer, as a judge’s prohibition against a deal expires
this week, two Vulcan shareholders said.  Loomis Sayles & Co. would welcome a new attempt, said
Arthur Barry, a  fund manager . The Ireland family, one of
Vulcan’s founders and collective holder of about 1.5 million
shares, also favors another bid, said Guy Mitchell, a family
member and Vulcan investor.  Martin Marietta’s push to create the world’s largest
supplier of gravel and sand, with an offer initially valued at
$4.7 billion, fell apart in May. Delaware Chancery Court Judge
Leo Strine ruled that Raleigh, North Carolina-based Martin
Marietta violated an earlier agreement with Vulcan and said that
the company couldn’t proceed for four months.  “If Vulcan and Martin combine on a stock-to-stock deal,
this would be a U.S. champion in aggregates,” Barry said in a
telephone interview. “Would a bid be favorable? Yes.”  Martin Marietta Chief Financial Officer Anne Lloyd wouldn’t
comment yesterday when asked about another bid, beyond saying
the waiting period runs through Sept. 14. Meghan Gavigan, a
spokeswoman for Birmingham, Alabama-based Vulcan, also declined
to comment.  Vulcan jumped 11 percent, the most since Martin Marietta’s
Dec. 12 offer, to $46.46 in  New York  yesterday after a Sterne
Agee & Leach analyst said a renewed Martin Marietta bid was
“fairly likely.” Martin Marietta rose 3.3 percent to $86.89.  ‘Compelling’ Case  “There is still a compelling business case,” said
Mitchell, whose family sued Vulcan management for rejecting the
initial bid. “If I were Martin I would re-launch the tender
offer and let the shareholders vote on it.”  Profits at Vulcan and Martin Marietta have declined in the
weak construction market that followed the U.S. housing bubble
and the slump in state and local government infrastructure
spending. Since peaking in 2007, annual earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization dropped
63 percent at Vulcan and 42 percent at Martin Marietta.  Martin Marietta Chief Executive Officer Ward Nye made his
hostile, all-stock offer after talks with Vulcan CEO  Don James 
broke down. Nye promised to partly restore Vulcan’s quarterly
dividend, which was cut to 1 cent a share from 25 cents in
December, and find as much as $250 million in savings.  Vulcan’s Rejection  Vulcan rejected the offer as being too low and said the
U.S. Justice Department would force the sale of assets,
undercutting the value of the deal.  Loomis Sayles had been tilting toward Martin Marietta’s
initial offer before the judge’s decision, which kept the bid
from going to a shareholder vote, Barry said. The firm held
about 1.18 million Vulcan shares as of June 30, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Judge Strine’s May 4 decision in Wilmington blocked a vote
on the four Martin Marietta nominees to Vulcan’s 11-person board
at the company’s June 1 annual meeting. He ruled that Martin
Marietta used confidential information from Vulcan in devising
its bid, a decision upheld in July by the Delaware  Supreme
Court .  While the vote by Vulcan investors wouldn’t have given
Martin Marietta control of the company, it would have provided a
gauge of support for a deal,  Loomis Sayles ’s Barry said.  Looking In  “It gives us a chance to look under the covers a little
based on what shareholders think of a combined entity,” Barry
said. “Right now, we only hear a few bits and pieces.”  Martin Marietta had offered to exchange 0.5 share for each
Vulcan share, which would value Vulcan at 6.5 percent less than
yesterday’s closing prices for the two companies. A new offer
may need to be higher to gain Vulcan investors’ support, said
Kathryn Thompson, an analyst with Thompson Research Group in
Nashville,  Tennessee .  “It has to be at the right price,” said Thompson, who has
a buy rating on the shares of both companies. “From an industry
standpoint is makes a lot of sense for them to be combined.”  Vulcan responded to Martin Marietta’s bid with a proposal
for annualized cost cuts of $155 million and $500 million of
asset sales.  That undercuts Martin Marietta’s case of achieving savings,
said Ted Grace, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group. The
deal also faces antitrust scrutiny from the U.S. Justice
Department, which could force the combined company to sell
assets, and Martin Marietta “definitely” would have to
increase the price, Grace said.  “I don’t see this thing going anywhere,” Grace said.  One Martin Marietta investor said a deal still makes sense
if a Justice Department review doesn’t result in a large sale of
assets, which would dilute the value of a combined company and
aid rivals. A preliminary signal from the agency regarding any
asset sales would be helpful, said Tom Russo, a partner with
Lancaster, Pennsylvania-based Gardner Russo & Gardner.  “If they can get it on the proper terms, it should be
attractive,” Russo said.  The case is   Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)  v. Vulcan
Materials Co., CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  