-- Wall Street Rooting for Brown to Block Warren in Massachusetts
-- B y   S h e e l a h   K o l h a t k a r
-- 2012-09-13T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/wall-street-rooting-for-brown-to-block-warren-in-massachusetts.html
Scott Brown  is the only white guy 
on his team playing a charity basketball game at the Dunbar Y 
Community Center in Springfield, Massachusetts, and he’s 
working. He huffs up and down the court in a gold tank top with
a number 10 on it, maroon shorts, and Nike high-tops that make
it look as if he’s got black-and-white hams strapped to the 
ends of his legs.  The crowd is feisty, “Love Shack” pulses from speakers,
and the winded, sweaty Republican senator from one of the most
Democratic states looks annoyed as he misses his foul shots.  “This isn’t soccer, Senator!” someone shouts from the
stands, after Brown goes flying, for the second time, onto his
butt.  The silhouette of two men jabbing at BlackBerrys from the
sidelines is a reminder that this staged display of 
athleticism is more than just a fundraiser for troubled youth
on a steamy August afternoon, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its Sept. 17 issue. Brown’s race against Democratic candidate
Elizabeth Warren to hold his Senate seat -— formerly occupied 
by  Ted Kennedy  -- and narrowly won in a 2010 special election
has become one of the most closely watched congressional 
elections in the country. It’s also the most expensive, with 
more than $53 million raised so far, according to the Center 
for Responsive Politics. Much of  Wall Street , in particular, 
is determined to see Brown reelected.  Banker’s Darling  At stake is the vote that could alter the balance of power
between Democrats and Republicans in the Senate, as well as a
position of symbolic importance. The race is about two very
different views of America’s economic future.  For the Wall Street bankers, hedge fund managers, and
private equity executives from New York, Connecticut, and
elsewhere who are pouring money into Brown’s campaign, it’s 
also about something much closer to their hearts: stopping 
 Elizabeth Warren .  The Harvard Law professor, former head of the Congressional
Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program and
driving force behind the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in
Washington, has become the populist champion of government
restraint of Wall Street.  When asked why he thought Wall Street had become so active
on behalf of Brown, Massachusetts Representative Barney Frank
says: “Two words: Elizabeth Warren.”  Unrisky Business  “She makes everybody feel good about financial reform
because of her resume -— Harvard, former bankruptcy attorney.
You think she gets Wall Street. But she’s never taken risk,”
says Lawrence McDonald, a former Lehman trader and co-author of
“A Colossal Failure of Common Sense: The  Inside Story  of the
Collapse of  Lehman Brothers ,” who recently hosted a Brown
fundraiser on Cape Cod. “In every financial crisis, you have a
pendulum that swings, and she literally is that pendulum.”  Watching Warren speak makes clear why some in the money
business might feel that way.  “The system is rigged,” she told an adoring crowd at the
Democratic National Convention in Charlotte. “Wall Street CEOs,
the same ones who wrecked our economy and destroyed millions of
jobs, still strut around Congress, with no shame, demanding
favors and acting like we should thank them!” She paused amid
waves of screaming and clapping. “Does anyone have a problem
with that?”  Since bouncing into office as a Tea Party hero -- a truck-
driving everyman with great hair -- Brown, 53, has been trying
to project an image of moderation in the face of the anti-
corporate, We-Are-the-99-Percent outrage Warren represents.  Happy Center  This strategy creates challenges for him, especially in
Massachusetts, where his success depends on his image as an
amiable centrist: Be Republican, but not too Republican;
distance yourself from  Mitt Romney  and his conservative running
mate Paul Ryan without trashing them; show up at your party’s
convention, but act as if you don’t want to be there; accept
donations from financiers while pretending that you don’t know
why they’re so interested in you.  If Warren is a pendulum, Brown is a pretzel.  Portraying Brown as a glistening sports hero is a central
part of his campaign’s strategy. He’s been pictured biking 100-
plus miles across the state and doing triathlons.  “He’s definitely not ivory tower,” says Andrew Card, the
former White House chief of staff under  George W. Bush . “He is
engaged, he gets his hands dirty, he gets sweaty, and he gets 
in his truck and he shakes hands.”  Rushing Away  When Brown is asked whether he thinks it might hurt him to
be seen as allied with Wall Street, he stiffens. “I think
you’re listening to the Democratic talking points,” he says,
repeating one of his favorite lines. “All I know is, in
Massachusetts I’m considered the independent person I went down
there to be.”  The senator has developed a reputation as someone who
doesn’t particularly like answering press questions, and as he
talks, he prepares to rush away. “Professor Warren has said she
wants to leave blood and teeth on the floor and not compromise.
Well, she’ll fit right in down there.”  Warren, 63, is always referred to by the Brown camp as
“Professor Warren,” to emphasize a nerdy elitism. She
certainly would never be seen streaking up and down a basketball
court.  About halfway through the Springfield charity game, things
begin to turn around for the senator, and he starts scoring at
almost every opportunity.  After a stretch of seeming indifference to the political
celebrity in their midst, the crowd erupts enthusiastically
whenever Brown makes a move; even the BlackBerry wielders look
up from their screens. Brown’s team is ahead, 43-42, with 30
seconds left, and Brown has the ball. Then, somehow, one of his
opponents steals it and nails a shot just as the buzzer sounds.  No Outside  Both Brown and Warren are money-raising machines. In
January, they made a pact to try to prevent outside fundraising
groups, such as  Karl Rove ’s American Crossroads, from running
ads to influence the Massachusetts Senate race. So far the
outside groups have respected their wishes, leaving a campaign
that’s more petty than nasty.  Warren is on track to be one of the most successful Senate
fundraisers of all time, having wrangled $28 million in
contributions so far, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics. Much of that comes from national liberal groups such
as Emily’s List and Moveon.org, as well as individual donors
across the country that include the occasional Hollywood
celebrity, such as  Barbra Streisand .  Heavy Hitters  Brown has raised $19 million during the 2012 cycle, with
the financial-services industry giving the most.  A joint fundraising committee Brown launched with the
National Republican Senatorial Committee, the Scott Brown
Victory Committee, can receive up to $30,800 per donor per
cycle, a portion of which can go to Brown directly. As of June
2012, just under half of the $3.8 million raised had come from
people in finance.  Among the Wall Street titans who have contributed to
Brown’s campaign are Cliff Asness, co-founder of AQR Capital
Management;  Ken Griffin  of Citadel; Anthony Scaramucci of
SkyBridge Capital; and  Louis Bacon  of Moore Capital Management.  Brown is not of Wall Street. His hard-knocks-jock 
childhood in Wakefield, Mass., is an important part of his 
political identity. He was raised by a struggling mother who 
cycled through abusive boyfriends and husbands, a couple of whom
terrorized Brown and his sister.  Dangerous Trajectory  Brown seemed destined for a life of delinquency when he
discovered a passion for basketball, which carried him to  Tufts
University  on a scholarship. He joined the National Guard and
went to law school, married TV news reporter Gail Huff, and had
two daughters.  He also became famous for winning Cosmopolitan’s
“America’s Sexiest Man” contest in 1982, which catapulted him
into a frothy-but-brief modeling career, complete with hours
logged at New York’s Studio 54 in the shoulder-pad heyday of the
early 1980s.  “I came to be a Republican on my own, and it was partly
driven by sports,” he writes in his 2011 campaign memoir,
Against All Odds. “I believed in a strong military and in
service, and in standing up to those who wanted to do harm,”
Brown writes. “But beyond that, I had largely identified with
Republicans as the party of fiscal responsibility and fiscal
restraint.”  ‘Modest Record’  He says it was his wife who urged him in 1992 to become a
property assessor and later a member of the board of selectmen
in Wrentham, where they lived. In 1998, Brown ran successfully
for the state House of Representatives. He made the leap to
state senator in 2004—a special election he won against all
predictions by 343 votes.  As a member of the minority party in the statehouse, he
hewed to issues that could be described as safe.  “Brown has a modest record of legislative initiatives, but
he has carved out a niche as a leading advocate for veterans,”
wrote columnist Brian Mooney in the Boston Globe.  Then, in August 2009, Ted Kennedy died.  “If you want to make a fool of yourself, go ahead,” Brown
recalls his wife saying to him when he expressed interest in
running for the seat Kennedy had occupied for 47 years. He met
with Andrew Card, who briefly considered pursuing the seat.  “He was a bit bombastic when he first started talking to
me -- ‘I am going to run and I am going to win,’ ” Card recalls
Brown telling him when they were feeling out one another’s
intentions.  Influential Trio  But then the tenor of the conversation shifted, Card says,
and Brown suddenly offered to help run Card’s campaign if he
decided to move forward—which he didn’t.  “I was surprised that he was so committed to running, and
that he also committed to supporting me if I wanted to run.”  Brown met with a trio of campaign consultants who are with
him still, veterans of Romney’s campaign for governor and 
failed 2008 presidential run:  Eric Fehrnstrom , Romney’s campaign
strategist; Beth Myers, Romney’s former chief of staff; and
Peter Flaherty, a former prosecutor. “They’re talented people,
particularly in the Massachusetts milieu,” says Peter Blute,
deputy chairman of the Massachusetts Republican Party.  “This is a different place, different from anywhere else.
They say in Massachusetts only three things matter: sports,
politics, and revenge.”  Truck-driving Man  Brown spent much of the Senate campaign driving around in
his pickup truck and calling in to radio shows to gab about the
 Red Sox , although the truck, it later turned out, had been
purchased to haul his daughter Arianna’s horse around rather
than be used as his daily ride.  Anger over the economy and the battle over the Affordable
Care Act, among other things, had mobilized conservatives. There
were only a handful of venues in which voters could vent their
frustration, which played in Brown’s favor. A Democratic win was
still such a foregone conclusion that it took months for Brown
to get his national party’s attention, but he finally did.  “About a month out from the election, where polls were
narrowing, the money came from just about everywhere,” Blute
says of Brown’s fundraising. “The money was coming so fast that
at the end, they couldn’t even open the envelopes. They had,
like, $7 million left over.”  After months trailing far behind his opponent, Attorney
General  Martha Coakley , Brown surprised everyone by winning.  Crossing Lines  According to a tally maintained by the Washington Post,
Brown has voted 66 percent of the time with his own party during
his brief time in Washington; he likes to cite a narrower 54
percent figure as evidence of his bipartisanship. He sponsored a
bill to promote the hiring of veterans and voted to repeal Don’t
Ask Don’t Tell. In late 2011, he helped write a bill banning
members of Congress from trading stocks based on nonpublic
information.  In July 2010, Brown voted in favor of the Dodd-Frank
financial reform bill, which created the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau and mandated rules to regulate derivatives and
deal with failing banks.  Brown’s support of the bill, which most Republicans
opposed, was the deciding vote. However, he used his vote to
extract changes that financial institutions wanted made to the
Volcker Rule, a central aspect of the legislation that limits
proprietary trading for FDIC-insured banks, giving them a little
more “wiggle room,” as Frank puts it.  Maine Events  As a result, banks are allowed to invest up to 3 percent of
their capital in private equity and hedge funds, a change that
benefited Wall Street as well as Massachusetts-based Fidelity
Investments and State Street. Brown, along with Maine Republican
Senators Olympia Snowe and  Susan Collins , also insisted that the
cost of implementing the legislation, estimated at around $20
billion by the Congressional Budget Office, come from TARP money
rather than through a levy on the largest banks, as the
Democrats wanted.  “Since we needed their votes,” Frank says, “we had to
relieve the financial institutions of that and put it on the
taxpayers.”  Then, in June 2012, e-mails between Brown’s legislative
director, Nat Hoopes, and the U.S. Department of Treasury came
to light showing that Brown had continued to lobby to loosen the
rules as they were being written.  Race Pals  Hoopes had argued for the most lenient interpretation
possible of the Volcker rule; to allow banks to bring in outside
customers to invest in private equity and hedge funds; and to
increase the ability of banks to lend money to private equity
and hedge funds in need of bailouts—which could further
jeopardize depositors’ money, critics say.  “Want to make sure that it all goes the right way after
all the heat we’ve taken,” Hoopes, who’d previously worked at
Lehman Brothers, wrote to Treasury official Barrett Hester on
March 3, 2011. “This should be very simple and straightforward
and the Fed is over-complicating it.”  In another e-mail message, Hoopes referred to Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  as Brown’s “triathlon buddy.” That
and the Dodd-Frank interventions gave Warren an opening to
attack Brown as beholden to Wall Street.  “Wall Street people have no Senate race that means
anything,” says McDonald, the Lehman alum and Brown fundraiser,
explaining one reason he got involved in Brown’s campaign.
McDonald says that he’s concerned about the stability of the
financial system and that academics have become too influential
with policymakers in Washington.  Eating Supper  “A Hank Paulson-type person versus Elizabeth Warren is
like night and day in terms of effectiveness at handling what is
going on today.” If Warren were to win, McDonald says, she’d be
“seen as an expert” by a second Obama administration, which he
finds terrifying.  Scott Brown is “just a good senator,” McDonald adds. “He
wouldn’t be an adviser to either candidate in a financial
crisis.”  On Aug. 14, Brown gave what was billed as a “major policy
speech” on taxes at Lombardo’s, a supper club from a bygone era
in Randolph, outside Boston. The news media were well
represented, along with 400 or so members of the South Shore
Chamber of Commerce.  Anticipation was high—Brown’s people had been promoting the
event heavily, promising lots of “policy.” As the attendees
vacuumed up plates of chicken francese, Brown launched into an
impassioned defense of “risk takers” in the economy.  Absent Policy  “I want to say thank you,” he said to the job creators
out there, sounding a lot like Romney. The speech turned out to
be devoid of policy ideas, however, focusing instead on sharp
critiques of Brown’s opponent.  He referred to “Professor Warren’s twisted logic” and
said she thought successful people “owe a hunk of [their]
success back to the government as higher taxes.”  He became worked up, referring to the coming
“Taxmageddon” and asserting that Warren supported “$3.4
trillion in tax increases” -- a number later contested in the
press. Then came the wind-down: “I’m going to make mistakes,
but I learn from them, and then I grow, and I move on and I
become a better senator.”  Where Brown overwhelms people he meets with a firm
handshake and brawny charm, the wisp-thin Warren speaks in soft-
but-urgent tones and repeats three names that she evidently
believes will carry her to Washington like magic flying teacups:
Brown, Romney, and Ryan.  Indian Spring  The technique hasn’t been working as well as it might have,
partly because Warren had a rocky introduction to the joys of
campaigning. In April, the Boston Herald reported that she had
been listed as Native American by  Harvard Law School  in an
attempt to make it seem more diverse.  The revelation became a scandal, which Warren handled
poorly as she came to be mocked as “Fauxcahontas” in the
conservative press.  She also provided the inspiration for President Obama’s
infamous “you didn’t build that” line—a botched rendition of a
talk she gave last summer—which became the rallying cry of the
Republican National Convention.  “This race is about the direction the country will take,”
Warren said between handshakes at Sheriff Michael Ashe’s annual
clambake outside Springfield on Aug. 16.  “Scott Brown, Mitt Romney, and  Paul Ryan  believe that the
way to build a future for America is to cut taxes for the thin
slice at the top and let everyone else deal with the
consequences.”  No Nomination  Warren was a well-established bankruptcy expert at Harvard
when she was called to chair the congressional panel overseeing
the TARP bailout funds.  She clashed with members of Congress and Treasury officials
who she felt weren’t cooperative. Warren pushed for the creation
of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, intended to shield
consumers from unfair lending practices at credit-card companies
and banks, yet President Obama didn’t nominate her to lead it
because of intense Republican opposition.  In Springfield, Warren was asked if she knew that she’d
been referred to as “a threat to free enterprise” during a
Brown campaign event that morning.  “Once again, Scott Brown stands with the big Washington
lobbyists,” she said. “I want to close the loopholes and say
no more subsidies to Big Oil, and those guys just hate that! I’m
out there working for middle-class families and small
businesses, nothing’s going to change on that.”  Prom King  The polls have been tight for months; almost everyone
agrees that the race will depend largely on turnout. A handful
of people were waiting excitedly when Brown and his wife swept
into a True Value hardware store in Braintree, just south of
Boston, to accept an endorsement from the National Federation of
Independent Business.  Brown was wearing a red tie and a blue button-down with the
sleeves neatly rolled up to his elbows; Huff was a glamour bomb
in full makeup, swirling purple harem pants, and a pair of high
heels as she teetered through the aisles inspecting paint
thinner and cockroach poison. It was as if the prom king and
queen had errands to run.  “Small and independent businesses like the one you’re
standing in right now create jobs, not the, uh, government,”
Brown said. “As you know, Professor Warren seems to think that
entrepreneurs are delusional, that they built their businesses
when all along it was the government.”  Warren’s Chalkboard  He cycled through his bit: The government “needs to know
when to stand out of the way"; ‘‘you will never, ever hear me
demonizing our job creators"; Warren wants ‘‘3.4 trillion
dollars of tax increases over the next 10 years"; ‘‘I’ve been an
independent thinker, a bipartisan leader"; tax hikes, tax hikes,
tax hikes, Professor Warren, Professor Warren.   In spite of his reputation as a likable dude, Brown has
become increasingly personal in his attacks over the course of
the campaign, with constant references to Warren’s
‘‘chalkboard’’ and professorial mien. He was starting to seem as
if he actively disliked her.  Yet when asked whether he thinks she’s an honorable person,
he started sputtering. ‘‘If you’re talking … of course she’s
honorable. We may disagree on policy issues …’’ he began, as a
local television camera filmed away.  Ask the Kids  ‘‘You know, I’ve been serving in the military for 32 years,
I’ve been serving as an elected official, as an assessor,
selectman, state rep, and in the United States Senate, and I
think … when you’re talking about honorable, if you look it up
in the dictionary, it talks about honor, and if you’re saying,
do I have honor, yes, I strive very much to be an honorable
person and treat this office with a lot of honor and dignity.
Let me ask my wife. Honey, do you consider me honorable?”  Brown turned to Huff, who was standing off to the side.
“Yes!” she said, giggling. “Very honest. Too honest at
times.”  “Just ask my daughters,” Brown said. “I am very,
brutally honest.”  “Thanks for taking the time,” he added. “I encourage you
to buy something on your way out, like I’m going to do.”  The people who had gathered disbanded, and Brown and Huff
figured out what to buy.  Brown approached the register with a bag of Cracker Jack, a
bottle of Vitaminwater, a box of bat repellent, and some
mousetraps. He pulled out his wallet.  “Scott, Scott, get me a drink, Hon,” Huff said, sliding a
Coke out of the fridge. As they gathered up their purchases and
jostled out to waiting SUVs, the hardware store cashier said:
“They have a bat in their attic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheelah Kolhatkar in New York at 
 skolhatkar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bradford Wieners at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net  