-- Wasendorf to Be Freed on Bail After Pleading Guilty
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-09-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/wasendorf-to-be-freed-on-bail-after-pleading-guilty.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.’s
indicted founder, Russell Wasendorf Sr., who tried to kill
himself in July, will be freed on bail after he pleads guilty to
embezzlement on Sept. 17, a judge said.  “Following defendant’s plea of guilty, the court will
review with defendant the terms of an order setting conditions
of release,” U.S. Magistrate Judge Jon Scoles in  Cedar Rapids ,
Iowa, said in a written ruling yesterday. “Defendant will be
released at that time.”  Wasendorf, 64, has been jailed since his July 13 arrest on
charges he lied to U.S. regulators about the amount of client
funds his  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based firm had on deposit at its
bank. He was indicted on 31 counts last month.  His agreement to plead guilty to two false-statement counts
and individual counts of mail fraud and embezzlement was
disclosed by an FBI agent at Wasendorf’s bail hearing on Sept.
11. He may receive a prison sentence of as long as 50 years,
according to a copy of the plea agreement posted on the court’s
electronic docket yesterday.  At least $190 million in Peregrine client funds are
unaccounted for, the liquidating trustee in the firm’s
bankruptcy case told creditors during a meeting at the federal
courthouse in  Chicago  on Sept. 10.  Suicide Attempt  Wasendorf, in a note written before a failed suicide
attempt on July 9, said he’d been stealing from the firm for
almost 20 years, Scoles said in yesterday’s ruling.  Prosecutors opposed his release on bail, arguing Wasendorf
was still a suicide risk as well as a flight risk. He has been
on suicide watch at the Linn County Jail since his arrest, the
judge said.  Wade Kisner, a spokesman for Cedar Rapids U.S. Attorney
Stephanie Rose, declined to comment on the court’s decision.  Scoles said in his ruling that Wasendorf would be confined
to the home of his friend and pastor, Linda Livingston, and
ordered to wear an electronic monitoring device.  Not Suicidal  Livingston testified on Wasendorf’s behalf at the Sept. 11
hearing, telling the court the Peregrine chairman and chief
executive officer was no longer suicidal and “glad to be
alive,” Scoles said.  The court released several documents entered into evidence
at the bail hearing, including notes Wasendorf had written to
his son, Russell Wasendorf Jr., and new wife, Nancy Paladino,
before trying to kill himself by asphyxiation in his car outside
company headquarters.  “To my wonderful son, Russ,” Wasendorf wrote, “by the
time you read this I will have taken my life. I beg for your
forgiveness. I have written my final confession that will be
discovered with my body. I know you will be shocked to discover
my crimes.”  “I never wanted you to know the kind of guy I really
was,” he said. “Your mistake was that you trusted your father.
Nothing more.”  ‘Forgive Me’  To Paladino, he said, “Please forgive me for typing this
letter. My hands are shaking so much I cannot write. I love you
so much and I so wanted to spend my final years growing old with
you. I am so sorry that this will not happen.”  Paladino has filed for an annulment of their June 30
marriage in Nevada state court in  Las Vegas .  Livingston testified that Paladino is still committed to
Wasendorf and that the annulment petition was filed to insulate
her from financial liability for crimes of which she was
unaware, according to Scoles’s ruling.  In agreeing to release Wasendorf before he is sentenced,
Scoles cited Livingston’s testimony as well as the confiscation
of Wasendorf’s assets in a lawsuit filed against him by the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “Defendant’s actions, which he has admitted, are
reprehensible,” Scoles wrote. “Thousands of PFG customers have
lost millions of dollars as a result of defendant’s criminal
activity. But the issue before me at this time is not one of
punishment.”  “The court cannot detain a defendant prior to trial simply
because it thinks it’s appropriate to do so,” according to the
magistrate.  The case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-cr-2012, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Iowa  (Cedar Rapids).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  