-- Weingarten ‘Cautiously Optimistic’ Chicago Strike Close to End
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-09-14T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/weingarten-cautiously-optimistic-chicago-strike-near-end.html
The president of the  American
Federation of Teachers ,  Randi Weingarten , said she is
“cautiously optimistic” that a deal will be reached to end
 Chicago ’s teachers’ strike within a couple of days.  “There’s a real seriousness at the bargaining table,”
Weingarten said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend.  The strike by the nation’s third-largest school district
has kept more than 350,000 students out of classrooms since
Sept. 10. At issue is union opposition to policies that teachers
say unfairly punish them by putting too much emphasis on
standardized tests and include cuts to pay and benefits.  The strike poses a political challenge for President  Barack Obama , who is counting on support from organized labor as he
courts independent voters who tend to support school reforms.  The strike also puts Obama between the American Federation
of Teachers, which endorsed his re-election in February and
which represents Chicago teachers, and his former chief of
staff,  Rahm Emanuel , who as mayor of Chicago oversees the school
district.  Emanuel, Weingarten said, “did a lot of poking in the eye
that he ought not to have done.” Weingarten wouldn’t say
whether things would have been different under former Chicago
Mayor  Richard M. Daley .  Weingarten defended the union’s rejection of a school board
proposal that would base at least 25 percent of a teacher’s
rating during the contract’s first two years on their pupils’
academic performance. That would rise to 30 percent in the third
year.  ‘Formulaic’ Evaluations  “Teacher evaluation, instead of being really about, ‘Have
I taught it and have kids learned it?’ it’s now being, becoming
formulaic,” she said.  Obama has used federal funds to advocate tying teachers’
evaluations to student performance, measures opposed by the
union.  Weingarten said that Emanuel’s decision to cancel a teacher
raise “didn’t help” and that the Obama administration’s
emphasis on tests and charter schools as a “panacea” is the
wrong answer.  She said the Obama administration, including Education
Secretary  Arne Duncan , a former Chicago schools chief executive,
is “too fixated on measurements and competition.”  Asked whether a lingering strike would hurt Obama’s
presidential bid, Weingarten said it’s one of “so many issues
in the national election about whose side are you on, whether
you’re for an economy that works for the middle class or whether
people are on their own, that this issue is very localized.”  Negotiations between the 30,000-member union and Chicago
Board of Education resumed yesterday. The strike is the third-
largest by public-sector workers since 1993, when the Bureau of
Labor Statistics began keeping records.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
Or  kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  