-- Wholesale Prices in U.S. Rise Most in Three Years on Oil
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-09-13T12:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-rise-most-in-three-years-as-oil-surge.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S.
increased in August by the most in more than three years,
reflecting a surge in energy costs.  The  producer price index  climbed 1.7 percent after an
increase of 0.3 percent in July, the Labor Department reported
today in  Washington . The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of 79 economists called for a 1.2 percent gain. Core wholesale
inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, rose
0.2 percent, in line with forecasts.  Companies may find it difficult to pass on higher energy
costs as the global economic slowdown and so-called fiscal cliff
of higher taxes and government spending cuts prompt their
customers to limit spending. The absence of broad-based price
increases gives Federal Reserve policy makers, who meet today,
room to provide more monetary stimulus for the economy.  “Outside of energy, producer prices for the most part are
pretty contained,” said  Omair Sharif , a U.S. economist at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “I don’t think the
Fed is going to be too concerned. The Fed is going to take
today’s report as consistent with their view that the run-up in
energy is transitory.”  The gain in producer prices was the biggest since June 2009
and reflected the biggest jump in energy costs in three years.  Another Labor Department report showed the number of
Americans filing applications for  unemployment benefits  rose
more than projected last week. Jobless  claims  increased 15,000
in the week ended Sept. 8, the biggest gain in almost two
months, to 382,000.  Stock Futures  Stock-index futures held earlier losses as investors
awaited the Fed’s statement on monetary policy. The contract on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring this month fell 0.2
percent to 1,437 at 8:53 a.m. in  New York .  Economists’ estimates for producer prices ranged from
increases of 0.1 percent to 2 percent. Core wholesale prices
were projected to climb 0.2 percent, the Bloomberg survey
showed.  Compared with a year ago, companies paid 2 percent more for
goods, after a 0.5 percent gain in the 12 months ended in July.
The core index increased 2.5 percent in the year ended in
August, matching the rise a month earlier.  Fuel costs surged 6.4 percent from the prior month after
five straight declines. Gasoline prices advanced 13.6 percent,
while home heating oil costs increased 10.8 percent, the most
since October 2010.  Food Prices  The cost of finished foods rose 0.9 percent, the biggest
gain since November and reflecting higher prices for eggs,
vegetables and dairy products.  Prices of passenger cars decreased 0.2 percent, while costs
declined for furniture, computers and footwear.  Expenses for intermediate goods increased 1.1 percent, and
those for crude goods jumped 5.8 percent. Intermediate, or semi-
finished, goods excluding energy and food decreased 0.2 percent
in August, the fourth straight decline.  The producer price index is one of several inflation
measures monitored by the Fed. The  consumer price index , due
tomorrow, is projected to increase 0.6 percent, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The Fed may announce today a third round of bond purchases,
according to almost two-thirds of economists in a Bloomberg
survey, while also extending the duration of its zero-interest-
rate policy into 2015.  Fed Meeting  More quantitative easing intended to boost the expansion
could prompt inflation pressures. Fed officials in June forecast
that by late 2014 the jobless rate would still be above their
full-employment estimate of 5.2 percent to 6 percent, with
inflation not rising above their goal of 2 percent.  At the same time, the worst U.S. drought in 50 years that
pushed up grain prices will drive up some input costs.  “We have started to hear from some of the big vendors
about price increases -- we do believe they are real,”  Robert Moran , chairman and chief executive officer of Phoenix-based pet
product supplier  PetSmart Inc. (PETM) , said at a Sept. 6 conference.
“They are not driven by speculative markets, they are driven by
the droughts and increased commodity prices that are probably
here to stay for a while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  