-- World Bank Urges Governments to Moderate Banking Intervention
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-09-13T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/world-bank-urges-governments-to-moderate-banking-intervention.html
Governments should promote
transparency and competition in the financial industry instead
of seeking state ownership of banks that sacrifice efficiency
and create market distortions, according to a  World Bank  report.  Public sector involvement in finance should not reduce
private sector incentives, the World Bank said today in its
Global Financial Development Report. The study warned that
lending by state-owned banks tends to be more prone to credit
misallocation.  The report coincides with the fourth anniversary of the
Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. collapse, which triggered the
biggest global economic downturn since the Great Depression. The
crisis sparked intervention in companies from  Bank of America 
Corp. to Spain’s  Bankia (BKIA)  SA, while state development banks such
as  Brazil ’s BNDES increased lending to spur demand. Governments
need to focus on providing supervision and ensuring competition
in the financial sector, said World Bank Group Managing Director
Mahmoud Mohieldin.  “They need to support financial infrastructure, such as
better quality credit information that is shared more
systematically,” Mohieldin said in a press release accompanying
the report. “As we emerge from the global financial crisis,
governments may want to consider shifting toward indirect
interventions.”  The World Bank report examined financial sector data from
200 countries. Researchers considered factors including the size
of financial institutions and markets, financial access,
efficiency, and stability.  Recommendations  The World Bank warned against over reliance on state-owned
banks, noting that they might crowd out more effective private
institutions. Since the 2008 crisis, state-owned banks in
 developing countries  such as  India , Tunisia, Brazil and  China 
have assumed a more active role in lending credit, the report
said.  Policy makers should enact less complex regulations, which
will help facilitate transparency. Governments should also take
steps to implement policies that guarantee market
accountability, the flow of credit information and contract
enforceability.  The World Bank said the degree of state involvement in
finance helped determine the pace of economic recovery since the
2008 crisis.  “The quality of a state’s policy for the financial sector
matters more than the economy’s level of development,” the
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 