-- Worst of Drought Expands as U.S. Marks New High for Dry
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-09-13T13:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/worst-of-drought-expands-as-u-s-marks-new-high-for-dry.html
The worst drought conditions in the
lower 48 states expanded for the third week in a row as the
level of moderate-to-worse drought hit a high for the year, the
U.S. Drought Monitor said.  Exceptional drought, the most severe category on a four-
step scale, now covers 6.23 percent of the region, an increase
from 6.14 percent last week, according to the  Monitor , based in
Lincoln,  Nebraska . The category peaked Aug. 21 at 6.31 percent.  The four levels combined increased to 64.16 percent from
63.39 percent last week, the highest this year, the Monitor
reported. The previous high was 63.86 percent on July 24.  “Persistence of hot and dry conditions let to expansion of
extreme drought and exceptional drought in northern and central
Oklahoma, as well as southeastern  Texas ,” according to an
analysis by David Simeral of the  Western Regional Climate Center 
in Reno,  Nevada .  There were “minor improvements” in the Midwest, Northeast
and mid-Atlantic, as well as in  Arizona  and the Great Basin, the
Monitor said. The report covers the week ended Sept. 11.  Drought has pushed corn and soybean prices up for months as
the dry weather crimped the size of the U.S. harvest. The lack
of rain across the central U.S. has also lowered water levels in
the Mississippi and Ohio rivers, causing barge traffic there to
slow down and increasing shipping rates on the waterways.  Corn Harvest  Farmers are expected to harvest 10.727 billion bushels of
corn, the smallest crop in six years and down 13 percent from
12.358 billion in 2011, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said
yesterday in its second survey-based estimate for the crop. Crop
conditions as of Sept. 9 were the worst since 1988, with the
harvest about 15 percent complete, USDA data show.  In the U.S. as a whole, including  Puerto Rico , some form of
drought now covers 53.7 percent of the country, also a high for
the year.  The Drought Monitor is a partnership including the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , the Drought Mitigation
Center at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and the Agriculture
Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  