-- Xi Activities Get First Mention in State Media Since Sept. 1
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-13T09:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/xi-jinping-sends-condolences-for-death-of-communist-cadre-1-.html
China ’s media reported on Vice
President  Xi Jinping ’s activities for the first time since Sept.
1, signaling the Communist Party may be countering speculation
his absence would disrupt a transfer of power.  The official Guangxi Daily reported today that Xi, who is
forecast to become China’s next president and general secretary
of the 82 million-strong party in a leadership change later this
year, joined other top Chinese officials in sending condolences
to the family of a party member who died on Sept. 6. The story
was also posted on the  Communist Party’s website .  “It is a sign by the top leadership to reassure the world
that nothing excessively bad or disruptive has happened to Xi
Jinping,” said Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of
history at the  Chinese University of Hong Kong . “Of course this
doesn’t allay people’s suspicions about whether he will be a
physically fit general secretary.”  The vacuum of news on Xi, 59, had stoked concerns about the
leadership succession. The scandal surrounding ousted Politburo
member Bo Xilai had already clouded the transition of power and
the party still hasn’t announced the date of the congress where
the handover to a new generation of leaders will begin.  Speculation about Xi began after he canceled meetings with
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Singaporean Prime
Minister Lee Hsien Loong last week. The Wall Street Journal
reported that Xi may have injured his back swimming. The Hong
Kong-based Apple Daily newspaper, citing unidentified sources,
reported today that Xi suffered a heart attack.  ‘Normal Adjustment’  Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said last week that the
cancellations were a “normal adjustment.” Asked about Xi’s
appearance in state media today, Hong said he had “noticed”
the relevant reports and declined to address Xi’s health. He
said preparations were “well underway” for the party congress
and a date would be announced “in due course.”  “We’re not really concerned that he’s gone from all the
meetings,” Justin Harper, a Singapore-based market strategist
at IG Markets, said by phone today. “The change of leadership
in China should still go smoothly. It highlights the fact that
China needs to catch up with rest of the world.”  Xi, President  Hu Jintao , former Premier Zhu Rongji and
other leaders sent their condolences to the family of Huang
Rong, who died at age 102, the Guangxi Daily reported on its
website. The report didn’t say when Xi sent his condolences and
didn’t quote him or include a picture of him.  He’s Appearance  He Guoqiang, a Politburo Standing Committee member whose
public absence since late August had been linked to Xi’s,
appeared on state television yesterday visiting Chinese
newspapers. Citing an unidentified government source, the U.S.-
based website Boxun.com reported earlier that He and Xi may have
been hurt in car accidents.  Chinese stocks have risen since Xi canceled his meeting
with Clinton, suggesting no sign of investor unease about his
absence or China’s upcoming political transition. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has risen more than 3 percent since Sept. 5. The
cost of insuring Chinese sovereign bonds against default fell to
the lowest in more than a year yesterday, according to data
provider CMA.  The run-up to the Communist Party congress has been
complicated by Bo’s ouster, in the country’s deepest political
crisis since the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests. Bo’s wife was
convicted last month of the murder of British businessman Neil
Heywood and he was suspended in April from the Politburo on
allegations of violating party discipline.  “We’re expecting this transition to take place as everyone
is expecting -- indeed its very predictability seems to be its
defining characteristic,” Australian Foreign Minister Bob Carr
said in an Australian Broadcasting Corp. interview broadcast
yesterday.  The speculation over Xi hasn’t affected  Australia ’s ties
with its top export destination, Carr said. “Nor has it
affected the decision-making in China, as far as we can judge.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  