-- Yale Chief Investment Officer Swensen Treated for Cancer
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-09-13T15:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/yale-chief-investment-officer-swensen-treated-for-cancer.html
David Swensen , the long-serving
head of  Yale University ’s endowment who helped rewrite how
colleges invest their money, has been diagnosed with cancer.  Swensen, 58, is undergoing treatment and taking temporary
leave,  Tom Conroy , a spokesman for New Haven, Connecticut-based
Yale, said today in an e-mail. Conroy declined to disclose the
type of cancer.  The illness was first disclosed on Yale’s campus in New
Haven, Connecticut, earlier this week when Swensen was absent
from an economics seminar he teaches. The students were told by
Dean Takahashi, a senior director in the investments office,
that Swensen had cancer and would be out for about a month, the
Yale Daily News said today, citing conversations with students.
Takahashi didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Swensen joined Yale as chief investment officer in 1985
from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and pioneered an investing
style that has helped  endowments  beat markets by aggressively
investing in alternative assets such as private equity and real
estate. Under his stewardship, the university has generated an
annual rate of return of 14.2 percent during the past 20 years,
which is the top among the eight northeastern U.S. schools that
make up the  Ivy League .  Yale’s endowment was valued at $19.4 billion as of June 30,
2011, making the university the second wealthiest, after  Harvard
University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  “His value to the university over more than 25 years has
been enormous and we hope he returns to the job,” said John Griswold, executive director of the Commonfund Institute, an
education and research group that is an arm of the Commonfund in
Wilton, Connecticut. The company manages about $25 billion for
nonprofit institutions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  