-- Yankees, Orioles Win to Stay Tied for Lead in AL East Division
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-09-13T05:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/yankees-orioles-win-to-stay-tied-for-lead-in-al-east-division.html
The  New York Yankees  and  Baltimore
Orioles  logged one-run wins to remain locked together atop the
American League East division with three weeks remaining in the
Major League Baseball regular season.  The Yankees hung on for a 5-4 win against the  Boston Red
Sox  and the Orioles had a run-scoring single in the bottom of
the ninth inning to beat the Tampa Bay Rays 3-2 last night.  Curtis Granderson  hit his 36th and 37th home runs of the
season for the Yankees and Robinson Cano added his career-high
30th homer at Fenway Park in Boston.  Nate McLouth drove in the winning run at Camden Yards to
give Baltimore their second straight win over the Rays. The
Yankees and Orioles are both  80-62  for the season.  The Rays are three games behind the Yankees and Orioles in
the AL East, and also are three games back in the race for an AL
wild-card berth. The Oakland Athletics (82-60) top the wild-card
standings after winning 4-1 against the Los Angeles Angels
(77-66), who are 3 1/2 games back. The top two non-division
winners in each league earn wild-card spots in the postseason.  A solo home run by Granderson and a two-run hit by Cano in
the top of the fourth gave New York a 3-0 lead before James Loney cut the advantage to two runs with a run-scoring single in
the bottom of the inning.  Granderson made it 5-1 with a two-run shot in the seventh
before Jarrod Saltalamacchia scored on Mauro Gomez’s ground out
and  Mike Aviles  added a one-run double in the bottom of the
inning. Boston got its final run in the ninth on a home run by
Saltalamacchia, who went 3-for-3 to get a base hit in every at-
bat for the first time in his career.  Jeter Injured  Yankees shortstop  Derek Jeter , who scored his 1,860th run
to pass Mel Ott for 12th on the career list, left in the eighth
with a leg injury.  Red Sox second baseman  Dustin Pedroia  left the game in the
top of the seventh inning to attend the birth of his child,
while his teammate  Cody Ross , manager  Bobby Valentine  and third-
base coach Jerry Royster were ejected in the eighth for arguing
with home-plate umpire Alfonso Marquez.  The AL-leading Texas Rangers improved to 85-57 with a 5-2
home win over the Cleveland Indians, while the Detroit Tigers
won 8-6 at the White Sox to pull within one game of Chicago in
the AL Central.  In the National League, East division leader Washington won
2-0 at the  New York Mets  to improve to an MLB-best 89-54. The
Mets have lost six straight games.  Central leader Cincinnati (87-57) won 2-1 at home against
the Pittsburgh Pirates, who also lost their sixth straight game.  The Los Angeles Dodgers (74-69) missed an opportunity to
improve their playoff chances after the Atlanta Braves (81-63)
lost 8-2 to the Milwaukee Brewers and the San Diego Padres won
3-2 against the St. Louis Cardinals (75-68). The Dodgers lost
3-2 to the  Arizona  Diamondbacks, leaving Los Angeles a game
behind Atlanta and St. Louis in the wild-card standings.  The San Francisco Giants (81-62) won 8-3 against the
Colorado Rockies to extend their lead over the Dodgers atop the
NL West to seven games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  