-- ZTE Sees Computer Services Sales Jump in Next Few Years
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-13T08:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-13/zte-sees-computer-services-sales-jump-in-next-few-years.html
ZTE Corp. (763)  said it projects sales
growth exceeding 50 percent annually for the next few years from
computing services for governments and businesses as the company
further expands beyond making phone network equipment.  Sales of computer services to governments and businesses
rose 90 percent to 8.8 billion  yuan  ($1.4 billion) in 2011, and
jumped 70 percent in the first six months of this year, Hu Jian,
vice president of ZTE’s government and enterprise solutions
unit, said in an interview in Beijing today.  ZTE today announced the start of commercial service for
 China ’s first fourth-generation wireless data network for the
Beijing municipal government as part of its expansion into
computing services. ZTE is expanding in mobile devices and cloud
computing where sales growth is faster than its traditional
phone equipment business as the pace of new mobile network
rollouts slows.  “The 70 percent revenue growth for the first half of 2012
would make this one of the fastest growing segments of the
company,” said Lisa Soh, a Hong Kong-based analyst with
Macquarie Group Ltd. “This does appear to be a source of profit
growth for ZTE.”  ZTE climbed 2.8 percent to close at HK$10.86 in  Hong Kong 
trading, the highest level since Aug. 28. The benchmark  Hang
Seng Index  fell 0.1 percent. The  stock has lost  55 percent this
year, while the benchmark has added 8.8 percent.  The company last month reported first-half sales rose 15
percent to 42.6 billion yuan. The postponement of some Chinese
carrier network contracts, as well as foreign exchange losses,
led ZTE to post an 85 percent drop in second-quarter  profit .  Business Computing  The company in May 2011 forecast cloud computing would
account for one-third of ZTE’s sales within three to five years.  “We can continue high speed growth in this area for the
next few years at least,” Hu said today of the government and
business computing services unit he helps manage.  The company started its computing services push with
existing customers of network equipment gear such as  China
Mobile Ltd. (941)  and  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  Now, ZTE is
seeking out projects from governments and businesses to use
computing power to improve areas including transportation,
energy, health care and education. The company is using
“icity” as its brand for the new services.  “ZTE has made a lot of effort in the corporate market,
reducing reliance on carriers,” Steven Liu, a Hong Kong-based
analyst with Standard Chartered Bank, wrote in an e-mail today.
“I think it’s still small, less than 15 percent of revenue.”  The 4G data service the company announced today in Beijing
runs the TD-LTE standard which offers speeds 10 times faster
than current 3G networks, the Shenzhen-based company said in a
statement. ZTE began trials of the Beijing data network at the
end of last year and today announced the beginning of commercial
service.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  