-- ‘Dark Knight’ Is No. 1 for 2nd Weekend With $64.1 Million
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-07-29T20:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/-dark-knight-is-no-1-for-second-weekend-with-64-1-million.html
“The  Dark Knight  Rises,” Warner
Bros.’ last film in the trilogy featuring  Christian Bale  as
Batman, led the U.S. box office again, taking in $64.1 million a
week after a shooting in a  Colorado  cinema killed 12 people.  The tally brought total domestic sales for “The Dark
Knight Rises” to $289 million, researcher  Hollywood.com  said
today in a statement. Forecasts of U.S. and Canadian ticket
sales for the film ranged from $64 million at Box Office Guru to
the low-to-mid $70 million range at Hollywood.com.  Analysts were looking for signs that fans may be reluctant
to go to the movies after the July 20 shooting at a Cinemark
theater in Aurora, Colorado, screening the Batman movie. Twelve
people died and 58 were wounded. Opening weekend sales of “The
Dark Knight Rises,” at $160.9 million, fell short of forecasts
that preceded the tragedy. The sales still ranked among the
highest ever for a weekend opening.  The film “took a fairly big hit with the first weekend of
Olympic coverage taking a bite out of the box office,”  Paul
Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com Box-Office, wrote in a
report today. “This was a very slow weekend.”  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 25 percent to
$128.6 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.  “The Dark Knight Rises” marks the third and final pairing
of Bale with director  Christopher Nolan , who combined to create
a hit franchise for studio parent  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  from the
company’s DC Comics library.  Financial Ruin  The first two films, “Batman Begins” and “The Dark
Knight,” collected $1.37 billion globally. Batman will return
in some form, according to the studio. The challenge will be
rebooting the franchise without alienating hardcore fans.  In the latest Batman film, set eight years after “The Dark
Knight,” an aging Bruce Wayne walks with a cane because of his
many injuries and is facing financial ruin. He emerges from
retirement to fight Bane, a physically and intellectually
powerful villain who isolates Gotham City and orchestrates class
warfare between the haves and have-nots.  Anne Hathaway  stars at Catwoman and  Tom Hardy  as Bane.
 Morgan Freeman  and Joseph Gordon-Levitt co-star.  “Ice Age: Continental Drift,” the fourth film in the
animated series from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox, came in
second in its third weekend with $13.3 million in sales.  The latest installment follows Manny, Sid, Diego and Scrat
on an adventure after their continent is set adrift, caused by
Scrat’s pursuit of the acorn he’s been after for each of the
previous three films.  Ray Romano  and Denis Leary star. John Leguizamo and Queen Latifah co-star.  ‘The Watch’  “The Watch,” a R-rated sci-fi comedy from Twentieth
Century Fox, came in third in its debut with $13 million in
sales, Hollywood.com said.  The film follows four suburban dads who form a neighborhood
watch group to escape their boring lives and find themselves
defending Earth from aliens.  Ben Stiller , Vince Vaughn and Jonah Hill star in the
feature.  Seth Rogen , star of the comedies “Superbad” and
“Knocked Up,” co-wrote the movie. The picture was made for
about $68 million, according to Box Office Mojo, another film
researcher.  Finishing fourth was “Step Up: Revolution,” from  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s Summit division. It had weekend sales
of $11.8 million.  ‘Step Up’  The dance movie filmed in 3-D is the fourth installment in
the “Step Up” film series. Channing Tatum, who stars in the
male stripper flick “Magic Mike” this summer, led the cast in
the original film that was released in 2006.  This installment follows a young dancer, Emily, who moves
to Miami to become a professional dancer. Played by Kathryn
McCormick, Emily falls in love with Sean, the leader of a dance
crew, whose neighborhood is threatened by Emily’s father’s
development plans. Ryan Guzman plays Sean.  “Ted,” the R-rated comedy from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal
Pictures , came in fifth with sales of $7.35 million. It’s had
sales of $193.6 million in five weeks of release.  Domestic film sales this year have risen 5.5 percent to
$6.6 billion, with attendance up 7.9 percent. The amounts below
are based on actual ticket sales for July 27 and 28 and
estimates for today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Blessing in  New York  at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  