-- Aden Refinery Gets First Marib Crude Since Pipeline Shutdown
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2012-07-29T23:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/aden-refinery-gets-first-marib-crude-since-pipeline-shutdown.html
The Aden refinery in the port city
of Aden, in southern Yemen, received its first shipment of Marib
crude as the nation’s main oil pipeline started pumping again
for the first time in about a year.  A ship carrying 630,000 barrels of crude oil from Marib in
central Yemen arrived at the Red Sea port last night, the first
delivery from Marib since production there was stopped last
year, said Nasser Shaif, a spokesman for Aden Oil Refinery Co.
The oil was loaded July 28 at the port of Ras Eisa.  The refinery will start operating by mid-week, Shaif said.
The nation’s main oil pipeline, which carries crude oil from
Marib to the Ras Eisa port on the Red Sea, was shut down in
March 2011, reopened for a few weeks and then closed off again
in October after tribesmen pierced it several times.  Crude from Marib had been cut off from refineries and
markets because of at least 18 sabotage attacks on the pipeline
since March 2011. The production halt resulted in $4 billion in
lost revenue, the official Saba news agency reported July 3,
citing Hisham Sharaf, the country’s oil and minerals minister.  Yemen repaired the pipeline and this month resumed pumping
crude from  oil fields  in Marib to the Red Sea.  The Marib line connects four oil blocks with a combined
output capacity of about 120,000 barrels a day to the export
terminal at Ras Eisa, JBC Energy GmbH, a Vienna-based researcher
said in a note this month. Ras Eisa is the main terminal where
tankers load crude for shipment to Yemen’s biggest oil refinery,
in Aden.  Yemen borders  Saudi Arabia  and Oman at the southern tip of
the Arabian Peninsula. The country ranks ninth in the  Middle
East  for output of both oil and natural gas, according to data
from  BP Plc. (BP/)  It produced 264,000 barrels a day of crude in 2010,
the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  