-- Africa’s Top Media Company Looks Beyond Tencent, Mail.ru
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-07-30T16:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/africa-s-top-media-company-looks-beyond-tencent-mail-ru.html
As  Africa ’s largest media company,
with 5.6 million pay-TV subscribers today and a potential market
of hundreds of millions more,  Naspers Ltd. (NPN)  would appear to have
almost limitless room for growth. Investors, though, seem to
place little value on the South African company’s primary
publishing and broadcasting business.  Investments in  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  China ’s biggest
Internet company, and  Mail.ru (MAIL) , the largest Russian-language
Internet firm and a 1.5 percent owner of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , account
for almost 90 percent of Naspers’ $23 billion market value.  That calculation puts a price tag of about $2.7 billion on
Naspers’ media operations -- satellite and cable TV across
Africa, broadcast rights to English Premier League soccer, South
Africa’s biggest newspaper, and dozens of other businesses in
133 countries from  Argentina  to  Zambia .  Chief Executive Officer Koos Bekker said the valuation is
of little concern and that Naspers’ reliance on two outposts on
the Internet’s wild frontier poses no risk to the company.
“These investments look very much like the engine of pay-TV for
us,” Bekker said in a telephone interview from the company’s
headquarters in  Cape Town .  The company’s global Internet push and burgeoning African
television operations will account for a growing share of sales
and profits in coming years, said  David Ferguson , a research
analyst at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow.  Romanian Acquisition  Income from new businesses “will increase to reduce the
reliance” on Tencent and Mail.ru, said Ferguson, who has a buy
 recommendation  on Naspers and predicts the stock will reach 575
rand, or an increase of 24 percent from today’s closing price of
463.20 rand.  Naspers said today it agreed to buy a 70 percent stake in
in eMAG, a Romanian online retailer that reported 145 million
euros in 2011 revenue. CEO Bekker said he plans to complete 10
to 20  acquisitions  in the year through March 2013. “We see some
opportunities in the e-commerce space,” particularly in eastern
 Europe , he said.  Naspers spent 1.85 billion rand ($227 million) on four
major purchases and “various smaller” ones in the previous
year, Naspers said on June 27. It had 9.8 billion rand in cash
and cash equivalents at the end of March.  This year, Naspers has purchased  majority stakes  in
Netretail SRO, an online retail business in central Europe, and
Internet Mall AS, a Prague-based website selling household goods
such as washing machines. It also invested in Resolva.me, a
Brazilian site that offers ratings of dentists, lawyers and
other professionals.  $7 Monthly  Naspers, begun as a newspaper publisher in 1915, is rolling
out $7 a month pay-TV deals in underserved markets such as
Zambia, Kenya and  Nigeria . The company’s Daily Sun tabloid is
the largest-selling daily in  South Africa , while News24.com is
the most popular online news service in the country. Its
Supersport TV brand is the biggest sponsor of team sports in
Africa.  Naspers is “well-positioned to succeed” with its next
purchases because the company’s executives are prepared to help
acquired businesses, said Richard Tessendorf, an analyst at
Avior Research in Johannesburg.  “These guys have been doing this for 10 to 15 years now,”
said Tessendorf, who has a hold recommendation on Naspers
shares, which have jumped 29 percent this year.  Chief Investment Officer Mark Sorour is on the board of
Mail.ru, and Naspers advises Tencent through the Chinese
company’s board, Bekker said.  ‘Early Investors’  Naspers owns 34.2 percent of Shenzhen-based Tencent and
almost 29 percent of Mail.ru. Tencent shares have risen 48
percent this year, better than any company in the  Bloomberg
World Media Index (BWMEDA) , which includes Naspers and has jumped 18
percent in the period. Mail.ru has advanced 16 percent.  Shares of Naspers climbed 1.8 percent to 463.20 rand at the
5 p.m. close in Johannesburg, the highest level in five weeks.
Tencent rose 0.6 percent to HK$230.40 on the Hong Kong exchange.
Mail.ru advanced 7.4 percent to $30.07 in  London .  “We discovered both opportunities by being very early
investors in both markets and learning step by step,” Bekker
said. Naspers had previously made unsuccessful investments in
both China and  Russia , he said, “and learned a lot from those
failures, including how important good local management is.”  Naspers has a team looking globally for investment
possibilities and is approached regularly by entrepreneurs
seeking partners, Bekker said. Last year, the company evaluated
about 300 opportunities and agreed to about 30 deals, he said.  Disney, Springer  Naspers invested $191 million in Mail.ru in 2007 and its
holding is worth $1.7 billion. The Tencent stake, purchased 12
years ago, was worth $18.6 billion as of July 27. Tencent
contributed 11.4 billion rand to Naspers’ sales of 39.5 billion
rand in the year through March, and Mail.ru contributed 1.1
billion rand.  Naspers’ stock trades at 24 times estimated earnings. The
60 companies in the Bloomberg World Media Index trade at an
average of 15 times projected profit. The index includes  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Axel Springer AG (SPR) , which like Naspers have
publishing, television and Internet assets. Tencent trades at a
multiple of 27 times earnings.  David Reynolds, a London-based  analyst  at Jefferies,
cautions that Naspers’ African television operations may face
declining margins due to growing numbers of TV shows online.  “Naspers has become a derivative of Tencent, which begs
the question why don’t you just buy Tencent stock itself,”
Reynolds said.  Reynolds is the only analyst with a sell recommendation on
the stock among seven who have reported on Naspers in the last
month and shared their advice with Bloomberg. He initiated
coverage with a sell rating on Nov. 23, and the stock has risen
about 30 percent since then.  Bekker rejects the notion that shareholders see little
potential in Naspers’ core holdings. Investors typically value a
company’s shares in other corporations at about 70 percent of
their listed price, he said. “In this thinking,” Bekker said,
“our Mail and Tencent stakes jointly will then be worth about
half our market cap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   Kwong11@bloomberg.net  