-- Apple Talks With Twitter Said to End Without Investment
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-07-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/apple-talks-with-twitter-said-to-end-without-investment.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  isn’t currently in talks
with Twitter Inc. about investing in the operator of a micro-
blogging service, according to two people familiar with the
matter.  The companies were in discussions more than a year ago and
talks ended without an agreement, said one of the people, who
asked not to be named because the deliberations were private.  The two held talks in recent months about Apple making an
investment in the hundreds of millions of dollars, the  New York 
Times reported on July 27. The deal would have valued Twitter at
more than $10 billion, the Times said.  Representatives from Cupertino, California-based Apple and
San Francisco-based Twitter declined to comment.  Twitter, while still smaller than online competitors Google
Inc. and Facebook Inc., expects to generate at least $1 billion
in sales in 2014, two people with knowledge of the matter have
said. Researchers at EMarketer Inc. have said that in 2014
Twitter advertising sales, which account for almost all its
revenue, will rise to $540 million from $139.5 million last
year. The closely held company doesn’t release sales figures.  Twitter has stepped up a campaign to induce marketers to
devote more of their advertising budgets to its service, which
lets users post messages of no more than 140 characters to
followers. Twitter, which unveiled its first advertising
offering in 2010, has recently expanded mobile-advertising
services.  Social Media  Apple’s latest version of the operating system for Mac
desktops and notebooks, called Mountain Lion, adds direct
support for Twitter, making it easier for users to share their
comments and content directly.  Apple’s profit and sales fell short of analysts’
projections for only the second time since 2003 as customers
held off on iPhone purchases while waiting for a new model to be
introduced later in the year.  Net income climbed 21 percent to $8.82 billion, or $9.32 a
share, in the period that ended June 30, Cupertino, California-
based Apple said in a statement July 24. Sales rose 23 percent
to $35 billion. Analysts had predicted profit of $10.37 a share
on revenue of $37.2 billion, the average of estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  While Apple outgrew its closest technology-industry peers,
the company’s sales climbed at the slowest pace since mid-2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  