-- Maruti Mulls Options to Keep Position: Corporate India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-07-30T05:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/maruti-mulls-options-to-maintain-no-1-position-corporate-india.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  is weighing
options to restore output of its most popular models as
recurring labor disputes at one of its plants threaten the
company’s lead in  Asia ’s third-largest car market.  The next two to three weeks will be crucial for the
automaker as it decides if it needs to shift manufacturing to
its other plant in Gurgaon after rioting on July 18 shuttered
its Manesar facility, Chairman R.C. Bhargava said in a telephone
interview on July 28. Violence that erupted this month resulted
in the death of a manager at the factory, which accounts for
about 40 percent of Maruti’s output including  DZire  sedans and
 Swift  hatchbacks.  The unit of  Japan ’s  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  on July 28 reported
profit dropped for a fourth straight quarter -- even before this
month’s riot -- as it battled a weaker rupee, intensifying
competition and cooling demand amid the slowest pace of economic
expansion in almost a decade. Boosting output in Gurgaon is key
to stemming any erosion in market share and revive earnings
growth, according to Deepesh Rathore, managing director at IHS
Automotive in  New Delhi .  “Getting Manesar back on stream is definitely on top of
the agenda as the company is crippled at the moment,” said
Rathore. “But, that is easier said than done. Shifting
production to Gurgaon is an option because only the Swift and
DZire are really bringing in the numbers for Maruti.”  Dwindling Share  Maruti, which rolled out its first 800 mini hatchback from
its Gurgaon plant in the early 1980s, has seen its market share
dwindle to about 40 percent, from as high as 87 percent in 1998.
Closest rival  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  commands 19 percent, 15 years
after starting production in the southern city of  Chennai .  The current stoppage, the carmaker’s fourth in the past
year at the factory, underscores challenges faced by Chief
Executive Officer Shinzo Nakanishi in preventing further losses
to its share.  The  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  on July 10
cut its forecast for car sales growth in the South Asian nation
to a range of 9 percent to 11 percent for the year ending March
31, from an estimate of 10 percent to 12 percent given in April.  India’s economy  expanded 5.3 percent in the quarter through
March, the smallest gain since 2003 while the rupee slumped to a
record low amid a paralysis in policy making that has hurt
efforts to spur investment as a global recovery falters.  Exchange Rate  Net income  dropped 23 percent to 4.24 billion rupees ($77
million) in the three months ended June 30, the New Delhi-based
company said on July 28, missing the 4.9 billion-rupee median of
26  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales still jumped
27 percent to 105 billion rupees from 82.6 billion rupees.  A weaker rupee pushed import costs higher, making raw
materials 26 percent more expensive from a year ago, Maruti
said. Exports contribute 8 percent of total sales, while it
spends about 21 percent on importing components such as
electronics and diesel engine parts.  The local currency weakened about 20 percent against the
dollar and the yen in the 12 months ended June 30. In the
quarter to June 30, the local currency slumped 12 percent
against the yen and 8.6 percent versus the greenback.  Investors will now look for a more permanent solution to
the labor issues, said Basudeb Banerjee, an analyst at Quant
Broking Pvt. in Mumbai.  ‘Can’t Go On’  “It can’t go on like this,” said Banerjee. “Shifting
won’t come free of cost and that would mean the other plant will
be out of commission for a long time.”  The latest dispute began after a worker beat up a
supervisor on the shop floor. The union then prevented the
management from taking disciplinary action, blocking managers
from leaving the factory after work, Maruti Suzuki has said. The
company moved some of its production to Gurgaon the last time
workers went on strike at its Manesar plant in October.  The automaker signed an agreement in June to set up a
manufacturing facility in the western state of Gujarat.
Production will start in the financial year starting April 1,
2015, taking the combined capacity to 2 million units by the
financial year starting April 1, 2015, Maruti said in a
statement on June 2. The current capability is about 1.45
million units, according to its website.  “We can’t start production at Manesar until we think it is
safe for our workers,” said Chairman Bhargava, who announced a
lockout on July 21 and ruled out an early resumption. “The next
two to three weeks are crucial. Shifting to Gurgaon can’t be
done immediately and we will have to see what we can do.”  Diesel Preference  Maruti fell 0.3 percent to 1,110 rupees at 10:37 a.m. in
Mumbai. The stock has declined 9.5 percent since the riot,
compared with the benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) ’s 1 percent drop.  The automaker, 54 percent  owned  by Suzuki, sold 295,896
vehicles in the quarter to June 30, Maruti said. Sales of the
DZire sedan surged 87 percent, while that of Swift, Estilo and
Ritz hatchbacks rose a combined 31 percent. Sales of the SX4
sedan declined 74 percent in the quarter, according to a company
statement on July 2. Exports rose 6 percent to 32,632 units.  Sales of diesel-powered cars outpaced gasoline vehicles and
the company will offer what the customer wants, Bhargava said.  Should the Manesar plant stay shut for two months, it will
hurt Maruti’s revenue and profit, R. Murali Krishnan and Mitul Shah, analysts at Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. in Mumbai, wrote in a
research note last week.  “We see the current event at Maruti’s Manesar plant as a
structural impact on its business, as it is more related to
humanitarian and psychological aspects beyond the financial
implications,” wrote Krishnan and Shah, who rate the stock
underperform. “We don’t see light at the end of the tunnel, at
least for the time being.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  