-- Asian Refiners to Increase August Crude Imports From Angola
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-07-30T07:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/asian-refiners-to-increase-crude-imports-from-angola-in-august.html
Asian refiners will boost imports of
Angolan crude in August to the highest level in six months while
purchases from  Nigeria  will drop to a new low, a survey of seven
traders and an analysis of loading plans obtained by Bloomberg
News showed.  Refiners bought 1.31 million barrels a day from  Angola , the
highest since February, and oil from Nigeria will be reduced to
154,032 barrels a day, the lowest since at least August 2011,
when Bloomberg started compiling the data. In total, 59 cargoes
amounting to 1.76 million barrels a day will be shipped from
Angola, Nigeria, Republic of Congo,  Equatorial Guinea ,
 Democratic Republic  of Congo and Gabon, the survey showed.  Buyers in Asia can opt between Middle Eastern crude or
Atlantic Basin grades, and their choice normally depends on the
value of the lighter, sweet blends from the  North Sea  and West
Africa versus heavier, sour grades from  Saudi Arabia  and  Iran .
Lighter crude yields more lucrative products such as diesel and
gasoline. Sweet grades contain less sulfur than sour.  Compared with Nigerian grades, most Angolan crudes are
heavier, with higher yield of diesel. This type of crude is
“preferred in Asia because of the weakness in the
petrochemicals sector, which is lowering demand for naphtha,”
Max Bolhoff, senior consultant at KBC Energy Economics in
Walton-on-Thames,  England , said in an e-mailed response to
questions on July 26.  “Indian demand growth has recently been biased toward
diesel because the diesel price remains under government control
while gasoline is deregulated, so diesel is now much cheaper
than gasoline, and car buyers have been switching to diesel cars
at a rapid pace,” Bolhoff said.  Nigerian benchmark Qua Iboe dropped to a premium of 99
cents a barrel more than Dated Brent on July 13, the lowest in
more than two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
is at $1.14 a barrel more than the benchmark today.  Chinese Demand  Refiners in  China  bought 34 cargoes, the most in three
months, compared with 27 for July, the survey showed. China
International United Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as
Unipec, bought 25 shipments, the highest since February.  India  will increase imports of West African crude to 17
cargoes in August, five more than this month, the survey showed.
The country’s imports of Nigerian crude will drop to four
shipments, the least since September, while its purchases from
Angola reached eight lots, surpassing Nigeria for the first time
in at least 13 months.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , which owns the world’s largest
refining complex, will boost its imports to eight cargoes next
month, the most since at least August 2011, the survey showed.  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, bought
seven shipments, one more than July,  according to the survey.  Taiwan’s state-owned CPC Corp. purchased five shipments of
Angolan crude, one less than this month, the survey showed.  Brent-Dubai Spread  The  Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps , which measures the
European benchmark against the Persian Gulf grade, averaged
$2.47 in June, compared with $3.60 in May and $3.77 in April,
according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd. The spread fell
to a 22-month low of $1.38 a barrel on June 21. Traders make
more profit from shipping crudes from  Europe  or West Africa to
 Asia  when the spread between the two contracts shrinks.  Asian imports of West African crude for July were revised
to 1.41 million barrels a day after one cargo each from Gabon
and Nigeria were added, the survey showed.  Nigeria will export 2.27 million barrels a day of crude
next month while Angola will ship 1.83 million barrels,
Bloomberg calculations based on loading programs showed.  The following tables show details of planned Asian imports.
Most cargoes are for 950,000 to 1 million barrels. All the
volumes are in barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  