-- Tate Visitors Meet Chatty Strangers at Unilever Series: Review
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-07-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/tate-visitors-meet-chatty-strangers-at-unilever-series-review.html
Over the years, the Unilever Series
at  Tate Modern  has taken many forms. Light, sound, film, slides,
an enormous crack in the floor, an alarming black void, we’ve
seen it all.  Yet the new piece by Tino Sehgal, “These Associations,”
is a novelty. His medium is people, and his aim is to create
social situations. It is, if you’re a traditionally British sort
of person, rather embarrassing.  The 36-year-old Anglo-German artist has trained crowds of
volunteers who occupy the vast spaces of the Turbine Hall. But
as they’re dressed normally, it’s hard at first to pick them
out. The clue is that they behave unlike the rest of the  London 
museum’s visitors, more like members of a club or cult.  When I first arrived in the Turbine Hall they weren’t in
evidence. Then I spotted them sprinting down from the other end
of the vast space. At other times, they milled around in one
area, muttered, chanted and wove in and out of the crowds, as if
playing some unfamiliar game.  At intervals, one will come up to an ordinary visitor and
begin an involved narrative. These stories are apparently
genuine memories of some person or memory that made an
impression on them, elicited by the artist through open-ended
questions.  One-Eyed Acquaintance  While wandering around, I heard about one young woman’s
grandmother who had felt safe in a certain part of her house
during World War II. Another woman told me about an acquaintance
who had only one eye but managed fine, which impressed her.  On both occasions, when they finished, the storyteller
smiled enigmatically and went off to join colleagues running
around, chanting, etc.  In other words, “These Associations” is like being at a
baffling party where everyone else seems to know each other and
total strangers keep telling you intimate things about
themselves, a propos of nothing.  Enjoyable? As an effort to put performance art in a
mainstream art museum, I preferred  Martin Creed ’s piece at Tate
Britain in 2008, which involved sprinters racing through the
center of the gallery. That was more visual, because it was much
clearer what was going on. This is confusing, which admittedly
may be the point: It seems it’s all about belonging, or not
belonging, to a social group.  Perplexing Tanks  It wasn’t terribly clear either what was happening next
door in the newly opened Tanks, the first phase of Tate Modern’s
current 215 million pound ($338 million) expansion project.  Once an area of oil storage in the power station from which
Tate Modern was created, the Tanks -- as remodeled by the
architects Herzog & de Meuron -- have an ambience that’s both
grand and grim. The mood is somewhere between the interior of
Gaudi’s Sagrada Familia in Barcelona and an underground car
park.  The Tanks are intended for performance art, and are holding
a 15-week festival (through Oct. 28).  When I dropped in, the largest space was hosting an open
rehearsal for a piece by the Japanese artist Ei Arakawa. This
was as desultory as any theatrical rehearsal; several people
were doing something with a large piece of cloth while images
were displayed on a screen.  There’s a basic problem with performances in art galleries:
They usually take place at a set time, in front of an audience.
That’s why they’re so tricky to present in museums, which have
evolved to display visible objects, not transitory actions. I
wasn’t convinced that Tate has solved that conundrum.  “These Associations” is at Tate Modern, London, through
Oct. 28. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk/ .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Craig
Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford, in London, at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 