-- Aussie Dollar Falls From 4-Month High Before Europe Data
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-07-30T06:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/aussie-touches-4-month-high-amid-stimulus-speculation.html
Australia’s dollar slid from the
highest level in four months before reports that may show the
euro area’s deepening debt crisis is curbing prospects for
growth, sapping demand for higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie weakened versus the yen, halting a
three-day advance, before a euro-region  consumer confidence 
report today and unemployment data tomorrow. European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  and Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann will hold talks in the coming days, two central bank
officials said. The  Federal Reserve ’s rate-setting committee
begins a two-day meeting tomorrow, while ECB officials gather
for a policy decision on Aug. 2.  “There is room for disappointment this week, and the real
key is what’s happening in  Europe ,” said Greg Gibbs, a senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
Singapore. “It may see the Aussie come under a little bit of
pressure.”  The Australian dollar fell 0.1 percent to $1.0469 as of
4:11 p.m. in Sydney, having earlier climbed as much as 0.1
percent to $1.0497, the strongest since March 27. The Aussie
fell 0.3 percent to 82.06 yen after rising 2.9 percent in the
past three days.  New Zealand ’s currency bought 80.85 U.S. cents, 0.1 percent
lower than last week’s close. It earlier rose to 81.13 cents,
the highest since May 2. The so-called kiwi declined 0.3 percent
to 63.36 yen.  Australia’s 10-year government bond yield climbed as much
as 0.18 percentage point to 3.19 percent, the highest level
since July 4. New Zealand’s two-year  swap rate , a fixed payment
made to receive floating rates, touched 2.82 percent, a level
last surpassed on July 5.  Confidence, Unemployment  A final reading for an index of  household sentiment  in the
 euro zone  will probably show the gauge dropped to minus 21.6
this month from minus 19.8 in June, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists before the
European Commission releases its report today. That would be the
lowest since August 2009 and would match the initial estimate on
July 23. Figures tomorrow may show the euro-area  jobless rate 
climbed to a record 11.2 percent last month, a separate poll
indicated.  The ECB’s Draghi is trying to build consensus among
governments and central bankers for a plan to ease borrowing
costs in Spain and Italy before euro-region policy makers
convene this week. He meets with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in Frankfurt today, after pledging last week to do
whatever it takes to preserve the euro.  While Fed officials refrained from introducing a third
round of asset purchases at their session last month, central
bank Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated this month that it’s an
option.  Risk Appetite  “Expectations of policy easing are producing risk appetite
for the kiwi and the Aussie,” said  Mike Jones , a currency
strategist at  Bank of New Zealand  in Wellington. “We’re back in
a risk-on sort of environment.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares climbed 1 percent.  The Aussie has advanced versus all of its major peers this
month, rising 2.2 percent against the dollar and gaining 0.4
percent versus the yen. The kiwi has added 0.9 percent against
its U.S. counterpart since June 30 and lost 0.9 percent versus
 Japan ’s currency.  Sales of newly built homes in  Australia  rose for a third
straight month in June, according to a report today by the
Housing Industry Association, citing a survey of the nation’s
largest builders. In New Zealand, building  approvals  rebounded
in June after declining in the previous two months, according to
data from the country’s statistics office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  