-- Banking Union Is Last Gambit to Save Euro Dream
-- B y   L u i g i   Z i n g a l e s
-- 2012-07-29T22:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/banking-union-is-last-gambit-to-save-euro-dream.html
The euro crisis isn’t  Angela Merkel ’s fault.  The real culprits are the founding fathers --  Francois Mitterrand ,  Helmut Kohl , Jacques Delors or  Romano Prodi  -- who
created a common currency based on poor economics and worse
politics. They knew their brainchild was flawed, and bet that
future crises would force it to evolve. Unfortunately, they
willfully ignored the dysfunction of Europe’s political
structures, which allow Luxembourg, a country with fewer
inhabitants than Tucson,  Arizona , to veto any communal decision.  As the impending default of the  Spanish regions  amply
demonstrates, a fiscal union without a transfer of political
powers to a central authority is pure folly. Yet no European
country is willing to relinquish its sovereignty; this is
particularly true of those that have proved most irresponsible.  The euro’s founders designed this game of chicken on
purpose, hoping that in a crisis either the periphery countries
would blink and relinquish their sovereignty or  Germany  would
cave and open its coffers.  Beyond their willingness to ignore the risks inherent in
playing chicken, the euro founders didn’t take into account that
even good outcomes of this game could be disastrous. On the one
hand, without a transfer of powers, a German rescue would only
postpone the disaster. On the other, a transfer of power under
duress would fuel such deep national resentment that the idea of
 Europe  would be destroyed for at least a generation.  Bright Spot  Still, there remains one bright spot amid the gloom. A
European banking union would provide a litmus test of the only
viable long-term solution for Europe -- a quid pro quo between
financial rescue and transfer of power. The power to be
transferred -- the authority to supervise major banks -- isn’t
negligible. Regulators, especially in southern Europe, have been
known to turn a blind eye to politically affiliated national
banks. Relinquishing this prerogative would be a serious loss
for local politicians. That is the reason why such a transfer
would be no picnic. The devil, as usual, will be in the details.  The first important consideration is the way the bank
supervisory authority will be established within the  European
Central Bank . Would it respond directly to the Governing
Council, which is made up of the 17 national central bankers and
the six members of the Executive Board? Such a large
representative body is ill-suited to making difficult political
decisions. The Executive Board is of more appropriate size, but
the largest countries tend to dominate it. The danger is that
the board would be tough-minded only with banks of the smaller
countries, which don’t always have an advocate.  The best solution is for the Governing Council to appoint a
head of supervision who will oversee and decide all the cases,
except the ones for his or her own country; those decisions
would be made by the No. 2 (from a different country).  The second important detail is how European insurance
should cover a country’s exit from the euro. The currency’s
founders omitted such a contingency from any treaty, hoping to
make it impossible. Today, however, this possibility is on the
table and  deposit insurance  should be in place to deal with it.  What would happen to Greek bank depositors if  Greece (ETE)  were
to leave the euro? If the answer is that they would lose their
coverage, then the insurance would be unable to prevent a run
because Greeks wouldn’t want their savings redenominated in
drachmas. If the answer is that the deposits would be insured in
euros, there is a risk of moral hazard by subsidizing a Greek
exit.  Unconditional Insurance  The solution is unconditional insurance, with the
sovereign, senior debt first in line for a clawback if the
country leaves the euro. In this way, the insurance would
appease fears of an exit, but wouldn’t risk subsidizing it,
because the sovereign would still have to pay at least the
insurance costs.  The vision of a Europe without nations, with nothing to
kill or die for, is very valuable. Although imagining it isn’t
hard to do, building it is. By stating the vision, the euro’s
fathers claimed all the glory. The difficult details were left
to their successors, who must now either make good on Europe’s
promise or recognize that this wonderful project was premature
and try to unwind it in the least costly way.  ( Luigi Zingales  is a professor of entrepreneurship and
finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business
and a contributor to  Business Class . He is the author of “A
Capitalism for the People: Recapturing the Lost Genius of
American Prosperity.” The opinions expressed are his own.)
Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  France ’s  misguided
transaction tax  and on how to  improve the farm bill ; William D.
Cohan on Wall Street’s  arbitration system ;  Noah Feldman  on the
 NCAA’s unconvincing sanctions ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  rating U.S.
presidents ; Raymond Bonner on the  FDA’s immoral policy  on
lethal-injection drugs.  To contact the writer of this article:
Luigi Zingales at  Luigi.Zingales@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  