-- Bayreuth’s Nazi Past Resurfaces in Exhibition, Casting Choices
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-07-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/bayreuth-s-nazi-past-resurfaces-in-exhibition-casting-choices.html
Jewish musicians who were
persecuted, exiled, deported and in some cases, murdered, are
remembered in an exhibition called  “Verstummte Stimmen” 
(Silenced Voices) at the  Bayreuth Festival  this year.  The biographies of 53 musicians who performed at Bayreuth
before World War II -- and there are many who were barred -- are
described on boards in the festival theater park, where visitors
in shimmering gowns and dinner suits lingered to read them
during the long intervals of “Tristan and Isolde.”  “Silenced Voices” is a traveling exhibition that has been
on the road since 2006, with stops in Hamburg, Berlin and
Dresden. Yet nowhere does it resonate as much as in Bayreuth,
the last venue. Recent developments -- the sudden departure of a
baritone because of a swastika tattoo -- remind us of that.  Richard Wagner , who founded the festival in his purpose-
built Bayreuth theater, wrote in a racist essay that Jews were
contributing to the “decay” of German culture. His wife
Cosima, who led the festival after his death, had a policy of
not casting Jews unless absolutely unavoidable.  In practice, that meant Jews were employed only in
“demonic” roles -- such as the dwarf Alberich in the “Ring”
cycle -- or when there was no alternative. Cosima’s son
Siegfried, who took over as director of the festival in 1907,
perpetuated his mother’s anti-Semitic casting policies.  Singing Idols  Some Jewish singers were such public idols that Bayreuth
couldn’t afford to ignore them -- Friedrich Schorr, for example,
considered by many the best Wagner baritone of the 20th century.  Schorr sang Wotan in Wagner’s “Ring” at Bayreuth from
1925 to 1931. His participation prompted  Adolf Hitler  to cancel
his visit to Bayreuth in 1927. Winifred Wagner, Siegfried’s
British wife and a close friend of Hitler, recalled the Nazi
leader saying it was unbearable that “a member of the race that
is destroying us politically, morally and artistically” should
take the role of the king of the Germanic gods.  The baritone escaped to the U.S. in 1938, where he notched
up 356 performances at the New York Met.  Not all the singers were so fortunate: Henriette Gottlieb,
a soprano who sang at Bayreuth from 1927 to 1930, died in the
ghetto at Lodz in 1942.  Dark Legacy  The Bayreuth Festival is still struggling with its dark
legacy, perhaps not surprisingly, given that the same family has
been in charge since the 19th century.  In a sign of how sensitive the past remains, the Russian
bass-baritone Yevgeny Nikitin, scheduled to sing the title role
in a new production of “The Flying Dutchman,” bowed out four
days before the premiere in an uproar over the swastika tattoo
he had done on his chest as a teenager in a heavy metal band.  He has since covered it over with a star design, yet felt
compelled to drop out of Bayreuth after German television showed
archive footage of him playing the drums, bare-torsoed.  In a statement published on the Bayreuth Festival website,
Nikitin said he regretted the taboo tattoo. “I was not aware of
the extent to which these signs and symbols can cause confusion
and offense, particularly in the context of Bayreuth and the
history of the festival,” he said.  The current directors of the festival, Richard Wagner’s
great-granddaughters Eva Wagner-Pasquier and Katharina Wagner,
were keen to stress at a news conference before the premiere
that the decision was Nikitin’s alone. It was clear they hadn’t
done much to persuade him to stay. When Wagner-Pasquier was
asked whether he would be invited to sing in Bayreuth on a
future occasion, she declined to respond.  Youthful Errors  It seemed disingenuous to attribute sole responsibility for
the sudden departure to Nikitin. After all, he is not canceling
engagements in Munich and  New York , and no one is suggesting he
should. This unfortunate incident had everything to do with
Bayreuth and little to do with Nikitin’s youthful errors.  There have been plenty of attempts to confront Bayreuth’s
Nazi past on stage: director Stefan Herheim’s “Parsifal,”
showing six times this festival, has swastika banners and goose-
stepping SS officers.  Yet the Wagner family could take further practical steps to
help address past wrongs, said Hannes Heer, the curator of
“Silenced Voices.” While it was a “major gesture” to allow
the exhibition on the festival theater grounds, Heer said he
would have liked better access to the family archives.  Permanent Home  Katharina Wagner told the pre-opening news conference that
she would support a permanent home in Bayreuth for the
exhibition, which she deems important, though she said it would
be a decision for the town authorities. She and her half-sister
Eva Wagner-Pasquier have handed over all the documents they own
-- the files of their father, Wolfgang Wagner -- to two
historians, she said.  These are not the most interesting and historically
important of the family documents, Heer said in an interview at
a cafe on Bayreuth’s market square.  The archives of Siegfried Wagner and his wife Winifred --
who remained an admirer of Hitler until her death in 1980 -- are
in the hands of a separate branch of the family which refuses to
unlock them for research, the historian said.  “They argue that these are private family files,” Heer
said. “But this is German history.”  “Silenced Voices: The Expulsion of the Jews From the
Opera, 1933-1945” is at the Bayreuth Festival and the Neues
Rathaus (Bayreuth town hall) through Oct. 14.  The Bayreuth Festival runs through Aug. 28. For more
information, see  http://www.bayreuther-festspiele.de   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 