-- Brad Pitt, Angelina Seduce With 50 Shades of Pink
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-07-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/brad-pitt-angelina-seduce-with-50-shades-of-pink.html
Dry pink wines have been a fad, a
craze, a global trend and now they’ve settled into what everyone
drinks in summer, and not just at the beach.  My favorites come from France’s Provence, where drinking
pink has a 2,000-year history.  With silky textures, vivid aromas of strawberry and
fragrant white flowers, and tangy chalky-spicy flavors, most are
meant to be drunk young and cost less than $20.  Yet after sampling 15 primo examples at a recent lunch at
 New York ’s Michelin three-star Eleven Madison Park, I realize
Provencal roses can be even more seductive and serious than I
thought.  Their allure starts before you even take a sip.  Resting in ice buckets on the bar, clear glass bottles show
off wine colors that range from shades of pale blush to light
copper-pink to deep salmon to almost rosy.  Sadly, with wine, “serious” usually means expensive.  The complex roses I favor among the aperitifs are not
cheap. Pale, mint-scented 2011 Domaine Saint Andre de Figuiere
Confidentielle costs $34. Its sleek bottle shape reminds me of
pricey Krug champagne, which is the point.  Brad Pitt  The $27 price tag for 2011  Chateau Miraval   Pink Floyd  pays
for bling as well as the taste of wild strawberries; the wine
comes from the 1,000-acre estate owned by  Brad Pitt  and  Angelina
Jolie  in Provence.  The most impressive wine of the day is the tantalizing,
delicate 2010  Caves d’Esclans Les Clans , with a price ($70) to
match owner Sacha Lichine’s ambitions.  After selling Bordeaux Chateau Prieure-Lichine, he put his
money into a Provence estate, aiming to convince the world that
pink wine can be just as great as Bordeaux or Burgundy.  Lichine hired Patrick Leon, the retired managing director
of Chateau Mouton Rothschild, and now offers four roses,
including two single-vineyard cuvees: big, structured  Garrus 
($100) and Les Clans. The 2011 Les Clans, aged in new and older
barrels, manages to balance both delicacy and richness.  Rose’s subtle, savory nuances are surprisingly food
friendly.  Saint Tropez  The zesty Chateau de Pampelonne from Saint Tropez ($20)
pairs much better than a white with rich Balik salmon and pale
cucumber laced with salty trout roe and bagel crumbs.  Round, herb-and-mineral-flavored 2011  Chateau Paradis 
($25), a grenache, syrah, and cabernet blend from organic
vineyards, is a superior partner to a dish of rich halibut
garnished with earthy chanterelle mushrooms than either a white
or red.  I’ve found Provencal roses go well with Indian curries,
sushi, spicy Szechuan, tacos, tomato salad, barbecue, and
grilled tuna.  But they don’t go with sweet desserts. The fascinating,
pale orange 2010 Clos Cibonne Cuvee Tradition ($25), made from
ancient grape tibouren, is terrific by itself -- and a disaster
with intense chocolate caramel tart and salted caramel ice
cream.  Over lunch, Francois Millo, the director of the
 CIVP/Provence Wine Council , reveals some startling figures.
Almost 90 percent of the region’s wines are pink. After eight
years of growth, exports to the U.S. were up 62 percent in 2011
over 2010. In  France , where wine consumption is dropping, rose
outsells white wine -- nine out of 10 drinkers buy pink.  Unique Terroir  “What makes Provence roses unique,” Millo says, pointing
to the Mediterranean coastline on a map, “is the region’s
terroir.” He ticks off the sun, influence of the sea, dry
mistral wind, marked differences of day and night temperatures,
and then shares his theory about rose’s appeal.  “It isn’t formal,” Millo says. “We’ve enclosed red wine
in a series of rules. Rose has kept its freedom.”  The region still produces plenty of pink plonk, but new
ideas, such as night harvesting to guard fruit, delicacy and
acidity, have pushed quality of the best higher than ever.  While cheap, industrial roses mix red and white wine to get
to pink, that’s not permitted in Provence. Juice from red grapes
like cinsault, grenache, syrah, mourvedre,  cabernet sauvignon 
and the rare tibouren macerate briefly with the skins to pick up
color and tannin.  Rose’s growing fan base has spread to Russia and  Brazil ,
but not yet to  China .  Schmoozing China  Lichine, who moved to  Asia  in 2010, is trying to change
that. During last year’s  Hong Kong International Wine & Spirits
Fair , he was schmoozing a Chinese distributor when I stopped by
the Caves d’Esclans booth.  “Rose is not popular yet, but has great potential,” said
Jacky Zhao, general manager of Beijing’s Zhong-Hai Sheng Yang
Trade Co., Ltd.  In May, Lichine launched his inexpensive Whispering Angel
cuvee ($20) at Beijing’s Maison Boulud restaurant. Pink-clad
women tickled attendees with giant pink feathers as a singer
crooned “Dream a little dream of me.”  Meanwhile, I’m dreaming of a terrace by the blue
Mediterranean and another rose to transport me there.  One of my favorites,  Domaine Tempier , wasn’t at the lunch.
Luckily, Michael Madrigale, head sommelier at New York’s Bar
Boulud, will be pouring glasses of the 2011 from a magnum on
Tuesday night. How can I resist?  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books and  Peter
Rainer  on  movies .  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 