-- British Olympic Chief Calls for Seats to Be Resold If Empty
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-07-30T02:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/british-olympic-boss-calls-for-empty-seats-to-be-given-away.html
Vacant seats at London Olympics
venues should be resold if they are still empty 30 minutes after
events start, British Olympic Association Chairman Colin Moynihan said.  Moynihan was responding to reports in the U.K. media about
banks of empty seats at events that British sports fans had been
unable to get tickets for. U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt 
has started an inquiry into the gaps.  “There must be a way where seats are empty half an hour
into an event that they can be filled by sports fanatics -- we
owe it to the teams and we owe it to the country,” Moynihan
told reporters at the Olympic Park yesterday. “The organizers
can pretty quickly know who has acquired those seats and go to
those people, especially if they’re sponsors, and say ‘Are those
seats going to be taken?’”  Sebastian Coe, chairman of the London Organizing Committee,
said it was too early in the games to carry out his threat to
“name and shame” sponsors who failed to use their seats.
Moynihan’s proposal would cause more difficulties than it would
resolve, he said.  Coe said there will be fewer empty seats as the games
progress. Most of the vacant seats so far are a result of people
accredited by national Olympic committees who are still working
out where they need to be and when, Coe told reporters.  Seats have been filled by students and teachers from
boroughs around the Olympic venues, military personnel who are
guarding the games and fans upgraded from cheaper areas of the
venues, Coe said. Seats were sold two days ago for yesterday’s
gymnastics events at North Greenwich Arena, he said.  ‘Naming and Shaming’  “I’m not sure if naming and shaming is what we’re into at
the moment,” Coe told reporters. “Let’s put this in
perspective, those venues are packed to the gunwales, there are
tens of thousands of people within the accredited family who are
trying to figure out what their day looks like. This is not
going to be an issue right the way through the games.”  The problem may not be caused by sponsors, Coe said, and
Hunt, who told the  BBC  late last night that they were
responsible, today revised his position to say the games’
sponsors are using their tickets. About eight percent of tickets
went to corporate partners, a spokeswoman for Hunt’s department
said yesterday in an emailed statement.  “LOCOG will keep the situation under constant review and
we will be in close touch with them on this issue,” the
statement said. “Everything possible will be done to make empty
seats available to the public.”  Moynihan said the boost given to British competitors in
rowing events two days ago showed the benefit of packing venues
with home fans.  “It worked so well at the rowing and it had such a
positive effect on the squad,” he said. “Where there are
blocks of unused seats it’s important we find ways of getting
the British public into them to support team GB.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  