-- CBS to Text ‘Good Wife’ Fans When NFL Delays Sunday Show
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-07-29T18:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/cbs-to-text-good-wife-fans-when-nfl-delays-sunday-show.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner of the most-watched
U.S. broadcast network, will use  text messages  and will send
notifications through  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. to alert
viewers when its shows are delayed by Sunday football games that
are running long.  “We will do everything possible to let the audience know
when our shows will be on later,” Nina Tassler, who oversees
CBS Entertainment, said today at a conference of television
critics in Beverly Hills, California.  National Football League  games are important to CBS and
draw viewers to prime-time shows later in the evening, Tassler
said. The network is seeking to retain regular viewers of its
programming when games run longer than scheduled, sometimes by
as much as 17 minutes.  Football may help CBS achieve a ratings victory in total
audience and viewers ages 18 to 49, a group targeted by
advertisers, for the first time in two decades. The network
hosts Super Bowl XLVII in February and a crucial prime-time
National Football League playoff game, promising two of the
largest audiences of 2013.  While the NFL may deliver ratings victories for CBS this
year, the network wouldn’t be in that position without its line-
up of shows including “NCIS,” “Big Bang Theory” and “The
Good Wife,” Tassler said.  “Scripted series have been spectacularly successful for
us,” Tassler said. “It’s not all football ratings.”  CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , gained 2.9
percent to $33.57 on July 27 in  New York . The stock has climbed
24 percent this year.  New Shows  The network is adding four scripted programs to its line-up
in the television season starting in September, fewest of the
major broadcast networks. CBS plans to air new dramas
“Elementary,” “Vegas” and Made in Jersey’’ and the comedy
“Partners.”  CBS collected about $2.7 billion in advertising commitments
ahead of the new season at a rate increase of about 10 percent,
a person with knowledge of the matter said on June 12. CBS sold
about 78 percent of its inventory, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  