-- Cheney Says McCain Made ‘Mistake’ Picking Sarah Palin
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-07-29T16:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/cheney-says-mccain-made-mistake-picking-sarah-palin.html
Former Vice President  Dick Cheney 
said it was “a mistake” for  Arizona  Senator  John McCain  to
pick Sarah Palin as his vice-presidential running mate in 2008.  Cheney headed  George W. Bush ’s vice-presidential search in
2000 before becoming Bush’s running mate. Of the Republican
selection process four years ago that led to Palin, he said,
“That one I don’t think was well-handled.”  Palin hadn’t “passed that test” of readiness to serve as
president because her political experience was limited, Cheney
said in an interview with ABC News. The television network
showed portions of Cheney’s remarks today on its “This Week”
program. The full interview is to air July 30.  Cheney, 71, said demographic and political factors in the
selection process “are important issues, but they should never
be allowed to override that first proposition” of being ready
to serve as president.  “I think that was one of the problems McCain had,” Cheney
said.  Palin was “an attractive candidate” but the fact that
she’d served as Alaska governor for less than two years raised
questions about her “being ready to take over” as president,
Cheney said.  “I think that was a mistake,” he said.  Cheney said that it was “pretty important” that
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  handle his
selection process differently. Romney is expected to announce
his running mate before the party’s national convention Aug. 27-
30 in Tampa, Florida.  Two Lists  Cheney said that there are typically two lists of vice-
presidential possibilities -- a “big list” that includes
politicians who want to boost their standing at home and a
“small list” of hopefuls who are seriously vetted.  “The test to get on the small list has to be, ’Is this
person capable to be president of the  United States ?’ And that’s
usually a very, very short list,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey in Washington at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  