-- Chinese City Halts Waste Project After Thousands Protest
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-30T02:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/chinese-city-halts-plant-s-waste-project-after-thousands-protest.html
Authorities in eastern  China 
scrapped plans for a pipeline to discharge waste from a paper
mill into the sea after a protest by thousands of residents
turned violent.  The mayor of Nantong in Jiangsu province said on July 28
the project would be permanently canceled, a day after the vice
mayor of Qidong, a lower-level coastal city where the
demonstration took place, pledged to suspend construction of the
pipeline from a paper factory run by a venture of  Japan ’s Oji
Paper Co.  The unrest was the latest in a series of confrontations
between local governments and residents over pollution concerns
linked to industrial projects. Thousands of people in the
southwestern city of Shifang protested earlier this month over
the construction of a molybdenum copper plant, and demonstrators
in northeast China’s Dalian last year succeeded in getting a
chemical factory shuttered on environmental grounds, according
to reports by state media.  The Qidong protests “demonstrate that ordinary people’s
awareness of their rights has increased and they are more
willing to assert their rights,” Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct
professor of history at the  Chinese University  of Hong Kong,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It also demonstrates
more sophistication on the part of the authorities in handling
protests.”  Awareness Rising  Cases interpreted by the authorities as potentially “anti-
party or anti-government” would lead to a crackdown
“mercilessly and with a lot of force,” Lam said. “But if a
protest is regarded as basically economic and environmental in
nature, they are more willing to strike a deal.”  In a speech to leaders and officials of the ruling
Communist Party published by Xinhua on July 23, President  Hu Jintao  noted that people’s demands for a better life and
expectations for prompt solutions to prominent social problems
were increasing.  “Local leaders have the responsibility of giving local
residents full information about their governance,”  China Daily 
wrote in an editorial today. “A local government’s lack of
concern for the will of residents in its decision-making process
is dangerous, especially when people’s awareness of their rights
and interests is on the rise.”  The project was halted after demonstrators gathered in
Qidong, a city of more than 1 million people across the Yangtze
River from  Shanghai , to renew protests against the pipeline
which they said would pollute the sea, the official  Xinhua News
Agency  reported on July 28.  Police Clashes  The decision was announced by Zhang Guohua, the mayor of
Nantong, which administers Qidong, in a live televised broadcast
at around 11 a.m. local time, Xinhua said.  About 10,000 people joined the protest, in which computers,
desks and chairs in a government building were damaged, Japan’s
Asahi newspaper reported. Opponents gathered even after Qidong’s
vice mayor, Zhang Jianxin, announced the previous day the
project was suspended and pledged to listen to residents’
concerns.  The  Associated Press  said some protesters clashed with
police and turned a patrol car on its side. Hundreds of
officers, some in riot gear, arrived later in the day and took
up positions outside government offices, according to the AP
report.  Offices Ransacked  Calls to the Qidong public security bureau yesterday were
unanswered and an official who picked up the phone at the
Nantong bureau directed questions to the city’s propaganda
department. Cai Yunfei, the head of the department, couldn’t be
reached on his mobile phone yesterday.  Photographs and comments about the demonstrations were
posted on  Sina Corp. (SINA) ’s microblogging service Weibo on the
morning of July 28, showing offices of the Qidong government
ransacked, police cars overturned and clashes between police and
residents. By late afternoon, the material had been removed and
didn’t appear in searches for “Qidong.”  Residents had petitioned against construction of the
pipeline on the grounds that it would pollute a nearby fishery,
the state-owned  People’s Daily  reported on its website on July
27. The Shanghai Daily said there were also claims that
discharge from the mill could pollute Shanghai’s Qingcaosha
Reservoir at the mouth of the  Yangtze River .  Local residents had voiced concerns on the Internet “for
years” about environmental damage to the sea around Qidong, one
of the country’s four major fishing grounds,  Xinhua  said.  Worsening Pollution  The waste discharge pipeline targeted by the protesters is
linked to a paper mill operated by an Oji Paper venture. The
plant, in the Nantong Economic and Technological Development
Zone, involved total investment of $1.95 billion, and is the
group’s largest overseas investment, according to the company’s
Chinese-language website.  The pipeline is an auxiliary project of the plant and is
not carried out by Oji Paper’s joint venture, the Tokyo-based
company said in a  statement  on its Chinese website on July 27.
The Qidong plant has a “very strict” management system in
which water is treated inside the facility before being
discharged, the manufacturer said.  Concerns the nation’s rapid  economic growth  is damaging the
environment, worsening pollution and encouraging corruption are
prompting protests, strikes and riots across China. The growth
of the Internet and microblogs has made it more difficult for
the government to control the spread of information, and has
pushed authorities to respond to criticism and demonstrations.  Beijing’s Communist Party Secretary Guo Jinlong said on
July 27 the government must “seriously reflect” on the lessons
of the recent floods in the capital, after users of microblog
services accused the authorities of hiding the full death toll
and neglecting the city’s outdated sewer systems.  He spoke the same day the government raised to 77 from an
initial 37 its estimate of the number of people who died in
flooding from Beijing’s record July 21 rainstorms.  The authority’s slowness “left the general public enraged
and perplexed,” Xinhua said in a commentary.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  