-- Chinese ‘Patriotic’ Education Draws Protesters in Hong Kong
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-07-30T05:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/chinese-nationalistic-education-draws-protesters-in-hong-kong.html
Tens of thousands of parents,
students and social activists marched through  Hong Kong 
yesterday to oppose plans for Chinese national education lessons
in the city that detractors say will stifle independent thinking.  With many clad in black and white to symbolize the contrast
between right and wrong, and carrying placards stating “We
don’t need no thought control,” demonstrators protested
government plans to introduce the subject in state-run primary
schools in the city from September. The authorities intend to
extend the classes, which aim to foster Chinese identity, to
secondary schools from 2013 and phase in the lessons over three
years.  The rally took place less than a month after Leung Chun-
ying was inaugurated as the city’s chief executive. Government
talks with opponents to delay the new curriculum collapsed at
the weekend, the  South China Morning Post  reported in its Sunday
edition. Textbooks will give a pro-Communist Party account of
 China ’s history and political system, according to Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of history at the  Chinese University
of Hong Kong .  “This popular movement against patriotic education
reflects distrust of the C.Y. Leung administration,” Lam said
by phone yesterday before the rally. “This is really very crude
patriotic, nationalistic propaganda.”  Officially Autonomous  Leung, the city’s third ruler since it was handed back to
China, is implementing the education plan put into place by his
predecessor,  Donald Tsang . Hong Kong, a former British colony
that marked 15 years in July since its return to Chinese rule,
is officially autonomous except for matters of national defense
and diplomatic relations.  More than 90,000 people attended yesterday’s protests,
according to Andrew Shum of the Hong Kong Christian Institute
who helped arrange the demonstrations. Police estimate that
about 32,000 protesters were in the procession at its peak,
according to an e-mailed response to questions from the Police
Public Relations Branch today.  Mothers with strollers and fathers clutching toddlers’
hands gathered in temperatures that rose as high as 33 degrees
Celsius (91.4 degrees Fahrenheit) before marching to the
government’s offices with banners exhorting “Communist China,
leave them kids alone” and “Stop brainwashing us!”  Public Anxiety  “We are contesting a syllabus that just shows the positive
side of the People’s Republic of China,” said Yip Po Lam, an
organizer of the  Justice and Peace Commission  of the Hong Kong
Catholic Diocese, which also helped organize the demonstration.
“It does not facilitate independent thinking by students.”  Hong Kong’s League of  Social Democrats  and Civic Party both
ran stalls near the starting point of yesterday’s rally.  The education bureau will set up a committee to advise the
department during the three-year initiation period “to dispel
public anxiety” and “solicit more views from different
stakeholders,” the government said in a  statement  on its
website after yesterday’s protest.  Voters head to the polls on Sept. 9 to elect members of the
city’s Legislative Council.  Lawmakers have challenged Leung’s credibility as the
financial center’s leader after his home was found to have
illegal building structures and his development secretary
stepped down to address corruption allegations.  Alliance of Activists  An alliance of activists including the National Education
Parents’ Concern Group and  Scholarism , a student body, convened
the latest protest.  “The anger is not just from parents but from people from
all walks of life,” said Eva Chan, convener of the National
Education Parents’ Concern Group. The  curriculum  would cause
“brainwashing of young people,” she said by phone before the
demonstration.  One textbook explains how the Communist Party is a
progressive, united and effective ruler, comparing it with the
U.S. where a two-party system leads to eternal debates and
gridlock, said Lam of the  Chinese University  of Hong Kong. There
is no mention of the Cultural Revolution or the 1989 massacre in
 Tiananmen Square , according to Lam. “The level of crudity is
even worse than that of the textbooks you find in China,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  