-- China Adds Shooting, Diving Golds to Lead Olympics Medals
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-07-30T11:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/china-adds-olympic-golds-in-shooting-diving-at-london-games.html
China  added gold medals in shooting
and diving to lift its London Olympics total to six as U.S.
shooter Kimberly Rhode became the first American woman to win a
medal in an individual sport in five straight games.  Wenjun Guo, 28, took the women’s 10-meter air pistol title
yesterday, with compatriots Wu Minxia and He Zi taking gold in
the women’s synchronized 3-meter springboard diving. France won
the men’s 400-meter freestyle relay to hand the U.S. only its
third loss in the event. Women’s gymnastics individual all-round
world champion Jordyn Wieber of the U.S. failed to qualify for
the final.  The victories helped give China 12 total medals, one more
than the U.S. Italy has two golds, three silvers and two bronze
medals. Wu secured her third consecutive Olympic title in the
event after the Chinese pair led from the first to last dive.  “It is already a miracle what I have achieved,” said the
26-year-old Wu, whose early career was blighted by injuries.  Rhode, 33, set an Olympic record in winning the women’s
skeet shooting event, finishing with a final score of 99 after
setting a qualifying record with 74. Ning Wei of China won the
silver, while Danka Bartekova of  Slovakia  won a shootout with
Marina Belikova of  Russia  to take the bronze.  Wenjun had 488.1 points in the 10-meter air pistol.
 France ’s Celine Goberville got the silver by beating Ukraine’s
Olena Kostevych in a shootout after they tied with 486.6 points.
Wu and He, 21, finished ahead of the American team of Kelci
Bryant and Abigail Johnston, and Canada’s Jennifer Abel and
Emilie Heymans in the diving.  Swimming Records  U.S. swimmer Dana Vollmer, 24, won the women’s 100-meter
butterfly in a world record time of 55.98 seconds to beat the
mark set by Sweden’s Sarah Sjostrom in  Rome  in 2009.  “Everything went as I could have wanted,” Vollmer said.  South African Cameron van der Burgh, 24, set a world record
of 58.46 seconds to win the men’s 100-meter breaststroke.  Marianne Vos of the Netherlands out-sprinted Britain’s
Elizabeth Armitstead and Russia’s Olga Zabelinskaya in the
women’s cycling road race. Armitstead’s silver was the first
medal for the host nation.  The three riders led a breakaway and, with the main pack
unable to catch them, it became a fight between the trio for the
medals. Vos, 25, accelerated toward the line and Armitstead and
Zabelinskaya were unable to bridge the gap.  Gold medals will be awarded today in diving, fencing, judo,
shooting, weightlifting and men’s team artistic gymnastics. Four
swimming finals are also scheduled, including the men’s 200-
meter freestyle.  Radcliffe Out  Paula Radcliffe , holder of the women’s marathon world
record, will miss her chance to win an Olympic medal for Britain
after being  ruled out  with a foot injury. Britain will seek to
replace the 38-year-old with Freya Murray for the Aug. 5 race.  Kevin Durant  scored 22 points to lead the U.S. men’s
basketball team to a 98-71 victory over France in their opening
game.  Kevin Love  had 14 points and  Kobe Bryant  scored 10. Ali
Traore got 12 points and  Tony Parker  added 10 for France.  Nigeria defeated Tunisia 60-56 in the other Group A match,
while in Group B,  Brazil  held on to beat Australia 75-71 and
Spain defeated China 95-80. Russia beat Britain 95-75.  In men’s soccer, world and European champion Spain was
eliminated following a shock 1-0 loss to  Honduras .  Uzbek gymnast Luiza Galiulina was suspended after testing
positive for the banned drug furosemide in a urine sample given
on July 25, the  International Olympic Committee  said.  Drug Suspension  A final decision will be made about her punishment by the
disciplinary commission after the receipt of her backup testing
sample, the IOC said. She’s the second athlete since the games
started to be banned because of a failed drug test after
Albanian weightlifter Hysen Pulaku was suspended two days ago.  In other events in which medals were decided yesterday,
Lasha Shavdatuashvili of  Georgia  won the men’s 66-kilo judo,
North Korea’s Kum Ae An secured the gold in the women’s 52-kilo
category, and Kazakhstan’s Zulfiya Chinshanlo won the women’s
53kg weightlifting competition.  South Korea defeated China by one point in the women’s team
archery, with  Japan  taking bronze.  In the pool, France’s Camille Muffat, 22, won the women’s
400-meter freestyle in an Olympic record 4 minutes, 1.45 seconds,
ahead of the U.S.’s Allison Schmitt. Britain’s Rebecca Adlington,
a double winner in Beijing four years ago, won the bronze medal.
World record holder Federica Pellegrini of Italy, the only woman
to swim the event in less than 4 minutes, was fifth.  France Wins Relay  France’s team of Amaury Leveaux, Fabien Gilot, Clement
Lefert and Yannick Agnel, which started the race as a 7-1
outsider with bookmaker  William Hill Plc (WMH) , won the men’s 400-
meter freestyle relay by a margin of 0.45 seconds.  The Americans -- Nathan Adrian,  Michael Phelps , Cullen Jones and  Ryan Lochte  -- led until the last leg, when 20-year-
old Agnel outpaced Lochte to clinch the gold medal. Russia took
the bronze ahead of world champion Australia.  “I did my utmost and tried to hold on until Lochte
cracked,” Agnel told reporters.  At North Greenwich Arena, Wieber, 17, was topped by
American teammates Gabrielle Douglas and Alexandra Raisman for
the two berths in the final. Raisman, 18, scored 60.391, ahead
of 16-year-old Douglas’s 60.265 and Wieber’s 60.032.  “It is a bit of a disappointment,” Wieber said. “It has
always been a dream of mine to compete in the all-round final of
the Olympics. But I’m proud of Aly and Gabby and happy that they
reached the all-round and that I was able to help the team get
to the finals.”  Brazil Wins  Brazil advanced to the quarterfinals in the men’s soccer
tournament with a 3-1 victory against Belarus. Egypt and  New
Zealand  drew 1-1, while Mexico defeated Gabon 2-0.  Spain’s defeat to Honduras ended the nation’s bid to add
the Olympic gold medal to its World Cup and European
Championship titles.  In other matches, Senegal beat Uruguay 2-0 and Japan won 1-
0 against Morocco. South Korea defeated Switzerland 2-1 and
Britain defeated United Arab Emirates 3-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  