-- Euro Weakens Before ECB on Bond-Purchase Speculation
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-30T21:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/dollar-holds-3-day-drop-versus-euro-before-fed-meeting.html
The euro fell for the first time in
four days against the dollar amid speculation the  European
Central Bank  will expand its balance sheet to stem the rise of
the region’s sovereign-bond yields.  The 17-nation currency dropped from almost a two-week high
versus the yen even as Spanish bonds extended a rally before the
bank’s next policy decision on Aug. 2. ECB President  Mario
Draghi  pledged last week to do whatever it takes to preserve the
currency, suggesting policy makers may intervene in bond
markets. Sweden’s krona rallied as the economy expanded more
than analysts predicted.  “We’ve had the weekend to digest Draghi’s comments; the
euro is going to come under continued selling pressure, and any
further easing is going to viewed as euro-negative,” said
 Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in  New York  at Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. “The euro is considerably oversold at
this point, so you could see some profit-taking just ahead of
the decision.”  The euro dropped 0.5 percent to $1.2260 at 5 p.m. New York
time, after strengthening 1.4 percent last week. It was poised
for a 3.2 percent loss for July and a 5.4 percent drop for the
year. The single currency declined 0.9 percent to 95.85 yen
after climbing to 97.34 on July 27, the strongest level since
July 17. The yen gained 0.4 percent to 78.18 per dollar.  “You could see a challenge of $1.20 before the decision,
and I would expect going into the decision and shortly
thereafter you could get back to the $1.23 area,” Woolfolk
said. He expects the euro to weaken to $1.16 in coming months.  Volatility Rises  One-week implied volatility for euro-dollar options, which
signals the expected pace of currency swings, was at the highest
level since June 15, 12 percent. The year-to-date average is
10.2 percent.  “The euro is going to trade on speculation on whether the
ECB is going to be doing bond buying,” Steven Englander, head
of Group-of-10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York,
said in a radio interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene . “I’m on the euro-bullish side for at least this
week.”  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict the currency will
end 2012 at $1.23.  Spain ’s 10-year government  bond yields  traded at 6.61
percent after reaching a euro-era high of 7.75 percent July 25.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  earlier backed a commitment by
European leaders to defend the euro area, while failing to
mention its weakest link,  Greece . They issued a joint statement
after they held talks on the German North Sea island of Sylt
today.  Not Sufficient  While the ECB’s commitment to preserve the euro is
necessary, it’s not sufficient by itself to resolve the debt
crisis, Moody’s Investors Service said in a report.  “In both situations, where the ECB does more or less, you
see the euro lower,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency
strategist at Barclays Plc in New York. “In a world where the
ECB does less, the risks remain elevated and people will worry
about the potential for a breakup. We’re in the other world
where the ECB does more in terms of sovereign-bond purchases or
easing of policy. This is typically negative for the currency.”  The euro has weakened 3.4 percent in the past month, the
worst performer of the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose 0.2
percent and the yen gained 2.4 percent.  Krona Climbs  Sweden’s krona climbed as much as 1.7 percent to 8.3173
against the euro, its strongest since September 2000. The
currency rose for a fourth day against the dollar, gaining 1.2
percent to 6.7870 and touching 6.7842, the highest since May 4.  The Swedish  economy  grew 1.4 percent in the quarter through
June, after advancing a revised 0.9 percent the previous three
months, Stockholm-based  Statistics Sweden  said.  Brazil ’s real and  South Africa ’s rand were the biggest
losers among major currencies. The real slid 1 percent to 2.0411
per dollar, and the rand lost 0.5 percent to 8.2013 to the
greenback.  The dollar may extend its decline against the yen to its
weakest in five months should the U.S. currency breach its
lowest level from last week, according to UBS AG analysts citing
trading patterns.  Downside Skew  “The directional risk remains skewed to the downside” as
long as so-called resistance holds at 78.82 yen,  Richard Adcock ,
a London-based fixed-income technical strategist, wrote in an e-
mailed note to clients today. A break below last week’s low,
which was 77.94 yen on July 23, may open the way for the U.S.
currency to slip to 77.65 yen, Adcock wrote. Resistance is an
area on a chart where sell orders may be clustered.  Demand for the dollar was tempered before the  Federal
Reserve  starts a two-day meeting tomorrow amid speculation the
central bank will signal additional stimulus.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this month policy makers
are “looking for ways to address the weakness in the economy
should more action be needed to promote a sustained recovery in
the labor market.” While the central bank refrained from
introducing a third round of asset purchases at its June
meeting, Bernanke indicated it’s an option. It bought $2.3
trillion of securities from 2008 to 2011 to spur growth.  U.S. investors repatriated $48.9 billion from December to
May, the first time they brought assets home during a six-month
stretch since the period following the failure of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, according to Treasury Department
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. Inflows into funds that focus on
U.S. bonds more than doubled to $157 billion in the first six
months from $65 billion during the same period a year earlier,
while international bond investments were unchanged, according
to  TrimTabs Investment Research .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  