-- Dollar Repatriation First Since Lehman Evokes Post-LTCM Gain
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t ,   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-30T19:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/dollar-repatriation-first-since-lehman-evokes-post-ltcm-rally.html
Until about four months ago, JKMilne
Asset Management invested at least half the money in its global
fund outside the U.S. No more. With  Europe ’s debt crisis
intensifying, the  Fort Myers , Florida-based firm with $1.8
billion under management has all its money in dollars.  “It’s been a winning strategy,”  John Milne , chief
executive officer, said July 26 in a telephone interview.
“Given the magnitude of the problem, there was the realization
that there was a contagion possibility.”  Milne has plenty of company. U.S. investors repatriated
$48.9 billion from December to May, the first time they brought
assets home during a six-month stretch since the period
following the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008,
according to Treasury Department  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The
flows are among the biggest since 1999, after the collapse of
hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management LP boosted the  dollar  as
funds retreated from all but the world’s safest assets.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index  has risen 3.3
percent this year as investors moved cash into funds that focus
on U.S. bonds. Inflows more than doubled to $157 billion in the
first six months from $65 billion during the same period a year
earlier, while international bond investments were unchanged,
according to  TrimTabs Investment Research .  Dollar Rallies  The flows help explain why global financial institutions
from UBS AG to Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. expect the
dollar to strengthen by year-end as the  European debt crisis 
deepens and investors pile into the world’s reserve currency.  At 62.2 percent, the  share  of global foreign-exchange
reserves denominated in dollars is more than double the 24.9
percent for the second-place euro, according to International
Monetary Fund data. The percentage of dollar global reserves is
the highest since the third quarter of 2010, after falling to a
record 60.5 percent in mid-2011.  The euro’s share was the lowest since the third quarter in
2006. The category of “other currencies,” which excludes the
yen, dollar, euro, Swiss franc and British pound, shrank for the
first time since the start of 2009.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against the
euro, yen, pound, Canadian dollar, Swedish krona and Swiss
franc, climbed to a two-year high of 84.10 last week as Spanish
bond yields rose to records.  Draghi’s Pledge  The euro fell 0.5 percent to $1.2259 at 3:24 a.m. in  New
York . It gained 1.4 percent last week as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  pledged to support the sovereign  bond
market . The dollar dropped 0.3 percent to 78.16 yen today.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis prompted the 10 largest U.S.
money market funds to cut assets held in debt of euro-region
banks in June to 8 percent, a record low, from 31 percent in May
2011, according to a Fitch Ratings study released July 25.  “Fund managers in the U.S. at the moment are clearly again
more worried about what’s going on in the global outlook and
that’s why they’re stopping sending money abroad,” Mansoor Mohi-uddin, managing director of foreign-exchange strategy for
UBS in  Singapore , said in a July 25 interview.  UBS expects the dollar to strengthen to $1.15 versus the
euro and 85 yen by year-end.  Much of the money flowing to the U.S. is going into
 government bonds . Yields on five-, seven-, 10- and 30-year
Treasuries fell to record lows last week. The benchmark 10-year
yield dropped to as  low  as 1.379 percent on July 25.  ‘Not Cheap’  “Certainly Treasuries are not cheap, but it’s a hedge
against bad things,” said Milne, who favors the  government
securities  along with U.S. investment-grade corporate bonds and
mortgages. With the spreading European debt turmoil, “there no
longer seemed to be buying opportunities,” he said. “The bad
news was no longer a green light.”  The rally in the dollar sparked by Europe’s debt crisis
reminds investors of the periods after the collapse of Lehman
and the demise of Greenwich, Connecticut-based LTCM. The Dollar
Index rallied more than 18 percent from the beginning of 1997
through mid-1999 and 27 percent between the low in 2008 and
2009’s high.  LTCM, led by John Meriwether, roiled global markets when it
collapsed in 1998 after losing more than 90 percent of its $4.8
billion of assets in the weeks following  Russia ’s currency
devaluation and bond default. The  Federal Reserve  orchestrated a
$3.6 billion bailout by the fund’s 14 banks to calm fears that
the firm’s lenders and trading partners would be dragged down.  Fleeing Asia  This year, dollar gains are being fueled by money coming
home from all over the world.  The majority of selling by funds in the five months ended
May 31 had been assets of Asian countries, as traders exited
bets that saw the Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asian Currency Index gain
19 percent from March 2009 through August 2011. The gauge, which
measures the dollar’s performance against major Asian currencies
excluding the yen, has since slipped more than 4 percent.  U.S. investors dumped $15.8 billion in assets from  Asia 
this year, according to Treasury data.  “The period when there was heavy diversification into
foreign markets between 2005 and 2007 and then after 2009, those
flows were to Asia so that’s why we’re getting the most
repatriation from there,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of
currency research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in  London , said in
a July 24 interview.  Europe Crisis  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi expects the Dollar Index to rise
to 86.5 in three months and 87.6 by year-end, which would be its
highest level since June 2010.  U.S. investors in May focused on moving assets from the
 euro zone , selling $4.1 billion more securities than they
bought, for the first time since the third quarter of 2011,
 Treasury data  show. That accounted for the majority of net
repatriation by domestic investors in May. Bets are surging that
 Greece  will depart the currency bloc as it struggles to meet
bailout targets and  Germany  and other euro-area states indicate
a reluctance to put up more funds.  Citigroup Inc. places the probability the nation will exit
the euro in the next 18 months at 90 percent and Moody’s
Investors Service cited “increased likelihood” of a Greek exit
in its decision to cut its outlook last week to “negative” for
AAA rated Germany and the Netherlands. The ratings company said
in its Credit Outlook today that the ECB’s actions alone “will
not resolve the debt crisis.”  “The crisis in Europe will get worse before it gets better
and if Greece were to leave the euro zone we could be in a
similar-type phase in terms of repatriation flows that we saw in
the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman,” Halpenny said.  Euro Rebound  The euro and stocks recovered at the end of last week as
two central bank officials said Draghi will hold talks with
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann in an effort to overcome the
stumbling blocks to new measures including bond purchases.  Having secured the backing of governments in Spain, France
and Germany, Draghi is seeking to win over ECB policy makers for
a multi-pronged approach to reduce bond yields in countries such
as Spain and Italy, the officials said late July 27 on condition
of anonymity because the talks are private.  Even after its gains, the dollar remains undervalued
against its major counterparts. The Fed’s Trade-Weighted Real
Broad Dollar Index, which tracks the dollar on a trade-weighted
basis versus 38 peers, shows the greenback has depreciated 14
percent from its average in 1973, the year global currencies
began freely floating.  Dollar Undervalued  The U.S. currency is 37 percent undervalued versus the
Australian dollar and 27 percent too cheap against the yen,
according to Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development data based on purchasing power.  “As the situation in Europe deteriorates you’re seeing
economies around the world slow down,” Bob Gelfond, chief
executive officer of global macro hedge-fund MQS Management in
New York, said July 24 in a telephone interview. “People will
continue to look for safety, and particularly U.S. bonds are
viewed as the safest thing out there, which means buying
dollars.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  