-- Abu Dhabi Stocks Gain on Europe, Etisalat Bets; Dubai Retreats
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-07-29T12:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/dubai-stocks-gain-on-europe-earnings-bets-abu-dhabi-advances.html
Abu Dhabi  stocks rose the most in a
month on bets the government may permit foreigners to buy shares
of  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)  and amid optimism Europe’s
policy makers will take steps to ease the debt crisis.  Etisalat, as the phone company is known, advanced the most
since June.  First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB) , Abu Dhabi’s third-biggest
bank, increased 1.3 percent. The ADX General Index gained 0.6
percent, the most since June 21, to 2,485.51 at the close in the
emirate. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  slipped less than 0.1
percent, while the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of stocks in the
region gained 0.2 percent.  State-controlled Etisalat will “soon” allow foreigners to
own its shares,  Al Khaleej  reported, citing Group Chief
Executive Officer Ahmad Abdulkarim Julfar. Etisalat is  60
percent owned  by state-controlled Emirates Investment Co.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. European and U.S.
equities rallied July 27 on bets the European Central Bank would
begin a new round of joint-bond purchases to ease borrowing
costs in Spain and Italy, while Germany and France pledged to do
everything to protect the euro.  “A report that Etisalat will soon allow foreigners to own
its shares supported the market today in addition to the good
results announced by the Abu Dhabi banks last week,” said Samer Darwiche, a Dubai-based analyst at Gulfmena Investments Ltd.  First Gulf Bank, which last week reported a better-than-
expected 14 percent jump in quarterly profit to 1.02 billion
dirhams ($278 million), advanced to 8.72 dirhams, the highest
since May 29. U.A.E. banks are recovering after the global
financial crisis slowed lending, hurt investment banking revenue
and led to an increase in bad loans.  ‘Protect the Euro’  The ECB will hold talks in the coming days, and the  Federal
Reserve  will announce Aug. 1 whether it intends to take
additional measures to bolster the U.S. economy. All of the six
Gulf Cooperation Council’s members except Kuwait peg their
currencies to the dollar.  “Assuring a safe euro means lower hedging costs for
foreign traders in our markets,” said Talal Touqan, the Abu
Dhabi-based head of research at Al Ramz Securities.  About 21  million shares  traded in Abu Dhabi today, compared
with a 12-month daily average of about 59 million. The Islamic
holy month of Ramadan, when Muslims fast from sunrise to sunset
and business activity slows, has started.  Crude for September delivery rose 0.8 percent to $90.13 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange on July 27. Gulf Arab
oil exporters, including the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia, supply
about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained less than 0.1
percent after climbing 1.5 percent yesterday. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM) 
gained 0.7 percent, Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  fell 0.2 percent while
Kuwait’s gauge was little changed and Bahrain’s measure
decreased 0.4 percent.  Etisalat rose 1.4 percent, the most since June 21, to 9.35
dirhams. The company said last month it’s up to the federal
government to decide on foreign investments after Emarat Alyoum
reported a law that governs Etisalat may be amended to allow
foreign and institutional investors to hold shares. Etisalat’s
 second-quarter profit  rose 17 percent to 1.87 billion dirhams,
beating analysts’ estimates. The shares have increased 2.4
percent this year compared with a 3.5 percent gain for the
benchmark  ADX General Index. (ADSMI)   In North Africa, Egypt’s  EGX30 Index (EGX30)  gained 0.1 percent.
Israel’s market was closed for a holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  