-- Tech Stocks Rally as Earnings Outlook Improves: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-07-30T07:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/tech-stocks-rally-as-earnings-outlook-improves-israel-overnight.html
Israeli equities  traded in  New York 
are headed for the biggest monthly gain since March as the
earnings outlook improves for companies from  EZchip
Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  to  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP)   The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most traded
Israeli companies in New York has advanced 3.4 percent in July
to 84.83, the most since March.  Check Point , the world’s second-
largest security networks maker, jumped 14 percent from a July
10 low as it reported adjusted earnings per share that beat
analyst estimates. Bearish bets on EZchip, the technology
company that supplies network processors to Cisco Systems Inc.,
have  dropped  from a 16-month high reached on July 9.  Israeli technology shares are gaining as investors
speculate companies will maintain their sales forecasts,
according to Stifel Nicolaus & Co. The Bloomberg-Israel gauge
has outperformed the  Nasdaq Computer Index (IXK)  in July, which rose
0.6 percent.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest semiconductor
maker, forecast revenue will rise 3 to 5 percent this year,
allaying concern of growth remaining unchanged in the computer
market.  “Investors, especially technology investors, see out a
year from now, and they see the cycle tick upward,”  Kevin
Cassidy , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, said by phone from
 Washington  on July 27. “The numbers aren’t as bad as people
thought they would be.”  Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  jumped 1.6 percent at 9:53 a.m. in Tel
Aviv, taking this month’s advance to 2.6 percent. The benchmark
gauge has climbed 2.3 percent this year, underperforming the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which has jumped 10 percent, and
the Nasdaq Composite Index which has increased by 14 percent.  U.S. GDP  The U.S., the world’s largest economy, grew at a slower
pace in the second quarter, pointing to a more sluggish
recovery. Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced, rose at a 1.5 percent annual rate after a
revised 2 percent gain in the prior quarter, Commerce Department
data showed on July 27 in Washington.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will hold
talks with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann on Aug. 2,
according to two central bank officials, as he builds consensus
for new monetary easing measures to contain the surging
borrowing costs for some of Europe’s biggest economies.  The ratio of outstanding puts to sell the stock of EZchip
versus calls to buy the shares dropped to 0.21 in New York, from
0.32 on July 9, which was the most since March 2011. The shares
of the Yokneam, Israel-based company, which had slumped to
$32.26 on July 13, have recovered 16 percent to $37.46 in New
York. Its Tel Aviv shares have also climbed from a five-month
low of 128.5 shekels on July 15, or the equivalent of $31.76, to
150.7 shekels, or $37.26, today.  ‘Oversold’  “Stocks that have bounced back, in many ways got to
oversold territory,”  Jay Srivatsa , managing director of equity
research at Chardan Capital Markets LLC, said in an e-mail. They
may “drop back down if second-quarter results and third-quarter
guidance are not in line with estimates.”  EZchip reports earnings results for the previous quarter on
Aug. 8. The company will  report  sales of $15.5 million,
according to the mean estimate of eight analysts.  Check Point shares closed at the highest level since June
20 as the company’s stock recovered from a 19-month low reached
on July 10. The Tel Aviv-based company reported adjusted
earnings of 77 cents per share, which was more than the 76 cent
mean estimate of 27 analysts.  ‘High End’  Even as the company relies on  39 percent  of its revenue
from Europe, it “benefits from its strength at the high end of
the market,” according to a July 19 report from Zacks
Investment Research.  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
China. The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , which has tripled its market
value this year, has risen 47 percent this month, after
providing a sales forecast of as much as $155 million in the
third quarter, 50 percent more than analyst estimates.  The Yokneam Elit-based company, with about 950 employees
and a market value of $4.1 billion, accounts for 6.3 percent of
Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index, the fifth-largest member by
weight. The  Tel Aviv  shares surged 7.5 percent to 425.3, or the
equivalent of $105.14, today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  