-- Hedge Funds Add Wagers in Longest Streak Since 2009: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-07-30T22:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/hedge-funds-add-wagers-in-longest-streak-since-2009-commodities.html
Hedge funds  raised commodity bets in
the longest bullish streak in three years as speculation that
policy makers will increase economic stimulus drove prices
toward the biggest monthly rally since October.  Money managers raised their net-long positions across 18
U.S. futures and options by 3.4 percent to 1.17 million
 contracts  in the week ended July 24, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. Wagers gained for seven weeks, the
longest increase since June 2009. Corn bets climbed to the
highest since September 2011, and traders are the most bullish
on  natural gas  since October 2006.  Investors added bets even as commodities fell 0.4 percent
in the week to July 24. The bulls were proved right after prices
rebounded 1.8 percent in the following three days as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to protect the euro
on July 26. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  echoed his comments the next day. A U.S.
government report on July 27 showed the world’s biggest economy
grew at a slower pace in the second quarter, increasing pressure
on the  Federal Reserve  to boost aid measures.  “Some of these issues that have been weighing against
commodities, particularly industrial metals and energy, have
probably over-emphasized the negative,” said  Bill O’Neill , the
chief investment officer for the  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa 
at Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, which oversees more than
$1.8 trillion. “The fundamental backup is the policy easing.”  July Rally  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index jumped 7.1 percent
this month through July 27, on course for the biggest gain since
October. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities climbed
1.1 percent in July, and the dollar gained 1.3 percent against a
measure of six major trading partners. Treasuries returned 0.7
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Seventeen of the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI
gained this month through July 27, led by a 25 percent surge in
corn. Wheat futures jumped 19 percent in Chicago, heading for
the biggest advance in two years. The GSCI rose 0.4 percent to
settle at 644.6 today.  The ECB’s Draghi meets with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy
Geithner  in  Frankfurt  today and is also attempting to win over
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, a critic of ECB bond
purchases. The ECB’s Governing Council and the Bank of England’s
Monetary Policy Committee meet this week.  Fed Meeting  Fed policy makers are scheduled to announce an interest-
rate decision at the end of a two-day meeting on Aug. 1. The
central bank may signal plans for additional monetary stimulus,
 John Taylor , the founder of currency-hedge fund FX Concepts LLC,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview July 27.  The actions from central bankers may not be enough to stem
declines in commodities, said  Jack Ablin , who helps oversee
about $60 billion of assets as chief investment officer of BMO
Harris Private Bank in Chicago.  “Draghi is ramping up the rhetoric, but we’re back to the
rhetoric stage,” Ablin said. “For the second half, I see a
very cloudy picture. I have a difficult time making a bet right
now” on commodities, he said.  Price gains may slow in the next several months as global
manufacturing slows, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by
Tobias Merath said in a report July 25. In June,  China ’s
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to 50.2, the weakest pace this
year, the Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics and the
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said July 1.  $815 Million  Investors pulled $815 million from raw-material funds in
the week ended July 25, the most in nine weeks, according to
EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. Gold and other precious-
metal outflows totaled $585 million, also a nine-week high, the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company said.  Wagers on a crude-oil rally climbed 5.6 percent to 140,636
contracts, the highest since May 8, CFTC data show. Bullish
sugar bets jumped 17 percent to 128,093 contracts, the most
since March 27.  Speculators have got more bullish on commodities since
prices last quarter posted the biggest loss since 2008. The
number of  contracts  outstanding across the 24 members of the S&P
GSCI rose 0.5 percent in July, poised for the biggest monthly
gain since March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumption Gains  Commodity assets under management totaled $404 billion in
June, up 1.2 percent since the end of 2011 and more than double
the amount in 2007, according to data from Barclays Plc. The S&P
GSCI surged 84 percent since Dec. 31, 2008.  The Fed lowered  interest rates  to a record in December 2008
and bought $2.3 trillion in government and housing debt through
June 2011 in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing.  Monetary easing and other government efforts to revive the
recovery makes growth more likely for later this year and in
2013,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  Chief Executive Officer Doug Oberhelman
said in a statement July 25. The Peoria, Illinois-based company,
considered a U.S. economic bellwether because it’s the world’s
largest maker of construction and mining equipment, raised its
full-year earnings-per-share forecast by about 1.1 percent.  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators raised
bullish wagers in agricultural commodities by 3.8 percent to
856,446 contracts, the highest since Sept. 6, 2011. Bets on a
corn rally climbed 19 percent to 279,385 contracts. Wheat
holdings jumped 9.6 percent to a record 79,649 contracts.  Dry weather has scorched crops from  Russia  to the U.S.,
sending corn and soybean prices to records on July 23. About 64
percent of the U.S. was in moderate to severe drought last week,
the U.S. Drought Monitor said July 26. The International Grains
Council cut its forecast for Russian wheat production by 8.2
percent on the same day.  “Now is a good time to build commodity positions,” said
Jonathan Guyer, the chief investment officer of Longview Funds
Management LLC in Columbia,  Maryland , which oversees about $19
million of assets. “There’s a brighter outlook for Europe to
fix its woes and for the U.S. to fix its woes, and for the
global economy to begin to emerge” from a slowdown, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  