-- Emaar Quarterly Profit More Than Doubles, Beats Estimates
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-07-29T12:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/emaar-second-quarter-profit-more-than-doubles-beats-estimates.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer
of the world’s tallest tower in Dubai, said second-quarter
profit more than doubled, beating analysts’ estimates, as a one-
time impairment charge was not repeated and it cut costs.  Net income  climbed to 614 million dirhams ($167 million)
from 250 million dirhams a year earlier,  the company said in a
statement  to the Dubai stock market today. The mean estimate of
five analysts was for a profit of 545 million dirhams, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emaar, also the owner of the world’s largest shopping mall
in Dubai, is increasingly relying on income from hotels and
retail as revenue from residential sales declines. Dubai’s
biggest publicly traded developer plans to add 1 million square
feet (92,903 square meters) of space to the Dubai Mall, to boost
recurring income.  The results “are likely to provide support to Emaar’s
share performance,” said Jan Pawel Hasman, a Cairo-based
analyst at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE with a buy rating on the
stock. “We continue to view Emaar as one of the soundest and
attractively priced exposure to the  Middle East , North Africa
real-estate market, supported by a solid stream of hospitality
and retail revenues.”  The shares closed  0.3 percent lower at 3.24 dirhams before
the results were announced. The stock has increased 26 percent
this year compared with a 12 percent gain for the benchmark
 Dubai Financial Market General Index. (DFMGI)   Revenue Mix  Like most of its peers in the  United Arab Emirates , Emaar
saw earnings drop after Dubai’s property market collapsed at the
end of 2008 and caused residential values to fall by 60 percent
or more. Income from selling properties in the 818-meter (2,684-
foot) Burj Khalifa, the world’ tallest tower, has dwindled as
buyers paid their final installments on completed apartments.  In the second quarter last year, Emaar wrote off its 172
million-dirham investment in Dubai Bank PJSC, which was taken
over by the government and merged with  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  after
losses mounted. The developer cut costs by 9 percent to 965
million dirhams in the second quarter of this year, while
revenue gained 3 percent to 2.1 billion dirhams.  Rental, retail and hospitality businesses contributed 51
percent to first-half revenue, the company owned 31 percent-
owned by the government said today. Rental and retail income
grew 23 percent to 1.3 billion dirhams, while hospitality
business raked in 720 million dirhams in the first half.  Dubai Turnaround  “The real estate market in Dubai is turning around,”
Chairman Mohammed Alabbar said in the statement. “Emaar’s
financial results for the first half of the year reflects the
growing strength of Dubai’s economy.”  Emaar this month raised $500 million from the sale of
seven-year Islamic bonds at a profit rate of 6.4 percent. Last
year, the company raised $500 million from a sukuk sale at a
profit rate of 8.5 percent and a 3.6 billion-dirham financing
facility backed by its Dubai Mall.  “To add long-term value to our stakeholders, we are
planning on bigger growth in our home market through projects
such as the Dubai Modern Art Museum & Opera House District, and
the expansion of The Dubai Mall, in addition to new project
launches,” Alabbar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  