-- Lesbians Restored to Lives of Glamour, Garbo’s Boudoir: Books
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-07-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/lesbians-restored-to-lives-of-glamour-garbo-s-boudoir-books.html
In “ All We Know ,”  Lisa Cohen 
does rescue work on the reputations of three scintillating
lesbians whose accomplishments were once written off as
dubious or, worse, trivial.  Esther Murphy (1897-1962) was a world-class talker.
Someone who knew her well described her, unkindly, as “a
huge & rather clumsy tank” -- she was six feet tall --
mounted with “a loudspeaker which blares forth brilliant
ideas no one can refute and which everyone wants to listen
to for just so long.”  About the brilliance there was no dispute. But she
never finished the biographies of French noblewomen she had
planned. “Esther’s need for an audience was so great,”
Cohen concludes, “that she could not isolate herself to
write, and so it was a lifelong performance rather than a
document that she produced.”  Going deeper, she wonders why words that haven’t been
set down on the page amount to a mark of failure anyway.
“It is unlikely that a book on Madame de Maintenon,” she
observes, “would have been remembered and discussed as much
as its absence was.”  Mercedes de Acosta (1893-1968) was the lover (though
proof isn’t absolute in all cases) of Alla Nazimova, Eva Le
Gallienne, Marlene Dietrich, Isadora Duncan, Ona Munson and
-- for her, above all -- Greta Garbo.  She has sometimes been dismissed as shallow and star-
struck. Cohen defends her, almost angrily, from those who
think she can be “thoroughly known, in an epithet or two,”
using her life as a springboard for reflections on fandom,
celebrity culture and “what we understand to be a
biographical fact.”  Fashion Editor  Madge Garland (1896-1990) was the most successful and
accomplished of the three. Born (to her lifelong chagrin)
in  Melbourne , she grew up a well-to-do English snob. But
when she quietly insisted on going to work, her father cut
her off.  The shy, sickly girl matured into a dragon in pearls,
becoming the fashion editor of  British Vogue  in the 1920s
and again in the ’30s and, later, the creator of the School
of Fashion at the  Royal College of Art .  “There was a woman actually walking around in couture
clothes,” one of her students recalled, still aflutter.
“She was what fashion was about.”  Yet the need to work for a living made her more
vulnerable than the book’s other two subjects.  Conde Nast 
fired her in 1926 largely for being gay.  English System  And so Cohen’s discussion of Garland -- the longest
and finest section in this magisterial book -- builds to
her intricate “Notes on Discretion,” in which she considers
the reigning paradox of Garland’s career.  The “organization of her life around self-display was
bound up with a need to actively, continually conceal
herself,” Cohen explains -- the necessary concomitant of a
longing for achievement in the England of that era.  “All We Know” is really much more about reflecting on
lives (especially in the case of de Acosta) than about
chronicling them. Experimental biography, if such a genre
can be said to exist, is a high-wire act. Cohen never loses
her balance.  But an observation she makes in the section on Esther
Murphy (its title is “A Perfect Failure”) suggests that she
must have felt the danger. “To fail: to make the mess one
almost always has to make before a book achieves the form
in which it appears to be inevitable.”  There’s no hint of mess in this almost perfect book.  “All We Know: Three Lives” is published by Farrar,
Straus and Giroux (429 pages, $30). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  James
Pressley  on business books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 