-- European Bank Regulator Imperiled by German Zombie Banks
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-07-29T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/european-bank-regulator-imperiled-by-german-zombie-banks.html
Germany ’s regulator balked last year
when the European Banking Authority conducted stress tests on
financial firms, objecting to the agency’s definition of capital
and allowing one state-owned lender to withhold some results.  The refusal to go along with the European Union regulator
reflects an aversion by governments to ceding control to a
central authority that may doom talks about creating a banking
union and thwart plans to shift the burden of bailing out
Spanish and Irish lenders to other euro-area nations.  “Germany didn’t let the EBA dictate any terms to its
troubled banks, why would it now hand over controls to a new
regulator?” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy Ltd., a  London  consulting firm specializing
in sovereign-credit risk. “The prospects of a new central
authority are shaky at best.”  EU leaders agreed in June to use common funds to inject
cash directly into banks once a new regulator is established.
Until then,  Spain  will be on the hook for as much as 100 billion
euros ($123 billion) it may need to borrow to recapitalize its
banks. That means increasing the  public debt level , already
strained by budget deficits, a second recession in four years
and regional governments strapped for cash.  First Step  Establishing a central regulator with true supervisory
powers is the first step toward creating a European banking
union, which also would feature a joint deposit-insurance fund
and a mechanism for dismantling failed firms. The idea,
discussed since the start of the sovereign-debt crisis, depends
on 17 nations agreeing on who’s going to pay for banks’ losses.  That won’t be easy. When German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  sought approval from parliament for a Spanish bailout
this month, he said Spain would remain liable for any money it
borrows to rescue its banks.  Six days after the June 28-29 summit where the agreement
was reached, the German newspaper  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung 
published a letter signed by  172 economists  criticizing the
decision to support banks directly after setting up a central
supervisor. That amounts to the first step toward a banking
union that will make taxpayers in some European nations
responsible for the “enormous losses” faced by banks in other
countries, the economists warned.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has called repeatedly for
nations to give up more sovereignty as a prerequisite for using
common funds for bank bailouts or jointly issuing euro bonds,
even as her own officials have resisted central authority.  Resisting Regulation  Even Spain, which stands to benefit most from a banking
union, has resisted external regulation of its firms. The Bank
of Spain, which supervises Spanish lenders, clashed with the EBA
over last year’s stress tests, according to a person familiar
with the discussions who asked not to be named because the talks
were private. It said “no Spanish bank needs to increase its
capital” the same day that the EU agency said five of the
country’s lenders needed to raise more capital.  Spain’s opposition might soften now that it has asked the
EU for as much as 100 billion euros to fix its banking system,
Spiro said. Still, the survival of Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government may be threatened by such compromises and the
austerity measures imposed on the country, he said.  European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso  is facing
a self-imposed September deadline to unveil a blueprint for a
euro-area bank supervisor. Leaders of the monetary union asked
the EU’s Council of Ministers to act on Barroso’s proposal by
the end of the year. The commitment to an accelerated timetable
initially fueled market optimism that Spain could shift some of
its debt burden to the European Stability Mechanism, boosting
the price of Spanish bonds.  Spanish Bonds  The euphoria lasted only three days as Schaeuble and other
European officials cast doubt on the commitment to transfer
liability from  member states  to the EU. Last week the yield on
Spanish 10-year  government bonds  jumped to record levels,
exceeding 7 percent, before falling back below that after
comments by European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  led to
speculation that the ECB would buy Spanish and Italian bonds.  The EBA, established in 2011, was designed to provide
better oversight than the coordinating committee of national
bank regulators it replaced. Still, the London-based agency
doesn’t have the power to tell those supervisors what to do or
to close failed lenders.  ‘Big Fight’  While acknowledging the  EBA ’s ineffectiveness in getting
national regulators to give up power, a senior European official
involved in the discussions said some governments now agree that
that attitude has to change. There are two camps within the  euro
zone , one pushing for a swift overhaul, the other seeing it as a
longer-term goal, the official said, asking not to be identified
because the talks are private.  “Giving up national rights will be a big fight, but the
politicians now realize there might be no other way to resolve
the banking problem,” said Dirk Schoenmaker, dean of the
Duisenberg School of Finance in Amsterdam. “So they might
eventually get there kicking and screaming.”  The screaming by German banks was heard quickly after EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy  released a 10-year road map in June
calling for common deposit insurance.  “More integration in  Europe  can’t purely be built on a
redistribution of funds at the cost of German taxpayers and
savers,” the association of German savings banks said in a
statement the same day.  Deposit Insurance  To guarantee the  11 trillion euros  of deposits in euro-area
banks, lenders would need to pay fees equivalent to 20 percent
of their profits for the next five years, Barclays Plc analysts
estimated last month. The common insurance fund could be smaller
and cost less if it covers only 100,000 euros per depositor, the
current EU-wide insurance threshold, according to Schoenmaker.  The establishment of central supervision and joint deposit
insurance are the relatively easier parts of creating a banking
union, Schoenmaker said. More difficult is agreeing on who pays
for the resolution of failed lenders and who decides to shut
them, he said. While the ECB can provide more cash to keep such
banks going, the money to recapitalize them has to come from
governments, Schoenmaker said.  “You need a tough guy with final authority, at a safe
distance from politicians, to be the resolution mechanism,”
Schoenmaker said. “It’s not clear if the ECB can play that role
without decisions getting mired in politics.”  Ireland, Spain  The ECB doesn’t have a great track record forcing
governments to shut insolvent banks, said Spiro, the sovereign-
risk analyst. After Ireland’s banks were bailed out in 2010,
only two of the six biggest were ordered to close. The others
have been kept alive after receiving about 30 billion euros from
the government. Two years later they’re mostly locked out of
credit markets and rely on the ECB for financing.  Spain also failed to shut its weakest lenders, merging
dozens of savings banks, or cajas, and supporting them with
small capital injections. That didn’t make them any more
solvent.  Bankia (BKIA)  group, which became the country’s third-largest
lender when seven regional banks were combined, needed an
additional 19 billion-euro bailout from the government in May.  “Merging 17 insolvent banking systems won’t give you a
solvent system, the way merging seven insolvent cajas into
Bankia didn’t work,” said Gordon Kerr, founder of Cobden
Partners, a London-based consulting firm that advises
governments on banking crises. “When you have insolvent banks
operating, you debase the whole financial system.”  ‘Zombie Banks’  Germany too has resisted demands that it dismantle failed
banks. It took four years for regulators to shut WestLB AG, a
regional lender crippled by its U.S. subprime and other risky
investments during the 2008 financial crisis, even as the
European Commission’s competition authority pressed for its
closing. The commission last week accepted restructuring plans
for two other banks that received state aid.  “Germany is the creator of zombie banks and has been
protecting its zombies against the EBA or other EU institutions
that have tried to dismantle them,” said Peter Tchir, founder
of New York-based TF Market Advisors, which advises  hedge funds .
“Germany might not be acting so fast to give the reins to a new
central authority.”  Even if a central authority is created, getting governments
to agree to pay to wind down failed banks in other countries
will be a challenge, said Constantin Gurdgiev, a finance
lecturer at Trinity College in Dublin.  “There’s still no political will to pay for these bank
losses, either Irish or Spanish, among the European countries
that have some money,” Gurdgiev said.  Underestimating Losses  The political will is hard to muster when it’s impossible
to know how big bank losses in Spain, Ireland and other euro-
zone countries will be, according to Guntram Wolff, deputy
director of Bruegel, a Brussels-based research institute. Irish
losses have reached 21 percent of banks’ total loans, exceeding
even the worst-case scenarios the government imagined when it
got a 68 billion-euro bailout in 2010.  “If Spanish bank losses are limited to 100 billion euros,
that might be manageable, but what if they’re at 200 billion?”
said Wolff. “We have all these insolvent banks that have to be
resolved. And we don’t know the true size of the problem.”  Spain probably is overestimating its banks’ potential
earning power and underestimating their losses, said  Karel Lannoo , chief executive officer of the Centre for European
Policy Studies in Brussels. His research organization has
estimated Spanish lenders may lose as much as 380 billion euros.  “Their business model is bust already, and in a further
deteriorating economy, there’s no way they can make money,”
Lannoo said.  Too Big  The euro area will struggle to create a true banking union
because the financial system is too big for the sovereign states
to back, according to  Alberto Gallo , head of European macro
credit research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.
Banks’ assets are three times the size of the region’s gross
domestic product, which means guaranteeing just 5 percent of
liabilities would increase public debt by 15 percent, he said.
Government debt levels already average 87 percent of GDP.  “The firepower left to guarantee banks is very little,”
Gallo said.  Even if the  June summit  decision is a sign that Germany,
the Netherlands and other northern European countries are
agreeing to share the burden of saving banks elsewhere,
politicians are moving too slowly to keep up with markets,
according to Gianluigi Cesano, a professor of economics at the
University of Turin.  “Germany and others may be willing to move toward full
integration, but they want to do it at their own pace,” said
Cesano. “But markets are moving much faster, and if you have
free markets, you have to abide with their timing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  