-- Lewis Hamilton Wins Hungarian Grand Prix as Alonso Extends Lead
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-07-29T22:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/lewis-hamilton-wins-hungarian-grand-prix-as-alonso-extends-lead.html
Lewis Hamilton  of McLaren won
yesterday’s Hungarian Grand Prix for a second victory in this
year’s Formula One championship as he revived his faltering
title challenge.  Lotus duo  Kimi Raikkonen  and  Romain Grosjean  were second
and third after 69 laps of the Hungaroring circuit near
Budapest. Defending two-time world champion Sebastian Vettel of
Red Bull was fourth, followed by Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso , who
extended his lead in the standings. The Spaniard was aiming for
a 31st career victory on his 31st birthday.  Yesterday’s win was Hamilton’s third in the race and the
19th of the Briton’s career. He moved up one place to fourth in
the drivers’ event, and narrowed his deficit on Alonso to 47
points from 62. Having scored only four points in the previous
three races, he vowed to increase the pressure on the Spaniard,
a two-time world champion.  “An amazing day, fantastic work by all the team and the
fans have been fantastic,” Hamilton, world champion in 2008,
said at the post-race presentation. ‘There’s a long way to go
and a lot of work to do but we have shown we can compete. We are
going to give it all we can.”  McLaren’s Jenson Button and Williams’s  Bruno Senna  were
sixth and seventh. Then came  Mark Webber  (Red Bull),  Felipe Massa  (Ferrari) and  Nico Rosberg  (Mercedes). Alonso increased
his lead by 6 points with yesterday’s result, and is now on 164.
Webber, his closest competitor, has 124, followed by Vettel
(122), Hamilton (117) and Raikkonen (116).  Strong Start  Hamilton made a strong start from pole position, followed
by Grosjean. Button quickly got past Vettel to take third spot
and Alonso moved past Raikkonen to take fifth. Webber surged
from 11th to seventh.  That remained the pattern until lap 16, when Button went
into the pits, re-emerging in eighth.  After leading drivers pitted by lap 22, Hamilton maintained
the lead, ahead of Grosjean, Button, Vettel, Raikkonen and
Alonso. Halfway through the race Button made a second stop to
put on soft tires, dropping him to eighth, and he then lacked
the pace to make a quick move up the field.  Raikkonen, who hadn’t yet made a further pit stop, showed
great pace to build up a 14-second lead, followed by Hamilton,
Grosjean and Vettel. Raikkonen then did stop and forced his
teammate Grosjean to go wide as he re-emerged to take second
position behind Hamilton. Then came Grosjean, Vettel and Webber.  Kept Up Pressure  Raikkonen kept up the pressure on Hamilton in the closing
laps, but the Briton managed to stretch his lead to 1.2 seconds
from 0.9 and held on for the victory.  “We came second, it’s not enough but we had very good
speed and we’ll be trying again to win,” Raikkonen said. “At
least we’re up there all the time. We’re not happy until we
win.”  Red Bull  leads the constructors’ standings on 246 points,
ahead of McLaren (193), Lotus (192) and Ferrari (189).  Formula One now takes a break before the Belgian Grand
Prix, the 12th in a 20-race series, at Spa-Francorchamps on
Sept. 2.  “I think the summer break will be important, mentally and
physically, but we must know we have a lot of work to do,”
Hamilton told reporters. “Fernando still got 10 points, but if
we can stay like this and be consistent we can close the gap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  