-- Ex-Lehman Banker Parlays Bonuses Into Cycling Berth at Olympics
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-29T23:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/ex-lehman-banker-parlays-bonuses-into-berth-at-london-olympics.html
Evelyn Stevens  bought her first
racing bicycle while working as a  fund manager  in 2008. Nervous
of New York’s traffic, she left it in her Manhattan apartment
and hung bags on its aluminum frame.  Yesterday, she raced at the London Olympics.  It was the latest notch in the cycling career of 29-year-
old Stevens, who in 2009 quit her Wall Street job helping to
manage a $480 million fund at Gleacher Mezzanine to try and
become a professional rider.  The 5-foot-5 (1.7-meter) Stevens said she’s using savings
from banking bonuses to “cushion” the blow of lower earnings.
She began her career as an investment-banking analyst at  Lehman
Brothers Inc ., leaving in 2007 before the bank collapsed.  “I was able to save a lot of my bonuses,” Stevens said.
“I don’t have to survive on a $10,000 or $8,000 purse from
cycling. If I hadn’t been in  investment banking , I wouldn’t have
been able to be at the Olympics.”  She was 24th in yesterday’s Olympic women’s road race,
finishing among a group including teammate Shelley Olds that was
27 seconds behind gold-medal winner Marianne Voss of the
Netherlands. There were 66 riders at the start.  Kristin Armstrong , the U.S.’s defending time-trial gold
medalist, crashed about halfway through the 87-mile race in
driving rain and finished about 20 seconds further back just
ahead of the other American, Amber Neben.  Stevens said it took her about 10 miles of riding to get
accustomed to the thousands of spectators lining the route.  Surreal Experience  “It was surreal, I was kind of staring at everything that
was going on,” Stevens said, a rain coat draped around her
shoulders at the finish line. “It was literally one of the most
incredible experiences of my life.”  Stevens's other cycling marks include a stage win in the
women’s Giro d’Italia, victory at  Belgium ’s Fleche Wallonne and
two U.S. national time-trial titles. In her third year as a
professional, she said she is still learning her new trade on a
team sponsored by Morgan Hill, California-based  Specialized
Bicycle Components Inc.   While there’s a “big discrepancy” from what she once
earned, Stevens said her quality of life has improved. After
leaving behind a 90-hour working week in banking, she lives in
Girona,  Spain  during the European racing season and Boulder,
 Colorado .  Everyone Stressed  “In New York there’s pressure, and it’s kind of negative,
everyone was stressed,” Stevens, dressed in U.S. team tracksuit
and lycra three-quarter length pants at the London Olympic Park,
said July 27. “I don’t get so much money now but my quality of
living has gone up.”  Back in 2008, Stevens, who had played on the Dartmouth
College tennis team, said she was nervous about taking her first
$1,000 aluminum Cannondale Corp. bike out for a ride in  New York 
traffic for the first time.  “I was very uncertain about how to ride it,” Stevens
said. “I was so nervous of traffic. Then finally I started
taking it up the  West Side Highway  and I would ride it all the
way up to the 96th street and cut across.”  She said she built up confidence after a class at the
 Century Road Club Association  at 5 a.m. with 50 other women
including actors, lawyers and teachers in Central Park. She soon
started to win interstate races.  Lehman Deal  Stevens would cycle on a home trainer after work from 9
p.m. until midnight to prepare for the weekend events, Phil
Krall, a former colleague at Gleacher, said.  “On Monday mornings at work, I would ask her how she
did,” Krall said by telephone. “She would always say ‘Oh, I
won.’”  Gleacher, which specializes in buying debt in leveraged
buyouts, has since been renamed  Arrowhead Mezzanine LLC  and
relocated to Greenwich,  Connecticut , said Krall, who is senior
managing director.  Stevens worked on deals including Lehman’s 2008 acquisition
of a stake in bicycle component maker  Sram International Corp. (SRAM) ,
Krall said. Her next assignment is a nine-day stage race in
France in August  “In investment banking when you’ve finished a deal, you
get a gift for what you’ve done,” Stevens said. “But there’s
nothing in the world that comes close to winning a race, it’s
the best feeling in the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff at the London Olympic Park  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  