-- Failed Wisconsin Oil Pipe Section Heads to Lab, U.S. Says
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-07-30T01:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/failed-wisconsin-oil-pipe-section-heads-to-lab-u-s-says.html
The section of an  Enbridge Energy
Partners LP (EEP)  pipeline that leaked crude will be sent to a
metallurgical laboratory to determine the cause of the release
that shut part of the world’s longest oil pipeline, U.S.
regulators said.  All the pooled oil has been cleaned up at the site of the
July 27 leak from Line 14 near Grand Marsh,  Wisconsin , Patricia Klinger, a spokeswoman for the Transportation Department’s
 Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration , said in
an e-mailed statement today. An estimated 1,200 barrels (50,400
gallons) spilled.  Two inspectors from the Washington-based agency remain on
site, Klinger said. She didn’t provide an estimated restart time
or date for Line 14, part of Houston-based Enbridge’s Lakehead
System, which supplies  70 percent  of the crude processed in
Chicago-area refineries, according to the company’s website.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency sent an emergency
response team to conduct air monitoring operations, the agency
said in an e-mail. EPA also set up a command group to include
state and company officials and is overseeing excavation of
contaminated soil and vegetation.  Three nearby conduits that run through the same rights-of-
way as Line 14 -- Lines 6A, 61 and 13 -- were shut as a
precaution; of those, only Line 13 remains closed, Lorraine Little, a company spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview
today. Grand Marsh is about 60 miles (97 kilometers) north of
Madison, Wisconsin.  Probable Violations  The leak occurred 25 days after the pipeline regulator
notified Enbridge Energy Partners and its parent company,
 Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , of probable violations of federal rules in a July
2010 leak in  Michigan  that was more than 10 times larger than
last week’s spill in Wisconsin.  The parent company announced a $3 billion expansion of its
network in May to deliver more oil from the Great Plains and
western  Canada  to refineries in the U.S. East and Ontario.  Enbridge Energy Partners gained 1.8 percent to $29.50 on
July 27. The shares fell 11 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  