-- FDA’s Immoral Stance on Lethal Injection Drugs
-- B y   R a y m o n d   B o n n e r
-- 2012-07-29T22:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/fda-s-immoral-stance-on-lethal-injection-drugs.html
The mission of the  Food and Drug
Administration  is to protect us from drugs that might kill
because they are impure, badly manufactured, untested. Well, not
all drugs, as it turns out.  When it comes to  drugs used  in executions, the FDA says it
doesn’t check on their “potency, safety or effectiveness.”
Thus, the agency allowed a small company in Mumbai that stored
its drugs in a room without air conditioning to sell  Nebraska 
enough sodium thiopental for 166 executions.  It permitted a tiny wholesaler, Dream Pharma, operating out
of two rooms in the back of a driving school in  London , to sell
 sodium thiopental  -- the most critical drug in executions -- to
 Georgia ,  Arkansas ,  Tennessee ,  South Carolina  and  California . The
FDA even helped expedite a shipment of sodium thiopental to
 Arizona  because “it was for the purpose of executions and not
for use by the general public,” the deputy director of the
Arizona Department of Corrections wrote in an e-mail to his
counterpart in California.  This caused one death penalty lawyer,  Clive Stafford Smith ,
to say sarcastically that drugs “can be expedited if they are
meant to kill someone, but apparently not if they are meant to
save lives.”  The conundrum for the FDA, which has now been sued, arose
when the only U.S. company that had FDA approval for sodium
thiopental,  Hospira (HSP) , ceased production. With that, death penalty
states scrambled abroad for the drug, an anesthetic, and their
problems escalated.  Three Injections  Lethal injection was first proposed in the 19th century by
a  New York  doctor who argued it would be cheaper than hanging.
Oklahoma was the first state to deploy it, in 1977, and
eventually all death penalty states followed. Most have used a
three-drug protocol administered through IVs inserted into the
arms of the prisoner, who is strapped onto a gurney. The first
is the anesthetic. This is to render the prisoner  unconscious  so
that he does not suffer the pain when the next drugs are
injected.  The second drug,  pancuronium bromide , paralyzes the
diaphragm and lungs, making it impossible for the condemned to
breathe. Finally potassium chloride is injected, causing death
by cardiac arrest.  In a landmark ruling in 2008,  Baze v. Rees , the  Supreme
Court  held that lethal injection was not “cruel and unusual
punishment,” which is proscribed by the Eighth Amendment.  But the court didn’t give blanket approval to this method
of execution. The majority looked specifically and carefully at
the three-drug protocol used in  Kentucky  that was spelled out in
detailed regulations. These ranged from the amounts of drugs to
the requirement that only qualified personnel could insert the
IVs in the prisoner’s arms. The court concluded that this
protocol did not present a “substantial risk of serious harm,”
or an “objectively intolerable risk of harm,” which is the
test for whether a punishment violates the Eighth Amendment.  The majority  recognized  that the most critical drug is the
anesthetic. “It is uncontested that, failing a proper dose of
sodium thiopental that would render the prisoner unconscious,
there is substantial, unconstitutionally unacceptable risk of
suffocation from the administration of pancuronium bromide and
pain from the injection of potassium chloride,” Chief Justice
 John Roberts  wrote.  This opened the door for lawyers representing clients
facing execution to argue that the sodium thiopental being
acquired from abroad was unsafe, or impure, either because it
was manufactured without proper quality controls or stored
improperly. The drugs came from a “non-FDA approved source,”
the lawyers argued.  Inmate Lawsuit  Finding itself under increasing attack from anti-death
penalty activists, the FDA issued a statement in January 2011.
Yes, it had permitted the importation of sodium thiopental for
executions without any review “for safety, effectiveness or
quality,” the agency said. “In doing so, FDA deferred to  law
enforcement  in the use of substances for lethal injection.”  Six death-row inmates, from California, Arizona and
Tennessee, sued the FDA to force it to take action, to block the
importation of sodium thiopental that had not been tested and
approved. They were represented by Bradford Berenson, a
Republican who was an associate White House counsel under
President  George W. Bush .  A federal district court judge ruled against the agency,
with some strikingly pointed language about the FDA’s defense
that it deferred to law enforcement agencies. “In the final
analysis, the FDA appears to be simply wrapping itself in the
flag of law enforcement discretion to justify its authority and
masquerade an otherwise seemingly callous indifference to the
health consequences of those imminently facing the executioner’s
needle,” wrote Judge Richard J. Leon, who was appointed to the
bench by Bush. “How utterly disappointing!”  Hanging over the ruling was whether the Obama
administration would appeal. If it did not, it would be a
victory of sorts for death-row inmates, though not a big one.
Requiring the FDA to review drugs for safety and efficacy
wouldn’t stop executions. It might, however, significantly
reduce unnecessary pain and suffering during an execution, which
is precisely the standard set by the Supreme Court.  Fifteen states wrote to Attorney General Eric H. Holder
urging him to appeal. He has done so, a notice of appeal filed
in late May.  “How utterly disappointing,” to borrow from Judge Leon.  (Raymond Bonner, a lawyer and former New York Times
reporter, is the author of “Anatomy of Injustice: A Murder Case
Gone Wrong.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on France’s  misguided
transaction tax  and on how to  improve the farm bill ; William D.
Cohan on Wall Street’s  arbitration system ;  Noah Feldman  on the
 NCAA’s unconvincing sanctions ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  rating U.S.
presidents ;  Luigi Zingales  on a  European banking union .  To contact the writer of this article:
Raymond Bonner in London at  ray@raymondbonner.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 