-- Ex-Rams Safety Rubin of Barclays Crowned Wall Street’s Top Jock
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/former-rams-safety-mark-rubin-wins-wall-street-decathlon.html
Mark Rubin decided to pursue a
second passion after a brief stint in the  National Football
League  and is now in his second year selling fixed income
futures at  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  He’s also Wall Street’s best athlete.  Rubin, 26, claimed the title yesterday by winning the
fourth annual Wall Street Decathlon, a charity event that raised
more than $1.2 million for  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center  in New York. Rubin finished atop a field of more than 120
traders, bankers and financial advisers in the 10-event
competition at  Columbia University ’s Wien Stadium on the
northern tip of  Manhattan .  “Everybody in this field loves to compete, whether it’s
Monopoly, sports or business,” Rubin, who had signed with the
 St. Louis Rams  in 2009 as an undrafted free agent, said in an
interview. “It’s a great cause, so you just go out, compete and
have a great time with it.”  Clinton Biondo of Fir Tree Partners was the runner-up,
followed by Jay Li of Hylas Capital, 2011 champion Justin Nunez
of PAMLI Capital Management and Brian Zakrocki of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)   Rubin finished with  7,227 points  in his debut at the RBC
Decathlon, 10 points more than Biondo. He trailed the 32-year-
old Biondo by 103 points entering the final event, the 800-meter
run, and finished almost nine seconds ahead of Biondo in a time
of 2 minutes, 22 seconds to take the title.  “With the point system, you really can’t have an off
event,” Rubin said. “So it’s really trying to be consistent,
giving your all for each event. I was dreading the 800. At that
time, it just all comes down to heart and gritting it out.”  Academic All-American  The 6-foot-3, 220-pound Rubin started 24 games at safety
while at  Penn State  University, where he was a first-team
Academic All-American. He practiced with the Rams in 2009 before
getting waived in Week 1 of the NFL season. After tryouts with
the  Buffalo Bills  and  Minnesota Vikings  failed to yield an NFL
roster spot, he returned to business school at Penn State and
joined Barclays in 2010.  “I was fortunate to get the opportunity,” Rubin said of
his NFL experience. “It was getting to the point where I had to
defer my second year of business school or keep working out and
training. There were always other careers and other paths which
I wanted to pursue.”  The RBC Decathlon featured runs at three distances -- 40
yards, 400 meters and 800 meters. That was the extent of its
similarity to the decathlon competition that will be held at the
London Olympics next month. Pull-ups, a football throw, an
agility drill, rowing, vertical jump, bench press and dips -- a
triceps exercise using one’s own weight -- also were part of the
one-day contest.  Executive Title  Biondo won the 30-39 age division and the top executive
title, while 42-year-old Mark Spina, an executive vice president
at ING Investment Management, was the top finisher in the
over-40 group.  “I was physically beat when the last event rolled
around,” Biondo said. “That said, I was pretty happy with most
of my other times and reps, so can’t complain.”  Jason Price, a former All-American sprinter at the
University of  Southern California , triggered a $100,000 donation
by running the 400 meters in an event-record 51.08 seconds.
Scott Stuart, the co-founder of Sageview Capital LP, had pledged
to donate that amount if a competitor broke the former decathlon
record of 54.63 seconds.  Price, a prime brokerage sales analyst for  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , fought through a strained right hamstring muscle.  $100,000 to Charity  “You get in the moment and you forget about the injury,”
Price, 24, said in an interview alongside the track that rings
the football field in Wien Stadium. “I hadn’t run all week, but
it’s great to be able to deliver that $100,000.”  Stuart’s donation was the biggest of the Decathlon’s so-
called charity bets that helped organizers more than double last
year’s donations, with 100 percent of the contributions going to
pediatric  cancer research .  Brian Kuritzky, a 25-year-old security analyst at Goldman
Sachs and a former Cornell University soccer player, was the top
individual fundraiser with over $90,000 in pledges. He delivered
on a $10,000 charity bet by running the 800 meters in under
2:14, finishing in the third-best time of 2:10.9.  “There are so many people on  Wall Street  -- Goldman and
other places -- that really want a reason to donate,” said
Kuritzky, who also helped raise $100,000 for the Multiple
Myeloma Research Foundation in February by running to the top of
the Empire State Building in New York.  RBC Capital Markets , the event’s title sponsor, was the top
fundraising firm, with more than $381,000 in donations. Goldman
Sachs was second with more than $130,000.  Marc Hodulich, a co-founder of the Decathlon, said having
firms become more involved will help grow the event.  “Every year coming to this point we knew people on Wall
Street were generous,” Hodulich said in an interview after the
trophy presentation ceremony. “But the level of competitors and
their commitment to fundraising and the firms supporting them,
we just started to scratch the tip of the iceberg.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  