-- France’s Hollande Lays Dodo Bird Egg With First Budget
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-29T22:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/france-s-hollande-lays-dodo-bird-egg-with-first-budget.html
On Wednesday,  France  will become the
first European country to impose a tax on financial
transactions. This was a bad idea in the past; it’s a worse one
now.  As the most significant fiscal measure to be enacted thus
far by the Socialist government of President  Francois Hollande ,
it’s also a disturbing sign.  The 0.2 percent tax, loosely modeled on the ideas of the
U.S. economist  James Tobin , will be applied to the purchase of
shares in 109 French companies with market capitalizations of
more than 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion). A similar levy will be
imposed on high-frequency trading and so-called naked sovereign
credit-default swaps.  A Bloomberg News report recently showed that the tax is
larded with loopholes, and the expected revenue is negligible:
170 million euros in 2012 and 500 million euros next year. At
worst, it will frighten away investment and curb needed growth;
at best, it is a distraction from the heavy lifting that
 Europe ’s  second-largest economy  must do to revive.  The measures are part of an amended  2012 budget  that also
includes a special tax on wealth, increased levies on company
dividends, and rollbacks of reforms of France’s unsustainable
social-welfare system and labor laws by the previous
administration.  Spending Cuts  Notably absent are any meaningful  spending cuts . Hollande
has repeatedly vowed to find 50 billion euros in savings to
reduce the deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product next
year from 5.2 percent last year. With the French public sector
already accounting for about 54 percent of gross domestic
product, taxing the rich and showing “big finance” who’s boss
are no substitute for painful, but necessary, fiscal choices.  Hollande knows this to be true: Last week, the  Observatoire
Francais des Conjonctures Economiques , a research organization
with ties to the Socialist Party, said the government was
unlikely to fulfill its promise to simultaneously lower
unemployment and bring the budget into balance by 2017.  France’s competitiveness can only be restored through more
of the kind of unpopular structural change that the last
president,  Nicolas Sarkozy , had begun and that Hollande is now
reversing. These include lengthening the 35-hour work week,
raising the  retirement age , making it easier to hire and fire
employees and cutting back on some entitlements.  Since taking office in May, Hollande has offered a salutary
counterweight to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and her push
for all-austerity as the remedy to the debt crisis gripping
Europe. He was right to say that belt-tightening must be
accompanied by measures to promote growth. Unfortunately, by
putting forward a budget that contains neither, he is fulfilling
Merkel’s worst fears and failing to set the right example for
the rest of Europe.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to  improve the farm bill ;
William D. Cohan on Wall Street’s  arbitration system ;  Noah
Feldman  on the  NCAA’s unconvincing sanctions ;  Albert R. Hunt  on
 rating U.S. presidents ; Luigi Zingales on a  European banking
union ; Raymond Bonner on the  FDA’s immoral policy  on lethal-
injection drugs.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 