-- GM Marketing Chief Resigns as CEO Rebuilds in Slump
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-07-30T20:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/gm-marketing-chief-said-to-leave-as-ceo-revamps-managers.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Marketing
Officer  Joel Ewanick  resigned because he didn’t “meet the
company’s expectations of an employee,” according to an e-
mailed statement by the automaker yesterday.  Greg Martin , a GM spokesman, declined to comment further
last night. GM senior managers, who had been happy with the
marketing executive’s work, requested Ewanick resign after
reviewing a sponsorship agreement that failed to meet company
policies, said a person familiar with the departure, who
requested not to be identified discussing a personnel matter.  “It has been a privilege & honor to work with the GM Team
and to be a small part of  Detroit ’s turnaround,” Ewanick said
in a post on  Twitter . “I wish everyone at GM all the best.”
Ewanick didn’t return e-mail and telephone messages left
yesterday.  The loss of the marketing chief complicates Chief Executive
Dan Akerson’s efforts to stem U.S. market share losses at the
Detroit-based automaker and end deficits in  Europe  that have
totaled $16.4 billion since 1999. Ewanick is departing as a
resurgent  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  is poised to reclaim the title of
world’s largest automaker from GM.  GM slid 1.6 percent to $19.36 at the close in  New York .  Manchester United  Ewanick resigned effective immediately, GM said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. Alan Batey, vice president of U.S.
sales and service, will assume the post on an interim basis,
according to the statement.  CNBC, citing a person it didn’t identify, said Ewanick’s
exit was related to a marketing deal with the  Manchester United 
soccer club.  GM said in May it reached a five-year sponsorship with
Manchester United allowing signage for the company’s  Chevrolet 
brand at the club’s stadium and access to the team for
television, print and other media for use worldwide.  Manchester United said today that Chevrolet will be the
team’s jersey sponsor for seven years  starting  with the 2014-15
season. GM will replace Aon, whose partnership with United began
in the 2010-11 season, United said.  No financial terms were disclosed for either deal.  Under Ewanick, 52, the automaker decided in May to end
advertising on  Facebook Inc. (FB)  after a regular spending review. GM
began discussions about resuming ads on the social-network
website, two people familiar with the talks said this month.
Ewanick also decided not to advertise during the  National
Football League ’s Super Bowl championship game next year on CBS.  Toyota Surges  GM spent $10 million on paid ads on Facebook last year, a
person familiar with the spending has said. That’s a fraction of
the about $1.8 billion GM spent in 2011 on advertising in the
U.S., according to Kantar Media.  The first-half U.S. market share for GM, the largest U.S.
automaker, fell to 18.1 percent from 19.9 percent a year
earlier, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  GM in 2011 regained the title of the world’s largest
automaker by sales after natural disasters in  Asia  curtailed
Toyota’s production of vehicles and parts. Toyota surpassed GM
in worldwide sales in 2008.  Toyota’s worldwide sales surged 34 percent in 2012’s first
half to 4.97 million, ahead  of GM’s 4.67 million, putting the
Toyota City, Japan-based automaker on pace to regain the top
spot.  European Changes  The change in the marketing post comes after Akerson this
month also removed Karl-Friedrich Stracke as head of European
operations.  GM installed Vice Chairman Steve Girsky as interim
president of  GM Europe . Stracke, the man he replaced, remains
with GM and will perform “special assignments” and report to
Akerson, GM said in a statement earlier this month.  Thomas Sedran, a consultant who joined the company’s
Ruesselsheim, Germany-based Opel unit in April, was named deputy
chief executive officer. Sedran is leading Opel until a
permanent chief is found. The automaker’s losses in Europe have
totaled $16.4 billion since 1999.  GM has  plunged  41 percent since its November 2010 initial
public offering. GM reorganized under a U.S.-backed bankruptcy
in 2009 and the U.S. still holds a  32 percent  stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  