-- Greek Official Says Troika to Remain Until Budget Complete
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-07-29T16:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/greek-official-says-troika-to-remain-until-budget-plan-complete.html
Representatives of  Greece ’s
international creditors may extend their visit to the country
until the government has completed work on a two-year, 11.5
billion-euro ($14 billion) budget plan, a Greek finance ministry
official said today.  Members of the so-called troika were originally due to
leave at the end of July and return at the end of August to
complete a review on progress of the government’s budget cuts
for this year and plans for 2013 and 2014, the official said in
an e-mailed statement. That would have led to a significant
delay in the next disbursement of loans to Greece, said the
official, who asked not to be identified.  The official said the troika will assist in identifying
budget savings. They will then depart  Athens  to write the review
that will open the way for the payment of the funds, he said.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and his coalition partners,
 Evangelos Venizelos  of Pasok and Fotis Kouvelis of Democratic
Left, are to meet again on Monday, July 30, to determine the
savings required to receive the funds pledged under Greece’s two
rescue packages totaling 240 billion euros.  Coalition leaders have agreed on most of the austerity
measures demanded by creditors and are now considering pension
and wage cuts to find the final 1.5 billion euros of savings
still needed, Reuters reported today, citing an unidentified
individual close to the talks.  Greece, which held consecutive elections in May and June as
public opposition to spending cuts grew, risks running out of
money without the disbursement of 4.2 billion euros due last
month as the first installment of a 31 billion-euro transfer.
Citigroup Inc. said last week there’s now a 90 percent chance
Greece will leave the euro in the next 12 months to 18 months.  If Greece doesn’t stick to its agreements, there’s no other
solution than for it to leave the euro area and introduce its
own currency to regain competitiveness by devaluation, Hermann Otto Solms, deputy president of  Germany ’s lower house of
parliament, told WirtschaftsWoche in an interview published
today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  