-- Growth Concern Widens Gap in Volatility Indexes: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-07-30T03:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/growth-concern-widens-gap-in-volatility-indexes-china-overnight.html
Options dealers are charging the
 biggest premium  in four months to protect against losses in
Chinese companies amid increasing concern the world’s second-
biggest economy is slowing down.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. has lost 3.4 percent in July and the
Hang Seng  China  Enterprises  Index (SHCOMP)  slid 1.8 percent through July
27, headed for its third monthly slump. Concern losses will
worsen has lifted the AlphaShares Chinese Volatility Index,
derived from options on companies trading in  Hong Kong , to 23.13
on July 26, 32 percent higher than the Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index, near the widest gap since March.  A government report on July 27 showed Chinese industrial
companies’ profits fell for a third month in June, as its
economy expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter, the slowest
pace in three years.  New Oriental Education & Technology Group (EDU) 
Inc. led the monthly slump in U.S.-listed peers with a record 51
percent drop. It said July 17 the U.S. regulator was
investigating into it, and short-selling firm Muddy Waters LLC
followed with a report containing allegations of fraud.  “You have the combination of fears that China is going to
have a hard landing and some Chinese companies have questionable
accounting,”  Kevin Carter , chief executive officer of Baochuan
Capital Management LLC, which compiles the China volatility
index, said by phone July 27. “There’s a lot of negative
headlines about economic figures. Smaller, private Chinese
companies have done worse than the bigger ones, with their
valuations at record lows.”  China ETF Rises  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced 2.6 percent last week
to $34.12, for a gain this month of 1.3 percent. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 1.7 percent last week to 1,385.97.  AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc. (ASIA) , a Beijing-based developer of
telecommunication software, may report today a 35 percent
decline in adjusted profit for the second quarter, the average
estimate of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg showed. Ctrip.com
International Inc. said last week second-quarter net income fell
55 percent from a year ago.  AsiaInfo, which sells to China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.,
China Mobile Ltd. and China Telecom Corp., may say sales rose 15
percent from a year ago to $127 million, analysts predicted.  “AsiaInfo’s margins are under pressure from wage inflation
and because there isn’t a lot of pricing power,” James E.
Friedman, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group in New York
said in an interview last week.  Growth Slowdown  The company’s investor relations director Phyllis Feng, in
an e-mail on July 26, said that “wage inflation and increasing
headcount is the factor for the net-income growth slowdown.”  ZTE Corp. (763)  was the biggest decliner on the  Hong Kong stock
gauge  for Chinese enterprises after the company was  downgraded 
at nine securities firms. It said in a July 13 regulatory filing
net profit for the first six months this year dropped as much as
80 percent from a year earlier due to reduced investment income,
foreign exchange losses and delayed network contracts.  “American investors are extremely bearish toward China. If
there’s any slightly bad news about a company, the stock would
fall like a stone,” Michael Ding, lead manager of the China
Region Fund at U.S. Global Investors Inc., which oversees $2.2
billion, said in a telephone interview from  San Antonio ,  Texas 
on July 27. “In this macro trend of economic growth slowdown,
corporate revenue and earnings will slow down in general, and
that will be reflected in weak stock prices.”  Net income for China’s 117 central government-run companies
fell 16 percent in the first half from a year earlier, the
nation’s state assets supervision agency said July 20 on its
 website .  Barclays Forecast  Barclays Capital  forecast another 25 basis-point cut in
China’s interest rate, from its previous prediction of no more
rate reductions this year, economists headed by  Jian Chang  said
in a July 27 report, citing a worsening external outlook.  China has reduced benchmark  interest rates  three times
since July last year, and has lowered required reserve-ratio for
banks by 1 percentage point this year to spur lending.  Seaspan Corp. (SSW) , a Hong Kong-based container ship operator,
is due to report second-quarter results on Aug. 1. Adjusted
profit grew 6 percent from a year ago to $30.4 million, from
$56.6 million in the previous three months, according to the
average prediction of five analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The Bloomberg gauge of the Chinese shares traded in the
U.S. rose 2.5 percent to 88.13 on July 27 for a five-day gain of
2.3 percent, the first increase in four weeks. The Shanghai
Composite Index added 0.1 percent to 2,128.77, ending the week
down 1.8 percent. The gauge has fallen for six weeks in a row.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  