-- Miners Should Cut Back Spending as Prices Fall, AFI Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-07-29T01:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/miners-should-cut-back-project-pipeline-on-price-falls-afi-says.html
Australian Foundation Investment Co. (AFI) ,
a fund owning shares in  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group,
said it would encourage companies to cut back on investments in
new operations as commodity prices fall.  Mining companies will start to question the economics of
projects as prices fall and costs rise, Ross Barker, chief
executive officer of the listed Melbourne-based fund with a
market value of A$4.5 billion ($4.7 billion), told the
Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s Inside Business program. “That
is obviously something we would encourage because we don’t want
to spend large amounts of money and not get good returns.”  Companies are reassessing spending plans as commodity
prices drop, amid concern over growth in Europe and  China , the
biggest metals consumer. BHP will delay approval of a $33
billion mine expansion in  Australia  for two years until 2014
because of falling commodity  prices , the Australian newspaper
reported yesterday, citing a document prepared by an
unidentified consultancy.  “There is much more economic growth to feed through China
and other emerging economies but on the other hand the period of
huge cash flows from very high commodity prices will be coming
to an end,” Barker said. “There are still an enormously large
number of mining projects in train. The big question for
immediate to long-term investors is how many of those will
actually get up.”  China’s Economy  China’s economy  expanded at its slowest pace for six
quarters in the three months to the end of June. BHP, the
world’s largest mining company, needs to be flexible in the face
of change, CEO Marius Kloppers said last month.  BHP’s  net income may have declined  to $17.4 billion in the
12 months to June 30, according to the mean of 18 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, from a record $23.6 billion a
year earlier. Rio de Janeiro-based Vale SA, the second-biggest
mining company, last week posted its lowest quarterly profit in
more than two years because of falling prices. Net income fell
59 percent in the second quarter to $2.6 billion, Vale said July
26.  The board of Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton  has been due to
decide on proceeding with the Olympic Dam copper-uranium-gold
mine expansion by the end of this year. Kloppers warned in May
that rising costs and easing commodity prices may change the
economics of certain projects.  Iron-Ore Port  Aside from Olympic Dam, BHP’s board is also due to decide
on two other major projects -- an iron-ore port expansion in
Western Australia and a potash project in  Canada  -- by the end
of the year. The three projects may cost a combined $68 billion
to build, according to a May 23 estimate from Deutsche Bank AG.
The bank estimated Olympic Dam alone will cost $33 billion.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the largest holder of BHP’s Australian
stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, said in March it
trimmed holdings due to concerns that spending on Olympic Dam
and shale gas assets may curb returns.  Rio Tinto  in April withdrew from talks to take part in a
A$9 billion ($9.4 billion) port expansion in Queensland where
some of its coal mines are located, citing economic volatility
and higher costs. Rio this month said it will shed jobs at the
Clermont thermal coal mine in Queensland state because of rising
costs and falling prices. Thermal coal prices have declined 20
percent since the start of the year.  Rio CEO Tom Albanese said project costs in Australia had as
much as doubled.  “Increasing costs are an industry wide problem,
particularly in hotspots like here in Queensland,” Albanese
said May 10 during the company’s annual meeting in Brisbane.
“We probably cannot develop as many projects as we could have
done a couple of years ago spending the same level of money.
That means we have to be more selective.”  BHP will fall short of a five-year spending target of $80
billion for building mines and expanding assets as it sees
commodity prices declining, Chairman Jac Nasser said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  