-- Hiring Probably Limited by Slowing Growth: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-29T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/hiring-probably-limited-by-slowing-growth-u-s-economy-preview.html
The pace of hiring in July probably
failed to reduce the U.S. jobless rate, which has been stuck
above 8 percent for more than three years, economists said
before a report this week.  A payroll increase of 100,000 workers would follow an
80,000 gain in June, according to the median forecast of 68
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of Labor Department
figures Aug. 3. Unemployment is projected to hold at 8.2
percent. Other data this week may show  manufacturing  stagnated
in July and  consumer confidence  fell for a fifth month.  Federal Reserve policy makers will meet ahead of the jobs
report to decide whether additional stimulus is needed to combat
a slowing economy as  Europe ’s debt crisis lingers. Companies
such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  are among those warning they’ll
have to reduce headcounts later this year in the run up to the
so-called U.S. fiscal cliff of automatic tax increases and
government spending cuts.  “The pace of hiring is pretty lackluster,” said  Omair Sharif , a U.S. economist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “It’s going to be a painfully slow grind lower on
the  unemployment rate . Firms have become cautious as the U.S. is
slowing a fair bit and global markets are getting worse.”  Payroll gains slowed to an average 75,000 in the April to
June period, down from 226,000 in the first quarter and the
weakest in almost two years, Labor Department figures show.  The jobless rate has exceeded 8 percent since February
2009, the longest stretch in monthly records going back to 1948.  ‘Frustratingly Slow’  “Given that growth is projected to be not much above the
rate needed to absorb new entrants to the  labor force , the
reduction in the unemployment rate seems likely to be
frustratingly slow,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
testimony to Congress this month. The central bank is “prepared
to take further action as appropriate to promote a stronger
economic recovery.”  Bernanke and his colleagues on the  Federal Open Market
Committee , who have pledged to keep the benchmark  interest rate 
low until late 2014, meet on July 31 and Aug 1.  Stocks climbed for a third straight week on speculation
that European policy makers may take steps to ease the region’s
debt crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.7 percent
last week to close at 1,385.97 on July 27.  Employment and the economy are central themes in the
presidential campaign, with President  Barack Obama  and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  debating whose policies would
best revive the expansion.  Economy Slows  A Commerce Department report July 27 showed gross domestic
product grew at a 1.5 percent annual rate in the second quarter
after rising at a 2 percent pace in the first three months of
the year.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
GDP, also grew 1.5 percent, the slowest pace in a year and down
from a 2.4 percent advance from January to March.  Americans remained cautious about spending in the final
month of the quarter, Commerce Department figures may show on
July 31. Purchases rose 0.1 percent in June following no change
in May, even as  incomes  climbed 0.4 percent, the most in three
months, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  The soft outlook on employment is damping moods. The
Conference Board’s index of consumer  confidence  fell in July for
a fifth consecutive month, the longest period of declines since
the first half of 2008, economists forecast before the July 31
report.  Projecting Cuts  The fiscal cliff raises the risk some employers will cut
back. Lockheed Martin, the world’s largest defense contractor,
may have to dismiss about 10,000 of its 120,000 employees if
lawmakers don’t act before $1.2 trillion in across-the-board
cuts to federal spending, said Robert Stevens, the Bethesda,
Maryland-based company’s chief executive officer.  “Our best judgment is that we may have to notify a
substantially higher number of our employees beginning late in
the third quarter of this year that they may not have a job if
sequestration takes place,” Stevens said in July in prepared
testimony for lawmakers.  Manufacturing, a pillar of the recovery, may also offer
less support to hiring and investment as global demand softens.
The Institute for Supply Management Inc.’s factory index rose to
50.2 from 49.7 in June, according to the Bloomberg survey
 median . A reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion
and contraction. The report will be released on Aug. 1.  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM group’s  services  index, which
covers almost 90 percent of the economy, was little changed in
July from the prior month’s 52.1 reading that was the weakest
since January 2010, according to economists surveyed. The gauge
is due on Aug. 3.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  