-- Liv Tyler, Robot, Mariah Carey, Russell Simmons, Hamptons
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-07-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/liv-tyler-robot-mariah-carey-russell-simmons-hamptons.html
Liv Tyler, actress and daughter of
Aerosmith’s  Steven Tyler , doesn’t like flat television screens.  “Everyone looks short and wide,” Tyler said Friday in the
pebbled courtyard of Jerry Della Femina’s oceanfront home in
 East Hampton , New York. “I’m sad I got rid of my box TV with
the knobs and dials. That one I could have taught my kid how to
use. It had an on/off button. I guess I’m old-fashioned.”  Wearing a black Givenchy cocktail dress with ribbons and
zippers, Tyler joined  Frank Langella , Susan Sarandon and James Marsden for a party and screening of their film “Robot &
Frank,” in theaters in August.  The party was organized by the  Cinema Society  and sponsored
by Rent the Runway Inc.,  founded  by Harvard Business School
classmates Jennifer Hyman and Jennifer Fleiss. Waiters served an
Italian supper and spread out blankets on the grass for guests
watching the movie. The actors sat on sofas around the pool.  The film is set in the near future. TV screens are very
thin, libraries are bookless, and robots are health-care aides
who cook, clean, garden -- and pick locks.  Big Bang  Another robot turned up Saturday night at The Big Bang, a
benefit for the Watermill Center,  Robert Wilson ’s artists
compound in Watermill, New York.  This one steals from a grocery store and gets a lap dance,
in a video shown on a big, boxy television set.  “‘Avatar’ is a critique of technology,” said the video’s
maker, artist Tucker Marder. “The awkward, almost handicapping
effect of the puppet mirrors many of the negative effects of
things like Facebook and video chatting.”  At Watermill Center, the artworks included a man with a
soccer-ball head moving back and forth between nets, a woman
rolling around in the dirt, and breast and penis sculptures.  The Rush Philanthropic Art Foundation’s Art for Life
benefit was just as colorful in a more mass-appeal way.  Mariah
Carey  was honored, and Anita Baker, Salt-N-Pepa and Diggy
Simmons, son of Reverend Run, performed. Balloon octopuses and
starfish hung from the ceiling.  In these settings, there was optimism about the future.  “Hopefully it will be bright,” said  Russell Simmons ,
impresario of the Art for Life benefit, which took place at his
East Hampton home. “The economy is going to go up and we’ll
find new ways to feed the hungry.”  “Robots and repair,” said Kyle DeWoody, co-founder of the
retailer Grey Area.  For now, though, there are big, flashy benefits to revel
in, as well as books -- Zosia Mamet of  HBO ’s “Girls” said she
is reading “Moby-Dick” -- and sunsets.  Sarandon and Langella watched a beautiful one while they
sat on a bale of hay on the beach.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 