-- Japan Trainmakers Get India, Indonesia Edge From Advisor
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-07-29T15:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/japan-trainmakers-get-india-indonesia-edge-from-advisor.html
Japan International Consultants for
Transportation Co.  is working on feasibility studies for high-
speed trains in India,  Indonesia  and  Vietnam  as it tries to help
Japanese rail companies boost sales overseas.  The projects include separate lines from the Indian city of
Chennai to Hyderabad and Ernakulam, said Masanori Tanaka,
president of JIC, which is owned by  East Japan Railway Co. (9020)  and
other Japanese train operators. The Indonesian track would link
Jakarta and Bandung, he said in a July 27 interview in  Tokyo .  The advisor bases its studies on Japanese technologies and
this bolsters Japanese companies’ odds of winning contracts for
any lines that are subsequently built, Tanaka said. The company
was designed to replicate the success of Paris-based consultant
Systra in bolstering French train exports as Japanese suppliers
try to offset slowing domestic demand.  “There’s a higher chance when the plan is based on a
Japanese system,” Tanaka said. Still, it’s “not certain”
Japanese companies will win orders as the ultimate decision is
made by the customer following a tender, he said.  JIC is working on 18 rail projects in total, including
overseeing construction of lines in Jakarta, Cairo, China,
Istanbul and  Ho Chi Minh City , Tanaka said. The company is
aiming for sales of about 1 billion yen ($13 million) in its
first fiscal year, which started in April, he said.  Rail v. Roads  The company is focusing on Asian markets as economic
growth, urbanization and rising road congestion are spurring
interest in trains, he said.  “ Developing countries  are at a stage where they are
deciding whether big cities should become car societies or train
societies,” he said. “We’re getting in on the planning
stages.”  India is studying a total of six high-speed lines,
including the two that JIC is assisting with, he said. Vietnam
is reassessing plans for high-speed rail after a 1,550-kilometer
(963 miles) line from Hanoi to Ho Chi Minh City was rejected by
lawmakers in 2010.  Separately, Tokyo-based  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and partner John Laing
won a 4.5 billion pound ($7 billion) train order from the U.K.
last week. A  Nippon Sharyo Ltd. (7102)  venture won an order for about
300 trains from Taiwan in 2011.  The total global market for rail equipment may increase 2.4
percent a year to 160.5 billion euros ($200 billion) by 2016,
from an average of 136 billion euros annually between 2007 and
2009, according to the  Association of the European Rail
Industry .  Systra, part-owned by rail operators Societe Nationale des
Chemins de Fer Francais and Regie Autonome des Transports
Parisiens, had sales of  416 million euros  in 2011. The company
was formed in 1957.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 