-- Japanese Stock Futures Rise as European Debt Concern Ebbs
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-07-29T23:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/japanese-stock-futures-rise-as-european-debt-concern-ebbs.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures rose amid optimism European policy makers will act to
ease the region’s debt crisis, boosting the earnings outlook for
exporters.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Canon Inc. (7751) , a camera maker
that gets 80 percent of its sales outside Japan, climbed 1.7
percent. ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining
company, advanced 1.8 percent as metals prices rose. Bank of
Yokohama may be active in Tokyo trading after BNP Paribas SA
rated the shares buy in new coverage.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 8,690 in Chicago on July 27, up from 8,560
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,700 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index advanced 1.1 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.2 percent in Wellington. Global equities rallied on July
27 after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  said their countries are “bound by the
deepest duty” to keep the euro area intact.  “Supportive comments from both Merkel and Hollande were
timely,” said George Boubouras, Melbourne-based head of
investment strategy at UBS AG’s Australian unit. The Swiss bank
has about $1.5 trillion in assets under management. “There is a
strong political and financial will for the euro. Actions that
address the EU challenges will create the opportunity for a
sustainable rally ahead.”  Europe Action  Asian stocks are poised to join the global rally after two
central bank officials said ECB President  Mario Draghi  will hold
talks with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann in an effort to
overcome the biggest stumbling block to a new raft of measures
including bond purchases.  Merkel and Monti “agreed that Germany and Italy will do
everything to protect the euro area,” German government
spokesman Georg Streiter said in an e-mailed statement yesterday
in Berlin. Monti agreed to travel to Berlin for talks with
Merkel in the second half of August, Streiter said.  Merkel and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  agreed the
European Union’s summit conclusions last month must be
implemented “as quickly as possible” after speaking by phone
on July 28.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who also
heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said the
region’s temporary rescue fund and the ECB are preparing to act
together to reduce borrowing costs,  Sueddeutsche Zeitung 
reported, citing an interview.  U.S. Growth  In the U.S., data showed the economy expanded at a slower
pace in the second quarter as a softening job market prompted
Americans to curb spending.  Consumer confidence  in July dropped
to the lowest level this year, according to a separate report.
Cooling growth makes it harder to reduce unemployment, helping
explain why Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said
policy makers stand ready with more stimulus if needed.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 10 percent from this
year’s highest level Feb. 29 through July 27 amid concern
economies in China and the U.S. are slowing as Europe’s debt
crisis deepens. This dragged the value of shares on the regional
gauge to 11.7 times estimated earnings, compared with a multiple
of 13.5 for the S&P 500 and 11 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent
today. The gauge rose last week, capping the S&P 500’s longest
rally since March, amid optimism Europe’s policy makers will act
to ease the region’s debt crisis and better-than-expected
earnings from Caterpillar Inc. to Moody’s Corp.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
climbed 0.7 percent on July 27, a third day of gains.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 2.6 percent to 88.13, its
biggest advance in a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  