-- NCAA Needs to Dethrone Omnipotent College Coaches
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-07-29T22:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/ncaa-needs-to-dethrone-omnipotent-college-coaches.html
The problem with the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association ’s sanctions against  Pennsylvania
State University  isn’t that they punish student-athletes who had
no role in the coverup of Jerry Sandusky’s sexual abuse of boys.  It’s not that they are meaningless, “reversing” past
victories that took place on the field, or that they are too
harsh, damaging Penn State’s football program even after the
death of former coach  Joe Paterno .  The problem is much more basic: The punishment bears no
meaningful relationship to the crime.  Punishment is generally thought to have one or more of
three purposes: retribution, deterrence and prevention. The
NCAA’s sanctions don’t credibly accomplish any of these goals.  Retribution might not be the right job for the NCAA, which,
despite its pretensions, is neither God nor an organ of the
government. Suppose, however, that the true goal of the
sanctions is to help right the moral wrong of the Sandusky
coverup by punishing the malefactors. Because money doesn’t have
that sort of profound weight, the moral piece of the sanctions
must surely be the reversal of  Penn State ’s football wins since
1998.  The trouble is that it is almost impossible to say Penn
State’s football victories were a result of the coverup. Had
Paterno’s teams lost most of their games instead of winning
them, Sandusky would have acted just as he did; and it is safe
to presume that Paterno and the rest of the university would
have shown just as much willful blindness to Sandusky’s
wrongdoing. It is difficult to see how punishment could be
morally satisfying when it is so disconnected from the action
being punished.  Winning Philosophy  At most one might say that the coverup was a product of a
“win at all costs” philosophy. But when one considers
Paterno’s relatively strong record of ensuring that his athletes
graduated, and the relative absence of recruitment cheating in
Penn State’s football history, it becomes clear that Paterno
didn’t, in fact, believe in winning at all costs.  It is difficult to plumb the depths of his thinking in
letting Sandusky continue his crimes. Nevertheless, it seems
safe to assume that Paterno allowed his subordinate to get away
with it because Paterno himself wanted to avoid embarrassment --
and perhaps because he didn’t want the shame to tarnish the
reputation of the program. No doubt he felt shame himself;
perhaps this contributed to his own moral error of denial and
coverup.  Deterrence is quickly dispensed with, too. The  $60 million 
fine represents about one year of football revenue. Once the
money is recouped, Penn State football can be back in business.
As my former teacher Stephen L. Carter points out, if deterrence
were the  goal , the sanctions should have been much greater.  That leaves prevention, and here the NCAA sanctions look
even more inapposite. What, really, would prevent Penn State --
or any other major college sports program -- from finding itself
in this situation again?  The answer is obvious: Change the power structure that
makes a football or basketball coach the most important and
influential person in the university. At bottom, what allowed
the Penn State scandal to occur wasn’t human frailty, but the de
facto independence and control exercised by Paterno relative to
the rest of the university. He didn’t report what was going on
because, quite simply, he knew that he didn’t have to. If rumors
reached the university’s administration, as it seems they did,
Paterno knew the university could not and would not act against
him.  Professorial Salaries  Could the NCAA change this power structure? You bet it
could. It could require that coaches be paid no more than, say,
the highest paid professor at the university. (Suppress your
gasps, please. I know it sounds un-American.) Wouldn’t that lead
the best college coaches to go pro? Yes, it probably would --
and that would be a good thing. In the corporate world of the
 National Football League  and the  National Basketball
Association , the coach is just one important employee in the
organization -- and not the most important or the highest paid.  The consequence is that few professional coaches are
surrounded by the cult of personality that we know so well from
college sports. (Quick, how many current NFL coaches can you
name other than your home team’s?) Those professional coaches
who do have a cult either profess a philosophy of Zen
minimalism, a la  Phil Jackson , late of the  Los Angeles Lakers ,
or are so fanatically competitive that they are hated and loved
in equal parts, like  Bill Belichick  of the  New England Patriots .  Make no mistake about it: The cult of the coach is the
problem. It is heartwarming that, in the U.S., the title
“coach” has some of the same honorific qualities as
“pastor,” “doctor” or “president.” But the most famous and
prominent college coaches cannot be expected to behave
responsibly when their institutional power is essentially
absolute. When the university president is an unknown compared
with his or her coach, is paid far less and doesn’t enjoy the
same charismatic authority in the eyes of the alumni, there is
no realistic way for the president to supervise that coach or
his (and it is almost always his) program. The corruption of the
incorruptible Paterno is a story of the absence of any
structural check on his authority.  So why doesn’t the NCAA change this? Because the coach’s
cult is good for business. College athletes play for a maximum
of four years, and the best football and basketball players
generally don’t stay that long. This is barely enough time to
get them nationally known.  Rivalries between colleges can be branded, of course -- but
as any marketer knows, personalities sell better than abstract
brands. The coaches are a crucial part of the product. That is a
part of why the coaches make the big bucks. And in America, a
high salary is a part of celebrity. This vicious cycle should
end. There are, of course, some cult coaches with sterling
reputations. But remember: Until year ago, Paterno was one of
them.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  France ’s  misguided
transaction tax  and on how to  improve the farm bill ; William D.
Cohan on Wall Street’s  arbitration system ;  Albert R. Hunt  on
 rating U.S. presidents ; Luigi Zingales on a  European banking
union ; Raymond Bonner on the  FDA’s immoral policy  on lethal-
injection drugs.  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 