-- New U.K. Strategy Urged as Triple-Dip Recession Predicted
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-29T09:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/new-u-k-strategy-urged-as-triple-dip-recession-predicted.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne was urged by businesses and his political opponents to
reconsider the U.K.’s austerity strategy, as economists warned
the nation could face a “triple-dip” recession.  The London-based Sunday Times newspaper reported
economists’ concerns that the euro-area crisis and a possible
Greek exit from the region could push the U.K. into a recession
again next spring. The opposition  Labour Party ’s finance
spokesman  Ed Balls  renewed his attack on Osborne, saying the
chancellor’s policies are “flat-lining” economic recovery.  Osborne is facing renewed criticism after figures released
last week showed Britain’s recession deepened in the second
quarter, prompting questions about his economic plans and
whether he should remain at the Treasury. Gross domestic product
fell 0.7 percent from the first quarter, the third consecutive
quarterly decline.  “If last week’s figures won’t make the government wake up
and change course, then I don’t know what will,” Balls wrote in
an article for the London-based Sun newspaper today. “But the
longer they stick to this failing plan, the heavier the price
our country will pay.”  Osborne’s Labour opponents say his fiscal plans are too
harsh at a time when households and banks are weighed down by
debt. Taking longer to bring the budget into balance would have
paid for tax and spending measures and sustained  consumer
confidence , they say.  Deepening Recession  “Last week’s figures showed that over the last two years
 David Cameron  and  George Osborne  have turned Britain’s recovery
into a flat-lining economy and now a deep and deepening
recession,” Balls wrote.  Yesterday, Osborne said he will maintain the U.K.’s
austerity program even as the economy remains weak after
 Standard & Poor’s  reaffirmed the nation’s AAA credit rating.  A  YouGov Plc (YOU)  poll for today’s Sunday Times newspaper put
Labour at 42 percent, ahead of Cameron’s Conservatives at 33
percent. The Tories’ junior coalition partners, the  Liberal
Democrats , were at 9 percent, just one point ahead of UKIP,
which campaigns for independence from the European Union.  The Sunday Mirror newspaper reported a call from the
 Confederation of British Industry , representing businesses,
which wants Osborne to stimulate the economy by investing in
infrastructure projects such as roads, ports and nuclear power
stations.  Fingers Crossed  Writing in the Mail on Sunday newspaper, James Dyson,
chairman of Dyson Ltd., which manufactures vacuum cleaners, also
urged Osborne to invest in infrastructure projects. “When it
comes to infrastructure, we seem content with a fingers-crossed
attitude,” he wrote.  The Mail on Sunday reported that Osborne is considering
changing planning laws, which restrict new building, to help
economic recovery, even amid opposition from heritage and
environmental pressure groups. The newspaper, without
identifying the source of its information, said a list of
economic options is being drawn up for September.  Balls told the Independent on Sunday newspaper in an
interview that he thinks Liberal Democrat Business Secretary
 Vince Cable , who last week said he would “probably” make a
good chancellor, regards Osborne’s economic strategy as “deeply
foolhardy,” adding that the Liberal Democrats are locked in a
political and economic “tragedy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  