-- Lochte Is Second in Freestyle Heats; Gymnast Fails Drug Test
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-07-29T16:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/lochte-is-second-in-freestyle-heats-gymnast-fails-drug-test.html
U.S. swimmer  Ryan Lochte , aiming for
his second gold medal at the London Olympics, qualified second
for tonight’s semifinals of the 200-meter freestyle. Uzbek
gymnast Luiza Galiulina was suspended for a positive drug test.  Lochte, 27, who yesterday won the 400-meter individual
medley, qualified for the semifinals behind Sun Yang of China.
Britain’s defending champion Rebecca Adlington scraped into
tonight’s women’s 400-meter freestyle final in eighth place.  Kimberly Rhode of the U.S. set an Olympic record in winning
the women’s skeet shooting event. China’s Wenjun Guo took the
women’s 10-meter air pistol title, with compatriots Wu Minxia
and He Zi taking gold in the women’s synchronized 3-meter
springboard diving.  Marianne Vos of the Netherlands outsprinted Britain’s
Elizabeth Armitstead and Russia’s Olga Zabelinskaya in the
women’s cycling road race. Armitstead’s silver is the first medal
for the host nation at this year’s games.  Paula Radcliffe , holder of the women’s marathon world
record, will miss her chance to win an Olympic medal for Britain
after being  ruled out  of the event with a foot injury. Britain
will seek approval to replace the 38-year-old with Freya Murray
for the race on Aug. 5.  U.S. Basketball Win  Kevin Durant  scored 22 points to lead the U.S. men’s
basketball team to a 98-71 victory over France in their opening
basketball game.  Kevin Love  had 14 points and  Kobe Bryant  scored
10. Ali Traore got 12 points and  Tony Parker  added 10 for France.  Nigeria defeated Tunisia 60-56 in the other Group A match,
while in Group B, Brazil held on to beat Australia 75-71.  Galiulina, participating in the artistic gymnastics, tested
positive for the banned drug furosemide in a urine sample she
gave on July 25, the  International Olympic Committee  said today
in an e-mailed statement.  A final decision will be made about the 20-year-old’s
punishment by the disciplinary commission after the receipt of
her backup testing sample, the IOC said. She’s the second
athlete since the games started to be banned because of a failed
drug test after Albanian weightlifter Hysen Pulaku was suspended
yesterday.  Shooting Record  Rhode, who took silver in Beijing four years ago, finished
with a record final score of 99 after setting a qualifying
record with 74. Ning Wei of China won the silver with a score of
91. Danka Bartekova of  Slovakia  won a shootout with Marina
Belikova of Russia to take the bronze after they tied with 90.  Wenjun, 28, had 488.1 points in the 10-meter air pistol.
 France ’s Celine Goberville, 25, got the silver after beating
Ukraine’s Olena Kostevych in a shootout after they tied with
486.6 points. He and Wu finished ahead of the American team of
Kelci Bryant and Abigail Johnston, and Canada’s Jennifer Abel
and Emilie Heymans in the diving.  Three riders led a breakaway in the cycling. With the main
pack unable to catch them, it became a fight between the trio
for the medal positions. Vos accelerated toward the line and
Armitstead was unable to bridge the gap, with Zabelinskaya taking
bronze.  At the Aquatics Centre, Lochte clocked one minute, 46.45
seconds to qualify for the semifinals of the 200-meter freestyle.
Sun Yang, 20, posted the fastest time of 1:46:24.  Adlington Struggles  In the women’s 400-meter freestyle, French 22-year-old
Camille Muffat had the quickest swim in the heats with 4:03.29.
Adlington, a 23-year-old who also won the 800-meter freestyle in
Beijing and was one of the favorites to defend her 400-meter
crown, finished in a time of 4:05:75. Federica Pellegrini, the
world champion from  Italy , made the finals in seventh place.  World champions Australia won the women’s 400-meter
freestyle relay heats, ahead of Olympic champions the U.S. and
 Russia . The finals are tonight.  U.S. swimmer Missy Franklin qualified for tonight’s
semifinals of the 100-meter backstroke in the second-fastest
time. Australia’s Emily Seebohm, 20, was fastest with a time of
58.23 seconds. Franklin finished in 59.37 seconds.  Franklin, a 17-year-old from Colorado, has the fastest time
in the world this year in both the 100-meter and 200-meter
backstroke. She’s competing in seven events, the most a U.S.
female swimmer has ever tried.  Among other sports in which gold medals will be decided
today are archery, judo and weightlifting.  There are eight matches in the men’s soccer tournament
today, with Spain, which was upset by Japan in its opening match,
playing  Honduras .  The roof was closed on Centre Court at Wimbledon for the
tennis competition because of rain in London, which delayed play
on other courts.  Britain’s  Andy Murray  won his first-round match against
Switzerland’s Stanislas Wawrinka 6-3, 6-3. Germany’s  Julia
Goerges  upset Poland’s Agnieszka Radwanska 7-5, 6-7 (5/7), 6-4
in the women’s competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 