-- Oil Trades Near Week High on Stimulus Outlook, Mideast Unrest
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-07-30T07:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/oil-trades-near-week-high-before-central-banks-meet-on-economy.html
Oil traded near the highest level in
a week in New York on speculation U.S. and European policy
makers will act to boost growth and concern that unrest in the
 Middle East  may spread and disrupt supplies.  Futures were little changed, heading for the first monthly
gain in three. The  European Central Bank  and the U.S. Federal
Reserve are scheduled to discuss the economy separately this
week. The Syrian government’s use of “indiscriminate violence”
will hasten its collapse, U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
said. The Middle East produces about a third of the world’s
crude.  Enbridge Energy Partners LP (EEP)  said it’s unsure how soon it
can resume a pipeline that supplies oil to Chicago-area
refineries after a leak.  “The market is riding high on the talk of stimulus,” said
 Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer of Barratt’s
Bulletin, a commodity-markets newsletter in Sydney. “We also
have some geopolitical concerns.”  Crude for September delivery was at $90.25 a barrel, up 12
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 3:04 p.m. Singapore time. It earlier advanced as much as 82
cents, or 0.9 percent, to $90.95 a barrel. The contract climbed
0.8 percent to $90.13 on July 27 for a fourth day of gains and
the highest close since July 20. Prices are up 6.2 percent this
month.  Brent oil for September settlement was at $106.20 a barrel,
down 26 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European benchmark crude was at a $15.95 premium to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade. The spread was $16.34
on July 27, the widest since May 22.  ‘Hanging Man’  Oil’s advance in New York may stall as a bearish “hanging
man” candlestick last week signals a loss of technical
momentum, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures began
a descent to the lowest level in almost nine months after a
similar chart formation in the last week of April.  The ECB’s Governing Council is scheduled to meet Aug. 2 in
Frankfurt and gauge the effect of its July decision to cut the
benchmark  interest rate  to a record low of 0.75 percent. The
Fed’s Federal Open Market Committee will consider the need for
more stimulus at a two-day meeting that concludes Aug. 1.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  meets with U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in Frankfurt today. Draghi is also
trying to persuade policy makers to agree on a multi-pronged
approach to reduce bond yields in countries such as Spain and
Italy, two central bank officials said July 27, asking not to be
identified because the talks are private.  Syrian Fighting  In  Syria , government forces stepped up their assault on
rebels in Aleppo, the nation’s commercial hub, and Damascus,
killing at least 120 people, according to the Local Coordination
Committees, an activist group. Panetta spoke to reporters
yesterday as he started a five-day trip to  Tunisia , Egypt,
 Israel  and Jordan to discuss security in the region.  The Enbridge leak of about 1,200 barrels of oil on July 27
was on Line 14 near Grand Marsh,  Wisconsin , about 60 miles (96
kilometers) north of the state capital of Madison. The pipeline
has a capacity of 317,600 barrels a day that mostly supplies
light crude, the company said in a statement.  Hedge funds  increased their bets on rising crude prices
last week, according to data from the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission. Net-long positions in oil futures, held by
money managers advanced by 7,471, or 5.6 percent, to 140,636
futures and options combined in the seven days ended July 24.  The average price of regular gasoline at U.S. filling
stations rose 9.55 cents in the past two weeks to $3.5058 a
gallon, according to Lundberg Survey Inc.  The survey covers the two weeks ended July 27 and is based
on information received from about 2,500 stations by the
Camarillo, California-based company. The average is down 19.55
cents from a year earlier. Gasoline is 46.13 cents below the
year-to-date high of $3.9671 on April 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  