-- Old Mutual’s Futuregrowth Buys Farms as Food Prices Rise
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-07-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/old-mutual-s-futuregrowth-buys-farms-as-food-prices-rise.html
Futuregrowth Asset Management, a
unit of insurer  Old Mutual Plc (OML)  that oversees 110 billion rand
($13.3 billion) in fixed income investments, is buying farms
in  Africa  to benefit from surging food prices.  Futuregrowth’s United Farmers’ Fund has spent 450 million
rand buying nine fruit and vegetable farms in South Africa since
December 2010. It’s now considering investing in a cattle ranch
in Botswana, a coffee plantation in Ethiopia and fruit and
vegetable farms in  Burkina Faso , Morocco and Senegal, according
to Duncan Vink, one of the fund’s founders and managing
directors.  “There is a big pipeline coming,” with the fund planning
to grow its assets to about $500 million, Vink said in an
interview in Cape Town on July 25. “The investment thesis is
there. There will be increasing food scarcity long-term, a
growing worldwide population.”  Corn surged to a record $8 a bushel in Chicago on July 23
as the worst drought in half a century scorched crops in the
U.S., the largest grower, increasing concerns about grain
shortages. World demand will total 878 million metric tons this
year, more than the anticipated harvest of 864 million tons, the
International Grains Council estimates.  Futuregrowth seeks to generate returns of at least 10
percent more than  South Africa ’s annual inflation rate, which
was 5.5 percent in June, from its farms, which are leased out.  Tracking Asia  Futuregrowth’s move to acquire agricultural land in Africa
tracks an investment push led by China, India, Malaysia and
Indonesia that’s being driven by concerns about  food security 
and rising grain prices.  About 45 million hectares (111 million acres) of farmland
were leased in the two years through 2009, compared with an
average pre-2008 rate of 4 million hectares a year, the World
Bank said in a September 2010 report. More than 70 percent of
the deals were in Africa, most of them in Sudan,  Mozambique ,
 Liberia , Ethiopia, Nigeria and Madagascar.  The sales of large tracts of land to foreigners has sparked
protests in Madagascar and accusations from advocacy groups such
as the California-based Oakland Institute that African
communities are inadequately consulted and are being forcibly
evicted to make way for investors.  “We do fairly small and intensive farming,” said Vink,
whose fund re-insures its projects with the  World Bank ’s
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency. “It’s not large
tracts of land. Governments in most countries we engage with are
very open to investment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 