-- One-Term Presidents Don’t Make the Grade With Historians
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-07-29T15:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/one-term-presidents-don-t-make-the-grade-with-historians.html
U.S. political junkies are being
treated to a feast this summer: David Maraniss’ acclaimed new
book on  Barack Obama , the durable  Mitt Romney  biography by two
Boston Globe reporters and, of course, another installment of
 Robert Caro ’s classic series on  Lyndon Johnson .  After reading those, you also might want to pick up Robert Merry’s “Where They Stand: The American Presidents in the Eyes
of Voters and Historians,” an analysis of how presidents fare
with historians and why. It would make especially instructive
reading for Obama and Romney.  The inspiration for Merry, a former top Washington reporter
and editor and author of three other books dealing with U.S.
politics, was an  interview  with Obama in which he said he’d
“rather be a really good one-term president than a mediocre
two-term president.”  Merry discovers that’s pretty much a historical non-
sequitur. The only one-term president who rates high in
historians’ surveys is James Polk who acquired the Oregon
territories and California, and annexed Texas after a war with
Mexico. (Merry has written a biography of Polk, a thoroughly
pedestrian man who has been described as America’s “least-known
consequential president.”)  Great Crisis  Great presidencies usually are born through crises.  Abraham Lincoln  preserved the Union.  Franklin Roosevelt  led the nation
through the Great Depression and World War II.  George Washington 
defined the office. Every major survey considers those the three
greatest. (The Lincoln-era bookends James Buchanan and Andrew Johnson are invariably rated among the worst.)  Bill Clinton  complained that he didn’t face a big crisis to
prove his greatness. “I would have preferred being president
during World War II,” he once lamented, according to  Bob Woodward ’s book about his presidency.  Yet a few great presidents were able to forge their own
legacies.  Theodore Roosevelt  was the original trust-buster,
initiated federal regulation to protect average citizens and
launched the conservation movement; in foreign affairs, he
ensured the completion of the Panama Canal and negotiated an end
to the Russo-Japanese war, receiving the Nobel Peace Prize.  Woodrow Wilson , who Merry suggests is overrated, was
president during World War I; that was in his second term, which
is universally rated a failure. It was his first term, when he
helped establish the  Federal Reserve  and the Federal Trade
Commission, and enacted the federal income tax, that wins
plaudits. He was a supporter of women’s suffrage, though a
racial bigot.  It’s interesting how kind history is to a select few.  Harry Truman  didn’t run for re-election in 1952 because he was
embarrassingly unpopular. Yet within a decade, his extraordinary
first-term accomplishments -- the  Marshall Plan  and Truman
Doctrine, saving Western Europe from communism, forging
international organizations, such as the  United Nations , and the
realization that the decision to drop the atomic bomb on Japan
may have saved the lives of 1 million U.S. soldiers, marines and
sailors -- saw him steadily climb in surveys. He is now rated
among the top seven or eight greatest presidents.  Almost all his achievements were in that short first term.
Merry would argue that without the validation of re-election his
place in history wouldn’t be as lofty. (Merry serves on the
Board of Advisers of Bloomberg Government, which is owned by
Bloomberg LP.)  Another interesting case for revision is  Ulysses S. Grant .
The great Union Civil War commander generally was judged to be a
terrible president whose time in office was wracked by scandal
and by the destructive Reconstruction. That was a fairly
accepted view until recently when Eric Foner, a Columbia
University historian, argued that it was the suppression of
Southern blacks that followed Grant’s Reconstruction that is the
real post-Civil War shame. Grant still ranks in the lower half
of presidents, but no longer at the bottom.  President’s Role  Merry writes about the genius of the presidency that
emerged from the 1787 Constitutional Convention; it was an
office with virtually no precedent.  Alexander Hamilton  argued
for an all-powerful president who would serve for life; others
wanted the chief executive to be an appendage of the legislative
branch. The compromise was to fashion a powerful presidency
subject to checks and balances with delegated powers. This has
survived for more than 200 years and is a model for countless
other nations.  The lessons for the candidates this year are clear, the
author said in an interview; they have to campaign “with an eye
to governing” which is the only way to translate a victory into
a mandate. He also hopes that Romney, as well as Obama, will
appreciate the folly of the good one-term president theory;
single-termers are usually history’s losers.  Merry refers throughout the book to what he believes is one
of the best indicators of electoral outcome, the 13 keys
formulated by the political scientist Allan Lichtman and the
journalist Ken DeCell three decades ago. These include
conventional yardsticks such as economic growth and control of
Congress, as well as domestic and foreign-policy achievements
and the lack of any scandal or social unrest.  As of today, the Licthman-DeCell keys show Obama on the
positive side for nine of the 13, which points to an incumbent
victory.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 