-- Tony Hayward Loads Trucks With Kurdish Oil Awaiting Pipe: Energy
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-07-30T17:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/tony-hayward-loads-trucks-with-kurdish-oil-awaiting-pipe-energy.html
Tony Hayward , the former chief
executive officer at  BP Plc (BP/) , is now loading a fleet of as many
as 500 trucks a day while he waits for a new pipeline to carry
oil from his fields in northern  Iraq .  Since joining  Genel Energy Plc (GENL)  last year, Hayward has
pushed the semi-autonomous Kurds to finish building a link to
neighboring  Turkey  so he can find buyers outside the local
market. Kurdish contractor  Kar Group  said it has completed 23
percent of the first 48-mile (77-kilometer) section of the line
north to the border, though Turkey hasn’t said publicly it will
take the oil.  Kurdish authorities, feuding with the central government
over sharing oil revenue, plan in the next two years to complete
the 175-mile export link that will start at a Genel-operated
field and move as much as 1 million barrels a day, equal to a
third of Iraq’s output now. Following Hayward into the region
are  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , bolstering the Kurdish
plan to break  Baghdad ’s control of shipping crude from the
landlocked territory that’s ruled itself since the U.S.-led
invasion ousted  Saddam Hussein  in 2003.  “This will be a transformational development for companies
operating in the region,” Hayward, who ran Europe’s second-
biggest oil company until 2010, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “It will allow the direct export of crude oil
production to Turkey and international markets and accelerate
the monetization process for resources” in the Kurdish region.  Genel dropped 2 pence, or 0.3 percent, to close at 626.5
pence in London trading today. The stock has fallen 19 percent
this year.  Course for Independence  Iraq’s Kurds, who historically have resisted control by
Arab-dominated central governments, are charting a course to
independently develop oil reserves that the Kurdistan Regional
Government calculates at 45 billion barrels -- larger than BP’s
estimate for the U.S. or  Nigeria , Africa’s biggest producer.  The Kurdish region plans to increase output to 2 million
barrels a day by 2019,  Michael Howard , an adviser to Kurdistan
Natural Resources Minister  Ashti Hawrami , said in a June 10
phone interview. It has signed energy agreements with about 50
companies and plans to increase output to 1 million barrels a
day by 2015 from about 300,000 barrels a day now, he said.  Service Contracts  Kurdish authorities recognize production-sharing
agreements, which give investors a share of any oil they may
produce, whereas Iraq’s Oil Ministry offers only fee-based
service contracts. This has attracted interest from investors
such as Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  that are unhappy with the central
government’s contract terms for exploration and production.  Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron Corp. and  Total SA (FP)  are flouting
warnings by the government against seeking separate deals with
the Kurds, whom Iraq’s Oil Ministry accuses of “smuggling” oil
from the country.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. energy company, said July
19 it will buy a majority stake in two Kurdish blocks. The Oil
Ministry responded five days later by barring Chevron from doing
business in the rest of Iraq. Similarly, the ministry punished
Exxon for investing in the Kurdish region by excluding it from
an energy-licensing round in May.  Separate deals between the Kurds and foreign investors are
“illegal and illegitimate,” and Chevron “should feel ashamed
about what it did,” the ministry said July 24 in an e-mailed
statement. “These agreements grant the  oil companies  a large
share of crude production and are thus a squandering of the
national wealth.”  Shipping Crude  The Kurdish pipeline project resembles one that enables the
United Arab Emirates to circumvent politically inspired
shutdowns of oil exports. The U.A.E., also a member state of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, began shipping
crude on July 16 through a pipeline from  Abu Dhabi  to the Indian
Ocean port of Fujairah, bypassing the  Strait of Hormuz , the
transit corridor Iran threatened to shut earlier this year in
response to sanctions on its nuclear program.  DNO International ASA (DNO)  is among companies pumping crude at
Kurdish fields that have one main export route, the central
government’s pipeline from the city of Kirkuk in northern Iraq
to the Mediterranean port of Ceyhan, Turkey. A dispute over oil
contracts and revenue-sharing prompted Kurdish authorities to
halt flows into this network on April 1. Producers now must sell
their oil locally or send small loads by truck into Turkey.  Kar Group expects to complete the Kurdish pipeline’s first
section, linking the fields of Taq Taq and Khurmala, by the end
of the year, the company’s project manager Besoon Jalizada said
in a telephone interview on July 17. Kurdish authorities will
probably seek bids for construction of the remaining part of the
system, from Khurmala to the Turkish border, he said.  Pipeline Capacity  The first phase will have a capacity of about 200,000
barrels a day, a Genel official said on July 23, declining to be
identified because the pipeline is being built and financed by
Kurdish authorities and not Genel.  The pipeline plan “seems quite provocative,” Ivor Pether,
a  fund manager  at Royal London Asset Management which oversees
$60 billion of securities, said in a June 26 e-mail. “The risk
is obviously that it may take a long time to agree how to divide
the oil revenues, or even that the relationship between
Kurdistan and Baghdad breaks down.”  The Kurds are seeking closer cooperation with Turkey amid a
political impasse in Baghdad, where opposition groups accuse
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki of abusing power. Al-Maliki and
other Iraqi leaders have said they worry that the planned
pipeline may make the Kurds economically self-sufficient and
embolden them to seek independence.  Iraq has faced a series of violent attacks since the
pullout of U.S. troops in December, including the killing of 115
people in a wave of nationwide bombings claimed by an Al-Qaeda
affiliate group on July 25.  Turkey’s Role  Turkey, with its own restive Kurdish minority, is ready to
work with Iraq’s Kurds on the construction of oil and natural-
gas pipelines provided the central government in Baghdad agrees,
Turkish Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said in an interview in
Ankara on July 5.  At the same time, he said, the Turkish and Iraqi
governments have committed to repair a link to Kirkuk from Basra
in southern Iraq to help boost the amount of oil sent into
Turkey through the established Kirkuk-to-Ceyhan network.  “The question of how far the Turks are prepared to allow
the Kurdistan Regional Government to go in independent oil
exports is still open,” Robin Mills, an analyst at Dubai-based
Manaar Energy Consulting and Project Management, said today in
an e-mailed comment.  Genel’s Hayward said he’s not surprised that Exxon,
Chevron, Total or Eni SpA would be interested in Kurdistan.  “This only serves to reaffirm our long-held belief in the
enormous opportunities that exist,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  