-- Peet’s Seen Tempting Starbucks to Top Richest Java Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2012-07-30T20:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/peet-s-seen-tempting-starbucks-to-top-richest-java-bid-real-m-a.html
Peet’s Coffee & Tea Inc. has
investors wagering rival bidders will attempt to top a $1
billion takeover offer that’s already the most expensive U.S.
beverage deal.  Peet’s traded as much as 3 percent above the $73.50-a-share
bid from Joh. A. Benckiser last week, signaling some traders who
bet on acquisitions expect the Emeryville, California-based
company to be sold at a higher price. Including net cash, the
$941 million offer values the owner of specialty cafes and
grocery products at 21 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, the richest multiple for an
American maker of non-alcoholic drinks in deals larger than $500
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While surging coffee bean prices have hurt profit, Peet’s
boosted its supermarket  sales  by 30 percent last year.  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  may be interested in making a counterbid to gain a more
expensive grocery store brand and prevent Peet’s from expanding
its coffee shops, according to Wedbush Inc. Oscar Gruss & Son
Inc. says Starbucks, which was founded five years after Peet’s,
could pay as much as $80 a share to beat out the offer from JAB,
the investment company of the German billionaire Reimann family.  Peet’s “would give them an entree into the gourmet
market,”  Louis Meyer , a New York-based special situations
analyst at Oscar Gruss, said in a telephone interview. “That’s
why it is trading over -- because you have a natural, logical
buyer that financing any transaction would not be a problem. If
you’re going to get a counterbid, you’re going to get something
that has the appearance of a knockout counter bid.”  German Suitor  Paul Kranhold , a spokesman for Peet’s, wouldn’t comment on
whether the company has been in contact with another bidder or
received other offers.  Jim Olson , a spokesman for Starbucks,
said the Seattle-based company doesn’t comment on market rumors.  JAB, a closely held German holding company, announced on
July 23 an agreement to take Peet’s private for about $1 billion
plus the assumption of its cash. The firm is gaining control of
more than 190 specialty cafes in the U.S. and an expanding
business of selling ground coffee and teas to stores such as
 Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)  and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  JAB, which also disclosed this month a 12 percent stake in
Dutch tea and coffee maker  D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV (DE) , said it
expects the Peet’s deal to close in about three months, pending
shareholder and regulatory approvals.  Tom Johnson , a spokesman for JAB, said the company wouldn’t
comment on Pete’s shares trading above the offer price or
whether there may be a rival bidder.  Starbucks Connection  Shares of Peet’s ended at $75.17 on July 27, the highest
closing level since the bid was announced. At 2.3 percent more
than the takeover price, it’s the second-biggest gap of any
pending U.S. deal of at least $500 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The stock rose as high as $75.74 last week in
intraday trading.  “Given where the stock price is trading, there is a clear
indication that many shareholders are thinking that a rival bid
will come in,” Nick Setyan, a Los Angeles-based analyst at
Wedbush, said in a phone interview.  Today, the shares rose 33 cents to $75.50, the highest
closing price since April.  The most likely candidate for a counteroffer is Starbucks,
the world’s largest coffee-shop chain, said  Keith Moore , an
event-driven strategist at MKM Partners LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Peet’s is named for Alfred Peet, who founded the company in
Berkeley,  California , in  1966 . Peet mentored Starbucks’ co-
founder Gerald Baldwin, who later bought Peet’s and sold the
Starbucks chain. Baldwin was Peet’s chief executive officer for
about 23 years and still serves as a  board member  after more
than four decades.  ‘Premium Offering’  Starbucks, which has a market value of $36 billion, may now
be interested in owning Peet’s coffee as a higher-priced option
to sell to supermarkets, said Wedbush’s Setyan.  Peet’s “is perceived actually as a more premium offering
than Starbucks on the grocery shelf, and they have consistently
been able to charge $1 more per 12-ounce bag on the grocery
shelf,” said Setyan. “That is something that Starbucks
covets.”  Sales (PEET)  from Peet’s grocery-store business increased more
than 92 percent in three years to $98.9 million in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company began
selling Godiva brand flavored coffees in supermarkets and drug
stores in 2009. Peet’s total  revenue  from coffee shops, grocery
stores and office and home delivery is projected to increase 9
percent this year and 10 percent next, analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg show.  While Peet’s had cited rising coffee costs in the first
quarter and last year, the company said in May that prices for
the commodity were coming down this year.  European Expansion  Starbucks could use its existing distribution channels to
roll out Peet’s products in food stores and its coffee shops
internationally, Setyan said. While Starbucks operates in more
than 50 countries, less than  23 percent  of sales were generated
outside the U.S. last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s just intriguing given that Starbucks is having
trouble penetrating  Europe  with the Starbucks brand,” said
Meyer of Oscar Gruss. “Even though people would know it was
from Starbucks, having a totally separate brand from a business
approach may be the trick for them.”  Starbucks  shares  fell 9.4 percent July 27, the most since
August, after the company forecast fourth-quarter profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates as consumers worldwide reduce their
spending.  JM Smucker Co. (SJM) , the $8.4 billion maker of Folgers coffee,
and  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , which sells Maxwell House and Yuban brand
coffee products and has a market value of $70 billion, may also
potentially be interested in buying Peet’s, said MKM’s Moore.  Highest Multiple  Maribeth Badertscher, a spokeswoman for Orrville, Ohio-
based Smucker, and  Michael Mitchell , a spokesman for Northfield,
Illinois-based Kraft, said the companies don’t comment on
speculation about acquisitions.  While JAB is paying the U.S. industry’s highest multiple
relative to it trailing 12-month Ebitda, the 31 percent premium
to Peet’s 20-day share price trails the group average of 33
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The offer of $73.50 a
share is also less than Peet’s all-time  high  closing price of
$77.14 in March.  Any potential counter bidder may be deterred by the already
steep multiple and the difficulty of expanding Peet’s brand
significantly outside of  California , said Conrad Lyon, an
analyst at B. Riley & Co. in  Los Angeles .  ‘Very Aggressive’  “The valuation seems very aggressive,” he said in a phone
interview. “I don’t know if one would necessarily want to pay
up for potential growth.”  While Moore says a rival bid from Starbucks is “not highly
likely,” he recommended on July 24 that clients take a position
in Peet’s in case it or another suitor does enter the fray.
Starbucks had $2.23 billion in  cash  and short-term investments
as of April 1 and only $549.6 million in debt, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “If anyone were to come in, I think it would be
Starbucks,” said Wedbush’s Setyan. “They are probably the one
company I could think of to make sense and the most likely to
have the arsenal -- the money and the firepower -- to acquire
Peet’s at these multiples.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in  New York  at 
 abarinka1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 