-- Penis Politics Obscure Circumcision’s Role Fighting AIDS
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-29T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/penis-politics-obscure-circumcision-s-role-fighting-aids.html
Circumcision is in the spotlight
again after a German court ruling has pitted those who support it
for religious and health reasons against those who say boys
should have the right to decide for themselves. Lost in the
debate is a growing body of recent data that shows circumcision
is helping prevent the spread of AIDS in  Africa .  “The evidence is overwhelming, at least in low- and
middle-income countries that have important HIV epidemics,”
said David Cooper, director of the  Kirby Institute  in Sydney,
 Australia ’s biggest HIV research center. “It’s really important
that, given there is a benefit, parents have a choice.”  Since a Cologne district court in May opposed religious
circumcision after a Muslim boy fell ill after having his
foreskin removed, Muslim and Jewish leaders have denounced the
ruling as an encroachment on freedom of religion. The
controversy has been especially fraught occurring in a country
whose history is shadowed by the deaths of an estimated 6
million Jews during the Holocaust in World War II. To diffuse
the tension, German legislators on July 19 passed a resolution
calling on the government to draft a law explicitly permitting
the practice.  While the debate rages on, evidence is mounting that
supports what some doctors already consider prudent medical
reasons for having the procedure: It eliminates a hiding place
for bacteria and viruses. A circumcision program in Orange Farm,
 South Africa , may have averted 536 infections last year among
52,000 men there, according to estimates presented at the
 International AIDS Conference  last week. An earlier analysis
showed the program had reduced the rate of new HIV infections by
76 percent.  Health Measure  Approximately 30 percent of boys and men are estimated to
be circumcised globally, of whom an estimated two-thirds are
Muslim, according to the Geneva-based  World Health Organization .  Circumcision is picking up in Africa as a pragmatic health
measure to ward off disease. More than 40 Zimbabwean lawmakers
volunteered in June to be circumcised as part of a campaign to
boost AIDS awareness. About 500,000 men have been circumcised in
Africa since 2008 in programs funded by the U.S. President’s
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, according to Bertran Auvert, a
public-health professor at the University of Versailles outside
of Paris.  Herpes Reduction  In addition to curbing HIV infection, the practice also
reduces the chance of getting genital herpes and human
papillomavirus, according to a study published in the New
England Journal of Medicine. The results prompted Thomas Quinn,
chief of the International HIV/STD section at the  National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease , to urge U.S. policy
makers to make circumcision available to all boys if their
parents choose to have it done.  The same study also showed that women may benefit from a
man’s circumcision. The circumcised men in the study were 35
percent less likely to get HPV, which causes genital warts and
cervical cancer in women. About three-quarters of U.S. adults
have had at least one HPV infection, according to the 2009
study.  Circumcision also may reduce the risk of prostate cancer,
according to  research  published in the journal Cancer in March.
There is also “substantial evidence” that the procedure
protects against urinary tract infections, syphilis and invasive
penile cancer, the WHO said in a report.  Lower Risk  Men shouldn’t be denied circumcision if requested, as long
as there is no medical reason to avoid it, the WHO has said.
Removing the foreskin early in a child’s life carries a lower
risk of complications as well as lower costs compared with
performing the procedure on adults, according to the United
Nations health agency’s  manual  on infant circumcision.  The WHO estimates that circumcision of newborns has a 0.2
percent to 0.4 percent rate of adverse events, noting
differences between religious circumcisions in clinical
settings, which it says are generally risk-free, and procedures
undertaken in unhygienic conditions, which can result in serious
complications and even death.  Two newborn boys died in  New York  between 2000 and 2011
after being infected with herpes simplex virus as a result of
out-of-hospital ritual circumcisions, according to a June 8
 report  by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in
Atlanta.  “One important advantage of infant male circumcision is
that the procedure is simpler than that performed on older boys
and men because the penis is less developed and the foreskin is
thinner and less vascular,” the WHO said in the manual.
“Healing is quicker and complication rates are lower.”  U.S. Controversy  Circumcision of newborn boys is common in  Israel , the U.S.,
 Canada , Australia and  New Zealand , and in much of the  Middle
East , Central Asia and West Africa, the WHO said.  Even in the U.S., where more than 50 percent of newborn
boys were circumcised between 2000 and 2010, there is
controversy. Efforts to ban circumcision in  San Francisco  and
 Santa Monica ,  California , were blocked in July 2011 by a state
judge who ruled that cities have no power to regulate a state-
licensed medical procedure. In October, Governor  Jerry Brown 
signed a law prohibiting local governments from enacting such
measures.  The  American Academy  of Pediatrics leaves the decision of
circumcision up to the parents, neither endorsing nor opposing
the practice, though it does say in its position statement that
the procedure may reduce the risk of bladder infections and HIV.  The Kirby Institute’s Cooper authored a paper in the
Medical Journal of Australia in 2010 calling on the Royal
Australasian College of Physicians to reverse its policy of
recommending against the routine circumcision of newborn boys.  Doctors’ Recommendations  The  Finnish Medical Association  opposes circumcision of
infants for non-medical reasons, arguing that it risks the
health of the infant as well as his physical integrity. In the
Netherlands, the  Royal Dutch Medical Association  opposes
religious circumcision because it may lead to medical and
psychological complications. If it helps prevent HIV, the
association says, parents should delay circumcision until the
male is sexually active and can decide for himself.  “Our departure point is that you are cutting healthy flesh
from a minor who has not consented to it,” Lode Wigersma,
director of policy at the Dutch doctors’ group, said in a phone
interview. “When you remove that tissue, you can cause
complications. We are aware that there are studies supporting
prevention of certain diseases but there are many medical
experts that find those studies inconclusive.”  Sexual Pleasure  Some mild adverse effects may occur, especially when
circumcision is done when the patient is older or when the
practitioner hasn’t been properly trained, according to a  review 
of more than 50 studies published in 2010. Severe complications
are rare, the review found.  While there is widespread concern that male circumcision
can diminish male and even female sexual enjoyment, recent
 studies  show no signs of that, according to WHO. Two trials that
evaluated at least 4,000 adult males each found that
circumcision didn’t adversely affect  sexual pleasure , WHO said
in a manual for male circumcision.  In  Germany , home to about 4 million Muslims and 110,000
Jews, the legal controversy began in November 2010, when a
Muslim couple living in Cologne asked a doctor to circumcise
their 4-year-old son. The doctor circumcised the boy using a
local anesthetic and closed the wound with four stitches. Two
days after the procedure, the mother rushed her son to the
hospital after the wound began bleeding. The hospital contacted
the police, who started an investigation that led to bodily harm
charges against the doctor.  Bodily Harm  While the Cologne court acquitted the doctor in its
decision because the law wasn’t clear at the time, it ruled male
circumcision, even when done properly by a doctor with the
permission of the parents, should be considered as bodily harm
if carried out on a boy unable to give his consent.  The child’s body would be “permanently and irreparably
changed,” the court said in its decision. The procedure goes
“against the interests of a child to decide for himself later
on to which religion he wishes to belong.”  Following the ruling, the German Medical Association asked
its members not to perform circumcisions for religious reasons
until the law was clarified. The group also  warned  that the
decision may spur parents to turn to non-professionals to
perform circumcisions, increasing the risk of infection through
poor hygiene.  Swiss Hospitals  The controversy has spread to Switzerland and  Austria . Two
Swiss hospitals this month suspended the practice of performing
circumcisions after the German court’s decision, and the
governor of Austria’s Voralberg province told state-run
hospitals to stop the practice until laws are clarified.  Many Turks living in in Germany with newborn male babies
are flying back to their home country for circumcision, which is
performed on boys ages 2 to 14 and is often accompanied by
festivities, said Serdar Yazar, a member of the interest group
Turkish Community in Germany.  European rabbis told Jews on July 12 they should keep
circumcising their boys and ignore the court ruling.
Circumcision “is a basic law of the Jewish faith,” Pinchas
Goldschmidt, who heads the Conference of European Rabbis, told
reporters in Berlin after a three-day meeting.  Esra Weill, who has been circumcising Jewish baby boys for
the past three years, said many Jewish families with newborn
boys are apprehensive, holding off until they get a
clarification from the German government.  “Why target this indelible part of our culture?” said
Weill, a Basel, Switzerland-based mohel, or ritual Jewish
circumciser, who is registered to practice in both Switzerland
and Germany. “It’s not necessarily bad that we are having a
dialogue about this, but ultimately I don’t think it could be
stopped.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  