-- Red Sox Top Yankees 8-6 on Pedro Ciriaco’s 9th-Inning RBI Triple
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-07-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/red-sox-defeat-yankees-8-6-on-ciriaco-s-9th-inning-rbi-triple.html
Pedro Ciriaco tripled to drive in
the deciding run in the ninth inning of the Boston  Red Sox ’s 8-6
win over the New York Yankees, who fell into a tie for best
record in Major League Baseball.  Ciriaco went on to score an insurance run on Dustin Pedroia’s sacrifice fly off  Rafael Soriano  (2-1) who took the
loss last night after a two-hour rain delay at Yankee Stadium.  Ciriaco said he kept running even though he expected Yankee
centerfielder  Curtis Granderson  to catch his fly ball.
Granderson missed the catch and the ball landed for a triple.  “I thought I had a chance, so I run like a hurricane,”
Ciriaco told reporters.  The Red Sox and Yankees play the final game of the series
today after splitting the first two.  Will Middlebrooks doubled in two runs after a run-scoring
double by  Adrian Gonzalez  in the first, to give the Red Sox a 3-
0 advantage. Gonzalez added a three-run homer in the fifth as
the Red Sox took a 6-1 lead off Yankee starter C.C. Sabathia,
who was relieved after six innings.  “We were good tonight, and we were lucky,” Red Sox
manager  Bobby Valentine  said of Gonzalez. “He hit that ball, a
knuckleball, 380 feet. It’s tough to catch. He’s pretty hot
right now, so I’d say he was good and we were lucky.”  Chris Stewart hit a solo home run in the third inning for
the Yankees, who got two-run homers from Jayson Nix in the fifth
and  Mark Teixeira  in the eighth to tie the score at 6-6.  Andrew Miller  (3-1) pitched a perfect one-third inning for
the win, while Alfredo Aceves struck out one batter in the ninth
to get his 22nd save.  The Yankees at 60-40 are tied with the National League’s
Washington Nationals for the best record in the majors. The Red
Sox are in last place in the five-team American League East, 10
½ games behind the Yankees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  