-- Republican Senator Says Obama ’Outsourced’ Syria Policy
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-07-29T14:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/republican-senator-says-obama-outsourced-syria-policy.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration has turned over leadership on the escalating
conflict in Syria to other countries and hasn’t strengthened the
U.S. relationship with Israel, Senator  Kelly Ayotte  said today.  The Obama administration has “outsourced leadership to the
United Nations” on Syria, Ayotte, a New Hampshire Republican
who serves on the Armed Services Committee, said today on CNN’s
“State of the Union” program.  Ayotte also criticized the administration’s record on
Israel, which says it’s threatened by the possible development
of weapons from Iran’s nuclear program. Iran says the program is
for peaceful purposes.  Ayotte spoke as Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  was visiting Israel as part of a six-day foreign trip.
Romney has said he won’t rule out a military strike on Iran to
prevent that nation from developing nuclear capabilities.  Dan Senor , a foreign policy adviser traveling with Romney in Israel,
said today that Romney would respect an Israeli decision to
attack Iran to stop the nuclear program.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said July 27 that
the administration is working beyond the UN and with other
international partners “to further isolate and pressure”
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  Senate Majority Whip  Dick Durbin , speaking before Ayotte on
the same CNN program, defended the administration’s Israel
policy and said it “will stand” with the Middle East nation.  ‘Strongest Coalition’  The Obama administration has formed “the strongest
coalition of countries around the world to put pressure on Iran
not to develop a nuclear weapon,” said Durbin, an Illinois
Democrat.  Ayotte, mentioned as a potential vice-presidential running
mate for Romney, declined to say if she’s being vetted for the
job or is interested in it.  “It’s certainly an honor to be mentioned,” Ayotte said,
adding that she enjoys serving New Hampshire in the Senate and
Romney “will pick who he thinks is best, and he’s in charge of
that process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey in Washington at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  