-- Romania Set for Further Political Turmoil After Vote
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-07-30T19:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/romanian-presidential-impeachment-vote-invalid-exit-poll-shows.html
Romania’s President Traian Basescu
survived a second attempt to oust him in five years as a voter
boycott invalidated an impeachment referendum, setting the stage
for further battles with Prime Minister Victor Ponta.  Turnout at yesterday’s referendum called by Ponta’s ruling
coalition was 46.2 percent with 99.97 percent of the votes
counted, below the minimum threshold of half the electorate,
according to the central electoral bureau today. About 87.5
percent of those who participated voted to oust Basescu. Final
figures will probably be released on Aug. 1, the bureau said.  Ponta’s government, the Balkan nation’s third this year,
took power in May riding a Europe-wide backlash against
austerity measures. The referendum, which must be endorsed by
the  Constitutional Court , will probably intensify wrangling that
pushed the leu to a record low against the euro, boosted
borrowing costs and delayed a review of a bailout loan,
according to Commerzbank AG’s Thu Lan Nguyen.  “It will probably become clear very quickly that the
political leadership of the country will remain divided so that
further conflicts would be unavoidable,” Nguyen, a currency
strategist, in  Frankfurt , said before the vote. The leu may get
“a very short-term” boost from the result, she said.  Weaker Leu  The leu, the world’s second worst-performing currency
against the euro in the past month after the Sudanese pound,
rebounded from a record low last week. It rose as much as 1
percent today to 4.5540 per euro and was trading at 4.5580 at
2:40 p.m. in Bucharest.  Ponta has said repeatedly any collaboration with a
reinstated Basescu would be impossible and questioned his
authority after the “massive vote” against him. “We have
nothing more to discuss with a man rejected by the citizens,”
Ponta told reporters today.  He also said in an interview for due to be broadcast on
private television station Realitatea TV later today that
Basescu must retire from his position as a dialogue between the
two leaders is “out of the question.”  “A majority of the votes were in favor of removing the
president, who has become very unpopular because of him backing
the austerity measures” and Ponta “the new prime minister and
tough political opponent of President Basescu has been the
driving force behind the impeachment proceedings,”  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI)  analysts wrote in a note to clients today.
“We assume, however, that the political wrangling will
continue, which could weigh on the currency.”  ‘Coup’ Averted  The government’s efforts to ease impeachment rules and
diminish the Constitutional Court’s powers have drawn criticism
from European Union leaders including German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel , who voiced concern that democracy is backsliding in the
former communist country.  “Romanians rejected a coup d’etat,” Basescu told
reporters yesterday. “The flame of democracy is still
burning.”  The plebiscite was called by Ponta’s ruling coalition,
which wanted to remove Basescu for overstepping his duties in
announcing austerity measures. Basescu, who said “jailable
politicians” were trying to orchestrate his ouster, urged
citizens to boycott the vote to ensure turnout was below 50
percent of the country’s 18.3 million eligible voters.  Basescu will return to office immediately after he was
suspended for a month to allow the vote to take place.
Parliamentary elections are expected to take place in the fourth
quarter.  “Should President Basescu stay on, the cohabitation with
Premier Ponta would no doubt be very difficult, not least due to
personal animosity between the two,” Pasquale Diana, an
economist at Morgan Stanley in  London , said in a July 27 report.
“And beyond the near term, Basescu could also help to
facilitate a surprise outcome at the next election.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  