-- Romney Opens Fundraiser in Israel to Media After Outcry
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-07-29T15:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/romney-opens-fundraiser-in-israel-to-media-after-outcry.html
Republican presidential hopeful  Mitt Romney  will allow reporters into a private meeting in Jerusalem
with top campaign donors accompanying him on a six-day foreign
tour, reversing course after barring media from the event.  Many of the fundraisers, a group of Romney supporters that
includes casino executive  Sheldon Adelson , traveled from the
U.S. to join the campaign for tomorrow’s event at the King David
Hotel. The price to attend: A donation of $50,000 or already
raising $100,000 for the campaign, according to an invitation
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The Romney campaign had negotiated an agreement with the
media to permit a small group of reporters into all fundraising
receptions at public venues, including a July 26 event in
London. Yesterday, the campaign announced plans to bar the press
at the Israel event.  After pressure from journalists accompanying Romney on the
trip, the campaign now plans to open his remarks to coverage by
a handful of reporters. Roughly 50 U.S. citizens are expected to
attend a breakfast reception.  Fred Zeidman, a Houston-based donor attending the Jerusalem
fundraiser, said the crowd is expected to be largely pro-Israel
Americans who traveled from the U.S. for the event.  President  Barack Obama  allows media coverage of his
fundraisers at public venues. At events in private homes, a pool
of reporters can listen to his opening remarks before they are
ushered out.  Private Comments  Reporters have overheard Romney making political remarks to
donors in private that he doesn’t repeat in public. During an
April event at a waterfront mansion in Florida, he told
fundraisers he would consider drastically reducing the Education
Department and eliminate the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, according to NBC News.  Earlier this month, he didn’t mention former President
 George W. Bush  by name in a speech at a fundraiser hosted by ex-
Vice President  Dick Cheney  at a golf course near  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming . Yet reporters later overheard him mentioning Bush at a
private dinner at Cheney’s home.  The Jerusalem fundraiser is the second held by Romney
during an international tour designed to highlight his foreign-
policy credentials. Almost 250 donors joined him at the London
event, which raised at least $2 million, according to campaign
aide  Spencer Zwick . A small group of reporters was allowed to
listen as Romney spoke. Hosts included donors with ties to banks
involved in the Libor rate-fixing scandal, a fact scrutinized in
the press.  Donors also joined Romney on a surprise visit to the
Western Wall today, one of Judaism’s holiest sites. As Romney
made his way down to the wall, donors were escorted around the
site by Zwick and Romney’s brother, Scott.  New York  lawyer Phil Rosen, one of Romney’s biggest
benefactors, was permitted past the machine-gun-carrying Israeli
soldiers protecting a security perimeter to embrace the
presidential candidate. The two took a snapshot to remember the
moment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Jerusalem  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  