-- Romney Donors on Agenda Along with Policy on Israel Trip
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-07-30T08:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/romney-donors-on-agenda-along-with-policy-on-israel-trip.html
There’s a big star on  Mitt Romney ’s
trip to Israel -- and it isn’t the candidate.  As  Sheldon Adelson  made his way to his specially reserved
seat at Romney’s speech yesterday in Jerusalem, he was swarmed
by the audience of donors, supporters, and Israelis.  “I came to get a schwarma sandwich, what do you mean?”
the biggest known donor in support of Republicans this election
cycle told a reporter from Politico, when asked why he was in
Israel.  That wasn’t quite accurate: Adelson, like dozens of Romney
donors, had been invited by the campaign to join the Republican
presidential candidate on his 30-hour trip to Israel, the most
diplomatically sensitive leg of his six-day international tour.
The price of admission: at least a $50,000 donation or raising
$100,000 from others.  For the Romney campaign, indulging the several dozen
contributors was as much a part of the itinerary as boosting the
candidate’s foreign-policy credentials.  Donors piled into vans for a tour of the city, visiting
sites like the Mount of Olives. They quizzed an aide to Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  on foreign policy in a briefing. And
they bonded over box lunches and dinner on the terrace of the
luxurious King David hotel.  Even when Romney visited the Western Wall, one of the
holiest sites in Judaism, the donors were right by his side.  Escorting Donors  As he made his way down to the wall, donors were escorted
around the site by finance director  Spencer Zwick  and Romney’s
brother, Scott.  New York  lawyer Phil Rosen, a campaign fundraising bundler,
was permitted past the machine-gun-carrying Israeli soldiers
protecting a security perimeter, to embrace Romney. Like typical
tourists in a foreign land, the two took a quick snapshot to
remember the moment.  Romney’s campaign has worked hard to win donors abroad. In
May, the candidate has held video conferences with fundraisers
in  Singapore  and  Hong Kong . And on July 26, Romney attended a
fundraiser in  London  hosted by bankers from financial services
firms tied to the Libor rate-fixing scandal, an event
scrutinized in the media. That fundraiser, held in the crystal
chandelier-adorned ballroom of the Mandarin Oriental hotel,
raised roughly $2 million.  Israel Fundraiser  Romney held a fundraiser at the King David hotel before
flying to  Poland  today, the third country on his tour. The
campaign initially barred reporters from covering his comments,
a change from how Romney handles fundraisers in the U.S., where
reporters are allowed in public places such as hotels. After a
press outcry, aides announced yesterday that they would open the
event to a small group of journalists.  Among the 50 donors gathered around a U-shaped conference
table for the event were meatpacking magnate  John Miller , a
close friend of Romney’s, oil investor L.E. Simmons, New York
finance Chairman  Woody Johnson , the owner of the  New York Jets ,
hedge fund manager  Paul Singer , and Detroit businessman John Rakolta. When Adelson, 78, the founder, chairman and chief
executive officer of  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , appeared on the
hotel patio to get his photo taken in front of a scenic view of
the old city, guards quickly drew the drapes to block him from
view.  After going through a security screening, the donors filled
their plates from a lavish Israeli buffet of pastries, cheeses,
salads, and juices. When Romney arrived, he took a seat at the
head of the table, next to the other, unofficial guests of
honor: Adelson and his wife, Miriam.  He praised the entrepreneurial drive and spirituality of
 Israel , extolling the drive of Israelis to develop and protect
their land.  “This is a people that have long recognized a purpose in
this place in their lives greater then themselves and their own
particular interests,” he said.  The event is expected to raise more than $1 million
dollars, according to Zwick.  No Questions  At Romney’s foreign policy speech, donors arrived on mini-
buses and were quickly whisked by campaign staff to front-row
seats. They heeded a campaign aide’s instruction to stay seated
during Romney’s arrival, so as not to block the television
cameras. When Romney finished, they greeted him on a rope line.  After the speech, Adelson slowly made his way through the
swarm of donors and reporters to his wheelchair.  “It was a great speech,” Adelson said. “Loved it.”  No more questions, he told the reporters as he stopped to
chat and take pictures with fellow Romney supporters. The casino
executive has given more than $30 million to benefit Republicans
this cycle, most recently giving $10 million with his wife to an
outside super-PAC supporting Romney.  “He should charge for photos,” suggested Harvey Schwartz,
a retired tax lawyer from  Jerusalem , who had pushed his way
through the crowd to meet Adelson. “He could make a few
dollars.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  