-- Romney Seeks Contrast With Obama on Iran in Israel Speech
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-07-30T08:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/romney-says-he-d-back-unilateral-israeli-strike-on-iran.html
Mitt Romney  plunged into an
international stalemate during a 30-hour trip to  Jerusalem ,
saying halting a nuclear  Iran  is the “highest national-security
priority” as he sought to draw a sharp distinction with
President  Barack Obama .  As the sun set against the ancient stone walls of the old
city, the Republican presidential candidate delivered a foreign-
policy broadside, declaring Jerusalem the capital of  Israel  and
proclaiming that it’s “right” for America to stand with the
Jewish state and employ “any and all measures” to stop Iran
from developing atomic capabilities.  “It is sometimes said that those who are the most
committed to stopping the Iranian regime from securing nuclear
weapons are reckless and provocative and inviting war,” he said
in his speech. “The opposite is true.”  The address was the centerpiece of a six-day, three-country
international tour designed to boost Romney’s diplomatic
credentials and portray the former Massachusetts governor and
private-equity executive as a credible commander-in-chief to
voters back home.  Bookending Romney’s trip to Israel, Obama has sent
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and security advisers John Brennan and Thomas Donilon on separate visits to the country
over the last two weeks. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  is
traveling to Israel this week.  Defense Cooperation  Panetta told reporters on his plane yesterday to Tunis that
the U.S. has achieved an “unprecedented” level of defense
cooperation with Israel.  As for Iran, Panetta said that
economic sanctions would be ratcheted up in the coming weeks and
have a far greater economic impact on the Islamic Republic.  “It’s sending a very strong message to them that they
can’t continue doing what they’re doing,” he said.  During his stop in Israel, Romney made a surprise visit to
the Western Wall, one of Judaism’s most sacred sites, met with
top Israeli and Palestinian leaders, and shared a private meal
with his family at the home of Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu .  While Romney received diplomatic briefings, campaign staff
cared for top fundraisers, including Las Vegas casino executive
 Sheldon Adelson , one of the biggest donors supporting
Republicans. Several dozen contributors joined Romney on the
trip, where they were ushered to front-row seats at his speech
and taken on tours of the city. Before flying to  Poland  today,
the last leg of his tour, he held a breakfast reception and
question-and-answer session at the King David hotel with several
dozen Americans.  Foreign-Policy Novice  As donors filled their plates from a lavish Israeli buffet,
Romney took his seat at the head of the long conference table,
next to the other, unofficial guests of honor: Adelson and his
wife, Miriam.  He praised the entrepreneurial drive and spirituality of
Israel and extolled the drive of Israelis to develop and protect
their country.  “This is a people that have long recognized a purpose in
this place in their lives greater then themselves,” he said.  The Israel visit thrust Romney, a relative foreign-policy
novice, into one of the world’s most challenging conflicts. He
arrived at a time of heightened tensions, with leaders
reassessing their regional strategy in the wake of escalating
violence in  Syria  and the July 18 suicide attack on Israeli
tourists in  Bulgaria .  New Policies  Romney repeated his consideration of Jerusalem as Israel’s
capital in an interview in the city with  CNN , while saying he
would “want to work out with the government” of Israel the
timing of moving the embassy to Jerusalem from  Tel Aviv .  With the Israelis and Palestinians both claiming Jerusalem
as their capital, the U.S. has treated the issue as one to be
worked out in negotiations over an Arab-Israeli peace that paves
the way for a Palestinian state.  Romney had vowed to refrain from releasing new policies or
attacking Obama while abroad, in line with the custom of not
speaking ill of a sitting president from overseas.  Yet, his muscular language about Israel’s right of self-
defense marked an effort to heighten the contrast between him
and Obama.  While the Obama administration hasn’t ruled out a military
strike, the two allies have disagreed openly about how much time
to give economic sanctions and negotiations to persuade Iran to
scrap much of its atomic work.  “Words matter, and I think priorities matter,” Romney
spokesman  Kevin Madden  said on ABC’s “This Week.” “The reason
he’s there now is to make sure that he sends a strong statement
as a potential future president to the people of Israel.”  Israeli Option  At a briefing, foreign policy adviser  Dan Senor  told
reporters that “if Israel has to take action on its own, in
order to stop Iran from developing the capability, the governor
would respect that decision.”  Romney tried to temper that language in a television
interview several hours later, saying he wasn’t distancing
himself from current U.S. policy.  “What we have said and with which I concur is that we
should use every diplomatic and political vehicle that’s
available to us to keep Iran from becoming a nuclear capability
state,” he said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  Iran Talks  The failure of talks between Iran and six world powers to
curb what the West sees as the Islamic Republic’s push to
develop atomic weapons has fueled concerns that Israel would opt
for a solo strike. Iran says its nuclear program is peaceful,
for generating electricity and medical purposes.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  says his country has
more to fear from a nuclear Iran than from the consequences of a
pre-emptive strike against its atomic facilities. The Israeli
government will need to make a decision, he said on July 25,
though the Obama administration wants to see if Iran backs down
as international sanctions increasingly hurt its economy, saying
there is time for military action as a last alternative.  The dispute over timing has further soured the already
rocky relationship between the Obama administration and
Netanyahu.  Holiday Meeting  Campaign aides have emphasized Romney’s relationship with
the Israeli leader, dating back to when they worked together at
 Boston Consulting Group  in the 1970s, as a way of building
support among American Jews.  The two shared a meal with their families last night to
mark the end of Tisha B’Av, a day of mourning and fasting that
commemorates the destruction of the First and Second Jewish
temples of Jerusalem.  In a joint media appearance, Netanyahu highlighted their
long friendship by referring to Romney as “Mitt.”  “I want to thank you for those very strong words of
support and friendship for Israel and for Jerusalem that we
heard today in your speech,” Netanyahu said.  Romney visited one of the holiest sites of the Jewish
people, stopping by the Western Wall to leave a prayer in its
stones. As Romney made his way down to the wall, donors were
escorted around the site by finance director  Spencer Zwick  and
Romney’s brother, Scott.  New York  lawyer Phil Rosen, a campaign fundraising bundler,
was permitted past Israeli soldiers protecting a security
perimeter to embrace Romney. The two took a quick snapshot to
remember the moment.  Flanked by two rabbis and wearing a black yarmulke, Romney
walked to the wall amid applause and shouts from a gathered
crowd.  “This is the campaign for American Jews,” Channah Nebi
said in Hebrew, as she peered over the divide separating men and
women to watch Romney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Jerusalem at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  