-- Romney’s Russia Rhetoric May Backfire in Visit to Poland
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-29T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/romney-s-russia-rhetoric-may-backfire-in-visit-to-poland.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  arrives in Poland today seeking to burnish his
foreign policy standing and score points against President
 Barack Obama  for his “abandonment” of eastern  Europe .  While Polish relations with Obama have been bumpy, Romney’s
attempts to play off  Cold War  fears in a former Soviet satellite
and to connect with Americans of eastern European descent may
not resonate in today’s Poland, analysts and scholars said.  Romney has called Russia, Poland’s historic foe, America’s
“No. 1 geopolitical foe” and accused Obama of the “sudden
abandonment” of Poles because the president delayed -- and then
revived -- plans for a missile defense system in eastern Europe.  “Romney’s description of Russia as the world’s No. 1
geostrategic problem, that’s out of step with most Americans,
but Poles, as well, are coming to see the world and Russia in a
more nuanced way,” said  Charles Kupchan , a senior fellow at the
 Council on Foreign Relations , a Washington policy group.  Cold warrior rhetoric might even grate on Polish ears, said
Fran Burwell, director of the Program on Transatlantic Relations
at the  Atlantic Council , another Washington policy group.  “When Romney says this” about Russia, “the Poles, I
think, are more concerned about him making the debate with
Russia more prominent and more tense than it needs to be,”
Burwell said in a telephone interview last week.  Obama Comparison  As Romney ends a six-day trip that also includes the U.K.
and  Israel  and invites comparisons with Obama’s 2008 speech in
Berlin that drew 200,000 spectators, the administration has been
underscoring the relationships it already has with officials in
those countries.  The Pentagon hosted Polish Defense Minister Tomasz
Siemoniak on July 25, the same day Deputy National Security
Adviser  John Brennan  was in Israel ahead of a visit this week by
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta . British Defense Minister Philip
Hammond visited the U.S. Defense Department last week.  U.S. relations with Poland warmed quickly after communism
collapsed in 1989. With the Czech Republic and Hungary, Poland
joined NATO in 1999, and Polish troops have fought in the 1991
Persian  Gulf War , in  Afghanistan , and in the 2003 invasion of
Iraq.  Obama administration leaks about secret “black sites” the
George W. Bush administration reportedly created in Poland and
elsewhere in 2002 and 2003 to interrogate suspected terrorists
have created tensions, though. On March 29, Polish Prime
Minister Donald Tusk said Poland was a “political victim” of
leaks about the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency’s covert
rendition program.  Pacific Pivot  Romney is trying to capitalize on those strains and other
White House military decisions and verbal gaffes, as well as on
concerns that the U.S. defense ‘tilt’’ toward  Asia  will reduce
eastern Europe’s importance to Washington decision makers.  The talk of a shift toward Asia “prompted many Central
Europeans to revisit the fundamental assumptions which have
defined their relationship with the  United States ,” according
to a July 23 report by the  Center for European Policy Analysis ,
a Washington policy group.  Still, a June Pew Research Center survey of global
attitudes toward the U.S. found Polish opinion of the U.S.
remained steady from 2009, when 67 percent approved of the U.S.,
to 2012, when 69 percent approved. In 2008, the last year of
President George W. Bush’s administration, 68 percent of Poles
approved of the U.S.  Obama’s Leadership  The same survey also found that 50 percent of Poles have
confidence in Obama’s leadership, whereas 41 percent said the
same about Bush in 2008. The survey sampled 1,001 adults in
Poland, and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.7
percentage points.  Some Poles’ views of Obama did sour when the president
delayed an eastern European missile defense system. The decision
came as part of the so-called “reset” of U.S. relations with
Russia, which strongly objects to the system. Ostensibly meant
to protect against Iranian weapons, it also could have targeted
Russian missiles.  Poles, who see missile defense as a bulwark against a
possible return of Russian aggression, had invested great effort
in agreeing to the plan proposed by Bush. The White House
announcement that it wouldn’t move forward with the plan came on
Sept. 17, 2009, 70 years to the day after the  Soviet Union 
invaded eastern Poland two weeks after  Nazi Germany  attacked
from the west.  Favoring Russia?  The Polish perception was that Obama “clearly favored
pushing the restart button with Russia over the longer-term
commitment that eastern Europe had made to the U.S.,” said  Nida
Gelazis , a senior associate at the Wilson Center, a non-partisan
Washington research institute.  Former Polish President  Lech Walesa  told Poland’s news
station TVN24 that he was deeply disappointed. “The Americans
have always only taken care of their own interests, and they
have used everyone else,” Walesa said, according to  Der
Spiegel . He said Poles must rethink their own view of America
and start thinking about their own interests.  A month later, Vice President  Joe Biden  said the U.S. would
proceed with a smaller project in a new format, called the
Phased Adaptive Approach, on the same basic schedule.  There’s still lingering concern about the missile system,
though, because of uncertainty about U.S. defense budget cuts,
Burwell said.  “There’s a lot of skepticism in Poland,” Burwell said,
“because of the budget, they’re feeling a little bit like,
‘we’ll believe that it’s here when it’s here.’ ”  Verbal Missteps  Verbal missteps also have chilled relations between the
Obama White House and Poland. At a ceremony to issue
Presidential Medals of Freedom in May, Obama referred to
“Polish death camps” in telling the story of a Polish
resistance fighter working against Nazis during World War II.  The White House expressed regret, explaining that the
president misspoke and was referring to “Nazi death camps
operated in Poland.” Prime Minister Tusk, not appeased, blasted
Obama for “ignorance, lack of knowledge, bad intentions.”  The Obama administration has moved to reassure Poland in
other ways, announcing the creation of a permanent U.S. military
presence on Polish soil in May 2011. The U.S. air detachment,
expected to be operational in 2013, will service F-16 fighters
and C-130 transports that rotate through Poland, according to
the White House.  Go-To Partner  Kupchan said the White House also went out of its way to
rebuild ties to Europe, with Obama spending a week there in
November 2010, emphasizing that the U.S. considers Europe its
go-to partner in the world.  “That calmed a lot of nerves in Poland, but that doesn’t
mean the Poles aren’t worried about a lot of things,” Kupchan
said in a telephone interview.  Romney, though, could benefit from eastern Europeans’
cultural and historical proclivity for Republicans, Gelazis
said. “There’s a long tradition in Poland and Baltic states to
support the  Republican Party  because of  Ronald Reagan ,” the
U.S. president credited with helping trigger the Soviet Union’s
demise.  “Eastern Europeans love that very strong hand, that very
strong rhetoric they get from Republican candidates,” Gelazis
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  