-- Scalia Rebuffs Criticism of Dissent in Immigration Case
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-07-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/scalia-rejects-criticism-of-dissent-in-arizona-case.html
U.S. Supreme Court Justice  Antonin Scalia  rejected criticism that he improperly went outside the
court record in his dissent to last term’s decision on Arizona’s
immigration law, saying his consideration of presidential
remarks was appropriate.  President  Barack Obama ’s statements that his administration
wouldn’t enforce parts of immigration law, made after the high
court heard the case, brought into question the government’s
arguments, Scalia said in an interview today on “Fox News
Sunday.” He dismissed criticism by U.S. Circuit Judge Richard Posner, who said Scalia’s dissent read like a campaign speech.  “He’s a court of appeals judge, isn’t he?” Scalia, 76,
said of Posner. “He doesn’t sit in judgment of my opinions as
far as I’m concerned.”  The  Supreme Court  scaled back Arizona’s first-of-its-kind
crackdown on illegal immigrants in a 5-3 decision June 25,
striking down three provisions while asserting the federal
government has exclusive power to set immigration policy.  Solicitor General Donald Verrilli had argued that only the
U.S. can decide how to allocate resources to immigration
enforcement, Scalia said. Obama later said the administration
would no longer enforce the law regarding deportations of
children of illegal immigrants “because it was the right thing
to do,” demonstrating that priorities weren’t the issue and
leaving Arizona free to enforce the federal statutes on its own,
Scalia said in his dissent.  President’s Remarks  “I didn’t say he had no authority to do it,” Scalia said
today of the president’s remarks. “I said he may well be right
in doing it. But it demonstrates the point that  Arizona  is being
prevented in enforcing immigration law even when the executive,
rightly or wrongly, simply chooses not to enforce it.”  The court’s split decisions on hotly contested political
cases, such the Affordable Health Care Act last month, reflects
the division of judicial philosophy rather than partisanship,
Scalia said.  Since Justices John Paul Stevens and David Souter left the
court, rulings have often been split, with five Republican-
appointed judges on one side and four Democratic nominees on the
other, Scalia said.  “That doesn’t show they are voting politics,” Scalia
said. “It shows that they had been selected because of their
judicial philosophy.”  Scalia waved off what critics have called a belligerent
stance toward opponents in court, opinions and public comments.  “It’s fun to push buttons,” Scalia said. “When  Richard
Posner  comes out with a statement like that, I should come out
with a statement equally provocative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  