-- SEC Freezes Trader Assets in Probe of Cnooc’s Nexen Bid
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-07-30T09:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/sec-freezes-trader-assets-in-probe-of-cnooc-s-nexen-purchase.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission obtained a court order to freeze assets of traders
who allegedly reaped more than $13 million by trading illegally
ahead of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s announcement that it would buy  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   Hong Kong-based Well Advantage Limited, controlled by Zhang Zhirong, and other unidentified traders stockpiled shares of
Nexen based on confidential information about the deal, the SEC
said in a July 27 statement announcing a complaint filed at
federal court in  Manhattan . The court order froze about $38
million in assets, the SEC said.  Nexen’s stock rose more than  50 percent  on July 23 after
Cnooc,  China ’s largest offshore oil and gas explorer, said it
would pay $15.1 billion in cash to acquire the Calgary-based
company. Well Advantage’s owner Zhang, a billionaire, is the
controlling shareholder of  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , a Hong Kong-based company that engages in
significant business activities with Cnooc, the SEC said.  “This may be the tip of an iceberg suggesting that the
government in China has to be more careful about their business
and business partners,” said Joseph Fan, co-director of the
Institute of Economics and Finance at the  Chinese University  of
Hong Kong.  Many individuals doing business with state-owned
enterprises are well connected and there are complicated
relationships and transactions between them, Fan said.  Rongsheng Ties  Zhang, 43, is the chairman and founder of China Rongsheng
Heavy Industries, a Chinese shipbuilder, and developer  Glorious
Property Holdings Ltd. (845)  Zhang wasn’t available for comment,
Glorious Property’s public relations manager Doris Chung said.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries said in a statement today
that Zhang doesn’t have any executive role, and business
operations won’t be affected. The shipbuilder won an order from
state-owned Cnooc to build a deepwater pipe-laying vessel in
2007 and Cnooc was one of the cornerstone investors in its
initial public offering in Hong Kong in November 2010.  Shares of Rongsheng Heavy fell 16.4 percent today to close
at HK$1.17, its lowest level since its listing, after saying
earlier today its first-half profit will drop significantly on a
decline in orders and prices. The stock has slumped 85 percent
since its  Hong Kong  stock sale.  Crisis Valuations  “Given news that the SEC has ordered a freeze on accounts
allegedly related to Rongsheng Chairman Zhang Zhi Rong, we
believe our recent upgrade to ‘hold’ for Rongsheng, based on
Rongsheng hitting crisis level valuations half that of peers,
now appears to have been too early,” Religare  Capital Markets ’
analyst Vincent Fernando wrote in a note to client today. He
downgraded the stock to a sell.  Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission and Cnooc
declined to comment on the case.  Unknown traders used accounts at Singapore-based Phillip
Securities Pte and Citibank N.A. in  Singapore  to trade illegally
in the shares of Nexen, according to the SEC’s complaint.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore didn’t immediately
respond to e-mailed questions seeking comment. Freddie Lacorte,
a Singapore-based spokesman at Phillip Securities Pte. and  James
Griffiths , a Hong Kong-based spokesman at Citigroup Inc. also
declined to comment.  China’s Richest  Zhang was listed as China’s 38th richest person with a
fortune of $2.9 billion in the 2010 Hurun Report, which tracks
the country’s wealthy.  Glorious Property also said today its normal business
operations won’t be affected. Its shares plunged by 10.6
percent, the most since its listing in Oct, 2009, to close at
HK$1.18 in Hong Kong.  “Well Advantage and these other traders engaged in an all-
too-familiar pattern of misusing inside information to place
extremely timely trades and profit handsomely from their illegal
acts,” Sanjay Wadhwa, deputy head of the SEC’s market abuse
enforcement unit, said in a statement.  Well Advantage lists as an address a company that provides
secretariat services. A woman at the secretariat company who
declined to be identified said she wasn’t able to comment.  Nexen’s Options  Almost all of the purchases of Nexen stock occurred during
the seven trading days before the acquisition was announced, and
the accounts used for the transactions had little or no history
of buying Nexen shares.  Data compiled by Bloomberg showed trading in bullish Nexen
options reached the highest level since 2008 before Cnooc
announced it would buy the energy company. A total of 47,302
calls traded on the company’s U.S. shares last week, with
bullish contracts reaching 24,554 on July 20, the most since
March 2008.  Call options that convey the right to acquire shares for a
given price by a certain date usually offer higher returns than
stock to traders speculating on takeover. Nexen said last year
it was exploring a sale and the departure of its chief executive
officer in January spurred speculation it might find a buyer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  