-- Singapore to Meet Water Target Before Deadline: Southeast Asia
-- B y   E e   C h i e n   C h u a
-- 2012-07-30T03:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/singapore-to-meet-water-target-before-deadline-southeast-asia.html
Singapore  will be able to meet its
water requirements independently ahead of the 2061 expiration of
a century-long supply agreement with  Malaysia  “if need be,”
the head of the city-state’s water utility said.  Desalination and recycling plants produce 40 percent of the
380 million British gallons (456 million U.S. gallons) of water
companies in Singapore and its 5.2 million population use daily,
Chew Men Leong, chief executive of PUB, said in an interview on
July 27. A downtown dam adds a further 10 percent, with the
remaining coming from its reservoirs and imports from Malaysia.  “We have made progress to the point that we are now much
more confident in terms of water security and sustainability,”
said Chew, 44, a former naval chief who joined the utility about
a year ago. “If you’re asking me this question about when will
we ever get self-sufficiency, I will put it this way that we can
be self-sufficient if need be.”  Singapore, which relied on Malaysia for its water needs,
spent S$600 million ($481 million) to S$800 million a year since
2006 on new technologies to boost its supply. The push to
develop the industry has drawn businesses including General
Electric Co. and  Siemens AG (SIE)  to invest, and created local water
companies such as  Hyflux Ltd. (HYF)  that have expanded overseas.  “What they are looking to do is create a virtual market
for the water business which is much larger than Singapore,”
said Glen Daigger, chief technology officer of CH2M Hill Cos.,
an Englewood, Colorado-based industry consulting firm. “By
becoming a thought leader for water in  Asia , then they really
create a market which is orders of magnitude bigger than
Singapore itself.”  Rising Demand  The island that’s almost half the size of the city of  Los
Angeles  is developing its water industry to meet the country’s
requirement, which Chew expects will exceed 700 million gallons
a day in 50 years. That’s equivalent to more than 1,000 Olympic-
sized swimming pools, based on data from the  U.S. Environment
Protection Agency .  Singapore has relied on Malaysia for its water supply, with
the first of four contracts signed in 1927, according to data
compiled by the city’s  National Library . An agreement in 1961
expired last year while the remaining 1962 accord, which ends in
49 years, gives Singapore 250 million gallons of raw water daily.  Arguments over the water contracts had overshadowed
relations between the two countries, which were briefly united
in a federation from 1963 to 1965.  The water strategy “goes back to  Lee Kuan Yew  with respect
to making sure that Singapore, which initially was reliant upon
imported water from Malaysia, that it not be put in a position
where it was not able to depend on that source as a reliable
supply,” said  Paul Brown , executive vice president of CDM Smith
Inc., referring to city-state’s first prime minister.  Downtown Dam  CDM Smith, a Cambridge, Massachusetts infrastructure
consulting company, designed the  Marina Barrage , the dam in the
island-state’s business district that was completed in 2010 and
holds water from the Singapore River and the Marina Bay.  Water from rainfall and drawn through a 7,000-kilometer
(4,350-mile) drainage network into more than a dozen reservoirs
across Singapore will be supplemented by desalination, which
treats seawater, and recycling systems, Chew said.  “Water is a priority area for Singapore, and this has set
the tone and direction for water management in the country,”
Olivia Lum, chief executive officer of Hyflux, the city’s
biggest water company, said in an e-mailed response to queries.  Hyflux, whose  sales  quadrupled to S$534.1 million in the
past year from 2006, developed the city’s first desalination
plant and is building similar projects in  China  and  Algeria .  Sustainable Costs  Desalination plants produce 10 percent of water in
Singapore, Chew said, which will increase to 30 percent in 50
years. The use of recycled water, known as  NEWater , is mainly
for industrial purposes such as cooling machines and factory
processes, and will make up 50 percent of supply by 2061.  “We have essentially moved from a position of
vulnerability to better security,” Chew said, adding that the
goal is to make the supply “sustainable in terms of costs.”  Singapore has achieved more than half of its target of
adding 11,000 jobs to the water industry by 2015 as the number
of companies in the city doubled to 100 since 2006, PUB said.
The city-state also hosted the  Water Week  conference and two
related expositions earlier this month, drawing a record 19,200
participants. The events will be held every two years.  “Over the next five to six years, we are committed to
increasing our technology and engineering presence leveraging
the greater opportunities we have here in Singapore,” said
Michael Roeder, regional commercial leader of engineered systems
at  General Electric (GE) ’s water unit in the city-state.  Flushers, Faucets  Chew said his main worry is  climate change  and how that
lowers water levels at reservoirs. Changing weather patterns
also led to heavy rainfalls and flash floods that added stress
to its drainage systems, where parts of the Orchard Road
shopping belt were affected over the past two years.  PUB is also working on reducing water consumption, he said,
with measures ranging from mandatory dual-flushing systems for
toilets and automatic faucets in all public restrooms.  The average usage per person is now 153.4 liters (40 U.S.
gallons) a day, down from 165 liters nine years ago, he said.
That’s expected to fall to 147 liters by the end of the decade
and 140 liters in the following 10 years, he said.  “Here, water is an issue of life and death,” Chew said.
“That’s always been the message.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ee Chien Chua in Singapore at 
 echua27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  