-- Apple, Samsung Patent Fights See U.K. Suits Triple
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2012-07-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/smartphone-patent-fights-see-u-k-ip-lawsuits-nearly-triple.html
U.K. courts are a battleground for
the global technology patent wars as intellectual property
claims nearly tripled last year, according to a report by law
firm EMW Law LLP.  There were 183 new patent and registered design claims
filed in the U.K. in 2011, the highest number in more than five
years, as firms seek to maintain their advantage over
competitors in a difficult economic climate, EMW said. There
were 65 similar claims filed in 2010.  “Some technology businesses have amassed a huge war chest
of patents, which they can use to swamp the competition with
patent infringement claims,” said Mark Finn, IP law principal
at EMW. “Even if the claim doesn’t stick and is eventually
rejected by the courts, it can still keep rivals’ products off
the market for long enough to gain a competitive advantage.”  Smartphone makers including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) ,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)  have filed dozens of suits against
each other in the U.K. over the last two years as part of a
global litigation strategy in the mobile-device market that
Bloomberg Industries said was $312 billion last year. The rise
in IP litigation comes as the U.K. economy shrank the most in
three years, forcing companies to fight “for every edge they
can find,” Finn said.  Companies in patent-heavy industries look for “any way”
to maintain their advantage, Finn said.  Finn said companies rush to sue before the disputed product
establishes itself in the country, because U.K. patent courts
may take a year to reach a judgment.  “IP litigation often isn’t just about compensation for
claimants,” Finn said. “It’s a vital tool for defending
profits and market share.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  