-- Syria Faces Economic Endgame Amid Chaos as Sanctions Bite
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-07-29T21:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/syria-faces-economic-endgame-amid-chaos-as-sanctions-bite.html
The city pulsed to a beat it hadn’t
felt for decades as it welcomed its new president. Intellectuals
met at private political salons for open, lively discussions of
topics they had only dared to mention in whispers before:
demands for greater democracy, the suspension of emergency law,
an end to the ruling party’s domination.  The young president and his elegant wife, Asma -- a Briton
of Syrian origin -- delighted their people by popping into a
grocery store or eating dinner at a trendy restaurant, their
youth a source of hope for those who wanted to believe that
change was possible in what had once been a dour Soviet client
state, Bloomberg Markets reports in its September issue.  That was Damascus 12 years ago, in the early months of
Bashar al-Assad’s presidency -- a period that became known as
the Damascus Spring and that included promises of economic
liberalization.  By September 2001, Assad had clamped down, throwing pro-
democracy activists into jail.  It was a bloodless preview of the steps the Assad regime
would take to crush any hint of a threat to its existence. At
the time, when the world was preoccupied with the terrorist
attacks in the U.S., the moves drew little international notice.  “Had the Damascus Spring been allowed to flourish, a soft
landing could’ve been reached both for the nation and the regime
10 years down the road,” says Sami Moubayyed, a Syrian
historian.  ‘An Autumn’  Instead, says Haitham al-Maleh, an 81-year-old lawyer and
activist, “It was an autumn, not a spring.”  Assad has staged a relentless crackdown on opponents of his
regime since March 2011. More than 19,000 people have died,
according to the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights . They say
the number includes almost 5,000 government troops.  Most of the civilians died from shelling, torture and
massacres allegedly committed by government troops and pro-
regime militiamen, Maleh says.  Human Rights Watch  says  Syria ’s
intelligence agencies are running an “archipelago of torture
centers” across the country.  At the same time, the economy is slowly being suffocated.
The  European Union  began imposing sanctions in May 2011 on top
of U.S. restrictions that date to 2004.  Tighten Vice  “Syria’s currency and foreign reserves have collapsed,”
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in July, urging a
further tightening of the financial vice. “Sanctions on oil
alone have deprived Assad of billions of dollars in lost
revenues, and his ability to finance his war grows more
difficult by the day.”  The revolt began as a peaceful movement inspired by the
demonstrations that toppled longtime leaders in the Arab world.
Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali fled to  Saudi Arabia 
in January 2011. Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  was forced out
a month later and has been sentenced to life in jail, while
 Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi was killed in October and Yemen’s Ali Abdullah Saleh was replaced through a negotiated settlement in
February.  The Assad regime remains, though its fate appears more
precarious with the spread of the uprising to Damascus and
Aleppo, Syria’s largest cities, in mid-July and after a blast
killed four security chiefs.  Opponents say Assad has survived this long because of the
regime’s brutality. Assad says it’s because he still enjoys
public support, according to an interview he gave German
broadcaster ARD in July. He ruled out stepping down.  ‘A Challenge’  “The president shouldn’t run away from a challenge,” he
told ARD.  Regional and international efforts to end the crisis have
failed. United Nations envoy  Kofi Annan  brokered a cease-fire
deal in April that failed to take hold; the UN mission
overseeing it was suspended in June amid increasing violence.  Divisions between the majority  Sunni Muslims  and Assad’s
Alawite leadership have spilled across the country’s borders,
with clashes between different religious groups in Lebanon
during the past few months. The makeup of religious groups in
Syria is similar to that in Iraq and Lebanon, says  Edward
Djerejian , a former U.S. ambassador to Syria who’s the founding
director of the  James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy 
at  Rice University  in Houston. He says the violence could spread
through the region.  Authoritarian Rule  The authoritarian Assad of today contrasts starkly with the
34-year-old ophthalmologist who took power in July 2000 after
the death of his father, Hafez al-Assad. Many were willing to
give the political novice a chance partly because the image he
projected -- so different from his father’s remote and austere
approach -- suggested he could move Syria into the 21st century.  “Bashar’s charm, his choice of a wife, his youth, his
inexperience” made people give him the benefit of the doubt,
says  Joshua Landis , director of the Middle East Studies program
at the University of Oklahoma in Norman, who once lived in
Syria.  “He was shy, a little bit bumbling. He didn’t have
bodyguards. He played the simple guy who goes amongst the
people, and people were so relieved.”  In his inaugural speech on July 17, 2000, Assad pledged to
follow his father’s path and refuse to bargain with  Israel  over
the return of the  Golan Heights  while also promising to
revitalize the economy and be open to constructive criticism. In
the early days of his rule, Syria appeared younger and livelier,
with the spread of mobile phones, satellite television, Internet
cafes and even shopping malls.  Speaking Out  More imports were allowed, making a distant memory of the
days when salt, toilet paper and sugar were sold from under the
counter and people stood in long lines for bread. No longer did
restaurants have to rely on an intermittent supply of goods
smuggled from Lebanon; usually every item on the menu was
available.  Intellectuals began speaking out, gathering in private
salons to discuss politics and the economy, and openly calling
for greater civil liberties and democratic political reform. In
less than a year, the government had cracked down on the salons
and snuffed out the movement, throwing 10 of its leaders in jail
on charges ranging from attempting to change the constitution to
inciting sectarian conflicts, Maleh says.  Landis says Assad was trapped by the system his father had
created, one that relied on personal loyalty rather than
competence and was antithetical to openness.  ‘OK, Criticize’  “He says: ‘OK, criticize. I want to modernize Syria,’”
Landis says. “And within two weeks, all of the political salons
are calling for an end to dictatorship.”  Assad continued to make economic changes. In 2005, Syria
announced a shift from a socialist economy based on the Soviet
model toward more-market-oriented policies. Private banks and
insurance companies opened, and firms from countries such as
 France , the  Persian Gulf states , Iran and  Turkey  began to
invest. “Positive things happened in response to the
liberalization policies,” says Nabil Sukkar, a former World
Bank economist and managing director of the  Syrian Consulting
Bureau for Development and Investment  in Damascus.  Sukkar says the private sector grew to about 67 percent of
gross domestic product by early 2011 from about 40 percent two
decades earlier, creating new job opportunities.  “The private sector became the largest employer, absorbing
70 percent of total employment,” he says.  Fried Chicken  A few foreign fast-food chains moved in, introducing
Damascenes to caffe lattes, American fried chicken and sticky
cinnamon rolls. Modern Japanese and Korean cars replaced aging
models. And amid the soot-covered, dun-colored, Soviet-style
apartment blocks that dominate Damascus, new building began.  One showcase project, still under construction, is Eighth
Gate -- the name refers to the seven gates that circled the city
in ancient times -- featuring rows of sleek apartment buildings
just off the highway linking Syria and Lebanon. A joint venture
between Dubai’s  Emaar  Properties PJSC, the biggest real estate
developer in the United Arab Emirates, and Dubai-based Invest
Group Overseas, the project will include  office space , a five-
star hotel, residences, space for 255 retail outlets, cinemas
and the new headquarters of the Damascus Securities Exchange. It
was scheduled to be completed in 2014.  Since the unrest began in March 2011, trade, bank lending
and tourism have been drying up.  Slowing Growth  “This crisis is going to retard our growth and development
as well as our efforts to catch up with the rest of the
countries in the region,” Sukkar says.  Businesses are seeking alternative markets in allied
nations such as Iran and Iraq.  As of July 29, the Syrian pound had lost more than a third
of its value against the dollar since March 2011, slashing the
purchasing power of Syrians on fixed incomes. Syria’s inflation
rate was about 33 percent in May, the most recent data available
from the  Central Bureau of Statistics . Deposits fell by an
average of 35 percent in 2011 at Bank Audi Syria SA, Bank of
Syria and Overseas SA and Banque Bemo Saudi Fransi SA, according
to April filings with the securities exchange. Lending plunged
22 percent.  The EU’s decision to stop importing Syrian  crude oil  had
cost the country $3 billion in export revenue, Sufian Alao, who
was oil minister at the time, told the official Syrian Arab News
Agency on April 30. Syria exported 150,000 barrels of the
380,000 barrels a day it produced before the sanctions were
imposed last September. Its other main exports are textiles,
kitchenware and canned food.  ‘Killing Us’  “The sanctions have strangled us; they’re killing us,”
says Sonia Khandji Cachecho, a businesswoman who’s also a board
member of the Damascus Chamber of Commerce.  As of July, 65 percent of small industrial enterprises and
half of service companies in Damascus and its suburbs had
closed, says Cachecho, a perfectly coifed blonde who runs a
maker of hair-care and health-care products. Cachecho, the
Syrian agent for Wella hair products, says her supplier stopped
doing business with her in October because of the EU sanctions.  “What kind of genius sanctions are these that affect the
poor and those with fixed income?” she says. “They’re
punishing the people, not the regime, and creating unemployment
and poverty.”  Business is down 80 percent at  Anat , a handicrafts store on
 Straight Street , which was mentioned in the New Testament of the
Bible. The shop once provided part-time employment for 1,000
women across the country and helped preserve Syria’s traditional
textile work. Arab and Western tourists, who made up the bulk of
Anat’s clientele, are avoiding travel to the country, and
Syrians are skimping on nonessential items.  The shop and warehouse, constructed from two converted old
Damascene houses with a marble fountain between them, are packed
with embroidered shawls, stitched tableaux of traditional homes
and silver jewelry studded with turquoise to ward off the evil
eye.  ‘Considerable Hardship’  The store’s owner, German Heike Weber, 61, who moved to
Damascus 30 years ago with her Syrian husband, says any orders
have to be shipped via third countries to the U.S. and  Europe .
And since the clashes have blocked roads to the villages where
her wares are made, future supply is uncertain.  “The economy can manage, but with considerable hardship
for both the people and the government finances,” Sukkar says.  Until fighting moved to the capital in mid-July, the
streets of Damascus had a veneer of normalcy: Workers painted a
renovated building on a side road. Kids slammed a ball against
the glass wall of an electronics shop, making its owner wince.
At a patisserie, a couple flirted as they waited for an
assistant to put their cakes in a box.  Stock Market  At the  Damascus Securities Exchange , up a steep flight of
marble steps, government officials attended a refresher course
on how markets work. Lecturer Osama Hassan stood in front of a
whiteboard covered with terms: stocks, bonds, Treasury bills.
Across the hall, brokers traded stocks, whose prices have fallen
by more than 50 percent since the unrest began.  Harsh reality was inescapable, even then. Down a winding
road near the exchange, Syrians stood in a long line at a gas
station, empty cylinders in hand, to get a ration of cooking
fuel--a casualty of sanctions.  As fighting draws closer to Assad’s seat of power in
Damascus, his reign is drawing to an end, says Patrick Ventrell,
a  U.S. State Department  spokesman. “We don’t have a crystal
ball to know if it’s going to be today or tomorrow or next week
or when,” Ventrell says. “But it’s clear that the opposition
is going to be unyielding in its demands for democracy and that
the people of Syria want to see a new regime.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 