-- U.K. Home Prices Fall for First Time This Year, Hometrack Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-07-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/u-k-home-prices-fall-for-first-time-this-year-hometrack-says.html
U.K.  house prices  fell in July for
the first time this year and may extend their decline as a
deepening recession curbs demand for homes, Hometrack Ltd. said.  Values slipped 0.1 percent from June, when they stagnated,
the London-based property-research company said in a report
today. A measure of demand fell the most in six months. In
 London , the pace of home-price inflation slowed to 0.1 percent.  Data this week showed Britain’s economy shrank 0.7 percent
in the  second quarter , the most in more than three years, while
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said there are
“deep-rooted economic problems.” At the same time, the euro-
area debt crisis is mounting, with speculation increasing that
 Spain  may need a full sovereign bailout.  “Weaker demand is to be expected over the summer months,
but compared to previous years, the seasonal slowdown has
started earlier and developed more rapidly,” said  Richard Donnell , director of research at Hometrack. “This reflects
growing concern over the U.K.’s economy and the deepening euro-
zone crisis.”  Compared with June, prices fell in eight out of 10 regions
tracked by Hometrack and were unchanged in one, according to the
report. London was the only region to register an increase. From
a year earlier, values nationally fell 0.5 percent.  The number of new buyer registrations, a measure of demand,
dropped 2.1 percent in July from the previous month, while the
volume of properties being put up for sale rose 1.4 percent.
Donnell said the gap between supply and demand “is set to widen
over the summer months and points to further modest price
falls.”  London Weakens  In London, new buyer numbers fell 2.4 percent in July, with
the greatest decline, 3.4 percent, recorded in Southeast
England.  “The housing markets of London and the Southeast -- areas
that have supported headline price growth since the beginning of
the year -- are starting to slow as demand weakens and supply
rises,” Hometrack said.  A separate survey today by Lloyds Bank showed U.K.
companies became  less pessimistic  about the economic outlook in
July. The index of sentiment rose to minus 8 from minus 12 in
June, the unit of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said. Still, hiring
intentions fell to the weakest level this year and confidence
“remains relatively weak by historical standards,” it said.  The bank questioned 305 companies with sales exceeding 1
million pounds ($1.57 million) between July 2 and July 12.  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said today that U.K.
insolvencies in the retail industry rose 10 percent in the
second quarter compared with a year earlier. Overall
insolvencies fell 11 percent to 3,927, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  