-- U.S. Shooter Rhode Eyes Medal at Sixth Straight Olympics in 2016
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-07-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/u-s-shooter-rhode-aims-to-boost-olympic-tally-after-fifth-medal.html
Kim Rhode is already looking to
extend her record of winning a shooting medal at every Olympics
since 1996 by continuing the streak at the 2016 games.  The 33-year-old won gold in the women’s skeet yesterday to
become the first U.S. woman to collect a medal at an individual
sport at five consecutive  Olympic Games . She’s only the fifth
person from any nation to do so.  “There’s definitely a few more Olympics in me, I’m
certainly looking forward to Rio in 2016,” Rhode told reporters
at the Olympic Park in London. “Shooting is a sport you can
have a very long career at.”  Rhode, shooting a Perazzi MX2000S shotgun, won the contest
at the Royal Artillery Barracks at Woolwich in the southeast of
the U.K. capital after setting an Olympic record in qualifying
with 74 hits out of a possible 75. She scored a perfect 25 in
the final to tie her own world record and beat second-placed Wei
Ning, 29, of  China  with a total score of 99 to Wei’s 91.  “It was very tough shooting conditions,” Rhode said after
contending with rain, wind and changing light. “It made me
focus that much harder and pay attention that much more.”  Rhode’s first Olympic medal was a gold in the double trap
at Atlanta in 1996, when she was 17 years old. She followed with
a bronze in Sydney in 2000 and gold in  Athens  in 2004 for the
same discipline before taking silver for skeet in Beijing in
2008 after double trap was dropped from the Olympic program.  Shotgun Stolen  Since the last Olympic Games she’s fought  breast cancer  and
had the shotgun she had used to win all her previous medals
stolen. She won today using a gun anonymously donated to her
even though the stolen gun was recovered by the police.  Coached by her father, a former competitive wrestler, Rhode
started shooting at age 10 and discharges 500 to 1,000 rounds a
day. She has shot more than 3 million targets, she said.  “All that practice paid off. It’s just like walking, when
you walk down the street you don’t think left, right, left,
right,” she said. “For me today it was very easy.”  Rhode shoots again in the women’s trap on Aug. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  