-- U.S. Men’s Basketball Team Routs France 98-71 in Olympic Opener
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-07-30T02:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/u-s-men-s-basketball-routs-france-in-first-2012-olympics-match.html
The U.S. opened the defense of its
Olympic men’s basketball title with a 98-71 rout of France in
London, where the Americans broke open a game they led by just
one point after the first quarter.  Kevin Durant  of the National Basketball Association’s
Oklahoma City Thunder scored a team-high 22 points for the U.S.,
which outscored France 30-15 in the second quarter and extended
its lead to 29 points in the second half.  All 12 players on the U.S. roster scored in yesterday’s
game, with  Kevin Love  of the Minnesota Timberwolves adding 14
points and  Kobe Bryant  of the  Los Angeles Lakers  scoring 10. The
U.S. held a 56-40 advantage in rebounds and limited the French
to 2-of-22 shooting from three-point range.  “When we play the right way, we’re a tough team to beat,”
 Tyson Chandler , 29, of the  New York Knicks  told reporters.  The Americans, who have lost only three of the 16 previous
Olympic tournaments they entered, next play  Tunisia  tomorrow.
The U.S. won won all five of its Olympic warm-up games,
including a 100-78 victory against Spain on July 24. Spain,
which placed second four years ago in Beijing, Argentina and
Brazil are among the top medal contenders, assistant U.S. coach
Nate McMillan said before yesterday’s game.  France last won an Olympic medal in men’s basketball at the
2000 Sydney Games, where it took silver.  ‘Having Fun’  “We still have a lot of work to do, but that’s the beauty
of it all,” Durant said. “We’re all coming together in such a
short time. We’re having fun playing. Guys don’t worry about
points, rebounds, assists; we just want to play to win.”  LeBron James of the Miami Heat had nine points and eight
assists against France, while Carmelo Anthony of the Knicks and
 James Harden  of the Thunder had nine points apiece. Chandler
finished with eight points, including the first basket of the
game, while  Deron Williams  of the Brooklyn Nets was second on
the team with six assists.  The U.S. used an 11-0 scoring run during the second quarter
to open a 33-21 lead and was ahead 52-36 at halftime. The
Americans later scored 12 straight points during one stretch in
the second half to build a 80-51 advantage.  “You know they’re going to be aggressive defensively,
that’s what they do, so if you hand the ball over that’s when
they use that opportunity to get a fast break,” France’s Boris Diaw said in an interview.  Diaw had nine points and six rebounds, while Ali Traore led
the French with 12 points and  Tony Parker  of the NBA’s San
Antonio Spurs added 10.  Preparations for the Olympics have gone well for players
who took part in last month’s NBA Finals, McMillan said. The
Heat beat the Thunder four games to one to win the NBA title.  “They’re coming off the toughest NBA season in the history
of the game,” McMillan said. “It shows these guys are
committed to not only representing their country, but trying to
win the gold medal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  