-- Most U.S. Stocks Slip After Two-Day Rally; Corn at Record
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-07-30T20:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/u-s-equity-futures-euro-drop-on-concern-of-economic-slowdown.html
Most U.S. stocks fell following the
biggest two-day rally of the year, while European  equities  rose
for a third day and Spanish bonds rallied on speculation policy
makers will take action to ease the region’s debt crisis. Corn
jumped to a record as an American drought persisted.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  slipped 0.05 percent to
1,385.3 at 4 p.m. in New York after jumping 3.6 percent over the
previous two sessions. Three stocks retreated for every two that
rose on U.S. exchanges. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index surged 1.6
percent to extend a rally since July 25 to more than 5 percent.
Ten-year Treasury notes halted a three-day retreat, sending
rates down five basis points to 1.50 percent. The euro
depreciated 0.5 percent to $1.2258, snapping a three-day gain.
Corn, wheat and soybeans rallied at least 1.8 percent.  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi  met with U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in Frankfurt today after
leaders in Berlin, Paris and Rome backed him by saying they will
do what’s needed to protect the 17-nation euro. Spain’s economy
shrank 0.4 percent in the second quarter, the National
Statistics Institute in Madrid said today. The  Federal Reserve 
will start a two-day meeting tomorrow.  “People looked at their portfolios over the weekend and,
after a move like we saw, that usually brings more sellers and
people rearranging their positions,” Rick Fier, director of
equity trading at Conifer Securities LLC in New York, said in a
telephone interview. His firm oversees $12 billion in assets.
“It’s an extremely frustrating market. People that were
shorting lost it all in two days, people that were more long
came back but nobody is killing it.”  Market Leaders  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  fell 2 percent to lead losses in the
Dow Jones Industrial Average as Deutsche Bank AG cut its
recommendation on the stock and said earnings expectations may
be too high.  Loews Corp. (L)  slumped 5.2 percent as Chief Executive
Officer James Tisch said he’s “very concerned” about the global
economy after profit fell for a third-straight quarter. A
measure of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes dropped 2 percent as
Citigroup Inc. said the industry’s shares may decline after this
year’s surge.  The  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW)  jumped 55 percent, the most since going
public in 1993, after Chicago Bridge & Iron Co. agreed to buy
the company for about $3 billion to expand its portfolio of
engineering and construction projects across the energy
industry.  Fed policy makers meet this week before a jobs report to
decide whether additional stimulus is needed to combat a
slowdown in the world’s biggest economy. Labor Department data
on Aug. 3 is forecast by economists to show U.S. employers added
100,000 jobs to payrolls in July and the  unemployment rate  held
at 8.2 percent. Other data may show manufacturing stagnated in
July and  consumer confidence  fell for a fifth month.  Further Easing  “It’s increasingly likely that the Fed and European
Central Bank will ease further by September,” said  Masamichi Adachi , a senior economist at JPMorgan Securities in Tokyo and a
former central bank official. In Japan, the government may
implement a supplementary budget by September, with the central
bank expanding asset purchases, Adachi said.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  has gained for eight straight weeks, its
longest rally in more than six years. It has rebounded 13
percent from its low for the year in June. Air France-KLM Group
surged 19 percent as Europe’s biggest airline reported a
narrower-than-estimated loss. JC Decaux SA sank 6.9 percent
after the French billboard company said so-called organic
revenue was lower than forecast in the second quarter.  The euro declined 0.8 percent versus the yen, falling for
the first time in four days.  Krona Rallies  The Swedish krona rose against all 16 of its most-traded
peers, appreciating 1.7 percent against the euro and 1.2 percent
versus the dollar after Statistics Sweden data showed gross
domestic product unexpectedly accelerated in the second quarter.
GDP grew 1.4 percent, beating a median forecast for a gain of
0.2 percent in a survey of economists by Bloomberg.  The cost of insuring European corporate and sovereign bonds
using credit-default swaps declined for a fourth day. The Markit
iTraxx Crossover Index of swaps on 50 mostly junk-rated European
companies fell 15 basis points to 626. The  Markit iTraxx SovX
Western Europe Index  tied to the debt of 15 governments dropped
20 basis points to 255.  Draghi’s proposal involves Europe’s rescue fund buying
 government bonds  on the primary market, buttressed by ECB
purchases on the secondary market to ensure transmission of its
record-low  interest rates , two central bank officials said July
27 on condition of anonymity. Further ECB rate cuts and long-
term loans to banks are also up for discussion, one of the
officials said.  ‘Structural Adjustment’  “Given the sheer scale of the structural adjustment that
is still needed in Europe and accelerating capital flight from
peripheral countries to the core, it will take extraordinary
efforts from the ECB to implement lasting solutions,” said Kaha Kiknavelidze, London-based managing partner at Rioni Capital
Partners LLP, an  emerging-markets  hedge fund that manages $30
million.  Draghi must now deliver or face a renewed selloff on bond
markets, where soaring Spanish and Italian yields have fueled
speculation that the monetary union could fall apart. The ECB
chief is also attempting to win over Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, a critic of ECB bond purchases.  Figures tomorrow may show euro-area unemployment climbed to
a record 11.2 percent last month, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Italian 10-year bonds stayed lower after the nation sold
5.5 billion euros ($6.8 billion) of government debt due between
2015 and 2022. The 10-year yield climbed seven basis points to
6.03 percent. The rate on Italian five-year notes added three
basis point to 5.38 percent after increasing as much as 12
points earlier.  Emerging Markets  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.8 percent to a
three-week high. The  Hang Seng China Enterprise Index (HSCEI)  of
mainland companies listed in Hong Kong gained 1.3 percent, while
the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  added 1.8 percent. The Micex Index
jumped 1.5 percent in Moscow. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell
0.9 percent to the lowest level since March 2009.  Japan’s bonds fell, sending 10-year yields up the most in
seven weeks. Japan’s industrial output decreased 0.1 percent in
June from May, when it declined 3.4 percent, the Trade Ministry
said. The median estimate of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a 1.5 percent increase.  The nation’s benchmark 10-year bond, which saw yields slide
to nine-year lows last week, led declines amid speculation
traders sold the notes ahead of an auction on Aug. 2. The 10-
year yield advanced 3 1/2 basis points, or 0.035 percentage
point, to close at 0.78 percent, according to Japan Bond Trading
Co., Japan’s largest interdealer debt broker. That was the
highest level since July 12 and the sharpest rise since June 5.  Corn Surges  December-delivery corn climbed as much as 3.1 percent to
$8.1775 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. Soybeans for
November delivery jumped as much as 2.9 percent to $16.648 a
bushel and wheat for September delivery gained as much as 2.4
percent to $9.1975 a bushel.  The drought in the Midwest is unlikely to be broken in the
six to 10 days from July 27, as rains that fell in many parts of
the region were not enough to improve conditions, Telvent DTN
Inc. said.  Crop conditions are the poorest since 1988 and parts of the
U.S. are suffering from the worst drought since 1956. Corn has
soared 61 percent since June 15, signaling higher food prices
and boosting costs for producers of meat and ethanol.  Oil for September delivery fell 0.4 percent to $89.78 a
barrel in  New York  as a stronger dollar weighed on crude.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  