-- Muffat Takes Adlington’s Title to Leave Britain Waiting for Gold
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-29T21:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/muffat-takes-adlington-s-title-to-leave-britain-waiting-for-gold.html
Britain’s wait for a first gold
medal of the  Olympic Games  continues after Camille Muffat of
 France  took home favorite Rebecca Adlington’s 400-meter
freestyle swimming title.  Muffat, 23, touched the wall in an Olympic record 4 minutes,
1.45 seconds, ahead of Allison Schmitt, 22, of the U.S. in
4:01.77. Adlington, a double winner in Beijing four years ago,
clocked 4:03.01 for the bronze medal. World record holder
Federica Pellegrini of Italy, the only woman to complete the
event in less than 4 minutes, finished fifth.  “Being an Olympic champion was the most difficult dream to
reach,” Muffat told reporters. “I knew this year I was the
best, but I didn’t expect to win.”  The 23-year-old Adlington has been the face of U.K.
swimming since she won the 400 and 800-meter freestyle titles at
the last games. Fans in the 17,500-capacity Aquatics Centre in
 London  had been hoping for her to kick-start Britain’s climb up
the medal table on the second day of competition after the host
finished without a podium place yesterday.  Cyclist Elizabeth Armitstead won silver in the women’s road
race today for Britain’s first medal of the games.  “Twelve years of hard work have gone into that,” said
Adlington, who was in sixth place during the middle portion of
the race. “I’m pleased with that. I’ve got a medal at a games,
not many people can say that.”  France’s team of Amaury Leveaux, Fabien Gilot, Clement
Lefert and Yannick Agnel also clinched the men’s 400-meter
freestyle relay by a margin of 0.45 seconds from the U.S.  Beijing Revisited  The Americans -- Nathan Adrian,  Michael Phelps , Cullen Jones and  Ryan Lochte  -- led until the last leg, when Agnel
outpaced Lochte to clinch the gold medal.  Russia  defeated world
champion  Australia  for the bronze medal. France was an outsider
at 7-1 with William Hill Plc.  France and the U.S. swam a similar race in the 2008
Olympics in Beijing, when the Americans were victorious. Then
Jason Lazek of the U.S. out-swam 100-meter individual freestyle
gold medalist Alain Bernard to give his team the win. Bernard
was left off France’s relay team this time around.  After two of his seven events, Phelps has yet to add to his
record tally of 14 gold medals. Today’s silver means he’s now
one short of tying the record 18 Olympic medals won by Soviet
gymnast Larissa Latynina.  Vollmer’s Record  Dana Vollmer, a 24-year-old American, broke the world record
to take the 100-meter butterfly gold. Her time of 55.98 seconds
was the first below 56 seconds in the event.  Vollmer trailed at halfway to  Denmark ’s Jeanette Ottesen
before storming to victory ahead of China’s Lu Ying, who
finished in 56.87 seconds, and Alicia Coutts of Australia. Sarah
Sjorstrom, whose three-year-old record Vollmer broke, was in
tears after the race. She placed fourth.  Vollmer had a wide smile throughout the medal presentation,
during which she waved with both hands. She said she managed to
get the best time even though “I didn’t feel so good in the
last 50.”  “It was everything I have ever dreamed of, ” Vollmer told
reporters. “I put that time in my head and I knew I could do
it.”  Lochte Advances  Lochte, who yesterday dethroned Phelps to take the 400-
meter individual medley title, qualified for the 200-meter
freestyle final after finishing second to  Germany ’s Paul Biedermann, 25, in the first semifinal.  The 27-year-old Lochte’s time of 1:46.31 was the fifth
fastest after the second semifinal.  China ’s Sun Yang won that in
1:45.61 ahead of fellow 20-year-old Agnel and Korean Taehwan
Park, 22. All three men finished quicker than Biedermann’s
1:46.10.  Cameron van der Burgh, 24, followed Vollmer into the
history books. The South African won the 100-meters breaststroke
in a world’s best 58.46 seconds.  “I’ve been working towards this goal,” van der Burgh said.
“It’s amazing. I’ve been doing so much hard work over the last
four years.”  Adlington scraped into the final after her victory in her
heat turned out to be the eighth-fastest overall. Muffat clocked
the fastest time at 4:03.29, more than two seconds better than
Adlington’s 4:05:75. Pellegrini, the world champion from  Italy ,
made the final in seventh place in a time of 4:05:30.  No Expectations  Adlington, the only British swimmer to win gold at the last
Olympics, said after qualifying that she wasn’t “expecting
anything” because of her placing.  Backed by a vocal home support, Adlington fought back after
falling into sixth place, although she was too far back to
threaten the lead. Muffat had a marginal advantage during every
split over Schmitt.  “I knew it was going to be tough and I knew it was going
to be close, even before it happened,” Schmitt said. “I was
just racing the whole time. I’m excited to get my first
individual medal.”  Adlington’s battle with Pellegrini, 23, was one of the
stories of the pool in Beijing. The Italian took the 200-meter
freestyle before Adlington beat her in the 400-meter race and
swam a world record time to get her second victory in the 800
meters, an event Pellegrini chose not to participate in.  Pellegrini is a pinup in Italy and one of the country’s
most popular athletes. Her success has helped secure seven
endorsement deals with companies including Emporio Armani and
energy supplier Enel SpA. Adlington has three sponsors including
British Gas and confectionary brand Cadbury.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Olympic Park at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in Olympic Park at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  