-- Munich Olympics, Murders Caught in ‘Visions of 8’: DVD
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-07-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/munich-olympics-murders-caught-in-visions-of-8-dvd.html
The most famous Olympics
documentaries are Leni Riefenstahl’s “ Olympia ,” about the 1936
Berlin Olympics, and  Kon Ichikawa ’s 1965 “ Tokyo Olympiad ,”
which is as almost as great as “Olympia” and has the added
benefit of being Hitler-free.  A third Olympics documentary, “ Visions of 8 ,” while not
nearly as well known, has its own marvels. It’s available on DVD
from Olive Films and very much worth checking out as we immerse
ourselves in the  Summer Olympics .  Producer  David Wolper  had the high concept of showcasing
the work of eight (originally 10) international filmmakers
covering the 1972 Munich Olympics in stand-alone, 10-minute
segments. The directors, most of whom had little experience in
documentaries, chose their own crews and filmed the events as
they saw fit.  Inevitably, as these mini-films play off each other, the
movie itself becomes something of an Olympic event. Who will get
the medals for best movie-making?  The most famous filmmakers in the bunch are  Mai Zetterling 
(“The Strongest,” about weightlifters);  Arthur Penn  (“The
Highest,” pole vaulters); Ichikawa (“The Fastest,” men’s 100
meter dash);  Claude Lelouch  (“The Losers”);  Milos Forman 
(“The Decathlon”) and  John Schlesinger  (“The Longest,”
marathoners).  Murders Acknowledged  Schlesinger’s is the only segment that fully acknowledges
the “Black September” terrorist attacks, in which 11 Israeli
athletes and coaches, and a West German policeman, were
murdered. In almost none of the segments are the individual
athletes identified.  The West German director Michael Pfleghar shows a
remarkable eye for athletic grace in “The Women,” which
features the supernally limber Soviet gymnast Ludmilla
Tourischeva. He shows us her entire routine on the uneven
parallel bars and you sit there dumbstruck at how supple a body
can be.  Unlike a lot of sports filmmakers, Pfleghar understands
that often the best way to capture poetry in motion is to simply
let the motion play out its poetry unimpeded by a lot of fancy
camerawork and zooms and slo-mo.  Having said that, there are two segments in “Visions of
8,” Penn’s and Ichikawa’s, in which the action is severely, and
optimally, slowed down.  Silent Movie  Penn’s entry begins daringly. Not only is the imagery a
slo-mo crawl, it’s also out of focus and the soundtrack is
silent. Gradually the visuals sharpen, the stadium sounds come
up, but, for the most part, the pole vaulters rising into the
sky remain superslow abstractions.  Along with his great editor Dede Allen, who cut “ Bonnie
and Clyde ,” Penn anatomizes the action without ever losing
sight of the fact that these athletes, including USA’s Bob
Seagren, are men and not gods (as Riefenstahl might have us
believe).  Ichikawa films the 100-meter dash, which takes about 10
seconds in real time, in excruciatingly slow motion, so that it
lasts about six minutes. We see the runner’s faces mashed into
gargoyle contortions by the flattening force of the air. Using
multiple high-speed cameras, Ichikawa conveys the full agony of
the event.  One of the annoyances of Olympics coverage on TV is that so
much attention is given to the medalists and hardly any to the
athletes left out of the winners’ circle.  Ranting Boxer  Lelouch’s “The Losers,” by welcome contrast, shows us a
boxer who rants in the ring after his defeat; wrestlers gamely
trying to fight after tearing ligaments and dislocating limbs;
swimmers treading befuddled in the pool after their last losing
lap. (Needless to say, Mark Spitz does not figure greatly in
this segment).  Zetterling’s weight lifters, all muscle all the time, are
in some cases humbled by the bar, one of which takes five men to
carry off the stage.  My favorite moment comes at the end, in Schlesinger’s
segment. After the events have all but wrapped up and closing
speeches delivered, a lone marathoner, many miles and hours
behind the pack, sprints into the darkened stadium, his head
held high.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Craig
Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  