-- Used Lamborghinis Linger on H.K. Lots Amid China Lull
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-29T16:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/used-lamborghinis-linger-on-h-k-lots-amid-china-lull.html
Waiting lists for ultra-luxury cars
in  Hong Kong  are getting shorter and used-car lots are cutting
prices on Lamborghinis, Ferraris and Bentleys in the latest sign
of  China ’s slowdown.  At first glance, the numbers are deceiving: Sales of very
expensive new autos surged 47 percent in the first six months,
according to industry analyst  IHS Automotive . Look more deeply,
however, and another picture emerges, especially in the city’s
used-car lots.  Dealers of such second-hand cars say job cuts and the
worsening global economic outlook are creating uncertainty among
the finance-industry and expatriate professionals who make up
the bulk of their buyers.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
Deutsche Bank AG are among firms with Asian headquarters in Hong
Kong that are cutting jobs worldwide.  “The more expensive the car, the more dry the business,”
said Tommy Siu at the Causeway Bay showroom of Vin’s Motors Co.,
the used-car dealership he founded two decades ago. Sales of
ultra-luxury cars have fallen by half in the past two or three
months, he said. “A lot of bankers don’t want to spend too much
money for a car now. At this moment, they don’t know if they’ll             have
a big bonus.”  Unlike  Rolex  watches, Gucci handbags and other  luxury
goods , Hong Kong’s car market hasn’t been distorted by the more
than 28 million mainland Chinese who flocked to the city last
year. Mainland shoppers spend 44 billion euros ($54 billion) on
luxury goods while traveling overseas to locations such as Hong
Kong and  Europe , according to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  ‘True Look’  “In the car market, it’s not buying like watches,” said
 Bill Russo , a Beijing-based senior adviser at Booz & Co. “Here
you are getting a true look at a category of product bought by
Hong Kong buyers. It’s a pulse check on how Hong Kong residents
view the stability of the financial system.”  The new-car figures look better because of some short-term
developments. The release of the latest models from Ferrari and
Lamborghini and the opening of the first Hong Kong showroom by
 McLaren  -- maker of the 592-horsepower MP4-12C carbon-fiber
coupe -- have given sales a bump. Meantime, depressed demand in
Europe means a bigger allocation of new cars for Hong Kong
dealers.  With the highest proportion of billionaires in the world,
according to a Boston Consulting Group  report  released in May,
Hong Kong has enough buyers unaffected by market conditions to
keep new sales going, Booz & Co.’s Russo said.  ‘Saying Something’  There were 273 new Bentleys, Lamborghinis, Rolls Royces,
Ferraris, Aston Martins and McLarens sold in the six months to
June 30, up from 186 in the first half of last year, according
to Englewood, Colorado-based IHS. This outpaced the 23 percent
gain in the U.S., the world’s richest nation, and the 40 percent
jump in mainland China, the world’s biggest car market, IHS data
show.  For these buyers, price isn’t an issue and settling for
second-hand is not an option, Russo said.  “It’s the brand image and it says something about you,”
said Russo, who was formerly Chrysler Group LLC’s China head.
“Used-car buyers are more price sensitive and economic cycles
will affect these shoppers more. They are paying for the cars
with their income as opposed to their savings.”  The  European debt crisis  is slowing expansion in  emerging
markets  including China, the  International Monetary Fund  said
this month, when cutting its global economic growth forecast for
next year to 3.9 percent from 4.1 percent.  Aspirational Buyers  Hong Kong’s economy eked out 0.4 percent growth in the
first quarter, the slowest since escaping the recession caused
by the 2008 global credit crisis. Average daily turnover on the
city’s  stock  exchange, the world’s fourth biggest, was 22
percent lower in the first half than the corresponding period of
2011. Asia-Pacific takeovers have dropped 22 percent to $306
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  People shopping in the second-hand market are typically
aspirational buyers who are more likely to sit it out rather
than trade down when they can’t afford the brand they want.  “An uncertain economic outlook encourages consumers,
particularly those without a buffer provided by sizeable
financial assets, to pause on big-ticket purchases,” said Tom
Rafferty, a London-based  Economist Intelligence Unit  analyst.  Vin’s Siu said the drop in high-end customers who typically
account for 30 percent of turnover at his 300-lot business was
the most important factor behind a 20 percent drop in total
sales. Expatriates made up about 70 percent of customers, he
said. “A lot of expats are leaving Hong Kong,” he said. “For
every 10 who are leaving, two are coming.”  Mercedes Discount  To spur demand, dealers in pre-owned cars are slashing
their prices -- together with how much they’re willing to pay
sellers.  A yellow, 2011 Lamborghini Gallardo 550 recently listed for
HK$2.88 million ($371,000) on second-hand car website  28car.com 
is about $830,000 cheaper than a new model -- chump change that
would buy a new Mercedes E-Class Coupe to run the kids to
school. A silver-gray 2011 Ferrari California with 980
kilometers (613 miles) on the clock is available for HK$2.68
million. That’s a 19 percent discount to a brand new 2012
vehicle, and HK$400,000 cheaper than a 2011 version sold by
Ferrari’s official in-house used-car  dealer .  “We started cutting prices at the beginning of the year to
stimulate sales because the market was slow,” said  Tony Chan , a
director at GP Motors a short walk up the hill from Vin’s,
adding that second-hand Ferraris and Bentleys are leaving the
30-lot dealership at half the speed of last year.  Someone looking to sell a 2009 Bentley Continental will
have to accept HK$1.7 million, a third less than they would have
received at the start of the year, Chan said.  In the basement automall beside Hong Kong’s Grand Hyatt
hotel, trader Samuel Chui said he has stopped buying more cars.  “People want cash now, they don’t want the commodity,”
said Chui, who reduced the number of car lots he rents from 15
to nine at the end of last year as business began to slow.
“We’ve got plenty of stock and it’s not moving.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  