-- Hutchison Seeks Europe Assets as Austria Review Extended
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-07-30T06:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/hutchison-s-fok-sees-company-as-phone-consolidator-in-europe.html
Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13)  would be a buyer rather than seller of European
telecommunications assets as its 1.3 billion-euro ($1.6 billion)
proposed takeover of an Austrian rival drew regulatory scrutiny.  “If there is ever a consolidation to be done, then we are
the consolidator, not the consolidated,” Managing Director
Canning Fok said in Vienna yesterday. “We’ll end up being the
surviving leader. I’m not interested in anything less.”  As the biggest Asian investor in mobile-phone networks in
Europe, Hong Kong-based Hutchison’s Three division operates in
countries including Italy, the U.K. and Sweden. In Austria, the
European Commission last month opened a full antitrust probe
into Hutchison’s takeover of Orange Austria. Hutchison will seek
a judicial review if the transaction is blocked and won’t commit
to the plan for an unlimited time, Fok said.  A purchase of Orange Austria, owned by  France Telecom SA (FTE) 
and Mid Europa Partners, would aid competition by making the
third-biggest Austrian mobile-phone company stronger, according
to Fok. Hutchison and Orange Austria together would have a 22
percent market share, behind  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  and  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit.  “The longer the process takes, the weaker the business
case will be,” Fok told reporters yesterday.  Yesss! Sale  As part of the February transaction, Hutchison agreed to
sell Orange Austria assets including mobile carrier Yesss! to
Vienna-based  Telekom Austria  for 390 million euros. Now,
Hutchison has further offered access to its Austrian network to
an unidentified company to provide services as a so-called
mobile virtual network operator. Other interested parties may
also ask to take part in the arrangement, which would aid
competition, Fok said.  The Orange Austria takeover would fall through if the
Yesss! sale were to fail as each transaction is “conditional”
on the other’s completion, said Jan Trionow, chief executive
officer of Hutchison Austria. Orange Austria would have too much
debt without proceeds from the disposal, Fok said.  Even if the Orange Austria acquisition fails, Hutchison
won’t sell its Austrian business, Fok said.  As Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis reduced  consumer spending 
on phone services, falling valuation of the region’s phone
companies has attracted investors outside the region including
Li and  Carlos Slim , the world’s richest man. Slim’s  America
Movil (AMXL)  SAB last month acquired stakes in Telekom Austria and
Dutch operator Royal  KPN NV. (KPN)   Irish Bid  Hutchison in May made a 2 billion-euro bid for Eircom
Group, the Irish phone company in supervised credit protection
The offer was rejected partly because it would have doubled the
losses suffered by the operator’s most-senior lenders. Hutchison
has since moved on and agreed this month with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) 
to combine their mobile-phone networks in the country.  The economic crisis in Europe “is very good for us, as a
newcomer,” Fok said, as customers looking to conserve cash are
more likely to flock to the lower-cost offering and one-month
contracts of Hutchison’s Three unit.  “In good times, people don’t see the value that we’re
offering as that relevant,” Fok said. “But in times like this,
it’s very good for us. We have growth.”  In Italy, Hutchison held discussions last year over a sale
its Three unit to  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , but the talks didn’t
result in a deal, people with knowledge of the matter have said.  Windows Phone  “I can last for a thousand years” in Italy, where
Hutchison has the country’s lowest-cost mobile-phone network,
Fok said. Three had 9.2 million customers in Italy as of March
28, the most of any European country Hutchison operates in.  To broaden Three’s smartphone portfolio, Fok said the
company is interested in offering  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s new phones using
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 8 software. He would be “surprised”
if talks with the Finnish handset maker weren’t already
underway, he said.  Three  reported  28.9 million customers in Europe as of March
28. Hutchison, which invests in ports, retail, utilities,
property as well as phone networks, is scheduled to report
first-half earnings on Aug. 2.  Hutchison’s shares rose as much as 1.6 percent to HK$69.70
and were up 1.3 percent as of 2:11 p.m. in  Hong Kong . The stock
had gained 5.5 percent this year through July 27.  A group of Li-controlled companies last week agreed to
agreed to pay 645 million pounds ($1 billion) in cash for Wales
& West Utilities Ltd. to almost double the size of the gas
transmission businesses his companies control in the U.K.  Fok yesterday confirmed the Hong Kong conglomerate’s
interest in acquiring a stake in Manchester Airports Group,
owner of Britain’s busiest airport outside of London.  The company aims to increase European investments this year
as it benefits from growth in telecommunications, skin care,
container terminals and the region’s “quite recession-proof”
utilities industry, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Vienna at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  