-- Wall Street’s Kangaroo Court Gets a Black Eye
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-07-29T22:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-29/wall-street-s-kangaroo-court-gets-a-black-eye.html
“Sunlight is said to be the best of
disinfectants,” the future Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis
famously wrote in a 1913 article for Harpers’ Weekly, and now,
almost 100 years later, there is evidence that Brandeis was
right.  On July 9, I wrote a  column  describing how the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority,  Wall Street ’s self-policing
organization, seemingly out of nowhere fired three arbitrators
in the months after a May 2011 case in which they awarded
$520,000 to the estate of the late Robert Postell. The finding
was against Postell’s former broker, Merrill Lynch, a subsidiary
of  Bank of America Corp .  One after another over a period of about a year, the
arbitrators -- Ilene Gormly, Daniel Kolber and Fred Pinckney --
received what are known as “black spot” letters from Finra,
removing them from the roster of those empowered to adjudicate
the thousands of lawsuits brought each year by Wall Street
employees and customers against financial firms.  The black spot letters described how Finra periodically
examines the list of arbitrators and culls people from it. Finra
officials have said that Gormly, Kolber and Pinckney weren’t
removed because Merrill’s lawyer complained to the authority
about the sizable award granted to Postell, who died after
filing the claim, and his wife, Joan. Was it truly a
coincidence? Finra derives the vast majority of its more than $1
billion in annual revenue from securities firms, and executives
in the industry serve on Finra’s board of governors.  My column on the matter caused a bit of a stir around Finra
-- as well as at the Public Investors Arbitration Bar
Association, a group of about 500 or so lawyers who represent
claimants in Finra arbitrations. Letters started flying between
a Finra executive and a Piaba executive explaining the steps
Finra takes when it removes an arbitrator. Finra’s goal was to
show that its actions in the firing of Gormly, Kolber and
Pinckney were for good, albeit unstated, reasons.  Finra’s justifications rang hollow, and on July 25 the
organization took the remarkable step of reinstating all three
arbitrators to the Finra roster. In a letter to the arbitrators,
Linda Fienberg, the president of Finra’s dispute resolution and
its chief hearing officer, explained that “after reading the
commentary” from Bloomberg View she and her fellow Finra
executives “re-opened the matter.” They listened to tapes of
the Postell arbitration proceedings and “reached a different
conclusion regarding the alleged inappropriate conduct from the
conclusion previously reached.” (Finra provided me with a copy
of the letter.)  Still, Fienberg alleged unspecified “inaccuracies” in my
reporting and disputed the causal relationship between the
firing of the three arbitrators and the complaints from Merrill
and its attorney about the Postell award. “There is no validity
to this assertion,” Fienberg wrote. “Finra simply does not
remove arbitrators from the roster based upon their awards, and
never has.”  Maybe.  Andrew Stoltmann , a lawyer in  Chicago  who sues Wall
Street firms, contacted me after seeing my column to say he has
never heard of three arbitrators being removed in the way that
Gormly, Kolber and Pinckney were. “I’ve handled close to 1,000
Finra arbitrations over the years,” he wrote in an e-mail. “To
think Finra removes arbitrators and but for news coverage like
this those arbitrators would have stayed out is extraordinary
troubling. Finra’s major credibility problem is directly related
to issues like these.”  One would like to think the reinstatement of the three
arbitrators ends the matter in a very satisfying way. But, alas,
it doesn’t. Merrill Lynch, through its attorney, Terry Weiss of
 Greenberg Traurig , has asked a federal judge in Atlanta to throw
out the $520,000 award to the Postells. Weiss argued in his
motion to vacate that the arbitrators “exhibited evident
partiality,” “misbehaved such that Merrill Lynch’s rights were
prejudiced,” “exceeded their powers by taking over the
arbitration, conducting hostile cross examination of Merrill
Lynch’s witnesses on irrelevant topics” and “refusing Merrill
Lynch’s request that the biased arbitrators recuse themselves.”
(Neither the three arbitrators nor I were aware of this motion
when I wrote the July 9 column.)  Weiss attached a copy of my column to a motion he filed
with the federal court to supplement the record. Weiss had the
chutzpah to argue that the dismissal of the arbitrators was a
smoking gun showing that the panel had done something
egregiously wrong in the Postell arbitration. Now, with Finra
having cleared the arbitrators of wrongdoing, Weiss has boxed
himself into a corner in the legal argument department.  My previous column also brought complaints that because,
almost 10 years ago, I pursued my own arbitration against
 JPMorgan Chase Co. (JPM)  -- and lost -- I am biased against Wall
Street arbitration. No. What I am against is the sham that so
often passes for justice on Wall Street these days. The millions
of people who either work there or who have brokerage accounts
sign away, upfront, their legal right to resolve financial
disputes in a court of law. They are forced into Finra
arbitration and most don’t have a clue they have relinquished
their ability to resolve it any other way.  Finra’s treatment of Gormly, Kolber and Pinckney -- despite
their reinstatements -- illustrates just how shoddy the system
is. It needs to be scrapped, and those with a grievance against
Wall Street should get their day in a real court.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  France ’s  misguided
transaction tax  and on how to  improve the farm bill ;  Noah
Feldman  on the  NCAA’s unconvincing sanctions ;  Albert R. Hunt  on
 rating U.S. presidents ; Luigi Zingales on a  European banking
union ; Raymond Bonner on the  FDA’s immoral policy  on lethal-
injection drugs.  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 