-- Manulife May Double Asia Wealth Assets Within 5 Years
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2011-01-28T15:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-27/manulife-may-double-wealth-assets-in-asia-to-75-billion-within-five-years.html
  Manulife Financial Corp ., Canada’s
largest insurer, may almost double assets under management at
its Asian wealth-management business over five years, bolstered
by increased demand for equities and fixed-income funds.  The unit of has about $38 billion in assets under
management, compared with about $12 billion five years ago, said
Michael Dommermuth, president of Manulife Asset Management in
Asia.  “Over the next five years, if I extrapolate that present
growth rate, I wouldn’t be surprised to see our assets under
management go to $75 billion,” Dommermuth said in a telephone
interview yesterday from Hong Kong.  Manulife Chief Executive Officer Donald Guloien told
investors in November that rising sales in Asia will help to
propel profit to C$4 billion ($4.03 billion) by 2015.  Asia  may
produce profit of C$1.5 billion by that year, compared with
C$284 million in the first nine months of 2010.  “It’s a growth story,” said Dommermuth, 48. “The thing
that’s attracting people is that it’s growing at a much more
rapid pace than the U.S. or  Europe .”  Manulife rose 2 cents to C$17.78 at 10:03 a.m. in Toronto
Stock Exchange trading. The stock has risen 3.7 percent this
month.  Dommermuth pointed to products such as Manulife’s Asian
Total Return Fund, which has returned about 11 percent over the
past year, compared with 4.2 percent for Bloomberg’s Active
Indices for Funds. The fund invests in Asian markets through
government, corporate bonds and currencies, according to the
insurer’s  website .  Hiring Plans  Manulife has operated in  Asia  for more than 100 years. It
offers mutual funds and other wealth-management products in  Hong
Kong , Japan,  Taiwan ,  China ,  Singapore , Indonesia, Malaysia,
Thailand, Vietnam and the Philippines.  The insurer bought Fortis Bank SA/NV’s 49 percent stake in
a Chinese wealth-management joint venture last year. The unit is
now known as Manulife TEDA Fund Management Co.  The owner of Boston-based John Hancock Financial, Manulife
has 80 investment professionals in Hong Kong, Taiwan and China.
Dommermuth said future hiring will “pretty much track our
growth in assets under management.”  Manulife is considering expansion in India. The company
signed an agreement last year with Kotak Mahindra (UK) Ltd. to
provide advice on Indian equities.  “India is an area of interest to us,” Dommermuth said.
“I think we’re in the very early stages of considering what
that  India  presence should be.”  Manulife, based in Toronto, is scheduled to report fourth-
quarter earnings on Feb. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 