-- Aquino to Keep Tetangco as Philippine Central Bank Chief, Extending Term
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2011-01-28T06:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-27/aquino-to-keep-tetangco-as-philippine-central-bank-chief-extending-term.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
said he will give central bank Governor Amando Tetangco a fresh
six-year mandate when his term ends in July.  “I have confidence in him,” Aquino said in a mobile-phone
message reply to Bloomberg News yesterday. “I like what he has
already accomplished. My economic team recommended this course
of action.”  A veteran of Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas for more than
three decades, Tetangco, 58, has kept inflation below 5 percent
in the past 21 months while holding the benchmark interest rate
at a record low since July 2009. The governor faces a year in
which inflation is forecast by the central bank to accelerate
while economic expansion slows.  Inflation may quicken to 4.2 percent this year “if upside
risks materialize,” Tetangco said in a briefing today. Still,
consumer price gains will be within the bank’s 3 percent to
5 percent target for 2011 and 2012, Tetangco said at a briefing
in  Manila  today.  “There’s no urgency to change the monetary policy
stance,” Tetangco said. The central bank will “sharpen”
monetary tools to better forecast inflation, he said. He
yesterday said the bank will work “tirelessly” to control
inflation while boosting economic growth.  Philippine growth probably slowed to 6 percent in the
fourth quarter from 6.5 percent in the previous three months,
according to the median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The government will report the data on Jan. 31.  The  Philippines  seeks to expand its $161 billion economy by
as much as 8 percent this year.  ‘Taming Inflation  Tetangco “has done an excellent job,” Finance Secretary
Cesar Purisima said yesterday in a mobile-phone message. “His
reappointment provides continuity and stability in the
management of the financial system,” Purisima said.  Moody’s Investors Service on Jan. 6 raised the nation’s
debt rating outlook to positive from stable, citing the
“successful conduct of monetary policy.” from stable. Moody’s
rates the nation’s debt at Ba3, three levels below investment
grade.  “His prowess in taming inflation has been tested,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at Banco de Oro
Unibank Inc., the Philippines’ largest lender. “It reassures
investors of continuity of reforms, timely and sound monetary
policies,” he said.  The 7 percent, five-year benchmark bond yield fell 88
basis points this week to 5.375 percent, declining by the most
since the notes were first sold two years ago. The peso is
headed for its best week in more than three months.  ‘Battle-Tested’  Tetangco, who had a heart bypass operation in February 2010,
succeeded the late Rafael Buenaventura as Bangko Sentral
governor in 2005. An economics graduate from the Ateneo de
Manila University, he started his career with the central bank
in 1974.  He worked his way from statistician at the bank’s economic
research department to become one of three deputy governors and
eventually the head. Tetangco advised the  International Monetary
Fund  from 1992 to 1994. Outside of work, he’s a practical-
shooting enthusiast, as is President Aquino.  “Re-appointing a highly regarded, battle-tested central
banker provides continuity and certainty at a crucial time when
rating upgrades are within reach,” Philippine National Bank
President Eugene Acevedo said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  