-- Boston Scientific Sued by U.S. Over Defibrillators at Issue in Guilty Plea
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2011-01-28T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-27/boston-scientific-sued-by-u-s-over-defective-cardiac-devices-stock-drops.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  sued  Boston Scientific Corp . and its Guidant units for allegedly
knowingly selling defective implantable electronic heartbeat-
regulating defibrillators.  Guidant, which Boston Scientific bought in 2006 for $27.5
billion, hid problems with its defibrillators from patients,
doctors and the  Food and Drug Administration , according to the
lawsuit filed yesterday in  Minnesota  federal court. In February
2010, Guidant pleaded guilty to misleading the FDA about the
problems. It paid a total of $296 million.  Guidant knew as early as 2002 that implantable cardiac
devices known as Prizm 2 had a potentially life-threatening
defect, yet it still sold them, the U.S. claimed. The company
also knew as early as 2003 that its implantable cardiac device
known as the Renewal had a similar life-threatening defect, and
it sold them anyway, according to the complaint.  “Patients with serious heart conditions who depend on
these devices should not have to second-guess whether they are
safe and effective,”  Tony West , assistant attorney general in
the Justice Department’s civil division, said in a statement.
Concealing the problems wasted taxpayer money and put lives at
risk, he said.  Paul Donovan, a spokesman for Natick, Massachusetts-based
Boston Scientific, said in an e-mail: “We have been aware of
the government’s interest in this civil matter, and we have
previously disclosed it in our regulatory filings. Guidant plans
to respond to the government’s allegations and claims for
damages in the appropriate fashion.”  ‘Reasonably Foreseeable’  By selling defective devices when it was also selling
corrected ones, “it was reasonably foreseeable” that defective
versions would be implanted in Medicare patients, according to
the complaint. Guidant “knowingly caused approximately 2,000
false or fraudulent claims to be submitted to the Medicare
program,” the U.S. claimed.  The complaint cited 10 examples of false claims to Medicare
for reimbursements ranging from $20,201 to $46,130. The U.S.
seeks triple damages for all of the false claims.  The U.S. previously joined a lawsuit filed in 2008 under
the  False Claims Act  by a whistleblower, James Allen, who had a
device implanted. The law allows private citizens to sue on
behalf of the government and share in any recovery.  Boston Scientific, the world’s second-largest heart-device
maker, agreed in 2007 to pay $240 million to settle more than
8,000 lawsuits claiming Guidant hid defibrillator defects.  Guidant LLC pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of
submitting false and misleading reports to the FDA and failing
and refusing to report a medical device correction. The company
was fined $253.9 million and forfeited $42 million. U.S.
District Judge Donovan W. Frank accepted the plea on Jan. 12 in
Minnesota.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Allen v. Guidant LLC, 11-cv-00022,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 