-- Fed Faulted for Lax Mortgage Regulation Before Financial Crisis
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2011-01-27T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-27/fed-faulted-for-lax-mortgage-regulation-before-financial-crisis.html
The  Federal Reserve  failed to
forestall the housing bubble or prevent the abusive lending
practices that contributed to it, the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission said in a report, embracing a lesson that legislators
have already tried to correct with new laws.  The central bank didn’t “recognize the cataclysmic danger
posed by the housing bubble to the financial system and refused
to take timely action to constrain its growth,” the report
said. It also “failed to meet its statutory obligation to
establish and maintain prudent mortgage lending standards and to
protect against predatory lending.”  Congress wrote hundreds of pages of new financial
regulations in the Dodd-Frank Act signed into law last year. The
law established a Financial Stability Oversight Council,
comprised of the Fed and other regulators, to identify and curb
systemic risk. It also established a new Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau.  Delinquencies and defaults on home loans created havoc on  Wall Street  as the housing bubble collapsed, contributing to the
demise of Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
and sparking the most severe financial panic since the Great
Depression. More than 8 million Americans lost their jobs in the
longest recession in seven decades.  The report took aim at the buildup of risky mortgage
lending during former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan ’s tenure.
Loans to borrowers with scant or damaged credit history rose to
$625 billion by 2005, the highest in the 1999-2009 period, from
$100 billion at the start of the decade, according to data from
Inside Mortgage Finance. Today, 26 percent of those mortgages
are past due. Greenspan was chairman from Aug. 1987 until
January 2006.  Predatory Lenders  “The Federal Reserve would not use the legal system to
rein in predatory lenders,” the commission said. “From 2000 to
the end of Greenspan’s tenure in 2006, the Fed referred to the  Justice Department  only three institutions for fair lending
violations related to mortgages.”  Greenspan declined to comment, said his spokeswoman, Katie
Byers Broom. Fed spokeswoman   Michelle Smith  also declined to
comment, saying she hadn’t seen the report, which is scheduled
to be released today. A copy was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Some types of loans “facilitated the national policy of
making homeownership more broadly available,” the commission
quoted Greenspan as saying. He said  law enforcement  was the
right response to  mortgage fraud , not more supervision. He also
said that the Fed lacked the resources to fully supervise the
subprime lending subsidiaries of bank holding companies.  Supervision Versus Enforcement  “The Federal Reserve engaged in real-time assessment of
developing risks in the subprime and non-traditional mortgage
sectors,” Greenspan told the commission in April 2010
testimony. “Regulations and guidelines, however, do require
enforcement, and the structure of the Federal Reserve during my
tenure was much more focused on regulation and supervision than
on enforcement.”  The commission noted that the Fed funds itself from
interest earned on its assets, such as Treasury bonds. The Fed’s
total assets now stand at $2.43 trillion.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the commission in Sept.
2010 testimony that “innovations in mortgage lending and the
easing of standards” had a bigger effect on  house prices  than
monetary policy. He also said that the Fed was “slow to
identify and address abuses in subprime lending, especially
those outside the banking firms that the Fed regulates
directly.”  Banks Overseen  In 2005, the commission’s report says, the Fed and other
agencies conducted a “peer group” study of mortgage practices
of six companies that together originated $1.3 trillion in
mortgages in 2005, almost half the national total. There were
five banks whose holding companies were under Fed oversight,
including Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., and Wells Fargo
& Co., the report said.  The study showed “a very rapid increase in the volume of
these irresponsible loans, very risky loans,” Sabeth Siddique,
the former head of credit risk at the Fed Board’s supervision
division, told the commission. Once the agencies put out
guidance on risky mortgage lending, “we got tremendous pushback
from the industry as well as Congress as well as, you know,
internally,” Siddique told the commission.  Scott Alvarez, the Fed’s general counsel, told the
commission that the “mind-set was that there should be no
regulation; the market should take care of policing.”  Bernanke and Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo  are now working
to redesign the Fed’s oversight and have dozens of
macroeconomists, payments experts, examiners and lawyers focused
on risks to the financial system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 Ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at +1-
   lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  