-- Ex-Harvard Manager Meyer Outperformed 2010 Benchmarks by 5%
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2011-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-27/former-harvard-manager-meyer-beat-2010-targets-by-5-at-convexity-capital.html
Convexity Capital Management LP, the
$12.3 billion fund run by  Harvard University ’s former endowment
chief  Jack Meyer , told clients it beat benchmarks by 5
percentage points last year in a “mediocre” trading climate.  The Boston firm, whose investment strategy fares best in
choppy markets, exceeded targets in all four quarters without
being able to count on “irrational spreads,” “strange bumps
in the forward curves” and other anomalies, Meyer wrote in a
yearend letter to clients this month.  “We ground it out,” Meyer, 65, said in the letter, a copy
of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. “We uncovered
increasingly subtle mispricings across fixed-income and foreign-
exchange markets. We spent hundreds of hours refining our
calculators.”  Meyer outperformed a group of market indexes by an annual
average of 7.7 percentage points since he began trading in
February 2006, he said, even as volatility fell for a second
straight year. Meyer ran Harvard’s endowment, the world’s
biggest, for 15 years before leaving in 2005 with more than 30
employees amid an outcry over pay. Convexity, which attracted a
record $6.3 billion from endowments and foundations as a hedge-
fund start-up, got net deposits of $507 million in 2010.  The benchmarks with the most client assets are  Barclays
Capital  More Than Five Years TIPS Index, MSCI EAFE Net Dividends
Reinvested and Standard & Poor’s 500 Total Return. The Barclays
TIPS index, tracking inflation-protected bonds, returned 7.7
percent last year, while the MSCI index of non-U.S. stocks
climbed 7.9 percent and the  S&amp;P 500  rose 15 percent, according
to Barclays and data compiled by Bloomberg.  Meyer declined to comment.  Seeking ‘Positive Convexity’  The firm, which reported performance versus benchmarks
rather than its absolute gain, takes its name from a term used
by fixed-income traders in measuring a bond’s sensitivity to
interest-rate movements. Investors stand to win more than they
can lose in trades with “positive convexity.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, a
gauge of U.S. stock-market swings known as the Vix, dropped to
17.75 on Dec. 31 from a record high of 80.86 on Nov. 20, 2008,
amid the global financial crisis.  Convexity seeks to track the returns of indexes selected by
its clients while providing an additional gain, known as alpha,
of about 4 percentage points a year at each investment pool.
Investors can pick from a mix of 15 indexes, using different
asset classes for diversification.  Meyer employs 10 strategies centered on options trading and
asset swaps, seeking to take advantage of different market
climates. His team used a similar approach in quintupling assets
at Harvard since 1990.  2011 Outlook  Market opportunities are likely to improve this year, Meyer
said in the letter. The steepening of bond-yield curves over the
past month and “continued stresses in  Europe  and in currencies
globally could create opportunities across the board,” he
wrote.  Meyer’s former employees at Harvard Management Co. who
joined him at Convexity included bond traders Maurice Samuels
and David Mittelman, the school’s highest-paid endowment
managers in 2003, earning $35.1 million and $34.1 million,
respectively. Members of the class of 1969 wrote a letter to
then-President  Lawrence Summers , saying the money would be
better spent on scholarships.  When Convexity opened, Harvard Management pledged $500
million to the fund. Endowments make up more than half of
Meyer’s clients.  Harvard’s Returns  Meyer averaged annual gains of 16 percent in his last
decade at Harvard. The endowment rose to $25.9 billion in 2005
from $4.7 billion 15 years earlier, when he became chief
executive officer of Harvard Management. Investments at the
$27.6 billion fund, run by Jane Mendillo since July 2008, gained
11 percent in the past year, rebounding from the record 27
percent loss of 2009 spurred by the bankruptcy of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc .  “We do not intend to celebrate with marching elephants and
proclamations but we will make three observations,” Meyer
wrote. “First, performance has been a little better than
expected. Second, our team is much broader and deeper. Third, we
are considerably better at this than we were five years ago.”  Convexity, he said, is “quiet about our optimism, but
don’t think that it’s not there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in  New York  at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 