-- Obama Selects Biden Aide Jay Carney as Press Secretary to Succeed Gibbs
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2011-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-27/obama-is-said-to-select-biden-aide-jay-carney-as-his-next-press-secretary.html
President Barack Obama yesterday
picked Jay Carney, Vice President  Joe Biden ’s spokesman and a
former Time Magazine journalist, as his press secretary as he
wraps up a staff shakeup two years into his administration.  Carney, 45, will succeed  Robert Gibbs , who has worked with
Obama for more than six years and is stepping down next month to
become an outside political adviser to Obama’s 2012 re-election
campaign.  White House Chief of Staff William Daley, who was appointed
to his post earlier this month, said in an e-mail to staff
announcing Carney and other appointments that the changes are
part of a reorganization that brings “greater clarity to our
structure and roles and will enhance coordination and
collaboration among us.”  Along with naming Daley, a former  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co .
executive, as his chief of staff, Obama has in recent weeks
named a new director of the National Economic Council and
brought the manager of his 2008 campaign,  David Plouffe , to a
White House job.  Carney’s appointment was announced at the same time as
other staff changes, including two new deputy chiefs of staff.
Alyssa Mastromonaco, director of scheduling and advance, and
Nancy-Ann DeParle, head of the White House office on health-care
policy, will report to Daley. DeParle will focus on policy and
Mastromonaco on political affairs.  Rob Nabors, who previously served as deputy director of the
Office of Management and Budget, will become director of
legislative affairs.  Obama earlier this month called Gibbs “a close friend, one
of my closest advisers and an effective advocate” for the
administration.  In addition to Gibbs’s departure, senior adviser David Axelrod will be leaving the White House to work on Obama’s
campaign.  Carney, a Yale University graduate, is a former Moscow
correspondent for Time and was the magazine’s  Washington  bureau
chief through the 2008 presidential campaign. He is married to
Claire Shipman, a journalist for ABC News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 morning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 