-- Toyota May Lower Prius Price as Brand Image Changes, Nomura Research Says
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2011-01-28T08:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-27/toyota-may-lower-prius-price-as-image-changes-nomura-says.html
  Toyota Motor Corp . may lower the
price of its Prius gasoline-electric hybrid car in Japan as the
brand image of the nation’s best-selling model changes, Nomura
Research Institute Ltd. said.  Because of its high sales volume, car buyers are now more
likely to think of the Prius as a “friendly” brand than a
“leading edge” one, according to a survey conducted by
Fumikazu Kitagawa of Nomura’s global automotive practice. As a
result, it’s competing with customers who may be drawn to
cheaper cars with a strong “friendly” image, such as Honda
Motor Co.’s Fit compact, he said.  “As the Prius becomes more of a mass-market car, it may be
time to think about lowering the price,” said Kitagawa, who
polled 1,972 car owners in November.  Helped by government incentives that encouraged purchases
of fuel-efficient models, Prius sales in Japan surged 50 percent
to 315,669 vehicles in 2010, outselling Suzuki Motor Corp.’s
second-ranked Wagon R minicar by more than 100,000 units.
Earlier this month, Toyota unveiled a wagon-type and a smaller
derivative of the world’s best-selling hybrid car at the Detroit
auto show. It will introduce a plug-in Prius by 2012.  The third generation of the hybrid car was introduced in
May 2009 and was Japan’s top-selling model for the past two
years. The car is  priced  from 2.05 million yen ($24,800).  Expanded Lineup  Toyota fell 1.5 percent to 3,390 yen at the 3 p.m. close in
Tokyo trading. The stock has gained 5.3 percent in 2011.  With the expanded lineup of models bearing the Prius name,
Toyota has said it aims to broaden the appeal of its hybrids to
buyers of all ages. Men in their 50s currently make up the core
group of Prius buyers in Japan, said  Shiori Hashimoto , a company
spokeswoman in Tokyo. In the U.S., about 45 percent of buyers
are men and women over 60, she said.  “Losing the ‘leading edge’ image is not surprising given
the number of Priuses sold last year,” she said. “We are
always working toward reducing the cost of the hybrid system to
lower the price and stay competitive.”  Honda’s Fit has a starting price of 1.23 million yen in
Japan and is the best-selling gasoline model excluding minicars.
The Tokyo-based carmaker added a 1.59 million yen hybrid version
of the hatchback in October.  Toyota cut the production cost of the third-generation
Prius by 30 percent from the earlier version. When the company
started taking orders for the updated model, it slashed the
price of the entry-level version by 12 percent to compete with
Honda’s redesigned Insight hybrid.  For the fourth-generation Prius, Toyota aims to cut the
cost of the car’s hybrid system by half, Executive Vice
President Atsushi Niimi said Dec. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  