-- Sarah Palin Calls Obama State of the Union Speech `Half-Baked' on Facebook
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2011-01-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-27/palin-sees-wtf-in-obama-s-half-baked-state-of-the-union.html
Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin
has her own interpretation of the “winning the future” theme
of President Barack Obama’s State of the Union speech.  “He dubbed it a ‘Winning The Future’ speech, but the
title’s acronym seemed more accurate than much of the content,”
Palin wrote in a lengthy post on her  Facebook page .  WTF is an obscene abbreviation that has been popularized in
text messaging.  Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee,
focused her response on attacking the Obama administration’s
economic policies. She also cited frustration with the projected
$1.5 trillion U.S. budget deficit, 9.4 percent unemployment rate
and high number of home foreclosures.  “Americans are growing impatient with a White House that
still just doesn’t get it,” she wrote.  Palin, 46, who has hinted at a possible presidential
campaign in 2012, dissected the infrastructure, education and
renewable energy programs announced in the president’s speech.
She called the proposals “half-baked ideas” and “recycled
rhetoric.”  Echoing language used by other Republicans following the
president’s nationally televised address Jan. 25 before a joint
session of Congress, Palin said Obama’s discussion of making
“investments” in those areas was code for “increased  government spending .”  ‘Real Message’  “Cut away the rhetoric and you’ll also see that the White
House’s real message on economic reform wasn’t one of
substantial spending cuts, but of tax increases,” she wrote.
“When the President talks about simplifying the  tax code , he’s
made it clear that he’s not looking to cut your taxes; he’s
looking for additional  tax revenue  from you.”  Another Republican who has been considering a 2012
presidential campaign, Representative Mike Pence of Indiana,
said yesterday that he had decided against making the race.  “In the choice between seeking national office and serving
Indiana in some capacity, we choose Indiana,” Pence, 51, said
in a letter being sent to supporters, according to the
 Indianapolis Star . “We will not seek the Republican nomination
for president in 2012.”  Pence’s letter left open the possibility he would attempt
to succeed  Indiana  Governor Mitch Daniels, a Republican who is
prohibited by law from seeking a third term and who also has
been mentioned as a presidential contender.  PAC Account  Palin entered 2011 with $1.3 million in her political
action committee’s bank account, Federal Election Commission
filings show.  Palin raised $3.6 million last year for the PAC and
contributed $463,500 from the fund to candidates during last
year’s midterm election campaign. Since creating the fundraising
committee in January 2009, she has reported $5.7 million in
donations, including $3.8 million in amounts of under $200
apiece.  The PAC’s website last fall showed gun cross-hairs over the
districts of several Democratic lawmakers, including
Representative Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona, who was among 13
wounded Jan. 8 in a Tucson,  Arizona , shooting spree that also
killed six people. Palin has been criticized for the cross-hairs
and for some of her rhetoric.  The  Young America’s Foundation , a conservative youth
organization, announced yesterday that Palin would give the
keynote address at a celebration honoring the 100th anniversary
of former President  Ronald Reagan ’s birthday.  According to the foundation’s press release, Palin will
“reflect on the seminal speech by President Reagan, ‘Time for
Choosing,’” during her Feb. 4 remarks at the Reagan Ranch
Center in  Santa Barbara ,  California .  Former Vice President  Dick Cheney  will address the group
the next day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at   or
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  