-- Prada Plans Hong Kong Share Sale With Rising China Luxury Demand
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2011-01-28T09:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-27/prada-said-to-plan-to-sell-shares-to-public-in-offering-in-hong-kong.html
Prada SpA, the Italian fashion house
known for its triangular logo, said it will start the process
for selling shares in an initial public offering in Hong Kong,
as rising incomes in China spur demand for  luxury goods .  Prada’s board approved the appointment of  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA ,  UniCredit SpA , Credit Agricole SA’s CLSA and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . as joint coordinators and book runners for a sale of
shares to financial institutions, it said in a statement
yesterday. Prada would be the first Italian company to list in
Hong Kong, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Milan-based maker of Miu Miu bags and Church’s and Car
Shoe footwear follows European companies including  L’Occitane
International SA  in seeking to tap investors in Hong Kong, as
they seek access to financial markets to help fund opening
stores in emerging markets. A record HK$384.4 billion ($49
billion) was raised in IPOs excluding overallotments last year.  “We believe luxury goods will be the fastest growing
consumer category in  China ,” said Aaron Fischer, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at CLSA Ltd. “This will increase the focus on the
luxury goods market by investors over the next few months and
may result in a re-rating of some of the Asian listed names.”  Luxury demand in Greater China may rise by 20 percent to 25
percent over the next 10 years, according to CLSA.  China Consumers  Prada, which is controlled by Chief Executive Officer
Patrizio Bertelli, his wife Miuccia Prada and her family, had a
51 percent increase in nine-month sales in  Asia , excluding
Japan. The number of middle-income and affluent consumers in
China will almost triple to 415 million in 10 years, the Boston
Consulting Group Inc. said in November.  Prada’s global expansion has led to “significant growth”
in sales and profit, Bertelli said in the statement.
“Strengthened by these results and confident in the future
development of the group, we can now face the coming challenges
with serenity and seize the best opportunities offered by the
international capital markets.”  Asia excluding Japan is the biggest and fastest-growing
region for  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA , the world’s
largest luxury-goods manufacturer. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA,
world’s largest jewelry maker, said Jan. 17 that fiscal third-
quarter sales rose 57 percent in the Asia-Pacific region.  Milan Listing?  Prada, which postponed plans to list in 2008 because of
adverse market conditions, would have a valuation of at least
7.5 billion euros ($10.3 billion) based on current estimates if
it sold shares in Hong Kong, compared with between 5 billion
euros and 6 billion euros in Milan, a person familiar said last
week. Prada may seek to accommodate Italian investors by selling
some shares in Milan, the person said.  “It’s the right time to do it,” said  Armando Branchini ,
vice-president of Milan-based consulting firm Intercorporate.
“Asian investors will consider the decision to list in  Hong
Kong  as a kind of recognition of, and tribute to, the importance
of the region.”  A company spokesman declined to comment on whether Prada
would also sell stock in Milan, or any other exchange. Officials
for Borsa Italiana SpA didn’t have an immediate comment.  Prada may post sales of almost 2 billion euros in the
fiscal year ending Jan. 31, while earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization will be close to 500
million euros, people familiar with the matter said this month.
Yesterday’s statement gave no financial details and didn’t say
how much the company will seek to raise in a sale.  Prada’s debt was 485 million euros at the end of 2009, the
company said in March. Prada said in September that it had
improved its net financial position. Parent company Prada
Holding BV also has debt, which hasn’t been disclosed.  Glencore, L’Occitane  L’Occitane listed in Hong Kong in May, raising about $700
million. Its shares gained 4.4 percent to HK$21.25 at the 4 p.m.
close today, extending a 41 percent advance from its IPO price
of HK$15.08.  Glencore International AG, the world’s largest commodities
trader, plans to raise about $2 billion to $2.5 billion in Hong
Kong as part of a $10 billion IPO in the Chinese city and  London , people familiar with the matter said.  Prada, which was founded by head designer  Miuccia Prada ’s
grandfather Mario Prada in 1913, still operates its first outlet
in Milan’s 19th-century Galleria shopping arcade.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;  Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 