-- Renault Told Spying Suspect Tenenbaum to `Keep the Money,' His Lawyer Says
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2011-01-28T11:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-27/renault-told-spying-suspect-tenenbaum-to-keep-the-money-his-lawyer-says.html
  Renault SA  told one of three
executives accused of selling company secrets to go quietly and
“keep the money,” his lawyer said. The French carmaker denied
making the offer.  Christian Husson, Renault’s legal director, said Matthieu
Tenenbaum could resign and escape punishment during a meeting on
Jan. 3, according to attorney Thibault de Montbrial. “He didn’t
even understand what the proposal meant,” De Montbrial said by
telephone yesterday.  Caroline de Gezelle, a Renault spokeswoman, said Husson had
made no such suggestion. Tenenbaum “had the choice to resign
but not to keep the money,” she said by phone.  Renault said on Jan. 5 it suspended three executives
without pay after an ethics probe. Tenenbaum and the two other
managers, upstream development chief Michel Balthazard and his
deputy Bertrand Rochette, have denied selling electric-car
secrets, contested their subsequent dismissals and filed
criminal defamation claims.  French Industry Minister Eric Besson said Jan. 13 that
Renault had kept the government in the dark about the alleged
leaks until they were reported by the French media. The carmaker
filed espionage charges against persons unknown with Paris
prosecutors the same day.  Renault’s internal probe found that offshore accounts in
their names had received payments traced to Chinese companies, a
French official said Jan. 12.  China  rejected the allegations as
“baseless and irresponsible.”  ‘Keep the Money’  Unlike most western automakers, Renault, based in the Paris
suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt, has no manufacturing capacity in
China and has said it is seeking an opportunity to make its
first Chinese factory investment with a local partner.  Renault said Tenenbaum could “keep the money” he was
accused of receiving without telling him that he was suspected
of spying, according to De Montbrial.  Lawyers for Balthazard and Rochette declined to comment on
whether they had received similar offers during disciplinary
interviews.  “Renault’s handling of this affair shows that it hadn’t
planned for it to go public,” said Thibault du Manoir de Juaye,
a Paris-based lawyer specialized in industrial espionage.
“Companies don’t like cases like this to come out because
they’re generally bad for their reputations.”  Renault confirmed the suspension of the three executives
earlier this month before dismissing them. In an interview with
Le Journal du Dimanche published over the weekend, Chief
Executive officer  Carlos Ghosn  said he decided in late December
to take the disciplinary action and alert legal authorities
“without delay.”  Renault added 2.5 cents, or 0.1 percent, to 49.45 euros as
of 12:52 p.m. in Paris. The stock has gained 14 percent this
year after climbing 20 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  