-- Mandela Hospital Stay for Second Day No Reason for Alarm, Motlanthe Says
-- B y   V e r n o n   W e s s e l s ,   G o r d o n   B e l l   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2011-01-28T05:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-27/s-africa-s-motlanthe-says-no-need-to-panic-over-mandela.html
  South Africa ’s Deputy President
Kgalema Motlanthe said there is “no need to panic” over the
health of  Nelson Mandela , the country’s first black president,
who spent a second night in hospital while undergoing tests.  “There has been mounting concern about the health of the
former President Nelson Mandela,” Motlanthe said in a statement
on SAPA-PR wire today. “These tests are necessary to provide
optimal health care. Medically there is no need to panic.”
Mandela, 92, has had respiratory complaints in the past, he
said.  Mandela, who was jailed by the apartheid government for 27
years and released in 1990, checked into the  Netcare Milpark
Hospital  in Johannesburg for “routine tests,” his foundation
said in an e-mailed statement two days ago. The foundation
hasn’t commented since and queries left on the mobile phones of
officials at the organization have not been answered. Police
have boosted security at the hospital and at his Johannesburg
house.  Motlanthe is scheduled to hold a press conference at
Milpark at 12:30 p.m. today to discuss Mandela’s health.  “People have flooded to the hospital and to his house,”
police spokesman Vish Naidoo said in an interview from
Johannesburg yesterday. “We are concerned about potential
threats and risks so we had to step up security. We will review
on a constant basis whether this needs to be further increased.”  Armed Struggle  Mandela, who lives in the affluent Houghton suburb, was
imprisoned for plotting an armed struggle against South Africa’s
whites-only government. His release paved the way for the end of
white-minority rule and he became president in 1994 after the  African National Congress  won the country’s first all-race
elections. He stepped down after one term in 1999.  The former president is being treated for a lung-related
infection, possibly pneumonia, the Johannesburg-based Star
reported today, without citing anyone. Earlier this week the
newspaper reported that Michael Plit, a lung specialist, saw
Mandela on Jan. 26. He didn’t give further details and his
receptionist said yesterday he wasn’t taking calls from
reporters when contacted by Bloomberg.  Journalists are gathered outside the hospital where no one
is allowed in without verifying the name of the patient they are
visiting. Police have also barricaded an area spreading 100
meters (328 feet) from Mandela’s home, Naidoo said.  Stream of Visitors  Visitors, including his current wife Graca Machel, streamed
into the hospital throughout the day yesterday. Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, Mandela’s second wife, arrived at the
hospital as did Jeff Radebe, South Africa’s justice minister,
Richard Maponya, the developer of Soweto’s first major shopping
mall, and Albertina Sisulu, an anti-apartheid activist.  “He is in good health and good spirits,”  Zondwa Mandela ,
Nelson Mandela’s grandson, said in an interview from his mobile
phone. He said he visited his grandfather at the hospital on
Jan. 26.  “Nelson Mandela is still admitted at the Milpark Hospital
in Johannesburg, where he is undergoing a routine medical check-
up,” the ANC said in an e-mailed statement. “We call on all
South Africans to remain calm regarding the hospitalization of
Madiba and not press any panic buttons,” the party said, using
Mandela’s clan name.  Children at the McAuley House School, neighboring the
hospital, placed hand-painted posters on the school’s windows
and gates that read “get well soon Madiba.”  “President Mandela is comfortable and well looked after by
a good team of medical specialists,” South African President  Jacob Zuma  said in a statement on his website. “The doctors also
need to be allowed to do their work without undue pressure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordon Bell in Johannesburg at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net .
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at   rhamade@bloomberg.net . 