-- Sanofi's Breast Cancer Drug Fails in Advanced Trial of Aggressive Tumors
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   M i c h e l l e   C o r t e z
-- 2011-01-28T14:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-27/sanofi-says-bsi-201-didn-t-meet-phase-3-pre-specified-criteria.html
  Sanofi-Aventis SA , the French
drugmaker trying to take over Genzyme Corp. of the U.S., fell
the most in six months after saying one of its most promising
experimental drugs failed in a key study in breast cancer.  Sanofi’s BSI-201, obtained with the June 2009 purchase of
San Francisco-based BiPar Sciences Inc., didn’t lengthen overall
survival or slow the disease in women with a certain type an
aggressive, hard-to-treat tumor, Sanofi said in a statement
yesterday. The outcome was surprising because results from an
earlier-stage trial had been “spectacular,” said Eric Le Berrigaud, an analyst at  Raymond James  in Paris.  “We are stunned,” he wrote in a report to clients today.
“Who would have thought that this would happen? This failure is
very bad news for the pharma industry and especially Sanofi-
Aventis. It is becoming urgent to complete the Genzyme deal.”  Chief Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher has touted BSI-201
and Sanofi’s expanding oncology program as key to transforming
the company. Viehbacher needs new products as some of Sanofi’s
best-selling medicines, including the blood thinners Plavix and
Lovenox, are losing patent protection. The failure may pressure
Sanofi to raise its $18.5 billion hostile bid for Genzyme, said
Michael Leacock, an analyst at Royal Bank of  Scotland  in  London .  Sanofi fell 1.80 euros, or 3.5 percent, to 49.37 euros at
3:10 p.m. in Paris trading. The shares lost as much as 5.2
percent, the steepest intraday drop since July 23. The stock has
lost 1.5 percent in the past year including reinvested
dividends, compared with a 6.9 percent return for the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  ‘Increased Risk’  “Investors may see an increased risk of overpaying for
Genzyme,” Leacock, who recommends buying Sanofi shares, wrote
in a note to clients today. Viehbacher said Jan. 11 he planned
to remain “disciplined” and not to overpay for acquisitions.  Paris-based Sanofi in October began a tender offer to buy
Genzyme, the world’s largest maker of drugs for rare genetic
diseases, for $69 a share. Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Genzyme had spurned the offer as too low. The companies have
begun negotiation and have made some progress but there are
still “some gaps on how we value the business,” Viehbacher
said in a Jan. 26 interview.  Sanofi and Genzyme are discussing a so-called contingent
value right, or potential additional payments tied to the
performance of Genzyme’s experimental multiple sclerosis drug
Lemtrada. The offer for Genzyme, which was already extended
twice, is now set to expire Feb. 15.  Sales Forecast    Seamus Fernandez , an analyst for Leerink Swann LLC, had
been forecasting sales of 900 million euros ($1.2 billion) in
2016 for the drug, which is also known as iniparib. He’s
removing those from his forecasts “pending a full presentation
of the clinical data,” the Boston-based analyst wrote in a
report today. The drug is also in final studies for  lung cancer .  This “is a clear setback” for Sanofi, according to  Tim Anderson  and  Jack Scannell  of Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., who
have a “market perform” rating on the stock. The experimental
drug “has been one of the few, tangible, high-visibility late-
stage products in the company’s pipeline and this new
uncertainty is likely to weigh on sentiment,” they wrote in a
note to clients.  Sanofi purchased BiPar, a company with 18 employees, for
$500 million in April 2009. Six weeks later, researchers
presented study results that showed BSI-210 prolonged survival
in women with aggressive  breast cancer  by 3.5 months, to 9.2
months, when added to chemotherapy.  Viehbacher’s Setbacks  The failure of BSI-201 is the latest of a series of
setbacks for Viehbacher, who took the helm of Sanofi in December
2008.  The 440-million-euro acquisition of Indian vaccine maker
Shantha Biotechnics Ltd. in 2009 failed to live up to analyst
forecasts after manufacturing woes wiped out $340 million of
sales. The heart drug Multaq, which in 2009 became the first
major Sanofi treatment to be approved in the U.S. in seven
years, is under scrutiny after having been linked to liver
complications. European regulators said last week they would
review the product.  BSI-201 is one of the most advanced drugs in a new family
of medicines known as  parp inhibitors . Most cancer drugs work by
blasting DNA in the malignant cells with chemotherapy or
radiation. The malignant cells can fight back by using parp
enzymes to fix damaged strands of DNA within tumors. The new
medicines are designed to block the enzymes, helping standard
treatments to kill the cancer.  519 Patients  The study, involving 519 patients from across the U.S., is
the first from the final phase of testing generally required to
win approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The
women were given standard chemotherapy, plus BSI-201 or a
placebo.  The drug didn’t meet the goal of slowing the cancer or
helping women live longer, Sanofi said. There were some benefits
seen in women who had failed to be helped by prior treatment,
and the medicine didn’t appear to worsen the side effects from
the chemotherapy, the company said.  All the patients had metastatic triple-negative breast
cancer, tumors that aren’t fueled by the hormones estrogen or
progesterone or the HER2 protein. Since many breast cancer
treatments target the hormones or HER2, women with triple-
negative cancer are difficult to treat and have worse results
than those with other types of breast tumors.  ‘Important Findings’  Breast cancer is the  most common  solid tumor in women,
striking 207,000 American women in 2010 and killing nearly
40,000, according to the  American Cancer Society . From 15
percent to 20 percent of patients have triple-negative cancer,
which is more likely to strike younger women, studies show.  “While this trial did not meet its primary goal, we
believe that the improvement in overall survival and
progression-free survival in patients in the second- and third-
line setting are important findings,” Debasish Roychowdhury,
head of Sanofi’s oncology unit, said. “Sanofi-Aventis remains
committed to improving outcomes for patient with triple negative
breast cancer, where there is high unmet medical need.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  