-- Senate Leaders Agree to Speed Debate, Streamline Jobs Needing Confirming
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2011-01-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-27/senate-leaders-agree-to-speed-debate-streamline-jobs-needing-confirmation.html
Leaders of the  U.S. Senate  have
agreed to speed the chamber’s pace of work by abolishing some
delaying tactics and removing about 400 federal jobs from those
requiring a confirmation vote.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, also
said that they have reached an informal agreement to curtail use
of the filibuster -- the threat of endless debate -- to block
the Senate from bringing measures to the floor.  The agreement doesn’t limit use of the filibuster to stymie
a final vote on legislation or a confirmation.  “The Senate should function as the founders intended it to
function and the country needs it to function, not simply as
slowly as the rules will allow it to function,” Reid said
yesterday on the Senate floor, with McConnell at his side.  Their agreement averted a partisan showdown over proposals
by some Democrats to permanently change rules to blunt use of
the filibuster. Such changes are opposed by Republicans, who
gained six seats in the November elections and now hold 47 seats
in the 100-member chamber. The Senate rejected three Democratic
proposals yesterday, with each failing to gain the 67 votes
needed to pass.  Leaders of both parties defended the filibuster, which can
let the minority party block the majority from enacting its
agenda. Reid said the maneuver is “in our DNA” and helps
distinguish the Senate from the House, where the majority party
can easily pass legislation over opposition.  ‘Central to the Senate’  “It’s always been central to the Senate, and it always
will be,” Reid said.  The Senate approved two elements of the leaders’ agreement
addressing other stalling tactics that have frustrated lawmakers
in both parties.  One proposal ends the practice of secret “holds” that let
a single senator block any measure without disclosing who is
doing so or even whether such a procedure is being used.
Advanced by Senators Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, and
Chuck Grassley, an  Iowa  Republican, it was approved, 92-4.  Another change, adopted 81-15, will bar the minority party
from slowing debate on legislation by forcing Senate clerks to
read the full text of proposed amendments.  The changes will “help make the Congress better able to
deal with significant issues that come before us,” said
Republican Senator Lamar Alexander of  Tennessee , an architect of
the deal.  60 Votes  Both sides acknowledged that the informal deal to reduce
use of filibusters will be broken on the more controversial
measures. Filibusters force the leadership to get 60 votes to
advance or pass legislation, rather than a simple majority of 51.  “On certain bills, both sides will use every procedural
tactic,” said Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the
chamber’s third-ranking Democrat.  Opponents of a measure can try to block it twice -- when it
is being brought to the floor for debate and then before a final
vote on passage. Democrats said Republicans too frequently
employed that tactic on routine legislation. Republicans said
they did that because Reid wouldn’t let them offer amendments
and doing that was their only form of protest.  Reid agreed to be more open to Republican amendments if the
minority party pledged to use the filibuster less often to block
bills from being brought to the floor.  Senate Committees  The plan to speed up confirmations will be put to a vote
later, after Senate committees weigh in. It would reduce by
about one-third the number of executive-branch jobs needing
Senate confirmation, Reid said. The White House and
congressional Democrats have complained that Republicans have
tied up too many appointments.  Reid said most of the jobs that would no longer be subject
to confirmation would be appointments to part-time boards and
commissions. Top positions at Cabinet-level departments wouldn’t
be affected, nor would judicial nominations.  Senate Republicans have used secret holds and filibuster
threats to delay many of President Barack Obama’s nominees. At
the end of the last congressional session in December, 43 of his
pending nominations expired without action.  That included 19 judicial appointees -- 13 of whom were
approved unanimously by the Senate Judiciary Committee -- and
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Peter Diamond , whom Obama
nominated to the Federal Reserve Board in April.  Recess Appointment  Obama on Dec. 29 installed one of his long-pending nominees,
James Cole, as deputy U.S. attorney general, appointing him
during a congressional recess to bypass Republican opposition.  Among the defeated proposals to limit filibusters, one by  Tom Harkin  of Iowa would have reduced the number of votes needed
to end a filibuster the longer a measure was under debate. Under
his proposal, if several efforts to shut off debate failed,
eventually the bill could be moved forward with a simple
majority of 51 votes.  Senators  Jeff Merkley  of  Oregon  and Tom Udall of  New Mexico 
proposed requiring anyone who used the delaying tool to occupy
the Senate floor and talk. Leaders of the minority party now
merely have to say they intend to filibuster, which leads the
majority to schedule a vote on whether to halt it. If that vote
fails, consideration of the measure generally ends.  Merkley said he doubts that the Senate will work any faster
without bigger changes to the filibuster rules.  “We need to change the rules to make this institution
fulfill its constitutional responsibilities,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  