-- Senator Who Shot Cap-and-Trade Bill in Ad Named to Energy Panel
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2011-01-28T05:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-27/senator-who-shot-cap-and-trade-bill-in-ad-named-to-u-s-energy-panel.html
The Senate committee with primary
jurisdiction for U.S. energy policy added  Joe Manchin , the
former West Virginia governor who won office after using
climate-change legislation for target practice in a 2010 ad.  Manchin will join the Senate Energy and Natural Resources
Committee, according to an e-mail yesterday from Bill Wicker, a
committee spokesman. The panel, led by Senator Jeff Bingaman of  New Mexico , plans to draft legislation that sets guidelines for
how much electricity comes from sources such as coal, natural
gas, wind and sun.  West Virginia is the second-biggest coal-producing state
after  Wyoming , according to Energy Department data. In his
 commercial , Manchin loads a rifle and fires a single bullet into
a copy of the cap-and-trade bill backed by President  Barack Obama  that would penalize utilities for using coal.  “Manchin getting a seat on the energy committee is just an
indication of the role that coal will play in the energy debate
in the coming months,” said  Tyson Slocum , energy director of
the Washington-based advocacy group Public Citizen. “Coal is
going to have its say in all of this.”  Democrats will have 12 members on the panel compared with
10 Republicans, down from a 13-10 advantage before the party
lost seats on Nov. 2. Senator Mary Landrieu, a Louisiana
Democrat, often joins Republicans on issues that affect oil and
gas producers, said  Michael McKenna , a Republican oil-industry
lobbyist and president of MWR Strategies Inc. in  Washington .  ‘More Difficult’  “It's not just a matter that the votes are going to be more
difficult for Senator Bingaman, everything is going to be more
difficult,” McKenna said in an interview. “The addition of
Manchin is going to complicate the regular, routine running of
the committee.”    West Virginia  produced 137 million tons of coal in 2009,
and Wyoming mined 431 million tons, according to the Energy
Department.  “Manchin’s been extremely protective of the coal industry
because of its obvious economic impact to his state,” Luke
Popovich, a spokesman for the National Mining Association in
Washington, said in an interview.  Two Democrats, Al Franken of  Minnesota  and Christopher Coons of  Delaware , also are joining the committee.  The Energy Committee may consider legislation this year
that would establish national targets for using renewable
sources to generate electricity. In his State of the Union
address on Jan. 25, Obama said the U.S. should produce 80
percent of its power from clean sources by 2035 and that nuclear
energy, clean coal, and natural gas can complement solar and
wind power to meet the target.  ‘Commonsense, Balanced’  “I will fight for a commonsense, balanced energy approach
that recognizes West Virginia’s critical role in our nation’s
economy now and into the future,” Manchin said yesterday in a
statement. “Every state must do its part to use its resources -
- whether it’s clean coal and natural gas or wind and solar --
to make energy independence a reality.”  McKenna said Manchin’s apppointment is part of the
Democrat’s strategy for the 2012 election.  “He’s a great guy but West Virginia is a Republican
state,” McKenna said. “The Democrats only hope for holding it
is for Manchin to have multiple opportunities to vote against
the president.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 