-- Spain Approves Pension Bill in Bid to Woo Investors
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2011-01-28T15:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-27/spain-tries-to-quell-investors-by-raising-retirement-age-after-bank-plan.html
The Spanish government agreed to
raise the  retirement age  in a renewed bid to restore investor
confidence after a 20 billion-euro ($27 billion) plan to shore
up savings banks failed to tame the nation’s borrowing costs.  Four months after Spanish workers disrupted transport and
broadcasts in a general strike aimed partly at the  pension plan ,
the Cabinet approved a bill to increase the retirement age to 67
from 65, Deputy Prime Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba told
reporters in Madrid today. The government, unions and employers
reached an agreement earlier today after late-night talks on the
bill and changes to wage-bargaining.    Spain ’s worst economic crisis in six decades and a jobless
rate of 20 percent have quickened the pace at which the social-
security system is eating into its surplus. Europe’s debt crisis
has also added urgency to the overhaul that comes as lenders
including  La Caixa , the nation’s second-biggest savings bank,
reorganize in response to new  capital requirements .  “It’s a pass,” Antonio Garcia Pascual, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London , said of the pension bill. “It’s not
outstanding but it has the three key ingredients.”  Spanish Labor Minister Valeriano Gomez told reporters today
that the pension bill doesn’t aim to cut retirement benefits and
its objective is to “stabilize” spending. The government will
revise the parameters of the pension system every five years
after 2027 to reflect changes in  life expectancy , according to a
statement from his ministry.  Bond Yields  Ten-year Spanish bonds yielded 230 basis points more than
comparable German securities today, up from 229 yesterday and
209 on Jan. 24 when Finance Minister Elena Salgado unveiled the
savings-bank plan. The plan features a minimum core-capital
requirement of 8 percent that rises to as much as 10 percent for
lenders without private investors.  Responding to the new rules, La Caixa said late yesterday
it will hand its banking business over to its listed investment
unit  Criteria CaixaCorp SA , and turn that company into a
commercial bank. The shares rose 21 percent at 1 p.m. in Madrid.  The government, fighting to slash the euro region’s third-
largest budget deficit to 6 percent of gross domestic product
this year from around 9 percent in 2010, had pledged to approve
the pension bill today. Salgado said talks with unions can
continue as the legislation goes through parliament, where the
minority government needs support from smaller parties.  Lawmaker Approval  “It’s a law so it has to go through parliament and in that
process it will be possible of course to make small changes,”
Salgado said in an interview on TVE on Jan. 26.  The bill allows workers who have paid into the social-
security system for 38 1/2 years to retire at 65 years with a
full pension rather than the new limit of 67 years, Gomez said.
Gomez said the government will also increase the number of
working years used to calculate pension benefits to 25 years
from 15 years, doing so gradually from 2013 to 2023.  “They didn’t change much to get the unions on board, but
the starting point could have been more ambitious,” economist
Garcia Pascual said. “The transition is a bit too generous, but
pension costs will spike years from now” and for the moment
they are “below those of Germany and  France .”  Spain spent 95.7 billion euros on contributions-based
pensions in 2010, almost 10 percent of GDP. Forty percent of
this year’s spending will go to social security as the nation
grapples with  Europe ’s highest jobless rate, according to the
budget law. The  unemployment rate  rose to 20.3 percent in the
fourth-quarter, the National Statistics Institute said today.  Pension Benefits  Last year, the difference between employed workers’ social-
security contributions and contribution-based pension benefits
turned negative, according to data from the Labor Ministry, even
as the system posted a surplus of 0.2 percent of GDP, helped by
interest earned on a 60 billion-euro reserve fund.  That shortfall emerged five years earlier than expected due
to job losses and demographic factors, said Javier Diaz-Gimenez,
a professor at  IESE  Business School who has written on pensions.
Without changes, the debt needed to fund the pension deficit
would amount to 190 percent of GDP by 2050, he estimates.  “Small, gradual changes in the Spanish system do not solve
the problem,” he said by phone. “It’ll be disappointing
because they won’t announce a fundamental reform.”  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, who once
pledged to keep raising pensions, has made a policy U-turn since
the Greek debt crisis prompted a surge in borrowing costs.
Voters and traditional union allies have been alienated by cuts
to public wages and social benefits, changes to labor rules and
measures to support banks. The agreement reached with unions was
the first since the Sept. 29 general strike.  The Socialists, facing regional and local elections in May,
would win 18 percent of the vote if general elections were held
now, with the opposition  People’s Party  on 49 percent, according
to a poll in El Mundo on Jan. 2. Zapatero will announce this
fall that he won’t seek re-election in March 2012, La Vanguardia
newspaper reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  