-- Abacus Bank, 19 People Charged in Fannie Mae Loan Fraud
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-05-31T21:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/abacus-bank-19-individuals-charged-in-fannie-mae-mortgage-fraud.html
Abacus Federal Savings Bank and 19
individuals were charged with mortgage fraud and accused of
selling hundreds of millions of dollars in fraudulent loans to
 Fannie Mae (FNMA) , Manhattan  District Attorney  Cyrus Vance Jr. said.  “The lessons of the financial crisis are still being
learned,” Vance said today at a press conference. He said
senior employees at the bank trained others to falsify loan
documents so unqualified borrowers could qualify for loans and
the bank could earn fees, commissions and other funds by selling
the loans to Fannie Mae.  Abacus, which primarily serves the Chinese-American
community, pleaded not guilty before Judge Renee A. White in
state court in Manhattan today. The bank is “disappointed” to
learn of the indictment as it discovered and investigated the
issue more than two years ago, fired some employees and reported
the results to  law enforcement , its regulator and  Fannie Mae ,
the bank said today in a statement.  Vance’s office is “overreaching” in accusing Abacus
“when many other banks that contributed to the national
economic crisis remain untouched,” it said.  The district attorney called the bank’s help “too little,
too late” at the press conference.  Loans covered by the indictment were made to 4,500
borrowers and were among about $1 billion in loans that the bank
sold to Fannie Mae, which then unwittingly packaged them as
mortgage-backed securities and sold them to investors, Vance
said. “Taxpayers are left holding the bag,” for this kind of
crime, he added.  Eight Admit Guilt  The charges cover activities from May 2005 to February 2010
and follow a 2 1/2-year investigation, according to prosecutors.
Eight Abacus employees have admitted their guilt in the first
indictment of a bank in  Manhattan  since 1991, Vance said.  Fannie Mae, the government-controlled mortgage buyer and
the biggest backer of U.S. home loans, buys and holds mortgages
and issues mortgage-backed securities. It was bailed out and
seized along with  Freddie Mac  during the credit crunch.  Vance said the majority of the loans involved in the case
are still “performing” and borrowers haven’t defaulted.  The district attorney said his office is working with bank
regulators to make sure deposited funds are secured. The
investigation is continuing, he said.  “The alleged misconduct that occurred is not tolerated by
our bank’s policies and ethical standards,” James Haggerty, an
Abacus spokesman, said in the statement. “Unlike many other
banks, Abacus Federal Savings did not participate in generating
subprime loans or other risky lending practices.”  A 184-count indictment includes charges of  mortgage fraud ,
 securities fraud , grand larceny, conspiracy and falsifying
business records.  Accused Bankers  Yiu Wah Wong, the bank’s former chief credit officer and
underwriting supervisor, was among the defendants arraigned
today. Wong, who is free on $100,000 in bail, reported directly
to the chief executive officer and was the most senior bank
employee charged. Wai Hung “Raymond” Tam, the loan origination
supervisor, was also charged and is free on $100,000 bail.
Prosecutors were denied a request to increase bail for the two
today, and were told they could keep the defendants’ passports
to guard against flight risk.  According to the indictment, incomes, assets and job titles
were inflated; software was manipulated; and false “gift
letters” were created to obscure the source of borrowers’ down
payments.  Managers, according to the complaint, encouraged loan
officers to make sure the falsified applications would be
believable in the eyes of the bank’s regulator, the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency, as well as Fannie Mae. Fannie
Mae’s own protocols to ensure loans met certain standards were
thwarted, prosecutors said.  Abacus, a full-service bank based in  New York , was founded
in 1984, according to its website. It operates seven branches in
New York,  New Jersey  and  Pennsylvania .  The case is The People of the State of New York v. Abacus
Federal Savings Bank, 2480-2012, New York State Supreme Court,
New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  