-- Acer, Toshiba to Take on IPads With Windows 8 Tablets
-- B y   I a n   K i n g ,   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-05-31T23:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/acer-toshiba-to-take-on-ipads-with-windows-8-tablets.html
Acer Inc.,  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Asustek
Computer Inc. (2357)  will unveil tablets running Microsoft Corp.’s
Windows 8 operating system next week, people with knowledge of
the matter said, challenging the dominance of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  Acer will display a tablet based on Microsoft’s new
software at the Computex show in Taipei, while Toshiba will show
a tablet and a notebook-type device, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the plans haven’t been made public.
Asustek will present tablets with detachable keyboards similar
to its current Transformer model, the people said.  The annual  Computex  show provides a forum for the computer
industry to tout its wares before the typical increase in
second-half demand. Computer makers allied with  Microsoft (MSFT)  will
use this year’s event to highlight a long-awaited response to
the iPad and machines that run Google Inc.’s Android operating
system, which together have 91 percent of the tablet market.  Windows 8 also will be the first version of the software
that will work on processors using  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  technology,
a type of chip made by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ,  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  and
Nvidia Corp. that dominates the phone industry. ARM-based chips,
manufactured by Samsung Electronics Co., power the iPad.  The use of ARM-based chips marks a snub for  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
which along with  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  has been the
exclusive provider of chips for Windows machines. Intel, which
has more than 80 percent of the PC-chip market, hasn’t been able
to parlay that dominance into market share in phones or tablets.  Asustek will demonstrate tablets based on an Nvidia ARM-
based chip called Tegra and another powered by an Intel chip,
the people said. The Tegra-based device, which is similar to the
one that will go on sale, will be displayed publicly, setting up
an opportunity for direct comparisons between a Windows computer
running on ARM and one using Intel technology.  Tablet Sales  The  Acer (2353)  tablet is built around an Intel chip, while
Toshiba is using Texas Instruments for its processors.  Microsoft plans to show off Asustek devices in a
presentation by Vice President Steven Guggenheimer at the show
on June 6, said one person familiar with the company’s plans.  The show provides the first airing of tablet hardware that
Microsoft intends to use to narrow Apple’s lead in the tablet
market. Sales of Windows PCs to consumers have slumped as buyers
opt for tablets, making it critical for Microsoft to offer a
compelling option in that category.  The tablet market is poised to grow 70 percent a year on
average through 2015, according to estimates from Evercore Group
LLC. Traditional notebooks will have an average annual growth
rate of 8 percent. Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook 
predicted in January and reiterated this week that tablets will
surpass PCs in terms of units sold.  Windows 8  The June 5-9 Taipei show will highlight a limited number of
ARM-based devices as Microsoft seeks to ensure that when Windows
8 is released later this year, the products will stand up to
comparisons with the iPad. The limited debut will be followed by
a second wave of computer and phone makers lined up for next
year, two of the people said.  Qualcomm, the world’s largest maker of mobile-phone chips,
will demonstrate a test device running Windows 8 based on its
Snapdragon processor, said a person familiar with its plans. The
company is committed to having customer devices in the market
when the new version of the software goes on sale, the person
said.  Spokesmen for Microsoft, Asustek, Acer,  Nvidia (NVDA) , Intel and
Texas Instruments declined to comment on their plans before
announcements and demonstrations planned for next week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  