-- Activist Chen Says China Local Authorities Trample Rights
-- B y   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-06-01T00:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/activist-chen-says-china-local-authorities-trample-rights.html
Chinese legal activist  Chen Guangcheng  said authorities in Shandong province continue to
retaliate against his relatives, highlighting the lawlessness of
official conduct at the local level.  “What I am most concerned about is the state of law in
China, which is very much being trampled, and more specifically
after I left my home in Shandong, the local officials there have
been retaliating against my family in a very frenzied way,”
Chen said in a talk yesterday at the  Council on Foreign
Relations  in New York.  Chen arrived in New York on May 19 after intense
negotiations between the U.S. and China over his fate. He was
interviewed yesterday by friend and supporter Jerome Cohen, a
law professor at  New York University  who arranged for Chen to
study law at the university and live with his wife and two
children in  Greenwich Village  in  Manhattan .  Chen said his brother, who returned to Shandong, is still
under “intense pressure” from officials, as are the friends
who helped him escape house arrest there. Chen’s nephew has been
detained and denied access to a lawyer after what Chen described
as an attack by thugs hired by local officials that left him
bleeding three hours later.  Chen said that while he was in Beijing, representatives of
the central government told him on several occasions that they
would investigate the treatment of his family.  “I still hope the central government will be able to live
up to this promise and investigate,” he said, speaking through
an interpreter.  Chen praised the Chinese government as making the right
decision in letting him come to the U.S., and deflected a
question from an audience member about the possibility he may
not be allowed to return to  China .  ‘Right Direction’  “The central government is letting me come to the U.S. to
study, that is unprecedented,” he said. “As long as they are
beginning to move in the right direction, we should affirm
that.”  He later said he is “very optimistic” that genuine
democracy will come to China in his lifetime, and perhaps much
sooner, as technology makes it more difficult for officials to
hide misdeeds.  “As the information age has developed so quickly, Chinese
society has gotten to the era where if you don’t want something
known, you’d better not do it,” he said. “Can you really do
cover-ups? No, that possibility is diminishing, so for officials
to ride on top of the constitution, that possibility is less and
less likely to be accepted by the people.”  Change of Plans  Chen, who is blind, was imprisoned for more than four years
after representing villagers who opposed forced abortions and
sterilizations, and was then held under house arrest without
charges until he escaped in late April to Beijing, where he took
refuge in the U.S. embassy.  Once Chen left the embassy, he rejected a deal he had
initially accepted to stay in China, causing a diplomatic
dilemma for the Obama administration and resulting in the
arrangement for him to accept a fellowship in the U.S.  Asked about his revised plans by an audience member
yesterday, Chen said he didn’t change his mind.  “After the central government guaranteed my personal
safety, after I left the U.S. embassy, I enjoyed those rights
that the government guaranteed, so one of those rights is the
freedom to travel into and out of China,” he said. “Now, you
feel I changed my mind, but I don’t feel I changed my mind. If I
had waited six months and said I want to go abroad to study, you
would have thought nothing of it.”  Studying English  Chen said he is studying English and plans to learn about
U.K. and American law to compare them with Chinese law, as well
as about laws on the rights of disabled people. He defended the
right of those outside China to intervene on human-rights
issues, comparing it to trying to stop a case of mistreatment in
a family.  “Let’s say either a husband or wife is abusing each other,
then perhaps you’ve gone outside the bounds of what is a family
norm,” he said. “Then outsiders do have a right to be
involved. If you are behaving inappropriately toward your own
citizens, your own people, I think international law should have
some constraining ability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dune Lawrence in  New York  at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  