-- Adidas’ Reebok Business in India Faces Fraud Investigation
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-05-31T10:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/adidas-reebok-business-in-india-faces-fraud-investigation-1-.html
Adidas AG (ADS) ’s  Reebok  business in  India 
will be investigated by the country’s anti-fraud agency for
suspected accounting irregularities, government officials said.  Adidas filed a criminal complaint on May 21 after saying
last month it had found flaws at the Indian arm of its Reebok
unit. Police are investigating two former Reebok India
executives after the company made allegations of fraudulent
practices worth as much as 8.7 billion rupees ($155 million),
one person involved in the inquiry said on May 23.  The  Serious Fraud Investigation Office  on May 29 was asked
to investigate the matter and submit a report within four or
five months, two government officials familiar with the matter
said today. They declined to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak publicly. Investigators may request more
information from Adidas’ headquarters in Herzogenaurach,
 Germany , if needed, one of the people said.  “We don’t comment on pending investigations,” said Katja Schreiber, a spokeswoman for Adidas. “We shall continue to
cooperate with the authorities in their investigation.”  Adidas shares gained 0.5 percent to 59.96 euros as of 11:41
a.m. in Frankfurt. The stock has risen 19 percent this year, the
second-best performance in Germany’s benchmark DAX Index.  Investor Concern  A quick investigation and trial may help rebuild investor
confidence after India slipped to 46th place, behind Grenada,
among the 183 nations ranked for ease of doing business in the
 World Bank ’s 2012  “ Doing Business Report .” It was 44th in
2011.  “Investors will be keeping an eye on the investigation and
on what would be the consequences for Reebok and other brands
there going forward,” said Mark Josefson, an analyst at Silvia
Quandt Research GmbH in  Frankfurt , Germany. “It’s good that
Adidas quantified what the costs will be. The investigation
speeds up the planned reorganization process within India for
the Adidas Group at large.”  Adidas estimated last month that irregularities at Reebok
India may cost as much as 125 million euros ($155 million).
Reebok India filed the criminal complaint on behalf of Adidas.
The parent company operates about 900 Reebok franchise stores
and about 700 Adidas licensed retailers in India.  The Economic Times newspaper reported earlier today the
Serious Fraud Investigation Office will investigate Reebok
India.  The probe is the second conducted by the agency in the past
16 months involving an overseas company. Citigroup Inc. was
investigated in January 2011 after a local employee illegally
siphoned off almost $66 million from investors.  The Serious Fraud Investigation Office was set up under the
Ministry of Corporate Affairs to detect and prosecute fraud. It
consists of experts on subjects including accounting, taxation,
law and capital markets, according to its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  