-- Aereo Defends Online TV Service as Networks Seek Shutdown
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-05-31T22:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/aereo-defends-online-tv-service-as-networks-seek-shutdown.html
Aereo Inc., the Barry Diller-backed
online television service that is trying to prevent a court-
ordered shutdown, told a judge it doesn’t violate copyrights
because it is only retransmitting over-the-air programming.  Aereo and the four biggest U.S. TV networks --  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox -- delivered closing arguments today in a two-day trial to
determine whether U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan will issue a
preliminary injunction that would halt the service.  “There is no question that the transmission to the Aereo
consumer is a private  performance,” David Hosp, a lawyer for
Aereo, told the judge at a hearing in  Manhattan . “They’re
asking you to extend copyright protection in a way Congress
never contemplated.”  The networks sued Aereo in March claiming that it wasn’t
authorized to capture their broadcast signals and retransmit
them to subscribers. Aereo, in transmitting programming to
subscribers’ Internet-connected televisions and mobile devices,
violated the law by engaging in a public performance of the
copyrighted works without a license, the networks said.  “It’s not a broadcasting medium,” Steven Fabrizio, a
lawyer for the networks, told the judge. “It’s an Internet
medium exclusively. Our clients have an opportunity to develop
that market with their own content for their benefit.”  ‘Not Imminent’  Aereo said that its subscribers can access a remotely
located antenna and digital video recorder to receive local TV
programming and play it back. The service was introduced in  New
York City  in March at a subscription price of $12 a month. The
networks knew about Aereo for about a year before they sued,
said Michael Elkin, a lawyer for the company.  “There’s a reason they didn’t bring a claim earlier,”
Elkin said in court. “The harms are not imminent. They’re
speculative and remote.”  The networks said in court that they might lose advertising
revenue if Aereo were to remain in business, because its
subscribers wouldn’t be measured for the ratings that determine
ad rates.  “What will happen is you won’t see Sunday Night Football
on free TV,” Bruce Keller, a lawyer for the networks, told the
judge. “It will all migrate to a pay-per-view program.”  Diller’s company,  IAC/Interactive Corp. (IACI) , led a
$20.5 million round of financing for Aereo, it was announced in
February. Diller is on the Aereo board.  The cases are American Broadcasting Cos. v. Aereo, 12-1540,
and WNET v. Aereo, 12-1543, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  