-- U.S. CFTC Considers Tighter Volcker Rule After JPMorgan Loss
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-05-31T18:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/after-jpmorgan-loss-u-s-regulator-ponders-tighter-volcker-rule.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is seeking input on whether to narrow exemptions in a
proposed proprietary-trading ban after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
announced at least $2 billion in losses on  credit derivatives .  CFTC staff members are hearing today from former Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. chairman  Sheila Bair ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
Managing Director Keith Bailey and  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Chief Risk
Officer for American equities Dan Rodriguez at a meeting in
Washington as they prepare to craft revisions to the so-called
Volcker rule. The main U.S. derivatives regulator is among five
agencies charged with implementing the Dodd-Frank Act measure.  “In adopting the Volcker rule, Congress prohibited banking
entities from proprietary trading while at the same time
permitting banking entities to engage in certain activities,
such as market-making and risk-mitigating hedging,” CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in his opening remarks. “One of the
challenges in finalizing this rule is achieving these multiple
objectives.”  The CFTC, along with the Federal Reserve, Securities and
Exchange Commission and FDIC have faced pressure to tighten the
Volcker rule since JPMorgan Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Jamie Dimon disclosed the trading loss on May 10.  The rule -- named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , who
championed the idea as an adviser to President  Barack Obama  --
is intended to reduce risky trading by banks with federally
insured deposits and access to the Fed’s discount window.
Participants in today’s CFTC discussion include advocates for a
stronger ban, such as  Simon Johnson , a Massachusetts Institute
of Technology professor and Bloomberg View columnist.  Planned Before Loss  The roundtable was planned before JPMorgan announced its
trading loss. JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  initially indicated they would send representatives but
later declined, according to a person familiar with the matter
who requested anonymity. The banks are members of the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association and International
Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc., which both sent
representatives to the meeting.  The three banks have urged regulators to delay and relax
parts of the rule. The 298-page proposal was released by five
regulators in October.  “For a lot of our clients we actually provide derivatives
especially now in the recent environment for protection on their
portfolio or providing risk-mitigating products for clients,”
Rodriguez said at the meeting. “In order to mitigate the
problems that can be caused by derivatives you need better
supervision.”  ‘Wake Up Call’  Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Tim Johnson , a South
Dakota Democrat, said May 22 that JPMorgan’s losses bolster the
case for the regulations included in the Dodd-Frank measure and
serves as a “wake up call for many opponents” of the law’s
provisions.  “All five of the regulators working on this are informed
by market events on a daily basis,” Gensler said today in a
Bloomberg Television interview before the meeting. “It is
appropriate to use these as learning moments.”  Bair, who pushed for strong restrictions while serving as
FDIC chairman, said regulators must ensure risk-taking is
separated from bankers’ pay.  “You don’t want compensation based on hedging profits
period,” Bair said. “They’re supposed to be hedging underlying
risk.”  Not For Profit  In an interview with Bloomberg TV, she added that “hedging
is not there to generate profits, it’s there to mitigate risk.
There are plenty of other ways the big corporations can make
money.”  Bair has “it exactly right,” Bart Chilton, a Democratic
member of the CFTC, said in an e-mail. “I think regulators do
what regulators all too often do: They over-thought Volcker. We
need some discretion, but we should lock down a few basics --
like ensuring that such discretion never permits the chance of
becoming a flawed fissure for the bankers to excavate into a
large loophole. We should also make very clear that we ban
compensation based on trading profits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  