-- Thai Stocks Seen Rebounding 19% by JPMorgan on Growth
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-05-31T04:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/thai-stocks-seen-rebounding-19-by-jpmorgan-on-growth.html
Thai  stocks  will rise 19 percent in
the next year after the first monthly loss since September
dragged valuations to a four-month low and the economy recovers
from last year’s floods, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  may climb as high as 1,350 in the
next 12 months, Sriyan Pietersz, the investment bank’s Bangkok-
based head of research for  Southeast Asia , said by phone
yesterday. The measure closed at 1,138.63 yesterday. Earnings
may grow 20 percent in 2013 from an estimated 15 percent this
year, he said. The SET traded at 11.4 times estimated profits in
the week ended May 25, the lowest level since February.  “Thai companies will be able to sustain their strong
earnings momentum in the second half, with an expansion in
private investment and consumption,” said Pietersz, who was
ranked No. 2 for Thai research by Institutional Investor
magazine last year. “Companies, especially banks, will
benefit.”  Thailand ’s industrial output rose for the first time in
eight months in April as more manufacturers returned to full
production after the worst floods in almost 70 years last year,
the government said on May 28. Gross domestic product
unexpectedly grew 0.3 percent from a year earlier in the three
months through March, after contracting 8.9 percent in the
previous quarter, the government said on May 21.  ‘Little Bump’  The SET Index lost 8.5 percent this month to yesterday on
concern the  European debt crisis  and a slowing Chinese economy
will curb global growth. The gauge dropped 1.2 percent to
1,124.64 at 11:02 a.m. in Bangkok.  Overseas investors sold a net $497 million baht of Thai
equities this month through May 29, poised for the first monthly
selloff since November, according to  data  from the Stock
Exchange of Thailand.  “Thai equities hit a little bump as the ongoing crisis in
 Europe  and problems in  China  trigger the sale of riskier assets
worldwide,” Chakrit Puechpan, head of domestic equity
department at  MFC Asset Management Pcl (MFC) , which oversees about $9
billion of assets, said by phone yesterday. “They will rally
again as economic fundamentals and corporate earnings are very
solid.”  Pietersz joins  Mark Mobius , chairman of  Franklin
Templeton ’s  Emerging Markets  Group, and Kasikorn Securities Co.
Ltd. in favoring Thai equities.  Buy Banks  Mobius, who oversees about $50 billion of assets, said last
month he is “overweight” Thai shares, while Kavee Chukitkasem,
an investment strategist at Kasikorn, predicted on April 27 the
 stock index  may rise to 1,350 in the third quarter.  Investors should buy shares of banks and property
companies, which may lead a rebound in the benchmark index as
loan growth accelerates and rising incomes increase demand for
residential property, Pietersz said. He recommended investors
avoid retailers and consumer-goods producers, as their
valuations are “overly stretched.”  The  SET Commerce Index (SETCOM)  has climbed 38 percent this year,
the largest gain among 27 industry groups, after advancing 40
percent in 2011. The gauge trades at 27.2 times estimated
earnings, more than double the multiple on the SET Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Political Tension  The SET Index has gained 9.7 percent this year on
speculation a surge in  government spending  after the floods
would bolster investment and consumption. The gauge  trades  at
11.5 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index’s 9.6 times.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra pledged in January to
spend 350 billion baht ($11 billion) on infrastructure, while
the  Bank of Thailand  cut  interest rates  by half a percentage
point since November to spur economic growth.  Investors should use any decline in share prices prompted
by recent political tension as a chance to buy Thai stocks,
according to Pietersz.  “I see more political noise, but not a risk,” he said.  Thai opponents of exiled former leader Thaksin Shinawatra
rallied outside Parliament in Bangkok overnight to thwart
efforts to exonerate him of a corruption conviction, in one of
the biggest challenges to his sister’s nine-month-old
government.  About 7,000 members of The  People’s Alliance  for Democracy,
whose yellow-shirted royalist members helped remove two Thaksin-
linked governments, would gather outside Parliament House,
organizer Tul Sitthisomwong said by phone yesterday.  The protest risks reigniting a feud that has led to violent
street protests claiming more than 100 lives since his ouster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  