-- Ai Weiwei’s Underground Pavilion to Open in London Park
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-05-31T15:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/ai-weiwei-s-underground-pavilion-to-open-in-london-s-hyde-park.html
An underground pavilion co-designed
by the dissident Chinese artist Ai Weiwei was presented to the
media outside  London ’s  Serpentine Gallery  today.  Ai, who was detained for almost three months in China last
year, created the pavilion in Hyde Park with architects Herzog &
de Meuron, who worked with him on the 2008 Beijing National
Stadium, (“the Bird’s Nest.”) The temporary structure has been
purchased by billionaire Lakshmi Mittal -- chairman of the
world’s biggest steelmaker ArcelorMittal -- for his collection.  Twelfth of its kind, the 2012 pavilion is a circular, cork-
lined lounge sunken into the Serpentine lawn, with steps and
bleachers carved into it, and stools shaped like champagne corks
scattered everywhere. A water-filled circular roof rises like a
floating basin 1.4 meters (4 feet) above the lawn, supported by
12 columns of varying shapes that represent the 12 pavilions.  “From the beginning, we were on the same track: not doing
another object on top of the lawn,” said co-designer Pierre de Meuron in an interview inside the pavilion. “What can you do
after 12 years?”  “We are in a beautiful park, and you don’t want here an
object that’s crying, ’Look, I’m the pavilion of 2012,’” he
said.  Video Message  Earlier, during the press presentation, Ai -- who is banned
from travel outside  China  -- sent a videoed message.  “We tried to study what happened before, and we also asked
(ourselves) why we need to do a new design for this event,”
said the bearded Ai, wearing a baggy light-blue shirt. “We are
focused on the memory and the past and what has happened.”  Previous pavilion architects include Pritzker Prize winners
Peter Zumthor (2011),  Jean Nouvel  (2010),  Zaha Hadid  (2000),
 Frank Gehry  (2008) and  Rem Koolhaas  (2006).  Every year since 2000, the directors of Serpentine, a
former tearoom, ask an architect or artist to put up a
provisional building for its summer fundraising party, as well
as for visitor use and day and evening talks and events.  Muse highlights include: Jason Harper on  autos ,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  technology , Manuela Hoelterhoff on  Mugzie .  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 