-- AIG to Pay Record $16.8 Million To End Pennsylvania Probe
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-31T21:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/aig-to-pay-record-16-8-million-to-resolve-pennsylvania-probe.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, will pay more than $16.8 million to
resolve a Pennsylvania regulator’s probe into the shortchanging
of workers’ compensation pools.  The penalty for the New York-based company is the largest
in the history of the Pennsylvania Insurance Department, which
led a multistate probe, the regulator said today in a statement.  The sum is part of a $146.5 million settlement AIG reached
with watchdogs across the U.S. in 2010. The probe was an
offshoot of a 2005  lawsuit  from then-New York Attorney General
 Eliot Spitzer , who said AIG, under former Chief Executive
Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, underreported premiums in
calculating its obligations to state pools.  AIG “underestimated their liabilities under inter-company
policyholder guarantees,”  Pennsylvania  Insurance Commissioner
 Michael Consedine  said in the statement. “At this time, AIG’s
current management has shown its commitment to a culture of
regulatory compliance.”  In most states, companies that sell workers’ compensation
must fund pools that serve as insurers of last resort to cover
injuries at employers that pose unattractive risks.  The payment to Pennsylvania includes $8.6 million in fines,
$3.6 million to the Workers’ Compensation Security Fund, and
$4.6 million in premium taxes and assessments. The $146.5
million total is composed of $100 million in fines and $46.5
million in taxes and assessments. AIG has been led by CEO  Robert Benmosche  since 2009.  Final Resolution  The accord focuses on conduct from 1975 and 1996, “the
same period that was the subject of the 2006 regulatory
settlement between AIG and the State of  New York ,” the insurer
said in an e-mailed statement. “We are pleased that with this
settlement now becoming final this week, we have resolved all
remaining regulatory issues related to AIG’s workers
compensation premium reporting.”  The insurer agreed last year to pay $450 million to rivals
who sued the company and said they were stuck with excessive
workers’ compensation obligations when AIG shirked its
responsibilities to the pools  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  