-- AIG’s Hancock Says Bailout Punctured Insurer’s Hubris
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-31T20:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/aig-s-hancock-says-bailout-punctured-insurer-s-hubris.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
once the world’s largest insurer, benefited from the humility
that came with a U.S. bailout in 2008, said the chief executive
officer of the property-casualty unit.  “The crisis had a silver lining,” said  Peter Hancock , CEO
of the Chartis division, at a conference sponsored by Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. today in New York. “It punctured the hubris
that happens in large companies that are leaders in their
industry, where people think they have all the answers, and it
made people open to new ways of doing things.”  Hancock has been increasing the focus on  emerging markets 
and reducing business in segments that require the company to
hold large amounts of capital as he seeks to improve returns. A
former chief financial officer at a predecessor to JPMorgan
Chase & Co., he was hired in 2010 to oversee risk at  New York- 
based AIG and assigned last year to run Chartis after the unit
disclosed a $4.2 billion charge because of inadequate reserves.  “It’s a business that I’d say has been managed to growth
over the last 30 years,” Hancock said of Chartis. “That’s
given us an edge but I think that at some point we oversaturated
certain markets, and so my direction to the team is very much to
recalibrate our objectives from volume to value.”  The Treasury Department took a 92 percent stake in AIG as
part of a U.S. bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion. The
department has cut its  stake  to about 61 percent through  three
share sales , and AIG repaid a Federal Reserve credit line that
was part of the rescue.  “There was a moment where people felt that the government
intervention was money going down a black hole,” Hancock said.
“We had to demonstrate to the world that there really was a
valuable franchise to be preserved.”  AIG has advanced 26 percent this year in  New York  trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  