-- Alabama County Agrees to Extend Sewer System Cash Split
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-05-31T17:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/alabama-county-agrees-to-extend-sewer-system-cash-split.html
Alabama ’s bankrupt Jefferson County
agreed to transfer $5.5 million to bondholders, extending a
temporary deal to split cash from its insolvent sewer system
with creditors while awaiting a ruling from a federal judge.  The agreement with  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , trustee
for bondholders owed more than $3 billion, allows the county to
begin several sewer upgrades using cash it holds.  The agreement will last until June 29, or until U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett makes a final decision on how
to split sewer revenue between bondholders and construction
projects the county says are needed to improve the system.  Bondholders, bond insurers and the trustee are battling the
county over how to divide money left over after normal operating
expenses for the sewer system are paid.  The bondholders say any leftover money is theirs. The
county says it has the flexibility under the U.S.  Bankruptcy
Code  to use the cash to fund system improvements, including
changes required by federal clean-water laws.  In April, the two sides spent three days in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Birmingham, Alabama, debating the definition of
“necessary operating expenses.” The phrase is used in the
bankruptcy code and governs how to split revenue between
bondholders and public agencies that borrow money to build
assets such as water-treatment plants.  Sewer Bonds  Jefferson County entered the largest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy in November after local and state officials and
creditors failed to implement an agreement to cut the county’s
sewer debt by about $1 billion. The county owes creditors about
$4.2 billion, including more than $3 billion in bonds related to
the sewer system, according to court records.  Bennett said he will sign a written order later today after
other sewer creditors have a chance to join the temporary deal.
The judge hasn’t said when he will rule on a permanent split of
the sewer revenue.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736, U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  -- Editors: Stephen Farr, Mary Romano  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  