-- Talbots Accepts Lower Sycamore Bid in $369 Million Takeover
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-05-31T21:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/talbots-to-be-bought-by-sycamore-partners-for-369-million-1-.html
Talbots Inc. (TLB) , the women’s clothing
retailer trying to reverse falling sales, agreed to be bought by
private-equity firm Sycamore Partners for a reduced price of
$369 million, including debt.  Stockholders will get $2.75 a share, the Hingham,
Massachusetts-based retailer said today in a statement. The
offer is lower than Sycamore’s previous offer of $3.05 a share
and more than more than double yesterday’s closing price of
$1.29 a share.  Talbots accepted the lower bid after last week saying it
had failed to reach an agreement with Sycamore during 2 1/2
weeks of exclusive talks.  The retailer , established in 1947, has
closed 90 locations since March 2011, posted five consecutive
years of sinking sales and has yet to name a replacement for
retiring Chief Executive Officer Trudy Sullivan.  “It’s a near-desperation move,” said Buzz Zaino, a New
York-based money manager at Royce & Associates LLC, which had a
2.1 percent  stake  in Talbots at the end of the first quarter.
“They lost their focus and it’s been hard for them to get it
back.”  Falling Sales  The new offer by Sycamore for the 90.1 percent of Talbots
that the private-equity firm doesn’t already own values the
company’s equity at about $174 million. That equals 0.17 times
its reported sales, the lowest revenue multiple ever paid for a
U.S. apparel retailer in deals worth at least $100 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Talbots  rose  89 percent to $2.44 at the close in  New York .  Sullivan, who is stepping down in June, became CEO of
Talbots in August 2007, after Liz Claiborne Inc. eliminated her
position as president of that company. Since then, Talbots
shares had tumbled 94 percent through the close of regular
trading yesterday, as Sullivan sought to revamp the company’s
strategy in the midst of the worst U.S. financial crisis since
the Great Depression.  In that same  period , the Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing
Index rallied 29 percent, while the  S&P 500  lost 8.4 percent.  Talbots introduced cocktail dresses and stilettos to appeal
to younger shoppers and in doing so alienated some of its
traditional customers, who tend to be women over 35.  ‘Difficult Journey’  “Part of it is the macro environment, and part of it is
when you essentially fire your old customer and try to hire a
new customer, that takes a lot of time and a lot of money,”
said  Jennifer Davis , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets in New
York. “It’s a lot easier to do that as a private company, not a
public company.”  Sycamore probably has enough retail contacts to bring in a
successful new executive to lead Talbots, Davis said.  The company’s May 25 announcement that it would explore
other strategic alternatives sent shares to their lowest level
since December 2008. Talbots said at the time it remained open
to pursuing a transaction with New York-based Sycamore at $3.05
a share if the firm obtained financing commitments and there was
an assurance the deal will close.  The retailer rejected a $3-a-share bid from Sycamore in
December as “substantially” undervaluing the company, and then
said in January that it had agreed to share confidential
information with the  private-equity  firm tied to a possible
business combination.  ‘Deteriorating Situation’  Talbots was probably counting on its spring line of
products to negotiate a better offer, and the results didn’t pan
out, Royce & Associates’s Zaino said. Comparable-store sales,
including catalogs and the Internet, declined 3.8 percent in the
first quarter ended April 28.  “I’m sure there’s a point in time where suppliers get a
little nervous and the banks get a little nervous, so the sale
looks like a resolution in a deteriorating situation as opposed
to an improving situation,” Zaino said.  Sycamore disclosed in August 2011 it had purchased a 9.9
percent stake in Talbots. The private-equity firm is led by
founder Stefan Kaluzny, a former managing director at  Golden
Gate  Capital, where he was also chairman of Express Inc., the
clothing chain that targets 20- to 30-year-old men and women.  “Talbots has significant potential and remains a premier,
storied brand,” Kaluzny wrote in a letter to the company’s
board of directors in December. “The steps necessary to
maximize the value of Talbots’ assets will require more
aggressive action than has been taken to date and which would be
extremely difficult to execute while remaining a public
company.”  Baby Boomers  The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter,
Talbots said. Perella Weinberg Partners LP is the retailer’s
financial adviser with White & Case LLP as its legal counsel.
Sycamore Partners retained Bank of America Corp. and Winston &
Strawn and the law offices of Gary M. Holihan for legal counsel.  Talbots says its customers are typically educated  baby
boomers , with about 70 percent having a college education, and
the majority professionally employed, according to its  website .  “Historically, if you asked customers, ‘Who shops at
Talbots?’ they would say ‘my mother,’ even if it was a 50-year-
old woman,” Lazard’s Davis said. “It had this image of being a
brand for older people,” with updated, classic, tailored
apparel, she said.  The company has downsized in recent years. As of Jan. 28,
Talbots  had  1,105 full-time employees compared with 3,850 five
years ago, and  operated  516 stores at the end of the first
quarter from more than 1,000 in the year ended Feb. 2, 2008.
Under Sullivan’s tenure, the company closed its men’s, kids and
U.K. businesses, sold its J. Jill brand business and introduced
an “upscale outlet” concept.  Private Equity  Private-equity firm Golden Gate acquired J. Jill for $75
million in 2009, underscoring Kaluzny’s familiarity with
Talbots, Pamela Quintiliano, a New York-based analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co., wrote in a note today.  Sullivan held 507,400 shares of Talbots as of April 4, or
0.72 percent of the company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A $1.4 million payout from that may add to her $5
million cash severance payment and related benefits, regulatory
filings show.  “As a private company, we will have greater freedom to
focus on longer-term investments and opportunities, while
providing you with rewarding careers, excellent benefits and
challenging roles,” Sullivan wrote in a letter to Talbots
associates today, disclosed in a regulatory filing. “During
this time, the most important thing you can do is to continue
performing your role at the highest level and delivering
outstanding value to our customers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  