-- Manulife Said in Second Round of ING Asia Insurance Bidding
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-05-31T04:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/manulife-said-to-make-second-round-of-ing-asia-insurance-bidding.html
Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  and  AIA
Group Ltd. (1299)  are among companies that were invited to make second-
round bids for  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s Asian insurance business, said
four people with knowledge of the matter.  Korea  Life Insurance Co. and KB Life Insurance Co. were
also put on the so-called shortlist of companies that can make
binding offers, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the process is confidential.  ING, under European Union orders to divest its  insurance
and asset management operations  before the end of 2013 as a
condition of state aid, is seeking at least $7 billion for the
business, people with knowledge of the matter said in March. The
company, led by Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen, opted to
sell the Asian units separately from the European as the
region’s debt crisis damped prospects for divestments there.  The sale may result in cash proceeds for ING of about 4.6
billion euros ($5.7 billion) after payment of debt, according to
an estimate from Rabobank International analyst Cor Kluis on May
10.  The Korea Economic Daily earlier today reported Korea Life
and  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560) , the owner of KB Life, were on the
bidding shortlist. Korea Life is interested in ING’s Southeast
Asian business, one person said.  Patricia Chua , a spokeswoman at ING in Hong Kong, declined
to comment, as did spokesmen for the bidders.  Asset Management  The Dutch company is also selling its asset management
business in Asia and has invited potential buyers, including
Manulife, to make second-round bids, three people with knowledge
of the matter said this week. The business is worth about 500
million euros, according to an April 19 estimate by Hans Pluijgers, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux.  ING’s Asia insurance operations are spread across the
region, with larger businesses in Korea,  Japan ,  Malaysia  and
 Hong Kong , Credit Suisse Group AG analysts Arjan van Veen and
Frances Feng wrote in a Feb. 14 report. AIA is “best-placed to
absorb” ING’s insurance operations outside of Japan and Korea.  An AIA acquisition of ING’s non-Japan business “would lead
to a significant geographical footprint expansion,”
strengthening AIA’s businesses in weak  areas  such as Korea and
solidifying its positions where it is already strong, such as
Hong Kong and Malaysia, they added. It could also improve its
bancassurance networks and skill set, they said.  The potential acquisition would lift AIA’s market share in
Hong Kong to No. 1 from second place, and catapult its Korea
ranking to fourth from 10th, the Hong Kong-based analysts said.  AIA Upgrade  Credit Suisse yesterday upgraded AIA’s investment rating to
outperform. It cited among the reasons increased merger and
acquisition “potential and probability” with ING selling its
Asia assets and a few other smaller potential acquisition
targets in the region.  Still, an acquisition of the ING business could risk
increasing AIA’s share of profit from mature markets and making
it more sensitive to interest rate changes and high guaranteed
returns for policyholders, the analysts said in February. Both
could lower the valuation of the company which is currently
valued as a growth stock in the medium term, they added.  AIA would consider acquisitions that “if it makes sense,
if we find it adds value to shareholders, if it’s financially
viable,” CEO  Mark Tucker  said upon announcing the company’s
annual results in February.  The company’s free surplus, a measure of excess capital
over what is required to be held by regulators, surged 19
percent to $5.9 billion in the year to Nov. 30.  Asia Opportunities  Asia and  wealth management  are the two biggest
opportunities for Manulife to expand, CEO Donald Guloien said in
a telephone interview earlier this month. The Canadian insurer,
which has operated in Asia for 115 years, has bolstered
operations there through joint ventures, acquisitions and
expanding its teams of agents and brokers.  Few companies are as well-positioned as Canada’s  largest 
insurer to benefit from Asia’s doubling of its middle-class
population over the next decade, Guloien said. Manulife’s growth
potential in  Asia  is about twice the pace of gross domestic
product expansion in the area, he added.  Profit from Asia of the Toronto-based company reached C$1.1
billion ($1.07 billion) in the first quarter as a result of
record insurance sales, higher premiums and deposits, more than
triple the amount a year earlier.  Expansion  Asia represented one-third of its so-called operating
results last year, which includes operating income, revenue, and
premiums and deposits. Five years ago, Asia accounted for about
20 percent of those results, Chief Financial Officer Michael Bell said earlier this month.  Manulife entered Asia in 1897 when it issued a policy in
Shanghai, and later expanded to Hong Kong, Japan, the
 Philippines ,  Thailand , Malaysia, Singapore,  Indonesia ,  Taiwan 
and  Vietnam , according to its website.  The insurer has more than 50,000 agents selling products
including  life insurance , health insurance and wealth management
in Asia, and has distribution through more than 100 bank
partnerships and 500 dealers and brokers.  AIA’s Hong Kong-traded shares have risen 4 percent this
year,  outperforming  the 0.5 percent increase in the Hang Seng
Finance Index, which tracks 12 Hong Kong-listed financial
institutions. Manulife’s shares traded little changed in Toronto
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  