-- Apple-Samsung Copy Case Hinges on Cheech, Chong Test
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-05-31T17:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/apple-samsung-trials-seen-solving-copycat-spat-ceos-couldn-t.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s claim that  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  copied the design of the iPhone may hinge on
what a U.S. trade judge today described as the “Cheech and
Chong test.”  “Does it look like it, feel like it, smell like it?” U.S.
International Trade Commission Judge Thomas Pender said at the
beginning of Apple’s patent-infringement trial against Samsung,
referring to a routine in which the comedy duo identified dog
feces.  Apple contends Samsung’s phones and Galaxy Tab tablet
computer copy designs on the look and front face of the iPhone,
and they also infringe patents related to the user interface and
headset plugs. The Cupertino, California-based iPhone maker is
asking the ITC to block imports of Samsung products that violate
Apple’s patent rights.  “Not content to copy the overall design and interface,
Samsung has copied the smallest detail of the iPhone,” Apple
lawyer Harold McElhinny of Morrison & Foerster told the judge in
opening arguments today in Washington. “Samsung copied our
original and iconic design.”  Samsung is Apple’s biggest adversary in the iPhone maker’s
challenge to the growth of devices that run on Google Inc.’s
Android operating system. Together, Samsung and Apple made more
than 49 percent of all smartphones sold worldwide in the first
quarter, with Samsung edging out Apple in that period for the
title of world’s biggest manufacturer of the devices, research
analyst Gartner Inc.  said  May 16.  Jobs’ Warning  When the late Apple founder  Steve Jobs  unveiled the iPhone
in 2007, he warned rivals that it was protected by more than 200
patents, McElhinny said. Apple’s inventions have been displayed
in museum shows and even been the subject of a book, he said.  “Samsung cannot overcome the originality of Apple’s
design,” McElhinny said.  Samsung, which has its own patent-infringement claims
against Apple that are scheduled to come to another trial at the
trade agency next week, contends it came up with its own ideas
and designs through decades and more than $3.5 billion spent on
research.  “Samsung has been in this industry, building and
innovating to the point where Apple could enter the market,”
Samsung lawyer Charles Verhoeven of  Quinn Emanuel  told the
judge. “We are anything but an also-ran trying to copy Apple’s
technology.”  The rectangular shape with a wide touchscreen was just one
of many designs developed by Samsung and other smartphone makers
before the iPhone, he said.  “Samsung is also known for its designs,” Verhoeven said.
“We’ve been recognized worldwide and compared favorably” to
Apple.  Seeking Break  Pender is scheduled to hear testimony through June 6 and
release his findings Oct. 5. ITC Judge James Gildea, who is
scheduled to hear Samsung’s case beginning June 4 through June
15, is expected to release his determination on Sept. 14.
Apple’s infringement claims against Samsung over other patents
is set for a July trial in federal court in San Jose,
 California .  Meetings over the past two years, most recently ones
involving Apple Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook and Samsung CEO
Choi Gee Sung, have failed to resolve a standoff that spans 10
countries on four continents. Each side is looking in court for
some break, such as an order blocking the rival’s products from
the U.S., that would give them an advantage in settlement talks.  “This about brinkmanship and bargaining position,” said
Rodney Sweetland, a patent lawyer with Duane Morris in
 Washington  who specializes in ITC cases. “They both have too
much to lose and too much to gain to not make a settlement.”  First Trial  Apple’s claim against Suwon, South Korea-based involves six
patents including ones covering inventions related to touch-
screen devices, headset detection and the look and shape of the
iPhone. Apple is seeking to block imports of Samsung’s Galaxy
Tab tablet computer and phones including the Nexus, Captivate,
Indulge, Infuse and Sidekick.  Samsung’s claims against Apple involve five patents
including one that allows users to view documents in a touch-
sensitive screen and two covering industry standards for ways to
boost high-speed data transmission. It targets the iPad, iPod
touch and different versions of the iPhone including the most
recent iPhone 4S.  Continuing Escalation  “It looks like neither company can find common ground,
even though  Tim Cook  said he’s not really interested in
litigation,” said  Will Stofega , an analyst at IDC in
Framingham,  Massachusetts .  In an April 24 conference call with analysts, Cook said he
would prefer to reach a settlement, as long as it doesn’t put
Apple at a disadvantage.  “We just want people to invent their own stuff,” Cook
said. “And so if we could get some kind of arrangement where we
could be assured that’s the case and a fair settlement on the
stuff that’s occurred, I would highly prefer to settle versus
battle.”  Samsung, which makes more than a dozen smartphone models,
shipped  42.2 million  smartphones in the first quarter, while
Apple sold 35.1 million iPhones, IDC reported May 1. Smartphone
shipments worldwide surged 43 percent.  Smartphone Profits  The growth is adding to the bottom line for both companies.
Samsung,  Asia ’s biggest consumer-electronics maker, said first-
quarter profit jumped 81 percent to 5.05 trillion won ($4.5
billion) after earnings at the mobile business almost tripled.
Chinese demand for the iPhone helped Apple boost its fiscal
second-quarter profit 94 percent to $11.6 billion.  Even as they battle in courts around the world, Apple
remains Samsung’s biggest  client . Apple accounted for 7.64
percent of  Samsung’s revenue , buying chips and displays,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Apple has been able to force Samsung to delay the release
or alter its Galaxy products in some countries, including
 Australia  and the Netherlands. There’s more at stake in the
U.S., because the trade agency -- which will issue final
decisions in both cases in January and February -- has the
authority to stop products at the U.S. border.  In the meantime, Apple is pursuing an order to block sales
of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 while the  San Jose  case is pending.  Battles like those between the smartphone makers aren’t
unusual -- similar contests occurred when the sewing machine and
the telegraph were new, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
Director David Kappos told a House Judiciary subcommittee on May
21. He was asked whether the Apple and Samsung fight will stifle
innovation.  “I do not believe that it’s a sign that there’s anything
at all wrong with the innovation environment in the U.S.”
Kappos said. “It’s a byproduct of a very healthy overall
innovation environment. These things happen; they sort
themselves out over time. What’s going on here is just a natural
ebb and flow of technology development.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  