-- Tardy CO2 Plans by Italy, Greece, Spain Delay EU Permit Decision
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-05-31T07:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/tardy-co2-plans-by-italy-greece-spain-delay-eu-permit-decision.html
Delayed submissions from  Italy ,
 Greece  and  Spain  are holding up the European Union decision on
the number of carbon allowances that companies in the bloc’s
emissions market will get for free as of 2013, according to an
EU official.  The EU in April warned six countries that it may take them
to court for failing to present on time their national plans on
allocating free carbon permits, giving the governments two
months to react. Three of the nations -- Germany, Belgium and
 Bulgaria  -- have submitted the overdue measures, said the
official, who declined to be named, citing policy.  The European Commission, the EU regulatory arm, needs to
assess the so-called national implementation measures from all
27 member states to calculate the final number of free
allowances to be given to more than 12,000 facilities in the
next period of the bloc’s carbon cap-and-trade program that runs
from 2013 to 2020. The original deadline for submitting national
plans expired on Sept. 30, 2011.  The EU, which has given away the majority of emissions
allowances since it started the program in 2005, will sell the
majority of them in the next stage of its emissions trading
system, or the ETS. The bloc will auction around 60 percent of
the total number of permits in 2013, according to the commission
estimates, and the proportion will increase in coming years.  The allocation of a dwindling supply of free permits will
be done through carbon-efficiency benchmarks approved last year,
based on the average performance of the top 10 percent of
installations in 2007 and 2008.  National Bids  To ensure that the total number of free allowances to be
handed out to companies in the ETS doesn’t exceed the maximum
amount allowed under the EU law, the commission may apply a
reduction factor across industries in the program after
assessing national bids.  In the third phase of the ETS, western European utilities
will no longer get free allocations, while eastern European
power plants will have to buy 30 percent of their permits at
auctions. That figure rises to 100 percent by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  