-- Argentine Grandfather Refused $10 Bill Under Fernandez Controls
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-31T18:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/argentine-grandfather-refused-10-bill-under-fernandez-controls.html
Argentine lawyer Julio Cesar Duran
wanted to exchange a pocketful of pesos for $10 to give as a
gift to his two grandsons. With the government clamping down on
dollar purchases, the tax agency rejected his request.  President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s tightening
oversight of the foreign  currency market  is hitting
international companies as well as average Argentines, who have
traditionally bought dollars to protect their savings in a
country with a history of devaluations and hyperinflation. In
the unregulated market, the dollar costs about 40 percent more
than the official rate of 4.47 pesos, a record gap.  “I wanted to buy $10, not $10 million, and the tax agency
says I can’t,” Duran, 59, said in a telephone interview from
Mar del Plata, a seaside town in  Buenos Aires province , where he
tried to buy the dollars at an exchange house last week. “I
didn’t intend to do something that would destabilize the
country’s finances.”  Duran hired a lawyer after his transaction was rejected,
saying the government’s measures infringe his property rights
and that the tax agency doesn’t have the authority to forbid
exchange purchases. A federal judge is reviewing his request
that the restrictions be lifted.  “This measure is manifestly arbitrary,” said Gregorio
Badeni, a constitutional lawyer based in Buenos Aires. “These
decisions on limits to the foreign exchange markets can only be
ordered by the central bank or by the federal government and it
has to be reasonable.”  Press officials at the national tax agency didn’t respond
to a message left by Bloomberg News.  Reserves-for-Debt  With  Argentina  blocked from international credit markets
since its 2001 default on $95 billion of bonds, Fernandez counts
on the country’s  trade surplus  to bring dollars into the economy
and boost  central bank reserves , which she then uses to pay
debt. The government plans on tapping $5.7 billion of reserves
this year to pay debt, according to the budget.  The purchase of dollars by individuals and companies drains
central bank reserves. With $21.5 billion being pulled  out of
 South America ’s second-biggest economy last year, up from $11.4
billion in 2010, Fernandez decided to staunch the losses
following her October re-election.  Money Laundering  Within days of winning a second four-year term, Fernandez
ordered mining companies including  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  to keep export
revenue in the country, told insurance companies to repatriate
investments and gave the tax agency the mandate for limiting
dollar sales. The government said the moves were needed to limit
 money laundering  and terrorist financing. In April, Fernandez
banned Argentines from using their ATM cards to withdraw dollars
abroad from peso-denominated accounts.  Yet with Argentina’s nine-year economic expansion slowing
and inflation accelerating to 23 percent, the fastest in the
world after  Venezuela , the demand for dollars this year in both
the legal and unregulated market has picked up.  “You can’t ask people to have faith in the peso with such
fast inflation,” said Orlando Ferreres, a former deputy economy
minister who now runs Orlando Ferreres & Asociados research
company in  Buenos Aires . “The government is trying to protect
the dollars it has because it sees a more complicated landscape
by the end of the year and next year.”  Fernandez’s currency controls made the so-called blue-chip
rate for the dollar, set by price gaps between Argentine
securities in local and global markets, soar a record 30 percent
in the past three months, signaling currency outflows are
picking up. The central bank’s international reserves fell to
$47 billion yesterday, the lowest since March 7.  ‘Obsessed’ With Dollars  Cabinet Chief Juan Manuel Abal Medina yesterday told
Congress that Argentines are  “obsessed”  with dollars and that
the government is seeking to “de-dollarize” the economy.  “It’s a cultural problem,” Abal Medina said. “It’s very
important that Argentines be more normal and use dollars only
for the trade exchange as it happens in other places.”  On May 17, tax agency officials caught a man offering 
dollars to passers-by in downtown Buenos Aires and arranged for
his arrest by police. The crime is punishable by as many as eight 
years in prison, the agency said in a statement.  Argentina’s history shows the peso can be a risky
investment. In late 2001, then-President Fernando de la Rua
limited bank withdrawals, a measure that led to violent protests
and a string of five presidents in two weeks. His eventual
successor,  Eduardo Duhalde , converted U.S. dollar deposits into
pesos after the country abandoned a decade-long 1-to-1 peg with
the dollar and the  exchange rate  plummeted to more than 4-to-1.  A decade earlier, hyperinflation led the government of
President Carlos Menem to abandon the austral and create the
peso peg.  When Duran’s request was rejected, he tried to buy a single
euro, and then just one dollar, but those transactions were also
rejected.  “I pay taxes, I have my house, I make a living from my
profession,” said Duran. “I think it’s unfair and I can’t
tolerate this ridiculousness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  