-- Marriott to Buy Gaylord’s Hotel Brand for $210 Million
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-05-31T20:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/marriott-to-buy-gaylord-s-hotel-brand-for-210-million.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. lodging chain, agreed to buy
 Gaylord (GET)  Entertainment Co.’s hotel brand and management company
for $210 million to expand its convention business.  The transaction will add four hotels and about 7,800 rooms
to Marriott’s management portfolio, the Bethesda, Maryland-based
company said in a statement today. Gaylord, based in Nashville,
 Tennessee , will continue to own the properties and will
reorganize as a real estate investment trust.  Gaylord, owner of the  Grand Ole Opry  and Ryman Auditorium
country-music attractions, has been reviewing its structure and
aims to cut its tax bill with the REIT status. The company’s
hotel and convention centers, which include the flagship Gaylord
Opryland in Nashville, have about 2 million square feet (186,000
square meters) of meeting space.  “Marriott will be able to capture even a greater share of
the major event market,” Marriott Chief Executive Officer  Arne Sorenson  said in the statement. “As a new REIT owner, Gaylord
Entertainment should benefit from improved hotel profitability
associated with Marriott’s ability to generate substantial cost
savings and incremental demand.”  Gaylord  rose  10 percent at the close in  New York  to $37.95,
a four-year high. Marriott gained 1.1 percent to $38.71.  Management Contract  Marriott’s hotels with convention businesses include the
Orlando World Center Marriott in  Florida , the San Diego Marriott
Marquis & Marina, and the New York Marriott Marquis in
Manhattan’s Times Square. The company will operate the Gaylord
hotels under management agreements with an initial term of 35
years. It expects the deal to increase earnings by 2 cents a
share next year.  “This is a more accretive transaction than purchasing back
our own stock,” Sorenson said during a call with investors.  The deal, expected to be completed in October, is
conditioned on Gaylord’s shareholders approving the REIT
conversion. REITs can avoid paying corporate taxes in the U.S.
when they distribute at least 90 percent of their net income as
dividends.  Gaylord expects annualized cost savings from the
transactions, net of management fees, to be as much as $40
million, the company said in a separate statement. It will
continue to own its other attractions as taxable REIT units.  More Efficient  “The REIT structure allows us to benefit from a more
efficient tax structure, and establish a platform to grow our
distinct asset base through organic growth of our existing
portfolio and, in time, through strategic acquisitions,” Colin Reed, Gaylord’s chairman and CEO, said in the statement.  Gaylord, which traces its roots to an Oklahoma publishing
and media company founded by Edward King Gaylord in 1903,
generated 93 percent of its revenue last year from its hotel
operations, according to the company’s annual regulatory filing.  The company posted losses for two years starting in 2009 as
bookings and room rates fell amid the recession, and as a May
2010 flood caused severe damage to its Nashville properties,
including the Opry. Even as the company returned to profit in
2011, the stock lost about a third of its value.  The company’s  shareholders  include  Mario Gabelli ’s  Gamco
Investors Inc. (GBL) , which led a campaign to let a poison pill
guarding against unwanted takeovers expire. Shareholders voted
in favor of the plan earlier this month.  Billionaire  John Paulson  took a 2.8 percent stake in the
company in the first quarter, making him Gaylord’s eighth-
biggest shareholder, according to a regulatory disclosure filed
in mid-May by his investment firm Paulson & Co., which manages
about $24 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  