-- Martin Marietta Fails to Get Vulcan Bid Ruling Overturned
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-05-31T18:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/martin-marietta-fails-to-get-vulcan-bid-ruling-overturned.html
Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)  failed
to persuade the  Delaware  Supreme Court to throw out a ruling
barring the gravel producer from proceeding with a hostile
takeover bid for rival Vulcan Materials Co.  After an hour-long hearing today, the state’s highest court
concluded that a judge properly found that Raleigh, North
Carolina-based Martin Marietta can’t bid for Birmingham,
Alabama-based Vulcan for four months because it violated an
agreement between the two companies.  Martin Marietta officials wanted the high court to throw
out the trial judge’s ruling so they could ask Vulcan
 shareholders  at tomorrow’s annual meeting to support four board
candidates likely to support a buyout. Martin Marietta sought to
push the meeting back to July 16, lawyers said in court today.  “We are asking that Vulcan shareholders have the chance to
elect four independent  directors  tomorrow,” Robert E. Zimet, an
attorney for Martin Marietta, told the judges.  Martin Marietta  fell  72 cents, or more than 1 percent, to
$66.97 at 2:07 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading. Vulcan dropped 56 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $34.46.
Vulcan’s shares rose 1.7 percent immediately after the  Supreme
Court  ruled.  “We will abide by the ruling of the Delaware courts,”
Jamie Moser, a Martin Marietta spokeswoman, said today in a
telephone interview.  ‘Careful Consideration’  “We appreciate the Delaware Supreme Court’s careful
consideration of this matter and are pleased with the court’s
ruling,” Meghan Stafford, a Vulcan spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Martin Marietta in December offered to exchange half a
share for each share of Vulcan in a $4.7 billion deal that would
have created the world’s largest producer of sand, gravel and
crushed stone.  The companies sued each other, and Martin Marietta withdrew
the offer this month after the ruling by Delaware Chancery Court
Judge Leo Strine.  Don James , chairman of Vulcan, testified during a trial
this year that in 2010 he envisioned a friendly “merger of
equals.” The talks foundered before Martin Marietta Chief
Executive Officer Ward Nye disclosed the hostile bid.  Company Arguments  Theodore N. Mirvis, a lawyer for Vulcan, told the appeals
court that Strine properly found that Martin Marietta officials
weren’t authorized by the terms of a confidentiality agreement
to announce their hostile bid. Martin Marietta’s lawyers argued
the disclosure was “legally required” by securities statutes.  Martin Marietta executives contend the confidentiality
agreement entitled them to use the internal Vulcan information
obtained under the pact for any kind of buyout, either hostile
or otherwise.  “We don’t believe the non-disclosure agreement limited
 Martin Marietta ” to using information for a friendly purchase
that Vulcan’s directors backed, Zimet told the judges. He said
most hostile takeovers wind up being agreed to by the target.  Mirvis countered that Vulcan wouldn’t have shared the
information with Martin Marietta if it had known it would be
used to take over the gravel producer.  Martin Marietta’s interpretation of the confidentiality
pact would have made Vulcan subject to be “beaten up and having
everything disclosed that wasn’t supposed to be disclosed
because at the end of the day, we’re going to shake your hand,”
Mirvis said.  Company Earnings  Vulcan is forecast to lose $48 million this year, according
to the average of 14 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Martin Marietta has reported profits since at least 1992, and
earnings this year are forecast to be $114 million, according to
the average of 15 estimates.  “We continue to recommend that shareholders not tender any
shares to Martin Marietta,” James said in a Feb. 23 letter to
employees.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials Inc. v.  Vulcan
Materials Co. (VMC) , CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 