-- Asian Millionaires Counter Lost Riches in Europe, North America
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-05-31T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/asian-millionaires-counter-lost-riches-in-europe-north-america.html
China ,  India  and Singapore posted the
biggest increases in millionaires last year as the Asia-Pacific
region countered a decline in wealth in western  Europe  and the
U.S., according to  Boston Consulting Group .  Millionaire households in China rose 16 percent to 1.43
million while those in Singapore climbed 14 percent to 188,000
and India saw a 21 percent increase to 162,000, the Boston-based
firm said in a report released today. Millionaire households in
the U.S. fell by 129,000 to 5.13 million.  Europe’s debt crisis and declining equity markets slowed
the increase in global wealth last year with a 1.9 percent gain
to $122.8 trillion compared with a 6.8 percent growth rate in
2010, Boston Consulting said.  Singapore  had the highest
proportion of millionaire households while  Hong Kong  led the
rankings for the percentage of billionaires.  “It’s the first significant interruption of growth since
the financial crisis,” said Peter Damisch, a partner with
Boston Consulting in Zurich. “Emerging markets will play a
bigger role in private wealth going forward.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 slid 11 percent last year with
industrial and financial-services companies among the biggest
decliners.  Germany ’s Dax Index tumbled 15 percent while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed.  Wealth in North America declined 0.9 percent to $38
trillion, while western Europe posted a 0.4 percent drop to
$33.5 trillion, the report said.  Asian Driver  Global wealth surged at a compound annual rate of almost 11
percent from 2002 to 2007 before the financial crisis and the
indebtedness of developed-market economies slowed growth,
according to Boston Consulting data. The firm predicts a growth
rate of 4 percent to 5 percent over the next five years, driven
by wealth creation in emerging markets.  Asia-Pacific, excluding  Japan , saw an 11 percent increase
to $23.7 trillion and will maintain that growth rate to surpass
private wealth in Europe over the next five years, Boston
Consulting predicted. The region may reach $40 trillion by 2016,
it said.  Boston Consulting expects private wealth in China and India
will increase by 15 percent and 19 percent a year respectively
through 2016, with affluent Chinese more than $10 trillion
better off by the end of the period.  Wealthy individuals in  Latin America  saw an increase of
almost 11 percent in assets last year, lifted by economic growth
in Brazil and  Mexico .  Singapore Millions  Singapore has 17 millionaire households in every 100 with
the Gulf states of Qatar and  Kuwait , which were less affected by
the Arab Spring than other Middle East oil-producing nations,
ranked second and third, according to Damisch.  Switzerland , which came fourth with 9.5 percent, was top of
a ranking for the proportion of households with more than $100
million, according to Boston Consulting’s 12th annual wealth
management report, which surveyed 63 markets. The Alpine country
had 11 households per 100,000, followed by Singapore with 10 and
Austria with eight.  Boston Consulting omitted  Saudi Arabia  from its ultra-
wealthy ranking because it was too difficult to define different
households within the royal family network, Damisch said.  Cross-border assets in Switzerland, the biggest offshore
center, were unchanged at $2.1 trillion as the repatriation of
funds by clients in neighboring European countries was offset by
inflows from emerging market customers, the report said. Western
European offshore wealth in Swiss banks dropped 2.2 percent
while assets in Switzerland and Luxembourg originating in  North
America  “dwindled to an almost negligible amount,” Boston
Consulting said.  Offshore Assets  Worldwide investors still increased offshore assets 2.7
percent to $7.8 trillion with Hong Kong and Singapore among the
beneficiaries. The two biggest Asian offshore booking centers
may surpass Switzerland in terms of size in the next 15 to 20
years, according to the report.  The shift in wealth growth to emerging economies poses a
challenge for wealth-management firms based in the U.S. and
Europe, according to Damisch. Finding and keeping talent in
these developing markets is a “key success factor” and
businesses may need to make several years of investment before
making a profit, the report said.  “For the ‘old world’ it’s all about revenue and profit
protection,” Damisch said. “It’s tempting to run after
 emerging markets  because of the high growth rates, but
establishing a profitable business model is not that easy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  