-- AT&T Mulls Upgrading Rural Lines Instead of Selling Them
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-06-01T14:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/at-t-mulls-upgrading-rural-lines-instead-of-selling-them.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  Chief Executive Officer
 Randall Stephenson  said he’s “cautiously optimistic” about
using new broadband technology to wring more value from rural
phone lines, backing away from a plan to sell them off.  The company aims to use an enhanced version of digital
subscriber line technology to speed up Internet access in rural
areas, Stephenson said today at an investment conference hosted
by Sanford C. Bernstein. AT&T had targeted the lines as an asset
it could offload, though he said today that a deal would face
regulatory hurdles and require multiple state approvals.  The move would mark a shift for AT&T, which had identified
its rural lines and its Yellow Pages directory service as
“underperforming assets” that were dragging down the growth of
the company. AT&T, based in  Dallas , agreed to sell a majority
stake of the Yellow Pages business to Cerberus Capital
Management LP for $950 million in April. Rural lines had been
next on the block.  Stephenson may have struggled to do a deal, forcing the
company to squeeze more revenue out of the assets, said  Roger
Entner , an analyst at  Recon Analytics LLC . Meanwhile, the
carrier faces steeper competition from cable companies, which
are offering broadband in a wider swath of rural areas.  “If he can’t sell them, then he has to make the best out
of them,” said Entner, who is based in Dedham,  Massachusetts .
“His lines without high-speed Internet are sitting ducks
waiting to be picked off by cable companies.”  Decision Coming  Stephenson previously discussed the rural-broadband plan
last week on an investor conference call hosted by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. He expects to make a decision on whether to bolster
the assets or sell them by the second half of this year.  “I do feel more optimistic about the opportunity to get
more broadband into rural areas,” Stephenson said on last
week’s conference call.  Of the roughly 50 million homes in range of AT&T’s network,
about 30 million are within reach of its U-verse fiber-optic
system. AT&T can sell those people a bundle of lucrative
services, including broadband  Internet access , phone plans and
television.  It’s more challenging to offer services outside that range.
About 15 million of the homes beyond the U-verse boundary can be
served by DSL, which can be slower than cable broadband.  High-Speed Gateway  To speed up those lines, AT&T has been using a network
device called an  Internet protocol  digital subscriber line
access multiplexer, or IP DSLAM. It serves as a high-speed
gateway for viewing Web content or video downloads. The cost of
deploying IP DSLAMs has been better than expected, Stephenson
said.  “Rural lines are lower-growth assets compared with AT&T’s
overall average, but they do generate cash,” said  James Ratcliffe , an analyst with Barclay Capital in  New York .
Bolstering broadband coverage could spin off more revenue and
help ward off competition from cable.  Still, 5 million homes in AT&T’s coverage area are located
too far away from a network hub to receive any kind of
broadband, Ratcliffe said.  Another option for boosting broadband access is wireless
technology. AT&T had planned to use its takeover of T-Mobile USA
Inc. to better reach the rural market with mobile  Internet
service . After that deal failed, Stephenson said on a January
conference call that the company no longer had a solution to its
rural broadband challenges.  The IP DSLAM approach has changed AT&T’s view, Stephenson
said.  “We are giving this a hard look,” he said on the JPMorgan
call. IP DSLAMs “bring broadband capability in a more cost-
effective manner, with a better revenue profile than perhaps we
would have thought two years ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  