-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Weaken After China Factory Report
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2012-06-01T06:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/aussie-set-for-5th-weekly-drop-as-yields-hit-record-lows.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars fell after a report indicated China’s manufacturing
industry is slowing more than economists had anticipated.  The so-called Aussie dropped to its lowest level since
October and is headed for its fifth straight week of declines as
concern that global growth is slowing and the  European debt
crisis  is deepening damped demand for riskier assets. The  yield 
on  Australia ’s benchmark 10-year note slid to the lowest on
record as traders added to bets that the central bank will cut
rates. New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, traded near its
weakest this year as Asian stocks fell.  “The overall sentiment is likely to remain quite
negative” for both the Australian and New Zealand currencies,
said Emma Lawson, a currency strategist at  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB)  in Sydney. The China manufacturing number was
“disappointing” and “it’s not surprising Aussie is off very
sharply and testing new lows,” according to Lawson. China is
Australia’s largest trading partner and New Zealand’s second-
biggest export destination.  The Australian dollar dropped 0.5 percent to 96.88 U.S.
cents as of 4:17 p.m. in Sydney, after earlier sliding as low as
96.49, the weakest since Oct. 6. It’s set for a 0.7 percent
decline since May 25, extending its run of weekly losses to
five, the most since October 2006. The Aussie fell 0.3 percent
to 76.01 yen.  New Zealand’s currency declined 0.3 percent to 75.18 U.S.
cents, poised for a 0.3 percent weekly drop. The currency traded
as low as 74.57 cents on May 23, its weakest this year. The kiwi
was at 58.98 yen from 59.03 yesterday.  Yields Falling  The Australian 10-year yield tumbled as much as nine basis
points to 2.832 percent, the least in data compiled by Bloomberg
going back to 1969.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks dropped 1 percent,
its third consecutive day of losses.  A purchasing managers index for  China ’s  manufacturing 
industry declined to 50.4 in May from 53.3 the previous month,
according to a report from the country’s statistics bureau and
logistics federation. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had
estimated a figure of 52. Readings above 50 indicate an
expansion. A separate private gauge released by HSBC Holdings
Plc came in at 48.4 from 49.3 the previous month.  The Australian Industry Group and PricewaterhouseCoopers
published a similar measure, showing a further contraction of
Australia’s manufacturing industry. Their index slid to 42.4 in
May from 43.9 in April.  Data Driven  A gauge of U.S. manufacturing is also scheduled for release
today, with the Institute for Supply Management Inc.’s index
projected to drop to 53.8 in May from 54.8 the previous month,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The U.S. government’s monthly  jobs  report is
also due and is predicted to show the  unemployment rate  remained
steady at 8.1 percent, while personal spending data will also be
published.  The markets are “very much data driven at the moment
because of the huge number of really important data releases
that we have tonight,” said National Australia Bank’s Lawson.  The financial turmoil in  Europe  and the risks to global
growth have weighed on the Australian currency as speculation
mounts that the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will lower its key
lending rate further, having reduced it to 3.75 percent from
4.75 percent since it began cutting borrowing costs in November.  RBA Rates  “The interest rate cycle in Australia is certainly
dovish,” said Kurt Magnus, executive director of currency sales
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney. “If we close under 96.90
U.S. cents tonight, the Australian dollar can go down to
93.80.”  Traders are betting that a rate cut at the RBA’s June 5
meeting is a certainty, with a more than 55 percent chance that
they will reduce the benchmark by half a percentage point,
according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  In New Zealand, the two-year swap rate, a fixed payment
made to receive floating rates, fell as low as 2.36 percent, the
least on record.  New Zealand’s terms of trade index fell for a third quarter
as a stronger currency and weak global markets curbed returns on
exports. The index dropped 2.3 percent in the first three months
of 2012 after declining 1.4 percent in the previous period,
 Statistics New Zealand  said in a statement in Wellington today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  