-- Study Says $1 Million Tax Cut Line Nets 56% of Obama Plan
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-05-31T16:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/tax-cut-line-of-1-million-raises-56-of-obama-plan-report-says.html
Setting the income threshold for
ending the George W. Bush-era tax cuts at $1 million instead of
$250,000 would raise $366 billion less over 10 years than the
$829 billion envisioned under President  Barack Obama ’s proposal,
according to a report released yesterday.  The estimate comes after Representative  Nancy Pelosi , the
House Democratic leader, suggested the higher threshold and drew
criticism from labor unions and other groups aligned with
Democrats. Obama, also a Democrat, wants to set the break point
for married couples at $250,000.  The report  was released by the  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities , a Washington group that advocates policies that help
lower-income families. The group said the estimate was from the
Joint Committee on Taxation, the official scorekeeper for tax
legislation in Congress.  The center didn’t release the actual congressional
estimate. The joint committee produces estimates for members of
Congress and provides them only to members upon request until
legislation is being considered.  If Congress doesn’t act by the end of 2012, all of the
Bush-era tax cuts will expire and rates will increase for all
tax brackets. The tax-cut expiration is part of the so-called
fiscal cliff of tax and spending changes scheduled for the end
of the year.  Deeper Cuts  Pelosi of California today rejected the idea that her
proposal would require deeper spending cuts.  “The  tax rate  on income is one way to approach upper-
income revenue; there are other ways as well,” she said at a
news conference. The House Ways and Means Committee and the
Joint Committee on Taxation “have presented us with an array of
those,” she said.  Obama has proposed limits on itemized deductions and other
breaks received by the highest earners.  House Speaker John Boehner today dismissed Pelosi’s
proposal as a job killer during a struggling economy. “Raising
taxes at this point in our recovery is a big mistake,” the Ohio
Republican told reporters.  Under Pelosi’s proposal,“half of those who would get this
higher tax would be small-business people,” Boehner said.  “At
a time when we are trying to help small businesses create jobs,
this proposal would kill jobs.”  Still Benefit  In its analysis, the center said that under Pelosi’s
proposal, millionaires still would benefit because the higher
rates would apply only to the income after their first $1
million.  “In dollar terms, millionaires will receive larger tax
cuts than middle-income households even if the threshold is set
at $250,000,” the center’s report says. “The disparity will
grow substantially if the threshold is set at $1 million.”  Pelosi’s proposal is a “way to move the process forward,”
her spokesman  Nadeam Elshami  said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  “To date the GOP has been choosing millionaires over the
middle class,” he said, using an abbreviation for the
 Republican Party . “It is time to get to work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  