-- Downing Said to Resign From Justice Department Tax Post
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-05-31T14:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/tax-division-s-downing-said-to-resign-from-justice-department.html
Kevin Downing, the  Justice Department 
prosecutor who directed the U.S. crackdown on offshore tax
evasion, resigned effective June 4, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Downing, 46, was the lead prosecutor in the U.S. probe of
 UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank. In February 2009, UBS
avoided prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting it helped
thousands of Americans evade taxes and turning over the names of
250 American clients to U.S. authorities. UBS later revealed
another 4,450 accounts.  The U.S. has since charged about 50 U.S. taxpayers with tax
crimes and about two dozen offshore bankers, lawyers and
advisers. Those indicted include seven current and former
bankers from Credit Suisse AG, the second-largest Swiss bank.
More than 33,000 Americans avoided prosecution by voluntarily
disclosing offshore accounts to the  Internal Revenue Service .  “Kevin did quite a good job,” said tax attorney  William
M. Sharp  of Sharp Kemm PA of Zurich and Tampa,  Florida . “He
certainly led the charge in the offshore crackdown.”  Charles Miller , a spokesman for the Justice Department,
declined to comment on the resignation. The person familiar with
the matter declined to be identified and wasn’t authorized to
talk about the resignation.  KPMG Case  Downing, who spent 16 years at the Justice Department, is a
senior trial attorney in the tax division. He also helped to
lead the tax-shelter prosecution of ex-KPMG executives. The case
began as the largest tax-shelter prosecution in U.S. history. In
2005, the government initially accused 17 former KPMG
executives, including former Deputy Chairman Jeffrey Stein, of
selling shelters that cost the Treasury $2 billion.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan , who presided over the
case, dismissed charges against many of the former executives
saying prosecutors violated their right to counsel. Stein was
among them.  A trial resulted in the acquittal of a former KPMG tax
partner, David Greenberg. Charges against New York-based KPMG,
one of the Big Four U.S. accounting firms, were dismissed in
January 2007 after it paid a $456 million fine.  Downing’s resignation comes with negotiations stalled
between the U.S. and Swiss governments over a civil settlement
and criminal probes of 11 financial institutions, including
Credit Suisse, suspected of helping American clients hide money
from the IRS.  Stalled Treaty Change  Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican, is blocking an
amendment to a U.S.-Swiss  tax treaty , slowing Switzerland’s
handover of data on thousands of Americans with bank accounts
hidden from the IRS.  The protocol, negotiated in September 2009, would amend a
1996 treaty and make it more difficult for Switzerland to refuse
requests from the IRS for tax information about U.S. customers
of Swiss banks.  “There’s been a real stalemate in the U.S.-Swiss
negotiations,” Sharp said. “The Swiss banks are rapidly
exiting U.S. customers. That’s happening every day.”  Downing’s boss, Kathryn Keneally, was confirmed March 29 as
assistant attorney general in the tax division after the
position had long gone unfulfilled. She leads more than
300 civil and criminal lawyers who handle a wide range of
investigations and litigation.  Bloomberg News reported March 27 that the division lost
almost 30 percent of its 95 prosecutors in the previous month,
slowing a U.S. crackdown on offshore banks that enabled  tax
evasion , according to four people familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 