-- Mayors Join Industry to Complain About EPA Water Standards
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-05-31T22:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/mayors-join-industry-to-complain-about-u-s-epa-water-standards.html
Mayors of America’s cities joined
industry and Republican lawmakers to complain about the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency and urge the agency to back off
enforcement of regulations to clean-up drinking water.  Unlike company executives and the legislators, the mayors
steered clear of criticizing President  Barack Obama ’s
administration, saying the EPA’s heavy-handedness dates back two
decades.  “We’ve been dealing with this for four presidents,”  Tom Cochran , chief executive officer of the Washington-based U.S.
Conference of Mayors, said today at a press conference.  The city leaders also urged Congress to provide funding to
help cities pay for EPA-mandated water-cleanup projects. “But
the chances of us getting additional grants with this Congress
is doubtful, to say the least,” he said. The group hadn’t been
able to meet with House Speaker  John Boehner  to discuss the
issue, he said.  The EPA mandates under the 1972 Clean Water Act cost local
governments $103 billion in 2009, according to the conference.  Criticism from the non-partisan, 1,300-member mayors’ group
highlights dissatisfaction with an agency blamed for stifling
 job creation  and imposing unreasonable costs in its health and
environmental stewardship. The group’s president is a Democrat,
Los Angeles Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa , although the elected
officials who spoke today said their concerns aren’t partisan.  Unfunded Mandates  “I need to remind them that we aren’t ABC Chemical and
that we share the same goals” of protecting residents, Joy Cooper, mayor of Hallandale Beach,  Florida , and head of the
group’s environmental committee, said of her discussions with
EPA officials. “But we can’t have one more unfunded mandate
from the federal government.”  The mayors praised the EPA’s success cleaning up rivers,
storm sewers and water treatment plants in 40 years since the
Clean Water Act took effect, while saying the slumping economy
and tight local budgets call for a halt to let Congress amend
the law.  “To celebrate the success of the  Clean Water Act , we
should take a time-out and call a moratorium,” Mayor Michael Bissonnette of Chicopee,  Massachusetts , said at the conference.
“We are putting too big a burden on the ratepayers.”  EPA has worked with many local governments to identify
innovative solutions that resolve issues within budgetary
constraints, the agency said in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  