-- Lazard Hires Ex-Brazil Central Bank President Meirelles
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-05-31T22:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/lazard-hires-ex-brazil-central-bank-president-meirelles.html
Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the world’s biggest
independent merger adviser, named former Brazil central bank
President Henrique Meirelles chairman of the Americas.  Meirelles, 66, will be based in Sao Paulo and “advise
senior management regarding important initiatives
internationally,” Hamilton, Bermuda-based Lazard said today in
a statement.  Lazard has integrated its Brazil operations, previously run
as a joint venture known as Signatura Lazard, the company said.
Signatura founders Marcelo Lyrio and Jean Pierre Zarouk will
keep their titles and responsibilities as managing directors and
co-heads of Lazard’s Brazilian  investment-banking  operations.  “These announcements underscore our belief in the current
and future opportunities in Brazil, one of the world’s largest
and most dynamic economies,” Antonio Weiss, Lazard’s global
head of investment banking, said in the statement.  Lazard, led by Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth Jacobs ,
ranks ninth year-to-date on the advisory league tables for deals
involving companies in Brazil, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The value of mergers and acquisitions announced this
year in the nation is about $33.8 billion, the data show.  Inflation Fighter  Meirelles led the Latin American business at FleetBoston
Financial Corp. before becoming president of Brazil’s central
bank in 2003. He was the longest-serving Brazilian central
banker, staying in the post until 2010, and cut the annual
inflation rate by more than 50 percent.  “He has both central bank and private sector background,”
Weiss said today in a phone interview. “He’s been a force, not
just in the Brazilian markets, but internationally for his
entire career.”  Meirelles became chairman of J&F Participacoes SA in March.
He’s also a board member of Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras SA,
the Brazilian airline founded by  David Neeleman , and was named
head of Brazil’s Olympic Games authority last year.  Rio de
Janeiro  is the host of the 2016 Summer Games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 