-- BAE, McLaren Aid U.K. Olympians With Wind Tunnel, Sensors
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-05-31T23:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/bae-mclaren-aid-u-k-olympians-with-wind-tunnel-sensors.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,  Europe ’s largest
weapons maker, and Formula 1 team owner McLaren Group Ltd. are
among British companies and universities offering engineering
know-how to raise the U.K.’s Olympic medal count this summer.  U.K. Sport, a provider of state funding to the country’s
Olympics program, has recruited about 100 companies and 25
academic institutions to adapt industrial technology for use in
sports, according to Scott Drawer, the agency’s head of research
and innovation.  The project has given British Olympic athletes including
cyclist Chris Hoy, wheelchair racer David Weir and  canoeists  Jon
Schofield and Liam Heath access to facilities and products such
as aerospace-industry wind tunnels, electronic identification
tags used by soldiers and nano-coated materials as they prepare
for the 2012  London  Olympics that start on July 27.  The number of nations represented among medal winners has
grown since the 1980s, Drawer said in a phone interview. “Those
margins are much smaller, so you’re constantly looking at new
ways to improve your athletes. By applying science, technology
and engineering we can improve performance.”  U.K. Sport , which has a 100 million-pound ($156 million)
annual budget, has invested more than 7.5 million pounds in the
innovation program in the past four years, with the business and
academic partners supplying another 15 million pounds in cash or
in-kind contributions. Britain’s Olympic swimming, shooting,
taekwondo and sailing teams are among those that have made use
of the technology developed.  Hours and Equipment  BAE and U.K. Sport set up their partnership in January 2008
in a deal valued at about 1.5 million pounds in employee hours
and equipment, said Kelvin Davies, the manufacturer’s lead
engineer and project manager for the venture.  Products developed by London-based BAE for British teams
include the so-called eccentric ergometer, a cycle that drives
the legs backward and increases leg power, as well as tags worn
by bicyclists to enhance precision timing. Most of BAE’s work
has focused on improving training, Davies said.  The tags, an adaptation of existing BAE technology for
distinguishing friend from foe on a battlefield, enable trainers
to track performance of individual riders practicing in a pack.  “It’s like a sophisticated bar code,” Davies said.
“We’re taking the technology from defense science and putting
it into the  sports world .” Adapting the military product is “a
great way to showcase our capabilities.”  Home-Crowd Boost  Home-crowd support will probably boost Britain’s medal
haul, as hosting the Olympics can improve team performance by as
much as 25 percent, according to a  U.K. Sport study . The
country’s 550-member team will be its biggest for an Olympics.  At least 95 percent of British athletes thought likeliest
to win medals across 25 Olympic and Paralympic sports have been
involved with U.K. Sport’s innovation program at some point in
the past four years, Drawer said.  The  technology  program carries on a tradition of improving
conditions for athletes with each Olympics, Martin Polley, a
senior sports lecturer at the University of Southampton, said.  “The first Olympic swimming race held in the U.K. took
place in the Thames, the next in a pool in the stadium,” Polley
said at a May 23 press conference in London. “At the time, that
was a major innovation.”  British cycling, bobsledding and wheelchair-racing teams,
starting with wheelchair gold-medalist  Weir , have worked in
BAE’s wind tunnel in northwest  England , which is normally used
to test military aircraft, Davies added.  Aerodynamics  Prior to the 2008 Olympics in Beijing, using wind tunnels
to figure out aerodynamics was a new technique in track cycling,
said Stephen Turnock, director of the  University of
Southampton ’s Performance Sports Engineering Laboratory. The
success of the British cycling team at the games in  China  has
driven a surge of interest into body positioning, he said in an
interview at the university’s wind tunnel in southern England,
where triple-gold medalist Hoy has trained.  A separate project at the university has tested 35 out of
38 British swimmers for the London Olympics, using a custom-made
towing machine that drags the athletes through the water to
track propulsive force and speed.  Other engineering tools developed in partnership with U.K.
Sport include P2i Ltd.’s nano-coating liquid repellent, which
will be used on clothing for cyclists and harnesses for sailors.
Sprint canoeists have practiced in a once top-secret Ministry of
Defense water tank, owned by  QinetiQ Group Plc. (QQ/)  The 270-meter
(890-foot) tank was designed to test surface ships, submarines
and offshore structures.  Racing Engineers  “Most countries have access to similar technologies,”
Drawer said. “But there is so much expertise in the British
sector.” Eighty-five percent of the world’s Formula 1 engineers
are U.K.-based, he said, citing the car-racing series operator,
and “we’re building on our strengths.”  Much of McLaren’s work for U.K. Sport has focused on
sensors and instrumentation for real-time performance data on
athletes, Geoff McGrath, head of the company’s applied
technologies unit, said in a telephone interview.  The partnership with U.K. Sport helped McLaren reach
independent deals with England’s Rugby Football Union as well as
with  San Jose , California-based Specialized Bicycle Components
Inc., a closely held bicycle maker, the executive said. With
Specialized, the company developed the $18,000 McLaren Venge
used by  Mark Cavendish  when he won the final stage of the 2011
Tour de France bicycling race.  The work with U.K. Sport “allows us to showcase early-
stage technologies at the most demanding level,” McGrath said.
“Once you’re confident that the technologies are proven and
valuable to the coaches, then the knock-on in professional sport
is inevitable.”  Technology is only effective in sports when it builds on
athletes’ natural talent and a good training setup, Drawer said.
“Science can help guide the athlete in their development and
preparation over many years, and that effort that they put in is
more important to the outcome than rocking up at the Games and
using a new bit of equipment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  