-- Baht Has Biggest Monthly Drop Since September on Fund Outflows
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-05-31T08:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/baht-set-for-biggest-monthly-drop-since-september-on-outflows.html
Thailand ’s baht had its largest
monthly slide since September as global funds cut holdings of
the nation’s stocks amid concern Europe’s debt crisis will hurt
global growth.  Government bonds  rose.  The baht touched the lowest level since August 2010 as
exchange data showed international investors sold $475 million
more Thai equities than they bought this month. The MSCI Asia-
Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of stocks saw the biggest monthly drop in more
than three years after Spanish credit-default swaps surged to a
record yesterday. The European Union accounted for 8.6 percent
of Thailand’s exports in the first four months of 2012, official
data show.  “With the  risk aversion , investors are selling the risky
assets, weighing on the baht,” said Paisarn Lertkowit, a
currency trader at  Bangkok Bank Pcl. (BBL)  “Investors are worried
about Europe and are looking at which countries are the most
affected by the slowdown in growth. Most Asian countries are
vulnerable to a slowdown in the global economy as exports
account for a large part of their economies.”  The baht, little changed today, slumped 3.5 percent this
month to 31.86 per dollar as of 3:19 p.m. in Bangkok, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched 31.96
earlier, the weakest level since August 2010. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of foreign-exchange swings used to price
options, was unchanged today and this month at 4.52 percent.  The baht has weakened because of the dollar’s strength and
 Europe ’s problems, Singhachai Boonyayotin, the Bank of
Thailand’s director, said today.  The yield on the 3.25 percent debt due June 2017 slid six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.56 percent in May,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate rose one basis
point today.  Thailand recorded a current-account deficit for the second
straight month in April as weakening global demand curbed
exports. The deficit was $1.52 billion, matching the amount
reported for March, the Bank of Thailand said today. Exports
dropped 3.5 percent in April after a decline of 6.8 percent the
previous month, the central bank report also showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  