-- Bankia Bailout Cost Too High as Investors Shun Spain Debt
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-05-31T12:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/bankia-vortex-risks-dragging-spain-toward-bailout-as-costs-mount.html
Bankia group risks dragging the rest
of Spain into its vortex.  As Spain’s third-biggest bank asks Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government for 19 billion euros ($24 billion),
international investors are tallying the potential cost for the
rest of the industry and betting he won’t be able to foot the
bill. With foreign investors shunning Spanish debt, leaving
national banks to fund the government, the nation’s 10-year
 borrowing  costs compared with Germany’s are near a record.  “The problem for Spain is that they can’t simply finance
all this by issuing debt,” said Edward Thomas, who helps manage
$6 billion as head of fixed-income investment at Quantum Global
Wealth Management in Zug,  Switzerland . “It’s a perfect storm
for Spain, with more banks now being sucked in.”  Spain needs to bail out lenders still reeling from the
collapse of the real-estate boom while its own access to funding
increasingly depends on domestic banks being kept afloat by the
 European Central Bank ’s refinancing operations. Rising borrowing
costs are putting pressure on Rajoy’s five month-old government
to join  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland in seeking a rescue that
would be the European Union’s biggest.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year government bond climbed 21
basis points to 6.63 percent yesterday, close to the euro-era
record of 6.78 percent hit on Nov. 17. By contrast, the yield on
Germany’s two-year bond fell to zero as investors forgo a return
in exchange for safety amid  Europe ’s escalating crisis.  Credibility Problem  Spain is facing a credibility problem because of doubts
generated by Bankia about “the size of that hole in the banking
system,” said  Andrew Bosomworth , a  money manager  at Pacific
Investment Management Co., in a Bloomberg Television interview
on May 29.  “They know what to do. I think it’s the consequences of
doing it -- how do the markets react if Spain applies for
official external finance,” said Bosomworth, adding that
experience of bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal had been
like a “kiss of death.”  An EU and International Monetary Fund rescue for Spain that
covered the government’s gross funding needs through the end of
2014 and included 75 billion euros to recapitalize banks could
amount to about 350 billion euros, David Mackie, chief economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London , wrote in a report on May 30.  ‘Worst Possible Way’  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said today
that delaying the recapitalization of banks by underestimating
the size of the problem is the “worst possible way of doing
things.”  When assessing the need for recapitalizations, “it’s
better to err on the high side and exceed in transparency than
be short of it and then discover it very painfully,” he told a
EU Parliament committee in Brussels when asked about Bankia and
Dexia SA.  It’s not clear whether Spain would be able to seek a
bailout just for its banks. While the European Commission
yesterday backed Spain’s view that euro’s permanent rescue fund
should be able to sidestep governments and recapitalize banks
directly,  Germany  continues to oppose the idea.  Views vary on how long Spain, which is twice the combined
size of Greece, Portugal and Ireland, can hold out. The Treasury
faces its heaviest bond redemptions for the year in October,
when 20 billion euros of debt comes due. External auditors are
due to publish a  stress test  on Spanish banks in June, followed
by a more detailed report that will make clear how much
additional capital banks may need.  Taxpayers’ Money  “We have to wait for the outcome of the independent audit
and that could certainly be another trigger,” Tobias Blattner,
a European economist at Daiwa Capital Markets in London, said in
a telephone interview.  Some investors aren’t waiting for those reports and instead
are using Bankia as a benchmark for the rest of the industry,
ignoring Economy Minister Luis de Guindos’s view that Bankia is
a “specific” case.  Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri, the former second-in-command at
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  brought in to run Bankia,
went beyond the requirements of de Guindos’s two banking decrees
in his cleanup of the group, setting aside provisions for
residential mortgages and loans to companies outside the real-
estate industry.  If that became the benchmark, lenders including CaixaBank
SA and Banco Popular Espanol SA may not be able to cover the
shortfall from the profit they generate, Santiago Lopez, an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said in report on May 29. That may
mean another 45 billion euros of taxpayers’ funds may be needed
for the industry, he said.  International Investors Flee  “Everyone will do their numbers based off Bankia, but what
these guys are trying to do is put the bank on a good footing to
make money going forward,” said Inigo Lecubarri, who helps
manage about $300 million at London-based Abaco Financials Fund,
adding that other banks in  Spain  aren’t in Bankia’s position.  Goirigolzarri’s numbers also undermined the government’s
credibility as his 19 billion-euro bailout request came two
weeks after de Guindos had said 15 billion euros would be enough
for the whole industry to meet his latest decree on bank rules.  Foreign investors are responding by selling Spanish bonds.
They held 37 percent of the total in April, down from 50 percent
at the end of last year, while Spanish banks increased their
holdings to 29 percent from 17 percent, Treasury data show.  Even as Rajoy repeated on May 28 that Spanish banks won’t
need a European bailout, bond yields continue to move toward the
7 percent level that tipped Greece, Portugal and Ireland into
rescue programs. Yields have risen 70 basis points since Bankia
was nationalized. A basis point is equivalent to a hundredth of
a percentage point.  “I was always worried that there was a risk that Bankia
could become a sort of vortex,” said  Luis Garicano , a professor
at the  London School of Economics  in a phone interview. “I hope
that can be avoided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  