-- Banks, Advisers Face Disclosure of Muni-Bond Fee Payments
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-05-31T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/banks-advisers-face-disclosure-of-muni-bond-fee-payments.html
Banks and financial advisers may be
forced to publicly disclose payments made in connection with
U.S. state and local-government bond deals, a move aimed at
revealing potential conflicts of interest to investors.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which crafts
regulations for the $3.7 trillion market, is  considering  whether
to require underwriters and advisers to disclose fee-splitting
agreements or other incentive payments tied to municipal-finance
deals. Banks already must begin reporting such arrangements in
August to municipalities under rules approved by regulators.  The disclosures would shed light on hidden incentives
offered to banks and advisers in exchange for recommending
transactions to government officials. The board, known as the
MSRB, said today it is soliciting comments on whether to require
disclosures on Emma, a website used to make municipal-bond
documents available to investors and the public.  “The MSRB would appreciate feedback from market
participants about whether and how we should take steps to
address potential conflicts of interest stemming from
undisclosed financial relationships among dealers, advisors and
third parties,” Lynnette Kelly, the executive director of the
Alexandria, Virginia-based board, said in a statement.  Targets would include incentives for third parties who
steer business to a particular underwriter or financial adviser,
according to the statement. The move follows instances in which
U.S. regulators have focused on undisclosed payments between
those involved in municipal-finance deals gone bad.  In Jefferson County,  Alabama , JPMorgan Chase & Co. in 2009
 settled  claims made by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission concerning undisclosed payments made to local bankers
to secure its role in complex bond deals that pushed the county
toward bankruptcy. An unrelated Justice Department probe also
showed how advisers that helped municipalities invest bond
proceeds accepted payments from banks they picked for the work.  With the passage of the Dodd-Frank banking overhaul in
2010, the rulemaking board added regulating financial advisers
and protecting state and local taxpayers from  Wall Street  to its
role of writing regulations governing municipal borrowing.  “The MSRB is focused on our expanded mandate under the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to
protect state and local government issuers,” Kelly said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ; 