-- Barclays Books Comedian to Harness Female Bankers’ Secret Power
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-05-31T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/barclays-books-comedian-to-harness-female-bankers-secret-power.html
London  comedian Deborah Frances-White
sees enough similarities between dating and finance that her
act, “How to Get Almost Anyone to Want to Sleep With You,”
doubles as a career-counseling seminar for women bankers.  “That same thing that keeps you afraid of offending people
and worried about asking for things is also your secret power,”
Frances-White tells her audiences. “Women’s secret power is
that they can guess what you’re thinking; men’s secret power is
that they don’t care what you’re thinking.”  Banking is trying to overhaul a male-dominated culture that
has trailed other industries in retaining and promoting women, 
according to a March report by  the Institute of Leadership and 
Management . Between 2007 and 2010, 12.5 percent of women working 
in Britain’s finance industry lost their jobs, compared with 8.8
percent of men, according to the report.  At an April networking event, Barbara-Ann King, who heads
the female client group at  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s wealth management unit
in London, joined Frances-White on stage in front of more than
150 women at Leicester Square Theatre to explain how women hold
themselves back.  “It’s always the men who are knocking at my door when
promotion period comes up,” King said. “It’s always the men
who say, ’I’m working too many hours, I need three more people.’
From women I hear a lot of, ’I think I need more mentors. I
don’t think I’m doing very well.’ It’s great to have that self-
awareness but I think they take it too far.”  Learning Charisma  Frances-White charges 2,500 pounds ($3,215) for a 90-minute
presentation she’s delivered to banks including Barclays and
 Bank of America Corp.  While she dials down the raunchier
elements of her act in the translation to conference rooms from
the stage, the message is the same: Confidence can be acquired,
and it is usually women who suppress the social skills that
spell success in the workplace.  “I know charisma is learnable because I work with stand-up
comedians,” Frances-White told an audience of about 100 men and
women in Bank of America’s King Edward Hall in March. “It takes
six months for them to be able to work a room and most of them
live with their mums. You, who are employable, at the top of the
heap, should get it in three at most.”  The wisecracks are an essential tool in driving home an
important message to busy executives, according to Michelle
Fullerton at Bank of America in London. If a presentation is a
dud, “they’ll just look at their Blackberrys or they’ll just
leave,” said Fullerton, head of diversity and inclusion for
 Europe  and  emerging markets .  Tailored Message  Frances-White draws on years of experience teaching
improvisation classes at The Spontaneity Shop, a business she
started in 1997 with her husband. About seven years ago, one of
her students asked her to present the class to colleagues at
British Broadcasting Corp. The comedian now spends half of her
time catering to banks in between stand-up gigs, screen writing
and one-on-one executive coaching.  It was Barclays that first asked her to tailor her message
for women. She noticed that female audiences responded
differently to her seminars, syncing with the sections on
connecting to and reading people, while men were better at
steering conversations. Frances-White employs diagrams of male
and female brains, peppering her talk with statistics culled
from  “Brain Sex”  author and scientist Anne Moir.  `Inherent Skills’  “I stumbled across a powerful model for them to work in,”
Frances-White said in an interview. “They’re not shoving
themselves into a trouser suit and saying, ’Right I’m going to
do this like a man.’ They’re using their own inherent skills.”  The executive-coaching industry is weathering the recession
as evidence of its benefits grows, according to the Lexington,
Kentucky-based International Coaching Federation.  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Genentech unit and
 Deloitte & Touche LLP  have all won  accolades  for their internal
management coaching programs.  Frances-White holds no formal qualifications and has never
had a corporate job. That didn’t bother Bank of America’s
Fullerton, who booked the comic after watching a few performance
clips on YouTube.  “Her ideas were passionate, interesting,” said Fullerton.
“I’m not looking to vet everything she says. I don’t mind if
she swears. I just want to be confident in her ability to
present a good session.”  Body Language  Frances-White leavens the comedy with practical tips,
including how to use body language to exude confidence.  “If I said, ’My name is Bond.  James Bond .’ And said it
while moving my head, you’d think I’d forgotten my name and had
to say it twice,” she said. “Keeping a still head gives you
more power. But you have to smile around the eyes or you might
look a bit ’Silence of the Lambs.”’  Consulting firm McKinsey & Co. concluded in 2007 that
companies with more women in senior roles typically outpace
their peers in return on equity, operating result and stock-
price performance. A 2010 follow-up report said that even as
senior managers acknowledge the link between more women and
better results, “this belief does not translate into action.”  Frances-White disagrees, at least when applied to her
banking clients, who she says demonstrate the most drive to
promote and retain women.  “They just get it,” she said. “Why would you not want an
empathizer, why would you not want someone who can read social
cues? Guys can do things brilliantly as well. It’s not that
female strengths are better, but why would you want to knock out
half the available neurological advantages available from both
sexes?”  For Related News and Information:
News on Women: NI WOMEN
Securities Industry News: NI SCR  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  