-- Belmont Stakes Horses Face Stringent Rules to Prevent Tampering
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-31T05:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/belmont-stakes-horses-face-stringent-rules-to-prevent-tampering.html
Triple Crown chance I’ll Have Another
and other Belmont Stakes entrants will be monitored closely to
prevent tampering in the run-up to the June 9 race.  All horses will undergo blood tests when they arrive at
Belmont Park in Elmont,  New York , and will be stalled in a
secure area from June 6. New York racing board investigators
will monitor all treatments.  “The Racing and Wagering Board will ensure that the race
is run in a safe and fair manner,” board Chairman John Sabini
said in an e-mail. “The protocols put forth here will protect
horses, riders and the betting public.”  Doug O’Neill, the trainer of Kentucky Derby and Preakness
winner I’ll Have Another, can’t treat his horses without a board
investigator present, the New York Times reported. Nor can they
be treated “by mouth or in feed without conferring with a board
investigator, who will first log the treatment and discuss the
reason for treatment,” the newspaper said.  “I’ll comply,” O’Neill told the Times. “I understand
they are trying to protect the horse, the betting public and the
integrity of the sport.”  O’Neill faces a 45-day suspension in  California  for failing
to ensure the health of one of his racehorses. O’Neill, 44, was
sanctioned after excessive levels of total carbon dioxide were
found in a sample from Argenta after an Aug. 25, 2010, race at
Del Mar Racetrack.  An elevated level of carbon dioxide sometimes indicates the
horse was given a “milkshake,” a performance-enhancing mixture
of baking soda, sugar and electrolytes delivered through a tube
down a horse’s nose to fight fatigue. O’Neill twice has been
found guilty of administering a milkshake at a California
racetrack, the Times said. He also was suspended and fined for a
similar act in  Illinois  in 2010, the newspaper reported.  O’Neill denied giving Argenta a milkshake and a hearing
officer agreed there was no evidence he gave the horse the
cocktail.  I’ll Have Another is seeking to become the first Triple
Crown winner since 1978.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  