-- Billionaire City Belies Capitalism’s Victories
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-05-31T19:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/billionaire-city-belies-capitalism-s-victories.html
Suddenly, it’s not much fun being
 Hong Kong .  Riding the dragon’s tail was thrilling while it lasted. The
10 years after China joined the  World Trade Organization  in 2001
saw one of history’s greatest booms, one that bestowed enormous
riches on the city of 7 million people. The ranks of Hong Kong’s
billionaires swelled along with hubris about its central place
in the Asian century.  That was until the Chinese slowdown, which almost everyone
said could never happen. Data on China’s trade, production and
construction paint a grim picture, as do  Europe ’s debt crisis
and slowing world growth.  Hong Kong’s wide-open economy might have a problem that few
want to admit: It may be a case study in the flaws of one brand
of capitalism.  The city is more than a proxy for concerns about  China .
It’s a laboratory for the brand of finance-driven capitalism
that not so long ago was heralded as the model for others to
follow. Small, laissez-faire Hong Kong was the world’s special-
enterprise zone. Now the world awaits a judgment on the Anglo-
Saxon economic model.  Economic Canary  As test cases go, Hong Kong hardly looks like a
breakthrough. The free-market crowd adores the city for its low
taxes, unrestricted entry of foreign capital and rule of law. It
is routinely ranked the  freest economy  anywhere. Never mind that
its leader is picked by China; its currency is pegged; it is
home to the only state-backed Disney theme park; and a handful
of oligarchs rule the place. To the true believers, this is
market-freedom central.  Yet what have Hong Kongers gotten out of their emancipated
economy? The highest income-inequality gap in  Asia . A widening
divide between rich and poor is tolerable if it is tempered with
hope that it is bridgeable. But Hong Kong’s government is
failing on this front. Politically connected tycoons have
enriched themselves from monopolies in power generation,  real
estate , transportation and telecommunications. The 99 percent
are falling further behind.  Hong Kong’s plan to ride out the global financial storm was
twofold: First, encourage visits from 28 million mainland
tourists a year to splurge at luxury shops; second, to spur
immigration by hyper-wealthy bankers seduced by beggar-thy-
neighbor tax policies. It isn’t clear that the opportunities
created by this strategy are empowering locals to share in Hong
Kong’s growth in the long run.  Promoting itself as the center of offshore  yuan 
transactions doesn’t look like a long-term growth strategy,
either. Once China brings those markets onshore, Hong Kong may
be left out of the loop.  The school system churns out well-trained young people, but
Hong Kong’s job-creation machine is coming up short. True,
unemployment is just 3.3 percent. But what does the average Hong
Konger who can’t get a job at HSBC Holdings Plc or billionaire
 Li Ka-shing ’s Cheung Kong Group do for work? Pouring concrete,
driving a bus or selling Gucci sunglasses or Prada shoes to
their wealthy mainland cousins is fine, but do these jobs
fulfill Hong Kong’s promise as an economic Mecca?  Local leaders seem clueless about all this.  Donald Tsang ,
Hong Kong’s chief executive, dismissed the wealth gap as a
byproduct of capitalism. Economics 101 tells Tsang that he can
no more ignore the fallout from growing inequality than
residents can overlook their city’s worsening air quality.  Clueless Leaders  And then there’s  Henry Tang , who thankfully lost his bid to
replace Tsang come July. Tang’s “Basement-gate” scandal left
Hong Kong residents aghast as they were squeezed by surging
rents and living costs. His lavish and illegally constructed
underground playpen enraged the masses. Not the most perceptive
head in the crowd, Tang says there’s ample proof that Hong
Kong’s model works: Just look at the steady influx of chief
executives and bankers.  Tang’s basement, replete with wine cellar and movie
theater, became a rallying cry. So might the widening ethics
investigation focusing on Tsang’s overseas trips on the yachts
and jets of business owners. It is feeding outrage over the
collusion between politics and the corporate world, not unlike
the one sweeping the mainland.  The Bo Xilai scandal is shining a bright and unsparing
spotlight on official corruption in China and how it stymies
much-needed economic and political reforms. The epic wads of
cash being amassed by the so-called princelings, the descendants
of the Mao Zedong leadership generation, are making huge waves
in the Chinese blogosphere. The timing poses a challenge to the
legitimacy of China’s elites as the nation’s economic outlook
turns negative.  Hong Kong has its own troubles with billionaires. The
arrest of the Kwok brothers in March offered the possibility
that Hong Kong was finally clamping down on the rich and
unaccountable. In time, we will know if the bribery case against
Raymond and  Thomas Kwok , co-chairmen of Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd., is a pivotal moment.  Yet if the world’s showcase economy can’t get things right,
what hope is there for China? Or Vietnam and Myanmar, for that
matter? Not much when the bellwether of this version of
capitalism seems to be pointing in the wrong direction.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Hong Kong at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  