-- BMW’s Apple-Like Geniuses Sell Luxury Cars with Tablets
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-05-31T22:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/bmw-apple-like-geniuses-sell-luxury-models-with-tablets-cars.html
Oliver Watkins struggles to explain
to car shoppers that his job is to be a genius for  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG. (BMW)   “We tell them we work for BMW in a new, exciting role, and
we sometimes refer to ourselves as the ‘geeks’ of BMW,” said
the 21-year-old, who joined Cooper Norwich, a BMW dealer in
eastern  England  in September as one of the carmaker’s first two
geniuses. More are on their way.  Borrowing an idea from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s stores, BMW plans to
add tablet-toting product experts to the staff of its 3,000
dealers worldwide. Watkins and his colleagues will help
customers link a car with an iPhone and sort through options
like Night Vision and Active Steering without selling pressure.  Seeking to defend its lead in luxury-car sales, BMW will
add geniuses to outlets in  France , the U.K.,  China  and the
Netherlands this year and later in the U.S. The extra showroom
staff are part of an overhaul of BMW’s retail approach as
competition with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-
Benz for wealthy car buyers intensifies.  The strategy kicked off last week when BMW opened a new
store near the Champs-Elysees in Paris. The site is the first of
a series of shops that focus on showcasing the brand to casual
shoppers to broaden its appeal. Audi is joining BMW in
introducing less-pushy sales tactics, which include a focus on
urban buyers and better integration of showrooms with the web
and smartphone presentations. The goal is to win new fans and
catch up with Mercedes in retaining customers.  Brand Loyalty  “Loyalty is key because the market is saturated,” said
Andy Turton, global development director at consumer-research
company TNS in  London . “The only way to grow is to take
customers from others, but you have to hold on to your own
first. Otherwise, it’s like pouring water into a leaky bucket.”  About 47 percent of BMW buyers stuck with the brand last
year, compared with an industry-leading 62 percent for Mercedes,
according to market research company Strategic Vision in  San
Diego . Audi’s retention was 37 percent last year.  “The traditional showroom model, where you’ve got a sales
hustler closing deals, doesn’t work well in the luxury
segment,” TNS’s Turton. “Customers in this space are looking
for an experience.”  BMW, which is targeting a 20 percent increase in car sales
to 2 million vehicles by 2016, is projected to have its lead
over Mercedes tumble 72 percent to 30,400 vehicles in 2013 from
109,500 this year, according to figures from IHS Automotive.  Mercedes in Manhattan  Mercedes, which is seeking to retake the luxury-car sales
lead from BMW by the end of the decade, sparked the retail
battle after opening a store focused on promoting the brand more
than selling cars in March 2009 in central Munich, BMW’s
hometown. That was followed in June last year by a $220 million
dealership in  Manhattan , a few blocks from BMW’s new store.  The Stuttgart-based carmaker also attracted more than
410,000 visitors to a showroom that opened in  Tokyo  in July. The
store, which includes a coffee bar and Mercedes merchandise,
marked the first of about 10 urban outlets targeted at boosting
the brand’s appeal with younger consumers.  “Mercedes has continued to find increased retention,
partially due to a wide range of product choices and
consistently better messaging” about the brand’s attributes,
said  Alexander Edwards , head of the automotive practice at
 Strategic Vision . “It is easier for customers to be loyal
because there are so many opportunities to be loyal.”  Those possibilities will increase as the brand adds more
entry-level models like the CLA compact coupe and doubles the
variants of the S-Class flagship to six.  Audi is upgrading its store concept to target high-end
neighborhoods in large cities, said Moritz Drechsel, a spokesman
for the Ingolstadt, Germany-based brand. The focus of the
approach is on the combination of web-based services with the
personal touch and knowhow of a dealer, he said.  Larger Line-Up  In addition to adapting to changing buying habits, BMW’s
retail strategy is also a reaction to a lineup that’s outgrowing
most showrooms. Since 1999, when BMW’s range consisted of three
sedans and a roadster, the brand has added four sport-utility
vehicles, the 6-Series coupe and the 1-Series compact. More
models are on their way, including the i8 plug-in hybrid
supercar, the X4 SUV and a line of front-wheel-drive vehicles.  In the new 800-square-meter (8,600-square-foot) Paris
boutique, the four cars in the showroom are displayed beneath a
light screen that can simulate conditions like driving through a
forest. The music is computer generated and changes based on the
activity in the wood-framed space, while mirrors reflect the two
cars in the display windows to passersby. The store is flanked
by a Cartier and a Hermes shop and is down the street from Louis
Vuitton’s mega store.  Paris Chic  “We want to bring the car environment into the shopping
environment,”  Ian Robertson , BMW's sales and marketing chief,
said at the opening, which was attended by  Charlotte  Casiraghi,
a member of  Monaco 's royal family. “There’s no doubt that the
retail experience will play a huge role in being successful. The
car industry is about 100 years old and basically hasn’t changed.
The future could look very, very different.”  The investment in the retail strategy, which will include
about 20 brand stores in major cities such as London,  New York 
and  Shanghai  as well as the addition of geniuses, is
“significant,” Robertson said, declining to provide figures.  For Watkins, the BMW pioneer from Norwich, it gave him a
chance to pursue his passions for cars and gadgets after
previously working at a PC World computer store.  “I love the interaction with the people and helping them
better understand the cars and the technology,” he said. Also,
his mom’s “very proud” to have a BMW genius in the family.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 