-- Bolsa’s Tellez ‘Skeptical’ of Return of Mexico IPOs in ‘12
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-05-31T21:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/bolsa-s-tellez-skeptical-of-return-of-mexico-ipos-in-12-1-.html
Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB ’s Chief
Executive Officer  Luis Tellez  said he doubts there will be more
initial public offerings this year as  Europe ’s debt crisis saps
demand for emerging-market assets.  Corp. Inmobiliaria Vesta SAB, the latest Mexican company
that filed to list shares, “basically decided not to go out
because of the markets,” Tellez said in an interview at a
pension fund conference in Cancun. Vesta hired Credit Suisse
Group AG and  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  to arrange the deal.  “I’m a little bit skeptical that something will happen in
the rest of the year,” Tellez said. “I’ve been very skeptical
about the way Europe is going.”  While Mexico has a pipeline of about 10 companies
considering selling shares, the market has been dormant since
petrochemicals producer  Alpek SAB (ALPEKA)  went public last month,
snapping a nine-month lull, Tellez said. Alpek priced at the
bottom of a range provided in the prospectus.  Alpek’s IPO was the first since July, when lender Banregio
Grupo Financiero SAB raised 1.8 billion pesos. OHL Mexico SAB,
the construction company that did Mexico’s biggest IPO when it
sold shares in 2010, has lost 37 percent since the listing.  Still, Tellez said he’s optimistic that Mexico’s next
president may initiate changes needed to bring state-owned oil
company  Petroleos Mexicanos  to the stock market, a potential
watershed moment for the exchange and an oil industry that has
been under government control since it was nationalized in 1938.  ‘Realistic Probability’  “There’s a realistic probability of it happening” during
the next government, Tellez said. “If the president does it
from the very beginning, it would clearly create a very
interesting climate in terms of saying, ‘Things are changing for
 Mexico .’”  Enrique Pena Nieto, the frontrunner in polls before the July
1 vote, says he’ll seek to open the industry to private
investment.  Tellez also said he expects the exchange’s derivatives
business to pick up, with revenue increasing “at least” 50
percent. Pending regulatory changes that will require over-the-
counter derivatives to pass through a clearing house will
bolster revenue, Tellez said.  Mexico’s National Banking and Securities Commission is
working on the new rules to comply with Group of 20 guidelines
and expects to finish them by year-end, spokesman Carlos Lopez- Moctezuma said in a May 22 e-mailed response to questions. The
changes don’t require congressional approval, Lopez-Moctezuma
said.  ‘Very Competitive’  While Bolsa Mexicana is the country’s only exchange, it
would have to compete with other clearing houses abroad when
transactions involve a non-Mexican counterparty, according to
Tellez.  “It would increase our business,” Tellez said. “I’m very
optimistic that we will be very competitive. We will be
attracting some of the business which is done with one leg in
Mexico and one leg outside Mexico.”  About 20 percent to 25 percent of the country’s derivatives
transactions are between two Mexican parties while the rest
involve a foreign counterparty, Tellez said.  Bolsa Mexicana plans to announce a new head of strategic
planning next week to replace Javier Artigas, Tellez said.
Artigas left the exchange this month to become country head in
Mexico for Sao Paulo-based Banco BTG Pactual SA.  The exchange has interviewed five candidates to replace
him, according to Tellez.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  