-- Bovespa Pares Biggest Monthly Loss Since ’08 on Europe
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-05-31T21:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/brazilian-stocks-head-for-biggest-monthly-drop-since-2008.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index rose, paring its
worst monthly drop in three years, after a poll showing support
for pro-bailout parties in  Greece  eased concern that a worsening
crisis in Europe would erode demand for Brazilian equities.  Klabin SA, Latin America’s biggest paper maker, rose the
most in almost three months after saying it’s spending 220
million reais ($109 million) on new machinery to boost output,
spurring Banco BTG Pactual SA to raise its recommendation to
buy. OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA fell for a third day as
crude dropped amid concern global growth will falter.  The Bovespa gained 1.3 percent to 54,490.41 at the close in
Sao Paulo. The gauge dropped as much as 1.3 percent earlier
following a report that showed  Brazil ’s industrial production
contracted for a second straight month in April. The measure is
down 12 percent this month.  “The Greek poll was very important to reverse some of the
pessimism in the market,” said Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage
380 million reais at Legan Administracao de Recursos in  Sao
Paulo . “If a new Greek government manages to keep the country
in the  euro zone , it may help to stop the crisis from spreading
further.”  A Greek opinion poll before June 17 elections showed  New
Democracy , the largest pro-bailout party, leading Syriza, which
has called for the cancellation of the country’s bailout terms.
Of 1,128 people surveyed by Marc SA for Athens-based Alpha TV,
26 percent said they would vote for New Democracy, 24.3 percent
for Syriza and 12.5 percent for the Pasok party, which also
supports the bailout program.  Factory Production  In Brazil, industrial output fell 0.2 percent in April
after dropping 0.5 percent in March. Economists expected output
levels to remain unchanged from the previous month, according to
the median of 48 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Output
declined 2.9 percent from a year ago.  “Industrial production figures were pretty bad, which
shows the outlook for growth in Brazil is tough,” Luis Gustavo
Pereira, an analyst at Futura Corretora, said by phone from Sao
Paulo. “Growth is still likely to accelerate in the second half
of the year, but maybe not as fast as we expected.”  Airline  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOL)  lost 4.3 percent
to 8.04 reais, the biggest drop among companies that depend on
domestic demand.  Cosan SA Industria e Comercio , which shares control of the
world’s biggest sugar-cane processor, added 3.1 percent to 29.96
reais. Net income of 149.6 million reais in the quarter ended
March 31 exceeded analysts’ estimates for profit of 133 million
reais excluding some items, according to the average of four
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Klabin, OGX  Klabin jumped 4.8 percent to 8.50 reais.  OGX, the  oil company  controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , slid 1.1 percent to 10.30 reais, extending a three-day
tumble to 9.8 percent.  Crude capped the biggest monthly drop in three years in  New
York  on speculation slowing U.S. growth and  Europe ’s debt crisis
will reduce fuel demand.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  on May 17 after tumbling
21 percent from this year’s high on March 13 through that day.
It has since pared the decline to 20 percent. The gauge trades
at 9.2 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four
quarters, which compares with the 9.8 ratio for MSCI Inc.’s
measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 10.16 billion reais in stocks in Sao
Paulo today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
a daily average of 7.22 billion reais this year through May 30,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  