-- Brazil Rate Futures Yields Drop as Tombini Signals More Cuts
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-05-31T22:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/brazil-rate-futures-yields-drop-as-tombini-signals-more-cuts.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts fell for a fifth straight day as industrial
production unexpectedly contracted in April and policy makers
signaled more reductions in borrowing costs.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini cut the target
lending  rate  by a half-percentage point to a record low 8.5
percent last night, citing in a statement “fragility” abroad
that is having a “disinflationary” effect on  Latin America ’s
biggest economy. The Brazilian real posted a third consecutive
monthly drop.  “The repetition of the language from the April statement
indicates that rates will fall again in the next meeting,”  Tony Volpon , the head of emerging-markets research for the Americas
at Nomura Holdings Inc., said by phone from  New York . “We may
see an adjustment in the market for another 50 basis-point
cut.”  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2014 fell
seven basis points, or 0.7 percentage point, to 8.27 percent at
6 p.m. in Sao Paulo. The real fell 0.3 percent to 2.0227 per
 U.S. dollar . The currency fell 5.7 percent in May.  Brazil ’s industrial output decreased 0.2 percent in April
from a month earlier, the national statistics agency said today
in  Rio de Janeiro . The median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for no change last month. Output
declined 2.9 percent from a year ago.  Economic Outlook  Analysts lowered for a third consecutive week their growth
forecast for this year, projecting the world’s biggest emerging
market after  China  to grow 2.99 percent, according to a central
bank survey published May 28.  “This is a difficult year for industry in spite of all the
stimulus,” Alessandra Ribeiro, an economist at Tendencias
Consultoria Integrada, said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “The
external and the domestic environment are not going to change
much to bolster industry.”  Ribeiro expects Brazil’s policy makers will make two more
50 basis point cuts in the target lending rate in July and
August to close 2012 at 7.5 percent. The benchmark has been
lowered by 4 percentage points since Aug. 31.  “The reversal of monetary policy should begin more in
April 2013,” according to Ribeiro. “We project an increase of
200 basis points.”  The government has stepped up measures to boost economic
growth. Last week it eased  reserve requirements  to free as much
as 18 billion reais for lenders to grant automobile loans. It
also cut taxes to reduce car prices by as much as 10 percent and
trimmed a levy on  consumer goods .  U.S. Job Market  The real fell after a report showed the number of Americans
applying for unemployment insurance payments rose last week to a
one-month high, fueling concern the European debt crisis is
slowing the world’s largest economy.  Poor economic data in the U.S. and Brazil drove the real’s
decline, according to  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at
Banco WestLB in Sao Paulo.  “The numbers in the U.S. were bad,” Rostagno said in a
telephone interview. “The combination of these indicators
generated a reversal in the markets. The market is operating
under the assumption of more prolonged rate cuts, and the
currency is showing this influence.”  The real rallied 1.8 percent last week as the central bank
auctioned currency swaps to curb its drop. The swap sales were a
reversal from the previous month’s policy of stepped-up dollar
purchases aimed at weakening the currency to help exporters. The
central bank bought $7.2 billion in the  spot market  in April,
the most since purchases of $8.4 billion in March 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  