-- Broker Fees for U.S. Stock Trading Fell to Lowest Since 2006
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-05-31T17:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/broker-fees-for-u-s-stock-trading-fell-to-lowest-since-2006.html
U.S. securities firms received the
lowest commissions from equities trading since 2006 amid a fifth
straight year of outflows from stock funds and the  worst returns 
during the  bull market  that began in 2009.  The industry split $10.9 billion in fees last year from
asset managers, down 6 percent from 2010, according to data
compiled by Greenwich Associates. Survey respondents told the
 Stamford , Connecticut-based research firm that they expect the
fees they pay U.S. brokers to buy or sell equity securities to
increase to $11.4 billion in 2012. The increase projected a year
ago failed to materialize, Greenwich Associates said.  Wall Street firms have cut compensation and eliminated jobs
as business slows. During the fourth quarter, the six largest
U.S. banks saw a third straight drop in combined trading and
investment-banking revenue. Lower commissions put pressure on
asset managers to consolidate more of their trading with larger
brokers, according to Jay Bennett, a managing director in the
equities group at Greenwich Associates.  “Brokers must balance revenue with cost,” he said in a
phone interview. “They say to asset managers, ‘How can you, Mr.
Client, help me on that score?’ That means the asset manager
needs to concentrate more business with the firm, and that makes
it harder to spread it down to the second or third tier of
brokers.”  Electronic Trading  Brokers are also seeking to complete more trading
electronically since automated transactions are cheaper to
execute than those handled manually, Bennett said. Electronic
trades carry lower commission rates, he said.  The Greenwich Associates report was based on responses from
316 trading desks, in some cases more than one at the same
company. Commissions for the 561 institutions Greenwich
Associates analyzes were then extrapolated from the responses.
Some participants gave results for calendar year 2011, while
others gave fee data for 12-month periods ending in the first
quarter of 2012, Greenwich Associates said.  Trading volume for U.S. stocks  averaged  7.8 billion shares
a day in 2011, down from 8.52 billion in 2010, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “When you have a smaller pool, you’re trying to get more
with less,” said George Bodine, the former director of trading
at General Motors Asset Management and now a vice president of
data analytics and research at Markit Group Ltd., a financial
data provider based in  London . “It hampers your ability to have
access to brokers and hurts smaller and mid-size firms more,”
Bodine said in a phone interview. “It’s a real scramble.”  Research, Advice  Many fund managers compensate brokerages for research and
advisory services by steering business to them. Asset managers
got research from an average of 38 firms and used 43 brokers to
trade last year, according to Greenwich Associates.  Asset managers paid $6.2 billion for research and advisory
services last year, or 57 percent of total commissions,
Greenwich Associates said. Mutual funds and traditional
investment firms used 56 percent of their commissions for
research, including access to analysts and corporate executives,
while  hedge funds  spent 59 percent for those services, down from
68 percent a year earlier, the report said.  Investors pulled money from mutual funds that buy U.S.
stocks for a fifth straight year in 2011, the longest streak in
data going back to 1984, according to the  Investment Company
Institute  in  Washington . They removed money as the intensifying
European debt crisis and concern about the  U.S. budget deficit 
drove the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  to a 19 percent decline
between April and October of last year.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  won the most U.S. equity trading
volume from institutional customers based on commissions spent
last year, capturing 9.5 percent of the total, according to a
Greenwich Associates study released on May 29.  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were tied in second place, while
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were in fourth
place, the study said.  Asset managers voted JPMorgan the most valuable for
research and advisory services, on a commissions-weighted basis,
Greenwich Associates said. Credit Suisse did the most business
in portfolio trading, a category that involves buying or selling
baskets of stock, based on the total dollar volume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  