-- German, French Government Bond Yields Decline to Records
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-05-31T16:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/bunds-set-for-biggest-monthly-gain-in-2012-before-inflation-data.html
Germany ’s bonds advanced, with 10-
year yields sliding below 1.2 percent for the first time, as
signs that European financial turmoil is sapping global growth
boosted demand for the safest assets.  French, Dutch, Austrian and Finnish 10-year yields all
declined to records after a U.S. report showed the world’s
largest economy expanded less than previously estimated last
quarter. Ireland’s bonds fell as voters cast their ballots on a
European Union fiscal stability treaty. Ten-year  bund yields 
dropped almost half a percentage point this month as Greece was
locked in a political stalemate and Spain nationalized its
third-largest banking group.  “The risk-off sentiment supports bunds and is filtering
through to semi-core markets,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-income
strategist at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in  London . “With bund
yields at record lows, some investors might be looking at
alternatives, such as France and Austria.”  The German  10-year yield  dropped seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 1.2 percent at 5 p.m. in London after
falling to a record 1.199 percent. The 1.75 percent bond
maturing in July 2022 advanced 0.66, or 6.60 euros per 1,000-
euro ($1,236) face amount, to 105.185. The yield declined 46
basis points this month.  The two-year rate dropped to zero for a second day, while
the 30-year yield fell as much as eight basis points to an all-
time low 1.738 percent.  French Bonds  The French  10-year yield  slid 13 basis points to 2.36
percent, after reaching a record 2.331 percent.  Austria ’s 10-
year yield dropped to as low as 2.107 percent, the rate on
similar-maturity Dutch debt declined to 1.611 percent, and
Finland’s fell to 1.492 percent.  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 1.9 percent annual
rate from January through March, down from a 2.2 percent
previous estimate, the Commerce Department said in  Washington .
Other reports today showed more Americans than projected filed
claims for jobless benefits last week and companies added fewer
workers than forecast in May.  “Softer than expected U.S. data” gave support to bonds
issued by nations such as Germany and France, Lloyds’ Wand said.  Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and central bank chief
Ignazio Visco today pressed Germany to back more aggressive
efforts to contain the region’s debt crisis, setting up a south-
north rivalry over how to stabilize the euro economy.  Third Month  German 10-year yields fell for a third month in May as
 Greece  prepared to hold another general election after party
leaders failed to agree on a ruling coalition after a poll on
May 6. Spain nationalized the Bankia group on May 9 as it
struggled to shore up the banking system.  Spanish bonds rose today, recouping some of their losses
from yesterday when they slid on concern the nation will need to
raise additional funds to support its banks.  The nation’s  10-year yield  fell 10 basis points to 6.56
percent, after jumping 21 basis points yesterday. Italy’s 10-
year rate dropped four basis points to 5.9 percent after
increasing yesterday by 17 basis points.  “The market doesn’t want to get any shorter on Spanish and
Italian debt.” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a fixed-income
strategist at Rabobank International in London. A short position
is a bet prices will decline.  The cost of insuring against default on Spanish sovereign
bonds rose to a record. Credit-default swaps linked to  Spain ’s
debt climbed 12 basis points to 6 percentage points, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Break-Even Rate  The German 10-year  break-even rate , a gauge of market
expectations for inflation derived from the difference in yield
between regular and index-linked bonds, shrank to as little as
1.25 percentage points from this year’s high of 1.85 percentage
points set on Jan. 23.  Ireland’s bonds declined even as opinion polls indicated
voters will endorse measures designed to ease the euro region’s
debt crisis. The surveys showed supporters of the Fiscal
Stability Treaty lead by about 18 percentage points.  The yield on the nation’s 4 percent note due in January
2014 rose 16 basis points to 7.41 percent.  Volatility on Finland government bonds was the highest in
euro-area markets today followed by Austria and  France ,
according to measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield
spreads and credit-default swaps.  German bonds maturing in more than a year returned 2.9
percent this month through yesterday, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Spanish securities lost 4.9 percent.  -- With assistance from Anchalee Worrachate in London. Editors:
 Paul Dobson , Nicholas Reynolds  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  