-- Caligua Murders Wife, Vigilante Plots Revenge: U.K. Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-05-31T23:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/caligua-murders-wife-vigilante-plots-revenge-u-k-stage.html
If anyone can give us a great
production of the 1996 musical “Ragtime,” it’s the award-
winning director  Timothy Sheader .  His staging at Regent’s Park Open Air Theatre in  London  is
a firecracker. Even his efforts don’t disguise the fact that
this is an overstuffed piece without many memorable melodies.  “Ragtime”, with music by Stephen Flaherty, tells the
stories of three  New Yorkers . There’s upper middle-class Mother
(Rosalie Craig), dignified black pianist Coalhouse Walker (Rolan
Bell), and poor Jewish immigrant Tateh (John Marquez).  Their lives intersect when Coalhouse’s new car is destroyed
by racist firemen. He turns terrorist in his desire for justice.  So far, so plot-driven. The problem is the distracting
number of side dishes before the meat. Real historical
characters, like murder suspect Evelyn Nesbit, escapologist
Harry Houdini, and anarchist Emma Goldman get numbers too.  Henry Ford  and J. P. Morgan turn up as well.  We watch as the characters struggle to swim against endless
waves of minor supporting roles. When the main protagonists get
their power ballads, it’s hard to raise a flicker of empathy.  Sheader sets the period action amid images of contemporary
America. There are Starbucks signs, golden arches, old fridges,
worn sofas. A pile of rubble spills out of a torn Obama poster.  The cast and chorus are dressed in street wear. As the
action progresses, they change into pre-World War I costume.
It’s a neat idea, suggesting that the musical tells us as much
about the time of its composition as now.  The choreography, by Javier de Frutos, is a delight. There
are cakewalks and waltzes to accompany the ragtime and gospel
numbers. There’s not a dud performer in the cast. Rolan Bell
simmers as Coalhouse, and his transformation into murderer is
well done. Craig and Marquez sing and act attractively.  All that energy and talent, to little effect. Rating: **.  Coliseum Caligula  The same could be said for Detlev Glanert’s 2006 opera
“Caligula,” which has its U.K. premiere in a new production by
Benedict Andrews at the Coliseum.  Baritone  Peter Coleman-Wright  switches between psychopathic
jolliness and rage as the unpredictable Roman emperor of the
title. He rapes a noble’s wife, murders his empress, arbitrarily
forgives a plotter, and executes a fawning toady. He believes he
has become the goddess Venus, and appears in a spangly dress.  He sings with total theatrical commitment. So do Yvonne
Howard as empress-consort Caesonia, Carolyn Dobbin as the poet
Scipio, and countertenor Christopher Ainslie as the henchman-
slave Helicon.  Psychopath’s Progress  They still can’t transform the leaden piece into operatic
gold. Caligula starts as a psychopath and ends it as one. None
of the other characters has enough weight to balance him.  Glanert’s style is often atonal, with some resolutions into
major chords. Some scenes are ear-grabbing. Others feel like
note-spinning, without tension to underpin them.  Director Benedict Andrews sets his modern-dress production
among the terraces of a sports stadium. At first it suggests the
kind of military-sporting parades produced by any number of
contemporary dictators. After a while, the awkwardness of the
space comes to feel limiting. Conductor Ryan Wigglesworth often
drowns out the singers.  Tosca has her Scarpia, Rigoletto his Duke, Violetta her
Giorgio Germont. Why are so many modern composers afraid to put
similar juicy conflicts at the heart of their operas? At least
it would have spared us the tedium of watching a psychopath
droning on for more than two hours. Rating: **.  “Ragtime” is at Regent’s Park Open Air Theatre, Inner
Circle, Regent’s Park, NW1 4NU, until Sept. 8. Information:
 http://www.openairtheatre.com  or +44-844-826-4242.  “Caligula” is in repertoire at English National Opera,
London Coliseum, St. Martin’s Lane, WC2N 4ES, until June 14.
Information:  http://www.eno.org , +44-20-7845-9300.  Muse highlights include:  Lewis Lapham  on  history , Zinta
Lundborg’s  New York   weekend .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 