-- California Governor, Lawmakers Get Pay Cut 5% by Panel
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-05-31T21:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/california-governor-lawmakers-get-pay-cut-5-by-panel.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown ,
along with lawmakers and other statewide elected officials, will
take a 5 percent pay cut, according to the commission that sets
their salaries.  The panel’s decision today to drop Brown’s pay to $165,288
from  $173,987  and lawmakers’ base salaries to $90,526 from
$95,291 follows the governor’s budget proposal to temporarily
reduce the state’s personnel costs by 5 percent, mainly by
cutting back workers’ hours.  “The governor is imposing on public employees the same
salary reduction,” Charles Murray, a commission member who
proposed the cuts, said during today’s meeting. “This may not
make a dent in the deficit but we have to send a message.”  The changes won’t take effect until December, and could be
repealed before the end of June if a budget agreement eliminates
the need for the state payroll reduction, commission members
said. Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat facing a $15.7 billion
budget gap through June 2013, is seeking savings in a state
where unionized public workers are paid more than peers in other
states, and civil-service protections hamper dismissals.  Some commission members disagreed with the rollbacks.  “The legislative salaries are already the equivalent to a
skilled construction worker and to cut any more would be a
mistake,” Thomas Dalzell, the panel’s chairman, said of the
changes. “It is a gesture.”  Higher Taxes  Brown’s latest budget proposal counts on passage of a
ballot measure to temporarily raise sales and some income taxes,
while reducing spending on education, public safety and services
for the needy. An earlier plan that cut less had to be revised
when state revenue trailed current budget projections, with
levies on wages falling 20 percent short of estimates.  “They are independent and they voted as they saw fit,”
Brown said of his pay cut. “This is tough times for California
and we are going to impose some very difficult cuts.”  As for his personal situation, Brown suggested a cut
wouldn’t make much difference to him.  “I derive a lot psychic income” from the position, Brown
said. “I’d run for governor whether it was a paid job or not.”  Voters in 1990 passed an initiative that created the seven-
member California Citizens Compensation Commission. Appointed by
the governor, the panel sets salaries of constitutional officers
and members of the Legislature.  The commission in 2009 cut the officials’ pay rates by 18
percent after then-Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican,
and the Legislature agreed to force state workers to take three
unpaid days off each month, equivalent to a 14 percent wage
reduction. Schwarzenegger never cashed his state paycheck while
in office.  In 2010, voters approved a constitutional amendment that
strips lawmakers of their pay for every day they are late in
passing a budget. The deadline for the annual spending plan is
June 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  