-- California Tax Plans May Have Broader Reach, Lockyer Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-05-31T19:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/california-tax-plans-may-have-broader-reach-lockyer-says.html
California voters may increase taxes
on top earners and also raise them for some of the lowest-paid
residents if two competing initiatives on the November ballot
both pass and are woven together.  Governor  Jerry Brown  wants to raise taxes on incomes of
more than $250,000 a year. At the same time,  Molly Munger , the
daughter of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s vice chairman, Charles Munger, proposes to raise them for those earning more than
$7,316. If both ballot measures are approved, their effects
could be combined, state Treasurer Bill Lockyer said.  “I think it’s quite possible that both of them could
pass,” Lockyer said yesterday in an interview in Bloomberg’s
San Francisco office. “So then we get into this much more
complicated issue of integrating the two.”  Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, took office last year with a
vow to repair the crippled finances that have plagued the
world’s ninth-biggest economy for nearly a decade. He’s said
higher taxes are needed to prevent further cuts to schools,
welfare and public safety than lawmakers have already made,
closing $100 billion of deficits since 2007.  Tax Increases  Brown’s plan would temporarily boost rates on incomes
starting at $250,000. Those making $1 million or more, now taxed
at 10.3 percent, would pay 13.3 percent, the most of any state.
He would also raise the statewide  sales tax  to 7.5 percent from
7.25 percent. Together, the increases would raise about $9
billion in the first year and more than $7.6 billion after that
for a total of seven years.  A  USC Dornsife/Los Angeles Times Poll  released May 29 found
that 59 percent of voters surveyed support Brown’s proposal,
down from 64 percent in March.  Munger’s plan would temporarily increase taxes on income of
$7,316 or more, from 0.4 percent for the lowest earners to 2.2
percent for individuals making more than $2.5 million a year. It
would raise $10 billion annually for 12 years. Under Munger’s
proposal, 30 percent of the added revenue would pay school-bond
debt for the first four years. For the remaining eight years,
all the money would go to education.  Voter Surveys  Her campaign said May 7 that internal polling shows support
for her measure is split 45 percent to 45 percent. A February
survey by the  Field Poll  found that 48 percent opposed her plan
while 45 percent support it.  Voters are more likely to favor Munger’s plan because it
targets education, according to Jan Perry, a Los Angeles City
Council member.  “Upper-income people may not like” the Munger plan,
Perry, who is running for mayor in the nation’s second-biggest
city next year, said today in an interview in Bloomberg’s Los
Angeles office. “In California, people see the efficacy of
spending more money on our educational system, because you
obviously create a stronger state and a more well-trained
workforce down the road.”  Lockyer, who previously served two terms as the state’s
attorney general, said the courts would probably determine how
to combine the measures and how to split the proceeds. The
measure with the most votes would probably take precedence where
the two overlap, he said.  Provisions Conflict  “The provisions conflict at the top but they don’t at the
lower level, so you could have Munger’s impose the increase at
the lower level and the governor’s, if it got more votes, at the
top end,” Lockyer said of the income-tax rates.  Brown, concerned that voters would balk at facing two tax
proposals, failed to persuade Munger to drop her measure. He
succeeded in reaching a deal with another competitor, the
 California  Federation of Teachers, to combine their plan with
his.  “I haven’t taken a position on either of them yet, but I
have a greater affinity for that Munger initiative,” said
Perry, who cautioned that neither proposal may pass. “I just
hope people don’t go to the ballot box and vote no on
everything, which is what people are sometimes inclined to do.”  The California Secretary of State is currently reviewing
signatures collected for both measures before certifying them
for the November election.  Voters in November may decide another initiative pushed by
Thomas Steyer, chairman of San Francisco-based hedge fund
Farallon Capital Management LLC, which would require businesses
to figure their taxes solely on in-state sales.  That measure would raise about $1 billion annually, with
half set aside for the state’s general fund and half for energy-
efficiency programs. Steyer’s group turned in 955,000 signatures
May 4, more than enough to qualify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  