-- Cameron Backs Hunt After Six Hours Testimony on News Corp. Ties
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-05-31T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/cameron-backs-hunt-after-six-hours-testimony-on-news-corp-ties.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said he backed Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  over his handling
of News Corp.’s bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  last
year, rejecting accusations of bias.  During six hours of testimony under oath before a media
ethics inquiry in London yesterday, Hunt denied that
congratulatory text messages sent to James Murdoch, News Corp.’s
deputy chief operating officer, showed he was biased. He then
said that with hindsight, he would have avoided such private
contacts.  Hunt also said he’d considered resigning over e-mails
showing that a close aide was in constant contact with a News
Corp. lobbyist during the bid, before deciding the adviser,  Adam
Smith , should quit instead.  “I had conducted the bid scrupulously fairly throughout
every stage and I believed it was possible to demonstrate that,
and I decided that it wouldn’t be appropriate for me to go,”
Hunt told Judge Brian Leveson’s inquiry. “But it was with an
incredibly heavy heart that I decided we didn’t have any choice
but to accept Adam’s resignation.”  The prime minister judged Hunt had done enough to save his
job in the face of demands from the opposition  Labour Party  for
him to quit. In an e-mailed statement, Cameron’s office said
Hunt had “acted properly” and “took independent advice at
every turn.” It added that there were “lessons to be learned
from this process.”  Text Message  Hunt’s contacts with James Murdoch were the focus of much
of the questioning. “Great and congrats on Brussels,” Hunt
told Murdoch, at that stage the head of News Corp. in  Europe  and
chairman of BSkyB, in a text message on Dec. 21, 2010, after the
European Union approved the takeover.  It was an important day in the bid process for other
reasons. In a phone call that afternoon, Murdoch told Hunt of
his outrage at comments by Business Secretary  Vince Cable , then
conducting the U.K. review, to undercover reporters that he’d
“declared war” on Murdoch’s father Rupert, the News Corp.
chairman.  Hunt then texted Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
saying he was “seriously worried we are going to screw this
up.” Osborne replied: “I hope you like the solution!” That
turned out to be Cameron stripping Cable of responsibility for
oversight of the bid and giving Hunt the job.  The Labour Party has questioned why, if Cable lost
responsibility for the bid for being biased against Murdoch, it
was passed to Hunt, who had expressed backing for it. Cable is a
member of the Liberal Democrats, the junior partners in the
ruling coalition with Cameron’s and Hunt’s Tories.  Phone Call  In November 2010, Hunt had tried to set up a meeting with
 James Murdoch  to discuss the bid. When his officials told him
this would be inappropriate while Cable was considering it, Hunt
had a private phone call with Murdoch instead and then wrote to
Cameron arguing for the company’s cause. He told the inquiry
that with hindsight, he wouldn’t have done that.  Hunt went on to deny he’d been biased in favor of News
Corp.’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.1 billion) offer, even though
he’d expressed sympathy for the bid. He said he relied on the
advice of regulators such as Ofcom, which oversees the media.  “I had put aside my policy priorities in this area,” he
said. “Media plurality is a much, much higher-order decision.
It’s about the health of the democracy. That was my priority.”  He pointed to decisions he’d made in the review that he
said had angered  News Corp. (NWSA) , including referring it to Ofcom.
“As far as they were concerned, Ofcom was a bete noir,” Hunt
said.  ‘Miss Ofcom’  Even when he had “quasi-judicial” responsibility for the
takeover, Hunt didn’t completely give up private contact with
News Corp. He said he replied to occasional text messages from
lobbyist Fred Michel out of politeness. And in March 2011 he
texted James Murdoch his congratulations on a promotion to  New
York . “I am sure u will really miss Ofcom,” he wrote. Asked
about that at the inquiry, he explained: “I was pulling his
leg.”  News Corp.’s chief concern was to speed up the approval
process. By April 2011, it had discovered that phone hacking at
its News of the World newspaper, which it previously said was
limited to a single reporter, was in fact more widespread. Hunt
asked for legal advice on whether he should consider hacking in
his review of the deal.  “The one way that phone hacking could impinge was that
there was an issue in trust,” he said. “You had to be
confident you could trust the people you were doing a deal
with.”  ‘Everyone’s Interest’  Michel expressed a desire to get the deal approved rapidly
in communications with Hunt’s aide, Smith. Michel asked Smith on
May 29 if the company would be able to get a decision by June
24, which would be “in everyone’s interest,” according to e-
mail messages that News Corp. provided to the inquiry. On June
15, he sent another asking, “How do we get things moving?” and
complaining that Hunt’s department was moving too slowly.  “We didn’t know that this was a volcano that was about to
erupt,” Hunt said. “We were just looking at evidence in the
media.”  The eruption came in July, when the  Guardian newspaper 
reported that the News of the World had hacked into the voice
mail of a murdered schoolgirl. News Corp. was forced to close
the Sunday tabloid, Britain’s biggest-selling newspaper, and
withdrew the offer for BSkyB.  Hunt said had he known about the extent of hacking earlier,
he would have blocked the bid. “I do not think we would have
got so far down the track with the merger given what we now know
about corporate malpractice at News International,” News
Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit, he said in his written evidence.  The culture secretary said Smith had to quit because he’d
acted improperly under pressure from Michel, who sent him
hundreds of text messages requesting updates.  “I wish he’d told us about the pressure he was under,”
Hunt said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  