-- Canada First Quarter Current Account Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-05-31T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/canada-first-quarter-current-account-report-text-.html
Following is the text of  Canada ’s
current account report for the first quarter released by
 Statistics Canada .  Canada’s current account deficit (on a seasonally adjusted
basis) expanded by $0.6 billion to $10.3 billion in the first
quarter, as a lower surplus on goods was partly offset by a
lower deficit on investment income.  In the capital and financial account (unadjusted for
seasonal variation), increased foreign direct investment in
Canada was the major contributor to the inflow of funds to the
Canadian economy in the quarter.  Goods surplus declines on weaker exports  The overall goods surplus was down $1.3 billion in the
first quarter. This reflected lower exports, as imports were
largely unchanged. However, the surplus with the  United States 
widened by $1.1 billion, reaching its highest level since the
third quarter of 2008, led by increased exports of energy
products.  Total exports of goods declined $1.3 billion to $120.2
billion. Industrial goods exports were down $1.8 billion.
Precious metals accounted for $0.7 billion of this decline,
following record exports in the fourth quarter in 2011. Exports
of machinery and equipment fell by $1.1 billion on lower volumes
and prices. These declines were partly offset by stronger
exports of energy products, reflecting higher volumes. This was
due to record sales of crude petroleum, moderated by lower sales
of natural gas. Natural gas prices continued to decline, down
40% during the last two quarters, leading to the lowest current-
dollar exports of that product since 1997.  Imports of goods remained at $117.8 billion in the first
quarter. Automotive products were up $1.4 billion, as a result
of higher volumes of imported cars and trucks. Industrial goods
fell $0.7 billion, mostly on lower imports of precious metals.
Consumer goods and machinery and equipment imports also declined
in the quarter.  Deficit on services edges up  The overall deficit on trade in services rose $0.2 billion
to $6.2 billion in the first quarter. This reflected small
changes across the components of trade in services. Lower
receipts in cross-border transportation led to a $0.2 billion
increase in the transportation services deficit. Spending by
foreign travellers in Canada was up $0.1 billion, resulting in a
reduction of the same amount in the travel deficit. The surplus
on commercial services edged down $0.1 billion, as imports rose
slightly more than exports.  Investment income deficit narrows on lower payments  The deficit on investment income was down $0.8 billion to
$5.7 billion in the first quarter. This largely reflected a
reduction in the income payment flows on foreign investment.
Profits earned by non-resident corporations on their direct
investment in Canada declined $1.1 billion in the first quarter,
following a peak in the previous quarter. Earnings on Canadian
direct investment abroad decreased slightly to $10.3 billion in
the first quarter, remaining close to the high of $10.6 billion
reached in the fourth quarter of 2010.  Lowest foreign acquisition of Canadian securities in over three
years  Foreign investors acquired $6.3 billion of Canadian
securities in the first quarter, down from an investment of
$27.2 billion in the previous quarter. Non-residents continued
to invest in bonds but reduced their holdings of other
instruments in the quarter. This resulted in the lowest amount
invested by non-residents in Canadian securities in more than
three years.  Non-resident investors purchased $14.8 billion of Canadian
bonds in the first quarter, a 13th straight quarter of
acquisition. Foreign investment targeted Canadian dollar-
denominated bonds issued by the federal government and its
enterprises. However, foreign holdings of Canadian money market
instruments were down $7.7 billion, following a $26.0 billion
increase in the second half of 2011. The reductions were
focussed in Government of Canada Treasury bills, and reflected
retirements as well as reduced purchases by foreign investors.  Non-residents sold $810 million of Canadian equities in the
first quarter, marking the first such divestment in two years.
The reduction was led by sales on the secondary market. New
issues of Canadian shares to non-residents resulting from merger
and acquisition activity moderated the decrease in holdings of
Canadian equities by foreign investors. Canadian stock prices
were up 3.7% in the first quarter, compared with a 12% increase
in US stock prices.  Canadian portfolio investment abroad focused on equities  Canadian investment in foreign securities reached $6.6
billion in the first quarter and was attributable to equities.
Acquisitions of $10.2 billion of foreign shares, led by pension
plans, were partially offset by a divestment in debt securities.
Canadian holdings of both short- and long-term debt instruments
were down in the quarter.  Canadian investment in foreign securities exceeded foreign
investment in Canadian securities in the first quarter. This led
to a net outflow of funds on the portfolio investment account in
the balance of payments, the first since 2008. During the period
from 2009 to 2011, inward portfolio investment had largely
contributed to the financing of Canada’s current account
deficits.  Foreign direct investment in Canada strengthens  Foreign direct investors injected $14.6 billion worth of
funds into the Canadian economy in the first quarter, up from
$3.0 billion in the previous quarter. Mergers and acquisitions
accounted for most of the activity and were focused in the
energy and metallic mineral sector of the Canadian economy.  Canadian direct investment abroad slowed to $8.5 billion.
Outward direct investment in the quarter reflected profits
reinvested in foreign affiliates by Canadian direct investors as
well as cross-border merger and acquisition activity. Investment
was concentrated in the resource and finance sectors.  Transactions in the other investment account add to the inflows  The other investment category of the financial account,
mainly comprised of loans and deposits, contributed to a net
inflow of $6.0 billion in the first quarter. Funds repatriated
from abroad through a reduction in deposits held by Canadians
accounted for the bulk of the activity. The fifth straight
quarter of increase in Canada’s official international reserves
moderated these inflows.  Note to readers  Each year, revisions extending back three years are made
with the publication of first quarter data. With the Canadian
System of National Accounts 2012 Historical Revision
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/hr2012-rh2012/start-debut -
eng.htm), scheduled for release beginning in October 2012, the
publication of the first quarter 2012 data includes revisions
extending back only one year.  The balance of international payments covers all economic
transactions between Canadian residents and non-residents in two
accounts, the current account and the capital and financial
account.  The current account covers transactions in goods, services,
investment income and current transfers.  The capital and financial account mainly comprises
transactions in financial assets and liabilities.  In principle, a current account surplus/deficit corresponds
to an equivalent net outflow/inflow in the capital and financial
account. In practice, as international transactions data are
compiled from multiple sources, this is rarely the case and
gives rise to measurement error. The statistical discrepancy is
the unobserved net inflow or outflow.  For more information about the balance of payments, consult
the “Frequently asked questions ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea -
cen/faq-foq/bp-eng.htm) " section in the National economic
accounts module of our website. The module also presents the
most recent balance of payments statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  