-- Canadian Building Jobs Boom While U.S. Busts: Chart of the Day
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-05-31T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/canadian-building-jobs-boom-while-u-s-busts-chart-of-the-day.html
Canadian construction employment is
surging to a record amid public works projects, energy
investment and homebuilding, even as U.S. building jobs fall to
the least in more than 65 years.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows construction employment made up
7.42 percent of  Canada ’s workforce in April, the highest in
records dating back to 1975, while the comparable U.S. figure
fell to 4.18 percent, the lowest since 1946.  Canada has continued to spend on long-term infrastructure
after curbing its stimulus package, Canadian Construction
Association President Michael Atkinson says. In contrast, the
U.S. Congressional Budget Office says there may be a recession
next year if lawmakers don’t avoid a looming “fiscal cliff” of
tax increases and spending cuts.  “We are pretty optimistic,” Atkinson said in a telephone
interview from  Edmonton , Alberta, where companies such as
 Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  are building projects in the  oil sands .  “In many parts of the country we saw no recession at all
and the main reason was the stimulus plan,” he said. “What we
are now seeing is the resource sector is back.” There are about
30 construction projects worth at least C$1 billion ($973
million) versus about half a dozen a few years ago, led by
government and natural resource companies, Atkinson said.  Housing markets are another difference between the
neighboring countries -- Canada’s housing starts reached the
highest since 2007 last month, supported by low  mortgage rates 
and demand for condominiums in big cities, while U.S. starts for
April were about half of the pace recorded five years ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  