-- Canada March Employment, Earnings and Hours Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-05-31T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/canada-march-employment-earnings-and-hours-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s employment, earnings, and hours report for March
released by  Statistics Canada .  In March, average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll
employees were $888.34, up 0.8% from the previous month. On a
year-over-year basis, earnings rose 2.1%.  The 2.1% increase in earnings during the 12 months to March
reflects a number of factors, including wage growth and changes
in the composition of employment by industry, occupation and
level of job experience.  Average hours worked per week can also contribute to
changes in earnings. In March, the year-over-year growth in
weekly earnings was tempered by a decline in hours worked. March
was the fifth consecutive month of year-over-year declines in
hours worked.  Non-farm payroll employees worked 32.9 hours per week on
average in March, down from 33.0 hours a year earlier, but up
from 32.8 hours in February.  Average weekly earnings by sector  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings outpaced
the national average of 2.1% in four of  Canada ’s largest
industrial sectors: professional, scientific and technical
services; construction; public administration; and retail trade.
Earnings growth in accommodation and food services was on par
with the national average.  Average weekly earnings in professional, scientific and
technical services increased 5.2% to $1,249.39, with the highest
growth in management, scientific and technical consulting;
accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping and payroll; and
architectural, engineering and related services.  In construction, weekly earnings increased 5.0% to
$1,151.79 in the 12 months to March. Growth was widespread
across industries in this sector and particularly strong among
employees in residential and non-residential building
construction.  In public administration, weekly earnings increased 3.1% to
$1,136.02, with notable growth in municipal, local and regional
public administration as well as provincial-territorial public
administration.  In retail trade, one of the lowest-paid sectors on average,
weekly earnings were up 2.7% to $526.26. There were notable
gains among clothing and clothing accessories stores, as well as
electronic and appliance stores.  Earnings for payroll employees in accommodation and food
services rose 2.1% to $363.83. This sector remained the lowest
paid of all sectors on average.  Average weekly earnings in manufacturing declined 0.4% to
$981.46 in March compared with 12 months earlier. There were
notable declines in earnings in manufacturing of machinery;
furniture and related products; and miscellaneous products such
as medical equipment, sporting goods and office supplies.  Weekly earnings of payroll employees in health care and
social assistance fell 0.6% to $806.36, as earnings gains in
ambulatory services, and nursing and residential care facilities
were more than offset by declines in social assistance and
hospitals.  Average weekly earnings up in every province  Average weekly earnings increased in every province in the
12 months to March. Growth was above the national average in
every province except Ontario and  Nova Scotia . Earnings growth
was highest in Saskatchewan and Newfoundland and Labrador.  In Saskatchewan, average weekly earnings were $918.15 in
March, up 5.9% from 12 months earlier. Earnings in the province
have exceeded the national average since August 2011.  Average weekly earnings in Newfoundland and Labrador
increased 4.7% from March 2011 to $923.58. Year-over-year growth
in earnings in Newfoundland and Labrador has been above the
national rate of growth since December 2010, and the earnings
level in the province has been higher than the national average
since September 2011.  In Prince  Edward Island , average weekly earnings rose 3.9%
to $754.18, and in British Columbia, earnings were up 3.8% to
$864.52.  In  Alberta , average weekly earnings in the 12 months to
March grew 3.3% to $1,056.87, the highest level in the country.  The lowest year-over-year growth was in Ontario, where
average weekly earnings rose 0.1% to $896.61. Growth in the
province has been lower than the national average since October
2010.  Non-farm payroll employment by sector  Total non-farm payroll employment increased 49,000 in March.
Most sectors showed gains, with the largest in information and
culture, manufacturing, construction, education, and retail
trade. The only notable job decline was in professional,
scientific and technical services.  From March 2011 to March 2012, the total number of non-farm
payroll employees rose 1.5% (+219,900). Among all sectors,
mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction posted the highest
growth rate, at 4.1%, followed by construction, at 3.8%.  Note to readers  The Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH) is a
business census of non-farm payroll employees. Its key objective
is to provide a monthly portrait of the level of earnings, the
number of jobs and hours worked by detailed industry at the
national, provincial and territorial level.  Statistics Canada also produces employment estimates from
its monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS). The LFS is a household
survey whose main objective is to divide the working-age
population into three mutually exclusive groups: the employed
(including the self-employed), unemployed and not in the labour
force. This survey is the official source for the  unemployment
rate  and collects data on the socio-demographic characteristics
of all those in the labour market.  As a result of conceptual and methodological differences,
estimates of changes from SEPH and LFS do differ from time to
time. However, the trends in the data are quite similar.  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations.  Non-farm payroll employment data are for all hourly and
salaried employees, as well as the “other employees” category,
which includes piece-rate and commission-only employees.  Average weekly hours data are for hourly and salaried
employees only and exclude businesses that could not be
classified to a North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS) code.  All earnings data include overtime pay and exclude
businesses that could not be classified to a NAICS code.
Earnings data are based on gross taxable payroll before source
deductions.  Average weekly earnings are derived by dividing total
weekly earnings by the number of employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  