-- CGI Jumps to Highest Since 2000 After Deal to Buy Logica
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-05-31T21:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/cgi-group-agrees-to-buy-logica-for-1-7-billion-pounds-in-cash.html
CGI Group Inc. (GIB/A)  rose to the highest
price in 12 years after agreeing to buy  Logica Plc (LOG)  for 1.7
billion pounds ($2.6 billion) in cash to more than double sales
and expand in Europe.  CGI, a Montreal-based supplier of technology services to
retailers, utilities and banks, rose 14 percent to C$23.95 in
Toronto, the highest close since March 2000. The stock has
climbed 7.2 percent in the past 12 months.  The deal would double “CGI’s headcount and significantly
strengthen its presence in Europe,” said RBC Capital Markets
analyst Paul Treiber, who rates CGI an equivalent of a buy.  CGI’s bid, which would be its biggest acquisition to date,
comes after the company spent $1.05 billion to acquire Stanley
Inc. in the U.S. to compete with larger rivals such as
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  Now CGI is looking to
Europe to expand where it sees a need for local companies to
invest in IT services to boost their efficiency amid sluggish
growth across the continent.  Logica cut its revenue forecast in December and sought to
speed up restructuring efforts in its Dutch and Belgian
businesses as clients deferred spending. The acquisition is the
third major purchase of a British IT services and software
company within a year following the sales of Autonomy Corp. to
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Misys Plc (MSY)  to Vista Equity Partners LLC.  Other Bids Possible  Logica investors will get 105 pence per share, almost 60
percent more than yesterday’s closing price, CGI said today in a
statement. Logica  shares  rose 69 percent to 110.90 pence in
 London , indicating investors’ anticipation that it may get a bid
from another company. Before today, the shares had declined 52
percent in the past 12 months.  “Logica is one of cheapest IT service companies, and even
at acquisition multiples it is attractive enough to flush out
another buyer,” said Panmure Gordon & Co. analyst  George O’Connor . “The potential buyers are numerous and Logica is
simply badly configured for the modern market and is fixable
given strong resolute management.”  Cap Gemini SA (CAP) , International Business Machines Corp. and
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  are top candidates for a bid, Canaccord analyst Bo Nordberg said in an interview, adding that Logica shareholders
may find a counterbid of 120 pence a share worth considering.  Spokespeople for for  Cap Gemini  and IBM declined to
comment. A spokesperson for Dell couldn’t immediately be reached
for comment.  Today’s offer by CGI implies an enterprise value of about
6.6 times Logica’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization last year, including net debt of 321.6 million
pounds, CGI said. Takeovers of computer services and integrated
systems providers in Europe in the past decade fetched a median
multiple of 9.3 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Giving Up  “It’s a good deal for Logica shareholders at this price,”
said Milan Radia, an analyst at  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  “It’s a
timely transaction as Logica’s management was facing structural
issues at the business combined with a substantial pressure on
margin.”  CGI, which provides  information technology  and business-
process services to about 31,000 professionals, said it expects
the purchase to be completed by the end of September.  “It feels a very opportunistic offer,” said Daud Khan, an
analyst at Berenberg Bank in London. “For Logica to be agreeing
to 105 pence, it suggests that they were not confident in
returning the company to growth and profitability. On a mid- to
long-term basis, Logica is saying we cannnot survive.”  The two companies have very little geographical overlap,
Logica Chief Executive Officer Andy Green said in a conference
call today.  European Player  “It’s the right transaction at the right moment as the
industry is globalizing,” said CGI CEO Michael Roach. “The
industry is consolidating on a global basis as clients are
consolidating on a global basis.” The expansion in  Europe  is
“a logical step as the European IT market is very attractive”
and worth about 200 billion euros a year, he said.  The purchase will be funded by the issuance of subscription
receipts exchangeable for new shares in CGI to Caisse de Depot
et Placement du  Quebec , or CDP, and debt funding from a group of
Canadian banks, CGI said.  “The strategic rationale behind the deal is to enable CGI
to become a significant player in Europe and benefit from
Logica’s positive dynamic in outsourcing, which now accounts for
45 percent of revenues,” Gregory Ramirez, an analyst at Bryan Garnier & Co, wrote in a note.  Logica’s directors, advised by Rothschild,  Bank of America 
Merrill Lynch and Deutsche Bank AG, consider the terms “fair
and reasonable,” CGI said. The company has agreements with
Logica directors, as well as  investors  Schroder and Artemis, to
acquire their shares in a court-sanctioned “scheme of
arrangement.” The agreements cover about 18 percent of the
stock.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is handling the acquisition for
CGI.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  