-- Cheap Corn Cuts Wheat Feed-Grain Appeal: Chart of the Day
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-05-31T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/cheap-corn-cuts-wheat-feed-grain-appeal-chart-of-the-day.html
Slumping corn prices on the  Chicago 
Board of Trade are eroding the appeal of wheat as a feed
alternative for livestock production, an industry that the
government had expected to drive U.S. demand in the next year.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the discount for Chicago corn
futures to wheat on the Kansas City Board of Trade reached
$1.215 a bushel on May 25, the widest since Sept. 1. Corn
plunged 9 percent last week, the biggest drop in a year, after
rain improved Midwest crops. About 72 percent of fields were
rated good or excellent as of May 27 by the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture , compared with 63 percent a year earlier.  “As the price drops, the feeders are going back to corn,”
 Jason Britt , the president of brokerage Central States
Commodities Inc. in Kansas City,  Missouri , said by telephone.
“On the feeding side, wheat would be out of the equation.”  Livestock producers were forecast to increase U.S. wheat
use by 28 percent to 230 million bushels in the year that starts
today, helping to fuel a 5 percent increase in total domestic
consumption of 1.248 billion bushels, the USDA said on May 10.
The government may cut its demand forecasts after corn fell 12
percent this month to $5.57 a bushel and Kansas City wheat
gained 0.5 percent to $6.65 a bushel, Britt said.  Economist  Dennis Gartman  recommends buying wheat contracts
in Kansas City and Chicago and selling corn. Wheat may rise
relative to corn because of possible damage to crops from dry
conditions in  Russia , expected by the USDA to be the fourth-
biggest exporter in 2012-2013, and Ukraine, he said yesterday in
his daily Gartman Letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  