-- Chelsea Targets Fulham’s Dembele, Newcastle’s Ba: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-31T06:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/chelsea-targets-fulham-s-dembele-newcastle-s-ba-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Dembele Deal?  Chelsea is ready to make a move for Fulham forward Moussa
Dembele, who’s rated at 10 million pounds ($15.4 million), the
 Sun reported .  The Belgian has one year remaining on his contract and
isn’t ready to agree to a new deal because of interest from
bigger clubs, the Sun added.  Manchester United  may challenge
Chelsea if the Blues make a firm offer for him, the paper said.  Ba’s Window  Tottenham Hotspur and Chelsea are poised to bid for
Newcastle United striker Demba Ba, who is available for 7
million pounds for the next two months because of a release
clause in his contract, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The clause becomes active today and expires July 31, after
which time other clubs will have to pay Ba’s full market value,
the newspaper added.  Managerial Moves  Aston Villa  is preparing an official approach to Paul Lambert over the club’s managerial vacancy after he walked out
on Norwich City and  Roberto Martinez  decided to stay at Wigan,
the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Lambert is said to have told Norwich he wants to leave
after the club refused him permission to speak to Villa, which
identified him as the No. 1 choice to succeed  Alex McLeish 
following Martinez’s decision, the Telegraph added.  Arsenal Target  Arsenal is to hold talks with CSKA Moscow about a possible
deal to sign striker Seydou Doumbia, the  Daily Mail said .  Although CSKA values the Ivory Coast international at 26
million pounds, the fee could be negotiated to bring him within
Arsenal’s budget, the Mail added.  City to Sell  Manchester City  is ready to sell Edin Dzeko for about 20
million pounds to help fund a bid for Arsenal’s  Robin van Persie , the  Mirror reported .  The Premier League champion would also save 5 million
pounds a year in wages by selling the Bosnian and has given him
permission to speak to other clubs, the newspaper added.  City needs to shift high earners including Emmanuel Adebayor and  Carlos Tevez  from its 174 million-pound wage bill
to comply with  UEFA ’s Financial Fair Play rules, the  Mail
reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  