-- Chesapeake Must Sell $7 Billion in Assets This Year
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-05-31T20:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/chesapeake-must-sell-7-billion-in-assets-in-2012-moody-s-says.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  must sell at
least $7 billion in assets this year to avoid a credit downgrade
and a breach of debt covenants, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The company, which took out a $4 billion loan this month to
help fill a cash-flow shortfall, may exceed debt restrictions in
the second half of the year, a group of Moody’s analysts led by
Peter Speer wrote in a report e-mailed today. The company’s
revolving  credit facility  covenants limit debt to four times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to the report.  Chesapeake is in the midst of a cash crunch after Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  allowed hedging contracts to
expire in late 2011, leaving the  Oklahoma  City-based company
exposed when natural-gas prices slumped to a 10-year low last
month. The company, the largest U.S. gas producer after Exxon
Mobil Corp., has said it plans to sell as much as $14 billion in
assets this year.  “Even $7 billion in asset sales could place Chesapeake’s
covenant compliance for its revolving credit facility in some
doubt, and the company would still face a significant funding
gap in 2013,” Speer wrote. “Asset sales much below $7 billion,
meanwhile, would likely lead to a downgrade.”  The company’s debt is rated Ba2 by Moody’s with a negative
outlook.  Chesapeake told investors on May 11 that some of the
planned 2012 asset sales might be postponed to retain  cash flow 
necessary to comply with bank covenants.  Selling Texas Assets  Three days later, the company canceled plans to raise as
much as $1 billion by selling future production from  oil wells 
in the Eagle Ford Shale in south Texas. Chesapeake also
indefinitely delayed an initial share sale for its oilfield-
services unit, citing “market conditions.”  McClendon, 52, plans to sell oil and gas assets in Texas,
Oklahoma, Kansas and other states to plug a cash shortfall that
 James Sullivan , an analyst with Alembic Global Advisors,
estimated may exceed $15 billion this year and $7 billion in
2013.  The company’s 1.5 million net acres in Texas’ Permian Basin
may attract several bidders and are worth $4 billion to $6
billion, Moody’s said.  Chesapeake  rose  2.8 percent to $16.90 at the close in New
York. The shares have declined 24 percent this year as a glut of
North American gas collapsed prices for the fuel and McClendon’s
finances spurred internal and external probes. McClendon, who is
being stripped of his role as chairman, took personal loans from
companies that were also involved in financial transactions with
Chesapeake.  McClendon faces shareholders on June 8 when the company
convenes its annual meeting in  Oklahoma City . Billionaire
investor  Carl Icahn  announced last week that he acquired a 7.56
percent stake and wants four of the nine board members replaced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  