-- Chilean Peso Rises, Paring Steepest Monthly Drop Since September
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-05-31T20:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/chile-peso-weakens-to-lowest-level-of-2012-on-u-s-growth-report.html
The Chilean peso advanced, paring its
steepest monthly decline since September, after a poll showed a
Greek political party that favors accepting conditions for a
bailout led rivals, encouraging demand for riskier assets.  “There was a turnaround in global markets because of the
Greek opinion poll,” said Cristian Donoso, a trader at Banchile
Corredores de Bolsa SA “The market was long dollars and taking
a break at 521.5 when there was a lot of offers of dollars.
Today is Thursday, and there was a lot of corporate selling.”  Chilean mining companies often sell U.S. currency on
Thursdays so they have pesos to meet payroll commitments on
Fridays. In the four years through the end of April, the peso
appreciated on average 0.14 percent on Thursdays and weakened on
average on the other four days of the week.  The peso appreciated 0.2 percent today to 516.38 per  U.S.
dollar . It earlier touched 521.28, the weakest level since
December. The currency dropped 6.1 percent in May as the price
of copper, Chile’s top export, fell 12 percent in  New York .  The Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin American Currency Index pared
its decline today to 0.6 percent as an opinion poll for  Athens ’s
Alpha TV indicated that  Greece ’s New Democracy party is beating
Syriza, which had called for canceling the country’s bailout
deal, before June 17 elections.  Decline in Copper  Copper, used in new homes and cars, fell on concern that a
deeper European crisis would damp global growth and that Chinese
growth is slowing.  China  is the biggest importer of Chilean
copper.  “The peso is the most cyclical currency in  Latin
America ,” said  Diego Donadio , a strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
 Sao Paulo . “So it suffers a lot when we have problems in
 Europe , and together with slower global growth hitting copper,
the peso weakens by definition.”  Copper is testing technical lows, Donadio said. If the
metal falls to $3 a pound, the peso may weaken to 540 per
dollar, he said. Copper for July delivery fell as much as 1.2
percent to $3.349 a pound in New York today.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to buy 10-year
dollar bonds sold by Chile’s state-owned copper company Codelco
instead of U.S. Treasury debt reached the widest in six months
today. The spread on the bonds widened to 190 basis points from
145 basis points on May 3.  U.S. Job Market  Chile ’s peso slid earlier today as U.S. reports indicated
job-market weakness. It erased its loss after the opinion poll
reassured investors that Greece may remain in the euro.  Breakeven inflation rates in Chile fell to four-month lows
as the Brent crude oil price reached the lowest level this year.
Two-year breakeven inflation fell 11 basis points, the most in
two weeks, to 2.69 percent.  Inflation forwards traders have reduced expectations for
price rises in 2012 from more than 3.5 percent at the beginning
of April as the price of oil has plunged.  The market is anticipating slower price increases than
economists or the central bank expect.  “It’s not enough for oil and food prices to stay where
they are,” said Nathan Pincheira, an economist at Banchile.
“They are pricing in further declines in the oil price.”  Local investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
increased their long peso positions by $1.3 billion to a 14-
month high of $18.6 billion on May 29, according to central bank
data published today. Offshore investors trimmed their long
dollar position to $9.4 billion from the record $10.2 billion
reached on May 24.  That left Chilean banks and brokers, the counterparties in
the trades, with a $9.2 billion long dollar position in the
forwards market, the biggest since April, and an $8 billion
short dollar position in the  spot market . The mismatch between
banks’ forwards and spot positions was the biggest in two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  