-- China’s Stocks Fall for Second Day on Europe Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-31T07:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/china-s-stocks-fall-for-second-day-on-economy-europe-concerns.html
China’s stocks  fell for a second day,
capping a monthly loss for the benchmark index, on speculation
 Europe ’s debt crisis will hurt shipments to the country’s
largest overseas market.  Shanghai International Port (Group) Co. (600018) , operator of the
world’s second-busiest harbor, slid 1.4 percent on concern trade
will slow. Jiangxi Copper Co. dropped among commodity producers
before a purchasing managers’ index tomorrow that economists say
will show manufacturing slowed in May.  Shenzhen Green Eco-
manufacture Hi-tech Co. (002340)  jumped by the 10 percent daily limit,
leading gauges of smaller companies higher, after the government
approved a plan to bolster new industries.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  sank 12 points, or 0.5
percent, to 2,372.23 at the close, extending yesterday’s 0.2
percent drop. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  declined 0.4 percent to
2,632.04. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, lost 2.7 percent in
at the close in  New York .  “The major negative impact on China will be shrinking
trade with Europe,” Dai Ming, a  fund manager  at Shanghai
Kingsun Investment Management & Consulting Co., said by phone
today. “If the turmoil spills over to the countries like Italy
and  Spain , it will cause chaos in global financial markets.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.5 percent today, joining
a global sell-off that dragged the MSCI All-Country World Index
down by 1.7 percent yesterday. The cost of protecting Spanish
bonds against default climbed to a record yesterday and a Greek
poll showed support for anti-austerity parties ahead of
elections next month, while the European Commission challenged
German remedies to the financial crisis.  Largest Market  Europe is China’s biggest export market, making up about 18
percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according to Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities Co.  Shanghai Port fell 1.4 percent to 2.86  yuan . Dalian Port
(PDA) Co. lost 3.4 percent to 3.17 yuan.  The Shanghai Composite slipped 1 percent this month. It has
climbed 7.9 percent this year on optimism the government will
ease monetary policies and accelerate approvals of
infrastructure projects to spur growth. Stocks in the measure
are valued at 10.2 times estimated earnings, compared with a
record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6, according to  weekly data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s statistics bureau and logistics federation is due
to release its  purchasing managers’ index  for May tomorrow. The
measure may fall to 52 from 53.3 a month earlier, according to
the median estimate of 26 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  Jiangxi Copper  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, fell
1.3 percent to 25.69 yuan.  Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co. (000630) ,
the second largest, lost 1.9 percent to 21.86 yuan. Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd., the listed unit of nation’s biggest maker
of the metal, dropped 0.9 percent to 6.87 yuan.  The PMI data comes after the official Xinhua News Agency
said in a May 29 article China has no plans for new stimulus
measures on the scale unleashed during the global credit crisis
in 2008. The nation has cut banks’ reserve-requirement ratios
three times since November as its economy grew at the slowest
pace in almost three years last quarter.  China may lower the  reserve-requirement ratio  next month,
the official Xinhua News Agency said yesterday, citing  Wang
Jian , secretary of the macro economy institute of the National
Development and Reform Commission. The government is also
considering whether to cut  interest rates  “prudently,” Xinhua
reported.  Falling Volatility  China ’s economy will grow by about 8 percent this year and
also in the “coming years,” Xinhua reported today, citing Fan Gang, a former central bank adviser. The economy expanded 9.2
percent last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 13.7
today, the lowest level in almost 13 months. About 9.1 billion
shares changed hands in the measure yesterday, 0.3 percent
higher than the daily average this year.  The index is poised to gain 15 percent from yesterday’s
close by year-end as slowing inflation allows the government to
loosen monetary policy and banks to lend more to companies,
according to Beijing Gao Hua Securities Co., Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s partner in China and the firm with the most correct
predictions for yuan-denominated A shares in the two years to
January 2012, based on Bloomberg Rankings.  Chongqing Brewery  “We remain positive on the market this year,” Wang Hanfeng, China strategist at Gao Hua, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “With inflation easing, there is a shift
towards policy loosening which will help improve the liquidity
situation and support the valuation expansion of A shares.”  Chongqing Brewery Co. (600132)  slumped 6.4 percent to 24.14 yuan.
The company won’t apply for further clinical trials of the
company’s hepatitis B vaccine and will no longer continue the
research of the drug, it said in an exchange statement.  A gauge of ChiNext startup companies rose 1 percent in
Shenzhen today, a fourth consecutive advance. Shenzhen Green, a
recycler of metal scraps, surged 10 percent to 13.52 yuan.
 Nanjing CEC Environmental Protection Co. (300172)  gained 2.3 percent to
15.46 yuan. Yantai Zhenghai Magnetic Material Co. rose 1.4
percent to 23.35 yuan.  China approved a five-year plan for seven strategic
emerging industries including new energy and environment
protection, according to a State Council statement today
following a meeting presided over by Premier  Wen Jiabao .
Developing new industries will help maintain economic growth,
according to the statement.  Chinese equities traded in New York fell, extending the
 benchmark index ’s loss this month to the largest since
September. Technology shares led declines on the Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index, which has dropped 12 percent in May.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., dropped 1.7 percent to $33.29,
deepening this month’s slide to 12 percent.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Darren Boey, Chan Tien Hin  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  