-- China May Resume Nuclear Plant Approvals as Cabinet Passes Plan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-01T06:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/china-approves-nuclear-safety-plan-after-post-fukushima-review.html
China , planning to build more nuclear
reactors than any other country, approved a safety framework
that may help end a ban on approving new atomic plants imposed
after last year’s Fukushima disaster in  Japan .  The State Council, or Cabinet, approved “in principle”
the proposed plan on nuclear safety for the five-year period
ending 2015 and long-term targets for 2020, the government said
on its  website  yesterday. The report didn’t specify when
approvals for new plants would resume or mention capacity goals.  The move follows a report yesterday that Japan is closer to
resuming nuclear power generation after an earthquake and
tsunami crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant and prompted a
global review of atomic energy projects. Chinese nuclear power
equipment makers, including Shanghai Electric Group Co.,
Dongfang Electric Corp. and Harbin Electric Co., had their long-
term contracts frozen after the ban.  “Now that the key barrier has been cleared, we expect new
projects to be approved soon,” Patrick Dai, an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. in Hong Kong, said in an e-mail. Shanghai
Electric, Dongfang Electric and Harbin Electric may get
contracts for 5 gigawatts of capacity this year, worth more than
50 billion yuan ($7.9 billion), he said.  China, which started its first commercial nuclear plant in
1994, is building 25 reactors on the mainland and plans to add
another 27, according to  data  from the  World Nuclear
Association .  Under Control  The quality of the country’s nuclear industry, including
reactor design, manufacturing, construction and operations, is
“under control,” according to the government report. China’s
nuclear safety standards match the  International Atomic Energy
Agency ’s specifications, it said.  Some atomic plants didn’t meet new requirements for flood
control and some had “weak” capabilities in evaluating and
dealing with tsunami-related problems, according to the report.
A few civil experimental reactors and fuel-cycle facilities fell
short of new earthquake standards, it said. Corrective measures
have been taken, the government said.  A nationwide inspection of China’s nuclear plants started
after the Fukushima accident and lasted more than nine months,
according to the report. Checks were carried out at 41 reactors
that were operational or being built and three that were due to
start construction, it said.  The government will seek the public’s opinion on the
approved proposal on nuclear safety and development, according
to the report.  Key Hurdle  The safety plan was “the key hurdle before the restart of
new nuclear project approvals,” Guo Shou, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Barclays Plc, said by e-mail. “There is still no
definite timeline of the actual restart, but we believe the
earlier expectation of a first-half restart is still on track.”  Guo estimates the value of orders this year at 10 billion
to 15 billion  yuan .  Chinese power-equipment companies expect at least four new
projects to go forward in 2012, though there are more to go,
depending on the speed of approvals, Guo said. “Nine projects
were in line to be approved in 2011 prior to the Fukushima
incident,” he said.  China may have 70 gigawatts of installed nuclear power
capacity and 30 gigawatts under construction by the end of the
decade, Xu Yuming, the vice secretary-general of the China
Nuclear Energy Association, which advises the government, said
May 17. The country may have 200 gigawatts of installed capacity
by 2030, he said.  Japan may approve the restart of two reactors of Kansai
Electric Power Co. as early as next week, the Nikkei newspaper
reported yesterday, without saying where it got the information.
The government wants the units fully operational before power
demand peaks in mid-July, according to the report.  Japan is without an operating nuclear reactor for the first
time since May 1970, with all its atomic plants idled for
maintenance or additional safety checks. Nuclear power provided
30 percent of the country’s electricity prior to the quake.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  