-- China’s Blog Censorship Rules Have U.S. Parallels
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-05-31T23:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/china-s-blog-censorship-rules-have-u-s-parallels.html
What’s the opposite of free speech?
If you answered, “totalitarian censorship,” you are right --
and you are old.  In the Internet age, censorship is all about allowing
partial, temporary free speech, then shutting it down once
enough has been said. The innovator, as usual these days when it
comes to nondemocratic governance, is China, where the  leading
microblog site , Sina Weibo, unveiled its modified censorship
model this week.  Users get 80 points. Monitors will take away points for
violations. These include the censors’ old favorite, criticizing
the government. You can also lose points for  spreading rumor 
(which I thought was the whole point of the Internet) or
promoting cults (a provision apparently aimed at the banned
spiritual movement Falun Gong). The monitors will also scour
your comments for puns or other circumlocutions used to avoid
censorship in the past. If you run out of points, you’re cut
off.  If free speech is so threatening, why don’t the powers-
that-be in China just shut down the microblogs altogether? Part
of the answer is that with 324 million users, Sina Weibo has
become too big to fail, or at least too much a part of normal
Chinese life to be eliminated. But the deeper reason to keep the
masses microblogging is that the Chinese government reaps
important gains from it. This is not your father’s Communist
Party. Nor your grandfather’s.  China ’s leadership is engaged in
a complicated, risky process of trying to gain some of the
advantages of democratic government without the disadvantage of
putting itself up for direct election. Free speech is a crucial
part of the experiment.  Releasing Pressure  A major benefit of allowing people to complain on the Web
is that it allows society to blow off steam. This is a venerable
value of free speech, recognized by U.S. Supreme Court Justice
William O. Douglas in a  famous dissent in 1951 , responding to
the court’s choice to uphold the conviction of 11 American
Communists for teaching subversive ideas. “The airing of ideas
releases pressures which otherwise might become destructive,”
Douglas wrote. If such release is beneficial in a democracy,
it’s doubly so in a place where there is no robust public
sphere.  Another advantage of limited free speech is that it allows
the government to gather information about public concerns.
Chinese authorities can’t rely on ordinary polling data, because
pollsters in China can’t operate freely, lest they learn of
serious opposition to the government. And it’s impossible to spy
on 1.3 billion people all the time. The microblogs serve as
“the abstract and brief chronicles of the time,” as Hamlet
called the theater.  Once the microblogs have conveyed what people are thinking,
the government can respond to their concerns, as it did last
summer after the  Zhejiang train derailment  when Premier  Wen Jiabao  made a special visit to the site in apparent reaction to
public frustration with bureaucratic silence and denials.
Responding to public opinion is the hallmark of accountable
government. Without elections to provide oversight, China’s
leaders need every opportunity they can get to demonstrate that
they respond to people’s concerns. Seen this way, limited free
speech, followed by government action, is an important part of
how the Chinese Communist Party seeks to sustain its legitimacy.  Proxy Battle  The party is utterly aware that free speech could help
bring the government down. That is why it is experimenting with
freedom in moderation, and using quasi-private entities like
Sina Weibo as its proxies. China’s leaders are trying to gain
the advantages of free speech without paying its full price.
First Amendment absolutists will probably raise their eyebrows
at this. After all, Americans have been raised to believe that
free speech has a life of its own; that truth is great and shall
prevail.  Yet there is an extraordinary precedent for China’s
censorship model: the history of free speech in  England  and the
U.S. before the modern era. When it was drafted, the First
Amendment to the U.S. Constitution didn’t contemplate the
radical freedom Americans now enjoy. Its language, drawn from
English precedents, was aimed essentially at prohibiting what is
called prior restraint: government censorship of books and
newspapers before they could be published. As with the Sina
Weibo rules, once you had spoken or written, you could still be
punished for what you had freely said. You were accountable
under the crime of seditious libel.  That law punished -- you guessed it -- criticizing the
government, spreading false rumor and impugning religion. It
was, according to the great English legal scholar William
Blackstone, “necessary for the preservation of peace and good
order, of government and religion.” It existed in the U.S. even
after the Constitution was ratified, sustaining convictions
through the late 18th century. The U.K. didn’t officially take
it off the books until 2009.  Censors, take note. Or on second thought, please don’t. I
want to keep all 80 of my points in case I need them.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer responsible for this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at  lbeyer@bloomberg.net .  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View. Subscribe to
receive a daily e-mail highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on private space
exploration and fighting  childhood obesity ; William Pesek on
 Hong Kong ’s growth concerns; Noah Feldman on China’s social-
media censorship; Luigi Zingales on market-friendly financial
regulation; Josh Barro on taking over failing cities. 