-- Greyhound Seeks Waylaid Riders After Chinatown Bus Sweep
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-06-01T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/chinatown-bus-companies-shut-down-in-federal-safety-sweep.html
Greyhound Lines Inc. didn’t take long
to try to reclaim a share of the U.S. bus market from newer
rivals.  The Dallas-based unit of Aberdeen, Scotland-based
 FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  offered $1 one-way fares yesterday to passengers
stranded after the U.S. Transportation Department shut down 26
discount bus companies as imminent safety hazards. The shutdowns
affected dozens of routes out of New York’s Chinatown in the
largest U.S. safety sweep of the motorcoach industry.  “The well-run operators are very pleased with this
announcement, because it highlights the way these bad guys
operate,” said Dan Ronan, a spokesman for the Washington-based
American Bus Association, whose members include Greyhound and
 Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC) ’s Megabus.  The crackdown comes at a time higher gasoline costs, time-
consuming airline security and amenities like free Wi-Fi have
made bus travel a desirable option for more affluent riders,
students and women traveling alone, according to a DePaul
University study released last year. Companies, such as the
Chinatown carriers, that pick up passengers at curbsides to cut
costs instead of at terminals grew by 32 percent last year in
terms of scheduled departures.  The American Bus Association has been calling for a
crackdown on unsafe operators and supports the Transportation
Department’s effort, Ronan said in an e-mailed statement.  “Anytime one of these bad guys has a bad accident it puts
pressure on the entire industry and it takes a hit,” he said.  Safety Rules  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration’s
enforcement action primarily targeted three Chinatown operations
in  New York  and Philadelphia: Apex Bus Inc., I-95 Coach Inc. and
New Century Travel Inc. The government ordered 10 bus company
owners, managers and employees to cease all passenger
transportation business, including selling tickets, according to
a Transportation Department statement.  “By ignoring safety rules, these operators put passengers
and other motorists at risk,” Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a phone news conference yesterday. “This is a
notice to every bus company out there. Follow the rules and keep
people safe, or we will shut you down.”  The crackdown followed a yearlong investigation that began
shortly after a series of fatal crashes last year, Federal Motor
Carrier Administrator Anne Ferro said yesterday.  Fatal crashes surged last year as intercity bus travel
became the fastest-growing U.S. mode of commercial
transportation. In 2011, at least 28 people died in eight fatal
crashes, including three in an 11-week period involving carriers
operating out of, or carrying passengers between, Chinatown
neighborhoods in East Coast cities.  Curbside Operators  Curbside bus operators have a fatal crash rate seven times
higher than terminal-based operations, the U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board reported in October.  The three primary targets in the U.S. crackdown controlled
a network of other companies, leading to the 26 separate
shutdown orders, the Transportation Department said. The
companies’ networks included one ticket seller, nine active bus
companies, 13 companies already ordered out of service that were
continuing to operate and three companies applying for
permission to operate.  The department’s actions cover companies operating in New
York,  Pennsylvania ,  North Carolina ,  Georgia ,  Maryland  and
 Indiana . Besides New York and Philadelphia, there are affected
routes in Washington; Atlanta; Richmond,  Virginia ;  Charlotte ,
North Carolina;  Orlando ,  Florida  and more than 20 other
locations, according to a Transportation Department fact sheet.  Multiple Violations  The carriers involved had multiple safety violations,
including drivers without valid commercial licenses and drivers
violating federal driving-time limits; failure to test for drugs
and alcohol; and vehicles that hadn’t been regularly inspected
or repaired.  Sophia Xu, who sells tickets at I-95 Coach in New York’s
Chinatown at 87 Chrystie Street, said Transportation Department
officials came to the shop May 30 and said the company needed to
close, without explaining why.  Signs posted on the glass outside and inside at the ticket
counter gave a phone number to call for online ticket refunds
and say people who paid cash can get refunds at the counter.  Chen Chen, a fellow ticket seller, said Chinatown buses are
being unfairly targeted.  “This doesn’t happen to Greyhound,” he said, holding a
Chinese-language newspaper with pictures from the shop of police
he said were rude.  The buses are safe, the two workers said.  $20 Tickets  A few people wandered to the New Century’s  Washington 
office on H Street to find a handwritten sign taped to the front
gate, “Don’t go upstairs -- Close.”  If New Century gets back in business, Oliver Oree said he
wouldn’t hesitate to use the line again. The 56-year-old retired
plumber bought tickets twice a month for trips from Washington
to New York, preferring the $20 one-way fare to $70 on
Greyhound.  “I don’t know what their problem is with safety,” Oree
said. “I take my grandkids on it all the time. I’ve never had
any difficulties.”  The FMCSA shut down some curbside bus companies last
summer. Follow-up investigations found safety defects with other
carriers operating on the Interstate 95 corridor, and agency
investigators worked to establish links between bus networks.  The NTSB, in a separate investigation of a March 12, 2011
crash that killed 15 people in the Bronx, found the driver had
been hired by a discount operator even though his license had
been suspended 18 times and he’d been fired from two previous
transportation jobs, according to documents released earlier
this month. The board is holding a hearing to discuss its
investigation of that crash June 5.  In its report last year, the safety board found that
curbside operators outnumbered traditional terminal-based
companies like Greyhound, 71 to 51.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  