-- China Slowdown Ripples Through Hong Kong as Sales Weaken
-- B y   P a u l   P a n c k h u r s t
-- 2012-06-01T11:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/china-slowdown-ripples-through-hong-kong-as-sales-weaken.html
China’s slowdown is rippling through
 Hong Kong , with the city’s retail sales rising at the slowest
pace since 2009 as mainland visitors cut spending.  Sales rose 11.4 percent in April from a year earlier, the
government said yesterday. That’s the smallest gain since
October 2009, excluding January and February numbers distorted
by the Lunar New Year holiday. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg poll of economists was for a 16.4 percent increase.  The smaller-than-estimated gain came the same day as
jewelry retailer Graff Diamonds Corp. shelved a $1 billion
initial public offering in Hong Kong, blaming “consistently
declining stock markets.” Graff’s rivals are feeling the
effects, too. Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Co. billionaire Cheng Yu
Tung’s net worth dropped about 26 percent this year to $15
billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  “Less extravagant spending by mainland shoppers is part of
the issue,” said Donna Kwok, a Hong Kong-based economist at
 HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  “Local households are also being more
prudent because of increasing turbulence in financial markets.”  China’s economy  is cooling as Premier  Wen Jiabao  extends a
crackdown on speculation in the housing market and Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis and austerity measures constrain exports.
In Hong Kong, a 15 percent decline in the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  since
February has damped confidence and demand as households see the
value of their assets dwindle. The benchmark is down 21 percent
in the past 12 months.  Luxury Goods  Graff marketed its IPO amid a slowdown in luxury-goods
spending in Hong Kong, where Chinese tourists splurge to take
advantage of lower tax rates than in the mainland.  Sales of jewelry, watches and valuable gifts in Hong Kong
rose an average of 17 percent in the first three months compared
with a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s down from growth of about 37 percent in the last quarter
of 2011, the data show.  At Hong Kong-listed jewelry maker and retailer  Chow Sang
Sang Holdings International Ltd. (116) , Chief Financial Officer
Theodore Tam said that Chinese tourists have reined in spending
on products selling for HK$100,000 ($12,900) or more.  It’s “difficult to predict” what their spending will be
like in coming months, he said. “There are a lot of things that
impact the overall sentiment, in particular what the Chinese
government will do in terms of policy incentives that may give a
boost to the economy.”  Limiting Slowdown  Hong Kong’s lower taxes may help to limit the scale of the
slowdown in retail sales growth. Shopping in the Central
district today, Wang Wei, 26, of Kaifeng in the Chinese province
of Henan, said prices were cheaper than on the mainland and she
planned to buy cosmetics and watches after already purchasing
jewelry during her five-day visit.  In  China , a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to 50.4 in May
from 53.3 in April, the nation’s statistics bureau and logistics
federation said. That was the weakest reading since December and
compared with the 52 median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of 27 economists. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  A separate PMI released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics also declined.  The Chinese  economy  “is probably cooling faster than
originally expected,” Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist
at  Barclays Capital  who formerly worked for the  World Bank , said
before the release. “The only effective way to stabilize growth
quickly is through investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Beijing at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  