-- China Must Speed Reform Even as Hard Landing Avoided: Liu
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h
-- 2012-05-31T16:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/china-must-speed-reform-even-as-hard-landing-avoided-liu-says.html
China  needs to speed the pace of
domestic reform and change its economic model to become less
reliant on exports and reduce the impact of crises such as the
one roiling  Europe , said former banking regulator  Liu Mingkang .  The world’s second-biggest economy will “never suffer” a
so-called hard landing as long as  gross domestic product 
continues to expand at least 7 percent over five years and at
least 6 percent over 10 years, Liu said yesterday in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in  Hong Kong , where he was
attending a Fung Global Institute conference. Liu was head of
China’s banking watchdog until October.  Liu’s comments reflect growing concern that Premier  Wen
Jiabao  and the ruling Communist Party need to do more to boost
domestic demand and counter a deepening economic slowdown as
Europe’s debt crisis curbs demand for China’s exports. Policy
makers are wary of repeating a $586 billion-fiscal stimulus
program unveiled in 2008, which drove  living costs  higher and
left some regional governments struggling to pay off bank loans.  “China has made great strides in terms of boosting
 consumer spending , but in the short term, it has to maintain
investment spending if it doesn’t want the economy to
collapse,” said  Frederic Neumann , the Hong Kong-based co-head
of Asian economics at HSBC Holdings Plc. “The near-term
challenge for China is to rescue growth and there is an urgent
need to roll out investment projects. Any rebalancing will be
for the next two to three years.”  China’s economy  may grow in 2012 at its slowest pace in 13
years, a Bloomberg News survey showed last month, as Europe’s
debt crisis curbs exports, manufacturing shrinks and demand for
new homes wanes. GDP expansion, which dropped to 8.1 percent in
the first quarter, may further slip to 7.9 percent in the three
months ending in June, according to the survey. That would be
the sixth quarterly deceleration.  Loan Risk  China has no plan to introduce stimulus measures to support
growth on the scale unleashed during the depths of the global
credit crisis in 2008, the nation’s state-run Xinhua News Agency
said earlier this week, without attributing the information. The
restraint may reflect concern that the record lending boom that
helped the nation weather a contraction in trade in 2008-2009
raised risks of a bad-loan crisis.  The health of Chinese banks is “so far, so good,” said
Liu, who oversaw a restructuring of the nation’s banks as the
first head of the China Banking Regulatory Commission from 2003
until October 2011. The lenders’ corporate governance and risk
management systems have improved, and they are “highly
conservative,” he said.  “In general, the banking industry in  Asia  is more cautious
and more resilient,” he said.  Liu presided over capital injections and purchases of bad
assets during his tenure as head of the banking watchdog,
bringing the total value of bailouts over a decade-long overhaul
of state-run banks to $650 billion. The nation’s four largest
lenders went on to raise a total $74 billion in first-time share
sales from 2005 to 2010, with  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) ’s
$22.1 billion share sale in 2010 becoming the world’s largest
initial public offering at that time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Robyn Meredith in Hong Kong at 
 rmeredith8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  