-- CIBC Second-Quarter Profit Rises 5.7% on Consumers
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-05-31T21:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/cibc-second-quarter-profit-rises-5-7-percent-on-consumer-lending.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ,
the country’s fifth-biggest bank, said second-quarter profit
rose 5.7 percent on consumer lending gains, topping analysts’
estimates.  Net income for the quarter ended April 30 was C$811 million
($790 million), or C$1.90 a share, compared with C$767 million,
or C$1.80 a share, a year earlier, the Toronto-based bank said
today in a statement. Revenue rose 2.3 percent to C$3.08
billion.  CIBC joins  Canada ’s other banks in posting higher profit
from consumer lending, as record-low  interest rates  fueled
borrowing. Analysts and investors anticipate domestic banking
profit growth at banks will slow in the second half of 2012 as
Canadians with record-high  household debt  pare borrowing.  “Earnings are still pretty good,”  Todd Johnson , who helps
manage C$350 million including CIBC shares at BCV Asset
Management in Winnipeg, Manitoba, said today in an interview.
“Absent of some shock, I don’t see a huge erosion in bank
earnings over the next year.”  CIBC said it had adjusted earnings of C$2 a share, compared
with the C$1.88 a share average  estimate  of 17 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  CIBC  climbed  2.5 percent to C$72.07 at 4 p.m. in Toronto,
its biggest gain in six months, leading a rise among Canadian
banks.  Consumer Lending  Consumer lending and business banking earnings climbed 12
percent to C$556 million, as mortgages, deposits and business
loans rose. Net interest margin, or the difference between what
a bank charges for loans and pays in deposits, widened to 2.56
percent from 2.52 percent in the first quarter, after the lender
shifted from broker mortgages to more profitable CIBC-branded
home loans sold in branches.  The bank said it continues to “explore strategic options,
including a potential sale” of its FirstLine Mortgages broker
brand.  Canadian Imperial will expand its weekday banking hours and
open more branches on weekends starting September to focus on
customers and bolster sales, David Williamson, CIBC’s head of
consumer lending, said in a conference call.  Canadian Imperial set aside C$308 million for bad loans, up
from C$245 million.  CIBC said economic growth should be “modest” in Canada
and the U.S. this year, with gross domestic product gains of
about 2 percent in Canada and slightly higher in the U.S.  ‘Slower Growth’  “Retail and business banking will face slightly slower
growth in demand for mortgages, while consumer credit demand
could continue to see limited growth,” the bank said in the
statement. “Demand for business credit should decelerate to a
still healthy growth rate.”  The slower economic growth is unlikely to result in a
deterioration in household credit quality, with the  unemployment
rate  holding steady, the bank said.  Wealth management profit, which includes mutual fund sales,
rose 8.2 percent to C$79 million after adding earnings from its
purchase of a 41 percent stake in American Century Investments
in August.  CIBC said today it agreed to sell its “niche” Hong Kong-
and Singapore-based private wealth management business in a
transaction expected to be completed next year.  CIBC’s investment-banking business earned C$131 million,
down from C$140 million, on a capital markets slump and losses
in a structured credit business that it’s exiting. Underwriting
and advisory fees slipped 11 percent to C$114 million. Trading
revenue rose 18 percent to C$172 million.  Caribbean Banking  The lender’s corporate unit, which includes Caribbean
banking, had profit of C$45 million, down from C$58 million.  CIBC’s exposure to  Europe  was C$6.05 billion at the end of
the quarter, with C$24 million tied to Europe’s so-called
“peripheral countries,” the bank said in a  presentation .  National Bank of Canada (NA) , the country’s sixth-largest
lender, also reported higher profit today on  consumer banking 
and a gain from a sale of an asset manager, beating estimates.
Profit for the Montreal-based lender rose 69 percent to C$553
million, or C$3.22 a share, from C$327 million, or C$1.57 a
share, a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  