-- Citigroup Selling Fund for Japan’s Local Banks to Hedge JGB Risk
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-05-31T03:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/citigroup-selling-fund-for-japan-s-local-banks-to-hedge-jgb-risk.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  started selling a fund
for Japanese regional banks to hedge against the risk of a
decline in the value of their government bond holdings as the
world’s biggest public debt swells.  The U.S. bank is targeting  Japan ’s 106 local lenders and
plans to raise as much as 200 billion yen ($2.5 billion), Manabu Miyamae, the head of regional sales at Citigroup Global Markets
Japan Inc., said in an interview in Tokyo. The fund is the first
of its kind to hedge such risk through yen  interest-rate swaps ,
according to Citigroup, the only distributor of the product.  Regional banks , which held 41.6 trillion yen of Japan’s
 bonds  as of February, are concerned that yields will climb from
a nine-year low as the government considers how to contain debt
that’s more than twice the size of the economy.  Fitch Ratings 
cut Japan’s credit rating on May 22, citing Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda ’s “leisurely” plan for restoring fiscal health.  “Demand for hedging against an increase in  interest rates 
is growing among Japanese regional financial institutions, and
now they’re looking for solutions,” Miyamae said. Citigroup is
also targeting credit associations and trust banks as investors
for the private fund, he said.  The fund, administered by Tokyo-based Simplex Asset
Management Co., will invest in swaps of fixed rates for shorter-
term Japanese government bonds and floating rates for longer-
term notes in an effort to profit when yields rise. Citigroup,
which began offering the products to the lenders today, declined
to say how much it expects to earn in fees.  Falling Yields  Japan’s benchmark bond yields are the world’s second lowest
behind  Switzerland ’s as the central bank eases monetary policy
and investors buy the notes as a haven amid concern Greece may
exit the euro. Ten-year  yields  touched 0.81 percent in Tokyo
today, the lowest since July 2003. Japanese government debt
returned 3 percent in the past year, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show.  Banks have been buying the securities as deposits grow
faster than loans. Local lenders increased their holdings by
about 9 percent in February from a year earlier, according to
data compiled by the Regional Banks Association of Japan and
 Second Association of Regional Banks .  “It will be difficult for regional banks to reduce their
dependence on Japanese  government bonds  for their profits as
deposits are increasing while lending isn’t growing,” Katsunori Nakanishi, head of the Regional Banks Association, said at a
news conference on May 16. “They need to conduct stress tests
and manage the risk,” said Nakanishi, who is also chief
executive officer of regional lender  Shizuoka Bank Ltd. (8355)   ‘Uncharted Territory’  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
says the nation’s debt will head into “uncharted territory”
next year at 223 percent of gross domestic product. Prime
Minister Noda must carry out his plans to double the  sales tax 
to 10 percent by 2014, the Paris-based OECD said on May 22.  Ashikaga Bank Ltd. , based in Tochigi Prefecture north of
 Tokyo , is reluctant to add to its 363.3 billion yen of Japanese
government bonds in the current market environment, said
Hiroyuki Ishikawa, a Tokyo-based deputy manager of the lender’s
treasury and securities division.  “We’re closely watching the extent to which interest rates
will rise,” Ishikawa said in an interview. “We’re collecting
information on hedge products with enthusiasm.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  