-- Clemens’s Ex-Manager Says He Never Suspected Steroid Use
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-31T22:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/clemens-s-ex-manager-says-he-never-suspected-steroid-use.html
Phil Garner said he never suspected
drug use by former Major League Baseball pitcher  Roger Clemens 
during the three years he managed him on the  Houston Astros .  Garner was one of five witnesses who testified today for
the defense at Clemens’s perjury trial in  Washington  federal
court. He told jurors that he had known other players who used
steroids while managing or playing for other teams.  “Did you ever see anything in the way he conducted himself
or how he acted that made you suspect him of using steroids?”
 Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, asked.  “I did not,” Garner said.  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury stemming from his testimony to a House panel
investigating the use of performance-enhancing drugs including
steroids and human growth hormone. The ex- New York  Yankees
pitcher faces as long as 21 months in prison if convicted. He
denies having used the drugs.  Prosecutors, who rested their case May 29, say Clemens
concocted a “web of lies” to hide the fact that he used the
drugs to recover from injury as he aged. The indictment contains
15 allegedly false or misleading statements that Clemens made to
Congress in 2008. Some statements involved denials of drug use;
others had to do with frequency of vitamin B12 injections and
whether Clemens attended a pool party at a teammate’s Florida
home in 1998.  Pool Party  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  on May 29 dismissed two
of the 15 statements that make up the obstruction charge at
Hardin’s request. He said today that he’s considering throwing
out another, regarding the 1998 pool party.  The prosecution’s evidence includes a needle and cotton
with Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for steroids. The
material was given to prosecutors by Brian McNamee, Clemens’s
former trainer. McNamee, who spent six days testifying, told
jurors that he gave the ballplayer injections of steroids and
HGH during the 1998, 2000 and 2001 baseball seasons while both
men worked for the  Toronto Blue Jays  and the Yankees.  McNamee told jurors he saved needles, gauze and vials from
one of the injections in 2001 and kept some of the items in a
Miller Lite beer can that he took from the recycling bin in
Clemens’s apartment.  ‘A Boost’  Clemens’s family physician, Larry Likover, told the jury
today that he gave Clemens injections of B12 from 2004 through
2007 “whenever he felt he needed a boost.” He said he also
gave Clemens samples of anti-inflammatory drug Vioxx.  “He’s an elite athlete and anything that makes an elite
athlete feel better that is legal is good,” Likover testified.  Fanny Gabilanez, a woman who cleaned Clemens’s New York
apartment when he pitched for the Yankees, said she never saw
any needles, vials or beer in Clemens’s apartment.  She also said she never saw a plastic film canister in his
refrigerator. McNamee testified that’s where Clemens kept the
HGH he was using in 2000.  Cheryl Redfern, who gave Clemens massages from 1995 through
the end of 2003, said she never noticed any acne or saw any
change to his upper body over those eight years.  Hardin is also seeking testimony from Eileen McNamee, who
is involved in a divorce proceeding with  Brian McNamee . Hardin
said she’ll discredit the testimony her husband gave.  Prosecutors said today that they would need permission from
the U.S. Justice Department before granting her immunity for her
testimony.  Michael Gold, a lawyer for Eileen McNamee, said the
possible criminal exposure his client faces includes mail and
wire fraud, insurance fraud tied to the reimbursement of
 prescription drugs , bank fraud and obstruction of justice.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 