-- Commodities Head for Worst Loss Since Recession of 2008
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-05-31T20:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/commodities-head-for-worst-loss-since-recession-of-2008.html
Commodities fell, capping the biggest
monthly slump since 2008, as  Europe ’s escalating debt woes
dimmed prospects for demand and drove crude oil into a bear
market.  Costs to protect Spanish  government bonds  with default
swaps rose to a record yesterday, while a Greek poll showed
support for anti-austerity parties before elections next month
that may presage the country’s exit from the euro. First-time
claims for U.S. jobless benefits rose by 10,000 to 383,000 last
week, the government said today. Slower economic growth in  China 
also hurt metal and energy prices in May.  The European crisis is “sending all those economies into
recession, slowing global demand, which is going to impact
Chinese demand, which has by far been one of the largest
commodity consumers out there,” Dan Denbow, a portfolio manager
at the $1.8 billion  USAA Precious Metals and Minerals Fund (USAGX)  in
San Antonio, said in a telephone interview. “Anytime there’s
financial turmoil, that’s going to create lower economic
activity. We’re clearly seeing that in the southern half of the
 euro zone .”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
dropped 1.2 percent to settle at 596.2 at 3:53 p.m.  New York 
time. In May, the gauge tumbled 13 percent, the most since
November 2008. Earlier, the measure touched 594.48, the lowest
since Oct. 6.  Oil Bear  Crude-oil futures for July delivery fell 1.5 percent to
settle at $86.53 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Prices fell 17 percent this month, the biggest slide since
December 2008. Yesterday, the price closed 20 percent below this
year’s highest settlement, signaling a  bear market .  Copper futures for July delivery slipped 0.7 percent to
settle at $3.3655 a pound on the Comex in New York. This month,
the price dropped 12 percent, the most since September.  In May, cotton prices dropped 20 percent, the biggest
decline among GSCI components. Coffee fell 11 percent, the sixth
straight monthly decline, which marks the longest slump in 31
years.  This week, the euro fell to the weakest versus the dollar
in almost two years. Today, the yen climbed to an 11-year high
against the European currency.  Citigroup Inc. has forecast that the euro may decline to
$1.20 in the coming months and reach parity with the dollar in a
year. The existing structure of the euro isn’t sustainable,
according to  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief technical analyst at
Citigroup Global.  Risk Off  “We are seeing a ‘risk-off’ mentality,” said Natalie Robertson, a commodity analyst at  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Sydney. “More pressure may be coming from
Europe, and the other negative factor is the dollar/euro, which
is going to weigh on commodity prices.”  Gold futures fell 6 percent in May, the fourth straight
monthly decline, the longest slump since October 2000. Nineteen
of the GSCI components declined in May.  “Risk assets for the moment, even if they have good
fundamentals, are not being bid with much aggressive behavior
today,” Sterling Smith, a commodity market analyst at Citigroup
Inc.’s institutional client group, said in a telephone interview
from Chicago. “That’s leading to an across-the-board sell-off.
The path of least resistance for most things is lower.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in  Chicago  at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  