-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Climbs to Highest in Four Weeks
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-05-31T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-climbs-to-highest-in-four-weeks.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
climbed to a four-week high as more Americans said their
finances were in better shape.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 39.3 in
the week ended May 27 from minus 42 in the prior period. The
reading was little changed from this year’s average of minus
38.9. All three of its components -- the economy, personal
finances and buying plans -- advanced.  Cheaper prices at the  gas pump  and a recent slowdown in
dismissals may be helping stabilize sentiment, reducing the odds
that spending will falter. At the same time, a recession in
 Europe  threatens to discourage some U.S. companies from
expanding headcounts, inhibiting the wage gains that would lay
the groundwork for a bigger pickup in demand.  “While the recent decline in gasoline prices and slower
pace of initial claims may have bolstered consumer comfort over
the past week, overall sentiment remains in the doldrums,” said
 Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New
York. “Given the looming crisis in Europe and the weak pace of
hiring in the economy, risks to the consumer outlook remain
elevated roughly midway through 2012.”  The number of American applying for unemployment insurance
payment rose to a five-week high, a sign progress in reducing
joblessness may be stalling. First-time claims for jobless
benefits increased by 10,000 to 383,000 last week, Labor
Department figures showed today.  ADP Employment  Companies added fewer workers than forecast in May, a
reminder the job market will take time to strengthen, a private
report based on payrolls showed. The 133,000 increase in
employment followed a revised 113,000 gain the prior month that
was smaller than initially estimated, Roseland, New Jersey-based
ADP Employer Services said. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey called for a May advance of 150,000.  The economy expanded more slowly in the first quarter than
previously estimated, reflecting smaller gains in inventories
and bigger government cutbacks revised Commerce Department
figures showed today. Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.9
percent annual rate from January through March, down from a 2.2
percent prior estimate.  Stocks were little changed after the figures. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,313.73 at
9:36 a.m. in  New York . The yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note fell to 1.60 percent from 1.62 percent late
yesterday.  The Bloomberg measure of Americans’ views of their  personal
finances  climbed to minus 6.4, the highest in five weeks, from
minus 10.8. The 17 percent who said their finances are in
“poor” shape is the fewest since April 22, the survey found.  View of Economy  The index on the current state of the  economy  advanced to
minus 66.5 from minus 68.7, and a measure of whether consumers
consider it a good time to buy climbed to minus 45.1 from minus
46.5.  After increasing 16 points in the first three months of the
year, the overall measure of consumer sentiment gave back 12.2
points in the ensuing six weeks. The past two periods, the index
has climbed 4.3 points.  “The movements mark the uncertain state of consumer
sentiment amid the economic and political crosscurrents of a
still-struggling economy in a presidential election year,” said
 Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New
York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg.  Readings lower than minus 40 are associated with “severe
economic discontent,” he said. Since its inception in December
1985, the gauge has averaged minus 15.4.  Republicans, Democrats  The comfort index has been higher among Democrats than
Republicans for 10 consecutive weeks, beating previous streaks
of six weeks in late 1996 and five weeks in mid-2011. Sentiment
has been 28.9 points lower on average among Democrats versus
Republicans in data since 1990, according to the report.  Sentiment among independent voters improved to minus 40
last week from minus 44.4. Confidence among Democrats and
Republicans also picked up.  The economy and unemployment are defining issues in this
year’s presidential race. Republican  Mitt Romney  has questioned
President  Barack Obama ’s ability to guide the recovery, while
Obama has criticized the former Massachusetts governor for
touting policies that helped trigger the recession.  The comfort index was minus 18 in May 2004 and minus 11 in
May 1996, years in which incumbent presidents were re-elected,
according to the report. This year’s gauge is closer to the
minus 43 recorded in late May 1992, the year  George H.W. Bush 
lost his bid for a second term.  Global Markets  “The key element ahead is not the level of consumer
sentiment, but its trajectory,” Langer said, and that remains
“an open question as the labor market struggles and global
financial uncertainty darkens the horizon.”  Today’s report follows a Conference Board  index  that showed
consumer confidence dropped to a four-month low in May, as
Americans were more pessimistic about jobs.  A sentiment measure from Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan  climbed  this month to its highest since October 2007.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The index can range from 100, indicating every participant
in the survey had positive responses to all three components, to
minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The margin of
error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  