-- Copper Bears Rise to Eight-Month High as Hedge Funds Bet on Drop
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-06-01T16:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/copper-bears-rise-to-eight-month-high-as-hedge-funds-bet-on-drop.html
Copper traders are the most bearish
since September and  hedge funds  are betting on price declines as
concern that Europe’s debt crisis is deepening drove the metal
to the lowest this year.  Eighteen of 33 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
metal to drop next week and six were neutral, the highest
proportion since Sept. 23.  Fund managers  and other speculators
held a net short position of 2,808 U.S. futures and options in
the week ended May 22, from net-long holdings of 4,833 a week
earlier, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. That’s
the first bearish bet since January.  The metal slid the most since September in May as concern
about  Greece ’s future in the euro and spreading of the region’s
crisis grew. Economic confidence in the euro area dropped to the
lowest in 2 1/2 years in May and  consumer confidence  fell to a
four-month low in the U.S., data showed this week, while Chinese
industrial companies’ profits declined in April.  China  accounts
for about 40 percent of global copper use and Europe 18 percent.  “As long as the debt crisis is still in focus,  risk
aversion  will remain high and copper has the potential to go
even lower,” said  Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “Once we get a hard number that Europe will be
in recession, then it might spread out to other regions and
therefore globally.”  Copper Slumps  Copper fell 3.3 percent to $7,353.50 a metric ton this year
on the London Metal Exchange and slumped 12 percent in May. It
slid to $7,301 today, the lowest since Dec. 20. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities slipped 9.6 percent this
year and the MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities lost 2.2
percent. Treasuries returned 2.1 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows.  About $4.5 trillion was wiped from the value of global
 equities  last month and the dollar climbed to the highest level
in almost two years versus the euro as the turmoil in Europe
spread. The European Commission challenged  Germany ’s remedies to
the financial crisis on May 30, calling for direct euro-area aid
for troubled banks. An opinion poll showed May 30 most Greeks
want to see the terms of a financial rescue revised, stoking
fears the nation may default and be forced to exit the euro.  While Germany helped the euro area avoid a second recession
in three years in the first quarter, the  International Monetary
Fund  predicts the region will contract 0.3 percent this year. An
index of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-nation bloc
fell to 90.6 from a revised 92.9 in April, the commission said
May 30. The Conference Board’s U.S. consumer index fell to 64.9
last month from a revised 68.7 in April, May 29 data show.  Global Growth  Chinese industrial companies’ earnings declined 2.2 percent
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on
its website May 27. Still, China’s 8.2 percent growth this year
will help the global economy expand 3.5 percent, the IMF
estimates. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. still expects Chinese demand
to drive copper prices to $9,000 in three months.  Potential production losses may help sustain a supply
shortage estimated by Barclays Plc at 158,000 tons this year.
BHP Billiton Ltd. and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s biggest and
third-biggest mining companies by sales, said last month they’ll
ration  capital spending  because of costs. Codelco, the largest
copper producer, produced 10 percent less metal in the first
quarter as ore-grades decreased.  Thirteen of 28 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
said gold would gain next week and five were neutral. Futures on
the Comex in  New York  rose 2.9 percent $1,612.50 an ounce since
the start of January after climbing the previous 11 years.  Sugar Survey  Five of 13 people surveyed expect raw-sugar prices to climb
next week and the same amount predicted a drop. The sweetener
slipped 18 percent to 19.10 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York this year.  Seventeen of 29 people surveyed anticipate higher corn
prices next week, while 16 of 30 said soybeans will rise. Corn
dropped 13 percent to $5.605 a bushel this year as soybeans
advanced 10 percent to $13.3225 a bushel in Chicago trading.  “I have a hard time seeing commodity prices recovering in
the short term,” said Filip Petersson, an analyst at SEB AB in
 Stockholm . “ Europe  is definitely back in a very difficult
situation that could spin out of control quickly. The question
is if politicians react to that or just try to push the solution
into the future again as we have gotten used to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  