-- Corn Syrup Makers Denied Use of Term ‘Corn Sugar’ in Ads
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/corn-syrup-makers-denied-use-of-term-corn-sugar-in-ads.html
Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , Cargill
Inc. and other makers of high-fructose corn syrup can’t call
their product “corn sugar” in advertisements, U.S. regulators
said.  “Use of the term ‘sugar’ to describe HFCS, a product that
is a syrup, would not accurately identify or describe the basic
nature of the food or its characterizing properties,” Michael Landa, director of the  Food and Drug Administration ’s Center for
Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, said in a  letter  denying the
industry’s petition. Regulations permit use of the term
“sugar” only to describe “solid, dried and crystallized”
foods, he said.  The  Corn Refiners Association , which represents syrup
producers, asked the FDA in September 2010 to approve “corn
sugar” as a term for corn syrup. U.S. Sugar Corp. and other
sugar processors sued the corn-syrup makers in federal court to
stop an ad campaign saying “your body can’t tell the
difference” between granular sugar, or sucrose, and corn syrup.  The FDA in its letter yesterday denied the industry’s
petition on “narrow, technical grounds,” Audrae Erickson, the
president of the Corn Refiners Association, said in a statement.
“They did not address or question the overwhelming scientific
evidence that high fructose corn syrup is a form of sugar and is
nutritionally the same as other sugars.”  Members of the Corn Refiners Association include Decatur,
Illinois-based ADM and closely held Cargill, based in
 Minneapolis .  “The FDA’s ruling represents a victory for American
consumers,” Dan Callister, an attorney for the plaintiffs in
the lawsuit against the syrup makers, said in a statement. “It
reaffirms what most consumer advocates, health experts and
policy officials have been saying all along: only sugar is
sugar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  