-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Rise as Jobless Claims Increase
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-31T20:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-jobless-claims-increase.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
climbed for a second day as the number of Americans applying for
 unemployment benefits  rose last week to a one-month high.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 1 basis point to a mid-price of
123.3 basis points at 4:33 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest level since May 18 for
the index. Contracts tied to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  climbed by the
most in three weeks.  The index rose as the Labor Department said jobless claims
in the U.S. increased by 10,000 to 383,000 in the week ended May
26. The barometer pared most of its rise after a Greek opinion
poll showed the nation’s biggest pro-bailout party was leading
going into elections on June 17.  “It’s going to be extraordinarily volatile through the
Greek elections,” said Mark Alexandridis, a portfolio manager
at First Principles Capital Management, overseeing about $7.9
billion in fixed-income assets. “Not only do you have this
unstable situation in Europe but also tepid numbers coming out
of the U.S.”  The Labor Department initially reported the prior week’s
applications at 370,000. Last week’s claims were the highest
since 392,000 in the week ended April 21.  Opinion Poll  In  Greece , the latest opinion poll conducted by Marc SA for
Athens-based Alpha TV, contradicts a poll for Epikaira Magazine
yesterday which showed the anti-bailout party Syriza in the
lead.  The cost to protect against losses on the debt of JPMorgan
rose by the most since May 11. Credit-default swaps on the New
York-based bank increased 12.4 basis points to 156.3 basis
points at 4:38 p.m., Bloomberg prices show.  The swaps gauge typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  