-- Crown in War of Attrition, Says Echo Chairman John Story
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-06-01T06:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/crown-in-war-of-attrition-says-echo-chairman-john-story.html
Crown Ltd. (CWN)  Chairman  James Packer  is
waging a “war of attrition” to control Sydney’s only casino
operator,  Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP) , its chairman said as
the Australian billionaire seeks to oust him from the board.  Echo, which also has three casinos in Queensland state,
won’t accept Crown’s nominee to the board and allow it to gain
influence without paying, Chairman John Story said by phone from
Sydney yesterday.  Packer, whose company is Echo’s biggest  shareholder  with a
10 percent stake, blamed Story for “a period of serious
underperformance” and asked investors to remove him in a May 30
statement. Crown, with casinos in Melbourne and Perth, asked
regulators for permission to increase its holding, spurring
analysts at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, UBS AG and Macquarie
Group Ltd. to speculate that Echo will become a takeover target.  “It’s corporate governance 101” not to let the nominee of
a competitor onto Echo’s board, Story said. Crown is engaged in
“a war of attrition designed to make life as difficult as
possible for the board and the company until people get tired
and hand over control without paying a premium,” he said.  Echo  shares fell  0.9 percent to A$4.36 at the close in
Sydney today after it announced A$40 million ($39 million) of
writedowns to its full-year profit before tax.  Matthew Ryan, a Sydney-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., cut his rating on Echo to neutral from overweight after the
company announced the charges.  Shares of Melbourne-based Crown fell 1.5 percent to A$8.35
while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index declined 0.3 percent.  Shareholders Meeting  Packer called for a special shareholders meeting in the
statement last month and sought the appointment of Jeff Kennett,
former premier of Victoria state, to the company’s board. Echo
will hold the meeting July 20, the company said in a statement
yesterday.  “Obviously if someone thinks they can extract better value
than we can out of the assets, and are prepared to pay the
required premium, we would engage,” Story said.  In a statement released after the market closed yesterday,
Echo said it would write off A$29.9 million as a result of the
liquidation of SilkStar Global Marketing Ltd., a company acting
as an agent for high-rolling Asian gamblers, and would take a
A$10 million charge as part of its cost-cutting program.  Those writedowns amount to 23 percent of Echo’s estimated
profits before tax in the year ending June 30. The company is
expected to earn A$177 million before tax, according to the
consensus of 11  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Trading “remained difficult” as weak consumer sentiment
and demand crimped sales, with  revenue  excluding the company’s
VIP business up 3.1 percent from a year earlier as of May 28,
Echo said.  Packer’s shares in Crown,  Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd. (CMJ) 
and  Ten Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN)  are worth $3.8 billion today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He did not immediately
respond to a call left at his Sydney office seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  