-- Danish Mortgage Haven Debt Exposes Flaws in Basel Attack
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-05-31T13:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/danish-mortgage-haven-debt-exposes-flaws-in-basel-attack.html
Denmark ’s mortgage bonds have won
haven status as investors dump assets tainted by Europe’s crisis
and flock to the safest markets. The development suggests the
bonds are more resilient to turmoil than global regulators say.  The Nykredit Mortgage Bond Index, which tracks the largest
and most traded series in Denmark’s $450 billion bond-backed
home-loan market, surged to a record yesterday. The bonds have
outperformed U.S. Treasury debt with maturities longer than one
year since the end of September 2008, when the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. sent global capital markets into a
tailspin.  The fate of the covered bonds, which back most of Denmark’s
home loans, remains unclear. European regulators are still
working to adapt proposals by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , which judges the securities to be less liquid than
sovereign debt. Investors have shrugged off the warnings and
foreign holdings of the bonds have climbed 39 percent since
2008, the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks estimates.  “It supports our case and it also underlines how grotesque
it is that we’re trying to persuade international regulators
that these papers are as safe and as liquid as sovereign debt,”
said Jesper Berg, head of ratings and regulatory affairs at
Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s largest mortgage lender and Europe’s
biggest issuer of covered bonds backed by home loans.  Faced Criticism  Basel’s original proposal in December 2010 sought to cap
banks’ use of mortgage assets for their liquid reserves to 40
percent of the total, with a 15 percent so-called hair-cut. In
July, the European Commission said the bonds could be granted
the same liquidity status as sovereign assets if they pass
tests. The industry is still waiting to learn how those tests
will be structured.  Inside Denmark, the mortgage industry has also faced
criticism. The central bank has warned that interest-only loans
destabilize the economy by triggering swings in  house prices .
Lenders, too, are growing overly reliant on short-term funding
to back long-term home loans after the securities grew to make
up about half the market, it said.  “There is a refinancing risk,” central bank Governor Nils Bernstein said in an interview. “It is highly unlikely, but if
the risk materializes, it can have significant consequences.”  Still, the central bank isn’t ready to step in and push
politicians to ban the loans, Bernstein said. Mortgage lenders
are taking steps on their own to address the risks, and more
time is needed to see whether they work, he said.  ‘Fast Enough?’  “Are they doing it fast enough? Let’s wait and see,”
Bernstein said. “I am not ready to urge the government to step
in.”  The concerns have been echoed by Moody’s Investors Service,
which was fired by Nykredit in April. The rater has downgraded
much of Denmark’s mortgage industry amid refinancing risks and
late yesterday cut Nykredit another three steps to Baa2.  Mortgage banks are at risk because of their exposure to
declines in the housing market, Moody’s said.  Home prices , which
have dropped more than 20 percent since peaking in 2007, will
decline a further 5.5 percent this year, the government
estimates.  Yet mortgage bonds have grown in popularity as Denmark’s
government debt and currency, which is pegged to the euro,
become investor havens from the debt crisis. That’s pushed
sovereign borrowing costs down to record lows, and even sent the
yield on Denmark’s two-year note below zero.  Yield Slump  The yield on Nykredit’s 2 percent note due April 2013 sank
to a low of 0.5788 percent yesterday. The note is rated AAA at
Standard and Poor’s and Aa1 at Moody’s.  Nykredit’s Mortgage Bond Index touched 394.66 points
yesterday, the highest since the gauge was created in 1993. The
index has returned 32 percent since the end of September 2008,
compared with 24 percent for U.S. Treasuries with maturities
longer than one year, including re-invested interest.  The mortgage securities are at least as liquid as Danish
sovereign bonds, said Jesper Lund, a finance professor at
Copenhagen Business School who is doing a comparative study of
the country’s fixed-income markets.  “There’s not much difference,” Lund said in an interview,
citing his study findings. Mortgage bonds are “highly valuable
for liquidity management for companies that don’t want to put
their money in a bank that might fail next year,” he said.  ‘Quite Amazing’  “It’s quite amazing how far rates have been pushed down,
and it really shows how safe the securities are deemed to be,”
Berg said. “However, clearly rate movements are influenced by
what’s going on in some of  Europe ’s most stressed sovereign
markets.”  The government of Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt
last week cut its budget deficit targets for 2012 and 2013. The
public shortfall will shrink to 1.7 percent of gross domestic
product next year from 3.8 percent in 2012, the  Finance Ministry 
said on May 25. That compares with European Union averages of
3.6 percent this year and 3.3 percent in 2013, the European
Commission said on May 11.  Denmark is one of only 12 nations left still ranked AAA by
the three major ratings companies, and pays about 17 basis
points less than  Germany  to borrow for 10 years. The yield on
its benchmark 2021 note dropped to a record low of 1.10 percent
this week.  Popular Bonds  Fixed-income markets in the Nordic nation have grown in
popularity even as Denmark struggles to emerge from a burst real
estate bubble and regional banking crisis. Five banks have
collapsed since house prices plunged from their 2007 peak,
putting sending the economy into a recession in the second half
of last year.  “The situation in  Greece  has once again sent shock waves
through the financial sector,” Lise Bergmann, a Copenhagen-
based economist at Nordea Kredit, said yesterday in a note.  Danish mortgage bonds differ from other countries in
several respects: lenders convert loans into a security of the
same amount that is then sold to investors. Prices are available
in newspapers. Interest and principle payments accrue directly
to investors. Mortgage issuers charge borrowers a fee to cover
costs, and provide additional collateral if property values fall
below loan values. Borrowers bear the interest-rate risk,
issuers bear a credit risk in the event of a borrower default.  Higher Costs  “There are parts of the suggestions” from regulators
“that would mean higher costs to the lenders from the Danish
mortgage system without providing extra safety in the system, as
it is already safe as can be,” Anne Jensen, one of Denmark’s
European Parliament representatives, said in an interview.  Mortgage banks have had to put up 110 billion kroner in
additional collateral since the country’s real estate bubble
burst in 2007, according to data provided by the Association of
Danish Mortgage Banks and the Danish Mortgage Banks’ Federation.  Property values will continue to fall through 2013, the
government-backed Economic Council said May 29, putting further
pressure on lenders to go to the  capital markets  for
supplementary collateral.  “The biggest challenge right now is the regulatory one,”
Lund said. “It’s unavoidable that there will be more
regulations in the coming years. The question is whether it will
be good or bad regulations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net . 