-- Danish Central Bank Says Negative Rates an Option
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-31T14:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/danish-central-bank-says-negative-rates-an-option.html
Denmark’s central bank lowered its
 benchmark rate  by 0.15 of a percentage point, easing policy for
the second time this month to defend the Nordic country’s
currency peg to the euro.  The main lending rate was cut to 0.45 percent from a
record-low 0.6 percent, the Copenhagen-based bank said in a
today. The rate it offers on certificates of deposit was reduced
to 0.05 percent from 0.2 percent while its current account rate
was lowered to zero. The bank doesn’t hold scheduled meetings
and adjusts rates to counter pressure on the krone.  Denmark’s debt yield have sunk to record lows as investors
fleeing the euro area turn to markets backed by fiscal
discipline. Demand for kroner helped send two-year yields below
zero this week as investors pay the government to hold its
bonds. The central bank signaled last week it is willing to let
rates go negative to defend the peg.  “Should investors continue to seek safety in Danish bonds,
or if the  European Central Bank  lowers rates, the Danish bank
will cut rates so that they become negative,” said Jacob Graven, chief economist at Sydbank A/S, in a note. “That would
mean Danish banks will need to pay to place money in the central
bank. That’s becoming increasingly likely to happen in the
coming weeks.”  Smaller Deficit  The government of Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt on
May 25 predicted a smaller  budget deficit  for this year than
announced in December. The shortfall will shrink to 1.7 percent
of gross domestic product next year, well within the European
Union’s 3 percent threshold, it said.  The central bank has an agreement with the European Central
Bank to let the krone appreciate or depreciate no more than 2.25
percent from a central rate of 7.46038. The krone hit a seven-
year low of 7.4306 kroner to the euro on May 25, when the
central bank last cut the rate to 0.6 percent.  Denmark will outgrow the euro-region average this year and
next even as the Nordic country fights to contain the fallout of
a burst property bubble and regional banking crisis. Gross
domestic product will expand 0.8 percent this year and 1.4
percent in 2013, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said May 22. That compares with a 0.1 percent
contraction in the 17-member euro region in 2012 and 0.9 percent
growth next year, according to the Paris-based organization.  The government said this month its deficit will narrow to
3.8 percent this year, versus a December forecast for 5.5
percent of gross domestic product.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  