-- Dating Shanghai-Style Draws 38,000 Hopefuls as Weddings Fall
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-01T04:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/dating-shanghai-style-draws-38-000-hopefuls-as-birth-rate-falls.html
Zhang Peijuan, 58, scans the
thousands of young men and women gathered in  Shanghai ’s Expo
Park, looking for an eligible bachelor.  “He should have a college degree, be about 1.75 meters
tall, and property is a must,” says the curly-haired, retired
researcher, who is shopping for a husband for her daughter and
carries three photos of the 28-year-old in her handbag. “Young
people these days work too hard. When I see someone I think my
daughter may like, I approach him for his contact.”  Zhang was among 38,000 singles and concerned parents at
Shanghai’s largest matchmaking event last weekend, as the city
seeks to revive a birth rate that has collapsed to almost half
the level in Japan. China’s richest city, leading financial
center and largest port will see marriage registrations fall 17
percent this year, according to official estimates.  “Shanghai is at the frontier of these broad social changes
and this is what is happening across urban  China ,” said Wang
Feng, Beijing-based director for the  Brookings-Tsinghua  Center
for Public Policy. “We will see it spread.”  China faces an urban shift that will shrink the pool of
factory workers who sustain economic growth and expand the ranks
of the elderly, pushing up health-care and pension costs. Higher
education levels, a focus on careers, and greater expectations
are causing city-dwellers to marry later and have fewer children.  The falling birth rate, exacerbated by China’s three-
decade-old one-child policy, will cut the number of 15- to 24-
year-olds, the mainstay of factories, by 27 percent to 164
million by 2025, the United Nations estimates. In that time,
those over the age of 65 will surge 78 percent to 195 million.  Urban Frontier  Shanghai’s fertility rate -- the number of children the
average woman in the city will bear over her lifetime -- was
0.79 in the year ended October 2010, about half the national
level, government statistics show. That compares with the 1.42
rate for  Japan  and 2.08 in the U.S.  China’s labor force is already shrinking. The number of
people aged between 15 and 64 declined by 0.1 percentage point
last year to 74.4 percent of the population, the first
contraction in 10 years, according to the official Xinhua News
Agency.  That’s likely to increase costs for companies in China,
deterring  investment  and weighing on an economy that may expand
at the slowest pace in 13 years in 2012. Wages for urban workers
at private enterprises climbed 12 percent last year to 24,556
 yuan  ($3,852), the National Bureau of Statistics said on May 29.  Investment Shift  A survey released this week showed more than a fifth of
European Union companies in China said they are considering
shifting investments out of the country to developing economies
including those in  Southeast Asia  and  South America , due in part
to rising wage bills. A separate survey of their U.S.
counterparts showed two-thirds of respondents said price
pressures from labor and inflation were increasing.  In Shanghai the number of couples tying the knot in the
first four months of the year fell 10 percent to 41,282,
according to the  Shanghai Civil Affairs Bureau . Registrations
for 2012 are forecast to fall to 120,000 pairs.  Better education has given more women the desire to choose
their own partner, said Juemin Zhou, director of the Shanghai
Matchmaking Trade Association, the main organizer of the event.  “In the past, women were matchmade by their parents,”
said Zhou. “Then, it didn’t matter how old you were, or if your
partner was blind in one eye, you still had to get married. Now,
if you don’t find someone suitable, you just don’t settle.”  Older Women  Higher learning breeds higher expectations, and the group
of well-educated, older, unmarried women has swelled in the last
two years, Zhou said.  The number of single Shanghai women in their late 20s
tripled in the last 15 years, to almost one in three, according
to the Brookings-Tsinghua Center for Public Policy. Nearly 40
percent of college-educated women between 25 and 34 in the city
were unmarried in 2005, the center said. That’s compared with 6
percent for women with only junior-school education.  “Both men and women tend to look 45 degrees upwards when
searching for a partner,” said Gong Haiyan, co-chief executive
officer of China’s largest online dating agency,  Jiayuan.com (DATE) ,
with 62 million members. “Everyone thinks he deserves someone
better than he actually is.”  When Gong founded the website nine years ago, female
customers listed owning a house as one of the nice-to-haves. Now
it’s almost the main criteria, she said.  Home Truth  “The first thing they look for is if you have a decent job,
what is your salary like, if you have an apartment,” said
Hansen Huang, 34, from Anhui province, who has worked in
Shanghai’s information technology industry for 12 years. “Women
are looking for a partner who can provide so they can live
relatively comfortably.”  With a friendly smile, checked shirt and glasses, Huang
came to the fair with a friend “to give myself a chance,” he
said with a chuckle. As he talked about the kind of girl he
wanted -- 24 to 28 years old and 1.6 to 1.7 meters tall -- two
sets of parents came up to speak to him.  Like Huang, many in the crowd are from other parts of China,
a reflection of how Shanghai and other urban centers are making
up for the decline in births. While Shanghai’s population has
risen 38 percent to 23 million in the decade to 2010, the number
of migrants has almost tripled to about 9 million, accounting
for most of the increase, according to the last national census.  Feather Boas  About 2,000 couples were successfully matched at last
year’s event, according to Zhou. This year, parents studied
profiles of single men and women in dozens of matchmaking booths
around the park, one decorated with pink feather boas. A typical
poster read: 1.67 meter female working in a research field, born
in 1983, looking for 1.77 meter male born after 1977.  To improve visibility in the throng, one father holds up a
badminton racket with his daughter’s details on a piece of paper
fastened to the top, and a profile of her ideal mate below.  While some women look to marry later, social expectations
for a younger bride remain. A survey by Jiayuan.com in Shanghai
this year categorized women over 29 as “leftovers.”  “Women can be very picky when they’re young,” said Huang.
“But if you don’t sell when it commands the highest value, you
may miss the golden opportunity. There are so many women for us
men to choose from. We really have no reason to pick a 28-year-
old when you can find a 26-year-old.”  --Liza Lin and  Michael Wei . Editors: Adam Majendie, Shiyin Chen  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  