-- Davis to Get $44.3 Million Bonus as Glencore-Xstrata CEO
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-05-31T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/davis-to-get-44-3-million-bonus-as-glencore-xstrata-ceo.html
Mick Davis , the 54-year-old South
African former cricket umpire, will receive a 28.8 million-pound
($44.4 million) bonus over three years for taking the job of
chief executive officer at Glencore  Xstrata (XTA)  Plc.  Davis, who’s headed Xstrata Plc since 2001 and increased
its market value more than 80 times, will get an annual
“retention award” of 9.6 million pounds for staying after a
takeover by Glencore International Plc, Xstrata said yesterday.
Seventy-three senior managers and executives may share as much
as 250 million pounds under incentives and stock-performance
plans, the mining company said.  The payments, which would make Davis the best-remunerated 
mining CEO, may pose a hurdle to the deal after 36.5 percent 
of Xstrata investors voted against the directors’ pay report 
last month.  Glencore (GLEN)  and Xstrata agreed to an all-share
combination in February to create the fourth-biggest mining
company. Glencore’s bid values the 66 percent of Xstrata it
doesn’t already own at 18.6 billion pounds.  “Shareholders don’t like pay just for showing up, the
preference is for pay to be linked to performance,”  Jeff Largey , a mining analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London, said
by phone. “There’s been momentum in recent shareholder votes
and I would expect that to persist, but at this point if you’re
a shareholder of Xstrata you’re pretty much in favor of the deal
going through.”  Holders of Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata will vote on
Glencore’s bid and the incentives on July 12. A threshold of 50
percent approval on the payments is required for them to pass,
while 75 percent is needed to confirm the merger.  ‘Carefully Considered’  Xstrata agreed to the takeover after Baar, Switzerland-
based Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded commodities
supplier, offered 2.8 of its shares for each of Xstrata’s.
Shareholders of Glencore vote on July 11.  Xstrata “considered very carefully the management
incentive arrangements for the merger, particularly in light of
the heightened public debate about executive remuneration,”
Chairman  John Bond  said in a statement yesterday. Two-thirds of
Davis’s incentive bonus will be paid in cash, the rest in stock.  Glencore said the incentives are designed to “ensure
Xstrata shareholders’ interests are reflected in the combined
group to balance the influence of Glencore management,”
according to a prospectus posted on its website.  ‘Eye Catching’  “While these payments are eye-catching, they’re not going
to be enough of an obstacle to prevent shareholders from voting
in favor of the deal,” Macquarie’s Largey said. “It definitely
does show how Glencore views Xstrata management as key to the
success of this merger. They are getting paid a pretty handsome
sum.”  Xstrata paid Davis 2.86 million pounds in base salary and
bonus last year, compared with the 2.82 million pounds  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  paid CEO Marius Kloppers, the 1.01 million pounds
Rio Tinto Group CEO Tom Albanese got and the 2.13 million pounds
paid to  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  CEO  Cynthia Carroll , a UBS AG
comparison published May 16 shows.  Ivan Glasenberg, the Glencore CEO who will be Davis’s
deputy, was paid a salary of 925,000 pounds. About 13.6 percent
of shareholders also opposed the re-election of Glasenberg as an
Xstrata director at the May 1 vote.  Davis will be paid a salary of 1.5 million pounds at the
combined company, Glencore said yesterday.  Shares of both companies have slumped 23 percent since
their agreement was announced Feb. 7. That’s cut the value of
the offer for the Xstrata shares that Glencore doesn’t own from
a high of 26.4 billion pounds on Feb. 3, when Xstrata confirmed
an approach, to as low as 18.6 billion pounds yesterday.  Merger Fees  Glencore declined 1.3 percent to close at 340.5 pence in
London trading prior to the release of the merger documents.
Xstrata fell 1.8 percent to 922.5 pence.  Glencore is paying as much as $80 million in fees on the
transaction, while Xstrata’s bill will be as much as $116
million, a document on the merger published by the companies
shows. Glencore is working with Citigroup Inc. and Morgan
Stanley as financial advisers, while Xstrata has tapped Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and
Nomura Bank International Plc.  The commodities trader has faced calls from Xstrata
investors including  Schroders Plc (SDR) , Fidelity Worldwide Investment
and  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  to increase its bid for Xstrata, the
largest exporter of coal burned by power stations. Glasenberg,
55, has rebuffed those arguments, saying in a March 5 interview
he was a “little lost” at expectations of a raised offer.  Blocking Vote  Glencore won’t be allowed to vote its holding in Xstrata on
the merger, according to the U.K.’s takeover code, putting a
final decision into the hands of the shareholders who control
the rest of the company. That means about 16 percent of
Xstrata’s holders have the power to block the deal.  The chances of Glencore completing the takeover have
increased after Qatar Investment Authority spent more than $3
billion buying a 9.5 percent stake in Xstrata since the deal was
announced, Jefferies Group Inc. said May 10. Still, Qatar may
not support the deal “at any cost,” Societe Generale SA
analysts wrote in a report May 30.  “We still believe that, in the short term, the risk/reward
opportunity for Xstrata shareholders has more or less
evaporated,” Alain William and Abhi Shukla wrote in the Societe
Generale report. “We still expect Glencore and Xstrata’s
friendly all-share merger agreement to proceed at, or very close
to, the agreed merger ratio.”  Zinc, Copper  The companies yesterday reaffirmed estimated cost savings
of about $500 million as a result of the combination, mostly
from marketing operations.  They “continue to expect to receive all relevant merger
approvals” to complete the deal by the third quarter, Xstrata
said. Glencore said it’s yet to make a formal filing with the
European Commission, which would then start the so-called Phase
1 period of 25 days of studying the combination. If the
commission refers it to a so-called “Phase 2” investigation,
the merger will lapse, Glencore said.  A combined Glencore and Xstrata will have operations and
projects in 33 countries with 101 mines and more than 50
metallurgical facilities. It will have about 130,000 workers.  Davis grew up in  South Africa ’s Eastern Cape, where he
became the country’s youngest qualified cricket umpire. He
graduated with a bachelor’s degree from Rhodes University,
before becoming an accountant.  When he joined Xstrata in 2001, it had a market value of
about $500 million and about the same level of debt. Within two
months of his arrival, the company had to seek a waiver from
banks on its debt covenants. Xstrata now has a market value of
27.7 billion pounds and posted 2011 sales of $33.9 billion.
Under Davis, it has gone from having a staff of fewer than 2,500
to a workforce exceeding 70,000 in 20 countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  