-- David Bouley, Charlie Trotter to Cook for Disabled Kids
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/david-bouley-charlie-trotter-to-cook-for-disabled-kids.html
When  Wine Spectator  magazine called
Charlie Trotter’s the world’s best restaurant for food and wine
service in 1998, it didn’t just certify the chef behind the
Chicago eatery.  It also helped reveal the quiet philanthropy that Charlie Trotter had been pursuing, such as cooking in people’s homes for
charity.  “You don’t set out doing things like that,” said Trotter,
who received the  James Beard Foundation ’s Humanitarian of the
Year award earlier this month. “You do it because you want to
make a difference.”  Trotter’s philanthropy has ranged from feeding the poor in
the restaurant’s neighborhood to making dishes for fundraisers
hosted by nonprofits such as the  Make-a-Wish Foundation  and
 Meals on Wheels Chicago . His  Charlie Trotter Culinary Education
Foundation  has raised more than $3 million for students seeking
culinary careers.  After a 25-year run, Trotter will close his restaurant on
Aug. 31 to take a break from the food business. He will enter
the  University of Chicago  this autumn to study philosophy.  Before that, however, he will help his longtime friend
 David Bouley  stage a charity dinner Monday night at the Bouley
Test Kitchen in Manhattan.  The two master chefs have developed a culinary kinship over
the years. Bouley started his eponymous Manhattan restaurant in
1987, the year Charlie Trotter’s opened its doors. They have
shared techniques and have cooked and eaten in each other’s
restaurant kitchens.  Disabled Children  The $400-a-person event for about 60 diners will aid  New
Alternatives for Children , a New York nonprofit that helps
families care for their disabled or chronically ill children.
Bouley’s wife, the artist, photographer and Tribeca Film
Festival founder Nicole Bartelme, is a supporter of the
organization.  “We thought this would be a great event to complement all
the efforts he’s made through charity and to engage his  New York 
clientele,” Bouley said in a phone interview. “This is an
industry of sharing, spirit and celebration, and we wanted to
celebrate the time he’s taking.”  About 60 percent of Trotter’s patrons live outside the
Chicago area. Ray Harris, a New York-based investment banker who
has eaten more than 400 times at his restaurant, is expected to
attend Monday’s fundraiser, Trotter said.  Bouley said they will figure out the menu after seeing
what’s on offer from the farmers and fishermen who supply his
restaurant.  ‘Blooming Right Now’  “We’re definitely looking at products that are blooming
right now, and we’ll wait for Mother Nature to tell us what’s
available,” Bouley said. “We’re going to create a lot of
things that Charlie likes.”  Trotter said he will bring eight  chefs  with him to the test
kitchen. His sommeliers will also join him, including Larry
Stone, the only U.S.-born sommelier to have earned the title of
French master sommelier from the  Union de la Sommellerie
Francaise .  (The fundraiser for New Alternatives hosted by Trotter and
Bouley is Monday at 6:30 p.m. at the Bouley Test Kitchen, 88
West Broadway (at Chambers Street) in  Manhattan . Tickets are
$400. Information:  http://www.davidbouley.com  or +1-212-964-
2525).  (Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 