-- Defaults May Loom on California Redevelopment Agency Debt
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-05-31T04:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/defaults-may-loom-on-california-redevelopment-agency-debt.html
As many as 100 municipalities that
took over bond obligations when California erased redevelopment
agencies may not get the  tax revenue  they’re counting on
tomorrow to make payments, the state Finance Department said.  Such cities and counties may face cash-flow constraints
that eventually may threaten defaults, said  Matt McCleary , a
project manager at Rosenow Spevacek Group Inc. The Santa Ana
firm is advising about 35 cities on redevelopment issues.  About 400 redevelopment agencies that helped finance
projects to overcome blight were dissolved Feb. 1 by Governor
 Jerry Brown  to redirect more than $1 billion of their funds to
help fill a budget gap. Bonds for the projects were to be repaid
with increased property-tax revenue from the revitalized areas.  “It’s a sector where investors have always been
skeptical,” said Eric Friedland, director of municipal research
at  Schroders Plc (SDR) ’s investment management unit in  New York , which
oversees about $2 billion in municipal debt. “It’s a sector
that’s always carried more risk in the muni world. What this has
done is make it an even more risky sector.”  The Finance Department set a May 15  deadline  for so-called
successor agencies to submit plans for repaying redevelopment
bondholders and other creditors. Local assessors will be
directed to withhold property taxes normally distributed to
local governments if they don’t have approved plans by June 1,
the department warned.  Many Plans Set  As of yesterday, 302 successor agencies had their repayment
plans approved, said H.D. Palmer, a Finance Department
spokesman.  The state is racing to approve pending plans from 69 more
agencies submitted in the past few days, Palmer said by e-mail.  “It is very easy to believe that all real obligations
(bonds) as determined by the state will indeed be paid off on
time and on schedule,” McCleary said by e-mail. “However,
because of local (internal) cash-flow issues and the way cities
structured their budgets, the reality is many enforceable
obligations may not get paid in their entirety this fall.”  California  lawmakers and Brown dissolved the redevelopment
agencies effective Feb. 1 to help balance the budget. At the
time, Brown aides said $30 billion in outstanding redevelopment
debt would be repaid, mainly by cities and counties that wound
up with the former agencies’ assets.  Post-Deadline Filings  Finance Department officials are working overtime to
process paperwork submitted after the May 15 deadline, Palmer
said. Most cities and counties will have enough money in reserve
to meet obligations to bondholders, even if property taxes are
temporarily withheld, he said.  “The deadlines have been clear since the first week of
March,” Palmer said by telephone. He couldn’t identify the
redevelopment agencies for which successor plans haven’t been
submitted.  While cities have known of the need to get a repayment
schedule approved by the Finance Department, some were left
shorthanded after the dissolution of the redevelopment agencies
caused them to fire employees, said  Chris McKenzie , executive
director of the League of California Cities.  Many cities and counties will continue to negotiate with
the state for “weeks and months,” McKenzie said by e-mail.
Some bond payments and credit ratings may be jeopardized in the
meantime, unless funds are set aside to make the payments.  While bondholders are protected by state and federal law
guaranteeing payments, some are cautious about the unwinding of
the redevelopment agencies, said Schroder’s Friedland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  