-- Ackermann Ending Decade at Deutsche Bank Says Markets Muted
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-05-31T11:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/deutsche-bank-s-ackermann-says-financial-markets-remain-muted-.html
Josef Ackermann , who ends a 10-year
reign as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s chief executive officer today, said
financial market activity remains “muted” as Europe’s debt
crisis and a slowdown in  Germany  and  Asia  threaten to damp the
global economy.  “Companies in what has been our previously very robust
home market, Germany, have been lowering their expectations,”
he said in a speech at the bank’s annual shareholder meeting in
Frankfurt. “Financial market activity remains muted.”  Ackermann, 64, is stepping down after leading Deutsche Bank
through the 2008 financial crisis without direct government aid
and transforming Germany’s biggest lender into an international
investment bank. The Swiss-born banker, who has counseled
European political leaders in their efforts to save the euro,
hands over to Anshu Jain, the head of the investment bank, and
Germany CEO Juergen Fitschen.  Deutsche Bank is changing leaders as concern that Greece
will exit the currency union sends tremors through  Europe ’s
financial system. The euro has declined to the lowest against
the dollar in almost two years.  Grounds for Concern  “The economic conditions, debt levels and the lack of will
to carry out reform in a few countries of the euro zone continue
to give rise to concern,” Ackermann said.  The sovereign debt crisis has dented the bank’s earnings.
Deutsche Bank said on April 26 that business conditions worsened
in April amid a lower appetite for risk from clients. The lender
announced 500 job cuts in October after scrapping its operating
pretax profit forecast of 10 billion euros ($12.4 billion) for
2011, citing a “significant and unabated slowdown in client
activity.” That program has been completed, Chief Financial
Officer  Stefan Krause  said on April 26.  Deutsche Bank surpassed  France ’s BNP Paribas SA last year
to become Europe’s largest bank, with assets equivalent to more
than 80 percent of the German economy.  ‘Well Prepared’  The German bank “is well prepared” for adverse conditions
thanks to the breadth of its businesses, Ackermann said.  In addition to building out the investment bank, over the
last three years, Ackermann oversaw the acquisition of German
consumer lender  Deutsche Postbank AG (DPB) , wealth manager Sal.
Oppenheim Group and part of ABN Amro Holding NV to add
businesses with less volatile revenues than  investment banking .  The share price decline of almost 60 percent during his
decade in charge, compared with an almost 70 percent drop in the
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index over the
same period. Deutsche Bank gained 1.1 percent to 29.15 euros as
of 12:28 p.m. in Frankfurt trading.  ECB Loans  The  European Central Bank  flooded banks with more than 1
trillion euros in low-cost three-year loans in December and
February to head off a credit crunch, encourage lending to
companies and households, and spur demand for unsecured bank
debt.  Banks tightened credit standards much less in the first
quarter than in the previous three months and expect more demand
for corporate loans in the second quarter, an ECB survey showed
on April 25. Deutsche Bank tapped the ECB for a “small amount”
for some businesses in continental Europe, Krause said on April
26.  Deutsche Bank reduced its net risks related to Greek
sovereign bonds to 94 million euros at the end of March from 1.6
billion euros at the end of 2010 by taking part in  Greece ’s debt
swap and allowing notes to mature, according to company
presentations on the Frankfurt-based bank’s website.  Spanish Debt  The lender had 1.9 billion euros in Italian sovereign debt,
1.4 billion euros in Spanish sovereign bonds, 350 million euros
in Irish sovereign debt and 189 million euros in Portuguese
state debt as of March 31, according to a company presentation.  Ackermann defended Deutsche Bank’s target of generating a
25 percent return on equity, which he said was criticized by
some in Germany as a “sign of greed.”  “We never considered the 25 percent figure as an end in
itself,” he said in his speech to shareholders. “We simply
wanted to be as profitable as the best banks in the world. This
was and is the only way for us to successfully compete at the
global level over the long term and for Germany to retain the
global bank it deserves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annette Weisbach in  Frankfurt  at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  