-- Deutsche Boerse Signs Up Seven Banks for Rate Clearing
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-05-31T13:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/deutsche-boerse-signs-up-seven-banks-for-rate-clearing.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  plans to sign up
seven of the largest dealers, including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , to its new clearing service for over-the-
counter interest-rate swaps as it seeks to compete with
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.  Eurex Clearing, a unit of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse,
said it will enter into agreements with Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan,
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , Citigroup Inc.,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  The new clearing service will be
called EurexOTC Clear, the exchange said in a statement today.
The product will be ready by the beginning of July and the
exchange expects to roll it out in the second half of the year.  Regulators globally are pushing for more OTC derivatives to
be processed by clearinghouses to reduce systemic risk.
LCH.Clearnet, the largest clearinghouse for interest-rate swaps,
and  Deutsche Boerse ’s Eurex Clearing operate as central
counterparties for every buy and sell order executed by their
members, who post collateral, reducing the threat from a
trader’s default.  The European Union plans to identify which derivatives must
be cleared by the start of next year, through its  European
Market Infrastructure Regulation.  EurexOTC Clear “will integrate the clearing and
collateralization of OTC and listed derivatives in a single
clearinghouse under a single framework,” Peter Lenardos, an
exchange analyst at RBC Capital Markets said in a note to
investors. “Today’s news reaffirms our positive stance on the
company and we are pleased that Deutsche Boerse is positioning
its business to take advantage of regulatory change.”  The exchange holds an analyst and investor day tomorrow.  NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse reverted to expanding
their existing operations after the European Commission blocked
their combination in February. Deutsche Boerse agreed to buy the
operator of the  New York  Stock Exchange in a deal valued at
$9.53 billion when it was announced in February 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  