-- Dimon $2 Billion Blunder Shows Capital Safer Than Swaps
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-05-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/dimon-2-billion-blunder-shows-capital-safer-than-swaps.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  railed against higher  capital requirements 
last year at the same time his bank was using derivatives to
hedge more than $1 trillion of loans and bonds.  Those bets, which led to $2 billion of losses, wouldn’t
have been necessary if JPMorgan did what banks once did: rely on
bigger capital buffers rather than credit-default swaps to hedge
against souring loans. One hundred years ago the equity of U.S.
lenders was about 20 percent of total assets, compared with 9
percent now, according to data compiled by the  Federal Reserve .
For JPMorgan, it was  7 percent  last quarter.  The bank, which had bought or sold credit-derivative
contracts with a notional value of $5.8 trillion as of the end
of last year, would have been better off piling up capital the
way lenders did last century, said  Anat Admati , a finance
professor at  Stanford University .  “Only equity capital is the true protection against
losses, whether from loans or other risks,” said Admati, who
has written about bank capital. “Dimon and other bank CEOs
lobby against rules that would force them to reduce leverage.
Then they try to hide risks through derivatives that offer more
ways to borrow and speculate.”  Shifting Risk  Bankers at New York-based JPMorgan invented credit-default
swaps, or CDS, in the 1990s as a way of reducing the capital
financial institutions need to hold. The contracts require the
seller to pay face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower default,
allowing firms that buy the swaps to shift some of their credit
risk to third-party investors, at least in theory.  In the same decade, U.S. and European banks pushed to
revise global regulations to let them reduce the capital they
needed to hold against assets that their own models showed as
less risky, such as top-rated mortgage-backed securities.  After a financial crisis that led to $1.5 trillion in bank
writedowns and losses tied to some of those securities, the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which brings together
regulators from 27 countries, doubled in 2010 the minimum
capital requirement for the largest firms to 9 percent of risk-
weighted assets. The committee let lenders continue using their
own models to assess risk.  ‘Anti-American’  While Dimon, 56, has voiced support for strong capital
requirements, he has said some of the rules hurt U.S. banks more
than foreign counterparts and assailed proposed capital
surcharges for the world’s largest lenders. He quarreled with
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  at a meeting in Washington
in September, calling the Basel regulations “anti-American.”  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for JPMorgan in London,
declined to comment.  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. lender, had $721 billion of
 loans  on its books at the end of the first quarter and held $404
billion of corporate and mortgage bonds, according to regulatory
filings. Its bets on  credit derivatives  tied to investment-grade
debt jumped eightfold to $84 billion.  Traders in the bank’s chief investment office bought
derivatives to “hedge the company in a stressed credit
environment,” Dimon said in a conference call with analysts on
May 10 announcing the $2 billion loss.  “JPMorgan has a huge portfolio of loans and corporate
bonds, so they wanted to hedge their credit risk in case the
economy deteriorated,” said Peter Tchir, founder of New York-
based TF Market Advisors, which helps  hedge funds  devise
derivatives strategies.  Opposite Directions  The bank is thought to have sold protection on an index of
corporate debt and bought insurance on the same index to hedge
its initial bet, according to market participants who asked not
to be identified because the trading strategies aren’t public.
The two bets moved in opposite directions this year, causing
losses, the people said.  “Hedging is based on a lot of assumptions, and if any of
those don’t work, you no longer have the buffer for the loss,”
said Kevin Dowd, a visiting professor of business at the City
University of  London  who has written three books on risk
management. “The models might not work. The correlations may go
in directions you weren’t expecting. New types of risk are
introduced as you’re trying to reduce risk.”  Using derivatives as a hedge shouldn’t be a substitute for
holding capital, Dowd said.  The swaps banks bought to hedge against Greek bonds almost
proved worthless in March when the country restructured its
debt. If the terms of the exchange had been voluntary, the CDS
wouldn’t have been triggered and banks would have lost 54
percent of the nominal value of their bonds without getting any
payment from their hedges.  ‘Models Blow Up’  A similar hedging attempt by two Bear Stearns Cos. funds
that invested in securities linked to subprime mortgages went
awry in 2007, when CDS prices moved in the opposite direction of
the underlying bonds. That caused losses on both sides for the
funds, pushing them into insolvency.  “Every time models blow up like this, as happened at
JPMorgan, it’s evidence that they shouldn’t be able to get
around capital regulations using them,” said  James Kwak , an
associate professor of law at the University of Connecticut and
co-author of “White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our
National Debt, and Why It Matters to You.”  Black Boxes  Dabbling in trillions of dollars of derivatives makes the
banks black boxes that investors can’t decipher, said George Shipp, manager of the $1 billion Sterling Capital Equity Income
Fund in Virginia Beach, Virginia. That’s one reason why the
market values of the largest U.S. banks are about two-thirds of
their stated book values, he said.  “If I were the king and had absolute power to change
rules, I’d ask for more capital,” said Shipp, whose fund avoids
investing heavily in bank stocks. “I’d turn the clock back to
the 1920s-and ’30s, when capital was multiple-times higher.”  The valuation of Wells Fargo & Co., the fourth-largest U.S.
bank, shows investors are willing to pay more for shares of a
lender that doesn’t rely as much on derivatives, Shipp said.
Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , is the only one of the six
largest U.S. banks with a share price exceeding its book value.  That means investors agree with the company’s estimate of
how much money would remain if its assets were liquidated and
liabilities paid off and also are willing to pay a premium for
the franchise. JPMorgan’s stock price is 70 percent of its book
value. Others range from  37 percent  to 71 percent.  No Capital Relief  Wells Fargo has bought and sold credit-derivative contracts
with a notional value of $75 billion as of Dec. 31, compared
with $5.8 trillion for JPMorgan, according to the most recent
data available from the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency. Wells Fargo has said it doesn’t use credit-default
swaps to hedge its loan book.  “Our view of managing our risk is on a day-to-day basis,”
Michael Loughlin, Wells Fargo’s chief risk officer, said at a
conference last week. “We either make a loan or we don’t make a
loan. We either buy a security or we don’t buy a security.”  That view is shared by TF Market Advisors’ Tchir. Hedges
shouldn’t provide capital relief to banks, he said. Instead,
firms should be required to hold capital against their hedges as
well as their loans. Banks with larger derivatives or loan
portfolios should hold even more capital because trying to sell
large chunks of any asset will lower prices.  “The only real hedge is to sell,” Tchir said. “All these
supposed hedges are really just bets.”  ‘Close the Gap’  A progressive capital regime like the one described by
Tchir was designed by  Allan Meltzer , a professor of political
economy at  Carnegie Mellon University  in Pittsburgh.  The only way to reduce the risk that the largest banks pose
to the public coffers when they fail is to force them to hold
the same amount of capital they did in the  last century , about
20 percent, Meltzer said in an interview. That ratio needs to be
calculated on total assets because risk-weighting with the use
of models is easily gamed, he said.  “The purpose of regulation is to close the gap between
private and public costs,” said Meltzer, who also wrote a
three-volume book on the history of the Fed. “With more
capital, stockholders will make the management pay more
attention to mistakes because they will bear the losses. Now the
shareholders rely on the government to bail them out.”  U.S. banks benefit from accounting rules that allow them to
net their derivatives positions more than their European
counterparts. When  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s largest lender,
reported under U.S. accounting standards, as it did until a few
years ago, its total assets were half what they were under
international rules.  Netting Derivatives  The accounting benefit is another way U.S. banks lower
their capital requirements in addition to buying swaps to hedge
credit risk. Unlike Europe, the U.S. has a leverage cap, which
limits the amount banks’ assets can exceed capital to 25 times.
Thanks to netting, derivatives mostly aren’t counted among these
assets. The  $71 trillion  in notional value of all derivatives
bought and sold by JPMorgan, as reported to the OCC, including
 interest-rate swaps  and exchange-traded futures and options, was
netted down to $85 billion of assets and $74 billion of
liabilities on the bank’s balance sheet.  Netting underestimates the risk of derivatives because it
assumes that all parties to the trades can pay up when required.
During the 2008 crisis, American International Group Inc.
couldn’t meet its obligations on credit-default swaps sold to
dozens of banks and had to be rescued by U.S. taxpayers to make
those payments possible. Netting also is based on opposite-
looking bets supposedly negating each other. JPMorgan’s losses
show that such directional assumptions don’t always hold.  ‘Accounting Gimmicks’  The Financial Accounting Standards Board, which sets rules
for U.S. companies, has backed away from changing this treatment
of derivatives after initially signaling it would adopt more
stringent European rules. Meanwhile, the European Union has
balked at installing a  leverage ratio  like the one in the U.S.
that ignores risk-weightings, even though that was agreed to by
global regulators in 2010.  “We need a simple leverage ratio that can’t be gamed
through risk models or accounting gimmicks,” said Kwak, the
University of Connecticut law professor. “Otherwise, banks will
keep blowing up, and we’ll keep picking up the tab.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter at @Yalman_BN  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  