-- Disney Names Ex-Warner Executive Horn to Lead Studio After Flop
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/disney-names-ex-warner-executive-horn-to-lead-film-studio-1-.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  named former Warner
Bros. Entertainment President Alan Horn as chairman of its film
operation, replacing  Rich Ross , who stepped down in April after
the studio’s “ John Carter ” picture bombed with audiences.  Horn, 69, who oversaw the “Harry Potter” and “Dark
Knight” pictures at Warner, will run production, distribution
and marketing of Disney films, as well as those from the
company’s Pixar and Marvel divisions,  Burbank , California-based
Disney said yesterday in a statement. He starts on June 11.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger  has placed a high
priority on the studio, which lost $84 million last quarter
because of “John Carter.” The studio is benefiting this month
from “Marvel’s The Avengers,” which has posted $1.31 billion
in worldwide sales and lifted Disney to first in U.S. theater
revenue at $742.7 million, according to Box Office Mojo. Warner
Bros., part of  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , is fifth with $524.1 million.  “Our results on the live-action front have been
inconsistent this year in particular and the goal is to find a
management team that is capable of creating higher-quality films
under the Disney live-action banner on a more consistent
basis,” Iger said on May 30 at a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
investor conference.  Horn was eased out of his job into a consulting position at
Warner Bros. in 2011. Since then his role as president has been
shared by an “office of the president” comprised of Jeff Robinov, head of the Warner Bros. Pictures Group; Bruce Rosenblum, the TV group’s president, and Kevin Tsujihara, who
runs the home entertainment unit.  New Responsibilities  At Disney, Horn’s responsibilities will include overseeing
the company’s three motion-picture groups. Disney also
distributes films from  Steven Spielberg ’s DreamWorks Studios.  “The job at Disney is going to be more about managing the
needs of strong and talented personalities,” said  Tony Wible ,
an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia who
has a neutral rating on the stock. “He needs to manage those
legs of the stool.”  Horn, who has also worked at Twentieth Century Fox, becomes
Disney’s third studio chairman in 2 1/2 years, following Ross
and Dick Cook, who left in September 2009. His consulting duties
at Warner Bros., which is also located in Burbank, were
scheduled to run through 2013, according to a September 2010
Time Warner statement.  “He’s been a part of some of the most popular films
produced in the last decade, and we’re very happy for him,”
Barry Meyer, Warner Bros. chairman and CEO, said in a statement.
“All of his colleagues at  Warner Bros . wish him the best.”  Business Breakdown  In the fiscal year ended in October, filmed entertainment
was Disney’s third-biggest  revenue  source, accounting for $6.35
billion, or 16 percent, of the company’s $40.9 billion in total
sales. The studio posted a $618 million operating profit.  Television, including broadcast and cable networks, was
first with $18.7 billion, or 46 percent, followed by parks and
resorts at $11.8 billion, or 29 percent.  “John Carter,” an effects-laden, science-fiction
adventure film made for $250 million, collected just $282.2
million in global ticket sales, which are split between theaters
and the studio. Disney said on March 19 the film would have a
$200 million operating loss.  Time Warner’s filmed entertainment division had an $1.26
billion profit on 2011 revenue of $12.6 billion, according to
company reports.  Disney  rose  1.1 percent to $45.71 yesterday in  New York 
trading. The stock has gained 22 percent this year. Time Warner,
based in New York, fell 0.1 percent to $34.47.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  