-- Dodd-Frank Exemption for Single N.Y. Bank Advances in House
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-05-31T18:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/dodd-frank-exemption-for-single-n-y-bank-expected-to-advance.html
A  New York  City bank with $10.5
billion in assets would be the sole beneficiary of a Dodd-Frank
Act exemption approved today by the House Financial Services
Committee.  Emigrant Bank asked lawmakers on the committee to approve a
change to the 2010 financial-regulation overhaul law that will
save the institution $300 million. The committee voted 35-15
today to approve the measure.  A group of New York lawmakers, led by Republican
Representative Michael Grimm, have taken up the bank’s cause,
arguing that it would be unfairly punished for protecting itself
during financial stress. The measure would retroactively change
the date used to determine which institutions are exempt from
new rules on how institutions consider trust-preferred
securities.  “This would have a very, very detrimental impact on my
constituents who rely on the bank,” Grimm said today. “It was
an act of prudence on the part of Emigrant Bank that caused them
to be captured” by the provision.  Grimm’s measure has eight co-sponsors, six of whom are from
New York and on the Financial Services Committee. The measure is
not currently scheduled for House floor consideration and has no
companion measure in the Democrat-controlled Senate.  Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, pushed for the
inclusion of the new rules on how banks count trust-preferred
securities during the Senate debate on Dodd-Frank in 2010. The
provision, bolstered by the support of then-Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair , eliminated the tier-one
capital treatment for trust-preferred securities at institutions
with more than $15 billion in assets.  $2.3 Billion Loan  Emigrant Bank went over the threshold when it took out a
$2.3 billion loan in order to cover its uninsured deposits
during the financial crisis, Richard C. Wald, the bank’s chief
regulatory officer, said in May 18 testimony on the measure. By
the time the bank was back under $15 billion in assets, it was
past the law’s cutoff date of Dec. 31, 2009.  “Because of an effort to be exceedingly cautious with
regard to addressing its liquidity during the peak of the
financial crisis, Emigrant had more than $15 billion in assets
on December 31, 2009 but significantly less than $15 billion
when Dodd-Frank was enacted,” Wald  said .  Grimm’s measure would add March 31, 2010 as another cutoff
date, relieving the bank of its potential losses.  “When we find ourselves in these situations we should be
responsive to mitigating unintended consequences,”
Representative  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican and
chairman of the committee, said.  Representative  Barney Frank , the top Democrat on the
committee and co-author of the law that bears his name, said he
had no objection to the substance of the measure intended to
address the problems of a single bank.  “In my judgment that’s not necessarily a bad thing,”
Frank said, noting that he “proudly” sought earmarks for
projects in his Massachusetts district. He also said regulators
had not raised objections to the change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  