-- Draghi Sees ECB Serving Solvent Banks During Crisis Vacuum
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-05-31T12:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/draghi-says-ecb-will-continue-lending-to-solvent-banks.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers will keep focusing their crisis
support on solvent euro area banks as he reiterated it’s not the
ECB’s job to fix the cause of the region’s turmoil.  “The ECB will continue lending to solvent banks and will
keep the liquidity lines active and alive with solvent banks,”
Draghi told a European Union Parliament committee in Brussels
today.  World stock markets have lost about $4 trillion this month
as the turmoil in  Europe  reignited after inconclusive Greek
elections and the threat of Spain’s finances being overwhelmed
by its banking crisis. The ECB has shouldered the main burden of
fighting the turmoil by flooding the banking system with over 1
trillion euros ($1.24 trillion), cutting its  benchmark rate  to a
record low and buying  government bonds .  When pressed on whether the ECB can step up action to tame
financial turmoil and help cap widening bond spreads, Draghi
said that “it’s not our duty, it’s not in our mandate” to
“fill the vacuum left by the lack of action by national
governments on the fiscal front,” on “the structural front,
and on the governance front.”  ‘Risk Aversion’  Draghi signaled the ECB is in no rush to introduce a third
three-year loan program as the turmoil hasn’t arrived at “the
same levels reached in November 2011,” when such aid was first
mooted. While the ECB’s lending can help improve bank liquidity,
it cannot address risk aversion and capital shortages in the
banking sector, he said.  Apart from funding “there are two other issues that are
now hampering  credit flow , one is  risk aversion ” and “the
second is lack of capital,” Draghi said. “We cannot do much
about the two other reasons about the slowing in credit.”  Draghi hinted that he is in favor of using the permanent
bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, to be used to
inject capital into banks.  “People are actually working on finding ways that the ESM
could be used to recapitalize banks,” he said. “ The issue is
not so much the use of ESM money to recapitalize banks but
whether this could be done directly without having to go to
governments.”  Germany, Finland  Still, with countries including  Germany  and  Finland 
insisting they must be consulted before such funds are deployed,
Draghi said there is a risk that “we have a big pot of money
but nobody can touch it.”  He said one of the lessons drawn from the  Bankia (BKIA)  group’s
need for a 19 billion euros capital injection is that “further
centralization of banking supervision is needed,” as national
governments and supervisors tend “to first underestimate the
importance of the problem, then come out with a first
assessment, then a second, then a third, then a fourth” and
“all countries have done the same thing.”  This is “the worst possible way of doing things” as even
though in the end they do the “right thing, but at the highest
possible cost and price,” he said. He also urged governments to
“err on the high side” when recapitalizing banks.  Spain needs to bail out lenders still reeling from the
collapse of the real-estate boom while its own access to funding
increasingly depends on domestic banks being kept afloat by the
ECB’s refinancing operations. Rising borrowing costs are putting
pressure on Rajoy’s five month-old government to join Greece,
Portugal and Ireland in seeking external aid.  The yield on  Spain ’s 10-year government bond climbed 21
basis point to 6.63 percent yesterday, close to the euro-era
record of 6.78 percent hit on Nov. 17. By contrast, the yield on
Germany’s two-year bond fell to zero as investors forgo a return
in exchange for safety amid Europe’s escalating crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  