-- Drones Take to American Skies on Police, Search Missions
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/drones-take-to-american-skies-on-police-search-missions.html
For about the cost of a squad car, a
deputy sheriff in Mesa County,  Colorado , can track criminal
suspects, picture an arson scene or search for lost hikers, all
with the ease of tossing a toy glider into the air.  The sprawling county on the Utah line uses two remote-
controlled drone aircraft, similar to those deployed against
 Afghanistan ’s Taliban, to cover 3,300 square miles (8,600 square
kilometers) of mountainous terrain. Remotely operated technology
honed in the war on terror is letting Mesa County and state and
local governments across the U.S. work faster and cheaper.  “We save a significant amount of time,” said Ben Miller,
34, who oversees the Mesa County Sheriff’s Office’s two drones
from  Grand Junction . “It provides a huge resource savings.”  About 20 state and local governments and 24 universities
around the nation are authorized to fly remotely piloted drones,
according to the Federal Aviation Administration. Those figures
are expected to rise in coming years as the agency develops
rules and standards to safely integrate them into airspace
shared with planes, according to industry and FAA officials.  From search and rescue to monitoring water supplies, roads,
bridges and forest fires, applications run the gamut, Ben
Gielow, general counsel at the Association for Unmanned Vehicle
Systems International in Arlington,  Virginia , said by telephone.  Use Picking Up  “They’re going to be used very aggressively in the
future,” said Mary Scott Nabers, president and chief executive
officer of Strategic Partnerships Inc., an Austin, Texas,
industry consultant. “The federal government has allocated
billions for these, and state and local governments will
follow.”  Annual spending on unmanned aerial vehicles, or UAVs,
worldwide will almost double during the next decade to $11.4
billion, according to an  April report  by the Teal Group Corp., a
defense-industry consulting firm based in Fairfax, Virginia. It
didn’t estimate how much of that will come from non-military
buyers. Some drones are as small as radio-controlled model
airplanes and cost less than those used in warfare.  “Use in the U.S. will clearly be a growth area,” Philip Finnegan, Teal Group’s director of corporate analysis and an
author of the report, said by telephone. “Governments that in
the past couldn’t afford helicopters can now afford UAVs.”  Privacy Concerns  Low-cost tools that make it easier for governments to
monitor their territory by air have raised privacy questions,
said Amie Stepanovich, national security counsel with the
 Electronic Privacy Information Center , a nonprofit group in
 Washington  that monitors technology and civil liberties.  “Governments have been using aircraft for a long time, but
if it’s cheaper and easier, it becomes more invasive,”
Stepanovich said by telephone. “There are obvious benefits to
drones, but if you buy a drone to monitor fires and then start
using it to monitor individuals, we think there needs to be
protection.”  Mesa County’s Miller dismissed such concerns, saying in a
telephone interview that using the aircraft to spy on residents
isn’t planned. To search private property, the sheriff’s office
would need a warrant, he said.  “We’re not going to be looking in peoples’ backyards,
because we don’t care what’s going on there,” Miller said.  Imaging Roles  The county runs a drone helicopter, a DraganFlyer X6 made
by Draganfly Innovations Inc. in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, and a
fixed-winged  Falcon-UAV  made near Denver, Miller said. Both can
be transported in a vehicle. The hand-launched Falcon flies for
as much as an hour while the 36-inch-wide DraganFlyer takes off
vertically and runs for 15 minutes. The office uses both to make
pictures, including three-dimensional and infrared images.  The drones cost $3.36 an hour to operate, which compares to
$250 to $600 an hour for a manned aircraft, Miller said. The
drones cost $30,000 to $50,000 each to buy, about the price of a
squad car, he said.  The department, which has been flying drones for two years,
has used them to help fire investigators study an arson scene,
to search for hikers lost near  McInnis Canyons  and to look for a
suicidal resident who had run off into the wilderness.  “It’s a tool in the toolbox,” Miller said. “The bird’s-
eye view is huge.”  Not all government agencies have been happy with the
technology or the FAA’s conditions for using it, however.  The Texas Department of Public Safety, which began a drone
program in 2008 to enhance the security of officers confronting
potentially dangerous situations, discontinued the effort in
2010, Tom Vinger, a spokesman in Austin, said by e-mail.  Abandoned Effort  The step was taken “as a result of concerns surrounding
the complicated  Federal Aviation Administration  restrictions,
battery life of the device, maintenance costs and deficient
video quality,” Vinger said.  Startup companies see a growing market for less-expensive
drones made for civilian uses, Teal’s Finnegan said. Building
the aircraft without the burdens of military specifications can
drive down the costs for government and commercial buyers.  Chris Miser, 35, began Falcon-UAV LLC, which made the
Falcon used by Mesa County, after working on drones as a U.S.
Air Force captain. He adapted the technology for non-military
uses and cut the costs of making the planes.  “Law enforcement has been unaware that it can adopt the
technology,” Miser said by telephone. “This is going to be the
next thing for them to put to use.”  Possible applications for state and local governments
extend beyond  law enforcement , said Ryan Zinke, 50, a retired
U.S. Navy SEAL and now a Republican state senator from
Whitefish,  Montana . Drones can be used to monitor forest fires
or inspect water resources or other assets, said Zinke, who said
he saw the potential while still in military service.  “It’s much more cost-effective than a helicopter,” Zinke
said. He directs Montana State University Northern’s Center for
Remote Integration in Havre, which is developing drone
technology for government and business uses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  