-- Drugmakers Vowed to Campaign for Health Law, Memos Show
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-05-31T18:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/drugmakers-vowed-to-campaign-for-health-law-memos-show.html
Drugmakers led by  Pfizer (PFE)  Inc. agreed
to run a “very significant public campaign” bankrolling
political support for the 2010 health-care law, including TV
ads, while the Obama administration promised to block provisions
opposed by drugmakers, documents released by Republicans show.  The internal memos and e-mails for the first time unveil 
the industry's plan to finance positive TV ads and supportive
groups, along with providing $80 billion in discounts and taxes 
that were included in the law. The administration has previously 
denied the existence of a deal involving political support.  The documents were released today by Republicans on the
House Energy and Commerce Committee. They identify price
controls under Medicare and drug importation as the key industry
concerns, and show that former Pfizer Chief Executive Officer
Jeffrey Kindler and his top aides were involved in drawing it up 
and getting support from other company executives.  “As part of our agreement, PhRMA needs to undertake a very
significant public campaign in order to support policies of
mutual interest to the industry and the Administration,”
according to a July 14, 2009, memo from the  Pharmaceutical
Research and Manufacturers of America . “We have included a
significant amount for advertising to express appreciation for
lawmakers’ positions on health care reform issues.”  The goal, the memo said, was to “create momentum for
consensus health care reform, help it pass, and then acknowledge
those senators and representatives who were instrumental in
making it happen and who must remain vigilant during
implementation.”  Republican View  Republicans, including Representative Joe Pitts, of
 Pennsylvania , have been probing promises made during the March 
2010 passage of the health law, with some arguing that political 
activity by the drugmakers in any agreement may cross an 
ethical line.  “After promising transparency, the White House turned
around and cut a secret deal with pharmaceutical companies,”
Pitts said today in a statement. “Today’s revelation about the
$80 billion deal shows an administration that cared more about
victory than reform.”  White House spokesman  Eric Schultz  called the Republican
probe  “a nakedly political taxpayer-funded crusade to hurt the
president’s re-election campaign.”  The committee has wasted time on investigations “but has
done almost nothing to move legislation that would create jobs
or grow the economy,” Schultz said today in an e-mail.  Committee Investigation  The Republican probe began last year. Bloomberg reported
earlier this month that the committee was targeting whether 
Democrats were promised political support from drugmakers in
exchange for limiting what the industry would be asked to
contribute under the 2010 health-care overhaul, according to
people familiar with the talks who asked not to be identified
because they were private.  “PhRMA has a long history of advocating for policies that
ensure patient access to innovative medicines and foster medical
progress,” said  Matt Bennett , a PhRMA spokesman, in an e-mailed
statement. “Before, during and since the health-care reform
debate, PhRMA engaged with Congress and the administration to
advance these priorities.” Bennett declined further comment.  The  Supreme Court  is considering a challenge to the law and
is expected to rule in June.  Obama’s fellow Democrats who backed the health-care law’s
passage in 2010 pushed back against Republicans and said today
that the documents released by the Republicans were misleading.  ‘Always Done’  “President Obama’s efforts to enlist the support of
private industry are exactly what presidents have always done to
enact major legislation,” U.S. Representatives  Henry Waxman  of
 California  and  Diana DeGette  of  Colorado  said in a joint
statement.  Waxman and DeGette, in their statement, said the Democrats
had managed to get more than the $80 billion out of drugmakers
described in the memos, putting the figure at $110 billion to
$125 billion.  Included in the documents released by the Republicans was
an October 2012 e-mail from Bryant Hall, a PhRMA lobbyist,  In it, Hall wrote that the Obama administration had agreed
to block a proposal by Democrats in Congress that would let
people import pharmaceutical products from outside the U.S.,
where price controls offer them at lower costs than they can be
obtained inside the U.S.  The White House “is working on some very explicit language
to kill it in health-care reform,” Hall wrote in an e-mail sent
to Kindler and Sally Susman, a current Pfizer executive vice
president and head of the New York-based drugmaker’s public
policy and communications operations.  Three Groups  In other documents, PhRMA agreed to help back at least
three different advertising and advocacy groups that pushed for
health-care reform.  A PhRMA memo described a group called Health Economy Now,
and noted that under an agreement “the industry provides the
majority of financial support for positive TV ads advocating
passage of health reform.”  It also provided financial backing for television ads
thanking lawmakers for their support of an expansion of
children’s health care insurance under Medicaid, the U.S.
insurance program for the poor, and a campaign called “Harry
and Louise,” run with Families USA, a Washington-based pro-
health care reform group that advocates for consumers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  