-- EADS to Get German State as Shareholder by Year-End, Uebber Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-05-31T13:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/eads-to-get-german-state-as-shareholder-by-year-end-uebber-says.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  will see a German  state bank  replace  Daimler AG (DAI)  as a
shareholder as Germany seeks to maintain an equal footing with
France in the maker of planes and weapons.  KfW-Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau’s planned purchase of
the 7.5 percent stake will be completed by the end of 2012, EADS
Chairman Bodo Uebber told shareholders at the annual meeting in
Amsterdam today.  “This is intended to maintain the Franco-German balance,”
Uebber said.  The transaction has been in the works for months as German
carmaker Daimler sought an exit from EADS. France and Germany
have been keen to protect the political balance within EADS,
whose assets include planemaker Airbus SAS as well as
helicopters, satellites and missiles. Germany has said it may
purchase shares held by banks and local governments, potentially
raising its stake to 15 percent.  Raising the German stake to that level would put a third of
the company in government hands. Airbus Chief Executive Officer
 Tom Enders , who took over the running of EADS today, has
criticized the government holdings, saying they pose the threat
of overbearing state involvement.  Departing EADS CEO Louis Gallois told shareholders that the
company is poised for higher earnings and is “increasingly
optimistic” about 2012, even if it’s too early to upgrade
guidance.  Shareholders today also voted to name Arnaud Lagardere, CEO
and general partner of publishing company  Lagardere SCA (MMB) , as EADS
chairman to succeed Uebber. Lagardere himself didn’t show to the
shareholder assembly, and had called last night to excuse
himself, Uebber said.  “At some point it would be almost natural for the
shareholder structure to evolve,” said Sandy Morris, an analyst
at Jefferies who has a “buy” rating on the shares. “If you
have a big international company that’s come that far, I think
governments would have to take a look at the day when they don’t
need to be there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse,  France  at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  