-- Leap Becomes First U.S. Prepaid Carrier to Offer iPhone
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-05-31T20:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/leap-becomes-first-u-s-prepaid-carrier-to-offer-iphone.html
Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP)  will
begin offering the iPhone through its Cricket Communications
Inc. division, becoming the first prepaid carrier in the U.S. to
sell  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s smartphone.  The company has entered into a three-year, $900 million
purchase commitment with Apple to offer the iPhone 4S and iPhone
4, according to a filing today. Leap will start selling the
devices on June 22 with its $55-a-month unlimited talk, text and
data plan. The newer 4S model will cost about $500, and the
iPhone 4 will be priced at $400.  “Our customers want the best products available,” Doug Hutcheson, chief executive officer of Leap, said in a statement.
“Launching iPhone is a major milestone for us.”  The move gives U.S. pay-as-you-go users their first crack
at the iPhone, the most popular smartphone at AT&T Inc.,  Verizon
Wireless  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  The challenge will be getting
consumers to pay a higher upfront price for the device, which is
heavily subsidized by the major carriers in return for customers
agreeing to a two-year contract.  The iPhone 4S is available for $199 at AT&T and Verizon
with a contract, and $650 if customers buy it without the
subsidy. At $500, Leap is picking up some of the consumer’s
cost, Phil Cusick, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New
York , said in research note.  More Than Typical  “We estimate that Leap will be subsidizing each iPhone by
about $100 to $125, somewhat more than its typical $50 to $100
smartphone subsidy,” he said in the report.  Leap shares  closed unchanged at $5.77 in New York. The
stock has fallen 38 percent this year, dragged down by slowing
growth in the prepaid market. Diminished speculation that the
San Diego-based company is a takeover target also has weighed on
the shares.  Shares of Leap’s regional prepaid rival MetroPCS
Communications Inc., which doesn’t offer the iPhone, tumbled 27
percent this year before today. The Richardson, Texas-based
company has been the subject of recent merger discussions with
 T-Mobile USA , according to people familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  