-- ECB’s Visco Says EU Leaders Should Consider ‘Common’ Funding
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-05-31T10:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/ecb-s-visco-says-europe-must-make-bailout-mechanisms-more-agile.html
European policy makers need to allow
bailout funds to lend directly to banks and should consider
joint-debt financing, European Central Bank Governing Council
member Ignazio Visco said.  The existing aid mechanisms for countries facing soaring
bond yields “must be made more effective,” Visco, who is also
governor of the  Bank of Italy , said in a speech in  Rome  today.
“There must be the possibility of intervening promptly in the
securities markets and directly in favor of banks, with
procedures that are more flexible and less penalizing for the
beneficiary countries that respect the rules of the union.”  European Union policy makers are seeking ways to shore up
the region’s banking system and bring down borrowing costs with
foreign investors continuing to shun the debt and banks of so-
called peripheral nations.  Germany , the biggest economy of the
17 nations using the euro, has resisted calls to allow the EU’s
bailout mechanisms to lend directly to banks and has opposed the
possibility of joint issuance of debt as a way to bring down
borrowing costs.  Bond Redemption Fund  Visco indicated that he favored joint issuance of debt or
at least a bond-redemption fund to pool debt in excess of the EU
limit of 60 percent of gross domestic product.  “The availability of more common resources and also the
constitution -- proposed in several quarters -- of a fund to
which to transfer sovereign debt in excess of a uniform
threshold, to be redeemed gradually according to a clearly
defined calendar and procedures, are the substance of a form of
fiscal union that cannot be uncoupled from cogent rules nor from
powers of control and intervention.”  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  called on Germany to
“reflect deeply but quickly” on steps to stabilize the
European economy such as enabling direct lending to troubled
banks or setting up a European-finance bank backstop system.  “Countries that are at the core of the system and which
have had the huge merit of instilling the culture of stability
to the EU in the first place, most notably Germany, should
really reflect deeply but quickly on these aspects,” Monti said
by video link to an EU conference in Brussels today. “ Europe 
should really accelerate the efforts, as the European Commission
is doing, in order to limit the contagion.”  ‘Political Inertia’  Visco, in his keynote speech at the Bank of  Italy ’s annual
meeting, said that growing economic imbalances caused by
“political inertia, disregard of the rules and mistaken
economic decisions” are putting the “entire European edifice
at risk.” He called for a tighter political and fiscal union.  “We feel the absence of some of the fundamental
characteristics of a federation of states: decision-making
processes that favor the adoption of far-sighted policies in the
general interest; shared public resources for financial
stability and growth; rules that are truly accepted; and
commonly agreed and timely measures for the financial system and
banks,” Visco said.  He also called  for “less penalizing” measures for
countries receiving assistance, while warning of moral hazard
from being overly generous. Current yield spreads “impede the
correction operation of the single monetary policy”  and are
risks to “financial stability” and an “obstacle to growth.”  ECB Support  ECB President  Mario Draghi  told an EU parliamentary
committee today that the central bank will continue to keep
supporting solvent euro-area lenders. The Frankfurt-based ECB
provided more than 1 trillion euros ($1.24 trillion) in three-
year loans to banks in operations in December and February.  Visco said there’s evidence that Italian banks, aided by
the cheap ECB loans, are starting to provide more liquidity to
the euro region’s third-biggest economy, which is mired in its
fourth recession in a decade. He also said lenders had stepped
up purchases of Italian government debt.  The ECB’s lending helped “partially” restore liquidity to
Italy’s  debt  market, Visco said. Net purchases of the debt by
banks was “modest or  negative” late last year, while it
“amounted to 70 billion euros in the first quarter of 2012,
about a third of it at maturities of less than a year.”  Credit Pickup  While lending to businesses contracted sharply in December
and stagnated in the first quarter of this year, “there are
signs that the improvement in banks’ liquidity is helping to
foster the supply of credit,” Visco said.  Surveys show “some easing of lending terms” compared with
the last three months of 2011, he said.  Visco also praised Monti’s government for taking “rapid
and decisive” action to improve public finances to bring the
 budget deficit  within the EU’s limit of 3 percent of GDP next
year. That effort came partly by raising taxes to a “level
incompatible with rapid growth,” he said.  The fallout from Monti’s austerity measures, coupled with a
forecast recession in the single-currency region, will lead the
Italian  economy  to contract around 1.5 percent this year, the
central-bank governor said. A recovery is possible next year if
Italy continues its structural reforms and Europe’s shows more
“cohesion” in its response to the debt crisis, Visco said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  