-- ECB Says Target2 Claims Don’t Reflect Central Bank Risk Exposure
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-05-31T08:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/ecb-says-target2-claims-don-t-reflect-central-bank-risk-exposure.html
The  European Central Bank  said a
Target2 claim of a national central bank in the euro area
doesn’t accurately reflect its risk exposure.  “In the context of the monetary union, a Target2 claim is
not necessarily a measure of the financial risk exposure of the
NCB in question,” the ECB said in its annual Target report
published today. “The risk associated with the provision of
central bank liquidity to banks as part of monetary policy
implementation is mitigated by a risk management framework,
which includes the requirement of adequate collateral valued at
market prices and subject to haircuts.”  Target2 is the euro’s cross-border payments system, and as
such reflects the stresses that the financial and sovereign-debt
crises have wreaked on the single currency area. As capital from
crisis-stricken countries like  Greece  and  Italy  has sought
safety in northern havens such as  Germany  and the Netherlands,
and banks from southern states have borrowed cash from the ECB,
imbalances have built up.  While Germany, the Netherlands,  Luxembourg  and  Finland  have
a net claim on the system’s hub, the ECB, countries including
Greece, Italy,  Spain  have net liabilities. Those imbalances have
caused controversy in Germany, where academics including the Ifo
Institute’s Hans-Werner Sinn have charged that the Target2
system allows the financing of southern states’ balance-of-
payments deficits by the north.  “Besides the pledge of collateral, the banks remain fully
responsible for their borrowings obtained from the Eurosystem,”
the ECB said. “The residual risk that may emerge despite risk
management features is, as a rule, shared among the euro area
NCBs according to their share in the ECB’s capital.”  The ECB said the Target2 system functioned “smoothly” in
2011 and had a market share of 91 percent of the total value of
payments in large-value euro payment systems. The volume of
payments processed in Target2 rose 1.1 percent from 2010 to 89.6
million transactions, while the total value of payments
increased 3.3 percent to almost 613 trillion euros ($760
trillion), the ECB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  