-- ECB’s Paramo Says Spain Has Room on Bank Recapitalization
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-05-31T12:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/ecb-s-paramo-says-spain-has-room-on-bank-recapitalization.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said  Spain  has room for
maneuver in recapitalizing its banks through its Fund for
Orderly Bank Restructuring.  “The government has front-loaded the issuance program this
year so there is some room in case of need for public funds
through the FROB,” Gonzalez-Paramo, 53, said in an interview in
Frankfurt today, his final day at the ECB. “There is now
progress on the external evaluation of the banking-sector needs
and these will be known in one month’s time.”  Spain, which this month nationalized Bankia group, the
country’s third-largest bank, is trying to shore up lenders and
help cash-strapped regions as its own 10-year bond yields
approach the 7 percent level that prompted bailouts in  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal . Economy Minister Luis de Guindos has
tasked consulting firms to carry out a valuation of banks’
books.  Gonzalez-Paramo said “it’s for the government to decide
which is the way they should push” on addressing the weaknesses
of Spain’s banking industry.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said this week that
the region’s permanent rescue fund, the European Stability
Mechanism, should be allowed to shore up distressed lenders
directly, bypassing national governments. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  opposes using the ESM to directly recapitalize
euro area banks without first asking national governments.  “We have always favored that the ESM would be able to
recapitalize banks directly, instead of going through
governments,” Gonzalez-Paramo said.  Bond Purchases  While agreeing with Rajoy on bank recapitalizations,
Gonzalez-Paramo rejected his call for help in reducing Spain’s
borrowing costs through ECB bond purchases.  “We have explained time and again that the Securities
Markets Program is a monetary policy instrument that was created
at a very special time to tackle disruptions in sovereign bond
markets,” Gonzalez-Paramo said. “This is a program that has
the  euro-zone  interest in sight. It’s part of the tool box and
used in conjunction with all the other monetary policy
instruments.”  The ECB hasn’t bought bonds in almost three months after it
provided more than 1 trillion euros ($1.2 trillion) in cheap
loans to the banking sector through its Longer Term Refinancing
Operations program, increasing pressure on governments to
implement reforms. While leaders have agreed on a fiscal compact
to strengthen euro members’ budgets, they’re disagreeing on how
to restart the region’s ailing economies.  ECB Forecasts  Stronger growth in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, kept
the euro area out of recession in the first quarter. Since then,
business confidence in the 17-nation currency region tumbled to
the lowest in 2 1/2 years and manufacturing and services output
contracted more than economists estimated.  The ECB will publish new growth and inflation forecasts
next week and “up to this moment, we stick to our view that
there are downside risks to the outlook, but on inflation, risks
remain balanced,” Gonzalez-Paramo said. Policy makers will
evaluate “in real time” whether new stimulus is needed, he
added.  “We should not forget that the two LTROs announced last
year were addressed to very specific funding problems in the
banking system,” Gonzalez-Paramo said. “And thanks to these
two operations, the funding of the banking system in the euro
zone is well covered into 2013. Depending on the issues that the
Governing Council would identify, you’ll see either more
measures or no measures because the previous ones still have
some time to go. They have not had the full effect we’re
expecting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  