-- Ecclestone Says F1 IPO May Not Take Place Until Later This Year
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-06-01T01:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/ecclestone-says-f1-ipo-may-not-take-place-until-later-this-year.html
Formula One Chief Executive Officer
 Bernie Ecclestone  said the auto racing series’ planned initial
public offering may not take place until later this year because
of time pressures and a volatile equity market.  “My feeling is it’s probably a better idea to get
everything ready and then go ahead at two months’ notice when
the markets have settled down,” Ecclestone, 81, said in a phone
interview from  London  yesterday. “I’m absolutely confident we
will do it this year.”  Ecclestone said he’s busy handling business, such as talks
with the promoters for a proposed 2013 race in New Jersey, and
can’t devote as much time as is necessary to the IPO. The next
Grand Prix is in  Montreal  on June 10, and the 20-race season
runs until Nov. 25. He said May 22 the IPO could take place as
early as the last week of June.  Formula One’s shareholders led by CVC Capital Partners Ltd.
plan to raise as much as $3 billion by selling stakes in the
business in  Singapore  and have contacted so-called cornerstone
investors. Graff Diamonds Corp., a London-based jeweler, shelved
an IPO in  Hong Kong  this week, citing adverse market conditions.
Facebook Inc. shares have lost more than a quarter of their
value since its IPO.  “There’s no rush, the markets aren’t good at the moment,
it doesn’t inspire people,” Ecclestone said. “We don’t have to
do it now.” Ecclestone said Formula One never set a date so it
would be wrong to say it’s delaying the IPO.  Waddell & Reed  London-based CVC, which bought 63.4 percent of Formula One
in 2005 and 2006 using $2.5 billion of loans, is cashing in on
its investment after racing teams Ferrari,  Red Bull  and McLaren
agreed to new terms through 2020.  Earlier this year, CVC sold 21 percent of the company to
Waddell & Reed Financial Inc., Norges Bank  Investment Management 
and BlackRock Inc. for a combined $1.6 billion, the private
equity firm said on May 22.  Other shareholders include the administrators of bankrupt
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., who hold 15.3 percent, and
Ecclestone, who has 5.3 percent. Ecclestone’s ex-wife Slavica
and their two daughters own 8.5 percent through Bambino Holdings
Ltd. Ecclestone said neither he nor Bambino plan to sell their
stakes in Formula One.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  