-- Electronics Makers Need More Demand to Lift U.S. Index
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/tech-demand-needed-as-electronics-makers-hit-3-year-low.html
Weak sales of some technology and
consumer products is driving down an index of electronics-
manufacturing-services companies, which is at a three-year low
relative to the market.  Demand for networking and telecommunications gear -- a key
tech-business segment -- has been “disappointing at best,”
said Shawn Harrison, an analyst in Independence,  Ohio , at
Longbow Research. Investors also are skeptical about growth
because slow orders for consumer products such as  notebook
computers , television set-top boxes and some smartphones
“remain a headwind,” he said.  Spending on tech products may not show a typical “seasonal
uptick” during the second half of the year, Harrison said. The
customers of EMS providers -- including  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  -- have confirmed that
“the world is still not firing on all cylinders,” he said.  The  Bloomberg U.S. Electronics Manufacturing Services Index (BNUSEMSX) 
-- comprised of Flextronics International Ltd., Jabil Circuit
Inc. and 11 other companies -- has fallen 24 percent since Feb.
23, compared with a 3.7 percent decline for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  The index “broke a key support level” on May 10 when it
traded below the point at which investors bought these stocks
last year,  said Jim Stellakis, founder and director of research
at New York-based research company Technical Alpha. This was a
bearish shift by investors, who “weren’t valuing this group the
way they did in August and September of 2011,” he said.  ‘Dead Money’  Solaris Group doesn’t own any of these companies because
the second quarter tends to be “a valley in terms of demand,”
and the stocks are “dead money right now,” said  Tim Ghriskey ,
who oversees about $2 billion as chief investment officer of the
 Bedford Hills , New York-based investment company.  Jabil (JBL) , the  St. Petersburg , Florida-based provider of
electronics-design, manufacturing and management services, is
scheduled to release fiscal third-quarter earnings June 21.  Since production is outsourced to these companies, they are
the first to see cutbacks in orders, and their stock performance
tends to be very volatile, Ghriskey said. They began
underperforming in mid-February, and the selloff intensified
when some of their customers reported weaker-than-forecast
activity, he said.  ‘Wait-and-See’ Environment  San Jose , California-based Cisco, one of the EMS  customers ,
forecast fiscal fourth-quarter profit on May 9 that missed
analysts’ estimates amid a “wait-and-see type of environment”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  said on a
conference call that day.  The world’s largest maker of computer-networking equipment
said earnings before some costs for the period ending in July
will be 44 cents to 46 cents a share. This compares with
analysts’ estimates of 48 cents, data compiled by Bloomberg
shows. These results aren’t a reason “to become more bullish
about the industry,” Harrison said.  While  Sanmina-SCI Corp. (SANM)  executives are among those who have
said demand probably will pick up in the second half of 2012,
investors don’t have “confidence in that happening,” said Amit Daryanani, an analyst in  San Francisco  at  RBC Capital Markets .
Orders always can be reduced at the last minute, particularly
when customers are concerned about the economy, he said.  Unemployment in the U.S. has stalled  above 8 percent  since
February 2009; and Spain, Greece and  Italy  are among the euro-
area economies in recession as the region struggles with its
debt crisis.  Signs of Recovery  The “macro environment is unsettled, and the near-term
performance of our network-communication sector remains
uncertain” for  Plexus Corp. (PLXS) , even amid “early signs of
recovery” in most of its business segments, President and Chief
Executive Officer Dean Foate said on an April 19 conference
call.  The Neenah, Wisconsin-based electronic and software
designer anticipates performance among its top 10 customers will
be mixed as they appear to be “struggling with forecasts,”
Foate said.  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , the second-largest maker of
networking equipment, represents 14 percent of its revenue,
Plexus said April 18.  Juniper, based in Sunnyvale,  California , still sees
“significant headwinds in  Europe ,” particularly for service
providers, Chief Executive Officer  Kevin Johnson  said on a April
24 conference call.  ‘Spotty’ Demand  Demand has been “very spotty” for  Celestica Inc. (CLS) , which
makes electronics for companies such as  Research in Motion Ltd .,
Chief Financial Officer Paul Nicoletti said on an April 24
conference call. The Toronto-based company’s forecast for
economic recovery in the second half of the year is “not as
strong” as it “would have expected sitting here 90 days ago,”
he said.  Such weakness in key markets has overshadowed cheap
valuations, according to Harrison, who said this is one reason
for his “neutral” recommendation on Celestica. The company is
trading at a multiple of about seven times consensus 2012
earnings, near its historic low of six times, he estimates.  Even so, other markets, such as industrial,  automotive  and
medical, have had “pretty good growth,” offering “pockets of
strength” for diversification, Harrison said. Plexus and Jabil
are among EMS providers that have “refined strategies to win
new business,” which has helped cushion the slower demand from
their tech customers, he said.  ‘Double Whammy’  These companies have high operating leverage because of
their large fixed-cost structure, so there’s a “double whammy”
-- a decline in sales causes a disproportionate drop in profits,
Daryanani said. They also have “massive global exposure,”
particularly in Europe where their customers generate about 30
percent of revenue, he estimates.  The industry has been “extremely skittish” about business
with Research in Motion, so Celestica and  Flextronics (FLEX)  “have put
some guardrails” around their exposure to the maker of the
BlackBerry smartphone, Daryanani said. The Waterloo, Ontario-
based company forecast an operating loss May 29 for its fiscal
first quarter.  If the EMS index can trade above the relative low that was
“violated” in May, this will be the first indication investors
are becoming more bullish about these stocks again, said
Stellakis, a chartered market technician.  First, they will need to see signs of improvement as they
await more robust demand, Ghriskey added.  “This is not the time to buy EMS stocks as investors are
still very concerned about economic growth,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  