-- Economy in U.S. Expanded Less Than Previously Estimated
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-05-31T12:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/economy-in-u-s-grew-less-in-first-quarter-than-last-estimated.html
The U.S. economy grew more slowly in
the first quarter than previously estimated, reflecting smaller
gains in inventories and bigger government cutbacks.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.9 percent annual rate
from January through March, down from a 2.2 percent prior
estimate, revised Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The report also showed corporate profits rose at the
slowest pace in more than three years and smaller wage gains at
the end of 2011.  Consumer spending at retailers and  car dealerships  kept the
economy moving forward last quarter just as businesses investment
cooled, showing why the economy needs to generate bigger job
gains to sustain the expansion. The threat of a slump in Europe
adds to concerns the U.S. recovery will struggle to gain speed.  “The consumer showed some good results in the first
quarter, but going forward, the outlook is one of steady albeit
unspectacular gains,” said  Richard DeKaser , deputy chief
economist at Parthenon Group LLC in  Boston , who correctly
forecast the revision. “The phrase that best describes our
economy is ‘muddling along.’”  Other reports today showed more Americans than projected
filed claims for jobless benefits last week and companies added
fewer workers than forecast in May.  More Claims  First-time applications for unemployment insurance payments
increased by 10,000 to 383,000 in the week ended May 26 from a
revised 373,000 the prior week, the Labor Department reported.
They exceeded the median estimate of 370,000 in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  Figures from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Employer
Services showed payrolls increased by 133,000 this month
following a revised 113,000 gain in April. The median  estimate
of 39 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a May advance
of 150,000.  Stock-index future trimmed earlier gains after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June
rose 0.1 percent to 1,309.5 at 8:52 a.m. in  New York . They had
been up as much as 0.6 percent earlier.  Growth forecasts from the 79 economists surveyed ranged from
1.6 percent to 2.2 percent. The world’s largest economy expanded
at a 3 percent rate in the prior three months.  Global Slowdown  The U.S. cooled last quarter just as other global economies
also lost steam. Growth in the 17-nation euro region stagnated in
the first quarter from the same time in 2011.  China’s economy 
expanded 8.1 percent in the first three months of 2012 from a
year earlier, the slowest pace in 11 quarters.  Consumer spending climbed at a 2.7 percent annual rate,
revised from a 2.9 percent initial estimate and following a 2.1
percent gain in the prior three months. Purchases added 1.9
percentage points to growth.  “I remain cautiously optimistic about improving economic
trends as the year goes on and I feel like our North American
business is performing OK in a difficult environment,” Ron
Sargent, chief executive officer of office-supply retailer
Staples Inc. said during a May 16 earnings call. “We continue to
see modest improvement in the U.S. economy and ongoing weakness
in  Europe .”  Revisions to income figures may raise concern that purchases
can sustain similar gains. Wages and salaries rose by $28.9
billion in the fourth quarter, less than the $89.1 billion gain
previously reported. That dropped the saving rate to 4.2 percent
at the end of 2011.  Less Saving  The rate decreased to 3.6 percent in the first quarter, the
lowest since the fourth quarter of 2007.  Today’s report also offered a first look at corporate
profits. Earnings climbed 0.6 percent from the previous three
months, the smallest increase since a drop in the fourth quarter
of 2008. They rose 6.5 percent from the same time last year.  Spending by state and local government agencies dropped at a
2.5 percent annual rate in the first quarter, more than twice the
1.2 percent decline initially reported, today’s data showed.  A smaller gain in stockpiles may help the economy pick up
this quarter. Inventories contributed 0.2 percentage point to GDP
growth compared with an initial estimate of 0.6 percentage
points. Stockpiles were rebuilt at a $57.7 billion annual pace
after a rate of $52.2 billion in the final three months of 2011.  “Leaner inventories are a plus for future growth
prospects,” Paul Edelstein, a U.S. economist at IHS Global
Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts , said before the report.  Growth Forecasts  Economists at Morgan Stanley in New York are among those
projecting growth will pick up this quarter. The economy will
grow at a 2.4 percent annual rate, according to their latest
tracking estimate, as gains in housing and  consumer spending 
climbs help offset slowdowns in business investment.  Consumers were probably able to lift demand last quarter as
the labor market improved. Employers increased payrolls by
688,000 from January through March, the biggest quarterly gain
since the first three months of 2006, data from the Labor
Department show.  Job creation  has since slowed. Employers took on 115,000 new
workers in April, the fewest in six months. Economists project a
Labor Department report tomorrow will show payrolls grew by
150,000 last month, still weaker than any month from November
through March.  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley
said the U.S. expansion will probably continue at a “moderate”
pace and that additional stimulus likely won’t be needed unless
the economy falters.  Dudley’s View  “As long as the  U.S. economy  continues to grow sufficiently
fast to cut into the nation’s unused economic resources at a
meaningful pace, I think the benefits from further action are
unlikely to exceed the costs,” Dudley said yesterday.  Central bank policy makers said last month they anticipated
keeping the Fed’s benchmark rate near zero until at least late
2014, reiterating a plan announced in January.  Gross domestic income in the first quarter was also released
today for the first time. The measure, which shows the money
earned by the people, businesses and government agencies whose
purchases go into calculating growth, rose at a 2.7 percent
annual rate from January through March.  According to Federal Reserve research, GDI may be a better
gauge of the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  