-- Ecuador Proposes Pastor as OPEC Head Vs Saudi, Iraq Bids
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-05-31T16:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/ecuador-proposes-pastor-as-opec-head-vs-saudi-iraq-bids.html
Ecuador , OPEC’s smallest producer,
nominated Oil Minister Wilson Pastor for secretary-general of
the group to replace the outgoing Abdalla el-Badri, according to
a person with knowledge of the matter.  The South American nation has put forward its submission to
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, according to
the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Pastor, 66,
refused to comment on the matter, Luis Gualotuna, a press
officer at the ministry, said by telephone from  Quito  today. An
OPEC official declined to comment on nominations.  El-Badri, the one-time chairman of Libya’s National Oil
Corp., is due to complete his second three-year term at the end
of December.  Saudi Arabia , the biggest OPEC member, and  Iraq 
have already put forward possible replacements, while Iran’s
Donya-e-Eqtesad newspaper said May 29 that the nation also plans
to name a candidate. Ministers will probably consider the
nominations at their June 14 meeting at the organization’s
Vienna headquarters.  Ecuador, which rejoined OPEC in 2007 after a 15-year
hiatus, produced 480,000 barrels a day of oil last month,
according to the  International Energy Agency . Saudi Arabia
supplied 10 million barrels a day, while Iraq produced 3.03
million, the agency said in its monthly oil market  report .  Ministerial Role  Pastor was appointed Non-Renewable Natural Resources
Minister in April 2010 after running PetroAmazonas, a unit of
state oil company PetroEcuador. During his tenure, the country
negotiated new service contracts with  oil companies  in an
attempt to boost government revenue from crude production. He
speaks Spanish, French and English and studied engineering
geology in Ecuador in the late 1960s, then energy economics at
the Pierre Mendes-France University in Grenoble, France,
according to a biography on OPEC’s  website .  Saudi Arabia nominated Majid al-Moneef, its OPEC governor,
a person with knowledge of the matter said Feb. 1. Iraq, whose
production revival has lifted it into third place among the 12-
member group, nominated former Oil Minister  Thamir Ghadhban ,
according to a March 6 statement. Iran will name a candidate
when OPEC next meets, the Tehran-based Donya-e-Eqtesad paper
reported, citing OPEC governor Mohammad Ali Khatibi. Khatibi
didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone today.  El-Badri’s appointment which started on Jan. 1, 2007, ended
three years of deadlock over a permanent appointment for the
secretary-general position. He was finally picked instead of
contenders from  Iran  and Kuwait. Rivalry for the post is strong
this year too.  ‘National Mission’  “This is a national mission to obtain this job for its
importance,” Iraqi Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said in
 Baghdad  today, where he attended an exploration license auction.
Ghadhban “is known, eligible for this post.”  Each of OPEC’s 12 members appoints a governor and a
national representative to the group. The governor sits on the
board, helping manage the organization and its budget, while the
representative’s duties include oil market analysis.  The secretary-general’s role is to oversee the Vienna-based
secretariat and act as its public face while policy decisions on
production quotas are taken by ministers, with one acting as the
group’s president each calendar year.  Pastor is used to dealing with international companies.
In the late 1980s, he was chief financial officer of Texaco
Inc.’s joint venture with state-run PetroEcuador.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
which acquired Texaco in 2001, was ordered last year to pay as
much as $18 billion in compensatory and punitive damages for
the U.S. oil company’s alleged dumping of toxic drilling wastes
in the Ecuadorean Amazon from 1964 to about 1992.  OPEC’s members are  Algeria ,  Angola , Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  