-- Hedge Fund ETF Weapons Turn Dangerous for Solo Investors
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-05-31T15:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/hedge-fund-etf-weapons-turn-dangerous-for-solo-investors.html
If you are convinced, really
convinced, the price of crude oil will rise today and U.S.
stocks will fall, Factor Advisors LLC has an exchange-traded
fund for you.  The  FactorShares 2X: Oil Bull/S&P500 Bear (FOL)  offered by the
New York-based firm makes a two-times long wager on crude oil
futures and a short bet on Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures,
in effect delivering twice the daily change in the spread
between the two positions. The product’s birth followed “a lot
of feedback” from institutional investors, including  hedge
funds , Stuart Rosenthal, chief executive officer of Factor
Advisors, said in a telephone interview.  As the biggest ETF managers capture assets from traditional
mutual funds with benchmark-tracking offerings, smaller
competitors are catering to sophisticated investors with an
increasingly complex arsenal of products. Often based on
derivatives, these can be weapons for savvy investors to amplify
wagers on rising or falling prices of everything from stocks and
bonds to currencies and commodities. The same tools, readily
available through conventional and online brokers, have proven
hazardous for individual investors who sometimes misunderstand
and misuse them with costly consequences.  “If you make it available to the masses, watch out,
because the masses might buy them,” Paul Justice, an analyst
with Chicago-based fund researcher Morningstar Inc., said in a
telephone interview.  Price Gyrations  Earlier this year, notes issued by Credit Suisse AG lost
half their value in two days as the  price of the securities 
became unhinged from their underlying index. Clients have also
been burned by some leveraged and inverse products, which are
designed to amplify market moves over short periods and aren’t
intended for buy-and-hold investors.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is reviewing
the price gyrations of the Credit Suisse product, people
familiar with the matter said in March. Still, the Washington-
based agency isn’t charged with measuring the suitability of
exchange-traded products for small investors, a responsibility
left mostly to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the
brokerage industry’s self-funded regulator. Finra, which faced
criticism over the alleged weakness of its sanctions during the
financial crisis in 2008, has since increased the penalties it
imposes on member firms.  Opaque Investments  Hard-to-understand exchange-traded products, or ETPs, are
one of many potentially costly choices for retail investors as
they struggle to earn higher yields in a low interest-rate
environment. Wall Street brokerages, insurance companies and
other financial firms have pushed opaque investments including
structured notes, indexed annuities, private placements and
floating-rate funds to investors as a way to boost returns.  Steven Bloom, an assistant professor of economics at the
U.S. Military Academy at  West Point , New York, who helped invent
the first U.S. ETF, said an approach based on “buyer beware”
may not be good enough, especially when prospectuses and other
disclosure documents are often difficult to understand, even for
sophisticated investors.  “More important even than their responsibility for any one
product, regulators must ensure that public trust is
maintained,” Bloom said. “ Capital markets  are predicated on
trust, and when public trust dwindles it can cast a cloud over
the entire capital markets.”  ETFs vs. ETNs  ETPs were the fastest-growing major investment product over
the past decade, as investors embraced their simplicity, tax
efficiency and low cost. Assets in the U.S. increased almost 14-
fold in the 10 years through April 30 to $1.19 trillion,
according to the  Investment Company Institute . U.S. investors
added $4.82 to exchange-traded products last year for every $1
they deposited with mutual funds.  Those same investors can choose from more than 1,400 ETPs,
a term that includes funds, trusts and unsecured notes,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Exchange-traded notes,
the equivalent of bonds, are unique among ETPs in that they
aren’t backed by a pool of holdings owned by shareholders. They
represent merely a promise to pay a return, defined typically by
an index.  Derivative-based ETPs and ETNs have swelled since they were
introduced in 2006 to $58.8 billion, accounting for 4.9 percent
of ETP assets in the U.S. The SEC in 2010 stopped approving new
funds, including ETFs, that make significant use of derivatives,
pending a review. The suspension doesn’t affect products such as
ETNs that aren’t registered under the 1940 Investment Company
Act.  Array of Products  Investors have a dizzying array of funds to choose from.
Apart from funds that track broad indexes such as the Standard &
Poor’s 500, there are those that buy Asian  junk bonds  and global
agriculture stocks; trusts that track groups of hedge funds and
the Swedish krona. There is even a note from the Royal Bank of
Scotland that, according to the product’s  description ,
“utilizes a systematic trend-following strategy to provide
exposure to either the BNY Mellon China Select ADR Total Return
Index or the yield on a hypothetical notional investment in
three-month U.S. Treasury bills.”  Even companies that sell ETPs are pushing for better
disclosure. New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the biggest provider
of ETPs, has proposed that regulators enforce a new
categorization regime with clearer labeling and risk disclosures
to aid retail buyers. CEO Laurence D. Fink compared the
development of hard-to-understand ETPs to financial engineering
in the mortgage-backed  securities market , which played a key
role in the 2008 financial crisis.  Systemic Risks  As it tries to keep up with the market, the SEC has hired
new staffers with ETP expertise, including Barry Pershkow,
former counsel at ProShare Advisors LLC, a provider of leveraged
and inverse ETFs. In October, Eileen Rominger, head of the
agency’s  investment-management  division, said the SEC was
conducting a “general review of ETPs” that included an
examination of investor disclosure.  Rominger said the SEC was also looking at whether ETPs, as
a group, represented any systemic risks, examining their
contribution to equity-market volatility in 2010 and the 8.6
percent intraday plunge in the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index on
May 6, 2010.  Since those events, Morningstar analyst Michael Rawson and
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland analyst Emre Ergungor have
published research discounting the product’s impact on
 volatility  and the 2010 stock-market rout, respectively.  SEC Role  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment on the
agency’s inquiries or how it examines exchange-traded products
on their way to market.  The SEC’s role in approving a new product depends on its
type. The agency reviews registration statements of the shares
or notes issued by all ETPs to make sure they meet disclosure
requirements related to the securities and the issuer. Funds
registering as investment companies are subject to additional
reporting requirements and disclosures connected to investment
objectives, risks and expenses.  What the approval process doesn’t include is a judgment on
whether the product is any good, or who should use it.  “The SEC and federal securities laws don’t take a merit-
based approach to regulation,” said Mercer Bullard, an
associate professor of law at the University of Mississippi and
founder of the advocacy group Fund Democracy Inc.  ‘Suitability’ Standard  Michael Mundt, a former assistant director in the SEC’s
division of investment management, said Finra may play a more
important role in protecting investors from the hazards of
complex ETPs as it enforces the brokerage industry’s standard of
“suitability,” designed to make sure brokers match clients
with appropriate products.  Finra in May fined four firms a combined $9.1 million for
selling leveraged and inverse ETFs to clients who didn’t
understand them and lost money. Finra is reviewing the Credit
Suisse episode and “a host of issues relating to ETNs,”
spokesman George Smaragdis said in an e-mailed statement.  “Credit Suisse is cooperating with regulatory
authorities,” said  Katherine Herring , a spokeswoman for the
bank.  ETPs didn’t start out so complicated.  “The guiding mission of the first ETF was cheaper, better,
faster exposure for investors to swathes of the stock market,”
said Bloom, who, along with the late Nate Most, developed the
first U.S. ETF at the  American Stock Exchange  in the late 1980s.  ‘Program Trades’  Before ETPs, investors could buy S&P futures or “program
trades,” transactions with a brokerage that triggered purchases
of a basket of shares. Comingled index trusts, a sort of mutual
fund for institutional buyers, were another option. All were
restricted to big players, or were cumbersome to access or exit,
or both.  When John Bogle’s  Vanguard 500 Index Fund (VFINX)  appeared in 1976,
it made buying all the benchmark’s stocks cheap and easy for
small investors. Still, like all mutual funds, investors could
only buy or sell at a price set once a day, after the market
closed.  Most and Bloom solved the problem with the  SPDR S&P 500
Trust (SPY) , or the Spider. Registered as a unit investment trust
under the 1940 Act, it held the securities it tracked, had about
the same cost as the Vanguard index fund and had greater tax
efficiency. And it traded all day.  Biggest ETF  It took more than three years to secure approval, and the
Spider opened on January 22, 1993, under the trading ticker SPY.
The fund, managed by Boston-based State Street Corp., remains
the biggest ETF today, with $98.7 billion in assets.  “They were trying to develop something to drive trading on
their exchange,” Gary Gastineau, author of “The Exchange-
Traded Funds Manual” (Wiley & Sons, 2010), said in a telephone
interview. “It also happens that the combination of features
created the best collective investment product structure for
securities in the world.”  Over the next several years, providers pushed gradually
into narrower targets. Funds opened to track single industries
and individual countries, followed by value and growth investing
styles and specific market capitalizations.  While they became more specialized, the products remained
linked to equity indexes that weighted companies according to
their market size. And they tracked those benchmarks by holding
all, or a substantial portion of, their component stocks. Most
were registered under the 1940 Act, providing investors clear
protections related to safeguarding assets and mandating the
disclosure of certain information.  The 10 Biggest  Stock-oriented funds and UITs that fit those parameters
today still account for about a third of all exchange-traded
products in the U.S. and 60 percent of assets, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The biggest 10 hold $329 billion, or more than a
quarter of all U.S. ETP assets.  In the rest of the industry, much has changed since the
introduction of the first fixed-income fund in the U.S. in July
2002 and the first commodity-based product in November 2004.
Another important wrinkle appeared during the same period as
some providers began embracing non-traditional index weightings.
Still, ETPs, including commodity trusts, held what they tracked
and generally represented investment strategies that retail
investors would recognize, such as long-term Treasuries or gold
bars.  The introduction in 2006 of three new product types in the
U.S., all based on derivatives, ushered in a profound change.
While aimed at institutions, they also gave individual investors
access to sophisticated and potentially risky bets.  Turning to Derivatives  The first was a commodity tracker from Deutsche Bank AG, in
February 2006, that used futures contracts, making it possible
to invest in materials difficult to receive and store, like oil
and wheat.  ProShare Advisors opened eight leveraged and inverse ETFs
in June that same year, using swap contracts to amplify or bet
against the daily movement of an equity index.  The first exchange-traded note arrived that same month.
Linked to a mixed commodities index, it held no product or
derivative contracts; it was backed solely by the
creditworthiness of its provider, London-based Barclays Plc.  “Generally, it’s good if you’re providing investors more
choice and more access to institutional-class strategies,” said
Adam Patti, founder and CEO of IndexIQ, based in Rye Brook, New
York, whose products include an ETF that tracks an index of
hedge funds. “Why should institutions and the ultra-high-net-
worth have the only access to sophisticated investment
strategies?”  Cost of Complexity  While giving investors new options, complexity has had its
costs. Each of the three derivative-based product types has been
involved in controversial episodes in which retail investors
lost money not because the market moved against them, but
because they failed to understand risks particular to a product.  Commodity investors who park money long enough in some
futures-based funds lose money every month to traders taking
advantage of the funds’ predictable need to roll out of near-
term contracts before they reach their delivery date. The
trading causes the contracts to fall in price just before the
funds sell, and rise again after the wave of selling is over.  Leveraged and inverse ETFs present a peril for investors
who don’t understand how gains and losses are compounded daily,
causing returns over more than one day to differ from returns
implied by the underlying index. In a settlement this month with
Finra,  Wells Fargo & Co ., Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley and UBS
AG agreed to pay a combined $9.1 million in restitution and
fines to settle claims that they improperly sold the products in
2008 and 2009 to clients who lost money. In settling the claims,
the firms neither admitted nor denied the charges.  Coming Unglued  For ETNs, there was the meltdown of a Credit Suisse note.
The bank on Feb. 21 said it had stopped creating units of its
 VelocityShares Daily 2x VIX Short Term ETN. (TVIX)  Experienced
investors knew that the lack of new supply amid rising demand
meant the note’s price could come unglued from its underlying
index, and stayed away when a premium appeared in the price.
Less knowledgeable investors continued to buy, and got burned
when Credit Suisse announced on March 22 it would soon begin
reissuing the notes, prompting a plunge of 50 percent in two
days, even as the index dropped just 5.9 percent.  The industry’s steady push to introduce more complex
products isn’t driven by a desire to ensnare unsuspecting
investors, Michael Sapir, chairman and CEO of ProShare Advisors,
said in a telephone interview. It’s driven by the demands of
smart investors, he said.  “To a large extent ETFs have been bought, not sold,” he
said. “The industry has delivered products that investors have
been asking for.”  ‘Crazy Warrant’  Sapir said providers and investors each have
responsibilities in seeking to minimize mishaps: Companies have
an obligation to educate, and investors must do their homework.  “I don’t care if it’s a single stock ETF or some crazy
warrant that trades in  Hong Kong ,” said  James Ross , head of
State Street’s ETF business, the world’s second-biggest. “If
you are hitting a button to buy a product and don’t understand
it, you probably should stop.”  Part of the problem may be that investors think they
understand what they are buying when the name starts with the
phrase “exchange-traded,” said  Deborah Fuhr , head of London-
based research firm ETFGI LLP. That can include a vast array of
products generating returns in different ways under different
regulatory structures with different tax rules.  “By lumping things into that bucket, people assume they
are all one and the same,” Fuhr said. “That’s where people can
have a problem.”  Educating Users  In educating users, providers are limited by their lack of
direct contact with retail investors. Mutual-fund companies must
maintain a record-keeping relationship with each shareholder and
can restrict access to complex products. With ETPs, retail
investors buy and sell strictly through a securities broker who
obtains the shares off an exchange.  That makes the role of intermediaries like brokers and
financial advisers central to how ETPs are bought and sold.  Finra’s first warnings about leveraged and inverse ETFs in
2009 had an impact among brokers that its recent fines may
reinforce. Several firms, including UBS and Morgan Stanley, have
stopped recommending the products or otherwise restricted their
sales. Online brokers that cater to self-directed investors,
like Charles Schwab Corp. and TD Ameritrade Holding Corp., said
they have ramped up educational materials and added disclaimers
that confront clients seeking to purchase leveraged and inverse
ETFs.  ‘Customer Harm’  Finra spokesman Smaragdis said the events illustrate an
example of the agency “getting out ahead of significant
customer harm.”  David Nadig, director of research at San Francisco-based
ETF research firm IndexUniverse LLC, has argued that regulators
should go further, installing “gates” in front of some ETPs
that mirror the rules governing access to underlying markets.
That could require brokerages to approve investors one-by-one
for products that make heavy use of derivatives.  ProShare’s Sapir said explicit restrictions would be unfair
if they singled out ETPs when mutual funds and other investment
professionals use derivatives extensively. Regulators, he said,
should continue to demand “full and fair disclosure” from
providers without taking away valuable investment tools that
customers demand.  “Do you want to turn the clock back 30 years?” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  