-- Mediobanca Said to Seek Generali Chief’s Ouster Tomorrow
-- B y   D a n   L i e f g r e e n   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-06-01T09:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/mediobanca-said-to-attempt-ouster-of-generali-chief-perissinotto.html
Mediobanca (MB)  SpA is leading an investor
group that’s seeking to remove  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  Chief
Executive Officer Giovanni Perissinotto because the investment
bank wants to improve the performance of  Italy ’s biggest
insurer, two people familiar with the situation said.  Perissinotto was summoned to Mediobanca’s Milan
headquarters and asked to resign by  Alberto Nagel , the bank’s
CEO, and Chairman Renato Pagliaro, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  Generali’s CEO refused to step down and investors led by
Mediobanca, the insurer’s biggest investor with a 13.2 percent
stake, plan to push for his ouster at a board meeting the
insurer has called for tomorrow, one of the people said.
Mediobanca declined to comment on the matter, as did a spokesman
for Generali.  “The problem with Generali is governance, which needs to
be improved,” said Emanuele Vizzini, who oversees about 800
million euros ($988 million) as chief investment officer for
Investitori Sgr in Milan. “You need to remove the interference
of investors that have direct and conflicting interests.”  Mario Greco, an executive at Zurich Insurance Group AG,
will be proposed as a replacement for Perissinotto, one of the
people said. Greco is a former CEO of Italian insurer Riunione
Adriatica di Sicurta SpA.  Shares Up  Generali rose as much as 7 percent, to the highest in two
years, and was up 5 percent to 8.62 euros at 11 a.m. in Milan
trading, giving the company a market value of 13.4 billion
euros. The shares have  fallen  29 percent this year, compared
with  the Bloomberg  Europe  500 Insurance Index’s 4 percent
 decline .  “We think investors had a good feeling with Greco and
would be pleased by his appointment,” Matteo Ghilotti, an
analyst at Equita SIM SpA, wrote in a note today.  Generali, based in the northern city of Trieste, said May 11
that first-quarter profit fell 7.9 percent, less than estimated
by analysts. Perissinotto, 58, said at the time that he expects
“strong” profit this year as the company reduces costs and
sells assets to strengthen capital.  Generali cut its  dividend  for 2011 by 25 cents to 20 cents
a share after net income declined to 856 million euros from 1.7
billion euros a year earlier. Profit was hurt as the insurer
wrote down the value of Greek bonds by 76 percent.  Mediobanca Influence  Perissinotto, who met Mediobanca’s executives May 30,
accused the investment bank of acting in its own interests in a
letter he wrote to board members, a copy of which was obtained
by Bloomberg News.  Mediobanca has put “its interests above those of this
company, its policyholders, employees and the vast majority of
its shareholders,” Perissinotto wrote in the letter.  “Mediobanca has obstructed Generali management efforts to
diversify risk into new high-growth areas,” because this might
have led to dilution of shares and “reduced influence for
Mediobanca over the group” given the investment bank’s
unwillingness to subscribe to a capital increase.  Generali, which gets about 13 percent of its  operating
income  in central and eastern Europe, is expanding in  emerging
markets  to boost earnings following the financial crisis. The
insurer has repeatedly said that it’s focused on organic growth,
ruling out a capital increase.  “I have no intention of submitting to the motion of no-
confidence that Mediobanca has already informed me will be
presented to me or of resigning my post of group chief
executive,” Perissinotto wrote.  Intern  Perissinotto joined Generali as an intern at the company’s
U.K. branch in 1979. He was appointed co-CEO in 2001 and sole
CEO in 2010. The Financial Times reported the attempted ouster
yesterday on its website.  Generali needs new management which can focus on the
insurer’s main business and avoid financial investments,
Luxottica Group SpA founder and Generali investor Leonardo Del Vecchio told  Corriere della Sera  in an interview in April.  Del Vecchio, who owns a 3 percent stake in Generali, is
among shareholders calling for Perissinotto’s replacement, one
of the people said. Francesco Gaetano Caltagirone, with a 2.3
percent stake, and Lorenzo Pellicioli, CEO of De Agostini SpA,
which owns a 2.4 percent stake, also back the ouster, the person
said.  Mediobanca is leading a rescue plan for Fondiaria-Sai SpA,
the country’s second-biggest insurer after Generali, by
supporting a proposal of Unipol Gruppo Finanziario SpA to carry
out a merger.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  