-- Edwards Said Not Likely to Face Retrial in Campaign Case
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n ,   J o h n   P e r a g i n e   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-06-01T14:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/edwards-not-guilty-of-one-count-mistrial-on-five-others-1-.html
Former presidential candidate  John Edwards  isn’t likely to be retried for using illegal campaign
contributions to hide an extramarital affair after a jury
acquitted him on one count and failed to reach a verdict on five
others, according to a person familiar with the matter.  A federal jury of four women and eight men in Greensboro,
North Carolina, yesterday found Edwards not guilty of one count
of violating campaign finance laws. On that charge, the U.S.
alleged that in January 2008, about the same time he withdrew
from the campaign, Edwards knowingly accepted more money from
campaign donor Rachel “Bunny” Mellon than was allowed by law.  U.S. District Judge Catherine Eagles declared a mistrial on
the five other counts. The government has the option of retrying
him.  The U.S. Justice Department isn’t likely to retry Edwards,
said the person familiar with the matter, who wasn’t authorized
to discuss the case publicly and didn’t want to be identified.  Edwards, a Democrat who was U.S. Senator  John Kerry ’s
running mate in the 2004 presidential election, faced a maximum
of 30 years in prison if convicted on all counts.  Edwards, who didn’t testify, appeared on the courthouse
steps after the verdict flanked by his oldest daughter, Cate,
and his parents. He thanked his family for standing with him
throughout the case and acknowledged Frances Quinn, the daughter
he fathered with his mistress,  Rielle Hunter .  “My precious Quinn,” Edwards said. “I love her more than
you could ever imagine.”  “While I do not believe I did anything illegal or ever
thought I was doing anything illegal, I did an awful, awful lot
that was wrong and there is no one else responsible for my
sins,” he told reporters.  Unemployed Filmmaker  Prosecutors alleged Edwards used almost $1 million in
payments from Mellon, a 101-year-old multimillionaire heiress,
and  Fred Baron , a now-deceased trial attorney, to conceal his
affair with Hunter, an unemployed filmmaker. The case marks the
first time the government has prosecuted someone for campaign
violations when money was paid to a third party.  The donations, in 2007 and 2008, were used to cover rent,
medical visits and prenatal expenses for Hunter, in addition to
travel and hotel accommodations to hide her from the public.  Prosecutors declined to comment on yesterday’s verdict.
Abbe Lowell, an attorney for Edwards, also declined to comment.
Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said she had no
comment.  Juror Comments  Juror Ladonna Foster told the NBC’s “Today” that the
prosecution failed to meet its burden of proof. Foster and
another juror, Cindy Aquaro, both said on the show that they
believed Edwards was guilty of breaking campaign finance rules.  “He was just smart enough to hide it and we could not find
the evidence,” Aquaro said.  “This case was a monumental waste of time from day one,”
said Kenneth Gross, a former lawyer for the  Federal Election
Commission  who’s now a partner at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher &
Flom LLP in  Washington . “The case should never have been
brought.”  Gross was involved in the case when Edwards was first
indicted. Other Skadden Arps lawyers worked on Edwards’s
defense.  Jurors deliberated for nine days before reaching a verdict.
Their initial notes to the judge requested exhibits that focused
on Mellon, including an April 2007 letter Mellon sent suggesting
Edwards send her “all bills” necessary and important for his
campaign. The note was sent after media reports criticizing the
price of Edwards’s haircuts.  ‘Clear-Cut Evidence’  “The verdict reflects a struggle that the jury appears to
have had in finding some clear-cut evidence of criminality,”
said  Robert Mintz , a former federal prosecutor who’s now a
partner with McCarter & English LLP. “They could not agree, no
matter how morally reprehensible his conduct was, that it added
up to a criminal violation.”  Edwards, a former U.S. senator from  North Carolina  and
presidential contender in 2008, was indicted last June after a
two-year investigation. He has claimed that he never thought he
was breaking the law and that the disputed payments were gifts,
the fruit of his pre-existing friendships with Mellon and Baron.  In 2008,  Andrew Young , a former Edwards campaign aide,
cashed two checks from Mellon totaling $375,000. Both checks
were deposited into a bank account belonging to Young and his
wife, Cheri, after Edwards suspended his campaign for president,
according to defense exhibits entered as evidence during the
trial.  Mellon Checks  Mellon wrote one of the checks for $175,000 in December
2007 after asking her longtime attorney Alex Forger for help in
making it out. When asked about the purpose of the check, Mellon
told Forger it was “for the benefit of John Edwards,” Forger
testified during the trial. Mellon acknowledged she knew the
limits on campaign donations in that conversation and said the
money was a personal contribution and obviously a gift, Forger
testified.  Much of the four-week trial focused on Young’s role. Young,
who testified under an immunity agreement, said he helped plan
and coordinate multiple transactions between Edwards, Baron and
Mellon over a period of months. He testified that Edwards
targeted other supporters before agreeing on Mellon and assured
him the plan to support Hunter was legal.  Defense lawyers argued that Young was an opportunist who
approached Mellon on his own and used most of the money she
provided for vacations, cars and a $1.5 million home in  Chapel
Hill , North Carolina.  Enters Politics  Edwards, who made his fortune as a personal-injury lawyer,
entered politics two years after the death of his 16-year-old
son, Wade, in an automobile accident by defeating Republican
U.S. Senator Lauch Faircloth of North Carolina in 1998. He
served one term in the Senate before seeking the Democratic
nomination in the 2004 presidential election, eventually signing
on as Kerry’s running mate.  In December 2007, when Edwards was again seeking the
presidential nomination, photographers took pictures of a
pregnant Hunter leaving a North Carolina supermarket. Already
the subject of tabloid reports of an extramarital affair,
Edwards needed a way to protect his nomination chances and
persuaded Young to claim paternity, prosecutors said.  In January 2008, Edwards withdrew as a presidential
candidate. The baby, Frances Quinn, was born in February 2008.
In August of that year, Edwards publicly acknowledged the
relationship with Hunter. He acknowledged his paternity the
following year.  Elizabeth Edwards , his wife, died of cancer in
2010.  Paternity Ruse  Young said he went along with the paternity ruse because he
wanted Edwards to be president.  “Being friends with the most powerful person on earth has
benefits,” he testified.  In all, Mellon wrote checks totaling more than $725,000,
prosecutors said. The checks were made payable to an interior
decorator who endorsed them and sent them to the Youngs,
prosecutors said. The money went toward a monthly allowance of
$5,000 to $6,000, a BMW for Hunter and the rental of a house in
a gated community in Chapel Hill.  The Federal Election Act prohibits using campaign funds for
personal expenses and caps the amount an individual may
contribute to a candidate. In the 2008 presidential primary,
that limit was $2,300.  Election Commission  Eagles refused to let Edwards show the jury a 2009 letter
from the  Justice Department  that stated the government wouldn’t
prosecute someone if the Federal Election Commission found no
criminal liability. Eagles also denied a defense request to
admit a recording of an FEC meeting in July 2011 during which
commissioners said the payments in dispute weren’t campaign
donations.  Scott E. Thomas, a 20-year veteran of the Federal Election
Commission and past chairman, testified that the payment of
living, medical and other expenses of a candidate’s mistress
isn’t a campaign-related expense.  In September, advocacy group Citizens for Responsibility
and Ethics in Washington filed court papers in support of
Edwards, arguing that prosecutors were improperly applying
election laws to seek a criminal conviction. Payments that would
have gone to a candidate regardless of the candidacy aren’t
subject to campaign laws, the group said.  ‘Black Eye’  CREW Executive Director  Melanie Sloan  applauded the trial
outcome as a “black eye” for the Justice Department and a
“knockout punch” for its Public Integrity Section. The public
integrity unit came under scrutiny for its handling of the
corruption case against the late Senator  Ted Stevens , an Alaska
Republican.  “It’s hard to imagine DOJ will retry Edwards, but given
the choice to bring this case in the first place, anything is
possible,” Sloan said in a statement.  Mark Lanier , a Houston-based plaintiffs’ lawyer who said he
was friends with the former senator and his late wife, said
Edwards probably won’t be able to return to his litigation
practice.  “It will be really hard for him to ever set foot in a
courtroom again,” said Lanier, who won the first jury award
against Merck & Co. in the litigation over side effects from its
Vioxx painkiller in 2005.  Lanier, 51, also was friends with Baron, a Dallas-based
plaintiffs’ lawyer who made millions of dollars representing
asbestos claimants. Lanier said he represented Baron’s wife,
attorney Lisa Blue, in connection with the government’s probe of
the payments for Hunter’s upkeep.  Lanier said Edwards could try to work as a mediator or
become an adviser to a  law firm .  “But I’d say his future as a trial lawyer is finished,”
he said. “He would be too much of a lightning rod. Every hand
in the jury pool might go up when the judge asks if anyone knows
the lawyers in the case.”  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of North Carolina (Greensboro).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Peragine in federal court in Greensboro, North Carolina, at
 drjohnnd@hotmail.com ;
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  