-- Efes Looks for Brewery Acquisitions in Former-Soviet Markets
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-05-31T13:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/efes-looks-for-brewery-acquisitions-in-former-soviet-markets-1-.html
Anadolu Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayii
AS, (AEFES)  Turkey’s dominant beer producer, is seeking acquisitions in
former-Soviet and eastern European markets after becoming
 Russia ’s second-largest brewer in a $1.9 billion deal.  Anadolu Efes, which bought  SABMiller Plc’s (SAB)  Russian and
Ukrainian business last year, also plans to either build a new
brewery in Turkey or expand one of five existing manufacturing
sites in the country over the next three years, Alejandro Jimenez, president for beer operations, said in an interview at
the company’s Istanbul head office yesterday.  Expansion outside of Turkey is a priority for Anadolu Efes,
which controls about 85 percent of the country’s beer market. In
Russia, where the brewer trails only  Carlsberg A/S, (CARLB)  the company
is relying on a rebound in beer consumption, which has been
declining because of a 200 percent tax increase at the start of
2010 and restrictions on alcohol advertising.  “We are continuously looking for opportunities to grow
inorganically in the countries that we operate in or in nearby
countries,” Jimenez said. “We are especially interested in CIS
countries because we have been operating there for nearly 20
years. There is no timetable for the moment.”  Anadolu Efes considered bidding for StarBev LP, a Central
European brewer bought by  Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP) , though the
$3.5 billion price tag was too expensive, Jimenez said.  SABMiller Stake  SABMiller, the world’s second-largest brewer by volume, has
a 24 percent stake in Anadolu Efes after transferring its
eastern European beer businesses to the Turkish company. The
London-based company may increase its stake in future, Jimenez
said, though control will remain with the Ozilhan and Yazici
families that founded the brewer in the 1950s and still own 43
percent.  About three-quarters of the beer produced by the company
will be sold outside of Turkey, mostly in Russia, after the
SABMiller transaction, Jimenez said. Previously, the proportion
of non-Turkish volume was more than 60 percent, he said.  Anadolu Efes has about 20 percent of the Russian market by
revenue and 18 percent by volume, the executive said. Per-capita
consumption in Russia of about 70 liters of beer a year on
average is higher than about 13 liters in  Turkey , he said.  The Russian beer market will probably decline in “low-
single digits” this year, while the company expects the volume
of beer sold in the country to be unchanged, Jimenez said.  Advertising Ban  Russian consumers are expected to turn to beer from high-
alcohol spirits such as vodka and the beer market there will
likely begin growing from next year, Jimenez said.  Anadolu Efes expects sales volume in Turkey to grow 1
percent to 2 percent this year, parallel to the market, Jimenez
said. The company began introducing new premium beer brands
including Peroni there and will introduce more this year.  Turkey, which banned television and radio advertising of
alcoholic beverages nearly two decades ago, also has a draft law
pending parliament’s approval to increase tax on alcoholic
beverages and tobacco every six months in line with inflation.  Overwhelmingly Muslim Turkey, run by Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s Islamic-rooted Justice and Development Party,
has the third-highest excise tax in  Europe  after Finland and
Russia, according to a  research note  by Istanbul-based Is
Investment, citing an Ernst & Young report.  “We can deal with the restrictions by means of the very
strong brand portfolio that we have,” Jimenez said. Anadolu
Efes’s mainstream brands and premium brands from SABMiller will
“have a better penetration to customers in Russia,” he said.  Tax increase plans by the Turkish and Russian governments
“give us some visibility that we can deal with them,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  