-- EFG-Hermes Received Offer to Buy Shares from Planet IB
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-05-31T15:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/efg-hermes-received-offer-to-buy-shares-from-planet-ib.html
Planet Investment Banking  said it
raised $650 million in debt and a “lower amount” in equity for
a possible bid to take over Egyptian investment bank  EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE. (HRHO)   “The only thing between us and a public tender offer is
due diligence,” Chief Executive Officer Ahmed El Houssieny
said. “Right now we’re actually oversubscribed in our
investment fund. Our debt is fully arranged. We’re ready to
tango.”  Cairo-based EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, whose co-chief
executive officers were referred to trial yesterday, said it
received an offer last night from Planet to buy all of the
company’s shares. The interest comes before shareholders of EFG-
Hermes, which has a market value of $869 million, vote on June 2
on an agreement to create an investment bank with Qatar’s
QInvest LLC. The shares of EFG-Hermes, the biggest publicly
traded Arab investment bank, rose the most in almost four weeks.  The timing of the offer “had to be adjacent to the”
shareholders meeting, said El Houssieny, a former managing
partner at Cairo-based private equity firm  Citadel Capital SAE. (CCAP) 
Planet is backed by domestic, international and regional
investors, including Sheikh Tariq Bin Faisal Al Qassimi, a
member of the ruling family of Sharjah in the  United Arab
Emirates , as well as a “huge institutional investor out of
Bahrain,” he said.  ‘Right Mind’  The shares  advanced 3.5 percent, the most since May 7, to
10.97 Egyptian pounds at the close in Cairo. They were suspended
for three of the four trading hours on the Egyptian Exchange
pending the release of more information about Planet’s offer.  EFG-Hermes said Planet didn’t disclose the price in
yesterday’s letter. The Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority
hasn’t received an offer from Planet, Chairman Ashraf El Sharkawy said today.  “The seriousness of the offer is going to depend on the
management allowing us to conduct due diligence, because any
proper investor in their right mind isn’t going to bid for a
company without conducting due diligence,” El Houssieny said.  EFG-Hermes said May 4 it agreed to start an investment bank
that will be 60 percent owned by Doha-based QInvest, a unit of
 Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK) , which will invest $250 million in the
venture. The deal is yet to receive regulatory approval.  Mubarak Sons  Planet’s offer comes after the public prosecutor’s office
said yesterday that EFG-Hermes’ Hassan Heikal and Yasser Al Mallawany were charged with illicit gains related to the 2007
sale of  El Watany Bank of Egypt . EFG-Hermes has denied the
charges, which centered around the lack of disclosure of trading
activities and involved seven others including Alaa and  Gamal Mubarak , the sons of former president  Hosni Mubarak .
Mallawany and Heikal didn’t respond to calls and text messages
seeking comment.  Sheikh Al Qassimi is chairman of Emirates Investments Group
LLC, according to the company’s website. A call placed after
business hours in the U.A.E. to the headquarters of the group
wasn’t answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  