-- Megaupload Asks Court to Dismiss U.S. Criminal Copyright Case
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/megaupload-seeks-dismissal-of-u-s-criminal-copyright-case.html
Megaupload.com asked for dismissal of
U.S. criminal charges that the file-sharing website illegally
distributed copyrighted movies and music in a
$175 million copyright conspiracy.  Megaupload Limited, as a foreign corporation without
offices in the U.S., can’t be prosecuted for violations of the
country’s law, the company said in a filing yesterday in federal
court in Alexandria,  Virginia .  “In short, a corporation such as Megaupload cannot be
brought within the jurisdiction of this court for criminal
proceedings absent its consent,” the company said in court
papers.  Megaupload.com and founder Kim Dotcom, 38, were indicted in
what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a “Mega Conspiracy” involving the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. The
company and Dotcom were charged with multiple criminal copyright
and wire fraud counts, according to a revised indictment issued
in February. Dotcom faces as long as 20 years in prison for each
of the racketeering and money-laundering charges in the
indictment.  New Zealand  Dotcom was arrested at his residence in New Zealand in late
January and spent four weeks in jail before being released to
await an extradition hearing, currently scheduled for Aug. 20.  A  New Zealand  court on May 29 granted Dotcom access to
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  files that led to his arrest.
Judge David Harvey in that case ruled that withholding the
information could threaten Dotcom’s right to a fair trial,
according to a copy of the ruling e-mailed to Bloomberg News.
The U.S. government opposed the disclosure.  In a separate May 29 court ruling, German-born Dotcom was
allowed to return to his leased luxury mansion in an Auckland
suburb after his bail terms were relaxed.  Alisa Finelli, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment on Megaupload’s court filing.  The case is U.S. v. Dotcom, 12-cr-00003, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  