-- Telefonica German IPO Plan Follows Path Filled With Flops
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-06-01T09:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/telefonica-german-ipo-plan-follows-path-filled-with-flops.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s plan for an initial
public offering of its O2 Germany unit follows a course that has
failed to reap rewards for competitors over the past decade.  France Telecom SA (FTE) , which raised 6.3 billion euros ($7.8
billion) selling shares in its Orange division in 2001, offered
to buy them back at a loss two years later.  Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. (13)  in 2006 pulled a stock sale for its Italian business, while
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  had considered listing  T-Mobile USA  before a
botched attempt to sell the unit last year. Belgium’s  Mobistar
SA (MOBB)  and  Sonaecom SGPS SA (SNC)  of Portugal, two single-market European
operators still listed, are trading below their IPO prices.  Telefonica said this week it will explore share sales for
O2  Germany  and its Latin American businesses as Spain’s largest
phone company speeds up attempts to cut its net debt of more
than 57 billion euros. The prospect of owning a minority stake
in the No. 3 of four mobile operators in Germany, a market with
more handsets than people, has left investors unconvinced.  “It’s going to be a protracted sale and a bit of a long
shot,” said Henri Alexaline, a fixed-income investor who helps
manage $1 billion at London-based FM Capital Partners Ltd.
“It’s taken them a long time before taking the initiative. That
leaves them little option but to go for their trophy assets in
order to monetize anything.”  Valuable Assets  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta, with his company’s
net debt greater than its market value, is turning to some of
Telefonica’s most valuable assets after  Standard & Poor’s  last
week cut the Madrid-based phone operator’s  credit rating  to two
levels above junk.  The cost of insuring against a failure by Telefonica to pay
its debts jumped to a record today, as credit-default swaps on
the company rose 13 basis points, or 2.7 percent, to a record
481, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price of the
contracts climbed 33 percent in May, the biggest monthly
increase since November.  Telefonica  rose  0.4 percent to 8.97 euros as of 11:13 a.m.
in  Madrid . That pared the stock’s drop this year to 33 percent
to value the company at 41.3 billion euros, compared with
Telefonica’s market value of 110 billion euros in 2007.  Boris Boehm , who helps manage 1.1 billion euros including
Telefonica shares at Aramea Asset Management in Hamburg, says
the IPO plans aren’t helped by the fact that the operator’s need
for cash is too obvious.  ‘Poker Game’  “If everyone knows that Telefonica needs money out of the
IPO, I would say it’s not a wise idea,” he said, adding that he
wouldn’t be interested in buying O2 Germany’s stock. “It’s like
in a poker game, if everyone knows what your cards are, it’s not
a good game to play.”  Alierta, who spent about $85 billion on acquisitions since
taking over in 2000, is struggling to stem customer defections
to discounters in Spain as the country is mired in a banking
crisis. He has so far relied on reorganizing and selling smaller
assets such as the Colombian unit, satellite company Hispasat SA
and Portugal’s Zon Multimedia SGPS SA, steps that have fallen
short of helping the company meet its debt reduction target.
S&P’s  rating cut , to BBB, further increases the cost of
borrowing for the former phone monopoly.  Market Consolidation  A German IPO plan may pave the way for a combination of O2
Germany with local rival E-Plus, owned by  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , said two
people familiar with the Spanish company’s thinking, who asked
not to be named as the matter is not public.  Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB this week began
a 2.6 billion-euro offer to increase its stake in The Hague,
Netherlands-based KPN. Telefonica’s finance chief, Angel Vila,
told an investor conference in  London  yesterday that Telefonica
has no plan to make a counter bid for KPN, according to two
people who attended the meeting, who asked not to be identified
because the meeting is private. Telefonica declined to comment.  “To get any sort of premium valuation, you have to be
thinking at some point if I buy into this, I’m going to benefit
from intra-market consolidation,” said Andrew Hogley, a London-
based analyst at  Espirito Santo  Investment Bank.  KPN said today it will conduct a strategy review of E-Plus.
KPN CEO Eelco Blok said as recently as November that a
combination of E-Plus and O2 Germany could generate 3 billion
euros in synergies, even though Telefonica wasn’t willing to
sell.  Consolidation Question  Heinrich Ey, a  fund manager  at Allianz Global Investors in
Frankfurt, which manages about 300 billion euros including
Telefonica and Deutsche Telekom shares, said the Spanish company
had to “rush and react” after S&P’s cut and Slim’s KPN bid.
“The big question down the road is on consolidation,” he said.  O2 Germany and E-Plus compete with the two larger operators
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and Deutsche Telekom in Europe’s largest
wireless market. O2’s market share of service revenue at about
15 percent was little changed in the last three years.  “What’s the story? There’s no growth story in European
mobile,” Espirito Santo’s Hogley said. “Germany on its own
becomes a bit peripheral.”  While Germany has been less affected by the region’s debt
crisis, growth of its wireless market is also slower because
more consumers already own a mobile phone.  German Subscribers  German mobile-phone subscriptions rose 4.8 percent in 2011,
compared with growth of 5.6 percent in all of Europe, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Wireless penetration
reached 139 percent in 2011 compared with 130.3 percent for the
region.  Telefonica’s German business, its second-largest European
market with 25 million subscribers, may be valued at as much as
9 billion euros, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   By listing a stake in the unit, Telefonica is going against
the trend of operators seeking to divest minority holdings in
favor of full ownership of assets. Vodafone has sold stakes in
France and Poland, while  France Telecom  has disposed of assets
in Switzerland and is exiting Austria.  Telefonica this week also cut the cash portion of its 2012
dividend by 69 percent. Investors in the German unit may
themselves demand a payout, said Paul Marsch, an analyst at
Berenberg Bank in London.  “Listing the asset like this might solve your problem in
terms of giving you increased liquidity at a time of huge
uncertainty, but it’s not cost free,” Marsch said. “That begs
the question as to management thinking and strategy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  