-- Televisa, Mexican Cable Companies Seek Third TV Network
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-05-31T23:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/televisa-mexico-cable-industry-call-for-new-broadcast-network.html
Mexico ’s cable industry called for
the creation of a third television network, a sign that the
nation’s dominant broadcaster, Grupo Televisa SAB, is growing
more comfortable with the idea of new competition.  National Cable Telecommunications Chamber President
 Alejandro Puente , speaking at the industry’s annual gathering,
called on Mexican President  Felipe Calderon  to auction airwaves
to create a new  broadcast network . Mexico City-based Televisa is
a member of the chamber and owns three of Mexico’s largest
cable-TV carriers.  “We propose that President Calderon support the tender of
a third national channel of broadcast television, which surely
would provide fresh air for our public life and would allow the
opening of greater means of freedom of expression for
citizens,” Puente said yesterday in Acapulco, Mexico.  The pronouncement by the chamber, known as Canitec, follows
an opinion column in March by Televisa Chairman  Emilio Azcarraga , who said his company wouldn’t oppose the creation of
multiple new TV networks.  Azcarraga, who attended yesterday’s event, posted a message
on his  Twitter  account today, saying he is “in agreement” with
Canitec’s call for a new broadcast network. “Yes to the third
TV network,” he wrote.  Televisa commands about 70 percent of Mexico’s broadcast
audience, with almost all of the rest belonging to TV Azteca
SAB. Dan McCosh, a spokesman for the smaller network, declined
to comment.  Mexico’s Federal Telecommunications Commission is studying
plans for an auction of airwaves suitable for TV broadcasting
after failing to agree on a plan in January.  Televisa shares were little changed at 54.6 pesos today in
Mexico City. Azteca rose 1.4 percent to 8.65 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  