-- Ellison Says Oracle Looked at Buddy Media Before Vitrue
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/ellison-says-oracle-looked-at-buddy-media-before-vitrue.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  looked at Buddy Media
Inc. before agreeing last week to acquire Vitrue, a social-media
marketing company, Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  said.  “Companies want to advertise on Facebook,” Ellison said
yesterday at the D: All Things Digital conference in  Rancho
Palos Verdes , California. “They want to roll out their products
on Facebook. They want to know what people are saying about
their products on Facebook.”  All Things Digital  reported  this week that Oracle rival
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  was close to an agreement to acquire closely
held Buddy Media, another social-media brand management company.  Oracle is the world’s largest maker of  database software 
and second-largest maker of business applications after SAP AG.
More recently, the company, which Ellison co-founded in 1977,
has been branching into computer servers through its $7.4
billion acquisition of Sun Microsystems Inc. in 2010.  The company has spent more than $40 billion on more than 70
acquisitions since 2005, when it bought the human-resources
software maker PeopleSoft Inc. On May 23, Oracle said it would
buy closely held Vitrue for an undisclosed price.  The shopping spree has helped fuel a  35 percent  rise in
Oracle’s stock price in the past five years.  Social Media  Processing data from websites such as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and
Twitter Inc. is increasingly important to marketers and a new
use for Oracle’s database, Ellison said.  “It’s an important new way of understanding consumer
behavior,” Ellison said. “For the first time in our industry,
the consumer part of our industry is bigger than the corporate
part. Corporate continues to grow, but with the advent of
smartphones and the incredible rise of Apple we see consumer
computer processing as a larger business.”  Ellison said Oracle will release a cloud-computing service
for its business applications, which the company first announced
in October, at a June 6 event at its headquarters in  Redwood
City , California. The service is meant to help Oracle compete
with companies including SAP, Salesforce.com and Workday Inc.  Salesforce’s online software is a formidable competitor to
Oracle, Ellison said, while he dismissed Workday’s products as
“frail.”  “Whenever we have a head-to-head with Workday in the cloud,
our human resources versus their human resources, we almost
always win,” he said. “I’m not worried about them.”  Cloud Computing  Oracle’s cloud-computing service will include its new
Fusion business applications, as well as software from acquired
companies Taleo Corp. and RightNow Technologies Inc., running on
Oracle’s servers. Customers will be able to access the
applications, as well as database software and Java middleware,
over the Internet, Ellison said.  Ellison also said he wishes  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  CEO Meg Whitman “nothing but the best” -- a departure from competitive
moves Oracle made when  Leo Apotheker  was leading Hewlett-
Packard. Whitman took over as CEO in September.  “I think Meg was a big improvement and I wish her luck,”
he said. “I hope she does well for the benefit of HP’s
customers and employees.”  Ellison, second on Bloomberg’s  tech billionaires  list after
Microsoft Corp. Chairman  Bill Gates , is worth $33.7 billion, up
2.3 percent since the beginning of the year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  An America’s Cup-winning yachtsman known for an extravagant
lifestyle, Ellison, 67, has spent hundreds of millions of
dollars on real estate, including a home in Woodside,
California, modeled on 16th-century Japanese feudal
architecture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  