-- Ellison Says Legacy of Apple’s Jobs Compares to Picasso
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/ellison-says-legacy-of-apple-s-jobs-compares-to-picasso.html
Oracle Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  compared  Steve Jobs  to some of history’s greatest
thinkers in his first public statements about his friend since
the Apple Inc.co-founder died in October.  “Steve would translate good ideas into brilliant finished
products,” Ellison said yesterday at the D: All Things Digital
conference. “He really was a creative artist, engineer,
entrepreneur unlike anyone.”  Ellison joined technology journalist Walt Mossberg and Ed Catmull, president of Pixar and longtime Jobs collaborator, in a
discussion on the legacy of the Apple legend before a packed
audience of technology industry executives at the Rancho Palos
Verdes, California, conference.  Like other luminaries of various fields, Jobs’s obsessive
attention to detail and focus on completing tasks meant that he
would demand greatness from himself and others, Ellison said,
comparing Jobs to  Pablo Picasso , Albert Einstein and inventor
Henry Ford.  “Obsessive-compulsive personalities are not all that rare
among successful people,” he said. “Steve was brutal because
he wanted the product to be great.”  Some of Jobs’s greatest victories came from addressing
problems that others in business avoided, such as the company’s
decision to open retail stores to sell its products in 2001.  “The stores are another example of him noticing everyone
talking about bricks and mortar being dead, and Steve saying,
‘maybe not,’” Ellison said.  Teasing Phone Call  Though Jobs generally didn’t care about financial metrics,
Ellison recalled Jobs teasing him in a phone call the day Apple
passed Oracle in market capitalization.  “Jobs was proud of it, but it was not a motivator for him
at all,” Ellison said at the conference. “It was a measure
that he was doing the right things, that people loved the
products and they were buying a lot of them.”  Jobs’s 1985 ouster from the company he created serves as a
warning to the younger leaders of the industry including
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  CEO  Mark Zuckerberg  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  co-founders
 Larry Page  and Sergey Brin. All have retained voting control
over their boards.  “Look at the geniuses in Silicon Valley right now,”
Ellison said. “They don’t trust their boards anymore.”  Still, most qualities of the Apple founder cannot be
copied, Ellison said. “To model yourself after Steve Jobs is
like, ‘I’d like to paint like Picasso, what should I do? Should
I use more red?’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  