-- Merck, Pfizer Back Lawmakers Who Oppose Company Products
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-05-31T16:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/merck-pfizer-back-lawmakers-who-oppose-company-products.html
There was plenty of debate about the
new health-care law in the 2010 congressional elections while
little, if any, on  birth control .  Today, the  drug industry’s  trade group is finding that it
helped elect Republican lawmakers who are seeking to limit
access to contraceptives sold by its members. Even so, the drug
industry is supporting their re-elections.  The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America,
which counts among its members four of the seven biggest sellers
of birth control drugs and devices, gave $4.8 million in 2010 to
Republican-leaning nonprofits that helped elect 23 lawmakers,
all of whom later voted to limit access to birth control and
reduce federal funding for it.  Those companies earned $1.7 billion selling contraceptives,
potentially putting themselves in the position of hurting their
own bottom lines by backing politicians looking to eliminate a
revenue source for sales.  “They’re undermining their own products,” said Shelley Alpern, vice president of Boston-based Trillium Asset
Management, whose holdings include  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , a member
of Phrma that sells birth control drugs. “It’s very disturbing.
At best case, it’s a matter of the left hand not knowing what
the right hand is doing.”  Eliminating Federal Funding  The drug industry has many concerns in Washington besides
contraception, such as working against proposals to allow drugs
to be imported from Canada and enabling the federal government
to negotiate lower prices for Medicare recipients. Momentum for
those ideas, backed by many Democrats, stalled as the White
House negotiated with industries in 2009 for support of the
health-care law.  The Republican-led challenge to federal funding for
contraception emerged as part of an effort to reduce federal
domestic  spending . In February 2011,  House Republicans  voted to
end funding for Title X, the $317 million program that provides
family-planning services, including contraceptives, to lower-
income individuals.  That same legislation eliminated all federal funding for
Planned Parenthood, for which contraception accounted for one-
third of its patient visits in 2010, second only to testing for
sexually-transmitted diseases, according to the group’s annual
report.  Oral Contraceptives  The group provided oral contraceptives to 40 percent of the
2.2 million patients who sought birth control, the report said.
Abortion procedures, which animate Republican opposition to
Planned Parenthood, accounted for 3 percent of its services, the
report stated.  Only seven House Republicans opposed the Planned Parenthood
funding cut and just three voted against final passage of the
measure that included the two provisions.  Senate Republicans in March tried unsuccessfully to enact
legislation allowing employees to exclude birth control and
other health services from plans provided to workers if they
conflict with moral or religious beliefs. The measure was
blocked when all but two Democrats opposed it. The proposal was
a response to a rule from President  Barack Obama ’s
administration requiring health insurers to provide
contraception without charge for covered employees of
religiously affiliated institutions such as hospitals and
universities. Houses of worship were exempted from the rule.  Presumed Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  has
vowed to end federal funding to Planned Parenthood, while not
seeking to curb a woman’s ability to use contraceptives obtained
elsewhere.  American Action Network  According to Internal Revenue Service records, Phrma
donated $300,000 in 2010 to the American Future Fund and $4.5
million to the American Action Network, which represented its
largest contribution in at least three years. The two
Republican-leaning nonprofits spent $27 million to help
candidates in the 2010 election, according to the  Federal
Election Commission .  The trade group also donated $3.4 million in 2010 to the
Democratic-leaning Citizens for Strength and Security.  A spokesman for Washington-based Phrma,  Matt Bennett , said
the trade association doesn’t restrict its giving to groups that
it agrees with on every issue.  “We provide support to organizations who share our mission
of increasing access to innovative medicines,” Bennett said.
“When we work with an organization or provide support, it is
done in areas of common interest.”  Ensuring Access  The  drug industry  is giving to ensure itself a seat at the
table, not to elect candidates who favor its position on every
issue, said  Dan Mendelson , chief executive officer of Avalere
Health LLC, a Washington research company.  “Political giving is not a precise science,” Mendelson
said. “The political giving enables a voice. It does not ensure
compliance with a policy position.”  For the 2012 congressional races, Phrma’s PAC has given 56
percent of its donations to re-elect Republican members --
including those who supported the funding cuts, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group that tracks campaign contributions.  In addition to Johnson & Johnson, Phrma members  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) ,  Bayer AG (BAYN) , and  Merck & Co. Inc. (MRK)  sell birth-control products
such as estrogen, IUDs or so-called morning after pills known as
Plan B, according to IMS Health, a health-care information and
services company in Danbury, Connecticut.  A spokesman for New York-based Pfizer,  Peter O’Toole , said
the company doesn’t tell Phrma how to spend its money, including
which outside groups to support.  Merck Donations  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck & Co. gave $7
million to Phrma in 2010, according to the company’s voluntary
disclosures. The company’s contraceptive product NuvaRing
brought in $486 million in revenue last year, according to IMS
Health.  “Merck doesn’t monitor how groups spend contributions nor
does it place conditions on its giving,” said Kelley Dougherty,
a spokeswoman. “Merck does actively monitor independent
political expenditures made by associations or other tax-exempt
groups where the issue relates to pharmaceutical policy. We do
not plan to condition our membership specifically on an
association’s decision relative to its policy on reporting
independent expenditures.”  PAC Donations  All four companies’ political action committees have also
made more donations to Republican House members, including those
who support eliminating federal funding for birth-control
coverage and access, than Democrats in the 2012 election.  A fifth company PAC, Parsippany, New Jersey-based  Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , another leading maker of contraceptives
that isn’t a member of Phrma, has given almost two-thirds of its
campaign dollars to House and Senate Republicans, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group.  Because Watson provides low-cost, generic contraceptives,
“we’re really not involved in this debate,” said Charlie Mayr,
a spokesman. “We already offer consumers a very cost-effective
option.”  Of the remaining two companies counted among the top seven
contraceptive-makers,  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  has
given a majority of its 2012 PAC donations to Democrats even as
its chairman hosted a fundraiser for Romney. Denise Bradley, a
spokeswoman for Teva, had no comment. The other company,  Warner
Chilcott PLC (WCRX)  of Dublin, Ireland, doesn’t have a PAC.  ‘Very Committed’  “Does the pharmaceutical industry support open access to
contraceptives? Sure,” Mendelson said. “Does the
pharmaceutical industry give money to the  Republican Party ?
Sure. The pharmaceutical industry also supports the leadership
of the  Democratic Party . That leadership is very committed to
open access to contraception.”  Alpern said companies need to weigh in on how trade groups
they support spend their money, especially when it could hurt
revenues.  “When they tell us they don’t always agree with everything
the trade association does, more and more it’s sounding
disingenuous,” she said. “Companies should be looking at their
trade associations. With all the scrutiny of companies’
political expenditures, it’s a way of doing things that isn’t
going to wash in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 