-- Merkel’s Isolation Deepens as Draghi Criticizes Strategy
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-06-01T07:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/merkel-s-isolation-deepens-as-draghi-criticzes-strategy.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  was
besieged by critics for letting the euro crisis smolder, with
the leaders of Italy and the  European Central Bank  demanding
bolder steps to stabilize the 17-nation economy.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and ECB President  Mario Draghi  pushed Germany to give up its opposition to direct euro-
area aid for struggling banks. Monti further antagonized Germany
by urging a roadmap to common borrowing.  Calling himself a devotee of German-style budgetary rigor,
Monti told a Brussels conference yesterday that Merkel’s vision
of a stable economy “risks being undermined because of lack of
promptness in setting up the necessary instruments to limit the
contagion.”  Financial markets offered a snapshot of Europe’s stresses
after more than two years of crisis, with the euro close to its
weakest in two years against the dollar. German  two-year note 
yields fell below zero today as investors paid for shelter from
the market mayhem afflicting  Italy  and  Spain .  Draghi told a European Parliament committee in Brussels
that without more aggressive action by policy makers the euro
“is being shown now to be unsustainable unless further steps
are being undertaken.”  He said it wasn’t his job to make up for the failures of
policy makers. “It’s not our duty, it’s not in our mandate” to
“fill the vacuum left by the lack of action by national
governments on the fiscal front,” on “the structural front,
and on the governance front,” he said.  Bank Aid  His comments yesterday came the day after the European
Commission proposed European-financed bank recapitalizations and
a timetable for euro bonds. Those ideas were rejected by
 Germany , Europe’s biggest economy and the chief underwriter of
386 billion euros ($477 billion) in aid offered since 2010.  Merkel, who hosts Russian President  Vladimir Putin  today,
put some nuance into the German position yesterday. While
promising “no taboos” in attacking the crisis, she floated a
timeline of “five to 10 years” for fixing flaws in a currency
shared by countries with divergent wealth and attitudes toward
taxing and spending.  Merkel lost her chief crisis-fighting ally last month when
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  was defeated by  Francois Hollande , a Socialist who challenged the pro-austerity doctrine
and called for a more activist central bank.  Obama Call  Monti joined Hollande in cornering Merkel in a conference
call this week with U.S. President  Barack Obama , who has
criticized  Europe  for failing to get to grips with the crisis.
The four-way call focused on “developments in Europe,” the
White House said in a statement.  Merkel’s international isolation goes along with a state of
political siege at home after her party was routed in elections
in Germany’s largest state. In office since 2005, she is one of
only five euro-area leaders to hold on to power since the crisis
broke out.  Monti, Draghi and Bank of Italy Governor Ignazio Visco
prodded Germany to back the proposal by the Brussels-based
commission, the EU’s executive branch, to allow the euro-area
bailout fund to support banks directly instead of channelling
the money via governments. The permanent fund, the European
Stability Mechanism, is due to come on line in July.  “People are actually working on finding ways that the ESM
could be used to recapitalize banks,” Draghi said. “The issue
is not so much the use of ESM money to recapitalize banks but
whether this could be done directly without having to go to
governments.”  ‘Big Pot’  With creditor countries including Germany and  Finland 
insisting they must be consulted before such funds are deployed,
Draghi said there is a risk that “we have a big pot of money
but nobody can touch it.”  Monti, a former economics professor who fought against
Italy’s culture of spending and inflation in the 1980s and
served for a decade on the commission in Brussels, said it is in
Germany’s own interest to shed its crisis-fighting inhibitions.  “Maybe I’m too German” in economic and fiscal policy,
Monti said. That credo and the imposition of budget cuts that
will put Italy in structural surplus next year give the non-
partisan Monti -- heading a technocratic government that will
expire in 2013 -- leverage in dealing with Merkel.  Italy’s extra 10-year borrowing costs over German levels
reached 470 basis points yesterday, the highest since January.
Monti said Italy is being punished for mistakes made elsewhere -
- and by prior Italian leaders that left him with debt of 123.5
percent of gross domestic product to work off.  “Countries that are at the core of the system and which
have had the huge merit of instilling the culture of stability
to the European Union in the first place, most notably Germany,
should really reflect deeply but quickly,” Monti said via video
link to the Brussels conference. “Europe should really
accelerate the efforts, as the European Commission is doing, in
order to limit the contagion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  