-- Merkel Says No Taboos on Euro Reform Steps to Calm Market
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-05-31T12:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/merkel-says-no-taboos-on-euro-reform-steps-to-calm-market.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said there
should be “no taboos” in plans to rescue  Europe ’s single
currency and euro-area leaders must step up their efforts to
convince financial markets that banks will be shielded.  Merkel said she welcomed recommendations made yesterday by
the European Commission, the European Union’s executive body,
which included allowing the permanent bailout fund to channel
aid directly to banks. Speaking in the Baltic Sea coast city of
Stralsund today, the chancellor signaled the EU could work more
closely to protect its banks, saying there are “possibilities
for greater cooperation.”  “We could certainly make clearer to international
financial markets what’s going on in Europe in terms of new
institutions and new possibilities in order to relieve the
concern that perhaps banks are unstable,” she told reporters.
While repeating that leaders should ditch “taboos,” she said
some recommendations being discussed would require a change in
EU treaties and the trajectory for reforms would be “in the
next five to 10 years.”  Merkel, under pressure from traditional allies in  Italy ,
 France  and the U.S. to shift her response to the debt crisis as
the market turbulence escalates, sought to make a show of unity,
saying that European leaders have a “common agenda” on budget
consolidation, structural overhauls and growth.  The German chancellor rejected the notion of a north-south
divide in Europe and again lauded Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  for taking steps to repair his country’s banking sector.  “I can’t say that” northern European countries closer to
the Baltic sphere “are a unified grouping,” Merkel said in
Stralsund, where she hosted a summit of leaders from the Council
of the Baltic Sea States. “There is a common agenda that we
don’t need to be divided over.”  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  called on Merkel
today to take steps to halt the crisis before a backlash builds
against budget cuts. Monti and Bank of Italy Governor Ignazio Visco pushed the German government to give up its opposition to
direct euro-area aid for hard-hit banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Stralsund, Germany at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  