-- ESRB Says Fiscal Crisis Poses Challenge to Insurance Companies
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-05-31T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/esrb-says-fiscal-crisis-poses-challenge-to-insurance-companies.html
The European Systemic Risk Board said
insurance companies and occupational pension funds aren’t immune
to consequences of the euro-area debt crisis on financial
markets.  “Their growing exposure to the interplay between sovereign
and bank risks is becoming a challenge, at least in terms of
risk concentration,” the ESRB said in its annual report
published in Frankfurt today. “The current low interest rate
environment may also cause difficulties for those insurance
companies and occupational pension funds that are contractually
obliged to offer a minimum return rate to policyholders and
prospective pensioners. If the current interest-rate conditions
deteriorate or remain in place for several years, fragilities in
the industry may come to light.”  The  European Central Bank  has cut  interest rates  to a
record low of 1 percent and flooded financial markets with more
than 1 trillion euros ($1.2 trillion) in cheap three-year loans
to head off a credit crunch, encourage lending to companies and
households and spur demand for unsecured bank debt.  As banks repay maturing debt and low-interest ECB funds,
“long-term investors are currently exposed to reinvestment
risk, in conditions where yields are generally low and
volatility high,” the ESRB said. “To what extent and how
quickly insurers change their investment patterns will influence
whether or not financial market conditions will stabilize and
have an impact on the overall credit supply.”  Challenging  The ESRB was “ confronted with an exceptionally
challenging economic and financial environment,” Chairman  Mario Draghi  said in the foreword of the report. “To address the
range of systemic risks that this entailed, it had to become
operational very quickly.”  The ESRB last year issued three public recommendations,
which focused on the macroprudential mandate of national
authorities, lending in foreign currencies, and U.S. dollar-
denominated funding of  credit institutions . It said today it is
“developing a framework for monitoring the implementation of
its recommendations.”  “It has already taken initial steps in this process, with
the establishment of a follow-up mechanism and the creation of a
dedicated space on its website, and further steps will follow,”
the ESRB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  