-- Esterline Seen Reaping 37% With Bid as Value Bemoaned: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-05-31T20:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/esterline-seen-reaping-37-with-bid-as-value-bemoaned-real-m-a.html
Esterline Technologies Corp. (ESL) , the
aerospace supplier facing pressure from one of its largest
investors to boost its valuation, is poised to hand shareholders
a return of at least 37 percent as a takeover target.  Relational Investors LLC, Esterline’s third-biggest
 stockholder , said last week that the company needs to improve
profitability and make better use of its capital as the shares
trade at a “substantial discount” to its potential takeover
price. Even after  rising  17 percent this year, the Bellevue,
Washington-based company was valued yesterday at a 7 percent
discount to analysts’ estimates for next year’s sales, a
multiple that’s 28 percent less than the average for North
American aerospace and defense parts makers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  While Esterline has more net  debt  relative to its earnings
than 91 percent of peers and generates the least profit from
each dollar of invested capital, Stephens Inc. said the company
could lure buyers as net income and sales climb to records this
year and next.  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  may be among interested acquirers
for the maker of parts used in stealth aircraft and commercial
jets, according to Penn Capital Management Co. Esterline, which
closed at $65.49 yesterday, may command at least $90 a share in
a takeover, said Stephens and Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Any of the big conglomerates that want to get bigger in
defense could find Esterline attractive,”  Eric Green , a
Philadelphia-based fund manager at Penn Capital, which oversees
$6 billion including Esterline shares, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s trading at a very attractive valuation and the
fundamentals and outlook are very good.”  Sensors, Systems  Shares of Esterline today fell 1.4 percent to $64.59.  Brian Keogh, a spokesman for Esterline, didn’t respond to
phone calls seeking comment.  The company, which traces its  roots  to Indianapolis in
1906, makes a range of products for the aerospace and defense
industries such as sensors, flight management systems and noise-
reduction headsets. It also supplies automakers, gaming
companies and medical-equipment manufacturers.  From their all-time high of $81.96 in July, Esterline’s
shares were down 21 percent as of May 23, the day before
Relational disclosed in a regulatory filing that it had
increased its stake in the company to 6.6 percent.  Relational said that the company’s stock is undervalued and
called on  management  to improve operations, reduce debt and
avoid costly acquisitions. The San Diego-based firm, which
manages about $6 billion, cited Esterline’s “sub-optimal
operating performance” relative to both margins and return on
invested capital.  Below Average  Esterline’s operating margin was about 10 percent in the
last 12 months, lower than the 15 percent average among North
American aerospace and defense parts makers with a market value
of at least $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It
earned 7 cents in  profit  from every dollar of invested capital,
less than any of its peers, while its net debt is 2.9 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
more than twice the industry average, the data show.  Relational said that while Esterline’s shares could get a
lift if the company improves its operations, “over time the
shares will continue to sell for a substantial discount to the
value available in a strategic sale to a larger company.” It
said a potential premium from a strategic buyer “should form
the backdrop of strategic planning and related decisions” made
by the board.  ‘Right Thing’  Ralph Whitworth, Relational’s co-founder, said in a May 24
interview that while he hasn’t urged the company to put itself
up for sale, he “wouldn’t want them to be eschewing offers.”  Whitworth wasn’t available to comment further, said his
assistant Christina Martinez.  “Relational is doing the right thing,” Zachary Prensky, a
New York-based  fund manager  at Little Bear Research LLC, said in
a phone interview. “I think these guys are going to dig in.”  Esterline was valued yesterday at 0.93 times next year’s
revenue, which analysts  estimate  will rise to a record $2.16
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with the
industry’s average multiple of 1.29 times fiscal 2013 estimated
sales, the data show.  The company offers potential acquirers both the opportunity
to gain scale in the defense market and protection from cuts in
U.S. military spending because of its commercial aircraft
products, said Green at Penn Capital, which owned about 290,000
Esterline shares as of March 31.  Target Appeal  Esterline, which generates 45 percent of its revenue in the
commercial aerospace market by selling everything from pilot
grips to radar display screens, may lure buyers seeking more
commercial customers as its  sales  and  earnings  ramp up, said
Eric Hugel, a New York-based analyst for Stephens. Esterline
would also be appealing to suitors looking to increase their
presence in the defense industry because 40 percent of its sales
are military products such as infrared decoy flares used to
confuse heat-guided missiles.  Acquirers would be getting a company that boosted its  free
cash flow  in four of the last five years and is projected to
produce a record of about $224 million this fiscal year, which
ends in October, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “You’ve got a company here that generates good, consistent
free  cash flow ,” Hugel said in a phone interview. “They have a
lot of good technology. It would be an attractive candidate for
the right kind of business where there would be a fair amount of
synergies.”  Likely Suitor  Esterline’s stock rose 10 percent on March 23, its  biggest
one-day gain  since September 2009, after U.K. newspapers the
 Daily Mail  and the Guardian said, without naming their sources,
that aerospace and defense firms are interested in acquiring the
company. The Daily Mail said one of the potential buyers was
about to begin a bid of more than $95 a share.  The most likely suitor may be BAE,  Europe ’s largest defense
company, Penn Capital’s Green said. A takeover of Esterline may
add to earnings for BAE, which is already one of its biggest
 customers , he said.  Brian Roehrkasse, a spokesman for London-based BAE, said
the company doesn’t comment on speculation regarding mergers and
acquisitions, when asked whether it has considered a takeover of
Esterline.  Esterline’s depressed  valuation  may not be enough to
convince buyers to take on the entire company, said Michael Callahan, a New York-based analyst for Auriga USA LLC.  Callahan said acquirers may be interested in only certain
parts of Esterline’s diverse product mix.  ‘Doesn’t Fit’  “It doesn’t fit a plain vanilla defense or commercial
aerospace company,” Callahan said in a phone interview. “They
have a lot more going on than just that.”  Still, Esterline’s market capitalization of about $2
billion is “in the sweet spot” for many potential suitors,
said Julie Yates, a New York-based analyst for Credit Suisse.  Esterline has “a very attractive set of capabilities on
the commercial aerospace side,” Yates said in a phone
interview. “They have an accelerating organic growth profile.”  Takeover offers for the company may range from $90 to $100
a share, Yates and Stephens’ Hugel said. That implies a premium
between 37 percent and 53 percent to yesterday’s closing price.  “The best way to solve the problems is to sell the
company,” Little Bear’s Prensky said. Relational is “pushing
these guys in the right direction. They will find somebody who
will want the whole thing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in  Dallas  at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 