-- EU, Japan Move Closer to Beginning Talks on Free-Trade Accord
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-05-31T14:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/eu-japan-move-closer-to-beginning-talks-on-free-trade-accord.html
The European Union moved closer to
starting talks with  Japan  on a free-trade agreement by
completing a process of mapping potential hurdles.  The end of the “scoping exercise” clears the way for the
European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, to propose that the
bloc’s national governments authorize the start of negotiations
with Japan on removing commercial barriers such as tariffs.  “It is very encouraging that the scoping exercise with
Japan has been completed by the commission,” Danish Trade
Minister Pia Olsen Dyhr told reporters today in Brussels after a
meeting with her counterparts in the EU. “It was a significant
step toward a free-trade agreement with Japan.”  The EU is sidestepping stalled World Trade Organization
efforts to open markets by seeking commerce pacts with
individual countries or groups of nations.  The 27-nation bloc struck a trade accord with  South Korea 
that took effect last year. The EU is close to ratifying a pact
with Colombia and Peru that will strengthen European ties with
 Latin America  after earlier agreements with Mexico and  Chile .
The EU is also nearing completion of free-trade negotiations
with Canada and considering seeking a similar deal with the U.S.  A commission proposal to EU governments for the green light
to begin talks with Japan will be made “in the coming weeks,”
Trade Commissioner Karel  De Gucht  told reporters. He attended
today’s meeting with the EU ministers and signaled that any
free-trade negotiations with Japan would entail political
controversies.  “It was a very lively debate,” De Gucht said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  