-- EU Plans Guidance on Support Plans for Renewables, Draft Shows
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-05-31T12:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/eu-plans-guidance-on-support-plans-for-renewables-draft-shows.html
The European Union is planning to
prepare guidance on the overhaul of renewable energy support
programs after curbs on state subsidies by some nations
undermined investors’ confidence, a draft EU document shows.  Europe  should establish principles for support plans that
minimize market distortions and avoid over-compensation, while
ensuring transparency and predictability, according to a policy
paper on renewable energy drafted by the European Commission and
obtained by Bloomberg News. The document, which also sets out
various policy options for the EU beyond 2020, is due to be
published on June 6.  “Support scheme reform or redesign is necessary, as
technologies mature, as costs come down,” the commission said
in the draft communication. “However, it is clear that recent
reforms in some member states have not gone smoothly, lacking
consultation with stakeholders, introducing sudden changes and
at times even imposing changes retroactively.”  The confidence of renewable-energy producers in Europe is
being put to the test as the economic crisis hampers access to
financing and debt-burdened governments impose austerity
measures.  France ,  Germany ,  Italy  and the U.K. have moved to curb
incentives for the industry and in January,  Spain  surprised
investors by shutting off aid that guaranteed developers above-
market rates for solar energy they produced.  The commission called on the bloc’s 27 nations to step up
efforts to “ensure convergence of approach,” adding that
cooperation in the development of renewable energy is an
important means of removing distortions and reducing costs.  ‘Informed Decisions’  “To encourage such developments, enable transparency and
ensure that support schemes in different member states can be
compared and investors can take informed decisions, the
commission plans to lead discussion on the exchange of best
practices in these matters and to prepare guidance on support-
scheme reform,” according to the draft paper.  The EU should also start preparations for defining its
renewable-energy policies beyond 2020, when the current targets
expire, according to the commission. Europe’s goal is to
increase the share of renewable energy to an average of 20
percent by 2020. The goal is based on varying general renewable-
energy targets for individual countries.  The commission plans to present regulatory proposals for
the post-2020 regime in 2014. To stimulate discussion about the
future framework, it set out four policy options in the draft
document: a business-as-usual scenario, strengthened greenhouse-
gas reduction targets without renewable-energy goals, mandatory
targets for renewables with coordinated support and binding EU-
wide goals backed by a harmonized support program.  “Whatever form any post-2020 renewable-energy milestones
take, they must enable renewable energy to form part of the
European energy market, with limited support and substantial
trade,” the commission said in the draft. “Only in this way we
can continue to develop our renewable-energy resources in a
cost-effective, indeed, affordable manner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  