-- EU Questions French Plan for Municipal Lending Amid Dexia Probe
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-31T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/eu-questions-french-plan-for-municipal-lending-amid-dexia-probe.html
European Union regulators questioned
French plans for a takeover of the  Dexia SA (DEXB)  unit that finances
public-sector loans as last year’s collapse of the banking group
threatens to affect municipal lending in the country.  Dexia’s resolution plan, which requires regulatory approval
under EU state-aid rules, includes a takeover of the French
covered-bond unit Dexia Municipal Agency by a new lender that
will be controlled by the French state, government-owned Caisse
des Depots & Consignations and La Banque Postale SA.  “The aid received should not be used to allow the
perpetuation of the failed business model at the level of DMA,”
the European Commission, the EU’s Brussels-based antitrust
agency, said in a statement yesterday. “Any other alternative”
would be “less distortive of competition and less costly” for
the governments.  Dexia was forced to seek a second government rescue in
three years after losing access to unsecured funding in
September. Its collapse also threatens to undermine investor
appetite for its covered bonds backed by a pool of mostly
public-sector loans, which provided as much as 64.4 billion
euros ($79.6 billion) of funding for Dexia’s municipal-lending
business at the end of last year.  Moody’s Investors Service stripped Dexia Municipal Agency’s
covered bonds of their Aaa rating on Dec. 16 and downgraded the
securities once more to Aa2 from Aa1 on April 18.  Standard &
Poor’s  has put its AAA rating on the covered bonds on “negative
watch,” or review for a downgrade.  Joint Venture  Dexia Municipal Agency would provide the funds for a joint
venture of Banque Postale and Caisse des Depots that would
replace Dexia Credit Local SA as France’s municipal lender.  Under the terms of the deal now questioned by the EU
regulators, Dexia has to provide some loss guarantees on 10
billion euros of structured loans to French municipalities. In
return, the French government agreed to guarantee 70 percent of
the potential losses exceeding 500 million euros on those loans.  The transaction would free 12.5 billion euros of funding to
be replaced by loans from  France ’s Caisse des Depots &
Consignations, Dexia said on Feb. 23.  Dexia also received a four-month extension of temporary
funding guarantees from Belgium, France and Luxembourg as the
European Commission extended its state-aid probe.  The 45 billion euros of government backstops that were due
to expire yesterday have been extended until Sept. 30. Dexia has
tapped as much as 44.8 billion euros of the temporary guarantees
and still has 21.6 billion euros of additional government-backed
debt outstanding from an earlier 2008 agreement, Belgian central
bank  data  show.  Guaranteed Bonds  Dexia has used most of the proceeds from selling guaranteed
debt to redeem unsecured loans provided by its former Belgian
banking unit and to reimburse part of emergency central-bank
loans, which still amounted to about 12 billion euros in early
May, according to Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani. The
lender is seeking additional government backstops as it needs to
put up more collateral to shield its counterparties in interest-
rate swap contracts from losses following a  decline  in long-term
 interest rates .  Benoit Gausseron, a spokesman for Dexia in Paris, declined
to comment, as did Rik Otten, a spokesman for Belgian Finance
Minister Steven Vanackere. The French Finance Ministry didn’t
respond to a telephone call seeking comment.  EU regulators also said they are seeking more information
from the governments about Arcofin CVBA’s share in the 6
billion-euro rescue of the bank in October 2008. Arcofin, which
spent 350 million euros to help shore up Dexia, may have enjoyed
state aid, the commission said.  The Arco cooperatives, which took loans from Dexia Bank
Belgium SA to help finance the stock purchase, are now being
liquidated and have been given access to  Belgium ’s deposit
guarantee fund following the collapse of Dexia last year to
shield their private cooperative holders from losses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in London via 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  