-- European Stocks Decline as U.S. Jobless Claims Advance
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-05-31T16:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/european-stock-futures-slip-heads-for-worst-month-in-10.html
European stocks fell, with the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index posting its biggest monthly drop since August,
as the number of Americans applying for unemployment insurance
payments rose and U.S. business activity slowed.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  fell 2.9 percent after the head of the company’s
low-voltage subsidiary said demand from China and Italy was
lackluster.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  tracked European construction stocks
lower on concern that  China’s economy  is slowing.  Logica Plc (LOG) 
surged after CGI Group Inc. agreed to buy the computer-services
provider for 1.7 billion pounds ($2.6 billion).  The Stoxx 600 Index declined 0.5 percent to 239.29 at the
close of trade, erasing gains of as much as 0.7 percent. The
measure fell 7 percent this month as concern mounted that  Greece 
will leave the euro area and Spain’s borrowing costs climbed.  “This is headline trading in extreme, and it’ll continue
as long as politicians and the  European (SXXP)  Central Bank are playing
hardball,” said Witold Bahrke, a senior strategist at PFA
Pension A/S in Copenhagen, where he helps oversee $55 billion.
“People are scared and need to see someone rallying behind the
European idea, finding common solutions to the debt crisis now,
rather than opting for opportunistic deals latter.”  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the 18 western
European markets today, except the U.K., France, Greece and
Austria.  Germany ’s DAX dropped 0.3 percent, the Swiss Market
Index fell 0.9 percent, while France’s CAC 40 rose 0.1 percent.
The U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 0.2 percent  Irish Vote  The Irish vote on the European Union’s latest treaty today,
with polls indicating they will endorse measures designed to
ease the euro region’s debt crisis.  Opinion polls indicate that supporters of the Fiscal
Stability Treaty lead by about 18 percentage points even as
doubts grow about the viability of the euro region.  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi  said the ECB
cannot fill the “vacuum” of the lack of fiscal prudence and
governance in the euro area and called for  Europe ’s leaders to
outline where they see the euro region in the future.  “It’s not our mandate” and “not our duty,” Draghi told
a European Union Parliament committee when asked what else the
ECB can do to help calm the current financial turmoil and cap
widening bond spreads.  Italy’s prime minister and central bank chief today pressed
Germany to back more aggressive efforts to snuff out the
escalating debt crisis.  Warning that six decades of European integration are at
stake, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  called on German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to take steps to halt the financial rot
before a backlash builds against budget cuts. Monti and Bank of
Italy Governor Ignazio Visco pushed Germany to give up its
opposition to direct euro-area aid for hard-hit banks.  U.S. Employment  Companies in the U.S. added 133,000 workers in May,
according to figures from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 150,000 advance. Estimates of the 39
economists ranged from gains of 85,000 to 225,000.  Separately, U.S. Labor Department figures showed first-time
claims for jobless benefits increased by 10,000 to 383,000 in
the week ended May 26 from a revised 373,000 the prior week. The
initial claims exceeded the median estimate of 370,000 in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  U.S. Business Activity  Business activity in the U.S. expanded at the slowest pace
in more than two years in May as orders and production cooled.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its barometer decreased to 52.7, the lowest since September
2009, from 56.2 in April. Readings greater than 50 signal
growth. Economists projected the purchasing managers’ gauge
would rise to 56.8, according to the median of 55 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  China ’s statistics bureau and logistics federation is due
to release its purchasing managers’ index for May tomorrow. The
measure may fall to 52 from 53.3 a month earlier, according to
the median estimate of 26 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  ABB, the biggest supplier of mobile power stations,
declined 2.9 percent to 15.21 Swiss francs. The company will
probably fail to reach the upper end of revenue targets for its
low-voltage subsidiary on lackluster demand from China and
Italy, said Tarak Mehta, the head of the unit.  Holcim fell 3.6 percent to 51.60 francs. The Stoxx 600
 Construction and Materials Index  posted the biggest drop of the
19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 Index.  Admiral Group Plc (ADM) , the largest car-insurer in the U.K.,
slumped 7.2 percent to 1,039 pence. A U.K. antitrust regulator
will refer the motor insurance market to the  Competition
Commission  after finding insurers compete in a “dysfunctional
way,” pushing up premiums by 225 million pounds a year.  The  Office of Fair Trading  said in a statement that it has
reasonable grounds to suspect parts of the private motor
insurance market “prevent, restrict or distort competition.”  Logica Surges  Logica jumped 66 percent to 1.37 euros in Amsterdam after
Montreal-based CGI announced it had reached an agreement to buy
the U.K. computer-services provider in a 1.7 billion pounds cash
transaction, offering a premium of 59.8 percent to its closing
price yesterday.  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) , the world’s largest
hotel operator by rooms, advanced 6.1 percent, the most since
September, to 1,526 pence, after activist investor Nelson Peltz’s Trian Fund Management LP bought a stake in the company  Snam SpA (SRG) , an Italian gas-network operator, climbed 4.2
percent to 3.27 euros after Italy’s biggest oil company, Eni
SpA, said it will sell a 30 percent stake to a state-owned bank
for 3.5 billion euros as part of government efforts to increase
competition in the  energy industry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  