-- Euro-Region Inflation Rate Declines More Than Forecast
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-05-31T15:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/euro-area-inflation-rate-falls-more-than-economist-forecast-1-.html
European inflation  slowed more than
economists forecast this month, cooling to the least in more
than a year as the economic slump showed signs of deepening.  The  inflation rate  in the 17-nation euro area fell to 2.4
percent from 2.6 percent in April, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. That’s the slowest
since February 2011. Economists forecast a 2.5 percent rate,
based on the median of 32 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.
A separate report showed German unemployment fell this month.  Crude-oil prices have dropped about 16 percent in the past
two months, easing inflation pressures and giving the European
Central Bank more room to focus on ways to bolster the economy
after  Greece ’s inconclusive elections raised investor concerns
about a euro breakup. The single currency slumped to a near two-
year low versus the dollar this week and European  economic
confidence  dropped more than economists forecast in May.  “The persistent economic downturn in the euro zone is
likely to keep underlying inflation low for a protracted
period,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Bank in
Amsterdam. “Although the ECB will likely keep  interest rates  on
hold next week,” President  Mario Draghi  “could open the door
to further monetary easing later this year.”  The euro fell for a third day against the dollar, slipping
0.1 percent to $1.2359 as of 4:51 p.m. in  London . The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index dropped 0.5 percent.  Confidence Slump  Adding to signs of a deepening slump, German business
confidence fell more than economists forecast in May, recording
the steepest decline since August. A gauge of euro-region
 manufacturing output  dropped to the lowest in 35 months in May,
while a measure of  service industries  fell to a seven-month low.  Still, data today showed the German  unemployment rate  fell
to 6.7 percent in May from 6.8 percent. The number of jobless
was unchanged in seasonally adjusted terms at 2.87 million.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey had forecast a drop.  The inflation and jobless data “were rare pieces of good
news for the beleaguered euro zone,” said  Ben May , an economist
at  Capital Economics  in London. “But the recent sharp falls in
business sentiment and activity and the deepening debt crisis
mean that the economic outlook remains bleak.”  Retail Sales  German  retail sales  rose a faster-than-forecast 0.6 percent
in April from the previous month, when they advanced 1.6
percent, separate data showed.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest
carmaker, agreed to a 4.3 percent pay increase for its carmaking
and financial-services workers in western  Germany  in a 13-month
contract approved today.  In  France ,  consumer spending  also rose more than projected
last month, increasing 0.6 percent. Producer-price inflation
slowed to 2.7 percent from 3.7 percent, adding to signs of
easing cost pressures, according to a report published by the
Insee statistics office.  Elsewhere today, domestic demand spurred an unexpected gain
in South Korean industrial production in April and stronger-
than-forecast growth in the Philippine economy in the first
quarter, two reports showed.  That contrasts with data that Japan’s industrial output
rose less than estimated in April from the previous month. In
 India ,  gross domestic product  rose 5.3 percent in the three
months through March from a year earlier, less than all 31
estimates in a Bloomberg survey, and Australian home-building
approvals unexpectedly fell in April.  In the U.S., revised first-quarter GDP figures later today
may show a slower pace of expansion. The world’s largest economy
probably grew at a 1.9 percent annualized rate from January
through March, compared with an initial estimate of 2.2 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  U.S. GDP  In  Europe , the ECB will publish new economic projections
when its Governing Council meets on June 6. It aims to keep
inflation just below 2 percent and currently forecasts price
growth of 2.4 percent this year and 1.6 percent in 2013.  Euro-area  core inflation , which excludes volatile costs
such as energy, held at 1.6 percent in April. The statistics
office will release a breakdown of May inflation next month, and
Van Vliet at ING said the decline in the headline rate this
month was probably due to energy and food prices.  Retreating energy costs are easing pressure on the central
bank as the crisis worsens. Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
last week called on the ECB to buy his government’s bonds, after
yields approached the level that pushed Ireland, Greece and
 Portugal  into seeking external aid.  ECB Mandate  “It’s not our mandate” and “not our duty” to “fill the
vacuum left by the lack of action by national governments,”
Draghi said in Brussels today. “The ECB will continue lending
to solvent banks and will keep the liquidity lines active and
alive with solvent banks.”  Responding to criticism that the ECB’s liquidity policies
are stoking inflation, Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen
said on May 24 that there is “no reason to question our
commitment to  price stability .”  “If inflationary risks were to emerge, we would take the
necessary action to prevent these risks from materializing and
withdraw any excess liquidity,” Asmussen said. Still, euro-
region inflation will probably remain “close to, or slightly
below, 2 percent for the foreseeable future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  