-- Euro Leaders May Need to Ease Deficit Plans, IMF’s Shafik Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-31T12:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/euro-leaders-may-need-to-ease-deficit-plans-imf-s-shafik-says.html
European authorities should consider
relaxing fiscal consolidation targets for some euro-area
countries as they may exacerbate economic slumps and undermine
public support, International Monetary Fund Deputy Managing
Director Nemat Shafik said.  “Fiscal adjustment plans for this year are broadly
appropriate in Europe,” Shafik said in prepared remarks for a
speech at the Brussels Economic Forum in the Belgium capital
today. “In a few euro-area countries, however, the nominal
fiscal targets for 2013 agreed before the current slowdown in
growth may prove too pro-cyclical and may need to be adjusted or
at least expressed in structural terms.”  Shafik also said the  European Central Bank  could loosen
policy further to keep inflation from slipping too far below its
goal of just under 2 percent. Data today showed euro-area price
growth eased more than economists forecast in May to 2.4
percent. As well as pushing back deficit deadlines for some euro
members, leaders should also look at increasing financial
integration to ease market pressures, she said.  “Greater fiscal integration would contribute to lowering
sovereign yields and would likely improve the ability of
countries to access markets to finance their debt,” Shafik
said. “Such steps would involve providing banking support from
a common resource pool independent from national sources, sooner
rather than later.”  While a common backstop would entail “some fiscal risk-
sharing,” Shafik said restoring stability will require
“additional pooling of sovereignty.”  To ensure that banks getting pan-European support are
properly restructured, they could be made subject to centralized
regulation and supervision “through a joint bank resolution
authority with a common backstop and a single deposit insurance
fund,” Shafik said.  On the relaxation of budget-deficit deadlines, she said
that in many countries, “reform fatigue is setting in.”  “Losing public support now, at this critical juncture,
risks negating the efforts of the past two years, and will set
 Europe  back,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  