-- Yen Strengthens to 11-Year High Versus Euro on Demand for Safety
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-05-31T21:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/euro-rises-from-2-year-low-as-ireland-votes-spanish-yields-fall.html
The yen gained to a more than 11-year
high against the euro as investors sought the perceived safety
of the nation’s debt amid a deepening European crisis and
slowing U.S. growth.  Japan ’s currency strengthened against all its major
counterparts for a second day as the premium investors receive
for buying debt of the U.S., U.K. and  Germany  instead of
Japanese securities fell. The euro rose from the weakest in
almost two years versus the dollar as Spanish and Italian bonds
rallied. Data showed the U.S. economic expansion slowed before
tomorrow’s Labor Department payroll report.  “Dollar-yen is closely affected by the low level of
Treasury yields,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency
research with online currency trader GFT Forex in New York.
“There has been a lot of demand for dollar-yen out of the
Japanese postal system and individual banks so, yes, we’re
getting quite a bit of liquidation today.”  The yen rose 1 percent to 96.84 to the euro at 5 p.m.  New
York  time after touching 96.51, strongest since Dec. 1, 2000.
Japan’s currency extended its gains against the euro to an
eighth day, its longest losing streak since June 2010.  The yen gained 1 percent to 78.32 to the dollar. It touched
78.21, its strongest level since February, after rallying above
the pair’s 200-day moving average. The shared currency was
little changed at $1.2365 after touching $1.2337, the weakest
level since July 2010.  Japan’s currency gained 1.9 percent versus the dollar this
month and rose 8.4 percent against the euro. Japan’s currency
typically strengthens in times of political, financial and
economic turmoil because the nation’s historical trade surplus
means it doesn’t have to rely on overseas lenders.  ‘Big-Picture Levels’  “If you’re going for big-picture levels -- ridiculously --
you will not find a major level until 89, which was posted in
October 2000,”  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief technical analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in New York, said of euro-yen. “If you don’t
think that dollar-yen has the ability to do more than 2 or 3
percent, then it would suggest we’re underestimating the level
we’re going to get to in euro-dollar.”  The shared currency could drop to $1.17 in the next three
weeks, Fitzpatrick said.  Spanish  10-year bond  yields declined from a six-month high
today even as ECB President  Mario Draghi  told a European Union
Parliament committee the central bank cannot fill the “vacuum”
of the lack of fiscal prudence and governance in the euro area.
Policy makers will meet on June 6.  ‘Flight to Safety’  “The market is really looking to policy makers for a
response to the crisis, and they haven’t quite shown up yet,”
said David Grad, a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of
America Corp. in New York. “The places where you see the yield
lows are just reasserting where there is a perceived flight to
safety still happening.”  The euro declined 7.1 percent versus the dollar this month,
the most since September.  The 10-year Treasury yield fell to a record 1.5309 percent
and the 10-year U.K. gilt yield declined to a record 1.563
percent as investors sought the relative stability of the
nation’s debt. German 10-year bunds declined to a record 1.199
percent. Japanese securities of similar maturity fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 0.815 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 fell 0.2 percent and the S&P GSCI
Index of 24 raw materials declined 1.2 percent.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, was 0.1 percent stronger at 83.07 after
touching 83.22, the most since September 2010. The gauge is
weighted 57.6 percent to movements in the euro.  Gross domestic product rose at a 1.9 percent annual pace in
the first quarter, down from a 2.2 percent prior estimate. The
number of Americans applying for unemployment insurance payments
rose last week to a one-month high.  The euro’s 14-day relative strength index against the
dollar remained for an eighth day below the 30 level some
traders see as signaling an asset may reverse declines. This is
the longest period of being “oversold” since 2008.  The shared currency will fall below $1.20 before the Greek
election on June 17, Adrian Schmidt, foreign-exchange strategist
at Lloyds Banking Group Plc, wrote to clients today.  HSBC Holdings Plc cut its year-end forecast for the euro,
predicting the 17-member currency will strengthen to $1.35 by
the end of 2012, according to a report. HSBC previously said the
euro would climb to $1.44, which was the most bullish among 57
financial companies surveyed by Bloomberg.  The bank still forecasts the euro will appreciate against
the greenback this year, anticipating that  Greece  will remain in
the euro, policy makers will act to support other high-deficit
countries and the  U.S. presidential election  will highlight
weakness in the nation’s finances, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  