-- Teva Advances on NYSE Trading, Cheap Valuation: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-05-31T22:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/teva-advances-on-nyse-trading-cheap-valuation-tel-aviv-mover.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
jumped the most since 2010 on a cheap valuation relative to
other health-care companies and as benchmark funds added the
stock after it began trading on the  New York Stock Exchange. (NYX)   Teva climbed 6.7 percent, the most since December 2010, to
156.30 shekels, or $40.02, at the close in Tel Aviv. The Petach
Tikva, Israel-based drugmaker trades at 7.4 times estimated
earnings, compared with the  11.1 average multiple  for companies
on the New York Stock Exchange’s Arca Pharmaceutical Index, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Teva’s American depositary receipts
were little changed at $39.19 at the close in New York.  “The move into the NYSE means some benchmark funds have to
add the stock,” said Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. in  Ramat Gan , Israel.
“The stock was also due for a correction as it was trading
cheaply relative to its peers.”  The company may also benefit as an accord to fund new
medicine and device reviews with U.S. regulators passed the
 House of Representatives , according to Jonathan Kreizman, an
analyst for Clal Finance Brokerage.  Under the measure passed by the House late yesterday,
generic-drug companies will pay $1.58 billion to quicken review
times and ensure the Food and Drug Administration has the
resources to inspect foreign plants.  Companies making generic versions of complex biologic
drugs, a process not allowed until passage of President Barack Obama’s health law in 2010, will pay user fees, which the budget
office determined would total $128 million through 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  