-- Ex-Credit Suisse Trader’s Asia Macro Hedge Fund Returns 20%
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2012-05-31T04:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/ex-credit-suisse-trader-s-macro-fund-returns-20-on-euro-crisis.html
Splendid  Asia  Macro Fund, run by a
former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  trader, returned 20 percent this
year through April as it bought Asian currencies, fixed income
and equities, and sold the yen amid the European crisis.  The fund, whose trades focus on Asia, now has $60 million
in assets from $40 million when it started in July, said Charlie
Chan, the founder of Singapore-based Charlie Chan Capital
Partners Pte. Splendid Asia has returned about 14 percent since
inception through April, he said.  “We launched our fund at a good time because it was the
Greek crisis, so we started off buying things as the market fell,
so we managed to pick up at some good prices,” Chan, the former
head of foreign exchange strategic trading at Credit Suisse,
said in an interview in  Singapore . “Asia will be the place to
be as the European crisis will slow things down.”  The gains by the fund compare with the Eurekahedge Global
Macro Hedge Fund’s 1.3 percent return this year to April and 5
percent gain by the Eurekahedge  index  that tracks Asian hedge
funds. Investment opportunities are in South Asian countries
such as Singapore and  Indonesia  given their growth prospects,
while concerns remain for growth in China and  India , said Chan,
who left the Swiss bank last year.  Shorting the Japanese currency contributed to the fund’s
performance on the view that there isn’t a real economic
recovery in the world’s third-biggest economy that also faces
the demographic problem of a shrinking population, Chan said.
“I don’t think anything good can happen in  Japan ,” he said.  No Hurry  Chan said he’s not in a hurry to increase funds under
management as that may lower returns. Total estimated capital
invested with Asian hedge funds was $82.1 billion at the end of
2011, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Last year, “I don’t think anybody was ready to deploy
capital,” he said. “This year, probably there are more people
looking to deploy, but with the European crisis rearing its ugly
head, guys who are really going to put money to work will be a
bit slower.”  The number of hedge-fund startups in 2011 reached the
highest since 2007 as investors and managers positioned for 2012
amid intense volatility and macroeconomic uncertainty, according
to  Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Two hundred and sixty five macro
funds started in 2011, the most since the Chicago-based company
started tracking the data in 1996.  Chan said he remains cautious about growth prospects in
 China  as the country goes through a leadership transition later
this year, and India because the nation needs to further build
its infrastructure.  Chan teamed up with Lam Hoi Leong and Albert Neo, former
proprietary traders he worked with at Credit Suisse, to start
the hedge fund after the Switzerland’s second-largest bank shut
down some operations that made bets with the bank’s own money
following losses related to the September 2008 bankruptcy of New
York-based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  