-- Ex-Cameron Aide Coulson Charged With Perjury, Police Say
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y ,   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-05-31T11:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/ex-cameron-aide-coulson-charged-with-perjury-police-say.html
Andy Coulson, a past editor of  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World tabloid in Britain and former press
chief to U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , was arrested and
charged with perjury, Scottish police said.  Coulson, 44, was detained yesterday in  London  and later
charged following an interview in Glasgow, Sergeant Jim Telford
of  Scotland ’s Strathclyde Police said today in a phone
interview. Coulson was released and a “report will be
submitted” to the prosecutor, Telford said.  The case relates to former Scottish lawmaker Tommy Sheridan, who sued the News of the World for defamation in 2006
over stories about adultery and visiting swingers clubs --
claims he has repeatedly denied. While he won that case, he was
later accused of lying under oath in the trial and was sentenced
in 2011 to three years in prison.  “ Andy Coulson  will vigorously contest the perjury
allegations made against him yesterday by Strathclyde Police,
should they ever result in a trial,” his lawyer Jo Rickards
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Coulson was previously arrested in July by London police
as part of a separate probe into phone hacking at the tabloid
shuttered last year by  News Corp. (NWS)  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  in a
bid to contain public anger over the scandal.  When Coulson testified at Sheridan’s perjury trial, he
denied the lawmaker’s claim that phone hacking was widespread at
the newspaper and said he had no knowledge of illegal activities
by reporters. Coulson, who edited the tabloid from 2003 to 2007,
had resigned after a reporter was jailed for phone hacking and
said the practice was limited to one journalist.  Sheridan Testimony  Sheridan defended himself in the case and accused Coulson
of using “dark arts” to get stories, the  Guardian newspaper 
reported. Since the hacking scandal erupted again last year,
police evidence emerged that Sheridan’s family and associates
were phone-hacking targets of the tabloid, the Guardian said.  Coulson denied Sheridan’s claim that there was a culture of
phone hacking at the tabloid and said he’d never heard of the
private investigator at the center of the scandal until 2006,
when the man was put on trial, according to the Guardian.
Coulson testified the incident was unfortunate.  Aamer Anwar, who represented Sheridan during the libel
trial, told the U.K. Press Association yesterday that in July he
gave Scottish police a file related to phone hacking and perjury
in the case.  Cameron Communications Chief  Cameron hired Coulson as communications chief for the
 Conservative Party  when it was in opposition in 2007, a few
months after the editor resigned from the News of the World.
When Cameron was elected in 2010, Coulson became his press
chief.  The relationship has been criticized by News Corp.’s
critics at a media-ethics inquiry in London as an example of
too-cozy ties between U.K. politicians and Murdoch’s media
empire. Coulson quit his Cameron role last year after police
reopened the phone-hacking probe. He is free on bail and hasn’t
been charged in that case.  Sheridan was found guilty in Glasgow in December 2010 of
lying under oath during his defamation lawsuit. In the 2006
case, he was awarded 200,000 pounds ($310,000) in damages over
the sex stories -- claims Sheridan denied.  Phone-Hacking Probe  Coulson quit the News of the World in 2007 after former
private detective  Glenn Mulcaire  and reporter Clive Goodman were
imprisoned for phone hacking. He lost a lawsuit in December to
have his legal fees covered by News Corp. as he faces the
criminal phone-hacking probe.  News Corp. closed the News of the World in July after
police investigations and civil lawsuits revealed the practice
went far beyond Goodman and Mulcaire. The newspaper accessed the
voice-mail messages of celebrities, crime victims and
politicians for stories while Coulson was in charge of the
weekly tabloid.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  