-- Texas Man Asks to Remove Judge Who Cited His Case in Campaign
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-05-31T22:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/texas-man-asks-to-remove-judge-who-cited-his-case-in-campaign.html
A Texas man who sued  Range (RRC)  Resources
Corp. for contaminating his water filed a motion seeking to
remove the judge who cited decisions in the case during his
failed election campaign.  Judge Trey Loftin sent fliers to voters saying he forced
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to back down, citing
news stories and comments by radio host  Rush Limbaugh  about his
rulings that went against Steven Lipsky, who says gas drilling
by Range polluted his well with methane and benzene.  The campaign mailers “reveal a personal bias or prejudice
against the Lipskys,” according to a filing today with the
court. “Judge Loftin’s campaign advertisements have touted the
judge’s rulings against the Lipskys as an important reason why
he should be re-elected.”  Loftin may also have violated the  Texas  code of judicial
ethics, Lipsky’s lawyers said in the filing.  The Texas code of judicial conduct prohibits judges from
commenting on pending or possible cases “in a manner which
suggests to a reasonable person the judge’s probable decision.”  Loftin lost the Republican primary for the 43rd District
Court in Parker County to keep his state judgeship this week
after news organizations, including Bloomberg, reported on his
campaign materials.  While one decision in the case is under appeal, parts of
the case continue to be argued in Loftin’s courtroom.  Water Contaminated  Loftin ruled for Range three times in the dispute with
Lipsky and Alisa Rich, a consultant he hired. Lipsky accused
Range of contaminating his well water. Range, in a countersuit,
said Rich and Lipsky conspired to defame the company by getting
the Environmental Protection Agency to issue an order against
the company, which prompted media coverage.  “The EPA, using falsified evidence provided by a liberal
activist environmental consultant, accused and fined a local gas
driller of contaminating wells,” according to a campaign flier
for Loftin’s campaign. President Barack “Obama’s EPA backed
down only after Judge Trey Loftin ruled that the evidence was
‘deceptive.’ ”  Range, Rich and Lipsky aren’t named in either of the two
fliers provided to Bloomberg. The news stories and Limbaugh
commentaries they cite are about their case.  Loftin didn’t immediately return a telephone message left
with his office.  The case in Texas state court is Lipsky v. Durant, 11-
cv-0798, 43rd District Court of Texas, Parker County
(Weatherford, Texas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  