-- Exchanges Propose Adjustments to U.S. Trading-Curb System
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-05-31T02:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/exchanges-propose-adjustments-to-u-s-system-of-trading-curbs.html
U.S. stock exchanges proposed changes
to trading curbs meant to safeguard equity markets, revising an
April 2011 proposal for a system that would prevent trades at
prices outside a certain band.  The curbs would give markets that list companies and
exchange-traded funds new flexibility to pause stocks when doing
so may damp volatility, according to a Securities and Exchange
Commission  filing  dated May 24 from venue operators including
NYSE Euronext and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  The system would be
implemented in February as a one-year pilot program, said the
group, which includes the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, overseer of more than 4,400 brokers.  Regulators and exchanges introduced curbs after the May
2010 rout known as the flash crash to halt individual stocks
when they rise or fall at least 10 percent. Exchanges asked for
permission 13 months ago to test a replacement system known as
limit-up/limit-down, and the May 24 filing augmented that
request in response to comments from brokers and other market
participants. The 2011 proposal was never implemented.  “The plan will reduce the negative impacts of sudden,
unanticipated price movements in NMS stocks, thereby protecting
investors and promoting a fair and orderly market,” the
exchanges and Finra wrote, using the acronym for national market
system.  The SEC must approve the filing before it can be
implemented. The regulator must make a decision by May 31,
according to an SEC notice when a ruling was last delayed.  The proposal would affect trading on all exchanges
including those run by  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , Nasdaq OMX, Bats Global
Markets Inc. and Direct Edge Holdings LLC, as well as private
venues such as dark pools and brokerages that execute orders
within their own walls.  Circuit Breakers  The current system of circuit breakers halts trading for
five minutes when the price of a stock or ETF moves 10 percent
in five minutes. The new plan would instead allow transactions
to occur away from the security’s average price without
automatically preventing shares from changing hands, and would
halt trading only if activity doesn’t seem likely to moderate.  The proposal would give the market that lists a security
the discretion to declare a trading pause when a stock
“deviates from normal trading characteristics” and the
exchange decides that a halt would curtail excessive volatility.
The April 2011 proposal didn’t include this flexibility, and
instead limited the range of prices at which executions were
allowed to occur.  Five Minutes  Under the limit-up/limit-down system, trades wouldn’t be
allowed to take place more than a specified percentage above or
below the average price over the preceding five-minute period.
If prices don’t move away from the specified limits within 15
seconds, the listing market would declare a trading pause of
five minutes.  Each stock will be allowed to move a certain percentage
above or below its five-minute average, with the amount varying
depending on its closing price the prior day. The price band
will be 5 percent above and below for stocks that are at least
$3, according to the proposal. Those between 75 cents and $3 can
move up to 20 percent, while those less than 75 cents can move
the lesser of 75 percent or 15 cents.  The plan will be implemented in two phases. The system will
initially apply to stocks in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) ,
Russell 1000 Index and a group of about 430 exchange-traded
products, with price bands calculated from 9:45 a.m. New York
time until 3:30 p.m. The second phase, which will start six
months later, will operate from the start of trading at 9:30
a.m. until the close at 4 p.m. and apply to all stocks and
exchange-traded products in the U.S., the proposal said.  Advisory Committee  The exchanges and Finra proposed an advisory committee to
provide comments and views about proposed changes to the plan.
That group will include representatives from a broker with
retail customers, a securities firm with institutional clients,
an alternative trading platform such as a dark pool, and an
investor. Dark pools are private venues run by brokers that
match buy and sell requests and often compete with exchanges.  Decisions to change the limit-up/limit-down program will be
made by an operating committee that includes a member from each
of the exchanges and Finra, the proposal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  