-- Soaring Volume Overwhelms Mexico’s Bolsa as Trading Halted
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-05-31T23:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/mexico-bolsa-halts-trading-after-orders-overwhelm-system-1-.html
Mexico ’s stock exchange halted
trading today 12 minutes before the usual close after a surge in
orders overwhelmed its systems.  Bourse operator  Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB  stopped
trading today at 2:48 p.m. local time and didn’t resume.  “The system became very slow in its response times,”
Jorge Alegria, the head of markets and information at the stock
exchange, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions, citing an
“overload” of transactions. “To avoid unfairness in the
operations, trading was suspended.”  The IPC  index  fell 0.5 percent to 37,872.95 before the
halt. Trading volume on the IPC surged 305 percent to 912
million shares, the most since Aug. 31.  Volume of  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , the phone company controlled
by billionaire  Carlos Slim , and  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB  was more
than six times the average for the past three months, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the 10 minutes before the halt, shares of  Wal-Mart de
Mexico , the second-largest company on the IPC by weighting, fell
about 2.1 percent, extending the day’s losses to 5.1 percent.
The shares closed at 34.67 pesos.  Bancomer Casa de Bolsa, the local  brokerage  unit of Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, operated more shares of IPC stocks
than any other brokerage today with 418 million shares, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Bancomer’s brokerage has been the
seventh biggest in Mexico by gross volume this year.  The stock exchange is rebalancing the IPC index tomorrow,
according to a statement today from Bolsa Mexicana. America
Movil’s weight on the index will decline to 24.9 percent from
27.3 percent while Wal-Mart de Mexico’s weight will fall to 11.6
percent from 11.7 percent, Bolsa Mexicana said.  The so-called administrative recesses are activated
occasionally by Mexico’s exchange and are usually linked to
software glitches. Last month, erroneous trades by Bulltick
Capital Markets’s brokerage in Mexico sparked a market collapse
in what regulators said may have been the worst trading mistake
in the country’s history.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  