-- Facebook Falls on Concern for Growth: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-31T18:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/facebook-shares-fall-on-concern-over-growth-san-francisco-mover.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  shares fell for a
fourth straight day amid concern that the world’s largest
social-networking service will struggle to wring profit from its
901 million users.  Scott Kessler , Internet equity analyst at S&P Capital IQ,
cut per-share earnings projections for Facebook through 2014 and
lowered his price target to $27 from $30 today. Separately,
 General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Marketing Officer  Joel Ewanick  said the
carmaker’s consumer research indicates Facebook ads are
distracting, after the company said it was dropping advertising
on the social network earlier this month.  Facebook’s gains in advertising, which drives a majority of
its revenue, aren’t keeping pace with growth in its user base as
more members access the site through handheld devices. The
company only recently rolled out an advertising service for
mobile users, and the platform hasn’t yet generated meaningful
revenue, Facebook said  earlier this month .  “It is unclear how inclined and able the company is going
to be in terms of monetizing its substantial user base and
related data and information,” Kessler said in an interview
today. “They’re going to have growth, but people wonder about
the sustainability of the growth, the quality of the growth and
ultimately the profitability of the growth over a longer period
of time.”  Citing mobile as a concern, Kessler lowered his earnings
estimates for this year to 39 cents a share from 40 cents. For
2014, he reduced his projection to 83 cents from 92 cents,
according to the report.  Initial Range  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , dropped 1.5
percent to $27.78 at 2:34 p.m. in  New York . With the decline
today, the stock is now trading below the low end of its initial
proposed price range of $28 to $35 for its IPO. The range was
later raised to $34 to $38.  Through yesterday, the stock had declined 26 percent since
it began trading at $38 on May 18.  At an event today at GM’s Detroit headquarters, Ewanick
said Facebook ads are an intrusion for users while they’re
trying to connect and communicate with others.  Advertising on Facebook is “like you’re having a night out
with your family and somebody comes up to you and says, ‘Hey
excuse me, I’ve got this car out here I want you to buy,”’
Ewanick said. “Your first reaction is ‘What are you doing here?
I’m having a conversation.”’  Pivotal’s Upgrade  Still, Facebook’s stock was upgraded to hold from sell
today by  Brian Wieser , an analyst at Pivotal Research Group in
New York. In a report, Wieser said the stock’s decline indicates
risks for the company are “increasingly incorporated” into the
price. He maintained a $30 price target.  “Short-term we are still cautious but there should be
reasons” for optimism later this year and next, Wieser said in
the note today.  He said some investors may still not fully appreciate all
the risks associated with the stock, including  capital
expenditures , likely acquisitions and rising operating expenses.
The expiration of a share lock-up, potentially introducing 1.8
billion shares into the market this year, is another risk, he
wrote.  At the time of its IPO, underwriters led by  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
set a price that valued Facebook at 107 times reported earnings
in the past 12 months, more than every S&P 500 stock except two.
Facebook and Morgan Stanley have faced criticism for increasing
the number of shares to be sold in the IPO by 25 percent to
421.2 million days before the offering and pushing up the asking
price.  Facebook increased less than 1 percent to $38.23 on May 18
in a day marred by delays, cancellations and mishandled orders.
 Robert Greifeld , the chief executive officer of New York-based
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., said a “poor design” in software
driving IPO auctions caused the mishaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  