-- Facebook Buyers Expecting Surge Were Naive, Gorman Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-05-31T21:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/facebook-buyers-expecting-surge-were-naive-gorman-says.html
Investors who bought  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
shares expecting a large short-term increase in the stock price
were “naive,”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said.  “People who thought they were buying this stock so they
could get an enormous pop were both naive and ordered under the
wrong pretenses,” Gorman, 53, said today in an interview with
CNBC. “Why you’re taking companies public is to establish a
long-term investor base. To that investor, I would hope that
they haven’t panicked during the flurry of the last few days.”  Morgan Stanley was the lead underwriter on Facebook’s IPO,
which set a record for technology companies by raising more than
$16 billion. The transaction produced the worst five-day return
among the 10 largest U.S. deals of the past decade. Investors
have cited concern over growth prospects for the largest social-
networking service and shareholders filed lawsuits that said the
company and its underwriters overpriced Facebook at $38 a share.  Facebook rose $1.41, or 5 percent, to $29.60 at 4:30 p.m.
in  New York  trading. The shares have dropped 22 percent from the
IPO price.  Gorman said the retail allocation of 26 percent wasn’t
unusual given the “unprecedented” level of demand from
individual investors. Regulators should look at the IPO because
of the attention surrounding it, he said.  “I’m confident that we followed exactly the procedures we
follow, we did the job of the underwriter,” Gorman said. “We
represented the interests of the sellers and buyers putting
together a book as part of a syndicate, and we, the other
underwriters and the company agreed on that pricing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  