-- Facebook’s Menlo Park Has Home-Price Jump as Inventory Falls
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-05-31T20:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/facebook-s-menlo-park-sees-home-prices-jump-as-inventory-shrinks.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s  Silicon Valley (MXWO0IT) 
hometown has a limited supply of real estate available for its
newly minted millionaires as sellers await further price gains
in a market buoyed by growing wealth from technology businesses.  Home listings in  Menlo Park , California, a leafy town about
30 miles (48 kilometers) south of San Francisco, fell 9 percent
in the year through April compared with the same time in 2011,
data from MLS Listings Inc. show. The number of new properties
coming to the market decreased for the eighth time in 12 months.  The initial public offering of the world’s biggest social
network, which raised $16 billion on May 17, is contributing to
surging real estate demand in Silicon Valley’s tech enclaves and
bolstering values amid scarce inventory. The median price of a
home sold in  Menlo Park  jumped 8.5 percent to $1.19 million in
the first quarter, according to research firm DataQuick.  “The market was already hot, and now there’s more pent-up
demand,” said Jim Harrison, chief executive officer of MLS
Listings, a Sunnyvale, California-based publisher of home
listings for San Mateo and Santa Clara counties in the heart of
the Valley. “Buyers are going nuts, but sellers are holding
back.”  Facebook, which has  fallen  22 percent since its IPO, is
only one factor fueling wealth creation, said Michael Dreyfus,
founder of Dreyfus Properties, a brokerage with offices in Menlo
Park and the neighboring city of  Palo Alto . Hiring at Apple Inc.
and Google Inc., as well as law and finance firms, has yielded a
“very broad-based and healthy” surge in real estate, he said
on Bloomberg Television’s ’’Bottom Line’’ on May 23.  ‘Savvy’ Sellers  A “savvy bunch of sellers” has purposely kept their homes
off the market in desirable areas in anticipation of the IPO,
Dreyfus said. Listings haven’t been this scarce at this time of
year since 2005, when  house prices  neared peak values, said
Theresa Dreike, an MLS Listings spokeswoman.  “With so many people looking and so few homes available,
the market is squeezed and sellers can get whatever they want,”
said Stephanie Seeger, 39. She and her husband bid $86,000 over
the asking price to win a four-bedroom home with about 2,300
square feet (214 square meters) in Menlo Park’s Willows
neighborhood. The $1.88 million purchase is scheduled to close
today, she said.  Across the U.S., a  scarcity  of homes for sale is boosting
property values, from foreclosure-stricken  Florida  and  Arizona 
to more robust markets in  Texas  and coastal  California . Home
 listings  totaled 2.54 million in April, the lowest for the month
since 2005, according to National Association of Realtors.  Waiting It Out  In hard-hit areas, people who owe more than their homes are
worth, known as negative equity, are crimping supply by refusing
to unload their property at a loss, said  Stan Humphries , chief
economist of Seattle-based real estate service Zillow Inc.
Sellers in Silicon Valley, on the other hand, are motivated by
maximizing price and can afford to wait as job growth and the
economy improve, he said.  Home values in the U.S. should be “modestly stronger” by
the end of the year, rising about 3 percent, Barclays Plc
analysts in  New York  said in a May 23 note. All nine regions in
a Federal Housing Finance Agency housing index showed price
gains in March. The gauge climbed 2.7 percent from a year
earlier, the biggest  increase  since November 2006.  “You’ve got a lot of people with negative equity who want
to sell but can’t, and people in affluent areas choosing not to
sell,” Humphries said in an interview. “A pattern of
materially stronger demand is emerging, but there’s a big
constraint on supply.”  Cupertino, Palo Alto  In Cupertino, home to  Apple (AAPL) , inventory this year through
April fell 15 percent, and new listings dropped for the 10th
time in 12 months, MLS Listings said. Prices climbed 2 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier to $1.1 million,
according to San Diego-based DataQuick. In Facebook’s former
home of Palo Alto, adjacent to  Stanford University , new listings
declined for the 11th month, and prices jumped 22 percent to
$1.6 million.  Facebook announced in February 2011 that it would move to
an empty Menlo Park office campus in a lease deal that was the
area’s largest in 20 years. The 1 million-square-foot complex,
dubbed 10 Hacker Way, was followed by a $250 million renovation
that’s still under way. About 2,400 employees work there.  Summer Homes  Menlo Park , a favored locale for affluent  San Francisco 
residents from the mid-19th century to build summer homes,
retains a discrete, modest feel in the shadow of Palo Alto and
Atherton, its wealthier neighbor to the north, said Captain Tom
Calvert of the Menlo Park Fire Protection District.  The city has restrictions on renovations and remodels, said
Penelope Huang, owner of  RE/Max Distinctive Properties  and an
MLS Listings board member. It doesn’t allow non-retail signage
for new businesses on Santa Cruz Avenue, the commercial
corridor, and a 1979 Heritage Tree Ordinance protects any living
tree with a diameter of 15 inches or more, she said. Cutting one
down is against the law.  Purchases of Menlo Park’s most expensive properties, more
than $2 million, rose 75 percent this year through May 8
compared with the same period in 2011, to 28 homes, said Mark
Church, assessor and recorder for  San Mateo  County.  Demand in Menlo Park may be limited among Facebook
employees who aren’t ready to purchase property or don’t want
suburban homes, said Michelle Taser of Dreyfus Properties.  San Francisco  “They’re kids and want to live in San Francisco,” said
Taser, showing a four-bedroom house with 3,070 square feet on
Sherman Avenue in West Menlo Park, where the original owners
raised two children after acquiring the property in 1993. “They
want to buy cars and drink beer.”  About 47 percent of Facebook workers participate in its
commuter program, taking bus shuttles, trains or ride-sharing
cars to the campus from San Francisco and other cities in the
region, said Tucker Bounds, a spokesman for the company.  Taser’s property, priced at $1.99 million, drew large
crowds over two weekend days, with only a handful of 125
marketing flyers left over, she said after a Sunday open house.
Low inventory in Menlo Park meant the sellers planned fewer than
two weeks of viewings, she said.  The sellers agreed yesterday to a bid about 7 percent over
the asking price after receiving five offers, Taser said today.  Sandberg Home  Facebook Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg , 42, who
owns about 27 million Facebook shares and vested restricted
stock units, is perhaps the most well-known employee who owns a
home in the town. A trust controlled by Sandberg and  David
Goldberg  bought property in Menlo Park in December 2009 that was
valued at $2.9 million in its most recent tax assessment,
according to public records.  Facebook founder and CEO  Mark Zuckerberg , 28, bought a
house in Palo Alto last year.  Some  shares  held by Facebook workers can’t be sold until
six months after the IPO under U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission rules. In the meantime, the office campus will
generate new commercial-property tax revenue, and retail sales
are bound to increase as well, said Church, the county assessor.  Newly-rich Facebook workers seeking to live close to the
office may ultimately see the appeal of Menlo Park, he said.  “These new millionaires are waiting to receive their
money,” said Church. “We expect that to occur, but we really
won’t know the true benefits for another year or so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  