-- Facebook Fiasco Coupled With European Crunch Freezes IPOs
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-06-01T18:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/facebook-fiasco-coupled-with-european-crunch-freezes-ipo-plans.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  led U.S. initial public
offerings to their worst  monthly performance  since Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, as  Europe ’s debt crisis
scuttled IPO plans from New York to  Hong Kong .  The  Bloomberg IPO Index (BIPO) , which tracks U.S. equities in the
first year after their IPOs, sank 15 percent last month, with
Facebook posting the worst one-week performance among the 30
largest U.S. IPOs since 2011. The IPO index’s decline is in line
with the drop in October 2008, the month after Lehman’s
bankruptcy triggered the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  Kayak Software Corp. and Russian social-networking company
VKontakte shelved listings this week, while Graff Diamonds Corp.
delayed a Hong Kong sale and the Formula One auto-racing series
said its  Singapore  IPO may not occur until later this year.
Facebook’s 22 percent slump through yesterday since going public
has shaken investors already reeling from tumbling equity
markets and the slumping European economy, said Jeffrey Sica of
Sica Wealth Management LLC.  “We’ve reached a breaking point where sentiment is so
negative and scrutiny is so high that companies don’t want to go
public and investors aren’t prepared to look at them,” said
Sica, who oversees more than $1 billion as chief investment
officer of the Morristown, New Jersey-based firm. “You’re
talking about long-standing damage to the psyche of companies
wanting to go public and investors.”  Facebook’s Sale  At least 13 IPOs have been withdrawn or postponed globally
since Facebook’s May 17 offering, slowing a market for deals
that’s struggled to keep momentum as U.S. stock values have
failed to recover to levels before the financial crisis. There
were 192 IPOs globally from the beginning of April through
yesterday, putting this quarter on pace to be the slowest since
177 initial offers were completed in the three months through
September 2009, Bloomberg data show.  Facebook completed the biggest technology IPO on record
just as offerings were drying up, and has since lost more than
$20 billion in market value. No other companies have completed
or set pricing terms for U.S. IPOs since the  Menlo Park ,
California-based social-networking company raised $16 billion.  Laser hair-removal company  Tria Beauty Inc. (TRIA) , computer-
memory component maker  Corsair Components Inc. (CRSR)  and  CyOptics
Inc. (CYOP) , a network technology provider, have all postponed or
withdrawn U.S. IPOs in the wake of Facebook. Kayak, the Norwalk,
Connecticut-based online travel service, was scheduled to begin
its IPO roadshow last week and postponed following Facebook’s
drop, according to a person close to the situation.  Volatility Increase  Billionaire  Eike Batista , Brazil’s richest man, dropped
plans for an IPO of his AUX gold business and is instead
pursuing a stake sale, a person with knowledge of the matter
said.  The measure of U.S. stocks volatility known as the  VIX (VIX)  rose
as high as 26.67 today and is poised to close at the highest
level this year. Investors won’t warm to IPOs until the market
steadies, said Silvercrest Asset Management Group’s Stanley Nabi.  “It’s going to be very difficult until this market has a
track record of rising on a consistent basis for several
months,” said Nabi, who helps oversee more than $10 billion as
vice chairman at the New York-based firm. “When psychology
improves, that’s when you’ll see new issues coming into the
market. The door is essentially shut in the short and
intermediate term.”  Graff Postpones  Concerns that global economic growth is slowing and  Greece 
may leave the euro area sent the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
down 6.3 percent last month, the most since September. The
sagging confidence is also plaguing offerings in other markets.  Formula One Chief Executive Officer  Bernie Ecclestone  said
recently that Formula One could complete its initial share sale
in Singapore by the end of the second quarter. Yesterday, he
said the offering may have to wait, partly because of volatile
equity markets. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index  rose  40 percent in May, the largest monthly gain since
July.  London-based jeweler Graff Diamonds also suspended its $1
billion IPO in Hong Kong, citing “consistently declining stock
markets.”  VKontakte founder Pavel Durov said May 29 that Russia’s
largest social-networking website would postpone its IPO
indefinitely. The company had revisited plans for a sale
initially following Facebook’s IPO, people with knowledge of the
discussions said last month.  Baidu’s Perspective  Internet companies from  China  may struggle to complete U.S.
IPOs in the wake of Facebook, Baidu Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Robin Li said, according to a transcript of a business partner
conference available on the company’s website today.
Facebook’s IPO price indicated a market value of 107 times
trailing 12-month earnings, more than all but two companies in
the  S&P 500  at the time of the offering, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Technology companies seeking high valuations in initial
sales will need to “come down to earth” to attract investors
after Facebook’s post-IPO decline, said Nabi, who says he didn’t
advise clients to subscribe to the IPO.  “Offerings coming out at insane valuations, in the hope
that fast growth will bail them out, are irrational,” Nabi
said. “People are realizing it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net  