-- Pianalto Says New Fed Easing Not Needed Amid Slow Growth
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-05-31T15:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/fed-s-pianalto-says-u-s-economy-growing-at-moderate-pace.html
Cleveland Federal Reserve Bank
President  Sandra Pianalto  said more easing isn’t necessary even
though she predicts just moderate growth and the jobless rate
probably won’t fall to 6 percent for about four years.  The world’s largest economy will expand by “slightly
above” 2.5 percent this year and 3 percent in 2013 and 2014,
Pianalto, a voting member on the policy-setting  Federal Open
Market Committee , said today in a speech in Cleveland. Inflation
will probably remain close to the Fed’s 2 percent goal through
2014, she said.  “My inflation outlook, although it is close to the 2
percent objective, is based on an economy that is working
through a significant amount of cyclical weakness over the
projection horizon,” Pianalto said. “My outlook for both
economic activity and inflation relies on monetary policy
remaining accommodative.”  Fed policy makers said a loss of momentum in growth or
increased risks to their economic outlook could warrant
additional action to keep the recovery going, minutes of their
April 24-25 meeting showed. U.S. companies probably hired
150,000 workers in May, according to the median of 79 economist
estimates in a Bloomberg survey before the report due tomorrow,
while unemployment probably was unchanged at 8.1 percent.  Permanent Unemployment  The elevated jobless rate is primarily due to a sluggish
recovery and the reluctance of many companies to hire, Pianalto
said at a National Association for Business Economics conference
at the  Cleveland  Fed. Before the recession, there were about as
many job seekers as openings, she said. Today there are about
three people hunting for each opening.  High joblessness may persist even with faster economic
growth because workers facing prolonged unemployment lose their
skills, Pianalto said.  “What is extraordinary about today’s economy is the number
of unemployed people compared to the number of  job openings ,”
Pianalto said. “These facts make a lot of today’s unemployment
look more cyclical than structural to me, although persistent
cyclical unemployment runs the risk of translating into
structural unemployment through the loss of skills.”  Pianalto said additional easing isn’t needed to generate
more job growth. Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  called
yesterday for new monetary stimulus, saying economic growth is
too weak to boost employment.  ‘Highly Accommodative’  “Our monetary policy stance is appropriate,” Pianalto
told reporters after her speech in response to a question about
Rosengren’s remarks. “We are providing a highly accommodative
monetary policy.”  Europe ’s debt crisis presents “a risk to the outlook” for
economic projections by policy makers, who must assess the
potential impact should the region’s economy worsen, she said.  “The uncertainties around our forecast have been very
large,” Pianalto told reporters. “These are uncertain times.
That’s why I think it’s important to keep an open mind about the
policy response.”  The outlook for manufacturing in the U.S. is “bright” and
rising skill levels and educational attainment will boost
incomes, the regional Fed chief said.  “Manufacturing is such an important player in
innovation,” Pianalto said. “If we can remain innovative and
continue to maintain and increase the skill level of our
workers, that will drive economic growth in this country.”  June Meeting  The FOMC next meets in  Washington  on June 19-20. In
September, the committee said it would sell $400 billion of
short-term securities and buy $400 billion in longer-term
securities, to reduce borrowing costs and spur the recovery. The
program, known as Operation Twist, is scheduled to be completed
in June.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1 percent to 1,300.14
as of 11:09 a.m. in  New York , while the yield on the 10-year
Treasury note declined eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 1.538 percent.  Policy makers at the central bank last month repeated their
pledge to keep  interest rates  low through at least late 2014,
citing the elevated  unemployment rate . Reports since that
meeting have underscored the uncertain outlook, with releases
this week showing that  consumer confidence  fell for a fourth
month as optimism about job prospects faded, and that pending
home sales dropped 5.5 percent in April.  Pianalto, 57, has been president of the Cleveland Fed since
2003. She first joined the regional bank in 1983 as an economist
in the research department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Cleveland at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  