-- Fed’s Bullard Says BOJ Will Meet Price Target With Easing Plan
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-05-31T08:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/fed-s-bullard-says-boj-will-meet-price-target-with-easing-plan.html
The  Bank of Japan ’s asset-purchase
program will let the central bank meet its medium-term inflation
target, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said.  The program “will take the Japanese out of the
deflationary situation that they’ve been in for some time,”
Bullard said at a briefing in Tokyo today. “It will ultimately
be successful.”  The central bank set its 1 percent inflation goal in
February and has added stimulus twice this year in an attempt to
spur growth and boost prices to pull the world’s third-largest
economy out from more than a decade of deflation. The BOJ
forecasts price growth of 0.7 percent in the year starting April
2013.  “Quantitative easing in the U.S. was a successful
policy,” Bullard said. “It did influence inflation and
inflationary expectations” so the same can occur in  Japan , he
said.  The yen reached its strongest level in more than three
months against the dollar, gaining against most of its major
peers today as the banking crisis in  Spain  added to signs
 Europe ’s debt turmoil is spreading, boosting investor demand for
safer assets. It traded at 78.82 as of 4:35 p.m. in Tokyo.  “A lot of what is going on in global markets right now is
flight-to-safety effects and that’s affecting exchange rates as
well,” Bullard said. He declined to comment specifically on the
yen.  Japan’s Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said today that currency
and stock market movements “in no way reflect Japan’s economic
fundamentals. ‘‘We are watching out for speculative and
excessive moves’’ in the yen, Azumi said.  The Fed lowered its target interest rate close to zero in
December 2008 and has engaged in two rounds of asset purchases
totaling $2.3 trillion to boost the economy. Bullard doesn’t
vote on monetary policy this year.  He was the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second
round of asset purchases and published a paper in July 2010
saying the Fed should buy Treasuries as a way to prevent
deflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  