-- FHA Disputes Report That Foreclosure Starts Rose in April
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-06-01T18:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/fha-foreclosures-jump-73-percent-in-april.html
The  Federal Housing Administration  is
disputing a report that foreclosure starts on loans it insures
spiked by 74 percent from March to April.  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  may have erred
extrapolating numbers from its database of information on 40
million loans in reporting yesterday that new foreclosures on
FHA-backed loans rose to 63,126 in April from 36,311 a month
earlier, FHA spokesman  Lemar Wooley  said in an e-mail. The FHA
said its own numbers showed an 11 percent drop to 18,975.  “The bottom line is that the numbers in the LPS report for
April simply don’t accord with our data,” Wooley said.  The FHA is expecting an uptick in foreclosures because
legal disputes between state and federal officials and mortgage
servicers over faulty foreclosures were resolved with a $25
billion settlement in February, Wooley said. Foreclosures had
been slowed while the parties were negotiating.  The report by Jacksonville, Florida-based LPS, which said
overall foreclosure starts declined 2.6 percent in April to
181,584, attributed the FHA spike to the expanded role the
government mortgage insurer has played since the collapse of
private housing finance in 2008. Loan originations backed by the
FHA, whose website bills it as the world’s largest mortgage
insurer, tripled that year.  “LPS has every confidence in its data and believes that
there is likely a simple explanation for the difference between
our numbers and FHA’s reported foreclosure starts for April,”
said Herb Blecher, senior vice president for LPS Applied
Analytics. “We have reached out to the FHA directly on this,
and will share our findings as soon as we have a definitive
answer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  