-- Flinders-MMK Deal Collapse May Open Door for Rio Tinto
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-06-01T06:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/flinders-mmk-deal-collapse-seen-opening-door-for-rio-real-m-a.html
While  OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel (MMK) ’s
takeover of  Australia ’s  Flinders (FMS)  Mines Ltd. is seen as the most
likely deal in the world to fail, traders can still double their
money betting another bidder will buy Flinders.  Flinders, developing an  iron-ore  mine in Australia’s
Pilbara region, had tumbled 13 percent in the week to yesterday
since a Russian court deferred a ruling on the company’s A$554
million ($537 million) takeover by MMK, as the Russian
steelmaker is known, until after the June 30 bid deadline.
Before the market opened today, Flinders was trading 53 percent
below the offer, the widest gap of any pending deal greater than
$100 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
indicates merger arbitragers are convinced the takeover is the
most likely to collapse.  If the deal unravels, companies from  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  to
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. and  South Korea ’s Posco may emerge
as bidders for Flinders, which controls one of the last
independent deposits of its size in Australia, Investec Bank
Australia Ltd. said. With the potential to yield as much as 25
million metric tons of ore a year, the mine could be worth as
much as A$911 million to a buyer even if iron-ore prices drop 40
percent from  current levels , according to Ord Minnett Ltd.  “The project has significant inherent value,” Luke Smith,
a Melbourne-based analyst with Ord Minnett, said by telephone.
“You can stand at this project and look straight down the
valley and see Rio’s rail line. You can stand and look the other
way and see 25 kilometers away  Fortescue (FMG)  is building the Solomon
hub. It is in quite a privileged position geographically.”  Shares Jump  Flinders Mines rose 11 percent to 15.5 cents at the close
of trading in Sydney, the biggest gain in more than six months,
as the benchmark Australian index gave up 0.3 percent. The
company declined to comment on speculation in an e-mailed
response to questions.  “We will be doing everything we can to close the deal as
we took this obligation under the agreement with Flinders,”
Kirill Golubkov, Magnitogorsk, Russia-based MMK’s spokesman,
said by telephone this week.  Founded as a diamond miner, Flinders  discovered  in 2007
that it was sitting on a deposit of iron ore between others
controlled by  Rio Tinto  and Fortescue, the world’s second- and
fifth-largest iron ore exporters. The discovery, of what was
initially estimated to be up to 390 million tons of iron ore,
prompted the company to change its name from  Flinders Diamonds
Ltd.  in 2008. Flinders last year raised its projection of the
deposit’s size to 917 million tons.  ‘Reasonably Stunned’  Estimating the cost of developing the mine at more than A$1
billion, Flinders hired Citigroup Inc. for advice on its
strategic options in September and agreed on Nov. 25 to be sold
to Russian billionaire Victor Rashnikov’s MMK for A$554 million
in cash, almost twice Flinders’ market value at the time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Flinders’ iron-ore deposit is of high enough quality to be
shipped without processing and close to the rail and port
infrastructure from which most of  Australia’s iron ore  is
exported, said Andrew Shearer, a Melbourne-based resources
analyst at Octa Phillip Securities. Both factors would appeal to
other buyers, he said in a telephone interview.  “I’m still reasonably stunned that Rio didn’t put their
hand up with a counter bid,” Colin McLelland, a Sydney-based
analyst at Investec, said in a telephone interview. “It’s 917
million tons, which is big in anyone’s language. If you do want
to get a footprint in the Pilbara -- and there are still people
that don’t have one that maybe would like one -- they are the
only way to do it really.”  Shareholder Lawsuit  Flinders traded as high as MMK’s 30 cents a share offer by
March, with MMK saying it expected to close the deal in April.
Flinders’ shareholders approved the takeover on March 30. The
same day, a Russian court ordered MMK not to proceed with the
acquisition.  The order came after Elena Egorova, who  owns  less than
0.001 percent of the Russian company according to MMK, filed a
lawsuit arguing that the deal discriminates against her
interests as a shareholder. Egorova could not be located for
comment, and MMK said it has had no direct contact with her. The
only information about her on the court  website  indicates she is
registered in Siverskoye village.  Court Hearing  Flinders was already down  47 percent  from its April 2 high
when a court in Chelyabinsk, MMK’s home region, said last week
it wouldn’t hear Egorova’s claim until July 2, two days after
the so-called quit date for the takeover passes. An appeal by
MMK to remove the injunction against the deal won’t be heard by
a Chelyabinsk court until June 6, MMK said May 30. The shares
had dropped another 13 percent before today since the May 24
court decision on Egorova’s claim hearing. MMK’s offer is 114
percent above Flinders closing price of 14 cents yesterday, the
widest spread of any pending deal greater than $100 million,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  With steel prices falling, and MMK facing a downgrade of
its  debt rating  by  Fitch Ratings , the Russian company will have
trouble financing the takeover, which includes the commitment
for a $1 billion investment in the mine, according to Dmitry Smolin, an analyst at Uralsib Capital in Moscow.  Hot rolled coil export prices from  Russia  and other former
Soviet republics dropped as low as $577.50 a metric ton in
December, slumping 27 percent from a peak of $790 a ton in
February 2011, according to Metal Bulletin data. Iron ore rose
49 percent last year. MMK reported its first  annual loss  in a
decade last month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We don’t believe the deal with Flinders will be closed,”
Smolin said in a telephone interview. “If the deal will be
broken, that would be good for MMK.”  Lost Opportunity  MMK’s Golubkov said in an e-mailed response to questions
that the takeover’s collapse would be a “lost opportunity” for
the steelmaker.  A deal failure would give Rio Tinto, Fortescue and  Atlas
Iron Ltd. (AGO)  a chance to acquire Flinders, according to Ord
Minnett’s Smith.  Brazil ’s  Vale SA (VALE)  is “looking to diversify”
and may also be interested, said Octa’s Shearer.  With a single month of Rio Tinto’s annual free cash flow of
about  $8 billion  exceeding MMK’s current offer, Smith said the
London-based mining company is the strongest candidate to
replace MMK as a buyer of Flinders.  “If you can have a project producing 25 million tons,
which this project has the potential to, it is a Rio-sized
project,” he said. Rio Tinto produced 231 million tons from its
Pilbara mines last year, and plans to increase output to 283
million tons a year by the end of 2013.  Fortescue, which had $2.5 billion in cash at the end of
December, is developing the Solomon hub, comprising iron ore
mining and a rail line to  Port Hedland , to the east of Flinders’
asset. Atlas Iron, with A$377 million in cash, has made more
than 20 acquisitions in less than a decade, the largest of which
was last year’s purchase of iron-ore explorer Giralia Resources
NL for A$758 million in stock, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fortescue, Vale  Bruce Tobin, a Melbourne-based spokesman for Rio Tinto,
declined to comment on market speculation, as did Yvonne Ball, a
spokeswoman for Perth-based Fortescue. An outside spokesman for
Perth-based Atlas Iron wasn’t immediately able to comment.  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, said last year
it will make “opportunistic” acquisitions. A representative
for Rio de Janeiro-based Vale said the company doesn’t comment
on market speculation.  Flinders “are relatively close to the port compared to
some of the competition, and they have a reasonable resource so
it would make sense for somebody who is interested in gaining
access to production to get involved at this stage,” said Peter Rudd, a Melbourne-based mining and resources manager at Private
Wealth Pty Ltd.  Australian Priority  South Korean steelmaker  Posco (005490)  may be among them, according
to Investec’s McLelland. Posco earlier this year agreed to buy a
stake in Hancock Prospecting Pty Ltd.’s Roy Hill iron-ore
project in Australia for A$1.5 billion. With  $1.9 billion  in
cash and short-term investments at the end of December, Posco
said in April that it will maintain investments in “necessary
areas” including mining assets.  Kim Ji Young, a Seoul-based spokeswoman for Posco, said the
company hadn’t considered a bid for Flinders and that Roy Hill
will be the company’s priority for investment in Australian
mining assets.  While Flinders is currently planning to produce up to 15
million metric tons of iron ore annually from the mine, the
project’s capability could be as much as 25 million tons,
according to Ord Minnett’s Smith. At that scale, even a buyer
who projects iron-ore prices will average $80 a ton over the
long term could offer as much as 50 cents a share, or A$911
million, for the developer, Smith wrote in a May 29 report.  Iron ore currently trades at $134.80 a ton, according to
data from The Steel Index. Average prices won’t fall below $120
until at least 2015, forecaster WoodMackenzie said on May 21.  ‘Big Issue’  Flinders needs a deal to finance the first stage of the
mine’s development, which could cost up to A$488 million,
according to a study the company published in January 2011.  “Funding is the big issue depressing the price,” said
Mike Harrowell, senior resources analyst at BBY Limited, in an
e-mailed reply to questions. Flinders had A$24 million in cash
on its balance sheet at the end of December, down by almost half
from a year before, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The fact that Flinders and its  shareholders  already agreed
to a sale at 30 cents a share may also make that a cap on the
possible takeover price, Octa’s Shearer said.  “The MMK bid was on par with the value of the asset,” he
said. “Another bid would likely come at a similar price.”  A deal completed at the same price as MMK’s offer would
still enable investors who buy the shares today to double their
return, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Flinders’ “ management  has shown they’re prepared to deal
on the asset,” Shearer wrote in a May 30 note. “The resources
remain an attractive acquisition target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  