-- Florida Voter-Registration Law Partially Blocked by Judge
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-06-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/florida-voter-registration-law-partially-blocked-by-judge.html
Parts of  Florida ’s voter-registration
law were blocked by a federal judge who ruled that conditions
the statute imposes on groups signing up voters are
unconstitutional.  Portions of the law “severely restrict” voter
registration drives and place “harsh and impractical”
restrictions on groups that conduct them, U.S. District Judge
Robert Hinkle in Tallahassee, Florida, said in yesterday’s
decision. He granted an injunction blocking enforcement of some
provisions of the law.  Hinkle found unconstitutional a rule requiring voter-drive
groups to turn over registration materials to the state within
48 hours of completion or face fines of as much as $1,000. The
rule, which makes no provision for mailing in applications,
serves little, if any, purpose, even if it doesn’t violate the
National Voting Rights Act, Hinkle said.  The statute, which regulates community-based voter
registration, also requires groups to give the state the names
of every officer or volunteer who solicits and collects
applications, Hinkle noted. Registration agents must sign a form
that suggests they commit a felony and face five years in prison
for sending in applications that include false information even
if they don’t know, or have any reason to believe, the
information is false, the decision said.  ‘Just Wrong’  The form “is just wrong,” Hinkle said.  “Requiring a volunteer not only to sign such a statement,
but to swear to it, could have no purpose other than to
discourage voluntary participation in legitimate, indeed
constitutionally protected, activities,” Hinkle said.  Other challenged provisions, such as requiring groups to
provide information to the state in electronic format and
allowing violations to trigger civil actions by the state, are
legal and not barred, Hinkle’s ruling said.  Attorneys for the League of Women Voters of Florida and
Rock the Vote, which sued last year to overturn provisions of
the law, said many groups had stopped registering voters because
of the legislation.  “Laws that make it harder to participate in the public
process should be rejected,” Lee Rowland, an attorney for the
Brennan Center for Justice, which represented the groups, said 
in a conference call. She said she hoped the decision “will help 
turn the tide” in a surge of restrictive state voting laws.  The Florida Attorney General’s office is reviewing the
ruling, Jenn Meale, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “I am pleased that central parts of the voter registration
law have been upheld by a federal judge,” said Governor  Rick Scott  in a statement. “This is a vast improvement over the
previous system that will help protect the integrity,
accountability and enforcement of the voter registration
process.”  The case is League of Women Voters v. Browning, 11-628,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Florida (Tallahassee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  