-- Ford to Expand on Facebook With Ads for Logo Merchandise
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-05-31T21:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/ford-to-expand-on-facebook-with-ads-promoting-logo-merchandise.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  will introduce ads on
 Facebook  tomorrow promoting licensed merchandise such as T-
shirts and toy cars with the blue oval logo that the automaker
recovered control of last week.  The ads, a first for the automaker’s licensing operations,
will appear on the right side of the wall of users of  Facebook
Inc. (FB) ’s social network who have visited Ford and motor-sport
pages, said Betsy McKelvey, Ford’s marketing manager for
licensing. The ads will promote 20 items in a rotation through
June 10 in advance of Father’s Day on June 17, she said.  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, is remaining
active on Facebook after larger rival  General Motors Co. (GM)  decided
this month to pull its ads from the social network. Licensed
items help build Ford’s brands and generated $1.5 billion in
revenue last year, most of which went to companies such as
toymakers, video-game producers and clothing manufacturers,
according to John Nens, the automaker’s licensing manager.  “When we didn’t take the government money, the Ford oval
became more popular with consumers,” Nens told reporters today
in Dearborn,  Michigan , where the automaker is based. Last year’s
revenue, from more than 45 million licensed items sold, was an
increase of 50 percent from 2005, he said.  Nens declined to say how much of the revenue Ford receives.  Ford’s credit was raised to investment grade in the past
two months by  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service,
letting the automaker reclaim control of the logo and other
assets put up as collateral for $23.4 billion in loans in late
2006. The financing enabled Ford to avoid the bailouts and
bankruptcies that befell the predecessors of GM and Chrysler
Group LLC in 2009.  Mustang Cologne  Ford is seeing an increase in licensing requests for such
new items as Mustang men’s cologne, a floral bouquet in the bed
of a toy 1948 Ford truck and a $34 T-shirt sold at Saks Fifth
Avenue stores that features a vintage ad for a 1968 Shelby Cobra
Mustang, Nens said.  The company also is turning down requests, such as ones to
place the blue oval logo on caskets and guns, he said.  “You don’t want to overexpose yourself,” Nens said.
“We’ve been offered to get into wine and Mustang beer and we
just stay away from those categories.”  The move to advertise on Facebook follows successful
placement of posts on Ford’s 67 pages on the social network
promoting licensed merchandise, such as the Teleflora LLC
 bouquet in the Ford truck , McKelvey said.  “The Facebook crowd was saying, ‘Why not do a convertible
Mustang?”’ Nens said. “We’ve been telling Teleflora that for
two years, but now it makes more sense to them that the social-
media folks are saying that would be a good idea.”  GM’s Research  GM today cited its consumer research showing that ads on
the social network are distracting to users.  Advertising on Facebook is “like you’re having a night out
with your family and somebody comes up to you and says, ‘Hey,
excuse me, I’ve got this car out here I want you to buy,”’ GM
Chief Marketing Officer  Joel Ewanick  told reporters at the
automaker’s Detroit headquarters. “Your first reaction is,
‘What are you doing here? I’m having a conversation.”’  GM said on May 15 that it would no longer advertise on
Facebook.  On the same day, Ford reiterated its commitment to
Facebook, and  Jim Farley , Ford’s global marketing chief, has
joined the social network’s client council that advises on ad
strategy, according to Advertising Age magazine.  Ford’s Mustang page on Facebook has more than 4 million
fans, McKelvey said.  “We’re reaching more people than actually own the
vehicle,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  