-- Spain March Foreign Investment Shrinks Amid Capital Outflow
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-05-31T17:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/foreign-investment-in-spain-shrinks-more-than-tenfold-1-.html
Spain  saw a net 66.2 billion euros
($81.8 billion) leaving the country in March, with outflows of
foreign portfolio investment increasing tenfold as the economy
 contracted .  Foreign portfolio-investment in Spain registered an outflow
of 22.6 billion euros in March, up from 2 billion euros a year
earlier, the Bank of Spain said today. Other investments, mainly
loans, repos and deposits, showed a negative balance of 46.4
billion euros as Spaniards invested abroad and foreigners
withdrew funds. There was a positive balance of 10.9 billion
euros a year earlier.  Spain’s borrowing costs are approaching the 7 percent mark
that heralded bailouts in Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  as Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  pushes through budget cuts amid a
deepening recession and concern grows that banking losses could
overwhelm the public finances. The yield on Spain’s 10-year
benchmark bond is at 6.56 percent, compared with a euro-era high
of 6.78 percent on Nov. 17.  “It’s a bank walk before the bank run,” Javier Diaz- Gimenez, a professor at the IESE business school in  Madrid , said
in a telephone interview. “It’s the response of those who are
managing savings in Spain to a worrying situation.”  Foreign investors are selling Spanish bonds, Treasury data
show. They held 37 percent of the total in April, down from 50
percent at the end of last year, while Spanish banks increased
their holdings to 29 percent from 17 percent.  “Foreign investors are getting more worried about Spain,”
said Ricardo Santos, a European economist at BNP Paribas in
 London . “We are seeing foreign investors leaving and being
replaced by domestic investors who are being funded by the
 European Central Bank .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  