-- Fracking’s Interstate Pollution Needs U.S. Rules, Scientist Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-05-31T15:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/fracking-s-interstate-pollution-needs-u-s-rules-scientist-says.html
Air and water pollution from natural-
gas and oil production using hydraulic fracturing moves across
state lines, so the drilling should be regulated by the federal
government, a  Cornell University  scientist said.  The process, known as fracking, uses chemically treated
water to free gas trapped in underground shale formations. It
also releases benzene and ozone into the atmosphere and can
pollute surface water,  Robert Howarth , a professor of ecology
and environmental biology at Cornell University in Ithaca,  New
York , said in prepared remarks for a hearing today by the House
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.  “The pollution from unconventional oil and gas development
moves across state lines in surface waters, in the air and in
gas pipelines,” Howarth said. “This interstate pollution
clearly calls for federal oversight of environmental and public-
health regulation.”  Howarth’s testimony put him at odds with Representative
 Darrell Issa , a California Republican and committee chairman, as
well as industry representatives and state regulators who
support standards at the local level and say Obama
administration rules are slowing energy development.  “The administration is closing public lands to exploration
and drilling at an increasing pace,” Issa said in today in e-
mailed comments before the hearing in Washington.  Customized Rules  Representatives of gas-producing states such as Oklahoma
and  Pennsylvania  in prepared remarks opposed U.S. oversight and
supported regulation on the state level, arguing it can be
customized to the geology and weather conditions in each
production area.  “The states are light-years ahead of the federal
government in terms of experience and know-how about their own
individual states and about the science and technique of
hydraulic fracturing,” Michael Krancer, secretary of the
 Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection , said.  Cornell’s Howarth wrote an April 2011 study, published in
“Climatic Change Letters,” that said as much as 1.9 percent of
the gas in a well escapes into the atmosphere during fracking.
The contention was disputed by researcher Lawrence Cathles, also
from Cornell, who said less than 0.2 percent leaked.  The U.S. Interior Department’s Bureau of Land Management
has proposed a rule that would set well-construction standards
for companies fracking on federal lands and require them to
disclose chemicals used in the process.  “The BLM has developed the draft with an eye toward
improving public awareness and oversight without introducing
complicated new procedures or delays in the process of
developing oil and gas resources,” Mike Pool, the bureau’s
deputy director, said in prepared remarks. “The BLM recognizes
that some, but not all, states have recently taken action to
address hydraulic fracturing in their own regulations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  