-- French Open Prize Rise Gives Bottom Players Financial Breather
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-31T22:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/french-open-prize-rise-gives-bottom-players-financial-breather.html
Li Na was traveling the world,
zooming up the women’s tennis rankings and going broke.  The Chinese tennis federation had just allowed Li and its
other players to keep most of their prize money while paying
their own way on the global tours. Until then, the federation
had covered their costs, in return for 60 percent of winnings.  “I really didn’t think about how expensive it was to play
the sport,” Li, 30, said in an interview last month. “But when
I started traveling with my own team in 2009, I felt, ’Wow, this
is really expensive,’ because you have to pay your team and you
have to pay your coach as well. I used to joke to my husband, if
I don’t play well, and after I am retired, maybe in the bank we
will have zero.”  Li is defending her  French Open  title in Paris and has
signed endorsement deals worth $42 million since becoming the
first Asian player to win a Grand Slam singles championship a
year ago, according to her agent at IMG,  Max Eisenbud . Players
at the bottom of the tournament draws, still struggling
financially, are aided this year by prize-money increases that
outrank those for the champions by 4-to-1 and can mean the
difference between staying on tour or becoming a club coach.  “‘You can do more, you can bring a coach or trainer and
actually better prepare yourself for the tournament,” said
 Donald Young , an American ranked 51st on the ATP World Tour and
a first-round loser in Paris to  Bulgaria ’s Grigor Dimitrov.  Break Even  The loss earned Young $22,384 (18,000 euros), a 20 percent
jump from last year’s prize money, and pushed the former top-
ranked junior player over the financial break-even threshold.  Today, 2009 champion  Roger Federer  takes on  France ’s
Nicolas Mahut, while top ranked  Novak Djokovic , who would hold
all four Grand Slam titles should he win at Roland Garros, plays
Nicolas Devilder, the 286th ranked Frenchman. Women’s top seed
 Victoria Azarenka  of  Belarus  meets  Canada ’s Aleksandra Wozniak.  The annual cost of playing pro tennis is $143,000,
according to a 2010 study by the  U.S. Tennis Association . Young
had made $131,091 this season before Paris.  The French Open and  Wimbledon  both increased prize money
this year for the early rounds of the main draws as well as the
qualifying tournament after calls from the men’s ATP World Tour
and its players for a better distribution of revenue generated
by the four tennis majors.  Other Majors  The  U.S. Open , which starts Aug. 27, will release its prize
money next month. The  Australian Open , which begins in January
2012, publishes its prize money in October.  Jonathan Dasnieres de Veigy , a 158th-ranked French player
who was granted a wild-card entry into the main draw in Paris,
almost doubled his year’s earnings when he lost to former
champion Juan Carlos Ferrero of  Spain  in the first round.  “It’s going to allow me to finish the year, to reinvest in
plane tickets and my coach and practice,” said the 25-year-old
de Veigy, who had made $25,696 in prize money this season before
 Roland Garros . “It’s huge.”  The study by the USTA’s National Collegiate Varsity
Committee found that the cost of being on tour includes $60,000
to travel to 20 events a year, $13,000 for mental and physical
training, and $70,000 for a coach traveling with the player.  That means the point where players start to make money lies
at around No. 163 on the men’s ATP World Tour and No. 125 on the
women’s WTA tour, based on 2011 rankings. It takes most players
between three to four years to break into the top 100. The
average career on tour is seven years.  Bigger Increases  The French Open increased prize money for reaching the
second and third rounds of the qualifying event by 12.5 percent.
The  French Open  singles champions will receive 1.25 million
euros, or an increase of 4 percent.  Wimbledon increased its prize money in all three qualifying
rounds by 21 percent, while first-round losers in the main draw
will get 14,500 pounds ($22,360), or 26 percent more than last
year. The Wimbledon singles champion will receive 1.15 million
pounds, or 4.5 percent more.  “I am really happy, especially for the players who are
lower-ranked,” Djokovic, the game’s No. 1 player, said in an
interview at the Rome Masters. “When you travel to  Australia ,
for example, it’s a very expensive ticket, not just for
yourself, but for the whole team, your wife, your girlfriend or
kids if you have them, to travel there and to stay there for a
couple of weeks to prepare for the event and everything. You
need to cover those expenses and it’s not easy, obviously.”  Parental Help  Djokovic made a men’s season-record $12.6 million in prize
money last year, when he won three of the four majors.  Chanelle Scheepers , a 28-year-old South African, said she
made almost nothing in her first year on the circuit in 2000 and
that her parents had initially helped her financially.  “I remember sharing hotel rooms with other players to just
make it cheaper,” she said in an interview in  Rome  last month.
“It was just a lot of tough ones.  South Africa  is so far and so
expensive to travel that I would have to go on 12-week trips at
a time to just make it affordable.”  Scheepers, who broke into the top 40 last season, lost in
the second round in Paris. She has made $185,677 this year.  Michael Russell  lost in the first round of the men’s
doubles with Young in Paris and failed to qualify for the main
draw in singles. Ranked 110th in the world in singles, the
American, one of the few players on tour with a college degree,
said his love of the game makes it all worth it, even with
winnings this year of just $94,628 before Paris.  ‘My Love’  Michael’s brother David went to  Harvard Business School  and
works for the endowment arm of the  University of Virginia .  “Had I gone into the business world, I could have made a
lot more, particularly when you add up all the expenses and
everything,” Russell, who travels with his wife on tour and
estimated his annual cost at around $75,000, said in an
interview at Roland Garros. “But tennis has been my love since
I was a child. It’s fantastic to be able to play here at the
French Open and at the Grand Slams.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  