-- FTC Chair Dines With Google Ad Exec Amid Antitrust Probe
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-06-01T05:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/ftc-chair-dines-with-google-ad-exec-amid-antitrust-probe.html
U.S. Federal Trade Commission
Chairman Jon Leibowitz took time away from a Southern California
technology conference to dine with a senior executive at  Google (GOOG) 
Inc., the subject of an intensifying government antitrust probe.  Leibowitz had lunch yesterday with Susan Wojcicki, Google’s
senior vice president of advertising, at  Catalina Kitchen  at the
Terranea Resort in  Rancho Palos Verdes . The pair were attending
the D10 conference, put on by technology blog AllThingsD.  Wojcicki spearheaded Google’s $3.1 billion acquisition of
DoubleClick Inc., an Internet-advertising company, and was
involved in Google’s purchase of AdMob Inc., which specializes
in mobile ads. Google’s advertising practices are part of the
FTC’s antitrust investigation.  The agency is examining whether the company unfairly
increases ad rates for competitors, people familiar with the
matter have said. FTC officials have also asked rival shopping
and review websites whether Google sells them prime advertising
space on search results pages, people with knowledge of the
matter said earlier this month.  The FTC is seeking to determine whether Google is using its
dominance to thwart competition among Internet companies. Google
was used in 67 percent of U.S. searches in April, according to
 ComScore Inc ., a Reston, Virginia-based market researcher.  “There are certainly allegations that the search results
have changed or evolved over the years,” Leibowitz said on
stage yesterday at the conference. “We’re trying to figure out
if the evidence is there and what the theories are.”  Investigation Intensifies  In a separate interview yesterday with Bloomberg, Leibowitz
said he recently held meetings with executives at Square Inc.,
Reputation.com Inc.,  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and Mozilla Corp. to discuss
online privacy.  “It’s valuable to keep lines of communication open” with
leaders in the technology industry, Leibowitz said.  The investigation of  Mountain View , California-based Google
has intensified in recent weeks as agency lawyers prepare to
question  Eric Schmidt , the company’s chairman and its chief
defender against antitrust charges.  The agency in April hired  Beth Wilkinson , a top Washington
litigator, to run the antitrust investigation.  “When you have an opportunity to get someone of Beth’s
stature and abilities, you would always want to take her up on
it,” Leibowitz said. “It doesn’t mean that we’ve decided to
bring a case at all, it just means that we have very competent
counsel who can go toe-to-toe with their very competent
counsel,” he said, referring to Google.  Google Shopping  Google said in a blog post yesterday that it’s starting a
product-search service Google Shopping and will require
retailers to pay for inclusion in the listings. Google rivals
have criticized the company for giving preference to Google
product listings in search results.  The charges to manufacturers and retailers represent a
change in Google’s practices,  Danny Sullivan , an Internet search
analyst, said in a column this week on the Marketing Land blog.
In its 2004 initial public offering letter, Google said the
company wouldn’t accept payment for including specific search
results.  Wojcicki was one of Google’s first employees. She rented
out space in her garage to the company’s co-founders,  Larry Page 
and  Sergey Brin , when they started the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  