-- FTS Downgraded on Chesapeake's Drilling Cutback Plan
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-05-31T21:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/fts-downgraded-on-chesapeake-s-drilling-cutback-plan.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s plan to
reduce drilling next year to cope with a cash crunch contributed
to Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services credit downgrade of a
hydraulic-fracturing company it partially owns.  S&P lowered its ratings on FTS International Services LLC’s
corporate credit and term loans to B from B+ and senior
unsecured debt to BB- from BB. The BB- rating is three levels
below investment-grade and B is two notches below that.  FTS’s profit outlook has dimmed amid rising costs and
capacity additions across the so-called fracking industry that
are outpacing demand growth, Carin Dehne-Kiley, a New York-based
S&P analyst, wrote in a note to clients today.  Chesapeake, the second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer
after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , accounts for about a quarter of  Fort
Worth , Texas-based FTS’s contracted revenue for 2012, Dehne-
Kiley wrote. Facing a $22 billion cash shortfall this year and
next because of tumbling gas prices, Chesapeake has proposed
cutting spending on drilling, fracking and other project costs.  FTS’s 7.125 percent bonds due in November 2018 quoted at
99.6 cents on the dollar to yield 8.2 percent today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. They were quoted at par as
recently as May 17 to yield 8.124 percent.  Liquidity Questions  “We view FTS’s liquidity as less than adequate,” Dehne-
Kiley wrote. “Chesapeake has indicated publicly that it plans
to reduce drilling capital by over $1 billion (13%) between 2012
and 2013, so its fracking needs are likely to drop.”  Fracking involves pumping high-pressure jets of water, sand
and chemicals into wells to smash fissures into the surrounding
rocks so oil and gas can flow. Chesapeake, one of the pioneers
in the use of fracking to tap geologic formations impervious to
traditional drilling methods, is part owner of FTS and controls
two board seats.  Dehne-Kiley said she expects FTS’s ratio of debt to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
to rise to 4.3 by the end of this year and 6 in late 2013 from
2.3 at the end of 2011. S&P would revise its outlook to stable
if FTS reduces debt through a cash infusion from a “strategic
investor” and an initial share sale.  FTS is led by Chief Executive Officer Marcus Rowland, one
of the first investors in Chesapeake when it was co-founded by
Aubrey McClendon and  Tom Ward  in 1989. Rowland was Chesapeake’s
chief financial officer for 18 years before stepping down in
2010. McClendon and Chesapeake CFO Domenic Dell’Osso are FTS
directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  