-- Gates Foundation Veteran Yamada Retools Drugmaker Takeda
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-05-31T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/gates-foundation-veteran-yamada-retools-drugmaker-takeda-health.html
Tadataka “Tachi” Yamada led global
health programs for Bill and  Melinda Gates , oversaw
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s research, was head physician at the
 University of Michigan  and wrote gastroenterology textbooks. He
now has an even bigger task: revitalizing  drug development  for a
company that’s not found a blockbuster in 13 years.  In his first six months as chief medical and scientific
officer at  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , Asia’s largest drugmaker,
Yamada, 66, created a unit to move into the $25.3 billion global
vaccines market and began contests to spur research ideas. He
has also focused marketing on poorer nations, where drug demand
is growing four times faster than in developed countries.  Yamada is pressing for change at Takeda because the  Osaka ,
Japan-based company needs new discoveries to replace Actos, the
diabetes pill that generated $4.8 billion in the year ended
March 2011. That drug’s prospects have been diminished, though,
as cheaper generics enter the market this August.  “Takeda has to build up its pipeline now,” said Atsushi Seki, a health-care analyst at Barclays Plc in Tokyo. “I’m
hopeful Yamada will introduce global ways of managing R&D.”  Takeda is betting Yamada’s experience will help the 230-
year-old firm better compete with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Roche Holding AG (ROG) 
and Glaxo, and leverage off last year’s 9.6 billion euro ($12
billion) purchase of Swiss rival Nycomed that added customers in
42 more countries.  Sagging Profit  Flagging demand for the diabetes tablet and Nycomed
acquisition costs will  drag  Takeda’s operating profit down 40
percent to a 14-year-low of 160 billion yen ($2 billion) in the
year ending March 2013, the company said on May 11.  Actos, first sold in the U.S. in 1999, generated 20 percent
of Takeda’s 1.51 trillion yen of revenue in the year ended March
31. Sales of the drug will plunge 66 percent to 100 billion yen
in the current year, the company predicted.  Efforts to find replacements have met with disappointment.
Takeda has lost more than half its  market value  since October
2007, when a cholesterol pill in late-stage studies failed
safety tests and was later shelved. Marketing approval for
alogliptin, the drugmaker’s most promising successor to Actos,
has been delayed three years, held up by requests from
regulators for more safety data. Its absence in the market
helped Merck & Co.’s rival treatment, Januvia, generate  $3.3
billion (MRK)  last year.  Takeda has four  experimental medicines  from its own
laboratories in final-stage patient studies in the U.S.: a novel
diabetes pill, and treatments for prostate and blood cancer, and
ulcerative colitis.  Coming Home  Over a 2-hour meeting at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
 Switzerland , in January 2011, Takeda President  Yasuchika Hasegawa  persuaded Yamada to lend his expertise to overhauling
what he said was “a rather deadlocked” R&D effort. That suited
Tokyo-born Yamada, who left  Japan  at age 15 and wanted to
contribute to his mother country before retiring.  “He decided to give us a hand because he couldn’t stand by
and watch while we struggled,” Hasegawa, 65, said in an
interview.  Yamada, who was asked by Hasegawa to work at Takeda for at
least four years, has made his first task trying to uncover
hidden talent within the group’s labs. He introduced a contest
in April 2011 in which researchers anonymously submit research
proposals for grant money. The 25 best pitches, as voted by a
panel of referees, are awarded as much as $50,000. Another,
dubbed “beauty and the beast,” has staff voting for the best
and worst ideas.  New Metrics  Yamada has also encouraged Takeda scientists to focus their
work first and foremost on needed treatments, rather than the
volume of potential drugs produced, he said.  “Meeting unmet medicals needs with innovative solutions is
the only way you get paid,” Yamada said in an interview from
the company’s  Tokyo  office.  Yamada recruited Rajeev Venkayya, a critical care
specialist and former Special Assistant to President  George W.
Bush  for Biodefense, from the Gates Foundation in January to
helm an expansion of Takeda’s vaccines unit. The business, which
supplies only shots for the Japanese market, is developing a
four-in-one pediatric immunization using a novel  polio  strain
and a vaccine for  Haemophilus influnzae type b , or Hib.  People in low- and middle-income countries will eventually
demand the vaccines used in richer nations, Yamada said. “The
opportunity is clear,” he said.  The worldwide vaccines market excluding  North America ,
 European Union members  and Japan, probably expanded 11 percent
to $6.78 billion last year and will increase about 10 percent
annually for the next five years, researcher Kalorama
Information said.  ‘Room for Others’  “They are large markets now and there is room for
others,” said Bruce Carlson, publisher at Kalorama. Economic-
and population-growth in  emerging markets  mean they have
“strong pent up demand” for the vaccines sold in developed
countries, Carlson said in an e-mail.  Yamada managed a $9 billion health fund tackling global
killers such as AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria for the Gates
Foundation, and helped negotiate lower prices for life-saving
childhood vaccinations, said  Bill Gates , the foundation’s
billionaire co-chairman.  Bill Gates  “Tachi took us from being an organization of grant-makers
to one with strategies focused on results,” Gates, 56, said in
an e-mail. “At every turn he pushed his team to be innovative.
He is able to think about the science and, at the same time,
care deeply about the people we serve.”  Tokyo-born Yamada, a grandson of the first Japanese citizen
to be fully trained as an American physician, studied medicine
in the U.S. and became the chairman of internal medicine at the
 University of Michigan Medical School . His father, Tadayoshi, is
a former senior managing director of Yawata Iron & Steel Co.,
which later became  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) , Japan’s largest
steelmaker. The younger Yamada was president of the American
Gastroenterological Association and edited the  Textbook of
Gastroenterology  before joining London-based Glaxo, where he was
appointed chairman of R&D in 2000.  Yamada is one of eight senior executives hired by Takeda in
the past four years. The others include Frank Morich, who led
Bayer AG’s health-care unit; Deborah Dunsire, chief executive
officer of Millennium Pharmaceutical Inc., which Takeda bought
in 2008; and Paul Chapman, hired from Glaxo to head research.  Leading “an organization that’s becoming multicultural,”
is an opportunity Yamada said he relishes. “I’m very Japanese
still, but I can be a bridge to Western culture,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  