-- German Retail Sales Rose for a Second Straight Month in April
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-05-31T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/german-retail-sales-rose-for-a-second-straight-month-in-april.html
German retail sales increased for a
second straight month in April as unemployment at a two-decade
low and rising wages bolstered household purchasing power.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, rose 0.6
percent from March, when they advanced 1.6 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists forecast a
gain of 0.2 percent, the median of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg
News  survey  showed. Sales dropped 3.8 percent from a year ago.  Falling unemployment and a growing economy are helping
German workers win bigger pay increases, boosting the outlook
for household spending. Still,  Europe ’s escalating sovereign
debt crisis may weigh on sentiment. German  consumer confidence 
will hold steady in June after declining this month, the GfK
market research company said on May 25.  “Private consumption is benefiting from the still positive
development in the labor market and recent salary gains,” said
Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover,  Germany . “Lower
inflation rates also mean that consumers have more to spend in
real terms.”  Inflation, calculated using a harmonized European Union
method, slowed to 2.1 percent in May, a 16-month low, on
declining energy prices. German unemployment probably held at
6.8 percent in May, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists. The Federal Labor Agency will publish that report at
9:55 a.m. in Nuremberg today.  Douglas Holding AG (DOU) , the German cosmetics retailer, on May 9
reported a 2 percent increase in sales in the seven months
through April, led by demand in its home market.  German business confidence nevertheless fell more than
economists forecast in May as speculation that  Greece  might
leave the euro area clouded the economic outlook.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said on May 24 its business
climate index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to
106.9 from 109.9 in April. That was the steepest decline since
August, when the region’s debt crisis spread to Italy and  Spain ,
and below all 37 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. The median forecast was for a decrease to 109.4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  