-- German Jobless Rate Drops to Two-Decade Low
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-05-31T10:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/german-unemployment-unchanged-in-may-as-crisis-staved-off.html
Germany ’s  unemployment  rate slid to a
new two-decade low in May, bucking a Europe-wide trend as the
financial crisis rages.  The seasonally adjusted  jobless rate  declined to 6.7
percent from 6.8 percent in April after revisions, the Federal
Labor Agency in Nuremberg said today. The number of people out
of work was unchanged at 2.87 million. Economists forecast a
decline of 7,000, the median of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed.  German unemployment fell for 27 straight months until
October, when the euro-area debt crisis began to expose gaps in
the resilience of  Europe ’s biggest economy. With exports to
Germany’s main European partners sagging, domestic demand is
helping to compensate, driving economic growth forecast to be
0.7 percent this year after 3 percent in 2011, Economy Minister
Philipp Roesler said April 25.  The “great drops in unemployment of recent years” may now
be over,  Eckart Tuchtfeld , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt , said by telephone. Still, “despite the shadow cast
by the crisis, the preconditions for unemployment to continue
falling are still there in the economy, including not-
inconsiderable export growth.”  Germany’s joblessness decline to the lowest since
reunification has paid multiple dividends, including savings of
32 billion euros ($40 billion) in  federal budget  outlays in 2011
compared with 2005, when unemployment reached a post-World War
II record, the labor agency said in a May 22 report. The trend
is also a showcase for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s anti-crisis
policy of budget cuts and economic overhauls including labor-
market reform.  Germany vs Spain  Unemployment in the 17-nation euro area may average 11
percent this year, twice Germany’s 5.5 percent, the European
Commission said on May 11, citing forecasts based on its own
criteria. In  Spain , where Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is
struggling to rescue the country’s banks amid a recession,
unemployment may average 24.4 percent, while Greece, where June
17 elections may determine its future in the euro, faces a
jobless rate of 19.7 percent.  Demand for workers in Germany “remains at a high level” and
a turning point toward higher unemployment “definitely” isn’t in
sight, Frank-Juergen Weise, the labor agency’s head, told
reporters in Nuremberg. “Nearly all” industries are
experiencing high demand, the agency’s BA-X index of situations
vacant showed yesterday. It cited “large numbers” of vacancies
in wholesaling and retailing, in health and social services.  Robert Bosch  Stuttgart-based  Robert Bosch  GmbH, the world’s largest car-
parts marker, may add 2,000 jobs in Germany this year, absorbing
an estimated extra 200 million euros in wage costs over 13
months, its human resources chief, Christoph Kuebel, said in a
May 24 interview in the Stuttgarter Nachrichten newspaper. “The
bigger the wage increase, the more difficult it is to maintain
international competitiveness,” Kuebel was cited as saying.  Moderate wage claims that helped the economy climb out of
recession in 2009 are being abandoned in industries from banks
to engineering. At the same time, the extra money in workers’
pockets is helping bolster private consumption. The Ver.di union
won a 6.5 percent wage increase in April for 2 million public-
sector workers, while  IG Metall , Europe’s biggest union, agreed
a 4.3 percent increase for 800,000 workers this month in the
state of Baden-Wuerttemberg.  ‘Losing Momentum’  “The German  labour market  is losing momentum but this is
not yet a cause for concern, at least not for this year,” said
 Carsten Brzeski , a senior economist at ING Group in Brussels.
“With a new boost from latest wage settlements, domestic demand
might not be a strong, but definitely an important, growth
driver.”  Consumer confidence  in Germany will hold steady in June,
indicating resistance among households to the fallout of the
crisis, the GfK SE consumer-sentiment index showed on May 25.
While Germans are in a “favorable buying mood,” that “could
very quickly be brought to a standstill” if the situation in
 Greece  and the wider euro area deteriorates further, the GfK
said.  While “positive trends persist,” in the short-term the
“euro crisis is likely to weigh on the labor market,”
 Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in London, said
in a note.  German business confidence suffered its steepest decline in
nine months in May, the Ifo economic institute said on May 24.
Plant and machinery orders, a bellwether for exports, decreased
for a fifth month in March, the VDMA machine-makers’ association
said May 3.  Called to Parliament  Unemployment has risen in three of the past eight months
after declining for more than two years, prompting lawmakers in
Berlin to summon Weise to parliament on May 23 to assess the
outlook for joblessness.  Data on joblessness, employment and vacancies are all “in
good shape,” he said today. Even so, “it’s unrealistic” to
expect “constant big drops” in unemployment.  “Germany’s economic armor is beginning to show the wear
and tear of the crisis,” Stephen Webster, chief European
economist at 4Cast Ltd. in  London , said in an interview. “And
unemployment is not immune.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  