-- GM Goes From Super Bowl to Soccer With Manchester United
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-05-31T20:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/gm-goes-from-super-bowl-to-soccer-with-manchester-united.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , after ditching
costly Super Bowl ads, is betting a five-year sponsorship of the
Manchester United soccer club will bolster its Chevrolet line in
the first test of the brand’s new global marketing strategy.  Manchester United, the 19-time English champion football
team, has a worldwide reach that fits with the automaker’s
desire to make Chevrolet a global icon,  Paul Edwards , GM
executive director of global marketing strategy, said in an
interview prior to today’s announcement.  “It’s clear that global football presented us with a
significant opportunity to spread Chevrolet around the world,”
he said. “We recognized that it’s not only the world’s biggest
sport but also the world’s most engaged fans.”  The agreement follows GM’s decision this month to halt paid
advertising on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social-networking website and
forgo next year’s Super Bowl championship game of the  National
Football League  in the U.S. The moves are among the first steps
of Chief Marketing Officer  Joel Ewanick ’s efforts to revamp
Chevrolet’s marketing with a new global agency and save $2
billion over five years.  “There’s a lot of value in the Super Bowl,” Ewanick told
reporters today at the automaker’s Detroit headquarters. “But
at one point it gets to be too expensive. Enough is enough, you
have to pull back.”  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson wants to make Chevrolet
and  Cadillac  into global brands, less dependent on the U.S.
market. While Chevy is known in the U.S. for its brawny trucks
and Corvette sports car, many Chevrolets sold in Asia and Europe
are smaller vehicles designed and engineered in  South Korea .  Global Message  That’s why GM is working to craft a more global message for
the brand that can be tailored for many markets, said Alan Baum,
principal of auto-industry forecaster Baum & Associates in West
Bloomfield,  Michigan .  “Now that they feel reasonably comfortable about the
product, how can we leverage that?” he said, describing the
company’s thinking. “It’s going to take a little bit of time
and look a little messy.”  Sponsoring  Manchester United  emerged from Ewanick’s
decision to shift all Chevrolet advertising to a newly formed
agency called Commonwealth, Edwards said. That firm, a joint
venture between  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC) ’s Goodby, Silverstein &
Partners and Interpublic Group of Companies Inc.’s McCann
Erickson, replaces 70 agencies that had worked on the Chevrolet
business, the company has said.  Ewanick’s aim is to focus on effective spending. More than
20 television ads, he said, were created to promote the
 Chevrolet Cruze  compact car around the world when only a half-
dozen were really needed.  Pennies Saved  “Every penny matters,” Ewanick said in an interview
earlier this year. “It may seem like a little thing you do in
 Thailand . But if you take that little thing in Thailand, a
little thing in  Brazil , a little thing in  Germany  and  France  and
you add it up, it becomes a big thing.”  The  Chevrolet  experiment could serve as an example for
Cadillac, Ewanick said.  “This model is one that definitely will be pursued by
every global brand,” Ewanick said.  GM declined to say how much the Manchester United
sponsorship will cost. It allows  Chevy  signage in Manchester
United’s stadium and access to the team for TV, print and other
media for use worldwide, Edwards said. Manchester United games
are broadcast in 1.15 billion homes, 80 percent of the world’s
households with televisions, according to GM.  The Chevy logo also will appear on player benches and the
company will be able to seek endorsement deals with individual
players, Ewanick said.  China Exposure  In August, shipper DHL Worldwide Express paid Manchester
United, also known as Man U, 40 million pounds ($62 million) for
the right to put its logo on the team’s training apparel for
four years.  Aon Corp. (AON)  pays 20 million pounds a year to put its
log on competition jerseys.  While Chevy’s sponsorship doesn’t include putting the
Chevrolet name or logo on Manchester United jerseys, the company
says the deal will pay off far from the team’s home base, where
Chevy accounted for 0.9 percent of new-vehicle registrations in
the U.K. in the first four months of this year. For instance,
Manchester United is playing two exhibition games this off-
season in  China , one against Shanghai Shenhua FC, where GM is
the top-selling foreign automaker.  Donation Plan  “The global fan base we have and the media exposure we
generate on Chinese media channels are huge,” said Manchester
United’s Commercial Director Richard Arnold. “We have 108
million followers in that part of the world, so it’s a powerful
mix, one that western companies use to drive brand affinity.”  GM also said today it plans to donate 1.5 million soccer
balls that don’t go flat, even when punctured, over three years
to children in war zones, refugee camps and other impoverished
areas through  One World Futbol , a project started in 2010.  Chevrolet is now founding sponsor of the group, which has
given away soccer balls in 137 countries, GM said.  The decision to sponsor Manchester United isn’t related to
GM’s move to stop  Super Bowl  advertising, marketing strategy
chief Edwards said. Still, the numbers are compelling.  When Manchester United played against  Manchester City 
“that audience around the world scaled to 600 million people,”
Edwards said. “Compare that to the Super Bowl here in the
States, which is roughly 110, 115 million, and you’re talking
five times that audience watching one regular-season game. It’s
significant.”  One sign of Manchester United’s popularity: Its website is
translated into seven languages, including Arabic, Japanese,
Korean and Chinese.  “Man U is global,” said  Jim Hall , a principal of 2953
Analytics Inc., a consulting firm in Birmingham, Michigan.
“There’s really nothing like it.”  GM slid 0.8 percent to $22.20 at the close in  New York . The
shares have risen 9.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  