-- Goldman’s Blankfein to Testify at Gupta Trial, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-05-31T19:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/goldman-s-blankfein-to-testify-at-gupta-trial-u-s-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  will testify at the insider-
trading trial of the bank’s former director  Rajat Gupta , a
prosecutor said.  With jurors briefly out of the courtroom today, Assistant
U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff
in Manhattan that prosecutors would call Blankfein as their
next-to-last witness before wrapping up about June 6. Brodsky
didn’t say what Blankfein would testify about.  Blankfein testified at last year’s trial of Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, to whom Gupta is accused of
leaking inside information. Rajaratnam was convicted and
sentenced to 11 years in prison. Gupta denies wrongdoing.  At Rajaratnam’s trial, Blankfein said Gupta violated
Goldman Sachs’s confidentiality policies by allegedly telling
Rajaratnam about the firm’s earnings and strategic plans.  “We don’t want information about our company to get
outside before the time is appropriate,” Blankfein testified on
March 23, 2011.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment on Blankfein as a witness in Gupta’s trial.  Defense attorney  Gary Naftalis  identified likely defense
witnesses, listing Gupta family members and Gupta’s personal
assistant. Naftalis also said he planned on reading deposition
testimony from  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s reinsurance chief,  Ajit Jain , a close friend of Gupta’s. Naftalis said he didn’t know
yet whether Gupta will testify on his own behalf.  Berkshire Investment  Gupta, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is on
trial for leaking tips about Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG) , where he was also a director. One of the alleged tips
involved a Berkshire Hathaway investment in Goldman Sachs. Gupta
has pleaded not guilty.  Rajaratnam and Gupta are the biggest figures yet to be
caught up in a nationwide  insider-trading  probe. Gupta is
charged with conspiracy and securities fraud, which carries a
maximum 20-year prison sentence.  Earlier today, a government witness testified that Gupta
joined a Galleon executive on a marketing trip to the  Middle
East  and was named by Rajaratnam to be chairman of a Galleon
investment fund.  Ayad Alhadi, who was a Galleon marketing executive from
February 2008 to October 2009, told jurors about Gupta’s role in
helping Galleon recruit clients. Prosecutors offered the
evidence to highlight the business relationship between the two
men and to provide a motive for Gupta’s alleged leaks.  ‘Friend and Adviser’  “He was going to be helping Galleon meet prospective
investors,” Alhadi said of a two-day trip he and Gupta took to
the  United Arab Emirates  beginning on March 31, 2008. Before
that trip, Alhadi said he sent an e-mail to a banker in
 Switzerland  calling Gupta “a friend and adviser to Galleon.”  Alhadi also told jurors about a meeting in Rajaratnam’s
office on March 28, 2008, where the Galleon co-founder said
Gupta, who was present, “would be the new chairman of Galleon
International” and responsible for investments outside the U.S.  “I think I congratulated him,” Alhadi said. Gupta may not
have been officially named Galleon International chairman,
Alhadi said.  Alhadi testified that after the trip, one of the sovereign
wealth funds he and Gupta met with on their Middle East trip
agreed to invest $25 million in a Galleon fund and pledged to
invest another $50 million four days after meeting them again at
Galleon’s office in  New York . Alhadi described this development
in an e-mail to his Galleon superiors as “a startling
investment.”  He testified that in September 2008, Gupta asked for the
“contact details” of potential investors the two had met in
the Middle East.  $400 Million  “He said he was raising a telecommunications fund with the
current or former chairman of AT&T,” Alhadi testified. “He
said AT&T would invest $400 million in this billion-dollar fund
if Mr. Gupta could come up with the rest of the money.”  Alhadi said he heard nothing more about the possible fund
after the conversation.  During cross-examination by one of Gupta’s defense lawyers,
Robin Wilcox, Alhadi testified that agents with the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  appeared, unannounced, at his home at 6
a.m. on Aug. 3, 2011. He later met with prosecutors and agents
two more times, he testified.  “Did you ever tell the government that for some investors,
having a meeting with Mr. Gupta was like having a meeting with a
rock star?” Wilcox asked.  “I don’t remember saying that,” Alhadi answered.  Kumar Testimony  With Alhadi’s testimony, prosecutors are seeking to counter
a defense claim that Rajaratnam and Gupta had a falling out at
the time of the alleged leaks. Defense lawyers say Rajaratnam
lost $10 million that Gupta invested in a Galleon fund,
prompting Gupta to consider a lawsuit.  Ex-McKinsey director  Anil Kumar  may testify as early as
today, Brodsky told Rakoff. At Rajaratnam’s trial, part of
Kumar’s testimony focused on the relationship between Gupta and
Rajaratnam. Kumar has pleaded guilty to insider trading and is
testifying for prosecutors in a bid for leniency.  Among defense witnesses named by Naftalis were Rick Schutte, Galleon’s former U.S. president; Richard Feachem,
executive director of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis & Malaria; and Gregory Orman, Gupta’s financial
adviser. Naftalis didn’t say what the witnesses would testify
about.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  