-- Goldman’s Cohn Warns of Poaching Risks From Further Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-05-31T16:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/goldman-s-cohn-warns-of-poaching-risks-from-further-cuts.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  President
 Gary Cohn  said the firm is limited by competitive pressures in
how much further it can cut compensation as its seeks to
increase returns.  “There is enormous pressure out there, even in a market
environment like this, for the best people,” Cohn said today at
a  New York  investor conference. “There’s always a competitor or
in some cases a client willing to hire our good people.”  Goldman Sachs reduced compensation costs by 40 percent
since 2007, while its U.S. peers cut just 1 percent, according
to a presentation Cohn gave. Managing pay is one way to make up
for lower leverage as it seeks to improve returns on equity, the
firm said. Still, Cohn said the New York-based firm can’t risk
defections of its top performers.  “Losing those good people will have a dramatic impact on
revenue,” Cohn said. “It’s not as simple as just paying people
less and increasing dividends.”  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, could
have increased the average ROE over the last 13 years by about 3
percentage points if it had applied its 39 percent compensation
ratio from the last three years to the period before the
financial crisis, according to the presentation. That would more
than offset the reduction in ROE resulting from a cap of 20
times leverage, the firm said.  Goldman Sachs set aside $4.4 billion for employee
compensation in the first quarter, enough to give each of its
32,400 employees $135,123. A year earlier, the company’s
$5.23 billion first-quarter compensation expense equaled
$147,825 for each of the 35,400 employees at the time.  The firm is reducing compensation costs in part by
increasing hiring in what it called “high-value locations,”
including  Salt Lake City ,  Dallas , Singapore and Bangalore,
 India . Those cities cost 40 percent to 75 percent less than New
York, London and  Tokyo , Cohn said. More than a third of the
firm’s hires since 2011 have been in the lower-cost locations,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  