-- Google Wins Copyright Ruling on Use of Java in Android
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-05-31T23:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/google-wins-copyright-ruling-on-use-of-java-in-android.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  was free to replicate and
use elements of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s Java programming language when it
developed Android software, a federal judge said in dismissing
Oracle’s claim that Google infringed its copyrights.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup in San Francisco said in
a ruling today that “copyright law does not confer ownership
over any and all ways” to implement Java. Oracle sued Google in
2010 alleging the search-engine provider infringed copyrights
when it used Oracle’s Java application programming interfaces,
software tools programmers use, to create Android.  “Google has violated no copyright, it being undisputed
that Google’s implementations are different,” Alsup said today.  Jurors found May 7 that Google infringed Oracle’s
copyrights and deadlocked on whether it was “fair use.”
Without a jury verdict on that question, Alsup said  Redwood
City , California-based Oracle couldn’t seek any damages, which
it had estimated at $1 billion, from  Mountain View , California-
based Google. The same jury ruled May 23 that Google’s program
didn’t infringe two Java patents at issue.  The jury found that Google infringed Oracle’s copyrights
for nine lines of code; Oracle can seek seek about $150,000 in
statutory damages for that.  Oracle will appeal today’s ruling, said  Deborah Hellinger ,
a company spokeswoman.  ‘More Difficult’  “This ruling, if permitted to stand, would undermine the
protection for innovation and invention in the  United States  and
make it far more difficult to defend intellectual property
rights against companies anywhere in the world that simply takes
them as their own,” said she in an e-mail.  Oracle acquired Java when it bought Sun Microsystems Inc.
in 2010. Sun and Google had unsuccessful talks about co-
developing Android years before. Oracle alleged that Google
should have paid for a license to use Java to develop Android,
now running in 300 million mobile devices. Google said its use
of Java was fair and legal.  Alsup said before trial that while the jury would be asked
to decide whether Google infringed Oracle’s copyrights and
patents, he would ultimately rule on whether Java’s software
tools were covered by copyright.  Copyright Law  He said today that his ruling doesn’t mean that Java’s
tools are free for anyone to use without a license, rather that
the elements that Google copied are free for anyone to use under
copyright law.  The judge dismissed Google’s request for a new trial on
copyright infringement, saying in a ruling today that the issue
is now moot.  “The court’s decision upholds the principle that open and
interoperable computer languages form an essential basis for
software development,” Jim Prosser, a Google spokesman, said in
an e-mail.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  