-- Google Seeks .google, .youtube, .lol in Suffix Expansion
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-05-31T17:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/google-seeks-google-youtube-lol-in-suffix-expansion.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  has applied for its own
top-level domains including .google and .youtube under a program
to expand the number of Web suffixes beyond the commonly used
.com and .org, the company said.  Google, owner of the world’s largest search engine, also
applied for other suffixes such as .docs and .lol under the
program run by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and
Numbers, the non-profit organization that manages the Internet’s
address system.  The company is applying for domains that reflect its
trademarks, relate to its core business, or will improve user
experience, Vint Cerf, Google’s chief Internet evangelist, said
in a post on the company’s blog today. The .youtube domain could
make it easier to identify channels and genres on Google’s
YouTube video-sharing website, Cerf said. The .lol domain,
mimicking the text-message shorthand for “laugh out loud,” has
interesting and creative potential, he said.  “We’re just beginning to explore this potential source of
innovation on the Web,” Cerf said. “By opening up more choices
for Internet domain names, we hope people will find options for
more diverse -- and perhaps shorter -- signposts in
cyberspace.”  Companies’ Opposition  With its announcement, Google becomes one of the first
large companies to publicly state an interest in the top-level
domain program, which is opposed by more than 40 companies
including  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  that say it
will increase their costs, confuse consumers, and spark Internet
fraud.  Icann, which is based in  Marina del Rey ,  California  and
operates under a U.S. Commerce Department contract, approved the
domain expansion last year in a move to spur online innovation.  The group accepted applications this year for new words to
the right of the dot in a Web address, including company and
city names. The application process was interrupted by a
technical malfunction that closed the system for more than a
month, and Icann closed the application period yesterday.  Icann, which has said the expansion could result in
thousands of new Web suffixes, plans to publish the list of
applied-for domains on June 13.  Search Results  Google will make security and abuse protection a high
priority with its new top-level domains, and will work with
brand owners on protection mechanisms, Cerf said.  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission said in December that the
plan may increase opportunities for Internet fraud and called on
Icann to reduce the number of domains created.  Google will attempt to rank new top-level domains
“appropriately,” Matt Cutts, a principal engineer who heads
the company’s Web spam team, said in a March 14  post  on the
Google+ social networking service.  Cutts said he wanted to dispel a perception that new top-
level domains, known as TLDs, would be favored in Google search
results.  “I don’t expect a new TLD to get any kind of initial
preference over .com, and I wouldn’t bet on that happening in
the long-term either,” Cutts wrote.  The  American Bankers Association  and the Financial Services
Roundtable applied for .bank and .insurance top-level domains on
behalf of the financial services industry, the two groups said
in a news release today.  The domains will follow online security standards to
safeguard consumers, and all financial institutions using the
domains must be chartered by regulators in their home countries,
according to the release.  Editors: Bernie Kohn, Robin Meszoly  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 