-- Google Loses Bid to Dismiss Claims in Digital Book Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-06-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/google-motion-to-dismiss-claims-in-digital-book-case-is-denied.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  lost a court bid to
dismiss claims by groups including the Author’s Guild and the
American Society of Media Photographers in two lawsuits over
electronic books.  U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin  in New York, sitting as a
federal trial judge in the case, rejected Google’s arguments
that the groups lacked standing to sue over claims the search
engine company’s digital scanning of millions of books infringed
the copyright owners’ rights.  Chin also granted a request for three individual plaintiffs
to represent a nationwide class of copyright holders in the
Author’s Guild suit.  “Given the sweeping and undiscriminating nature of
Google’s unauthorized copying, it would be unjust to require
that each affected association member litigate his claim
individually,” the judge said.  “When Google copied works, it did not conduct an inquiry
into the copyright ownership of each work; nor did it conduct an
individualized evaluation as to whether posting ‘snippets’ of a
particular work would constitute ‘fair use.’”  The suits stem from Google’s plan, announced in 2004, to
digitally scan books from public and university libraries to
provide short snippets of text to people who use its Internet
search engine. The Authors Guild, individual authors and
publishing companies sued in 2005, claiming the  Mountain View ,
California-based company hadn’t sought authorization from the
owners of the works.  ‘Fully Compliant’  “As we’ve said all along, we are confident that  Google
Books  is fully compliant with copyright law,” Maggie Shiels, a
Google spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
“Today’s decision doesn’t determine the underlying merits of
the case, nor does it resolve the lawsuit.”  Google has argued that the display of snippets of text is
fair use under copyright law. Chin asked Google yesterday why it
was important at this stage of the case to determine the
ownership of the copyrights.  Google said in a February court filing that it has scanned
more than 20 million books, and that Web users can see excerpts
in English from more than 4 million of them. The project began
with the digitizing of books from the libraries of the
 University of Michigan ,  Harvard University ,  Stanford University ,
Oxford University and the  New York Public Library .  The judge last year declined to approve a proposed
settlement, saying it was “an attempt to use the class action
mechanism to implement forward-looking business arrangements
that go far beyond the dispute before the court.”  The authors’ case is Authors Guild v. Google, 05-08136; the
visual artists’ case is American Society of Media Photographers
v. Google, 10-02977; U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  