-- Google Files Complaint in Europe Against Microsoft, Nokia
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-06-01T12:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/google-files-complaint-in-europe-against-microsoft-correct-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  filed an antitrust
complaint with the European Commission against  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , saying the companies are using patents to thwart
competition.  The complaint focuses on a transfer Nokia and Microsoft
made last year of some 2,000 patents and patent applications to
Mosaid Technologies Inc., a Canadian company known for its
patent litigation, said Jim Prosser, a spokesman for Google.
Most of the patents relate to industry standards for wireless
technology, and Microsoft has publicly pledged it wouldn’t use
such patents to block competitors from the market.  “Nokia and Microsoft are colluding to raise the costs of
mobile devices for consumers, creating patent trolls that side-
step promises both companies have made,”  Mountain View ,
California-based Google said in an e-mailed statement, using a
pejorative term for companies that use patents only to demand
royalties rather than to make products.  “They should be held accountable, and we hope our
complaint spurs others to look into these practices,” Google
said.  Microsoft and Nokia get a share of any proceeds Mosaid
raises from licensing the patents.  Google’s complaint may prompt an investigation by the same
European Union antitrust authority that is probing Google’s
Motorola Mobility over its use of so-called standard-essential
patents in litigation against Microsoft and Apple Inc. The EU
investigations were triggered by complaints by those two
companies.  ’Frivolous’ Complaint  A copy of Google’s complaint wasn’t available.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission
in Brussels, confirmed that regulators had received the filing
and said they would examine it.  Nokia hasn’t yet seen the “frivolous” complaint, Mark Durrant, a spokesman for Nokia, said in an e-mailed statement.
Nokia has made several patent divestments over the past five
years and has transferred any commitments for standard-essential
patents to the acquirer while existing licenses for the patent
continue, he said.  “Had Google asked us, we would have been happy to confirm
this, which could then have avoided them wasting the
commission’s time and resources,” Durrant said. “Google’s
suggestion that Nokia and Microsoft are colluding on
intellectual property rights is wrong. Both companies have their
own IPR portfolios and strategies and operate independently.”  Nokia had been the world’s largest handset manufacturer,
only to see its market share eroded by competition from Apple’s
iPhone and devices that run on Google’s Android operating
system. Last year, Espoo, Finland-based Nokia agreed to switch
from its own Symbian and Meego operating systems to Microsoft’s
Windows Phone platform.  Companies get together to establish standards so that
products can work together, such as for Wi-Fi, video compression
or digital transmissions. Those that help establish the
standards pledge to license their patents on fair and reasonable
terms.  Dueling Claims  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft has criticized Motorola
Mobility, which Google  acquired  earlier this month, for its use
of standard-essential patents to seek orders that would block
sales of Microsoft’s products. The software maker is awaiting a
judge’s ruling on claims Motorola Mobility breached its
obligations.  Patents have become a central weapon in the global battle
over market share for smartphones and tablet computers, with
billions of dollars being spent to buy patents, and lawsuits
being filed across four continents.  Earlier this month, Nokia filed patent-infringement
complaints in the U.S. and  Germany  against  HTC Corp. (2498)  over its
Android phones and against ViewSonic Corp., which makes tablet
computers that run on Android.  Mosaid hasn’t seen Google’s complaint and so couldn’t
comment, said Michael Salter, a Mosaid spokesman. The company
was taken private in December in a transaction led by Chicago-
based Sterling Partners.  Mosaid’s Core Wireless unit, which holds the patents
obtained from Microsoft and Nokia, filed a patent suit in
February against Apple over some of the standard-essential
patents.  Mosaid sold five patent families for $11 million in
September. Google was later identified as the buyer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Heather Smith at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  