-- Greece's Eurobank, Alpha Bank Report 1st-Quarter Loss
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-05-31T17:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/greece-s-eurobank-alpha-bank-report-1st-quarter-loss.html
EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  and Alpha
Bank SA, Greece’s second- and third-biggest lenders, posted
first-quarter net losses as non-performing losses rose.  Eurobank’s net loss was 236 million euros ($291.4 million)
after a year-earlier profit of 74 million euros, according to an
 Athens bourse  filing today. Alpha Bank said it had a net loss of
107.8 million euros after a 10.5 million-euro profit a year
earlier, according to an e-mailed statement today.  Non-performing loans at Eurobank rose to 17.2 percent at
the end of the quarter from 11.4 percent a year earlier. At
Alpha NPLS, they rose to 15.7 percent from 9.3 percent, with
Greek loans constituting the biggest portion.  “Our goal is to continue strengthening Eurobank’s position
in the context of the recapitalization effort and to actively
contribute to the recovery of the  Greek economy ,” Eurobank
Chief Executive Officer Nicolaos Nanopoulos said in the bank’s
statement.  Greece’s four biggest banks needed an 18 billion-euro
bridge recapitalization this week after reporting a combined
loss of 28 billion euros in 2011 as they wrote down their Greek
government bond holdings. The banks were shut off from ECB
refinancing operations, depending on the  Bank of Greece ’s
Emergency Liquidity Assistance program, pending the capital
injection.  Greek bank reliance on ELA, which is extended by the
Athens-based central bank, fell to 46.3 billion euros in March
from 107.2 billion euros in February, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  Eurobank’s deposits fell to 31.6 billion euros at the end
of March from 32.5 billion euros the previous quarter. Alpha
Bank’s deposits declined to 27.8 billion euros from 37.6 billion
euros a year earlier. Alpha said deposits rose in March and
April before “adverse developments on the political front led
to a resumption of deposit flight thereafter.”  Greece  is holding a second election on June 17 after a May
6 vote failed to produce a government, fanning concern that the
country may be forced out of the euro.  “The scenario of Greece’s euro exit is unlikely to
materialize,” Alpha Bank said today. “Irrespective of pre-
election rhetoric, no political party will assume responsibility
to go against the will of the voters who predominantly want
Greece to stay in the euro area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  