-- Greece’s Tsipras Denounces Austerity to Break Election Deadlock
-- B y   S t e p h a n   F a r i s
-- 2012-05-31T09:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/greece-s-tsipras-denounces-austerity-to-break-election-deadlock.html
The headquarters of the Greek
political party that could bring down the European economy lies
in a rundown neighborhood in central Athens. Not far away in one
direction, a municipal soup kitchen feeds the city’s rising
number of poor. Around another corner, a medical charity caters
to illegal immigrants and the newly uninsured. The décor inside
party headquarters is similarly modest.  Neon tubes shine down on worn blue linoleum. The walls are
streaked with age. The only room in the building with a fresh
coat of paint is the office of the party’s leader, Alexis Tsipras, the 37-year-old radical leftist who has campaigned on
renegotiating  Greece ’s debt deal, Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its June 4 edition.  “Sometimes we have television cameras in there,” said Maria
Kalyviotou, one of the chain-smoking young volunteers who man
the party’s media operations. “That’s why we painted that room.”  The party’s very name, Syriza --- the Coalition of the
Radical Left --- describes where its members see themselves on
the political spectrum: on the fringes. Just outside Tsipras’s
office hangs a photograph of a crowd celebrating the 1959 Cuban
revolution; elsewhere, the hammer and sickle is a common sight.  For two decades, Syriza and its far left predecessors had
rarely polled above 5 percent in national elections. Then on
May 6, Syriza pulled off one of the most stunning results in
modern Greek history.  Failed Government  Riding widespread opposition to what many in the country
see as an austerity program imposed by foreign governments,
Syriza took 17 percent of the vote, making it the second-largest
party, just 2 percentage points behind the conservative New
Democracy Party.  After a week of tense negotiations, Tsipras refused to join
his opponents in forming a government if that meant honoring the
loan agreement Greece signed with the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund . That sent Syriza’s popularity even
higher.  With new elections scheduled for June 17, Syriza is running
neck and neck with New Democracy. Some polls place its support
as high as 30 percent, making Tsipras a contender to be Greece’s
next prime minister. It’s as if the protesters of  Occupy Wall
Street  suddenly had a shot not only at sweeping Congress but at
taking the White House, too.  Tsipras tells voters he has no desire to bring back the
drachma. But neither does he believe that staying in the  euro 
requires the massive cuts in  government spending  to which
Greece’s leaders have agreed as a condition of receiving
international assistance over the last two years.  ‘The Memorandum’  The case that Tsipras and his colleagues make is that it’s
those austerity measures --- known in the country as “the
memorandum” --- that are the biggest threat to Greece’s
membership in the euro. By crippling the economy, Tsipras
contends that austerity has brought Greece closer to insolvency
and default, heightening the risk of a financial catastrophe
throughout the European periphery, as panicked markets bring
down country after country.  His anti-austerity message reflects public frustration
across  Europe , putting pressure on Germany, the euro system’s
biggest economy, to issue collectively backed euro bonds or risk
the unraveling of the common currency.  That a once-marginal Greek party such as Syriza could
thrust itself onto the world scene is testament to the smarts
and determination of its young leader. Having started his
political career as a teenager, Tsipras possesses not just a
deep knowledge of the Greek electorate but a populist’s knack
for channeling mass emotion.  Early Days  “He’s not necessarily a great theorist or a great
analytical thinker, or a great intellectual,” says Haris
Konstantatos, a friend and fellow activist who has known him
since university. “But he has the way of taking complex
political or scientific discourses and making a coherent
political slogan.”  On the Sunday after the newly elected Parliament officially
failed to form a government, Syriza held a meeting of its 120-
member central committee in a hotel ballroom not far from its
headquarters. Since the elections, the party’s offices have been
a buzz of policy planning, strategizing, and media interviews.  “We’re trying to transform our basic political values into
concrete numbers and proposals,” said Yiannis Bournos, a member
of the central committee.  Tax Debate  In place of slogans like “democratic  tax reform ,” party
officials are working to decide just how much to tax the very
rich. “This is more than we expected,” said Vassilis Primikiris,
another committee member. “It’s a lot of work.”  Few of the delegates wore suits or ties. The catering
consisted of homemade slices of cake and a pot of coffee brewed
on a table near the door. Tsipras arrived a little more than
half an hour late, slipping past the waiting press with a couple
of assistants. As he made his way to the front of the room, he
greeted supporters with a kiss on each cheek, leaning in with a
smile when he spoke, and contorting his thick lips in a frown of
concentration when they answered. In his speech, it was clear he
sees himself as both an insurgent and the frontrunner.  “Our opponents tried to put us on the edge of the political
system, but the voters chose to put us in the middle,” he said.
 “They try to say this election will be a referendum on the
euro. We say it will be a referendum on the memorandum” about
the debt deal.  Only rarely did Tsipras raise his voice. But when he did,
his ambitions were large. “We ask the people for a clear mandate
to overturn the policies of misery,” he said. “Our target is a
clear victory in the elections.”  Student Politician  Tsipras, who declined to be interviewed for this article,
entered politics at the age of 15, when a group of older
students heard him speaking at a school assembly and,
recognizing his talent, recruited him into the pro-Soviet
communist party.  “Greek politicians very often shout, scream, but he was
never like that,” said Panos Papadopoulos, one of his
recruiters. “He was always very calm, making his arguments,
without being an exhibitionist.”  Two years later, the students of  Athens  revolted against
unpopular education reforms and took over their schools, living
and sleeping inside them for weeks. Tsipras became one of the
movement’s leaders, and when a 10-member committee was elected
to negotiate with the minister of education, he was among them.  “When you’re 16, 17, you prefer to fight,” said Matthaios
Tsimitakis, another student who participated in the committee.
“But he had this realism that politics is, among other things,
negotiation and finding the best compromise.”  Civil Engineering  It was during this time that Tsipras met his girlfriend,
Betty Baziana, with whom he still lives. They have one child and
are expecting another in July.  Tsipras studied civil engineering at Athens Polytechnic,
then the epicenter of student politics. Those who remember him
from this time recall an able speaker, but one more interested
in tactics than ideology. He led a group of students who
mobilized to defend the university when violent protesters took
to the streets outside.  His political breakthrough came in 2006 when the former
president of Syriza, Alekos Alavanos, endorsed him for a run for
mayor of Athens. It was an effort to reach out to young Greeks,
recalls Alavanos, an attempt “to cultivate the ground around the
tree, so you can have new roots.”  ‘Upside Down’  Young, vibrant, clearly from outside the circle of power
and corruption, Tsipras represented a sharp break from the past.
Running under the slogan “Let’s turn this city upside down,” he
took 10.5 percent of the vote, an unheard-of showing for a far
left candidate. Two years later, after a tussle for power, he
replaced Alavanos as president of the party.  Critics in the media have sometimes called Syriza the party
of the young, poor and jobless. In a country where unemployment
is 22 percent and youth joblessness is more than twice that, it
isn’t a bad base to have. And yet the party’s appeal is far
broader. The results of the May 6 elections, if anything,
understate the magnitude of the protest vote.  About 19 percent of the electorate cast their ballots for
small parties that failed to breach the 3 percent minimum needed
to enter Parliament, while 35 percent didn’t vote at all.  Polls show Greeks are pulled by two seemingly contradictory
desires. Roughly two-thirds of the country opposes the bailout
conditions. Yet almost 80 percent say they want to stay in the
euro. During the run-up to the election, the dominant political
parties ---  New Democracy  and the socialist democratic party,
Pasok --- tied themselves in knots.  Euro Bloc  Unable to distance themselves from the deals they had
negotiated, they shied from defending them other than to argue
that membership in the euro depended on their enforcement.  “They were running away from their own signatures,” said
Gikas Hardouvelis, an economic adviser to the previous prime
minister.  Syriza’s position is the knots could be slipped by
insisting on fiscal transfers from Europe’s strong economies to
the weak. The model is the U.S., where funds from the federal
government flow automatically through programs like food stamps
and unemployment benefits to states hit by disaster or
recession.  “I don’t think any monetary union can work if there isn’t
some kind of subsidy to poorer regions,” said Euclid Tsakalotos,
a Syriza parliamentarian and an economist at the University of
Athens. He said the cure to Greece’s depression is what  Germany 
received after World War II when its economy was in a shambles:
a  Marshall Plan  to put it back on its feet, forgiveness for some
of its debt, and a payment package that takes into account the
state of the economy.  German Comparisons  “People say that we are responsible for the situation we
find ourselves in,” Tsakalotos said. “OK, sure. But I think that
Germany will find it hard to argue that in 1953 they were
completely blameless.”  A growing number of Greeks have embraced Syriza’s message
of defiance, including many who hardly resemble radical
leftists. On the first Friday after it became clear that the
country was headed to new elections, more than 100 mostly
middle-aged voters attended a meeting in a senior center in the
commuter neighborhood of Alimos, on the outskirts of Athens.
Home to Greece’s formerly affluent--doctors, engineers,
businessmen, and a large percentage of retirees--the area has
seen business crumble.  “We’ve lost almost 25 percent of our clientele,” said
Stavros Papagiannopoulos, an accountant. “They’ve stopped
working. Others have said, ‘We can’t pay you anymore.’ "  Vote Count  In 2009, Syriza received about 1,000 votes in the
neighborhood. On May 6, the number jumped to 4,500.  To deliver on his promises, Tsipras will have to navigate
the shoals of European diplomacy, learn to govern at home, avoid
corruption, and keep the scattered strains of his coalition in
check. Even those sympathetic to him question Syriza’s ability
to manage that.  “They used to be small,” said Nikos Xydakis, editor-in-
chief of Kathimerini, the country’s largest daily. “And their
mission is maybe too big for them.”  Gerassimos Georgatos, head of European policy for the
Democratic Left, a rival party that split from Syriza in 2010,
said that Tsipras and those around him have historically been
more interested in ideological purity than the compromises
required for governing.  “Deeply, they prefer to be in the opposition,” he said.
“This is what they know how to do.”  Hollande’s Victory  There’s no question that Tsipras has been lucky in terms of
timing. Had his ascendency taken place even a month earlier,
 Francois Hollande  would not yet have been elected president of
 France  on a platform of renegotiating Europe’s fiscal compact,
and the conventional wisdom on the solution to the continent’s
crisis would not yet have swung from austerity toward growth.  Yet Tsipras’s demand that other EU countries --- namely
Germany --- renegotiate the bailout deal on Athens’s terms
reflects a seeming indifference to the very real failures in
Greece’s economy. While he and his supporters do discuss the
public sector’s inefficiency, they are just as eager to talk
about expanding it.  Listen to Syriza’s experts, and one comes away thinking
that Greece’s biggest problem is a lack of investment. They rail
against bureaucracy and corruption but have few concrete
proposals on how to tackle them.  Changing Debate  It’s too early to know how much of Tsipras’s stance on the
debt deal is the smart positioning of a negotiator, and how much
reflects deep-rooted ideology. Domestically, Tsipras has
redefined the debate about austerity: Instead of Greeks having
to choose between leaving the EU or buckling to its demands, the
members of the monetary union should discuss how to divide the
necessary sacrifices between the impoverished peripheral
countries and Europe’s larger economies.  If that argument helps catapult Tsipras to power in the
June 17 election, success afterward will require him to win over
his partners abroad. Will he be able or even want to deliver the
compromises that a deal with countries such as Finland and
Germany would likely demand? Tsipras has never given any
indication that he has a Plan B.  On May 24, Tsipras’s first campaign appearance in the new
electoral season, his strengths and weaknesses were on full
display. He had just returned from a trip to Paris and Berlin,
during which he had been told that the last time the far left
had gotten so much attention in France was when  Fidel Castro 
came to visit.  Acropolis Speech  He appeared just before sundown at a small plaza in front
of an Orthodox church west of the Acropolis. Dressed in jeans
and a striped blue-and-white shirt, he pushed through the crowd
to a table with a microphone.  “The election isn’t between Syriza and the other parties,”
he said. “It’s between hope and fear. It’s between the powers of
yesterday that ruined Greece and our power that wants to make a
step towards a better future. It’s between the power of
corruption and the power of the poor.”  When Tsipras finished speaking, he took questions. One
woman sought his views about renewable energy. A student asked
what he would do to help the youth. A man inquired how he would
clean up the public sector. His answers weren’t specific. He
used them to attack his opponents, to promise a future in which
nobody went hungry, and to repeat his assertion that the real
problem with the Greek economy lay outside its borders.  He had spent much of the previous week framing his
criticisms of the debt deal as a hand extended toward the rest
of the union. As the sun set in the plaza, he showed that the
hand could also be a fist.  “We ask you to give power to Syriza in order to be powerful
as Greece,” he said. And then, a few sentences later: “We’re
going to have the power to say, if you want to send us to the
bottom, we will take you to the bottom too.”  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Romesh Ratnesar at   rratnesar@bloomberg.net ;
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  