-- Gross Says Low Quality of Debt Threatens Monetary System
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-31T20:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/gross-says-quality-of-sovereign-debt-threatens-monetary-system.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said the
lower quality of sovereign debt represents a threat to the
global monetary system.  Investors should favor debt of nations such as the U.S.,
 Mexico  and  Brazil , and emphasize intermediate maturities over
the next few years, Gross said in his monthly investment outlook
posted on the Newport Beach, California-based company’s  website 
today. Equity investors should seek companies that produce
stable  cash flow  and that are exposed to high growth markets.  Low cost funding available in “previously sacrosanct” AAA
rated nations with soaring debt to gross domestic product ratios
is the result of central banks’ efforts to flood financial
systems with cash since the sub-prime mortgage market collapse
trigged a global crisis in 2008, Gross wrote.  “The global monetary system which has evolved and morphed
over the past century but always in the direction of easier,
cheaper and more abundant credit, may have reached a point at
which it can no longer operate efficiently and equitably to
promote growth,” Gross said. “Policy responses by fiscal and
monetary authorities have managed to prevent substantial
haircutting of the $200 trillion or so of financial assets that
compromise our global monetary system, yet in the process have
increased the risk and lowered the return of sovereign
securities which represent its core.”  Monetary Easing  The  Federal Reserve  purchased $2.3 trillion of  debt  in two
rounds of quantitative easing that have become known as QE1 and
QE2 as part of its efforts to support the world’s biggest
economy. Policy makers in January said they plan to keep their
benchmark  interest rate  near zero until at least the end of
2014. The central banks is schedule to end in June a maturity
extension program, known as Operation Twist, where it is
swapping $400 billion of its short-term debt with long-term
debt.  Pimco anticipates the Fed will embark on another round of
easing with U.S. growth slow and  Europe  gripped by continued
sovereign debt and banking system turmoil.  The U.S. remains the ‘liquidity haven and a quality haven
for the rest of the world,” Gross said in an interview today on
Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with  Trish Regan . “This
is one giant deleveraging moment that will likely continue for a
number of years.”  Greek Exit  The  European Central Bank ’s unprecedented provision of 1.02
trillion ($1.26 trillion) euros in three-year cash in December
and February helped calm financial markets in the first quarter
by removing concern that banks unwilling to lend to one another
would run out of cash. The rebound was short-lived as doubts
about the health of Spain’s banks and questions over  Greece ’s
future sent the euro to almost two-year lows.  Greece is likely to exit the 17-nation currency union
because it “simply has too much debt,” Gross reiterated during
the television interview. He didn’t provide a specific time
frame.  Treasury 10-year yields fell to a record low for a second
day on concern the  European debt crisis  is widening and as data
showed the U.S. economic expansion slowed during the first
quarter. The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell as much as nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 1.53 percent.  Yields on the benchmark security may end the year around
1.75 percent, Gross said on Bloomberg Television.  “There are a number of safe havens out there, and money is
flocking to them,” Gross said in the interview. Investors are
regarding U.S. government securities as “mattress money that’s
safe, as opposed to a risk.”  The $259 billion Total Return Fund run by Gross beat 99
percent of its competitors this year with a 5.07 percent return.
Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE , managed
$1.35 trillion of assets as of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  