-- Guy Rutherfurd, Lawyer With Ties to FDR, Dies at 96
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-06-01T13:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/guy-rutherfurd-lawyer-with-ties-to-fdr-stuyvesants-dies-at-96.html
Guy G. Rutherfurd, former  managing
partner  of one of  New York  City’s oldest law firms whose lineage
included a colonial governor of New York, a U.S. vice president
and the mistress of President  Franklin Delano Roosevelt , has
died. He was 96.  He died on May 27 at his home in Manhattan after suffering
from respiratory ailments, according to his son, Alec
Rutherfurd.  Rutherfurd worked more than 50 years at  Morris & McVeigh
LLP , a Manhattan-based firm founded in 1862 to represent some of
New York’s founding families, from which he descended. Among
them were the Morris family, owner of large parts of Morrisania
(today’s South Bronx), and the Stuyvesants, whose holdings
included what is now the 80-acre Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper
Village, Manhattan’s biggest apartment complex.  Rutherfurd, who counted Peter Stuyvesant, the last Dutch
governor of what became New York, and John Winthrop, the first
governor of  Massachusetts , among his ancestors, wasn’t one to
brag about his family’s history and connections, said  Macdonald
Budd , who succeeded Rutherfurd as managing partner at Morris &
McVeigh in the mid-1990s.  “He was very diffident about it,” Budd said yesterday in
an interview. “He didn’t use his lineage as a device to
increase his importance, if you want to put it that way. He was
very reserved, very private, very much of a gentleman.”  Like the firm, Rutherfurd specialized in trusts and
estates. His work included establishing the New York City-based
 Achelis and Bodman Foundations , of which he was a former
chairman. He also played a key role in deciding to relocate the
firm in the 1960s from 60 Wall St. to midtown  Manhattan .  ‘Some Foresight’  “At a time when most firms like us thought no self-
respecting lawyer would practice north of Fulton Street, he
suggested to us that we consider moving uptown,” Budd said.
“Most of the legal profession is located there now, so I’d say
he had some foresight on that.” The firm moved to 300 Park
Ave., then to 450 Park Ave., and today is at 767 Third Ave.  Rutherfurd’s mother, the former Alice Morton, who died when
he was 4, was a daughter of Levi P. Morton, who served from 1889
to 1893 as vice president under Benjamin Harrison and from 1895
to 1897 as governor of New York. (After the vice presidency,
 Levi Morton  returned to banking and, in 1909, merged his Morton
Trust Co. into Morgan Guaranty Trust Co., now  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) )  Rutherfurd’s father, Winthrop, remarried in 1920, and the
former Lucy Page Mercer became Rutherfurd’s stepmother. She
would become a historical figure herself, through her
association with Eleanor Roosevelt and subsequent romantic
affair with Franklin Roosevelt.  Preserved Marriage  Eleanor Roosevelt discovered the affair in 1918 when she
found incriminating letters between Mercer, whom she had hired
in 1913 as her 22-year-old social secretary, and her husband,
who was then assistant U.S. Navy secretary. To save their
marriage, Franklin Roosevelt promised to break off the affair
with the woman nine years his junior. Whether he did so is a
question debated by historians.  In “Franklin & Lucy: President Roosevelt, Mrs. Rutherfurd
and the Other Remarkable Women in His Life,” his 2008  book ,
Joseph E. Persico wrote that the affair that supposedly ended in
1918 may have continued until his death in 1945.  According to presidential records, Lucy Mercer Rutherfurd
 accompanied Roosevelt  on his final trip to the Catoctin
Mountains retreat now known as Camp David on July 9, 1944.
(Winthrop, her husband, died that year.) She also was with
Roosevelt when he died of a cerebral hemorrhage in Warm Springs,
 Georgia , on April 12, 1945. She died in 1948.  Princeton Graduate  In an interview yesterday, Alec Rutherfurd said he never
met his father’s stepmother, whose death predated his birth.
“She was my father’s mother, effectively,” he said. “Everyone
in the family was very fond of her.”  Guy Gerard Rutherfurd was born in New York City on Sept.
11, 1915, one of seven children of Winthrop and Alice
Rutherfurd.  He graduated in 1938 from  Princeton University  and in 1942
from the  University of Virginia   School of Law , where he was a
member of the law review and, according to Persico’s book, a
shooting partner of  Franklin Roosevelt  Jr.  Also according to Persico, Rutherfurd received a commission
in the U.S. Navy, the branch he preferred, thanks in part to his
stepmother’s request for presidential intervention. Persico
quotes a letter from Guy Rutherfurd to the president in the
summer of 1942: “Dear Mr. President, At your suggestion I
stayed in Charlottesville long enough to get my law degree and
then get through the New York Bar exams. I was glad to see
Franklin … also passed the exams.”  Nuremberg Trial  As a naval officer during World War II, Rutherfurd worked
as a legal liaison between the Navy and the British Isles Courts
and led the postwar review of 85 tons of classified German naval
records for use as evidence in the Nuremberg trial of Karl
Donitz, according to a death notice yesterday in the New York
Times. Donitz, the German naval commander, was convicted and
sentenced to 10 years in prison.  With the former Georgette Whelan, whom he married in 1938,
Rutherfurd had four children, three of whom survive him. In
addition to son Alec, portfolio manager at Drake Asset
Management LLC in Glen Head, New York, they are Guy Jr., a
partner and portfolio manager at F&V Capital Management LLC in
 New York City , and  Leith Rutherfurd Talamo , an art restorer,
also in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  