-- Tiananmen Protesters Seek Mainland Support Amid Turmoil
-- B y   M a r c o   L u i   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-06-01T06:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/tiananmen-protesters-seek-mainland-support-amid-party-s-turmoil.html
Organizers of  Hong Kong  protests over
the 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown appealed to mainland Chinese
to join the event, as a scandal in the Communist Party exposes
rifts before  China ’s once-a-decade leadership handover.  Organizers are calling for 150,000 to attend the June 4
vigil, Lee Cheuk-yan, chairman of the Alliance in Support of
Patriotic Democratic Movements in China, said by phone. This
year’s anniversary is drawing more scrutiny after incidents
including the suspension of Politburo member Bo Xilai, legal
activist  Chen Guangcheng ’s flight to the U.S. and the suicide
last month of a man whose son was killed at Tiananmen Square.  China doesn’t allow mainland events to commemorate the
crackdown, in which hundreds of protesters were killed by
government troops, and is trying to ensure a smooth leadership
transition at the 18th Communist Party Congress later this year.
The party wants to maintain stability after Bo was ousted amid
murder allegations surrounding his wife, analyst Jean-Pierre Cabestan said.  “There is a crisis in the legitimacy of China now because
of the  Bo Xilai  incident,” Cabestan, head of the department of
government and international studies at Hong Kong Baptist
University, said in a phone interview. “They are nervous as
they head toward the 18th Party Congress.”  Economy Slowing  After  China’s economy  grew at the slowest pace in almost
three years last quarter, the government’s anxiety may extend
beyond the Bo scandal. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in a March speech
that the regime could come to an end if it doesn’t address
corruption.  Days before Wen spoke, Bo himself warned that China’s Gini
coefficient, an index of the  income gap , had exceeded the 0.4
mark that is used as a predictor by analysts for social
disturbances.  Bo, once considered a candidate for the Politburo’s all-
powerful Standing Committee, was stripped of his post as party
secretary of the municipality of Chongqing later in March. A
month after that, following accusations that his wife was
involved in the murder of a British businessman, Bo was
suspended from the Politburo.  “The party has control over millions of police, the secret
police, the web police, the informers, so in a material sense
its grip is very solid,” said Minxin Pei, a professor of
politics and government at Claremont, California-based  Claremont
McKenna College . “In a psychological sense, the party’s grip is
very tenuous. People say, ‘Wow, its own leaders are both corrupt
and insecure, they have no confidence in the long-term survival
of the regime itself.’”  Protest March  In the crackdown 23 years ago, Chinese troops  fired on
demonstrators  who had been massing in the square in Beijing for
weeks. The U.S. Embassy in Beijing estimated a death toll
exceeding 1,000, and in Hong Kong, which would return to China
in 1997, about 1 million people marched in protest.  The Dui Hua Foundation, which advocates for prisoners in
China, estimates that the government is still holding less than
a dozen of the thousands of people detained as part of the
crackdown, according to  a statement  released yesterday.  The group said it had not received a response from the
government about what it calls June Fourth prisoners since
September 2009. Its statement listed the names of seven people
it believes are still being held.  New Museum  Organizers of this year’s Hong Kong protests say that a new
museum honoring the victims attracted about 6,000 visitors in
the month since it opened, a quarter of them from China, Lee
said. He said he hopes more mainland Chinese will attend and
they are becoming more aware of human rights issues.  About 77,000 people joined last year’s vigil in Hong Kong,
according to police estimates, while thousands more rallied on
the July 1 anniversary of the city’s return to Chinese
sovereignty in 1997. Public discontent earlier this year was
credited with derailing a leadership bid by the city’s former
top civil servant, while demonstrations by hundreds of thousands
of people in 2003 and 2004 were credited with leading to the
eventual resignation of Tung Chee-hwa as chief executive.  Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  apologized today for
“disappointing” the public, after accepting private jet and
yacht trips offered by tycoon friends. He said the city
government will impose rules to require officials to disclose
conflicts of interest.  ‘Avoidable Event’  In a new book released today, Chen Xitong, mayor of Beijing
during the Tiananmen crackdown, called it “an avoidable event,
a tragedy that could have been avoided but wasn’t avoided,”
according to a copy provided by the publisher. Chen, who was
promoted to Beijing party secretary and made a Politburo member
after the crackdown, was sentenced to 16 years in jail in 1998
on corruption charges.  Advocates for families of the Tiananmen victims have
demanded the government give a formal accounting of what
happened to all those who died. On May 28, a support group
called the  Tiananmen Mothers  said that Ya Weilin, the 73-year-
old father of one victim, hanged himself last week to protest
the government’s refusal to explain his son’s death.  China has already reached a “clear conclusion” on the
events at  Tiananmen Square , Foreign Ministry spokesman  Liu
Weimin  told a regular briefing when asked about Ya’s case,
without elaborating. In the past, China has said the crackdown
was necessary to maintain stability.  In a statement released yesterday, the Tiananmen Mothers
group said that while China has seen rapid economic growth in
the 10 years since President  Hu Jintao  and Wen came to power,
the country’s “ossified bureaucrats” have missed the chance
for a peaceful political transition.  “Tiananmen is now really shorthand for democratic
transition,” Pei said. “It will be impossible for any future
leaders to change the official verdict on Tiananmen without at
the same time starting China’s own political liberalization. The
stakes are very high in how the Chinese government deals with
Tiananmen Square.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  