-- Iberdrola Urges Poland to Keep Support for Wind Power
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-05-31T15:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/iberdrola-urges-poland-to-keep-wind-support-as-nation-drafts-law.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE) , an owner of wind parks
from  Europe  to the U.S., urged  Poland  not to cut financial
support for the technology as the central European nation
devises a new renewable-energy law.  Reducing incentives for onshore wind would have a “very
negative effect on investors’ trust,” Lech Kuleszynski, head of
 Iberdrola Renewables Polska Sp Zoo , said in an e-mail. The
company has 84 megawatts of wind in Poland and plans to start
work on a further 38 megawatts this year if the new law allows.  Poland, which gets about 90 percent of its power from coal,
published a draft renewables bill in December aimed at spurring
alternative energy while saving the government as much as 1
billion zloty ($283 million) a year. The plans, with amendments
proposed in April and May, may curb incentives for new onshore
wind farms and boost subsidies for more costly offshore wind.  A reduction in support for new onshore projects may have a
“dramatic impact” on investment decisions, Kuleszynski said.  December’s draft law signaled cuts to onshore wind support
to 0.75 of a “green certificate” for every megawatt-hour from
existing and new projects, down from one previously. Following
investor complaints that the plan would erode project finances,
the government  published  a new draft proposal on May 29, keeping
support at one certificate for current projects, while
suggesting it may limit aid to 15 years after commissioning.  Investor Concern  Such a restriction doesn’t offer investors enough stability
to make future commitments, Kuleszynski said. The draft proposes
a cut to 0.9 of a certificate in 2013 for new wind farms of 500
kilowatts or more, dropping to 0.825 of a certificate in 2017.
The certificate system obliges electricity suppliers to get a
portion of the power they sell from clean sources.  Such curbs may help Poland shore up funds to boost economic
growth, which it forecasts will slow to 2.5 percent this year
from 4.3 percent last year.  While support for new onshore wind farms will almost
certainly decrease, banks may regain their appetite to finance
projects once the regulatory uncertainty ends, said Anna
Czajkowska, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The government said in April it will continue to oblige
utilities to get a share of their energy from clean sources
after 2017. That may encourage future investments because it
provides stable demand, Kuleszynski said.  A spokeswoman at the Ministry of Economy said the
government is still revising the draft law and couldn’t give a
publication date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  