-- Malone’s Push for Sirius Control Sets Up Karmazin Clash
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-06-01T20:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/liberty-tells-u-s-it-wants-to-take-control-of-sirius-xm-radio.html
Billionaire  John Malone ’s push to
take over  Sirius (SIRI)  XM Radio Inc. is setting up a potential clash
with Sirius Chief Executive Officer Mel Karmazin, who stands to
lose power under the deal.  Malone’s  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  plans to assert control of the
largest U.S. satellite radio provider after receiving approval
from the Federal Communications Commission, the Englewood,
Colorado-based company said yesterday in a filing. The move
would put Karmazin, who helped turn around Sirius after years of
losses, under the command of Malone and Liberty CEO Greg Maffei.  “I could see a situation where there could be conflicting
personalities,” Brett Harriss, an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in
Rye, New York, said in an interview. “These are two high-
powered guys in Mel and John.”  Maffei said today on CNBC that there was no plan to remove
Karmazin as the head of Sirius.  “We like Mel,” he said. “We want him to be CEO.”  Patrick Reilly , a Sirius spokesman, declined to comment.
Courtnee Ulrich, a Liberty spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a
telephone call and e-mail.  Liberty, the holder of interests in businesses ranging from
cable programmer Starz LLC to the Atlanta Braves baseball team,
has asked the FCC to reconsider the agency’s May 4 dismissal of
its application for permission to take control of Sirius.  Spinoff Plan?  Liberty’s move has fueled speculation that Malone, 71,
wants to spin off his stake in New York-based Sirius. Liberty
will probably execute a so-called Reverse Morris Trust, which
involves splitting off its Sirius stake as a separate entity and
giving its stockholders the option to hold or sell their Sirius
shares, according to  James Ratcliffe , an analyst at Barclays
Capital Inc. in New York.  To execute the spinoff, Liberty must have Sirius’s board
approval. Sirius is in talks with Liberty about the company’s
ownership interest, according to a separate  filing  by Sirius. It
said Sirius doesn’t expect to disclose developments in the
discussions.  The New York Post  reported today  that Maffei may want to
run the satellite broadcaster directly, leading Karmazin to
leave after the Sirius CEO’s contract expires on Dec. 31. Maffei
is tired of being a portfolio manager for a broad swath of
companies, the Post reported, citing a person familiar with the
matter.  Maffei denied that report today on CNBC. “The  New York 
Post story is wrong,” he said.  Stock Drop  Sirius shares  declined 2.7 percent to $1.84 at the close in
New York. The stock has slid 19 percent since Liberty filed its
application with the FCC on March 20. Liberty shares, up 5.5
percent this year, fell 2.9 percent to $82.34.  Liberty would also have the right to change management at
the company if it gains control of the board. Still, Malone may
not want to remove Karmazin, who has engineered a comeback at
Sirius, said Harriss, who has a hold rating on Sirius shares.
The company was profitable in 2010 and 2011 following more than
a decade of annual losses, according to  data compiled  by
Bloomberg.  Karmazin, 68, served as Sirius Satellite Radio’s CEO before
its 2008 merger with XM Satellite Radio, when he took control of
the combined company. He was  previously  president and chief
operating officer at  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  Karmazin clashed with Viacom
Chairman  Sumner Redstone  because he couldn’t get the top job at
the media giant. Before that, he ran CBS Corp. until 2000.  ‘Good Job’  “All the comments that Liberty has made toward Mel have
been positive, and Mel’s done a good job increasing the
company’s profitability,” Harriss said.  The Sirius-XM merger four years ago was an all-stock deal
valued at $2.76 billion. The companies, which had more than 18.5
million subscribers at the time, overcame opposition from
traditional radio broadcasters and some consumer groups that
said a combination would create a harmful monopoly.  Even after the deal, the company struggled with high
programming costs and slowing subscriber growth. Malone,
Liberty’s chairman, saved Sirius from bankruptcy in 2009 with a
$530 million loan. Liberty boosted its stake in Sirius to 46.2
percent from 40 percent last month.  Liberty’s interest in a Reverse Morris Trust is to save on
capital gains taxes, Harriss said. Distributing Sirius shares to
 Liberty stockholders  through a spinoff instead of selling them
on the open market lets the company avoid paying taxes on the
sale, he said.  Defective Application  The FCC said on May 4 that Liberty’s application was
defective because the company couldn’t get passwords and
signatures from Sirius. Liberty’s application didn’t show it
intends to take control, the FCC said.  “The FCC’s recent rejection of the application was
procedural, and I doubt it reflects anything about the substance
of Liberty’s argument,”  Paul Gallant , a Washington-based
analyst with Guggenheim Partners, said in an interview.  Liberty responded to the agency’s arguments in a recent
filing. The company “has determined that it should assert
control of Sirius and will take action to do so,” Liberty said.  It said the FCC’s May 4 decision improperly delegates to
Sirius the authority to determine whether Liberty gains control.  The company needs FCC approval to complete a takeover
because Sirius holds airwave licenses issued by the agency,
Liberty said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  