-- Ican’s Singhvi Says India’s Leadership Vacuum Is Hurting Growth
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2012-05-31T08:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/ican-s-singhvi-says-india-s-leadership-vacuum-is-hurting-growth.html
Anil Singhvi, chairman at Ican
Investment Advisors Pvt. in Mumbai, comments on India’s slowing
growth rate.  Asia ’s third-largest economy expanded at the
weakest pace in at least eight years last quarter.  Gross domestic product rose at a lower-than-expected 5.3
percent in the three months ended March from a year earlier,
compared with 6.1 percent in the previous quarter, the  Central
Statistical Office  said in a statement in New Delhi today.
Singhvi spoke in a telephone interview.  On the fall in growth and leadership vacuum:  “We are close to a melt down. There is policy paralysis in
the government. There is no coordination between the  Reserve
Bank of India  and the  finance ministry . The central bank has
been saying that it cannot tackle inflation through it’s
policies alone.  ‘‘There is a leadership vacuum and unless day-to-day action
is taken, we will reach a level of despondency. I have been
saying that financial year 2012-13 will make 2011-12 look
good.’’  On the Greek crisis and its impact on  India :  ‘‘The Indian government is in denial mode. The fall in
India’s GDP growth has little to do with the situation in
 Greece . When there’s a fire in our own house, there’s no point
in blaming neighbors.  ‘‘Our prime minister has said that we are in a better
situation than we were in 1991. We were bankrupt at the time.’’  On India’s rating:  ‘‘If our current account deficit continues at current
levels and the lack of reforms continues, it doesn’t take a
genius to see we could see a cut in our ratings.  ‘‘The  consumption sector  is the only one doing better than
others. But if inflation continues, this story too will die
down.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in  New Delhi  at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  