-- Microsoft Recruits Designers in Race for Windows Apps
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-05-31T22:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/microsoft-recruits-designers-in-race-for-windows-apps.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is so eager to have a
panoply of applications for the next version of its  Windows
operating system  that it has lined up design firms, recruited
interns and sent engineers on an around-the-world road show to
help developers get them built.  Unlike  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which run the world’s
largest app stores, Microsoft doesn’t have the luxury of waiting
for programmers to come knocking when they want to create
downloadable games, productivity tools or online magazines for
its computer software.  As Microsoft struggles to keep up with a technology
landscape that is moving beyond personal computers into a future
defined by mobile devices, the company is under pressure to gain
a toehold in tablets. Demand for these handheld machines is
driven by apps, which Gartner Inc. predicts will generate $58
billion in sales in 2014.  “It’s going to be very important to have a lot of apps,”
said Bill Predmore, president at  Pop , a Seattle-based company
that designs and develops apps, including a Windows 8 app for
 Major League Soccer . “You’re competing with the iPad. You have
to have some compelling alternative to that.”  Microsoft, which is working on a revamped version of its
flagship software -- Windows 8 -- today released an almost-
complete iteration called a Release Preview. The company also
said for the first time that it plans to have machines with the
operating system on store shelves by year-end holidays.  From Scratch  The machines that are most comparable to the iPad -- which
boasts more than 200,000 apps -- won’t be able to run older
Windows apps, forcing Microsoft to start from scratch. The
company is racing to fill the gap because consumers won’t clamor
for computers that lack an array of downloadable tools.  Windows 8 is the first Microsoft operating system for
computers that use chips based on  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  technology.
These chips are widely used in mobile devices, including the
iPad. Trouble is, Microsoft’s ARM-based devices will run only
apps designed specifically for Windows 8 -- and none of the
millions of programs already available for Intel-based machines.  Hence the app-building drive. For much of February, app
developers could come to Building 20 at Microsoft’s Redmond,
Washington campus and turn their app over to a Windows engineer
who tries it out and provides feedback. Now Microsoft has taken
that program on the road, visiting 87 cities, including New
York, Paris and Guangzhou,  China .  Developers who are earlier in the process -- those with an
idea yet no app -- can attend a different program called an App
Acceleration Lab to get advice on shaping their product.  Moonlighting Staff  Another Microsoft-led effort has been in place since
September. The company has trained more than 80 design firms to
aid or build apps for developers who aren’t familiar with
Windows’ new design or design in general, said Catherine Brooker, a spokeswoman for Microsoft.  As with Windows Phone, Microsoft encouraged its own
employees to write apps by waiving so-called moonlighting
restrictions on workers, which keep staff from writing apps on
their own time. Unlike with Windows Phone, Microsoft is not
paying app developers to build for Windows 8.  The company is also running a 12-week paid internship
program called the Foundry at its  New England Research and
Development Center , NERD for short. There, 22 college students
in the program will build Windows 8 apps while getting training,
product reviews and mentorship from Microsoft.  With traditional PCs, it wasn’t hard to convince developers
to build programs for Windows, the dominant operating system.  Convincing Skeptics  Microsoft’s tablet challenge is steeper. It must win over
app firms and developers that grew up building programs for
smartphones and tablets, where Microsoft has little and no
share, respectively.  Microsoft’s pitch: Unlike the old apps that don’t work with
some Windows 8 devices, the new ones will be available not only
to buyers of tablets, but also to the more than 300 million
buyers of Windows PCs. That won over SigFig, a maker of a
program that lets users track investments.  Some programmers remain unconvinced of the need to make
games, magazines or other online tools for a software maker more
than two years late to the tablet market.  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the largest social network, has no plans to
make a Windows 8 app even though it makes apps for the iOS and
Android, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Flipboard, whose CEO is ex-Microsoft executive Mike McCue,
isn’t planning a Windows 8 version, said Marci McCue, head of
marketing at the  Palo Alto , California-based company.
Flipboard’s app, which aggregates a user’s social-networking
feeds, has built apps for the iPad and tablets that run Android.  Waiting Game  Other big app makers, including  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ,  PopCap Games ,
Twitter Inc.,  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , declined
to comment on their plans for Windows 8.  Companies such as SigFig or graphic-design software maker
Corel Corp., make apps that work well on both tablets and PCs.
For them, writing for Windows 8 is a no-brainer.  Other developers of tablet-focused applications will wait
to see whether enough consumers purchase Windows tablets, said
Laurent Bugnion, a senior director for European operations at
 IdentityMine , one of the agencies in Microsoft’s program that is
working on Windows 8 apps for clients that declined to name.  “The Apple fanatics, who anyway won’t touch a PC with
chopsticks, they won’t be interested,” he said. “But the
pragmatic people will probably wait for a while and suddenly
when we see a few good devices come out they will start
developing.”  Digital Chocolate  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  is another one of the companies working on
apps for Windows 8, people with knowledge of the matter said.
Some of the initial apps will be in the Windows store with the
advent of the Release Preview.  Mobile games maker Digital Chocolate Inc. also plans to
have games available for Windows 8 at launch, said Chief
Executive Officer Trip Hawkins, while declining to specify
further. Corel is working on several.  Before Pop started building its app for Major League
Soccer, the team and employees of the professional soccer
federation spent a day at Microsoft’s campus getting guidance
from the company, said Kaylynn Kelley, who oversees Pop’s work
with Microsoft. Pop had an engineer and a designer assigned to
handle questions, which included nighttime calls that went on
for two hours. The free app, which includes news, videos and
standings, will probably be available in the next few days.  Microsoft’s ‘Handholding’  SigFig, whose app is already in the Windows Marketplace,
received “concierge-like service” from Microsoft, said Patrick Cushing, the company’s product manager for mobile. For example,
Microsoft looked over SigFig’s code and showed ways to make use
of Windows 8 features they hadn’t thought of using.  Corel, which made its first program for Windows in 1984,
plans to have an app in the store in the next few days for
finding graphics and a Windows 8 Metro version of WinZip is
slated for availability when Windows 8 is released. Corel too
benefited from a lot of “handholding” from Microsoft, said
Patrick Nichols, a unit president at Corel.  Extra help isn’t just for big companies. Microsoft is also
assisting individual developers, such as 21-year-old music
student Grant Kot, who graduated from the Julliard School last
week. Kot had written a touch-controlled musical instrument
simulation called Grantophone for Windows Phone and Microsoft
wanted it for Windows 8. So a Microsoft developer who tries to
promote Windows met Kot in  New York . He hooked him up with a
designer to advise him and got him a prototype Windows 8 tablet.  “I was pretty surprised with the amount of attention I
got,” said Kot, who plays cello. “They’re putting in a lot of
effort.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  