-- Hindalco, Reliance Power Rise After Panel Suggests Mine Approval
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-05-31T05:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/hindalco-reliance-power-rise-after-panel-suggests-mine-approval.html
Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL)  and  Reliance
Power Ltd. (RPWR)  rose in Mumbai trading after a panel of ministers
recommended approval of their coal mines to India’s cabinet.  Reliance Power  rose  2 percent, the most in a week, to 92.35
rupees at 10:28 a.m. local time. Hindalco gained 3.6 percent to
118.55 rupees, the largest jump in almost two months.  Essar
Energy Plc. (ESSR) , which is a partner with Hindalco in one of the
mines, surged 22 percent yesterday in London. The cabinet will
take a final decision on the matter, coal secretary Alok Perti
told reporters yesterday in New Delhi.  The panel’s recommendation is a step toward ensuring coal
supplies for  power plants  being built by the companies as Asia’s
second-fastest growing major  economy  seeks to cut blackouts. A
committee appointed by the environment ministry earlier
recommended conditional approval for the blocks, which are
located in forest areas.  “The group of ministers’ decision is an indication that
the government is finally getting its act together on coal,”
said  Niraj Shah , an analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd.
in Mumbai. “The clearances will certainly expedite
commissioning of the power and aluminum projects.”  The Chhatrasal block is one of three that will supply coal
for a 3,960-megawatt project at Sasan being built by Reliance
Power, controlled by billionaire Anil Ambani. The Mahan block,
allotted to Essar Energy and Hindalco, will be the source of
fuel for generation plants with a combined capacity of 1,950
megawatts. Hindalco will use the electricity generated for its
planned 359,000 tons a year aluminum smelter.  Environmental restrictions in India have led to delays in
projects, leading to shortages of commodities, including coal
and iron ore. The country’s annual coal output may rise 28
percent to 715 million tons in the next five years, lagging
behind a 41 percent increase in demand to 981 million tons,
according to Planning Commission estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  