-- India Growth Slows to Nine-Year Low as Rupee Drops to Record
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-05-31T12:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/india-s-economy-expands-5-3-missing-estimates-on-europe-slump.html
India’s economic growth weakened to a
nine-year low last quarter, hurt by an investment slowdown that
has undermined the rupee and jeopardized Prime Minister  Manmohan
Singh ’s development agenda. Bonds climbed and stocks fell.  Gross domestic product  rose 5.3 percent in the three months
ended March from a year earlier, compared with 6.1 percent in
the previous quarter, the  Central Statistical Office  said in a
statement in New Delhi today. The median of 31 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 6.1 percent gain. GDP climbed
6.5 percent in the year to March, the office said.  Singh faces a struggle to bolster expansion as Europe’s
debt crisis dims the global outlook and elevated inflation and a
record trade deficit limit room for  interest-rate cuts  to boost
spending at home. Discord in the ruling coalition and claims of
graft have impeded his push to open up the economy, damping
investment and sending the rupee to its lowest level today.  “We can’t rule out the possibility of  India  facing a
deeper slowdown in the absence of quicker economic reforms, when
the central bank has limited room to cut rates,” said Samiran Chakraborty, head of regional research at Standard Chartered Plc
in Mumbai. “India needs to send a clear message to investors
that the policy bias will be towards boosting growth.”  Ten-year  government bonds  rallied the most in three weeks,
with the yield on the 8.79 percent note due November 2021
dropping 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 8.38
percent. The rupee touched an unprecedented low of 56.515 per
dollar before strengthening to close 0.2 percent higher at 56.11.
It has slumped 20 percent in the past year. The  BSE India
Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of stocks fell 0.6 percent.  Government’s Target  The rise in full-year GDP compares with the 6.7 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey and 8.4 percent in 2010-
2011. India’s goal is 9 percent annual expansion in a nation
where about two-thirds of the population still lives on less
than $2 a day, according to World Bank data.  Policy gridlock has contributed to slower investment, which
Morgan Staley estimates fell to 34.4 percent of GDP last fiscal
year from 38.1 percent in 2007-2008.  Manufacturing fell 0.3 percent in the three months through
March from a year earlier, compared with a 0.6 percent gain in
the previous quarter, today’s report showed. Farm output grew
1.7 percent, while construction climbed 4.8 percent.  Growth has also slowed in emerging nations from  China  to
 Brazil  because of  Europe ’s crisis, which has damped demand for
exports and reduced appetite for developing-nation assets.  Rupee Slide  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has pledged
to take steps as needed to curb swings in the nation’s currency.  Its weakness threatens to stoke inflation by raising import
costs. The pace of price increases climbed to 7.23 percent in
April, the fastest among the largest emerging economies.  The trade deficit in  Asia ’s third-largest economy widened
to a record $184.9 billion in 2011-2012, fanning concern about
whether India can attract enough foreign capital to fund the
excess of imports.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  is also trying to narrow
the  budget deficit  to 5.1 percent of GDP in the year that began
April 1, from 5.9 percent, in part by limiting subsidies.  Some spending plans for the current fiscal year have been
reduced by 10 percent as part of austerity measures, the
government said separately today.  The GDP data are “disappointing,” Mukherjee said in a
statement in  New Delhi , adding the administration will take “all
necessary steps” to address fiscal and trade imbalances.  Inflation Risks  The central bank has signaled  government spending , the
rupee’s drop and energy costs may curb scope for more rate cuts.  It lowered the benchmark rate to 8 percent from 8.5 percent
on April 17, the first cut since 2009, after increasing it by a
record 3.75 percentage points from mid-March 2010 to October
last year to try and contain  inflation .  Standard & Poor’s cut India’s credit outlook to negative
from stable last month, imperiling its investment grade status
and saying the political environment is “unfavorable.”  The government’s setbacks include the suspension in
December of plans to allow foreign companies to open
supermarkets in India after a coalition partner objected.  The prime minister defended India’s record earlier this
month, saying GDP rose at one of the fastest paces in the world
last fiscal year. Singh added he is “confident” of proving
wrong skeptics who doubt India can sustain economic momentum.  Growth Outlook  The  Reserve Bank  projects 7.3 percent growth in 2012-2013,
driven by the spending power of 1.2 billion people.  “The current problems facing the economy aren’t
insurmountable,” said  Prashant Jain , who oversees the
equivalent of about $16 billion as chief investment officer at
HDFC Asset Management Co. in Mumbai. “With a few difficult
steps, it should be possible to put it back on the rails fairly
quickly.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded its growth projection
for the country on May 25, predicting a 6.6 percent GDP increase
this fiscal year, down from 7.2 percent. It pared its outlook
for further rate cuts to 50 basis points in 2012 from 75 points.  Some companies have been affected by slower expansion. Tata
Steel Ltd., India’s biggest producer of the alloy, reported a 90
percent drop in profit in the three months through March.  India may face a difficult period of low growth and high
inflation known as “stagflation,” said Hemindra Hazari,
Mumbai-based head of research at Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  