-- Indonesia Time Zone, Russian Tax Dodgers, EU Aid: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-05-31T12:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/indonesia-time-zone-russian-tax-dodgers-eu-aid-compliance.html
Indonesia  plans to switch to a single
time zone on Oct. 28, allowing Southeast Asia’s biggest economy
to match clocks in Singapore, Malaysia and China with the aim of
boosting economic development and synchronizing markets, the
nation’s trade ministry said.  The change will put Indonesia, the world’s largest shipper
of thermal coal and tin, eight hours ahead of Greenwich Mean
Time, according to the ministry. The country that stretches
about 5,300 kilometers (3,300 miles) and borders India in the
west and Australia in the east, has three time zones.  The move will help accelerate economic development across
the country, Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  said in the statement
in Jakarta yesterday. After the change in clocks, the country’s
stock market will open 30 minutes after bourses in  Singapore  and
Malaysia, from 90 minutes at present.  Indonesia’s new time zone will follow that of countries
such as China, Korea, Singapore and Malaysia, Wirjawan said.  Jakarta’s clocks are two hours behind cities in eastern
Indonesia. A unified time zone will help improve communication
and productivity of Indonesia’s bureaucracy and help the spread
of information through medium such as television broadcasts,
Wirjawan said.  Compliance Policy  Russia Will Fight Tax Dodgers at Offshore Havens, Siluanov Says  Russia is seeking to curtail corporate use of tax havens as
the government considers changes to taxes on foreign profits by
offshore-registered units,  Finance Minister  Anton Siluanov said.  The authorities plan to “reduce opportunities to evade
taxes, which includes the use of low-tax jurisdictions and
primarily offshores,” Siluanov told lawmakers in Moscow
yesterday.  Russia may overhaul rules on controlled foreign companies,
according to a three-year tax-policy outline published on the
 Finance Ministry ’s website. The government may levy the 20
percent corporate income-tax rate on undistributed foreign
earnings of companies controlled by Russian residents, the
ministry said in the document. The measure would combat efforts
to dodge taxes by Russian parents transferring profits to
offshore destinations, according to the document.  President  Vladimir Putin , who was inaugurated for his third
term in the Kremlin this month after serving four years as prime
minister, urged Russian entrepreneurs last December to
repatriate assets held in offshore accounts and said the
government may adjust legislation to facilitate the process.
Putin ordered officials on March 5 to prepare rule changes
requiring Russian residents to declare and pay taxes on income
earned from foreign assets, the  Vedomosti  newspaper reported
yesterday.  Fed Adopts Final Rule Listing Criteria for U.S. Broker Oversight  The  Federal Reserve  adopted a final rule stipulating the
criteria under which a U.S. broker-dealer may choose the  Fed
Board of Governors  as its supervisor if government oversight is
required under laws outside the U.S.  The rule, required by section 618 of the Dodd-Frank Act,
says a U.S. securities holding company that is required by a
foreign regulator to be subject to comprehensive supervision may
register with the U.S. central bank.  The Fed lists nine types of information a securities
holding company must submit to receive consideration for
supervision, including an organizational chart, biographical
information on senior executives, and copies of the most recent
quarterly and annual reports, the Fed said in a press release.  EU Weighs Direct Aid to Banks, Euro Bonds as Crisis Antidote  The  European Commission  called for direct euro-area aid for
troubled banks, and touted a Europe-wide deposit-guarantee
system and common bond issuance as antidotes to the debt crisis
now threatening to overwhelm Spain.  The commission, the European Union’s central regulator,
sided with Spain in proposing that the euro’s permanent bailout
fund inject cash to banks instead of channeling the money via
national governments. It also offered Spain extra time to
squeeze the  budget deficit .  The use of the rescue fund to recapitalize  banks  “might be
envisaged” and would “sever the link between banks and the
sovereigns,” the commission said yesterday in Brussels.  Proposals for more liberal use of European bailout money
are likely to face resistance in creditor countries such as
Germany, Finland and the Netherlands, the scenes of growing
taxpayer opposition to more aid.  Current EU plans call for the 500 billion-euro European
Stability Mechanism, set to start up in July, to funnel bank-aid
money through national governments and, ultimately, require
those governments to pay it back.  For more, click here, and click here.  German Savings Banks Welcome High-Frequency Trading Curb Plan  The  DSGV association  of German savings banks said it
welcomes government plans to rein in high-frequency trading,
saying the group would help lawmakers to tag the trades in a
targeted fashion.  The German initiative may be worth considering for
inclusion in a revision of the Markets in Financial Instruments
Directive, DSGV said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  DSGV President Georg Fahrenschon said in the statement the
transactions carry the risk of “volatile price spikes that bear
no relation to developments in the real economy.”  Separately, high-frequency trading may be responsible for
some of the market volatility, Chairman of the Portuguese
securities regulator CMVM,  Carlos Tavares , said in Portugal’s
parliament yesterday.  These trades carry some risks and demands and supervision
isn’t prepared for them, Tavares said in Lisbon.  Direct Aid to Banks Would Endanger ESM Timeline, Austria Says  The European Commission’s call to provide direct aid to
banks would endanger the 500 billion-euro European Stability
Mechanism’s timeline, the  Austrian Finance  Ministry said
yesterday in an e-mail response to questions.  The Commission’s proposal, made yesterday in Brussels,
would require that policy makers change the rules for the ESM,
which is set to start up in July, the  Finance Ministry  said
yesterday.  China Securities Regulator to Tighten Standards for IPO Pricing  Companies planning an initial public offering may have to
resubmit their prospectuses for review if shares are priced more
than 25 percent of the industry’s earning ratio, Shanghai
Securities News reported yesterday, citing a  China   Securities
Regulatory Commission  meeting.  Separately, China’s securities regulator plans to give
priority in reviewing initial public offering of companies in
the nation’s western region to boost development there,
according to Shanghai Securities News, which cited an
unidentified person at the regulator.  China Seeks Feedback on Proposed Drug Blacklist, Xinhua Reports  China is inviting responses from the public to a proposal
to create a blacklist of illegal drug producers and sellers,
Xinhua News Agency said, citing the  State Food and Drug
Administration .  The regulation will allow for the names and “pertinent
details” of offenders to be distributed to government
departments and be published online and through the media, the
official news service reported.  Compliance Action  CLS Bank Said to Receive Systemic Label From U.S. Regulators  CLS Bank International , which settles about $4.5 trillion
in foreign-exchange transactions daily, received a letter from
U.S. regulators including it among entities proposed for
designation as systemically important, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The London-based bank, which settles transactions in 17
currencies, joins clearinghouses owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME) ;
 Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) ; OCC, formerly the Options
Clearing Corp.; and the Depository Trust and Clearing Corp. in
receiving the designation from the  Financial Stability Oversight
Council . CLS’s inclusion was confirmed by the person, who
requested anonymity because the decisions haven’t been publicly
disclosed.  Being labeled systemically important moves the so-called
financial market utilities closer to heightened supervision
under the Dodd-Frank Act. The designations are subject to appeal
and may be completed “as early as this summer,” said  Anthony
Coley , a U.S. Treasury Department spokesman.  The Clearing House Payments Co. LLC, which operates a
cross-border and domestic wire-transfer system, also received a
letter of designation.  Further Arrest in FSA Unauthorized Business Investigation  The Financial Services Authority said a 54-year-old man was
arrested March 29 in connection with a probe into a suspected
unauthorized foreign exchange trading scheme.  No one was charged at this stage of the investigation, the
FSA said in a statement.  Obama Signs Bill Reauthorizing Export-Import Bank  President  Barack Obama  signed a bill in Washington
reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank. The bill raises its
lending authority 40 percent to $140 billion by 2014 to boost
U.S. export sales and increase jobs. Renewing the charter ends a
months-long battle for survival for the 78-year-old-bank, the
official export credit agency of the U.S.  Obama also spoke about U.S. trade policy and the bank
before signing the bill.  For the video, click here.  Courts  EU Ministers Fail to Agree on Location of Patent Court  Danish Business Minister Ole Sohn said European Union
ministers couldn’t decide in talks yesterday on the location of
a European Union patent court, the last obstacle toward agreeing
on an EU-wide patent system.  EU leaders will try to strike a deal at talks next month,
he told reporters yesterday.  Interviews  Marsal Expects Europe to Accept ‘Community of Pain’  Bryan Marsal , co-founder of Alvarez & Marsal Inc., talked
about the outlook for the U.S. banking industry and
implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Marsal, who spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle 
on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack,” also discussed his
tenure as Chief Executive Officer of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and the European debt crisis.  For the video, click here.  Barroso Says European Banking Union Is a Possibility  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  spoke about the
need for closer financial integration among member states.
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn discussed
Spain’s deficit-cutting timetable.  They spoke at a news conference in Brussels.  For the video, click here.  RBS Chairman Sees ‘Constant Vigilance’ on Regulation Balance  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  Chairman  Philip Hampton 
said “constant vigilance” by his bank is needed to ensure the
correct balance between regulation, customer needs and profits.  “Elements of increased regulation are to be welcomed and
RBS’s shareholders need little reminding that their own
interests are ill-served by ineffective regulatory and capital
regimes,” Hampton, 58, said at an annual shareholder meeting in
Edinburgh yesterday. “But constant vigilance is required to
make sure that we get the balance right between regulation,
customer needs and the sustainability of the industry, including
required market-based returns for shareholders.”  Regulators are requiring banks to hold more capital as the
latest round of rules set by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision are implemented. A panel of U.K. lawmakers will
examine the financial stability tools to be given to the Bank of
England as the central bank takes on powers to regulate the
financial system, the Treasury select committee said yesterday.
The Financial Policy Committee recommended in March that
Parliament give it powers of direction over counter-cyclical
capital buffers, capital requirements and leverage ratios.  Spajic Says ECB Only Option to Help Europe Debt Crisis  Luke Spajic, head of European credit portfolio management
at Pacific Investment Management Co., talked about the role of
the  European Central Bank  in stemming the sovereign debt crisis,
Greece’s euro prospects and his investment strategy.  He spoke with Caroline Hyde on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  U.K. Treasury Appoints Former Bankers Fried, Frost to BOE Court  The U.K.  Treasury  appointed two former bankers to the court
of the Bank of England as it strengthens the oversight body
before the central bank takes on new powers.  Bradley Fried, former chief executive officer of Investec,
and Tim Frost, who worked at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  before
founding Cairn Capital, will join the court on June 1, the Bank
of England said in a statement yesterday. Dave Prentis, general
secretary of labor union UNISON, has also been appointed to the
court. The three replace Brendan Barber, Mark Tucker and
Harrison Young.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 