-- Insurance Supervisors Ready to Identify Too-Big-To-Fail Insurers
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-05-31T14:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/insurance-supervisors-ready-to-identify-too-big-to-fail-insurers.html
Insurance supervisors  have proposed
identifying too-big-to-fail insurers based on criteria including
size, global activity and the amount of non-insurance activities
they have, saying they could face stricter supervision.  Using 2010 data collected from 48 global insurance groups
the International Association of Insurance Supervisors wants to
measure the impact that distress or failure may have on the
global financial system and the wider economy, according to the
public  consultation  document published on its website today. The
IAIS has asked insurers and other interested parties to submit
comments on the proposed methodology by July 31.  The association, in  Basel ,  Switzerland , is helping the
Financial Stability Board draft a list of insurance companies
considered as systemically important, and thus too big to fail.
Those firms could then face restrictions on certain activities
and stricter supervision. The FSB is seeking to prevent a repeat
of the turmoil that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and the bailout of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)   “The potential for systemic risk within the insurance
sector needs to be considered where insurers deviate from the
traditional insurance business model, and more particularly
where they enter into non-traditional insurance or non-insurance
activities,” said Peter Braumueller, the head of the IAIS.  Non-traditional activities include alternative risk
transfers such as insurance-linked securities, and financial
guarantee insurance. Non-insurance activities are listed as
capital market businesses, banking, third-party asset management
and industrial activities.  Life insurance and variable annuities with additional
guarantees and mortgage guarantee insurance are listed as
“semi-traditional.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  