-- InterContinental Surges After Peltz’s Trian Buy: London Mover
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-05-31T16:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/intercontinental-surges-after-peltz-s-trian-buy-london-mover.html
InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ,
the world’s largest hotel operator by rooms, rose the most in
more than eight months after activist investor  Nelson Peltz ’s
Trian Fund Management LP bought a stake in the company.  InterContinental advanced 6.1 percent in London trading
after the Denham, England-based company said in a statement that
Peltz’s funds own 4.27 percent of its shares. InterContinental
had the  biggest gain  today among stocks on the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  of
the most valuable companies on the London Stock Exchange.  “There will be consolidation in the industry,”  Wyn Ellis ,
an analyst at Numis Securities Ltd., said by phone today.
“InterContinental will be attractive as it trades at such a
discount to its U.S. rivals Starwood and Marriott.”  A bid by Bethesda, Maryland-based Marriott International
Inc. for InterContinental would be compelling, Ellis said in a
research note May 29. InterContinental trades at about 13 times
its earnings per share, while Marriott trades at  31 (MAR)  times its
earnings per share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Stamford , Connecticut-based  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT)  trades at 26 times its earnings per share.  InterContinental advanced 88 pence to 1,526 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close, giving the company a market value of 4.4
billion pounds ($6.8 billion). The shares rose the most since
Sept. 14.  ‘Sought-After Assets’  Peltz, 69, “will be looking at two things: consolidation
in the sector and the potential to sell the remaining property
assets of the group,” Jeffrey Harwood, an analyst at Oriel
Securities Ltd. in London, said by phone. “Flagship hotels in
London and  Hong Kong  are sought-after assets at the moment.”  InterContinental is benefiting from rising demand in
 emerging markets  such as the greater China region, which
accounts for about 13 percent of revenue. About 30 percent of
its global expansion over the next three to five years will be
in the region. InterContinental has risen by almost 30 percent
since the start of the year.  Peltz, who is known for pushing companies to increase their
share prices, is the largest investor in fast-food chain Wendy’s
Co. His previous activist investments include ketchup maker H.J.
Heinz Co., Kraft Foods Inc. and luxury retailer Tiffany & Co.  Trian, the hedge fund run by Peltz, had about $3.4 billion
in assets under management as of Feb. 1, according to a
regulatory filing in March. The fund took a 7.3 percent stake in
Ingersoll-Rand Plc earlier this month and met with the
industrial company’s management about ways to boost the
underperforming stock, including restructuring businesses.  Earnings Increase  InterContinental’s first-quarter pretax profit rose 13
percent to $106 million, according to a May 9 statement, beating
analysts’ estimates. Revenue increased to $409 million from $396
million a year earlier.  The company’s average revenue per room, an industry measure
of occupancy and rates, rose 7.9 percent in the U.S. last year,
boosted by a renovation of its Holiday Inn chain.  Private-equity buyers like  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  have been
attracted to the lodging industry because of the returns. The
New York-based private-equity firm that manages $48 billion in
real estate assets agreed to buy the Motel 6 lodging chain from
 Accor SA (AC)  for $1.9 billion on May 22. Blackstone, which owns
Hilton Hotels, also bought U.K.-based Mint Hotels in a $950
million deal announced in September.  Hotels are “becoming more attractive to an even more
diverse audience of investors and therefore the market is
opening up more and more to investment,” Gerard Nolan of
London-based broker Gerard Nolan & Partners said in October.
Nolan has been involved in the sale of more than 350 hotels.  InterContinental Hotels Group franchises, leases, manages
or owns more than 4,500 hotels and more than 661,000 guest rooms
in almost 100 countries and territories. It has more than 1,000
hotels in its development pipeline, the company said in today’s
statement.  Peltz, Trian’s founder and chief executive officer,
declined to comment on InterContinental, spokeswoman Anne Tarbell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 