-- Investec Has Top-Paid Bank CEO Along With Lowest Returns
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-05-31T15:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/investec-has-top-paid-bank-ceo-along-with-lowest-returns.html
Stephen Koseff, South  Africa ’s best-
paid banker, has made  Investec Ltd. (INVP)  the country’s worst-
performing bank stock. Investors say he needs to cut costs --
starting with his own compensation.  Koseff’s salary and bonus at the nation’s fifth-biggest
bank rose 29 percent last year to 3.4 million pounds ($5.3
million), excluding share awards.  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,
Africa’s largest lender with a market value almost five times
that of Investec, paid its CEO, Jacko Maree, 24.7 million rand
($2.9 million).  Weighed down by acquisitions Koseff made in the U.K.,
Investec’s Johannesburg  shares  have risen 29 percent in South
Africa over 10 years, while the  FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index (JBNKS)  has
gained more than 250 percent. Investec’s return on equity
dropped for a fifth consecutive year in fiscal 2012 to 7.8
percent, the worst among South African banks.  “We want to see some real change,” Patrice Rassou, head
of equities at Cape Town-based Sanlam Investment Management, one
of Investec’s three largest  shareholders , said in a telephone
interview. “Investec hasn’t been aggressive enough in cutting
heads and cutting costs. The pay issue is now very topical, and
there’s lots of noise and saber-rattling in the market.”  U.K. Expansion  Koseff, 60, took over as CEO in 1996 after being the No. 2
executive for eight years. Since Investec’s shares started
trading on the  London  Stock Exchange in 2002, he has spent 734
million pounds on three all-stock acquisitions in Britain,
including the 2007 purchase of subprime mortgage provider
Kensington Group Plc, investment manager Rensburg Sheppards Plc
in 2010 and stockbroker Evolution Group Plc last year. While he
calls the timing on Kensington “pretty poor,” given the
subprime crisis, Koseff says the U.K. expansion will pay off.  “The remuneration committee is sitting in the next few
weeks, and I’m sure their decision will reflect the performance
we’ve had,” he said in a telephone interview. “We think we can
get those returns up to a reasonable level. The days of 20
percent for a banking group are gone.”  Investec wants to reach a  return on equity  of 12 percent to
16 percent in two to five years, he said.  In a report in February, Johannesburg-based research firm
Prophet Analytics called Koseff  South Africa ’s most overpaid
CEO. Koseff was  overpaid  by 30.7 million rand, or about 2.75
million pounds, in 2011, Loane Sharp, a labor economist,
calculated, based on Koseff’s total basic compensation and
short-term bonuses, shareholder returns and the company’s number
of employees and risk profile.  ‘Expansion Was Wrong’  “A lot of shareholders at the time thought the
international expansion was wrong and that turned out to be
correct,” Sharp said in a telephone interview. “Management’s
expansion overseas suited themselves rather than investors. They
benchmark pay in the U.K. so they used international exposure to
augment their pay.”  Neville Chester, a fund manager at Cape Town-based
 Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML) , and David Couldridge, a fund
manager at Element Investment Managers in  Cape Town , said they
want improved profitability and to see pay and performance
linked. If profit is muted, pay should be, too, they said.  “Pay is an issue I think all shareholders have raised with
the board,” said Chester, who like Couldridge holds Investec
shares. “We will look at whether or not there has been an
unjust enrichment of management. If we see it, we’re absolutely
prepared to vote against that.” Investec’s annual general
meeting is in August.  Investec’s executive compensation is benchmarked against
the  FTSE 350 General Finance Index firms , said Ursula Nobrega,
the lender’s head of  investor relations , without naming the
companies used for comparisons.  ‘Huge Push Back’  Banks globally are showing a “huge push back” to
regulation and “have not done themselves proud” on issues such
as executive pay, South Africa’s central bank governor,  Gill Marcus , said in a presentation on May 30. “There’s very little
recognition that the distrust is not just about politicians,”
she said. “It’s also about banks’ leadership and the kind of
role they’re playing. You’ve got to rebuild trust, and you don’t
rebuild trust by thumbing your nose at the people who are paying
the price for your greed.”  Since Koseff became CEO 16 years ago, Investec has
increased assets more than 14-fold to 51.6 billion pounds as the
company expanded from its South African origins to banking,
money management and property in the U.K. and  Australia .  Costly for Shareholders  As a so-called specialist bank, Investec provides private-
banking services to high-net-worth clients and offers companies
services including lending, structured finance, foreign exchange
and advisory support. In South Africa,  Investec Asset Management 
has grown into one of the three largest money managers with 40
billion pounds under management in the country and 60 billion
pounds managed around the world.  Koseff’s push into the U.K. over the past decade has been
costly for shareholders, said Kokkie Kooyman, head of Sanlam
Investment Management Global, who has been twice voted  fund
manager  of the year by  Investment Week , a British industry
publication. The Australian expansion, begun in 1997, hasn’t
worked out either, said Faizal Moolla, an analyst at Avior
Research in Cape Town.  “They made very poor acquisitions in the run-up to the
2008 crisis,” Kooyman said, adding Investec paid “with very
undervalued shares, which makes the acquisitions expensive.”  “Investec is a bull market stock, so in a  bear market  all
the warts are revealed,” he said. He called Koseff “one of the
cleverest and best bankers I know, but too thinly stretched.”  U.K., Australia  Since beginning trading in London, the contribution from
Investec’s U.K. and Australian units to  operating profit  dropped
to 31 percent in 2011 from 48 percent in 2002. In the 10 years
to 2012, the company’s total net income has doubled while
 Standard Bank , which continues to trade only in Johannesburg,
almost trebled its profit. Investec’s U.K. profit was little
changed in fiscal 2012 after increasing in 2010 and last year.
The Australian unit reported a decline in profit last year and a
loss for 2012.  From 127.6 million pounds 10 years ago, Investec’s  profit 
reached a record 344.7 million pounds in 2008. While net income
grew in 2010 and 2011, profit slipped in 2012 to 257.6 million
pounds, 25 percent off its high four years earlier.  Stephan Potgieter, a UBS AG analyst in Johannesburg, who
has a buy rating on Investec, said the company should consider
closing its U.K. banking operations. Moolla, the Avior analyst,
said Investec should pull out of Australia, where the company
has said falling residential property values and slower-than-
expected economic growth has hurt results.  ‘Very Good Base’  Koseff, whose 0.83 percent stake in Investec is valued at
about 24 million pounds, said he has no intention of divesting
in the  U.K. or Australia .  “We have created a very good base in the U.K. and reshaped
the business in Australia quite dramatically,” Koseff said.
“We’re now in a position to generate the right kind of returns.
It’s not a one-day game.”  Buying Kensington just before the subprime crisis “caused
us a lot of trauma,” he said. Impairment losses at Kensington
increased to 99.4 million pounds in fiscal 2012 from 69.9
million pounds a year earlier, Investec said on May 17.  In London, Investec Plc’s  shares  have risen 101 percent in
10 years compared with a 6.2 percent gain in the FTSE 100 Index.
Investec’s London shares have lost 1.5 percent this year while
the benchmark is down 5 percent.  The stock  closed 1.6 percent
higher in London trading today, adding 5.3 pence to finish at
333.8 pence.  U.K. Benchmark  With 70 percent of earnings and 56 percent of the net asset
value in South Africa, Investec should benchmark compensation
against South African, not U.K., banks, Henry Hall, a Citigroup
Inc. analyst in Johannesburg, wrote in a note on April 18.  “Investec’s executive directors earn significantly more
than their South African peers despite an inferior ROE and cost
of equity ratio,” wrote Hall, who this month was ranked South
Africa’s top bank analyst by the  Financial Mail . “The
disconnect between operational performance and executive
directors’ compensation, as well as the high relative levels of
compensation, need to be rectified. Failure to take action could
mean Investec is a good place to work, but not necessarily a
good company in which to invest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  