-- Irish Vote on Fiscal Treaty as Europe’s Debt Crisis Deepens
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-05-31T15:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/irish-vote-on-fiscal-treaty-as-europe-s-debt-crisis-deepens-3-.html
The Irish vote on the European
Union’s latest treaty today, with polls indicating they will
endorse measures designed to ease the euro region’s debt crisis.  Ballots can be cast until 10 p.m., with 3.1 million people
eligible to vote. Early  tallies  may give an indication of the
outcome by mid-morning in Dublin tomorrow, with a final result
due in the evening.  Opinion polls indicate that supporters of the Fiscal
Stability Treaty lead by about 18 percentage points even as
doubts grow about the viability of the euro region. While
opponents of European austerity such as Nobel laureate economist
 Paul Krugman  are urging the Irish to reject it, the government’s
argument that the treaty is needed to secure future bailout
funds is carrying more weight.  “I voted ‘Yes’ because I want funding to be in the country
for our future, for our children, and jobs,” said Martina
McKenna, 51, a child care manager, after voting at a polling
station in central Dublin. “Funding was the main issue.”  By about 1 p.m. local time, voter turnout was about 10
percent, Dublin-based broadcaster RTE said today.  ‘Fairy Godmother’  A yes outcome is 1-33, meaning 33 euros ($41) would return
1 euro of profit, according to Dublin-based bookmaker  Paddy
Power Plc. (PWL)  A no vote is 10-1 which would mean a 10 euro profit
on a 1 euro wager, with odds lengthening through the campaign as
Greek and Spanish debt woes intensified.  Without access to European bailout funds, there is no
“fairy godmother” willing to unconditionally fund Ireland when
the current aid program ends in 2013, Deputy Prime Minister
 Eamon Gilmore  told RTE yesterday.  The yield on Irish October 2020 bonds fell 3 basis points
to 7.38 percent today after earlier climbing to the highest
level since Jan. 23.  “It is overwhelmingly in Ireland’s interest to vote for
the treaty” said  Megan Greene , senior economist at Roubini
Global Economics LLC in  London . “Ireland voting down the fiscal
compact would only serve to drive a wedge between itself and its
European partners.”  Some Irish voters have grown weary of the cost cutting. The
last two governments have introduced 24 billion euros of budget
reductions since the economy went into recession in 2008.  In an interview with BBC Radio yesterday, Krugman said a
rejection by the Irish, “who have been such good soldiers,”
would send a message to  Germany  that austerity is damaging the
European economy.  “I voted ‘No.’ You can take me for a fool once, you won’t
take me for a fool twice,” said Tom Keon, 68, in Dublin. “The
country is broke, and what are they doing with austerity? They
are taking the money from the poor people that are struggling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  