-- Irish Start Counting EU Treaty Voters
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-06-01T06:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/irish-start-counting-eu-treaty-voters.html
Ireland will today start counting
votes in a referendum on the European Union’s fiscal treaty,
with opinion polls before the ballot indicating the compact will
be passed.  Counting begins around the country at 9.a.m. local time
after yesterday’s vote on the treaty, which enshrines tougher
budgetary rules into law. The “yes” camp is confident of
victory, with the treaty backed by at least 60 percent, the
Irish Times reported, without citing anyone. Turnout was about
50 percent, the Dublin-based newspaper said.  Early tallies may give an indication of the outcome by mid-
morning, with a final result due in the evening. The count can
be followed on  www.referendum.ie/index.php . The Cork-based Irish
Examiner reported that some of the “yes” side were concerned
the low turnout meant that the treaty could be defeated.  Ireland’s ability to access future bailout funds after its
current program runs out at the end of 2013 is at stake in the
vote, according to the government. Former Irish Finance Minister
 Alan Dukes  said yesterday that supporters of the treaty will
probably win with a “narrow margin.” Around 3.1 million people
were entitled to vote.  Ireland would leave itself in a “weak bargaining
position” if it rejected the compact, Dukes said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. It is “prudent” to assume
that the country will need to extend the 67.5 billion euro
($83.5 billion) it received in 2010, he said.  Opinion Polls  Opinion polls before the vote indicated that supporters of
the treaty lead by about 18 percentage points even as doubts
grow about the viability of the euro region.  “This is a sign to the world that we are not going in the
same direction as  Greece ,” said Kieran Binchy, a member of
Prime Minister  Enda Kenny ’s ruling party, speaking outside a
polling station in Dublin’s city center.  A “yes” outcome is 1-33, meaning 33 euros ($41) would
return 1 euro of profit, according to Dublin-based bookmaker
 Paddy Power Plc. (PWL)  A “no” vote is 10-1 which would mean a 10
euro profit on a 1 euro wager, with odds lengthening through the
campaign as Greek and Spanish debt woes intensified.  “I voted ‘no’ out of fear of more austerity,” said Aoife
Farrell, 28, a student at University College Cork, in the south
of the country. “We should be negotiating an alternative
solution and sending that message.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  