-- Issa Wants to Question Solis About Labor Data Changes
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-05-31T10:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/issa-wants-to-question-solis-about-labor-data-changes.html
A congressional panel plans to
question U.S. Labor Secretary Hilda Solis about her department’s
decision to require news organizations to use government
computers to file stories about employment data.  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, headed
by Republican Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California , said in
a statement yesterday that the April 20 order on media coverage
of employment statistics will be examined at a June 6 hearing on
the influence of Labor Department political appointees over the
collection and release of data by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. Solis was invited to attend the hearing along with
the bureau’s acting head.  The policy, set to take effect July 1, changes a
longstanding practice that lets news organizations, including
Bloomberg News, use their own computer systems to file and
transmit stories about  unemployment data  and consumer prices
from so-called lock-ups at the Labor Department.  Reporters and editors are given the data on an embargoed
basis in advance to give them time to write and edit stories
from the lock-up room at the department. When the data are
released, a Labor Department official flips a switch to let news
organizations transmit over telephone and data lines using their
own equipment.  The Sunshine in Government Initiative, a coalition of news
organizations that includes the National Newspaper Association
and the American Society of News Editors, protested the new
policy in a May 8 letter to Solis.  Government Computers  “Requiring news organizations to draft news articles on
government-owned and government-operated computers would give
the government unfettered access to unpublished draft news
stories and will necessarily inhibit journalists from producing
thorough, timely and accurate reporting based on market-moving
information,” the group said in the letter.  The Labor Department has said the changes would protect the
security of market-moving data before it is released to the
public. At the time the policy was announced, Labor Department
spokesman Carl A. Fillichio cited “violations of the embargo
and the use of equipment in the lockups” as a rationale for the
changes.  The agency has ordered media organizations to remove
computer software, hardware and communications lines they have
installed at the department. Under the new procedures, reporters
will be required to use government computer equipment, software
and Internet connections.  News Organization Opposition  Bloomberg News and other media organizations that have
opposed the changes are in talks with the Labor Department about
lock-up procedures.  Issa has led his committee in frequent probes of President
 Barack Obama ’s administration, such as reviews of Energy
Department loan-guarantee programs and spending at a 2010
General Services Administration conference in  Las Vegas .  Earlier this month, Maine Senator Susan Collins, the
ranking Republican on the Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs Committee, asked the Labor Department to investigate
what she termed unusual trading activity before the agency
released its report on employment in April.  “The sudden and negative movement in the currency and
futures markets suggests the possibility that some traders may
have gained unauthorized access to April’s disappointing report
prior to its official release,” Collins said in a letter to
Solis.  The Labor Department’s May 4 report showed that employers
in the U.S. added 115,000 workers to payrolls, the fewest in six
months and fewer than forecast by economists.  Treasury 10-year note futures contracts rose as high as 132
20/32 one minute before the payroll data was released at 8:30
a.m., after trading in a range of 132 2/32 to 132 5/32. After
the data came out, futures continued to rise, climbing as high
as 132 22/32 before settling at 132 20/32.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  