-- Italy Inflation Rate Remained at Six-Month High in April
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-05-31T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/italy-inflation-rate-remained-at-six-month-high-in-april.html
The inflation rate in  Italy  fell in
May as a decline in energy costs left consumer prices unchanged
from the previous month.  The  inflation  rate based on European Union measurements
fell to 3.5 percent from 3.7 percent in April when it reached a
seven-month high, Rome-based national statistics office Istat
said in a preliminary report today. That was less than the
median forecast of 3.6 percent by three economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Prices were unchanged from the previous 
month.  Crude  oil prices  fell almost 14 percent in May, leading to
a drop of 0.9 percent in transportation costs in Italy from the
previous month. That was the biggest drop of any category of
goods and services that make us the index.  Italian gasoline prices had climbed to the highest in
 Europe  after Monti’s government increased taxes on the fuel as
part of its 20 billion-euro ($25 billion) austerity package
passed in December. A drop in demand and the drop in crude
prices helped bring down gasoline costs in recent weeks.  Prices of the fuel will rise again after the government
yesterday introduced an additional levy on gasoline to help fund
reconstruction in the northern regions hit by two  fatal
earthquakes  this month.  In April, producer prices rose 2.5 percent from a year
earlier and 0.3 percent from the previous month, Istat said
yesterday.  Consumers Pessimism  Italy’s  consumer confidence  plunged this month to the
lowest, crimping domestic demand.  Business confidence  also
declined this month to the lowest since August 2009, amid
concerns the recession that began in the fourth quarter may
deepen, Istat said May 28.  Industrial production will decrease 0.6 percent this month,
after falling 0.5 percent in April, as the earthquakes weigh on
the economic outlook with “lasting” consequences on output,
Rome-based employers lobby Confindustria said yesterday.  Based on  Italian methodology , prices were unchanged in May
from the previous month and advanced 3.2 percent  from a year
earlier , Istat said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  