-- Italian Labor-Market Reform Passes First Hurdle in Senate
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-05-31T11:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/italian-labor-market-reform-passes-first-hurdle-in-senate.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
government won Senate approval of a labor-market overhaul that
includes new rules for hiring and firing workers aimed at
boosting growth amid Italy’s fourth recession in a decade.  The upper house of Parliament voted 231 to 33 in Rome today
to approve the legislation, which now passes to the Chamber of
Deputies for final approval.  Italy’s unemployment rate in March reached 9.8 percent, the
highest since 2000. The labor package includes rules that favor
hiring young people and women and give companies more
flexibility in firing workers in a bid to jumpstart the economy,
which has contracted for three straight quarters.  The rules on dismissals were the most debated in the
government’s negotiations with unions earlier this year and in
Parliament after the Cabinet passed the reform on April 4. While
courts will keep the power to reinstate workers fired for
reasons such as race or religion, employees let go for economic
reasons may get their jobs back if the motives for dismissal are
deemed groundless.  CGIL,  Italy ’s main union, has said it will hold a general
strike against the new legislation.  Labor Minister Elsa Fornero has said that the new firing
rules should also apply to civil servants. “We can’t have
differences” in the treatment of private and public workers,
she told reports in Turin on May 24.  The legislation approved today introduces a new system of
 unemployment benefits  aimed at ensuring a comprehensive safety
net for a broader pool of workers than under current rules. A
new “Employment Insurance” fund, or ASPI, to be financed with
contributions from the state and companies, will be gradually
introduced starting from next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 