-- Italians Snap Up Earthquake-Damaged Parmesan Cheese
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-05-31T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/italians-snap-up-earthquake-damaged-parmesan-cheese.html
Cheese maker Dante Caretti’s worst
nightmare came true in the early morning of May 20, when he was
awakened by a crashing noise during a 5.9-magnitude  earthquake 
that struck  Italy ’s Emilia-Romagna region.  Caretti, 70, was less concerned about damage to his home
than to the thousands of wheels of aging parmesan cheese that he
heard sliding off his warehouse’s shelves. Around 10 percent of
parmesan production in the Emilia-Romagna region may have been
damaged in the quake and a second trembler this week, the
Parmigiano-Reggiano trade association estimates.  Parmesan cheese is a 1.2 billion euro ($1.5 billion)
industry in Italy, where a 39-kilo (86-pound) wheel that’s aged
for 24 months can retail for more than 700 euros. Genuine
parmesan, which is sprinkled on pasta dishes, cooked into
risotto or eaten as a snack, is so precious that some regional
banks, including Credito Emiliano SpA, hold the pungent gold
cheese as collateral for loans to producers.  As much as 60 percent of wheels in Caretti’s warehouse was
damaged in the two quakes. To aid producers like Caretti,
Coldiretti a farmers trade association, has started a
“solidarity” campaign to help sell cheese damaged during the
quakes. The bruised wheels will be chopped into smaller pieces
and sold.  “While there’s no hope for younger cheeses aged up to one
year, we have at least 5,000 wheels of more mature cheese that
survived the quake and can be sold within a month,” he said.  More than 4,000 potential customers have called Coldiretti
to order the Parmesan damaged during the quakes since the sale
started on May 26. Dozens of sales points have been set up and
cheese makers are working to organize home deliveries, Giuseppe
Di Paolo, a Coldiretti spokesman for the Emilia-Romagna region,
said by phone.  “It’s a total success, people have called from  France ,
 Germany , even the U.S.,” Di Paolo said. “We have already sold
hundreds of Parmesan wheels,” he said, adding that prices are
only at a slight discount to avoid undercutting sales of
undamaged cheeses.  Losses in the agricultural industry from the two quakes,
totals about 500 million euros, including damage to  farm
equipment , buildings and to the cheese, according to Coldiretti.
About 30 cheese factories have been damaged in Emilia Romagna
and about 600,000 parmesan wheels fell in warehouses during the
quakes, a spokesman for the association of producers of
Parmigiano Reggiano cheese said. Around half of that cheese, or
about 10 percent of the region’s annual production, was damaged,
he said.  Emilia-Romagna is also known for other distinctive foods
like balsamic vinegar and Parma ham.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  