-- Italian Leaders Press for German Action to Fight Crisis
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-05-31T11:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/italian-leaders-press-for-german-action-to-fight-crisis.html
Italy’s prime minister and central
bank chief pressed  Germany  to back more aggressive efforts to
snuff out the escalating debt crisis, setting up a south-north
showdown over how to stabilize the 17-nation euro economy.  Warning that six decades of European integration are at
stake, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  called on German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to take steps to halt the financial rot
before a backlash builds against budget cuts. Monti and Bank of
Italy Governor Ignazio Visco pushed Germany to give up its
opposition to direct euro-area aid for hard-hit banks.  “Countries that are at the core of the system and which
have had the huge merit of instilling the culture of stability
to the European Union in the first place, most notably Germany,
should really reflect deeply but quickly,” Monti said by video
link to an European Union conference in Brussels today. “ Europe 
should really accelerate the efforts, as the European Commission
is doing, in order to limit the contagion.”  With the euro close to a two-year low and investors
hoarding German assets to stave off losses, Merkel found herself
on the defensive amid evidence that her budget-cutting
prescriptions have failed to set Europe on a path out of the
crisis.  ‘No Taboos’  The chancellor, asked about proposals on bank aid made by
the European Commission yesterday, said there were no “taboos
on thinking” as Europe pushes for closer integration. Policy
makers can probably “make it clearer to the international
financial markets” what steps the EU has taken to fend off
instability in the banking sector, she told reporters in the
Baltic Sea port of Stralsund today.  Merkel lost her chief crisis-fighting ally this month when
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  was defeated by  Francois Hollande , a Socialist who challenged the pro-austerity doctrine
and called for a more activist central bank.  Monti joined Hollande in cornering Merkel in a conference
call yesterday with U.S. President  Barack Obama , who has
criticized Europe for failing to get to grips with the crisis.
The four-way call addressed “developments in Europe,” the
White House said in a statement.  Financial markets have been jolted by concerns that  Greece 
will shred the terms of its bailout and that  Spain  will be
swamped by  bank failures , resulting in a plunge in the euro and
investors relinquishing returns for security, sending the yield
on German two-year notes to zero yesterday.  Italy Punished  Italy ’s extra 10-year borrowing costs over German levels
reached 466 basis points, the highest since January. Monti said
Italy is being punished for mistakes made elsewhere, while
acknowledging that Italy is handicapped by debt at 123.5 percent
of gross domestic product in 2011.  Monti and Visco pushed Germany to back a proposal made
yesterday by the Brussels-based commission, the EU’s executive
branch, to allow the euro-area’s bailout fund to channel aid
directly to banks.  Germany, Europe’s dominant economy, is spearheading
resistance to direct financing for lenders because that would
let governments bypass the conditions set for full aid programs,
such as deeper budget cuts and more European intrusion into
economic management.  Speaking in  Rome , Visco evoked “the possibility of
intervening promptly in the securities markets and directly in
favor of banks, with procedures that are more flexible and less
penalizing for the beneficiary countries that respect the
rules.”  The central bank now has 212 billion euros of peripheral
countries’ bonds on its books. It put the program, designed to
smooth the “transmission” of its interest-rate policy, on hold
in March.  ‘Too German’  Monti, a former economics professor who fought against
Italy’s culture of spending and inflation in the 1980s and spent
a decade at the commission in Brussels, said “maybe I’m too
German” in matters of economic and budget policy.  That credo and the imposition of budget cuts that will put
Italy in structural surplus next year give the non-partisan
Monti -- heading a technocratic government that will expire in
2013 -- leverage in dealing with the Germans.  “Their own best product for export which we are very
grateful to the Germans for having invented and promoted -- the
culture of stability -- risks being undermined because of lack
of promptness in setting up the necessary instruments to limit
the contagion,” Monti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  