-- Mittal Price Squeeze in $960 Billion Steelmaking Industry
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-06-01T16:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/mittal-price-squeeze-in-960-billion-steelmaking-industry.html
Lakshmi Mittal , whose $46 billion
takeover in 2006 created ArcelorMittal as the world’s largest
steelmaker, is getting pushed around.  The U.K.’s richest person can’t stop his iron-ore suppliers
from raising prices and can’t pass on higher costs to customers
share like  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , after the Luxembourg-based company’s
market fell to its lowest since 2009. The company’s stock slid
to a record today, and yields on debt issued this year are close
to their highest relative to benchmark bonds.  Even after years of consolidation, today’s five biggest
steelmakers including ArcelorMittal and  South Korea ’s  Posco (005490) 
control no more than 19 percent of the $960 billion global
market, too little to defend their prices. In contrast,  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Vale SA (VALE)  and  Rio Tinto  Group mine about 63 percent
of the world’s iron ore exported as the main ingredient in
steelmaking, while the five biggest automakers that buy
ArcelorMittal’s steel make about 51 percent of the world’s cars.  “They really are between two behemoth industries,” said
 Tim Cahill , an analyst at J&E Davy Holdings Ltd. in Dublin.
“They are just one cog in a chain between large suppliers and
customers and they are just the middle man with no pricing
power.”  ArcelorMittal reported an operating margin of 5.2 percent
last year, compared with 49 percent at Vale, the world’s biggest
iron-ore exporter. The steel company’s 500 million euros of 4.5
percent bonds due 2018 yield about 380 basis points more than
benchmark German government debt. The gap was at a record 387
basis points yesterday, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show.  European Pinch  ArcelorMittal today dropped 2.7 percent to 10.87 euros by
the close in Amsterdam trading, the lowest since the 2006
merger. The Bloomberg Europe Steel Index declined to the lowest
since August 2004, as  Germany ’s largest steelmaker  ThyssenKrupp
AG (TKA)  dropped 3.7 percent.  Spokesmen for ArcelorMittal, Rio and BHP declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News. Vale’s press office in
 Rio de Janeiro  declined to comment.  The global pinch is sharpest in Europe. The Bloomberg
Europe 500 Steel Index has dropped 80 percent in four years, the
worst performance of the  37 industry groups  tracked by
Bloomberg.  ArcelorMittal is fighting to increase its market share from
6.2 percent last year as the industry faces a 1.8 percent
earnings-growth forecast in the next 12 months. That compares
with an average 6.7 percent among Europe’s largest 500 companies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Mittal has seen his market share eroded by the financial
crisis, slipping from 9.5 percent in 2006, when he created a
steelmaker with $88.6 billion in annual sales, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. ThyssenKrupp said May 15 that earnings
were being curbed by “intense competition” in the  steel
industry .  ‘Party Hangover’  Global steel capacity use is about 80 percent, according to
Macquarie Group Ltd., a level too low to give steelmakers
pricing power.  World steel demand growth this year is forecast to slow to
3.6 percent from 5.6 percent last year and in Europe there may
be a 1.2 percent contraction as the sovereign debt crisis saps
purchases. Europe “remains a live concern,”  ArcelorMittal (MT) ’s
Chief Financial Officer  Aditya Mittal  said last month.  “We are still suffering from the party hangover from the
2005 to 2008 years,” said Christian Georges, a London-based
analyst at Olivetree Securities Ltd. “It was a once-in-a-
lifetime situation where the steel suppliers had the upper hand
on desperate buyers.”  CFO Aditya Mittal, Lakshmi Mittal’s son, said on a
conference call last month that the industry has “room to do
better” on supply discipline, while ThyssenKrupp said industry
price discipline was “weak.”  Mittal Versus Chinese  ArcelorMittal “gives one the impression that there is a
relatively high degree of consolidation,” Georges said. “The
truth is that one big guy can’t change the logic of the
industry. What does change it is when you have an oligopoly of
three or four guys.”  Under Mittal, the 61-year-old chairman and chief executive
who began his industrial career in his parents’ steel company,
the company trimmed output about 20 percent from the 116 million
metric tons produced in 2007, while Chinese mills have more than
doubled volumes since 2004 to 684 million tons last year.  Global steel sales totaled about $960 billion in 2010,
according to a report by Research & Markets, a Dublin-based
research company.  Rio Tinto (RIO) , Vale and BHP posted record operating profit last
year, driven by earnings from their iron-ore units. Steelmakers
have struggled to adapt to changes in raw-material pricing
introduced two years ago as mining companies ended a decades-old
system of annual contract talks in favor of quarterly accords or
spot pricing.  ‘Upper Hand’  That means steelmakers have lost the ability to negotiate
the price of their biggest cost base, eroding margins as too
much steelmaking capacity and competition for sales makes it
difficult to pass on cost increases to their customers.  “There’s no doubt that having three guys controlling the
world’s low-cost iron ore means that they have the upper hand,”
said Georges. “They can accelerate or slow down their supplies
and they will dictate the price level.”  To be sure, ArcelorMittal has focused on buying and
building its own iron-ore and coal mines to reduce dependence on
the biggest producers. The company plans to produce 100 million
tons by 2015, up from 54 million tons last year, as it taps
mining assets in countries including  Canada ,  Brazil  and Liberia.  Input Costs  “Steel production is essentially a conversion business
now, and the days when raw materials made up only 30 percent to
35 percent of costs, compared to 75 percent to 80 percent now,
are long gone,” Macquarie Group said in a May 14 report. Given
weak demand and overcapacity, “the coming months and even years
are set to see relatively tepid price action and thin steelmaker
margins.”  ArcelorMittal’s average steel selling price at its Flat
Carbon  Europe  unit, the company’s biggest business by sales, was
$861 a ton in the first quarter, down from $928 a year earlier.
The unit reported earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization of $17 a ton in the first three months of 2012,
down from $64 a year earlier.  European steelmakers  have lost about three-quarters of
their value from the industry’s pre-crisis peak in 2008. That
compares with a 35 percent decline by the automakers from a 2007
high, and a 48 percent drop for mining companies from a 2008
peak, based on the Bloomberg World Auto Manufacturers and
Bloomberg World Mining indexes.  “Unfortunately they are just the price taker in this, with
customers who are very consolidated and suppliers who are
probably the biggest oligopoly in the world,” said Cahill.
“It’s hard to know what is going to change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  