-- Liverpool Reaches Agreement to Compensate Swansea for Rodgers
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-05-31T18:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/liverpool-reaches-agreement-to-compensate-swansea-for-rodgers.html
Swansea reached an agreement with
Liverpool on the compensation it will receive to allow the 18-
time English champion to hire  Brendan Rodgers  as manager, the
Welsh club said on its website.  Liverpool is set to appoint Rodgers as successor to  Kenny Dalglish , who was fired May 16 after the team slumped to its
worst league performance in 18 years. Calls to Liverpool weren’t
answered outside business hours.  “We can today confirm that a compensation package with
Liverpool has been agreed for manager Brendan Rodgers and three
members of his backroom staff,” Swansea said on its website.
“The Swans agreed to allow the backroom trio to join Brendan
following discussions between himself and Chairman  Huw Jenkins .”  Liverpool said it will hold a press conference at 10 a.m.
tomorrow. The club, which has spent about 100 million pounds
($154 million) on new players since the start of 2011, was
eighth in the Premier League last season, 37 points behind
champion  Manchester City . Swansea, promoted from the second tier
last year, came 11th.  The Reds won the Carling Cup in February to secure their
first trophy in six years and lost to Chelsea in the May 5 F.A.
Cup final. While Dalglish guided Liverpool to those cup finals,
the team lost 14 of its 38 league games.  A native of Northern Ireland, Rodgers, 39, was the youngest
manager in England’s Championship when he joined Watford in
November 2008 at 35. He’d worked under  Jose Mourinho  at Chelsea
before leaving for the second-tier team.  Coached Watford, Reading  Rodgers, whose playing career was ended early by injury,
ran Reading’s youth team for nine seasons before moving to
Chelsea. He was the Blues’ youth-team manager for two seasons
and then was promoted to oversee the reserve squad. After
coaching Watford, he was at Reading before leading Swansea into
the top league.  Liverpool has been trying to revamp its management after
the disappointing season. Dalglish joined director of football
Damien Comolli, head of sports science Peter Brukner and
communications director  Ian Cotton  in leaving as Fenway Sports
Group -- which also owns baseball’s  Boston Red Sox  --
restructures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  