-- Ivory Coast Cocoa Farmers Want End to Processors’ Tax Breaks
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2012-05-31T14:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/ivory-coast-cocoa-farmers-want-end-to-processors-tax-breaks.html
A group of cocoa farmers in  Ivory
Coast  want the government to put a stop to the tax breaks given
to cocoa exporters that grind beans in the West African nation
because they say it penalizes local cooperatives.  “We’re asking everyone to be on the same level,” said
Mamadou Kone, head of the National Circle of Coffee and Cocoa
Producers, an Abidjan-based producers’ association which claims
to have 200,000 members. “There is no fair competition if some
operators receive subsidies and others don’t.”  The tax break was given to local grinders 20 years ago to
encourage processors to set up operations in the world’s biggest
cocoa producer, and increase processing capacity, said Kone, who
sits on the 12-member board of governors of the new cocoa
regulating body, the Coffee Cocoa Council. Kone said he spoke on
his own behalf.  Companies that ship semi-processed cocoa products rather
than beans can negotiate a discount on a 14.6 percent export
tax, according to the former state-controlled Coffee and Cocoa
Management Committee. The council, which was created as part of
industry changes made last year, now oversees cocoa.  Minister of Agriculture Mamadou Sangafowa Coulibaly said in
January the government was re-examining the tax breaks. Roselyne
Aka, in charge of communications at the ministry, didn’t answer
calls made to her mobile phone today.  In December, nine exporters that don’t grind beans,
including Groupe Sucres et Denees SA and Touton SA, asked that
the government scrap the subsidy.  Tax breaks to the major cocoa exporters, Archer-Daniels-
Midland Co., Cargill Inc., Cemoi of  France  and  Barry Callebaut
AG (BARN) , were worth almost 28 billion  CFA francs  ($53 million) in
2010, according to a December letter from the nine cocoa buyers.  Kone said the subsidy costs at least 30 billion CFA francs
each year. “The money should be used to help farmers and local
cooperatives, build roads, hospitals and schools,” he said.  July delivery cocoa gained 1.7 percent to 1,474 pounds
($2,269) per metric ton by 3:45 p.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  