-- U.S. Labor Market Cools as Jobless Claims Rise: Economy
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-05-31T21:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/jobless-claims-in-u-s-increased-by-10-000-to-383-000-last-week.html
The number of Americans applying for
 unemployment  benefits rose to a one-month high and companies
hired fewer workers than forecast, casting doubt on the vigor of
the labor market.  First-time claims for unemployment insurance payments
increased by 10,000 to 383,000 in the week ended May 26,  Labor
Department  data showed today. Private employment climbed by
133,000 in May, Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Employer Services
said. The median estimate of 39 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for an advance of 150,000.  Stocks and Treasury yields fell as the figures pointed to
weakness in the world’s largest economy just as  Europe ’s debt
crisis intensifies. Other reports today showed gross domestic
product grew less than initially estimated in the first quarter
and business activity in May expanded at the slowest pace in
more than two years.  “All the signposts are in the same direction -- which is
for slowing job growth,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior U.S.
economist at Bank of America Corp. in New York, who projected
claims would rise. “The backdrop for consumer spending is weak.
This is the recovery of fits and starts and it seems like we are
entering a slow patch again.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.2 percent to
1,310.33 at the close of trading in  New York . The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note decreased six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 1.56 percent as of 4:59 p.m. after
earlier falling to a record 1.5309 percent.  Payroll Forecast  Companies may be wary of adding workers until they see more
evidence of a pickup in consumer spending. A Labor Department
report tomorrow may show private payrolls rose by 160,000 in
May, and unemployment held at 8.1 percent, economists projected.
Including government workers, employment probably rose by
150,000 following a 115,000 April increase that was the smallest
in six months.  “Businesses have exhibited an extreme degree of caution in
terms of  capital investment  as well as hiring,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “Things are just kind of slogging along.”  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its
barometer decreased to 52.7, the lowest since September 2009,
from 56.2 in April. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.
Economists projected the gauge would rise to 56.8, according to
the median of 55 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.9 percent annual rate
from January through March, down from a 2.2 percent prior
estimate, reflecting smaller gains in inventories and bigger
government cutbacks, according to revised Commerce Department
figures released today. The report also showed corporate profits
rose at the slowest pace in more than three years and smaller
wage gains at the end of 2011.  Global Slowdown  The U.S. cooled last quarter just as other global economies
also lost steam. Growth in the 17-nation euro region stagnated
in the first quarter from the same time in 2011.  China’s economy 
expanded 8.1 percent in the first three months of 2012 from a
year earlier, the slowest pace in 11 quarters.  Prices in Europe rose at the slowest pace in more than a
year as the economic slump showed signs of deepening, according
to other figures released today.  Inflation in the 17-nation euro area rose 2.4 percent in
May from a year earlier after increasing 2.6 percent in 12
months ended April, the European Union’s statistics office said
in Luxembourg. A separate report showed German unemployment fell
in May.  Demand in Asia  In  Asia , domestic demand spurred an unexpected gain in
South Korean industrial production and stronger-than-forecast
growth in the Philippine economy.  American households were a mainstay of the U.S. expansion
last quarter.  Consumer spending  climbed at a 2.7 percent annual
rate, revised from a 2.9 percent initial estimate and following
a 2.1 percent gain in the prior three months. Purchases added
1.9 percentage points to growth.  Revisions to income figures may raise concern about whether
purchases can sustain similar gains. Wages and salaries rose by
$28.9 billion in the fourth quarter, less than the $89.1 billion
gain previously reported. That reduced the saving rate to 4.2
percent at the end of 2011. The rate decreased to 3.6 percent in
the first quarter, the lowest since the fourth quarter of 2007.  Gasoline prices have declined since the end of the first
quarter, leaving consumers with more to spend on other goods and
bolstering confidence in their finances.  Sentiment Improves  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 39.3 in
the week ended May 27 from minus 42 in the prior period. The
reading was little changed from this year’s average of minus
38.9. All three of its components -- the economy, personal
finances and buying plans -- advanced.  “I remain cautiously optimistic about improving economic
trends as the year goes on and I feel like our North American
business is performing OK in a difficult environment,” Ron Sargent, chief executive officer of office-supply retailer
 Staples Inc. (SPLS) , said during a May 16 earnings call. “We continue
to see modest improvement in the  U.S. economy  and ongoing
weakness in Europe.”  In a sign consumers have yet to retrench,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and
TJX Cos. posted May same-store sales that topped analysts’
estimates, helped by warmer weather and lower prices at filling
stations.  Purchases at Target, the second-largest U.S. discount
retailer, climbed 4.4 percent, beating the average projection
for a 3.3 percent gain from analysts surveyed by researcher
Retail Metrics Inc. TJX, the owner of the T.J. Maxx and
Marshalls retail chains, had an 8 percent increase in same-store
sales, topping the 5.1 percent estimate.  Jobless Claims  Last week’s  claims  for jobless benefits were the highest
since 392,000 in the week ended April 21, and exceeded the
median estimate of 370,000 in a Bloomberg News survey. The
number of people on unemployment benefit rolls dropped.  Sandra Pianalto , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Cleveland , said more easing isn’t necessary even though she
predicts the jobless rate probably won’t fall to 6 percent for
about four years.  “Our monetary policy stance is appropriate,” Pianalto
told reporters today after a speech in Cleveland, in which she
predicted growth of “slightly above” 2.5 percent this year.
The Fed has pledged to keep its key  interest rate  near zero at
least through late 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 Schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  