-- JPMorgan ETN Tied to Master-Limited Partnerships Reaches Record
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-05-31T15:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/jpmorgan-etn-tied-to-master-limited-partnerships-reaches-record.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s exchange-
traded note tied to energy companies organized as partnerships
rose to a record number of shares as investors look for higher
yields with  interest rates  reaching record lows.  Shares outstanding of the  JPMorgan Alerian MLP Index ETN (AMJ) 
climbed to 113 million on May 29. The security, the largest U.S.
ETN, has a market capitalization of $4.2 billion, which makes up
almost 24 percent of the entire ETN market. Master limited
partnerships, which trade publicly, typically invest in assets
ranging from pipelines to ships transporting commodities.  Demand for notes tied to MLPs has surged as new
technologies such as hydraulic fracturing increase oil and gas
production, said Ethan Bellamy, a Robert W. Baird & Co. equity
analyst. ETNs tied to MLPs also benefit because they are more
tax efficient than investing directly into the partnerships
since buyers may have to file separate tax returns in each state
a partnership does business, Bellamy said.  “The real simple reason is yields are low everywhere else
and MLPS are still offering, depending on the product, 5 to 7
percent” in distributions, which are like dividends, Bellamy
said in a telephone interview from his office in Denver.  That  growth  may continue since alternative securities that
track MLPs make up about 7 percent of the overall market
capitalization of the partnerships, Bellamy said.  “You can easily see the assets under management in all
these alternative products double or triple from here.”  The JPMorgan ETN tracks a gauge of 50 publicly traded
partnerships, which don’t pay federal income taxes and rely on
assets, such as pipelines, to generate  cash flow  for taxable
payouts to holders. The note matches dividends from the Alerian
MLP Index minus a 0.85 percent management fee, according to a
prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  ETNs are unsecured bank debt backed by their issuer’s
credit, unlike exchange-traded funds, which hold assets. Banks
create and redeem shares of ETNs based on the level of demand
for the securities. That demand typically doesn’t affect the
price since the ETNs track the performance of an index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 