-- JPMorgan’s Zames Said to Unwind CIO Stake in LightSquared
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-05-31T16:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/jpmorgan-s-zames-said-to-unwind-cio-stake-in-lightsquared.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will eventually
divest holdings in LightSquared Inc., the bankrupt wireless
network, and Ebony magazine as new Chief Investment Officer
Matthew Zames unwinds the unit responsible for the investments.  Zames, who’s in charge of cleaning up the chief investment
office’s $2 billion trading loss, told employees yesterday he’s
moving the special investments group out of the  division ,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter. Zames wants
to narrow and refocus the CIO on safer holdings, according to
the person, who asked not to be identified because the changes
weren’t public.  JPMorgan’s  shares have dropped  about 19 percent since the
New York-based company’s May 10 disclosure that a bet on  credit
derivatives  had gone awry, and that the loss could get bigger in
the weeks ahead. Zames was plucked from the investment bank four
days later to replace former CIO Ina Drew at JPMorgan, the
biggest U.S. lender by assets.  The special investments unit, headed by Norma Corio, will
be placed under the company’s corporate umbrella, which includes
the CIO unit, other private-equity investments and corporate-
wide units such as human resources and treasury, the person
said. About 10 people who report to Corio will be shifted to the
corporate division.  Kristin Lemkau, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to
comment. The Financial Times reported the changes yesterday.  Holdings in the special investments group included Ebony
publisher Johnson Publishing Co. and a $150 million stake in
LightSquared, which filed for  bankruptcy protection  on May 14.
The unit also is one of the shareholders in a fund that agreed
to provide capital to Technicolor SA, the money-losing French
maker of film technologies where Corio is listed as a nominee
for the board of directors at a shareholder meeting scheduled
for June 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  