-- Kaye Scholer, Hogan Lovells, Milberg, Baker: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-05-31T10:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/kaye-scholer-hogan-lovells-baker-mckenzie-business-of-law.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  isn’t liable for the
 breast-cancer  death of a woman who died after taking menopause
drugs made by the company’s units, a  Connecticut  jury ruled in a
victory for defense lawyers at Kaye Scholer LLP, Nelson Mullins
Riley & Scarborough LLP and Snell & Wilmer LLP.  Jurors in federal court in Bridgeport deliberated about
five hours over two days before finding Pfizer’s Wyeth unit
provided proper warnings about the health risks of its Prempro
hormone-replacement pill to Lynn Moss. The 62-year-old nurse
died in December 2006 “after a protracted battle with breast
cancer,” according to court filings.  Kaye Scholer product liability partners Pamela Yates and
Andrew Solow served as co-trial counsel for Wyeth, along with
David Dukes of Nelson Mullins and Kelly Evans of Snell & Wilmer.
Yates and Dukes were co-lead trial counsel, Kaye Scholer said.  Nelson Mullins partners Mark Jones, Michael Hogue, Amanda
Witt and Eric Paine also participated.  Other firms from Pfizer’s Legal Alliance, including DLA
Piper LLP and Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP, assisted
the trial team and are involved in the overall defense of
Hormone Therapy litigation, Kaye Scholer said in a statement.  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms such as hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer.
Wyeth’s sales of the medicines, which are still on the market,
topped $2 billion before the release of the  Women’s Health
Initiative , a National Institutes of Health-sponsored study.  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined  Premarin ,
Wyeth’s estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden  Provera , made
by Pfizer’s Upjohn unit, to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth
combined the two hormones in its  Prempro  pill.  “There is a great deal of evidence that was excluded from
this trial that we believe hampered the jury’s ability to
appropriately consider all of the issues,” Neal Moskow, one of
the attorneys for Moss’s family, said in the statement.  In addition to Moskow, of  Ury & Moskow LLC,  the plaintiffs
were represented by Greg Bubalo and Steven Rotman of  Bubalo
Rotman Plc .  Pfizer’s Wyeth and Upjohn units have now won 10 of 21
Prempro cases decided by juries since trials began in 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The New York-based drugmaker got some of the verdicts
against it thrown out after trial or had the awards reduced. It
resolved some of the verdicts through settlements, while other
decisions are on appeal. Pfizer also has had cases thrown out
before trial and settled others.  Pfizer announced in May 2011 it had settled a third of the
pending Prempro cases and had set aside $772 million to help
resolve the claims.  The Moss case is Lynn Gardner Moss and Kenneth P. Moss v.
Wyeth, 04-cv-1511, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut
(Bridgeport).  For more, click here.  News  Former U.K. Madoff Trustee Lawyer Gets Three-Year Sentence  A  London  lawyer who advised the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s assets was sentenced to three years in jail by a U.K.
court for fraudulently claiming 1.27 million pounds ($2 million)
in expenses from his law firm,  Hogan Lovells  LLP.  Christopher Grierson, a former partner at the firm who
advised on asset-tracing and fraud, admitted to making 57 fake
travel claims, the Crown Prosecution Service said in March.  “It was well planned, it was sophisticated. It was a
serious breach of trust,” Judge John Price said yesterday at a
hearing in London. “But it is right to say that you have
suffered from mental illness.”  Price said Grierson would serve half of his sentence.
Grierson was fired from the law firm in May 2011 and
subsequently repaid the money to Hogan Lovells.  Grierson’s lawyer, Mark Ellison, asked the judge to take
into account that his client suffered from a long-standing
mental illness.  Peter Binning, another lawyer for Grierson, said the
sentence can’t be appealed.  Irving Picard , the U.S. Bankruptcy Court-appointed trustee
liquidating the accounts of Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, hired Grierson in 2009 to help recover Madoff
assets in Europe.  Milberg Seeks to Withdraw as Ceglia Law Firm in Facebook Lawsuit  Milberg LLP is seeking to withdraw from  Paul Ceglia ’s
lawsuit claiming half the  Facebook Inc. (FB)  holdings of  Mark Zuckerberg , the social network’s co-founder and chief executive
officer.  Sanford Dumain, chairman of Milberg’s executive committee
and the lead lawyer on the firm’s team representing Ceglia,
yesterday filed a request in federal court in Buffalo,  New York ,
to quit as Ceglia’s counsel. The move, which must be approved by
the judge overseeing the case, comes less than three months
after Milberg began its work for Ceglia.  Dumain filed the request on behalf of two other Milberg
lawyers and two lawyers from firms in upstate New York that also
represent Ceglia. Dumain said in the filing that he is
submitting a statement of his reasons to the court for its
private review.  Since Ceglia filed the case less than two years ago, four
law firms have left after notifying the court they represented
him. In June 2011, DLA Piper LLP, one of the world’s biggest law
firms with 4,200 lawyers in 31 countries, and Buffalo’s Lippes
Mathias Wexler Friedman LLP withdrew from representing Ceglia
after less than three months on the job.  Two other firms, Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman LLP in
New York and Chicago’s Edelson McGuire LLC left after working on
the case outside court, according to papers filed in the suit.  Daniel Fleshler, a spokesman for New York-based Milberg,
declined to comment on the request to withdraw.  Dean Boland, a Lakewood, Ohio, attorney who continues to
represent Ceglia, said Milberg’s planned departure stems from
differences over strategy among the lawyers. Also remaining on
Ceglia’s team is Paul Argentieri, the Hornell, New York, lawyer
who filed the original complaint in the case in June 2010.  In the suit, Ceglia claims that a 2003 contract he signed
with Zuckerberg made them partners in the start of Facebook, now
the world’s biggest social network.  Menlo Park , California-based
Facebook has called Ceglia’s claim a fraud.  “The revolving door of lawyers is yet additional evidence
that this abusive lawsuit is a hoax and a fraud,”  Orin Snyder ,
who represents Facebook and Zuckerberg in the case, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  Dewey Unsecured Creditors May Find Cupboard Is Bare of Cash  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP’s unsecured creditors, meeting
yesterday in Manhattan to form a committee to represent their
interests, may find the defunct law firm has nothing left to pay
them.  Dewey’s Memorial Day bankruptcy filing disclosed $225
million of secured loans from banks and bondholders to be paid
mostly from $255 million of bills to the defunct law firm’s
clients that analysts value at as little as 40 cents on the
dollar.  Secured creditors by law must be paid in full before
unsecured creditors get anything.  Topping a list of Dewey’s unsecured creditors is the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., claiming $80 million for
underfunded pensions. Second is Dewey’s landlord, Paramount
Group, claiming $3.8 million for property taxes and May rent,
followed by Thomson Reuters Corp., owed $2.4 million for legal
research.  Former Dewey partners, including those with an estimated
$100 million of guarantees, can rank equal to, or below trade
creditors under bankruptcy law.  “Dewey is essentially a zero-asset bankruptcy for the
unsecureds,” said Ed Reeser, a former managing partner for the
Los Angeles office of Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal LLP who’s
now a consultant. “There is nothing there for them to get.
There is going to be terrible pain worked on many good people.”  Vendor claims against Dewey, also known as trade paper,
were recently quoted at 5 cents to 8 cents on the dollar, said
 Joseph Sarachek , managing director of claims trading at CRT
Capital Group LLC, which buys and sells distressed debt
including Dewey’s.  The category includes a unit of ABM Industries, which
provided janitorial services at Dewey’s offices at 1301 Avenue
of the Americas in New York and sued the firm for about $300,000
in unpaid bills.  Dewey’s secured bonds, which were privately placed and
trade sparsely, were quoted at 45 cents to 55 cents on the
dollar this month, CRT said.  Dewey unwound fast this year as at least 250 of its 304
partners quit to join rivals. Now it faces a long fight to
collect money for secured lenders led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
from clients reluctant to pay bills and partners who might have
carried off some of the firm’s business to rivals as they joined
new firms.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Firm News  Baker & McKenzie Opens South African Office With Dewey Lawyers  Baker & McKenzie LLP is starting a Johannesburg office,
with 16 lawyers as well as staff from Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP South
 Africa .  The new office is led by partners Wildu du Plessis, banking
and finance; Scott Brodsky, energy and projects; Chris Moraitis,
infrastructure and finance; and, Morne van der Merwe, a mergers
and acquisition lawyer focused on the  mining industry , the firm
said in a statement.  Initially, the office will focus on energy, mining and
infrastructure, project finance, banking,  capital markets ,
securitization, mergers and acquisitions and private equity.  “As the continent’s largest economy and biggest recipient
of foreign direct investment, South Africa is the linchpin for
our expansion plans for the continent,” Eduardo Leite, chairman
of Baker & McKenzie’s executive committee, said in a statement.  Baker & McKenzie’s first office in Africa, in Cairo, was
established in 1985. Lawyers there work in the energy and
natural resources markets and advise clients on transactions in
Africa including in the energy, natural resources, health care,
IT and telecommunications, retail and other sectors.  This is Baker & McKenzie’s third office opening in the past
12 months, following Istanbul and Doha, Qatar. The firm has 70
offices in 43 countries around the world.  Corporate Partner Levinson to Manage Baker Botts in Moscow  Maxim Levinson has been named partner in charge of the
Baker Botts LLP’s Moscow office as of July 1, the firm said in a
statement.  Levinson concentrates on mergers, acquisitions and
corporate restructurings. He also has experience in structuring,
drafting and negotiating international financing transactions,
including acquisition and project finance transactions and
financings guaranteed by export credit agencies. He has advised
on matters for clients such as Gazprombank, Novatek, SUEK, EBRD
and IFC, the firm said.  “Maxim has extensive experience in the oil and gas, power
and financial sectors with an exceptional reputation in the
Russian market,” said Baker Botts’ managing partner Andrew M. Baker. “His appointment aligns perfectly with our strategic
vision for Moscow.”  Levinson, who joined Baker Botts in 2008 as a corporate
partner, will succeed Steve Wardlaw. Wardlaw will divide his
time between the Moscow and London offices, working on European
and Central Asian energy matters.  The Moscow office opened in 1993. Since then, it has grown
to almost 30 lawyers that provide services to energy industry
clients as well as aviation, banking, corporate, finance,
technology, consumer products, mining, power and real estate
companies, the firm said.  Baker Botts is an international law firm with more than 725
lawyers and 13 offices around the world.  Moves  Federal Trade Commission Trial Lawyer Joins Simpson Thacher  Matt Reilly, former assistant director of the Federal Trade
Commission, will join Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP’s antitrust
practice as a partner in the Washington office.  Reilly joins the firm after 13 years in the government,
litigating antitrust matters. He was the lead litigator on the
Whole Food-Wild Oats and CSL-Talecris cases.  In 2009,  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM) , the largest natural-food
grocer, agreed to sell 32 natural and organic supermarkets to
settle a fight with U.S. antitrust enforcers over its 2007
takeover of Wild Oats Markets Inc.  CSL Ltd. (CSL) ’s $3.1 billion failed bid for Talecris
Biotherapeutics Holdings Corp., would have helped CSL overtake
 Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  as the leader in the $15 billion
global market for blood plasma-derived medical treatments.  From 2007 until recently, Reilly served as the head of the
FTC’s Mergers IV division, where he led investigations,
including those involving hospitals, retail and consumer
products.  “During Matt’s tenure at the FTC, he clearly established
himself as an outstanding litigator and our clients globally
will benefit greatly from his talent and insight,” Kevin Arquit, head of the firm’s antitrust practice said in a
statement.  Simpson Thacher has more than 850 lawyers in the U.S.,
Europe, Asia and  South America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 