-- Kenyan Military Says It Seizes Somali Towns of Afmadow, Hayo
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-05-31T08:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/kenyan-military-says-it-seizes-somali-towns-of-afmadow-hayo-1-.html
Kenya ’s military seized the Somali
towns of Afmadow and Hayo as it prepared to capture the port
city of Kismayo from al-Qaeda-linked militants, spokesman
Emmanuel Chirchir said.  At least 17 suspected members of the al-Shabaab militia
were killed in the attacks, Chirchir said in a statement on his
Twitter account. Al-Shabaab denied it lost ground.  The Kenyan Defence Forces’ “focus is on Kismayo as other
Amisom forces roll down southward,” Chirchir said. “Al-
Shabaab’s reign in Kismayo will soon be interred.”  The capture of the two towns brings more territory under
government control after African Union-backed Somali soldiers
secured a route linking Afgoye, 29 kilometers (18 miles)
northwest of Mogadishu, with the capital city last week. Rebels
withdrew from Mogadishu in August following advances by the
forces.  Kenya’s military began an incursion into southern  Somalia 
in October to drive out al-Shabaab, which has waged a five-year
insurgency against the United Nations-backed administration of
President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed. Kenya began the assault to
secure its borders after blaming the rebel group for the murder
of a British tourist at a luxury resort and the abduction of at
least four foreign holidaymakers and aid workers in Kenya.  The UN agreed in February to increase the number of African
Union peacekeepers in Somalia to 17,731, from 12,000, absorbing
the Kenyan troops, and increasing resources.  Naval Assault  At least six al-Shabaab fighters were “neutralized” in
the battles for Afmadow and Hayo yesterday, while 11 more were
killed when “long-range naval guns” were used to attack a
suspected militant camp in Kismayo, Chirchir said. Kismayo is a
strategic target for the Kenyan forces because it is a key
supply route for al-Shabaab and a source of the taxes the group
collects.  “The so-called Kenyan troops are always dreaming to
capture Afmadow but our mujahedeen forces chased them away
several times and aborted their intention to capture it,”
Sheikh Abdiasis Abu Mus’ab, an al-Shabaab spokesman, said
yesterday on Radio Andulus, a broadcaster controlled by the
militia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  