-- East Africa Nations Plan at Least $800 Million Bond Sales
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-05-31T15:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/kenya-rwanda-plan-800-million-bond-sales-for-projects.html
Rwanda  and Kenya plan to raise a
combined $800 million to finance spending on infrastructure that
will boost their economies, joining Uganda and Tanzania as they
consider selling Eurobonds.  Rwanda plans to sell $300 million of Eurobonds in its first
global debt offering next year, Finance Minister John Rwangombwa
said in an interview yesterday in Arusha, Tanzania, where he is
attending the  African Development Bank ’s annual meeting. Kenya,
which has the region’s biggest economy, may sell a sovereign
bond of a minimum of $500 million in about a year’s time to help
repay debt and finance infrastructure, Finance Minister Robinson Githae said in a separate interview.  “Some banks have asked us to consider doing it earlier,
but our target is still 2013,” Rwangombwa said.  African countries including Angola, Tanzania and Zambia are
considering turning to global  capital markets  to fund projects.
Rwanda, which makes most of its foreign currency from tourism
and coffee exports, wants to finance spending on power plants
and roads, Rwangombwa said in May 2011. Kenya in April revived
plans to sell more than $500 million of Eurobonds, which will be
used to repay a syndicated loan.  “We are working on documentation for the bond and will
press the button when we are ready,” Githae said. “We,
however, target between now and one year’s time.”  Standard & Poor’s credit assessment for Kenya is B+, the
company’s fourth-highest non-investment-grade level, with Rwanda
rated one step lower at B.  Nigeria, Ghana Yields  Nigeria , Africa’s biggest oil producer whose rating matches
Kenya and  Uganda ’s at S&P, sold $500 million of 6.75 percent
Eurobonds in January last year. The yield on the debt, which
matures in 2021, has fallen 35 basis points, or 0.35 percentage
point, to 5.797 percent this year.  Yields on Ghana’s $750 million Eurobonds due 2017, rated
the same as Rwanda at S&P, have declined 55 basis points this
year to 6.076 percent.  “Kenya might attract more interest because it’s a country
that’s better known than Rwanda and there’s more international
interest in their local  currency market , obviously in their
equity market, so it would be more familiar,”  Stuart Culverhouse , chief economist at investment bank Exotix Ltd.,
said by phone from London today. “On both counts there would be
interest and the terms would be relatively favorable.”  Uganda, where  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and its partners have found
2.5 billion barrels of crude, plans to sell its first dollar-
denominated debt in the next two to three years to finance
“massive” projects, Deputy Treasury Secretary Keith Muhakanizi
said in an interview on May 29.  Tanzania Plans  Tanzania plans to get a  credit rating  and sell its first
Eurobond in 12 months, central bank Governor Benno Ndulu said
today. The government has appointed Citigroup Inc. as an
advisor, which told the country it should issue at least $500
million, he said.  The planned sales “will also encourage further issuance
and serve as a benchmark for other issuance in the region,”
Olivier Vojetta, the London-based head of research at FM Capital
Partners Ltd., said in an e-mailed reply to questions.  Growth in Rwanda, which is rebuilding its economy after a
genocide in 1994 that left 800,000 people dead, is forecast to
slow to 7.7 percent this year from 8.6 percent in 2011, the
 Finance Ministry  said on May 21.  Kenya lowered its 2012 economic growth forecast to 3.5
percent to 4.5 percent on May 15, from a previous projection of
5.2 percent, citing the possibility of lower foreign investment
before elections next year and higher  oil prices .  ‘Well Received’  “Rwanda is also likely to be well received as the economy
has performed well relative to regional peers since the civil
war in the country ended,” said Vojetta. “Of course, ongoing
security crisis in parts of  Democratic Republic  of Congo has
potential negative effect on Rwanda.”  Fighting in eastern Congo has displaced almost 100,000
people since last month, with 9,000 having taken refuge in
Rwanda, the  United Nations  said May 23. Congo’s army is battling
a renegade group of soldiers in the region who have links to
General Bosco Ntaganda, who is wanted for  war crimes  by the
 International Criminal Court .  Kenya’s shilling snapped two days of declines against the
dollar, rising 0.6 percent to 86.20 by 6:03 p.m. in Nairobi, the
capital. Rwanda’s franc was unchanged at 609.3 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Arusha via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  