-- N.J. Senators Reject Christie’s Supreme Court Nominee
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-05-31T22:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/n-j-senate-panel-rejects-christie-supreme-court-nominee-harris.html
New Jersey Democrats rejected
Governor  Chris Christie ’s second straight Supreme Court
candidate, citing concern about the nominee’s lack of courtroom
experience and his intent to recuse himself from same-sex
marriage issues.  Bruce Harris , 61, a finance attorney and Republican mayor
of Chatham, would have been the state’s first openly gay justice
and the third black to serve on the court. His nomination was
rejected 7-6 by the Senate Judiciary Committee.  “What this was was a political assassination -- they
wanted to wipe this guy out, so they did,” Christie said in his
office following the vote. “You saw a highly qualified nominee
sacrificed for partisan politics. This time was just a different
excuse to achieve the desired end.”  Harris, an advocate of same-sex marriage, said he would
remove himself from hearing the issue if it came before the
court. Democrats said that would take Harris out of one of the
most significant matters pending in the legal system. A gay-
rights group is challenging New Jersey’s civil-unions law,
saying it doesn’t provide the same benefits and protections as
marriage.  “You made a political decision on a constitutional issue
in order to get the job,” said Senator Nia Gill, a black
Democrat from Montclair, referring to his plan to recuse himself
on the matter. “It flies in the face of the independence of the
court.”  Second Defeat  The defeat is the second time in modern history a
governor’s choice for the state  Supreme Court  has been rejected.
Both have occurred under Christie.  Steven Goldstein, chair of the gay-rights group Garden
State Equality, said in a statement that he didn’t fault any
senator who voted against Harris and called his answers on why
he would recuse himself “nonsensical.”  Gill and other Democrats on the committee said a move by
Harris to abstain on same-sex marriage issues would be akin to
Thurgood Marshall, the first black justice on the U.S. Supreme
Court, opting not to hear cases involving civil rights or a
female justice sitting out issues involving abortion or  birth
control .  “This move was not political calculus,” Harris told the
panel. “I decided it on my own.”  Work Experience  Senator Raymond Lesniak, a Democrat and partner in a
Parsippany-based  law firm , said approving the nominee would call
into question the independence of the court.  Democrats also questioned Harris about his professional
experience. He said that while he has worked on $8 billion of
corporate transactions, he has never argued a case in court.  “Surely he’s a wonderful individual and he has a great
background,” said Senator  Paul Sarlo , a Democrat from Wood-
Ridge who sits on the panel. “But clearly he did not do
anything to help convince this committee that he has the
experience to do this.”  The panel in March rejected Christie’s nomination of
Phillip Kwon after Democrats questioned a $160,000 settlement of
U.S. government allegations that family members sought to avoid
financial-reporting requirements tied to their business. Kwon
would have been the first Asian-American on the court and the
first immigrant.  ‘Ticking Boxes’  “Having already suffered the ignominy of being the first
modern governor to lose a nominee, he’s now lost two,”  Patrick Murray , a pollster who teaches political science at  Monmouth
University  in  West Long Branch , said in an interview. “There
was a perception that Christie was ticking boxes when he made
the Harris selection.”  The judiciary panel has eight Democrats and five
Republicans. One Democrat, Senator Brian Stack, voted for
Harris, as did all the Republicans.  Nicholas Scutari, a Democrat who chairs the Judiciary
Committee, said his party wants to see Christie maintain both
political and racial balance on the court. Democrats and
Christie have argued over his characterization of Justice Jaynee LaVecchia as an independent.  Christie, who said the current two vacancies and the
impasse are harming the court, said if Harris had been confirmed
the partisan balance on the court would have been three
Republicans, two Democrats and two independents. He said he’ll
only nominate Republicans until his party controls four of the
seven seats.  ‘Proud American’  Republicans praised Harris for his work on complex
financial transactions, including structured loans and bond
deals that they said involved a specialized set of skills that
would benefit the Supreme Court.  “I don’t see a black man, I don’t see a gay man, I see a
proud American who has done incredible things with his life,”
said Senator Kevin O’Toole, a Cedar Grove Republican and lawyer.
He voted for Harris.  Christie, a former U.S. attorney for  New Jersey , was
criticized by Democrats after he denied reappointment to  John
Wallace , the second black justice, in 2010. That sparked a
standoff that lasted a year and delayed hearings on Anne Murray Patterson, Christie’s Republican nominee. That feud ended when
Christie and Sweeney agreed to let Patterson replace Justice
Roberto Rivera Soto, who retired in September.  Two Vacancies  Harris would have filled one of two vacancies created by
Christie’s rejection of Wallace and the retirement of Justice
Virginia Long, who stepped down at the mandatory age of 70.  Harris most recently worked at Greenberg Traurig LLP, where
he focused on public finance and corporate lending. He holds
degrees from  Amherst College , Boston University School of
Management and Yale Law School.  The governor, soon after taking office in January 2010,
said he wanted to “turn the court away from its history of
using legal precedent to set social and tax policies in our
state -- a role which belongs squarely with the legislative and
executive branches.”  Christie has criticized the high court for “legislating
from the bench.” He has cited examples such as the Abbott v.
Burke school-funding cases and Mount Laurel affordable-housing
rulings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  