-- N.Y. Mets Settlement With Madoff Trustee Wins Court Approval
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-31T21:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/n-y-mets-settlement-with-madoff-trustee-wins-court-approval-1-.html
A $162 million settlement between the
owners of the  New York  Mets baseball team and the liquidator of
 Bernard Madoff ’s firm won court approval.  U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff ruled today in New York
on the accord. It was announced March 20, the day a trial was to
start over whether the Mets owners acted in bad faith when they
withdrew money from Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Under the settlement, with  Fred Wilpon , Saul Katz and
dozens of related parties, the Mets owners owe the Madoff estate
$162 million in phony profits from the fraud. The Wilpon and
Katz payments may be offset by their claims to have suffered
$178 million in losses.  In court papers supporting the settlement last month,
former New York governor  Mario Cuomo , a court-appointed mediator
in the case, told Rakoff he believes the settlement “is
reasonable, fair, equitable” and in the best interests of
former Madoff customers.  As part of the agreement, the liquidator,  Irving Picard ,
dropped his claim that the Mets owners blinded themselves to
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme because it benefited their businesses.
Picard also gave up his demand that the Wilpon group return
principal they invested with Madoff and then withdrew.  Case Resolved  The settlement resolves a case in which Picard had sought
$1 billion from the Mets owners for the benefit of former Madoff
customers. In a series of rulings, Rakoff narrowed to $386
million the amount Picard could try to recover.  The main question for the trial was to have been whether
the owners acted in bad faith when they withdrew $303 million of
their own money from Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities,
the brokerage Madoff used to run his swindle.  The settlement amount is equal to all of the profit
withdrawn by the Wilpon group in the six years before Madoff’s
December 2008 arrest, Picard said. Rakoff had ruled that Picard
could claim only two years’ profit, as much as $83 million.  Madoff’s  Ponzi scheme  cost investors an estimated $20
billion in principal, according to Picard.  Madoff, 74, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. He’s
serving a 150-year sentence in federal prison in  North Carolina .  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  