-- New Zealand Terms of Trade Fall Further on Stronger Currency
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-05-31T23:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/new-zealand-terms-of-trade-fall-further-on-stronger-currency.html
New Zealand ’s terms of trade index
fell for a third quarter as a stronger currency and weak global
markets curbed returns from dairy, meat and aluminum exports.  The index, which measures the price of exports relative to
imports, dropped 2.3 percent from the fourth quarter, when it
fell 1.4 percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said in a statement in
Wellington today. Export prices decreased 3.8 percent while
import prices declined 1.5 percent.  New Zealand’s terms of trade are retreating from a 37-year
high in the second quarter last year amid falling returns from
exports, which make up 30 percent of the economy. Weak growth
and tame inflation are reasons most economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News predict the central bank will hold its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record-low 2.5 percent until next year.  “The combination of a stronger  New Zealand dollar  and
weaker global prices for soft commodities appear to have dragged
the export index down,” Ben Jarman, economist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in Sydney, said in a May 28 report. He expects no change
in borrowing costs until the first quarter next year.  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed, buying 75.27 U.S.
cents at 10:47 a.m. in Wellington. The terms of trade decline
was less than the median 2.8 percent drop expected in a
Bloomberg News survey of six economists.  In the first quarter, a trade-weighted measure of the New
Zealand dollar calculated by the  Reserve Bank  rose 5.5 percent
from the fourth quarter, the statistics agency said.  Export prices were led lower by dairy, meat and aluminum,
today’s report showed. Butter prices fell 11 percent, cheese
dropped 9.5 percent and meat declined 3.6 percent. The aluminum
price index was the lowest since the second quarter of 2009.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s biggest dairy
exporter, last month cut its forecast payment to milk suppliers
for the year ended May 31, and said the 2012-13 payment would be
even lower, because of weaker global prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  