-- New Zealand Business Confidence Falls for First Time This Year
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-05-31T02:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/new-zealand-business-confidence-falls-for-first-time-this-year.html
New Zealand  business confidence fell
for the first time this year amid concerns that a European
crisis will slow global demand and curb exports, according to an
ANZ National Bank Ltd. survey.  A net 27.1 percent of companies polled expect the economy
will improve in the next 12 months, down from 35.8 percent in
April, ANZ National said in an e-mailed report. The net figures
subtract pessimists from optimists.  The  gauge  declined for the first time since December as
export intentions fell to a three-year low as  Europe ’s debt
turmoil weighs on commodity prices and returns from overseas
sales, which make up 30 percent of the New Zealand economy. The
change in mood adds to the case for the central bank to keep
 interest rates  unchanged until next year.  “This is not the stuff of which an export-led recovery is
made,” ANZ National’s Wellington-based Chief Economist  Cameron Bagrie  said in the statement.  New Zealand’s dollar has dropped 7.9 percent in the past
month, and that may boost sentiment in June, Bagrie said. A
strong currency helped slow exports this year.  The currency bought 75.12 U.S. cents at 1:12 p.m. in
Wellington from 81.85 cents on April 30.  A second gauge of sales and profits expectations fell to
34.9 percent from 36.1 percent in April. That’s a level
consistent with businesses “getting on with it,” Bagrie said.  A net 14.9 percent of the 415 companies surveyed expect
exports to rise, down from 22.9 percent last month, the report
showed. Expectations around profits and hiring were little
changed from April, while fewer firms expect to increase
investment, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  