-- New Orleans Takes No. 1 NBA Draft Spot, Brooklyn Nets Lose Pick
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/new-orleans-wins-right-to-no-1-nba-draft-pick-charlotte-second.html
The new owner of the  New Orleans
Hornets  won the chance to select the  University of Kentucky ’s
 Anthony Davis  with the No. 1 pick in next month’s  National
Basketball Association  draft.  The Hornets, who tied for the NBA’s third-worst record of
21-45 this season and were sold by the league to Tom Benson in
April, won the league’s draft lottery last night in New York to
claim the top selection.  The  Charlotte  Bobcats, who went 7-59 for the worst record
in NBA history, captured the second pick. The  Washington Wizards 
took spot No. 3. By capturing the sixth spot, the Brooklyn Nets
lost their first-round selection.  “I feel real blessed to be in this position,” Hornets
coach Monty Williams said in a conference call with reporters.
”Getting the No. 1 pick gives you the chance to make the right
choice, adding a player that could be a game-changer for us.”  By failing to land one of the top three spots, the Nets
lost their No. 6 pick to the  Portland Trail Blazers  as part of
the March trade in which they acquired forward Gerald Wallace.  The Nets, who tied with Sacramento for the fifth-worst
record in the NBA this season at 22-44, had a clause in the deal
that would have allowed them to retain their first-round pick if
it had been among the top three.  That leaves the Nets without a draft slot until fourth from
last in the second round.  The NBA purchased the Hornets from George Shinn in December
2010 and announced April 13 that the team had been sold to
Benson, owner of the National Football League’s New Orleans
Saints.  Chris Paul Trade  During the period of NBA ownership, league Commissioner
David Stern vetoed a trade that would have sent point guard
 Chris Paul  from the Hornets to the  Los Angeles Lakers  and later
approved Paul’s trade to the  Los Angeles Clippers .  Now they have a chance to select Davis, who led Kentucky to
the national championship in  New Orleans  as a freshman this
season and was the Associated Press college player of the year.  “It’s like karma, I won a national championship there,”
Davis said in a television interview. “I can’t wait to get down
there, if I get drafted No. 1.”  Unless there are trades before the June 28 draft, the rest
of the order will have Cleveland selecting fourth, followed by
Sacramento and Portland.  Golden State will be seventh, Toronto eighth, Detroit ninth
and New Orleans 10th. Portland will select 11th, followed by
Milwaukee, Phoenix and Houston.  The draft lottery is held after each season among the 14
teams that did not make the playoffs. There were 13 teams
participating this year because the Hornets held their own spot
and acquired another in a trade with Minnesota.  The 16 NBA teams that made the playoffs will select after
that, from worst regular-season record to best.  The  New York  Knicks, who traded away their first-round
selection as part of the 2010 acquisition of Tracy McGrady, will
not pick until No. 48 -- midway through the second round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  