-- Nike’s Plan to Sell Umbro Continues Mixed Record on Deals
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-05-31T20:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/nike-s-plan-to-sell-umbro-continues-mixed-record-on-deals.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
athletic-shoe maker, is selling the Umbro and Cole Haan brands
after failing to turn the acquisitions into growth machines.  The transactions are expected to be completed within a
year, the Beaverton, Oregon-based company said today in a
statement. Nike acquired Umbro, the U.K.-based soccer-apparel
and footwear brand, in 2008 for $567 million.  Nike, led by Chief Executive Officer Mark Parker, is
selling Umbro and Cole Haan to focus on its biggest brands.
Umbro’s sales in the fiscal year ended May 31, 2011, were little
changed at $224 million, and Nike wrote down the value of the
unit by $240.7 million in 2009. Umbro wasn’t profitable,
according to Chris Svezia, an analyst for Susquehanna Financial
Group in  New York .  “They really haven’t done the best job on execution with
acquisitions,” Svezia said today in a telephone interview.
“Nike bought Umbro at the peak of the market, they’ve already
taken a writedown, it’s not a profitable business, so why bother
keep throwing money at it? They are looking to cut their losses
and move on.”  Nike  declined  0.1 percent to $108.18 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 12 percent this year.  The maker of Air Jordans also said today it will sell Cole
Haan, a chain of dress-shoe stores acquired in 1988. While that
unit increased revenue 12 percent to $518 million in 2011, sales
were little changed in the quarter ended Feb. 29 as the
company’s total sales advanced 15 percent. Cole Haan and Umbro
both posted net losses in the quarter, according to Eric Tracy,
an analyst for Janney Montgomery Scott in  Washington .  Selling Other Assets  Nike’s plan to sell Cole Haan and Umbro continues what has
been subpar performance in acquisitions, Svezia said. Nike sold
the Starter apparel brand in 2007 to  Iconix Brand Group Inc. (ICON)  for
$60 million as it underperformed other parts of Nike, three
years after purchasing the label for $43 million.  The company acquired Canstar Sports Inc., maker of the
popular Bauer hockey brand, in 1995 for $395 million. After
sluggish growth, it sold Bauer in 2008 to a private-equity firm,
Kohlberg & Co., for $200 million. Kohlberg boosted sales, added
a few small acquisitions and cashed out its investment in March
2011 with an initial public offering.  The one bright spot has been Converse, which grew sales 15
percent to $1.12 billion in 2011. Nike bought Converse in 2003
for $331 million.  Soccer Deal  Umbro appeared to be a good fit for Nike because it gave it
more customers in  Europe  as it tried to reach its goal of
surpassing  Adidas AG (ADS)  as the world’s largest soccer company.
Umbro also had a long-standing deal with the  England  national
soccer team to supply its uniforms. In a statement announcing
the deal, Parker touted the new relationship as a “dynamic
alignment” that would make Nike the world leader in soccer.  The Umbro acquisition took a wrong turn, about a month
after it was announced, when the England national soccer team
failed to qualify for the 2008 European Championships finals,
causing a decline in sales. Umbro has the sponsorship through
2018. Nike declined to comment on the future of its relationship
with England. Nike has moved the sponsorship deal with
 Manchester City , champion of the English Premier League, from
Umbro to the parent company, beginning in 2013.  From there, Nike never figured out how to make Umbro into
more than a middle-tier brand, according to  Matt Powell , an
analyst for  SportsOneSource  in Scarborough,  Maine . Retailers
continued to discount its offerings, which made it difficult to
make it profitable. Umbro and Nike also competed against each
other because they had many overlapping products, he said.  ’Problematic’  “It’s been problematic from the very first day,” Powell
said in a telephone interview.  Nike declined to make an executive available for an
interview. In today’s statement, Parker said selling Umbro and
Cole Haan “will allow us to focus our resources on the highest-
potential opportunities for Nike.”  The two units combined to account for 3.6 percent of Nike’s
$20.9 billion revenue in 2011.  “It’s smart for a brand to pare out the things that don’t
work and devote more energy to the things that do,” Powell
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  