-- Nikolic Sworn in as Serb President, Pushes for Cabinet Talks
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-05-31T12:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/nikolic-sworn-in-as-serb-president-pushes-for-new-cabinet-talks.html
Tomislav Nikolic , sworn in on his
first day as Serbian president, bypassed his own party in urging
political leaders to quickly form a government and avert a
looming debt crisis.  Parliament met for the first time today in Belgrade since
Nikolic’s  Progressive party  won 73 seats in the 250-seat
parliament, in May 6 general elections, ahead of the Democratic
Party of former President  Boris Tadic . Neither party has the
support to form a majority and the two have ruled out governing
together. Nikolic turned to Tadic, whom he beat in a May 20
presidential runoff vote, to find a workable coalition and have
a prime minister designate by June 4, or his party will step in.  The 60-year-old Nikolic, whose party ran on a platform of
closer ties to  Russia , needs to balance economic austerity with
social protections, and the former Yugoslav republic’s drive to
join the European Union with nationalists’ rejection of
independence for the breakaway province of  Kosovo .  “I want  Serbia  to become a full-fledged European Union
member and maintain the sovereignty and territorial integrity of
Serbia, including Kosovo,” Nikolic said in Parliament.  Relations with Kosovo, which unilaterally declared
independence in 2008 and has been recognized by 90 of 193 United
Nations members and 22 of 27 EU members, will dominate talks
when he meets EU officials on June 14 in Brussels, his first
official trip as head of state.  Statesmanship Needed  The president “will require a high sense of statesmanship
to overcome the more difficult challenges,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  and European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said
in a joint statement in Brussels on May 21. The bloc called on
Nikolic, a former cemetery manager, to undertake a “visible and
sustainable improvement” in ties with Kosovo in order to
advance Serbia’s membership bid.  Serbia became an EU candidate on March 1 after Tadic, 54,
pushed the country to fulfill conditions including the capture
and transfer of  Radovan Karadzic , Ratko Mladic and  Goran Hadzic ,
the three most-wanted war-crimes suspects from the civil wars
that accompanied the breakup of the former  Yugoslavia , to the
Hague-based International Criminal Tribunal for the Former
Yugoslavia.  At home, Nikolic wants to speed up the process that will
result in a new government to prevent Serbia from plunging into
a debt crisis amid a deteriorating economy.  Seeking Majority  Tadic’s Democratic Party is working with the third-ranked
Socialists, which was once led by former Serbian strongman
 Slobodan Milosevic , to find 126 lawmakers to form the new
Cabinet.  The new government is needed to resume talks with the
 International Monetary Fund , which froze a $1.3 billion
precautionary loan program to the Balkan country in February as
it became clear Serbia would slip on agreed fiscal targets.  The deficit expanded to 80 billion dinars ($846 million) in
the first five months of the year, to between 7 percent and 8
percent of gross domestic product, while public debt approached
50 percent of GDP, the country’s Fiscal Council said on May 30.  It also warned Serbia is approaching a public-debt crisis
and the past government’s fiscal expansion was to blame for the
dinar’s extended declines. The currency weakened 0.6 percent
today to trade at 117.3055 to the euro at 11:22 a.m. in
Belgrade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Austerity Moves  Whoever emerges to lead Serbia’s government will need to
cut spending, raise taxes and freeze public wages and pensions
to stop deeper deficits and debts, increase public investment to
jump-start the economy, which contracted 1.3 percent in the
first three months, and keep a lid on unemployment, at 24.4
percent in 2011.  Tadic got his party’s support on May 30 to lead coalition
talks with the Socialists, an alliance that gives them 111
seats, and an as-yet-decided third partner.  “The  Democratic Party  will do its best to gather a
majority in parliament,” said Tadic. “We are ready to take
responsibility” even as “that implies risks because we are in
the midst of the second wave of the economic crisis and it won’t
be easy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  