-- Nomura Top Manager Pay Rises 79% on Deferred Outlays
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-06-02T01:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/nomura-raises-top-executives-pay-79-even-as-profit-declines.html
(Corrects to clarify description of pay in headline, first
paragraph of story published June 1.)  Deferred payments boosted total
compensation for the top managers at  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,
Japan’s largest brokerage, by 79 percent last year even as the
company eliminated their cash bonuses.  Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe and his team
received average compensation of 160.8 million yen ($2.1
million), including deferred remuneration, for the year ended
March, up from 89.9 million yen a year earlier, according to a
report to shareholders posted on the Tokyo-based firm’s website.  Watanabe and Chief Operating Officer Takumi Shibata oversaw
a 60 percent decline in net income to 11.6 billion yen for the
year. The shares touched the cheapest in at least 37 years in
November and Moody’s Investors Service cut the firm’s credit
rating to the lowest investment grade during the period.  “This shows Nomura is still seeking to become a world-
class player and it’s giving the higher salary in anticipation
of future business, including merger advisory,” said Katsunobu Komizo, president at Executive Search Partners Co.,  Japan ’s
biggest recruitment firm focusing on banks. “Stakeholders may
complain at the general meeting. Still, the compensation is low
compared with global competitors.”  Nomura paid a total of 965 million yen to Watanabe and five
other executives for the fiscal year, the report shows, without
providing individuals’ remuneration. The previous year, it paid
10 top managers a total of 899 million yen.  Basic Pay ‘Flat’  The main reason for the increase was the payment of 587
million yen of deferred compensation that was awarded through to
the year ended March 2011, the company said in an e-mailed
statement. “Basic compensation per head remained flat and no
cash bonuses were awarded” last fiscal year, it said.  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, was awarded $23 million in
salary and bonuses last year, almost double that of the six
Nomura executives combined.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein was paid $12.4 million,
about the same as the total for the Nomura officials.  Nomura distributed the figures ahead of a general
shareholders meeting scheduled for June 27. The bank pledged
last fiscal year to cut $1.2 billion of expenses that swelled
after it bought bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Asian
and European operations in 2008.  Quarterly Growth  While profit fell last fiscal year, it grew in each of the
past two quarters. Net income rose 86 percent in the three
months ended March from a year earlier to 22.1 billion yen as
gains from trading outweighed declines in  investment banking .  Nomura, which was the top financial adviser for Japanese
mergers and acquisitions in 2011, remains in first place this
year after working on 54 deals, including the government’s
purchase of a stake in  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Shares of Nomura have fallen 42 percent since the start of
last fiscal year. They dropped 2.7 percent to 252 yen at the
close of trading in Tokyo today.  Moody’s cut Nomura’s debt rating to Baa3, the lowest
investment grade, on March 15, saying global competition raises
questions over its profitability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  