-- NYC Mayor Bloomberg Seeks Ban on Super-Size Soft Drinks
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-05-31T18:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/nyc-mayor-bloomberg-seeks-ban-on-super-size-soft-drinks.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
intends to restrict sales of sugary soft drinks to no more than
16 ounces a cup in city restaurants, movie theaters, stadiums
and arenas, administration officials said.  The Health Department plans to propose the ban as an
amendment to the Health Code at a June 12 meeting of the  Board
of Health , according to Samantha Levine, a mayoral spokeswoman.  The move to ban super-sized sugared soft drinks, first
reported in the New York Times yesterday, is the latest of
several anti-obesity and nutrition initiatives undertaken by the
administration. It is among strategies to combat what the
administration has described as an epidemic of obesity and
related illnesses such as  heart disease  and diabetes.  “People will come to see this very much in the interest of
public health,” Deputy Mayor Howard Wolfson said today at a
press conference. “This is going to start a nationwide movement
toward this, a nationwide trend. I think it will prove to be
very popular.”  The city’s health department has posted anti-sugary drink
ads inside subway trains for three years. In 2008, the city
required  restaurant chains  to post calorie-counts on menus. In
2006 and 2007, the Board of Health and City Council banned
artery-clogging trans-fats from restaurants and prepared foods.
In 2003, Bloomberg blocked the beverages from vending machines
in schools and city-owned buildings.  Voice Disapproval  “The people of New York City are much smarter than the New
York City Health Department believes,” Kirsten Witt Webb, a
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail. “They can
make their own choices about the beverages they purchase. We
hope  New Yorkers  loudly voice their disapproval about this
arbitrary mandate.”  Jeff Dahncke, a spokesman for  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , referred
questions to the New York City Beverage Association. A spokesman
for  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  didn’t immediately respond to e-mails and
calls for comment.  “Public health issues cannot be effectively addressed
through a narrowly focused and misguided ban,” Heather Oldani,
a McDonald’s spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail. “This is a
complex topic, and one that requires a more collaborative and
comprehensive approach.”  The law would allow patrons to buy as many of the smaller
drinks as they wanted and get refills. The ban would not apply
to  convenience stores  and groceries, which will blunt any
financial toll on soft drink makers, according to Thomas Mullarkey, an analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago .  Low Impact  “The proposal probably won’t have too big an impact on the
likes of Coke and Pepsi,” Mullarkey said in a telephone
interview. “Most of their volume sales goes through convenience
and grocery stores.” He rates both companies as three stars out
of five, meaning they are fairly valued.  Soft drink profit margins are largest on smaller packages
including 20-ounce bottles, Mullarkey said. Larger fountain and
bottled drinks generate incremental dollar sales for retailers,
Peter Saleh, a New York-based analyst at Telsey Advisory Group
said in a telephone interview.  Super-sizing drinks and food is “a way for them to move
the average check a little bit higher,” Saleh said. “There are
definitely ways to work around getting to a higher check without
having the larger beverage.”  Smaller Packages  Coca-Cola has added smaller packages, including 12-ounce
and 16-ounce bottles, that will make it easier to respond to
proposals such as  New York ’s, said Caroline Levy, a New York-
based analyst for Credit Agricole Securities USA Inc. While
PepsiCo has been slower to respond, it’s catching up, she said.  The risk is low that other cities will follow with similar
bans, said Levy, adding, “People will see it as an infringement
on their personal liberties.”  She rates Coca-Cola and PepsiCo shares the equivalent of
“buy.”  The American Beverage Association and the National
Restaurant Association also said they oppose  Mayor Bloomberg ’s
proposal. Both lobbying groups said calories from sugary
beverages as a percentage of Americans’ diets are declining.
U.S. soft drink sales have fallen for seven straight years,
according to Beverage Digest.  Once the proposal has been introduced, the health board
will vote on it after three months of public comment, Levine
said. No other authorization from the state or city would be
required. Restaurants and other outlets would have six months
from the date of adoption to comply or face citations, she said.  Caloric Consumption  The largest driver of increases in obesity and caloric
consumption is sugary drinks, according to  New York city 
officials. Americans now consume 200 to 300 more calories daily
than 30 years ago, they said. Men  given  18 ounces -- compared
with 12 ounces -- of beverage drank 26 percent more while women
drank 10 percent more, with no decrease in food consumption and
no difference in reported fullness or thirst, city health
officials said.  More than 35 percent of U.S. adults and about 17 percent of
youths -- or roughly 90 million people -- are considered obese,
according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.  “We have an obligation to warn you when things aren’t good
for your health,” Bloomberg said today in an interview on
 MSNBC .  A growing body of medical research at leading universities
and government laboratories suggests that sugary drinks made by
the likes of PepsiCo and Coca-Cola can hijack the brain in ways
that resemble addictions to cocaine, nicotine and other drugs.
At least 28 scientific studies and papers on food addiction were
published last year, according to a National Library of Medicine
database.  Exercise Burn  Soft drink makers say their products make up 7 percent of
the average American’s diet, too little to be the cause of
obesity. Weight gain can be slowed by paying attention to the
amount of calories consumed and burned through exercise, the
American Beverage Association has said. Soda makers have offered
smaller packages, labeled products with clearer calorie counts
and agreed to stop selling sugary drinks in most schools.  Since the beginning of 2009, PepsiCo, Coca-Cola and the
American Beverage Association have spent as much as $70 million
on lobbying and issue ads, according to the Center for Science
in the Public Interest, a proponent of soda taxes. Recent
efforts to enact levies on soft drinks have foundered in at
least 30 states. Last year, the federal government rejected an
attempt to bar purchases of sugared drinks with  food stamps .  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  