-- Obama Boosts Coal Exports, Prompting Allies’ Complaints
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-05-31T18:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/obama-boosts-coal-exports-prompting-allies-complaints-1-.html
The U.S. government’s export lender
backed $90 million in loans to boost overseas sale of coal,
drawing criticism from environmental groups that say the Obama
administration is ignoring coal’s risks to air and health.  XCoal Energy & Resources LLC, a Pennsylvania exporting
company, received final approval from the U.S. Export-Import
Bank yesterday for a working capital guarantee to help it boost
shipments of coal to  Japan ,  South Korea  and  China .  It’s the first direct transaction for coal exports in at
least five years, and has taken on symbolic importance for the
Sierra Club and other organizations. They say the administration
of President  Barack Obama  -- which also helped finance two
overseas coal-fired power plants in its most recent fiscal year
-- is running afoul of its  pledge  to deal with the climate-
change impact of Ex-Im financing.  Coal has “a serious health and environmental impact that
their policy should cover,” Doug Norlen, policy director for
Pacific Environment, a San Francisco-based watchdog of
government-financing bodies. “If it doesn’t, that’s a serious
deficiency.”  The Ex-Im loan has larger political overtones, as lobbyists
for coal producers and other groups have targeted Obama with
negative campaign commercials, saying regulations from the
Environmental Protection Agency threaten to stall the industry.
Republican opponent  Mitt Romney  traveled to Craig,  Colorado , on
May 29 for an event to highlight this theme. A nearby  Peabody
Energy Corp. (BTU)  mine halted production so workers could attend the
Romney rally,  CNN  reported.  Slumping Demand  With demand for coal slumping in the U.S. because of
falling natural-gas prices, exports are rising and with it
environmental fights. Exports more than doubled from 2009 to
2011, totaling $15.9 billion last year. Exports are on track to
top that total again this year, according to Commerce Department
statistics.  Meanwhile, environmental groups are trying to block plans
to build a coal-exporting hub in the Pacific Northwest, as they
worry the U.S. will just be exporting its carbon dioxide
emissions to fast-growing developing nations such as China.  Burning coal releases pollutants such as mercury and sulfur
dioxide, and also emits more than twice the carbon dioxide --the
primary cause of  climate change  -- as natural gas, according to
the EPA. Mining coal is often dangerous for miners and
destructive to nearby waterways.  East Coast  XCoal, based in Latrobe,  Pennsylvania , is a coal trader,
buying minerals extracted from Pennsylvania and West Virginia
and exporting it from East Coast ports such as Baltimore,
according to its website. It had a working-capital guarantee
from the Export-Import Bank, and yesterday’s approval from the
lender quadrupled the size of that support. The financing is
offered as a guarantee to a commercial bank.  The coal will be used to fuel overseas steel plants.  Ernie Thrasher, XCoal’s chief executive officer, is
traveling this week and couldn’t be reached for comment. Other
company officials didn’t respond to messages seeking comment on
the credit guarantee.  As long as XCoal complies with appropriate U.S.
environmental laws, it can receive Ex-Im support, said James
Mahoney, the lender’s vice president for engineering and
environment. Because XCoal isn’t sending coal to a specific
overseas project, the lender didn’t conduct its own
environmental review before agreeing to provide this guarantee,
he said.  “We’re open in all industry sectors,” Mahoney said in an
interview.  Overseas Projects  Mahoney said he wasn’t aware of similar Ex-Im support for
other coal exporters in the past. None of the exports detailed
in the bank’s annual reports over the past five years is
identified as shipping coal overseas.  The Washington-based lender has increased support for
overseas projects, such as coal-fired power generation. It’s
provided $1.7 billion for five new fossil-fuel  power plants  in
the 12 months through September 2011, resulting in a record
63.95 million metric tons of carbon-dioxide emissions, according
to its 2011 annual report. Two coal plants -- in  South Africa 
and  India  -- accounted for 88 percent of the total.  The bank, which often announces loan agreements with
overseas buyers, didn’t issue a public statement on the XCoal
support while posting a press release on a $48 million loan for
green-technology exports to  Brazil .  With the latest financing, Obama’s administration is
running afoul of the Sierra Club, which already endorsed his re-
election campaign.  “The Ex-Im Bank has once again demonstrated its commitment
to the world’s most heavily polluting fuel: coal,” Justin Guay,
Washington representative at the  Sierra Club ’s International
Climate Program, said in a statement. This will “prop up a
dirty and outdated industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  