-- Obese Children Navigate Minefield of Calories and Bad Ads
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-31T23:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/obese-children-navigate-minefield-of-calories-and-bad-ads.html
The obesity problem in the U.S. has
two distinct parts. One has to do with adults, and in an  earlier
editorial  we described ways to change the prevailing food
environment to encourage grown-ups to eat less and better.  Now the trickier side of the equation: children, whose food
world is shaped at home, at school and by the commercial media.
It is imperative that we address this complicated ecosystem for
a simple reason: Obese children usually grow up to be obese
adults.  Let’s back up. Well before they mature, obese adolescents
develop unhealthy  blood pressure , cholesterol and blood-sugar
levels, as well as  heart-valve damage  and other signs of
impaired heart function.  The good news is that by losing their excess weight, the
young obese can return to good health. By adulthood, those who
come down to a normal weight have no greater risk of diabetes,
hypertension and cardiovascular disease than people who were
never obese.  Nationwide, the prevalence of obesity in children has
 leveled off  in the past few years at  17 percent , though it has
increased a bit for boys, whose rate is almost 19 percent. The
obesity rates among certain racial groups are stubbornly higher
than average: 24 percent among black children and 21 percent for
Hispanic kids.  Infant Fat  Where do we go from here? Obesity researchers have
intensified their investigation into weight gain in infancy and
toddlerhood. This is important, because most of the excess
weight kids gain before adolescence occurs before age 5.
According to a  2006 study , children who are overweight in their
preschool years are five times more likely than other children
to be overweight at age 12.  Bottle-feeding , researchers have observed, for example,
leads to greater weight gain than breast-feeding, even if breast
milk is what’s in the bottle. Mothers of overweight toddlers
have been found to  view their children’s weight  as normal, which
perhaps keeps them from cutting back on calories.  From the time kids reach kindergarten, a significant part
of their diet is determined by the food choices offered at
school and what they see on TV. A  2011 study  found that kids
with relatively high exposure to food ads on television consume
more soft drinks and fast food than other kids do. Among those
already on the heavy side, increased watching of TV food ads is
strongly associated with a higher body-mass index.  Grown-ups are already beginning to clamp down on school
food. Many states, cities and school districts now ban sugar-
sweetened drinks in schools. All of them should make sure the
ban includes sugar-sweetened fruit drinks and sports beverages.
Even juice itself is better replaced with fresh fruit or water.  New  standards  for federally supported school lunch programs
require that fruits and vegetables be offered every day, that
more whole-grain foods be made available, that milk be fat-free
or low-fat, that water always be at hand and that meals contain
a limited number of calories. Many school districts -- also the
state of  California  -- now limit the calories, fat and sugar in
foods on sale in school vending machines. For every school,
these standards should be a floor, not a ceiling.  (In related news, Michael R. Bloomberg, principal owner of
Bloomberg News’s parent company and mayor of  New York City , this
week proposed a ban on the sale of large-size -- more than 16
ounces -- sugary drinks at restaurants, delis, vending carts,
movie theaters and sports arenas.)  Although food intake is the biggest contributor to
 childhood obesity , experts agree that physical activity plays
some part; more active kids are less likely to be overweight and
vice versa. Getting kids into a gym, outside, or just up and
moving about the classroom is something every school can do, no
matter how inadequate its fitness facilities. We agree with last
month’s recommendation by the  Institute of Medicine : All
children should get at least an hour of physical activity during
the school day, as well as access to after-school activities and
programs that encourage walking or bicycling to school.  TV Advertisements  As for those TV ads for unhealthy foods, it may be
unrealistic to think of banning them, but they can be
discouraged. Here again, the  Institute of Medicine  has a smart
suggestion: First, urge the food, beverage, restaurant and media
industries to ensure that only healthy foods -- those that meet
the  Dietary Guidelines for Americans  -- are advertised to
children ages 2 to 17. If, after two years, this change hasn’t
materialized, then local, state and federal policy makers should
consider setting mandatory standards.  They should also consider barring food companies from
claiming  tax deductions  for the costs of TV spots for fast food
and sugary drinks, a strategy suggested by Inas Kelly, an
economist at Queens College in  New York .  Invasive? Consider that the annual bill for treating the
medical problems of 12.5 million obese children in the U.S. runs
to  $14 billion . What’s more, children covered by Medicaid are
almost six times as likely to be treated for obesity-related
problems as children with private insurance.  The good news is that it appears we can change behavior. In
eastern  Massachusetts , obesity among girls and boys under 6
decreased significantly from 2004 to 2008. In New York City,
obesity among  schoolchildren  declined 5.5 percent from the 2006-
07 school year to 2010-11 -- about 6,500 fewer obese kids.
That’s the kind of progress we’d like to see accelerate,
everywhere.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  private space
exploration ; William Pesek on  Hong Kong’s growth concerns ;  Noah
Feldman  on  China’s social-media censorship ;  Luigi Zingales  on
 market-friendly financial regulation ; Josh Barro on  taking over
failing cities .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 