-- Oil Set for Biggest Monthly Drop in Three Years on Debt Crisis
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-05-31T13:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/oil-set-for-biggest-monthly-drop-in-three-years-on-debt-crisis.html
Oil was poised for the biggest
monthly drop in more than three years in  New York  on speculation
Europe’s worsening debt crisis and a sputtering U.S. recovery
will reduce fuel demand.  Crude fell as much as 0.8 percent after losing 3.2 percent
yesterday, the most since May 4.  European inflation  slowed more
than economists forecast this month, cooling to the least in
more than a year as the economic slump showed signs of
deepening. Oil closed yesterday 20 percent below this year’s
highest settlement of $109.77, a movement that often defines a
 bear market . The number of Americans applying for  unemployment 
insurance payments rose last week to a one-month high, a sign
that progress in reducing joblessness may be stalling.  “The market seems fixed on the debt worries in Southern
Europe and potential repercussions from the Greek situation
spreading,” said Michael Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk
Management in Middelfart,  Denmark , who predicts prices will
recover by the end of the year. “In the short term we’ll see
more market jitters as participants are looking at the
headlines, but I’m fairly optimistic we won’t see a break-up in
the euro construction any time soon.”  Crude for July delivery lost as much as 67 cents to $87.15
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , trading for $87.20 at 1:45 p.m. London time. The
contract slid $2.94 yesterday to $87.82, the lowest settlement
since Oct. 21. Prices are down 17 percent this month, the
biggest drop since December 2008, and are 12 percent lower this
year.  Brent oil for July settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange was at $102.90 a barrel, down 57 cents.
Prices have dropped 14 percent this month, the most since May
2010. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to  New York- 
traded crude narrowed for a third day to $15.77.  Technical Indicator Falls  First-time claims for jobless benefits increased by 10,000
to 383,000 in the week ended May 26 from a revised 373,000 the
prior week, the Labor Department said today. The initial claims
exceeded the median estimate of 370,000 in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. The number of people on unemployment
benefit rolls dropped.  Oil may extend its decline in New York as the monthly
moving average convergence-divergence indicator falls below its
signal line, showing a loss of positive momentum, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors tend to sell contracts on
a so-called bearish MACD crossover. Futures have short-term
technical support along the lower Bollinger Band on the daily
chart, around $85.45 a barrel today.  Market Oversupplied  “The market is oversupplied by around 500,000 barrels a
day,” said Dominic Schnider, the Singapore-based global head of
commodity research at UBS AG’s wealth-management unit, who sees
New York crude falling to $80 a barrel and Brent to $95. “The
speculative interests are still high in oil. That makes it
extremely vulnerable to further deterioration.”  Iran , OPEC’s second-largest producer, faces Western
sanctions including an oil embargo starting July 1 aimed at
persuading it to stop enriching uranium. The Persian Gulf nation
has increased its stockpile of 20 percent medium-enriched
uranium by a third since February, the UN’s International Atomic
Energy Agency said in a May 25 report.  Iran and Western negotiators will hold another round of
talks about the country’s nuclear program next month after
failing to reach an agreement at a summit in  Baghdad  last week.
The government in Tehran faces four set of United Nations
sanctions urging the country to stop enriching uranium.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  