-- Oil Heads for Monthly Drop on Europe Debt Crisis, Economy
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2012-05-31T07:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/oil-rebounds-from-low-in-new-york-trades-little-changed.html
Oil was poised for the biggest
monthly drop in more than three years in  New York  on speculation
 Europe ’s worsening debt crisis and a slowing U.S. economy will
reduce fuel demand.  Futures traded little changed after losing 3.2 percent
yesterday, the most since May 4. Prices fell as the cost of
protecting Spanish bonds against default climbed to a record
yesterday and a Greek poll showed support for anti-austerity
parties before elections. Pending U.S. home sales slid the most
in a year in April, according to a report. Oil closed yesterday
20 percent below this year’s highest settlement of $109.77 a
barrel, a magnitude commonly defined as a  bear market .  “The problem is not only in  Greece  but several countries
in Europe,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity derivative sales
manager at Newedge Group in  Tokyo , who predicts New York crude
will decline to $75 a barrel by the third quarter. “Prices have
fallen on the pessimistic expectations of the global economic
recovery.”  Crude for July delivery was unchanged at $87.82 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 3 p.m.
Singapore time. The contract slid $2.94 yesterday to $87.82, the
lowest settlement since Oct. 21. Prices are down 16 percent this
month, the biggest drop since December 2008, and are 11 percent
lower this year.  Brent oil for July settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $103.43 a barrel, down 4 cents.
Prices have dropped 13 percent this month, the most since May
2010. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to  New York- 
traded crude narrowed for a third day to $15.62.  ‘Demand Destruction’  “We’re seeing demand destruction across the board,” said
 Jonathan Barratt , chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin,
a commodity-markets newsletter in Sydney. “I was looking for a
Middle Eastern premium to be built in, but  Spain ’s concern seems
to be overriding that and filtering through the whole commodity
complex. People are scared to spend.”  The countries using the euro accounted for about 12 percent
of global oil demand in 2010, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s annual
Statistical Review of World Energy released in June. The U.S.
accounted for about 21 percent.  Oil may extend its decline in New York as the monthly
moving average convergence-divergence indicator falls below its
signal line, showing a loss of positive momentum, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors tend to sell contracts on
a so-called bearish MACD crossover. Futures have short-term
technical support along the lower Bollinger Band on the daily
chart, around $85.45 a barrel today.  OPEC Production  U.S. crude output rose 90,000 barrels a day to 6.24 million
in the week ended May 18, the fastest rate since February 1999,
Energy Department data showed last week. Oil production in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries climbed 305,000
barrels to 31.405 million barrels a day in April, the most since
October 2008, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “The market is oversupplied by around 500,000 barrels a
day,” said Dominic Schnider, the Singapore-based global head of
commodity research at UBS AG’s wealth-management unit, who sees
New York crude falling to $80 a barrel and Brent to $95. “The
speculative interests are still high in oil. That makes it
extremely vulnerable to further deterioration.”  So-called long positions in crude, or  wagers  on rising
prices, outnumbered short bets by 136,751 contracts in the week
ended May 22 on the Nymex. That’s 12 percent higher than the
average in U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
compiled by Bloomberg going back to at least June 2006.  Iran , OPEC’s second-largest producer, faces Western
sanctions including an oil embargo starting July 1 aimed at
persuading it to stop enriching uranium. The Persian Gulf nation
has increased its stockpile of 20 percent medium-enriched
uranium by a third since February, the UN’s International Atomic
Energy Agency said in a May 25 report.  U.S. Stockpiles  Iran and Western negotiators will hold another round of
talks about the country’s nuclear program next month after
failing to reach an agreement at a summit in  Baghdad  last week.
The government in Tehran faces four set of United Nations
sanctions urging the country to stop enriching uranium.  U.S. oil  stockpiles  dropped 353,000 barrels to 385.9
million last week, according to the  American Petroleum Institute ,
an industry group in  Washington . An Energy Department report
today will likely show that supplies climbed 1 million barrels
to 383.5 million, the highest since 1990, according to the
median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Gasoline inventories rose  2.1 million barrels , the API data
showed. The Energy Department report will probably show
stockpiles slid 1 million barrels, according to the survey. The
agency is scheduled to release its report at 11 a.m. today.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  