-- Oil Caps Biggest Monthly Drop in More Than Three Years
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-05-31T20:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/oil-set-for-biggest-monthly-drop-in-three-years.html
Oil capped the biggest monthly drop
in more than three years on speculation that slowing U.S. growth
and  Europe ’s debt crisis will reduce fuel demand.  Futures decreased 1.5 percent after more Americans applied
for jobless benefits and the nation’s gross domestic product
expanded more slowly than estimated.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded
eight Spanish regions’ credit, stoking concern the crisis will
force lenders to bail out of the country. A government report
showed U.S. crude supplies rose to a 22-year high.  “The markets are clearly being driven by economic fear,”
said  Chip Hodge , who oversees a $9 billion natural-resource bond
portfolio as senior managing director at Manulife Asset
Management in  Boston . “The data here show that economic growth
is slowing and the situation in Europe continues to worsen. The
economic headwinds are very strong.”  Crude for July delivery declined $1.29 to $86.53 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
Oct. 20. Futures tumbled 17 percent this month, the biggest
decrease since December 2008, and are down 12 percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement fell $1.60, or 1.5 percent,
to end the session at $101.87 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. It was the lowest settlement since Oct.
4. Prices dropped 15 percent this month, the most since December
2008.  U.S. Growth  First-time claims for  jobless  benefits climbed by 10,000 to
a one-month high of 383,000 last week, the  Labor Department  said
today. Figures from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP showed
payrolls rose by 133,000 in May, less than the 150,000 advance
forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  GDP grew at a 1.9 percent annual rate from January through
March, down from a 2.2 percent prior estimate, revised Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington.  Business activity in the U.S. expanded at the slowest pace
in more than two years in May. The Institute for Supply
Management- Chicago  Inc. said today its  barometer  decreased to
52.7, the lowest level since September 2009, from 56.2 in April.
Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  “The unemployment number, the ADP report and the GDP data
all combine to create a negative picture for all the markets,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a  New York- 
based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “Watching Europe go
off the rails again this month has been damaging to both
confidence and demand.”  Spanish Bailout  Investors are concerned that  Spain , the euro area’s fourth-
largest economy, may need a bailout as a deepening  recession 
hampers efforts to reduce its  budget deficit , which was 8.9
percent of output last year. Spanish 10-year borrowing costs are
nearing the 7 percent level that led  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal  to seek aid. The debt crisis has cut economic growth
and fuel consumption.  Futures rebounded from the day’s lows after a Greek opinion
poll showed support for the largest pro-bailout party before the
June 17 election and on a Wall Street Journal report indicating
that the  International Monetary Fund  has started discussing
contingency plans for a rescue of Spain.  The IMF is not preparing financial aid for Spain, nor has
the country asked for a loan, Gerry Rice, the fund’s director of
external relations, told reporters in  Washington  today.  Consensus View  “The consensus view is that economic growth is slowing
globally, which is going to have an impact on demand,” said
David McAlvany, chief executive officer of McAlvany Financial
Group in Durango,  Colorado . “Rising supplies wouldn’t matter if
demand was expected to increase.”  Inventories of crude oil rose 2.21 million barrels last
week to 384.7 million, the highest level since July 1990, the
Energy Department report showed. It was the 10th consecutive
gain, the longest stretch since early 2010. Supplies were
forecast to grow 1 million barrels, according to the median of
11 analyst responses in a Bloomberg survey.  Stockpiles at Cushing, Oklahoma,  the delivery point for  New
York  futures, increased 54,000 barrels in the week ended May 25
to a record 46.8 million, the report showed.  Total  fuel consumption  declined 1.9 percent to 18.3 million
barrels a day, the lowest level since March. Demand was down 4.3
percent from a year earlier.  “The trend is definitely down,” said Todd Horwitz, chief
strategist at Adam Mesh Trading Group in Chicago. “My next
target is last summer’s low of $75.71. We’re oversupplied and
the European situation continues to weigh on the market.”  The Energy Department published the supply report a day
later than usual this week because of the Memorial Day holiday
on May 28.  OPEC Production  Oil output by the  Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries  rose in May to the highest level since 2008 as  Saudi
Arabia  pumped crude at the fastest pace in at least 23 years, a
Bloomberg survey showed. The group’s production advanced 20,000
barrels to an average 31.595 million barrels a day, according to
the survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts.  “OPEC production continues to rise and that’s being
reflected in rising inventories,” Kilduff said.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 595,135
contracts as of 4:10 p.m. Volume totaled 548,771 contracts
yesterday, 1.7 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.44 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  