-- Hollande Confronts Mounting French Unemployment as Reality Bites
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-31T08:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/hollande-confronts-mounting-french-unemployment-as-reality-bites.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
ended his first two weeks in office with a thud.  Home after travels to three summits and on three continents,
Hollande faces job-cut plans at some of the country’s biggest
companies and pressure from the European Union to hold to
budget-deficit targets as the euro-area crisis threatens to
swamp neighboring  Spain . His government yesterday reported
jobless claims in April rose to the highest in 13 years as his
Socialists campaign to take control of the Parliament.  “That’s that the first of many reality checks ahead for
Hollande,” said  Bruno Cautres , a political analyst at Cevipof,
a political research center in Paris. “We’re getting in the
core now. Next are the compromises in  Europe  he’ll be forced to
make because just advocating growth isn’t enough. France’s
crippling economy will clip his wings and a failure in the
legislative elections could limit him room to move.”  Hollande took over May 15 after pledging to  revive  France’s
economy. Still, gross domestic product growth is set to stall
this quarter and the European Commission demanded
“significant” steps to meet the deficit target of 3 percent of
GDP next year. Hollande now says he’ll ask taxpayers “to make
efforts” to meet the EU’s rules.  All that points to a honeymoon gone in a blink. Last week
France drew the strongest auction demand since the  European debt
crisis  began in 2009 at record-low borrowing costs.  Consumer
confidence  unexpectedly climbed for a third month as households
anticipated an easing of austerity measures.  ‘Respect’  Hollande, who pledged to “respect” taxpayers, warned
about the tough measures to meet his promise to reduce the
nation’s public deficit to 3 percent from 4.2 percent this year.  The Paris-based Organisation for Economic cooperation and
Development predicts growth will slow to 0.6 percent this year
from 1.3 percent in 2011. Hollande said he banked on 0.5 percent
growth in 2012 and 1.7 percent in 2013.  Hollande won office promising more  government spending  than
 Nicolas Sarkozy , including the hiring of 60,000 teachers. He
also promised to tax income of more than 1 million euros ($1.26
million) at a rate of 75 percent, an increase in the minimum
wage, a rollback in the  retirement age  for some workers and a
reversal of Sarkozy’s sales-tax increase.  Holding fast is key to a Socialist victory in the two-round
legislative elections June 10 and June 17. If he fails to gain
an absolute majority, Hollande will struggle with lawmakers to
pass his program.  As he campaigned, Hollande said in his first televised
interview, he’s intent on “acting simple.”  ‘Acting Simple’  “ Acting simple, it’s not being mediocre ,” he said on
France 2 television May 29. “On the contrary, it’s respecting
French people and acting with exemplariness.” Hollande said he
took the train to Brussels for an EU summit last week, rather
than “mobilizing two planes -- yes two planes,” as Sarkozy
did.  His “not-like-Sarkozy” approach may not be enough when
 France  passes the 3 million jobseekers bar likely in the fall,
Cautres says.  “Maybe this time he can justify that the economic turmoil
is not his fault but his predecessor’s,” Cautres said. “French
voters will not hear that argument beyond the legislative
elections. Then he will be in charge of France.”  France has lost more industrial jobs than any other
European country over the past decade and labor unions expect
companies including Arcelor, Carrefour, PSA and EON France to
cut as many as 45,000 jobs in the months ahead. Labor Minister
Michel Sapin told RTL radio the estimate was  “realistic.”   As electioneering ends on June 17 with the final
legislative round, Hollande may find it difficult to block
corporate job cuts as he pledged during his own campaign.  ‘Parade of Firings’  “I won’t allow a parade of firings that have been
postponed,” he said April 26, adding that “there needs to be a
sense of responsibility in executive boardrooms. The day after
the election, before irrevocable decisions are taken, I will
have to intervene.”  The same labor unions that backed his candidacy may become
Hollande’s main obstacle, as they demand action to prevent job
losses.  “Dialogue in first weeks is always fine,” said  Francois Chereque ,  head of the CFDT , France’s biggest union. “It’s after
that it’ll get tricky.”  Hollande began his mandate with an approval rating of 61
percent, according to an Ifop May 26 survey for Journal du
Dimanche. Sarkozy started at 69 percent and was at 61 percent
after August 2007, when the financial crisis first flared.  With the crisis now threatening to force  Greece  out of the
euro, Hollande is challenging German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
calls for austerity while expressing sympathy for Greece’s
recession. Greek citizens should be given more “hope” and
“prospects for growth” rather than only austerity that he says
breeds “ populism .”  For all that, the Socialist leader says that he was never
going to win everything he wanted from his European partners.  “We must discuss, put everything on the table,” he told
France 2. “We are on path to a certain number of compromises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net 
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  