-- Commercial Landlords Fail to Pay Loans Amid Crisis, Moody’s Says
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-05-31T14:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/moody-s-says-79-of-european-cmbs-went-unpaid-in-first-quarter.html
Landlords of commercial properties in
 Europe  are struggling to repay mortgages as banks pull back from
refinancing the loans, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Seventy-nine percent of the loans packaged into commercial
mortgage-backed securities rated by Moody’s that came due in the
first quarter weren’t repaid on time, Frankfurt-based analyst
Oliver Moldenhauer wrote in a report. The non-payment rate more
than doubled from 35 percent in 2009 and reflects “the current
weak state of the lending market,” Moldenhauer wrote.  The economic slowdown is hurting landlords of properties
from office blocks to car parks and shopping malls across
Europe. A total of 38 billion euros ($47 billion) of commercial
real estate loans come due this year and next, Moody’s said.  “As banks need to deleverage due to regulatory
requirements, commercial real estate financing will remain
constrained,” Moldenhauer wrote. “Most loans will not be
repaid.”  In the U.K., banks and other creditors cut commercial real
estate lending by 6.8 percent to 212.3 billion pounds ($329
billion) last year as they bolstered balance sheets and
recapitalized to meet stricter regulations, according to an
estimate published May 18 by  De Montfort University  in
Leicester,  England .  “Not only can underwater loans not be refinanced,
borrowers also face difficulties refinancing moderately
leveraged loans that are simply too large in the current lending
market,” said Christian Aufsatz, an analyst at Barclays Plc in
 London . “For CMBS, the situation will become worse.”  Real estate with mortgages that match or exceed the value
of the property -- a so-called loan-to-value ratio of 100
percent or higher -- suffered defaults in “nearly all” cases
in the first quarter, Moody’s said. About a third of borrowers
with LTV ratios of up to 80 percent didn’t pay up on time,
according to the report.  Most of the loans that were repaid were for less than 25
million euros, while just one of the 15 mortgages worth 75
million euros or more was paid on time, Moldenhauer wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  