-- Morgan Stanley to Buy More of Smith Barney From Citigroup
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-05-31T13:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/morgan-stanley-will-buy-more-of-smith-barney-from-citigroup.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , the majority owner of
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC, plans to buy an
additional 14 percent stake in the brokerage from  Citigroup Inc. (C)   The price will be determined over a 90-day period,
according to a statement today from New York-based Morgan
Stanley. The investment bank already owns 51 percent of Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney, which is the world’s largest brokerage.
Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank, sold the controlling
stake to Morgan Stanley in 2009.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 55, is
unloading unwanted assets in the Citi Holdings division to
buttress the bank’s balance sheet. Morgan Stanley has the right
to buy the entire brokerage, which has more than 17,000 advisers
and $1.74 trillion in client assets, over the next two years.  “Several years ago, after taking a dispassionate look at
all of our businesses, we placed Morgan Stanley  Smith Barney  in
Citi Holdings because we decided it was not core to our
strategy,” Jon Diat, a Citigroup spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Citi has made enormous progress in reducing similar
non-core assets in an economically rational manner.”  In addition to paying for the stake, Morgan Stanley must
pay New York-based Citigroup a premium for about $5.4 billion of
customer deposits that will be transferred as part of the sale,
according to a regulatory filing.  Estimates Due  Morgan Stanley and Citigroup will submit their estimates of
the brokerage’s fair value within about 45 days from tomorrow.
If the figures are within 10 percent of each other, the stake
will be sold at the average of the two, according to a
regulatory filing. If the difference is more than 10 percent,
the firms would bring in an outside appraiser, who will submit
an estimate of fair value by the end of August.  Citigroup Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach , 58,
indicated last month that the bank may be willing to sell the
rest of its stake to Morgan Stanley this year. Morgan Stanley
CEO  James Gorman  said April 19 that he feels “no particular
compulsion” to speed up purchases of the remaining pieces.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  