-- Mortgage Rates in the U.S. Decline to Lowest on Record
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-05-31T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/mortgage-rates-in-the-u-s-decline-to-lowest-on-record.html
Mortgage rates  for 30-year U.S. loans
fell to a record low for a fifth straight week as concern about
Europe’s worsening financial crisis drove investors to the
safety of the  government bonds  that guide borrowing costs.  The average rate for a 30-year mortgage dropped to 3.75
percent in the week ended today from 3.78 percent,  Freddie Mac (FMCC) 
said in a statement. It was the lowest in the McLean, Virginia-
based mortgage-finance company’s records dating to 1971. The
average 15-year rate declined to 2.97 percent, also a record,
from 3.04 percent.  Yields for 10-year U.S. Treasuries, a benchmark for home
loans, hit an all-time low yesterday as Spain struggled to
rescue its troubled banks, adding to signs that the  European
debt crisis  is spreading to the region’s larger economies. Low
borrowing costs are helping to provide a foundation for the
stabilizing U.S. real estate market after a six-year slide in
home prices.  “It is good news for the housing market, but the problem
for the housing sector isn’t that borrowing costs are high, it’s
that banks are unwilling to lend,” said  Millan Mulraine , a
senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities Inc. in New York.  The number of Americans signing contracts to buy previously
owned houses fell in April by the most in a year, the National
Association of Realtors said yesterday. Pending home resales
dropped 5.5 percent from March. They rose 15 percent from a year
earlier.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities fell in the 12 months through
March at the slowest pace in more than a year. The S&P/Case-
Shiller  index  of property values dropped 2.6 percent from a year
earlier following a 3.5 percent decline in February, the group
reported May 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  