-- House Passes FDA’s $6.4 Billion Fee Plan for Drug Reviews
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-05-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/house-passes-fda-s-6-4-billion-fee-plan-for-drug-reviews.html
The $6.4 billion accord that  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Inc. (TEVA) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and other
companies reached with U.S. regulators to fund new medicine and
device reviews through 2017 passed the  House of Representatives .  The House voted late yesterday 387-5 in favor of the
legislation, which is similar to a measure approved by the
Senate May 24. Lawmakers must reconcile differences in the
bills, such as dates for the  Food and Drug Administration  to
comply with certain provisions and language in the Senate’s
version that would require more scrutiny for some new devices.  The legislation would raise the so-called user fees
industries pay the FDA for safety and efficacy reviews by more
than $2 billion from the previous five-year period. Drugmakers
in September and device companies in February agreed to the
increases in exchange for more meetings with the FDA throughout
the review process that may produce faster product approvals.  “This bill will foster American innovation because it
includes significant accountability and reform measures designed
to hold the FDA responsible for its performance,”
Representative  Fred Upton , a Republican from Michigan and
chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said during
debate on the bill.  The Food and Drug Administration Reform Act of 2012, H.R.
5651, also includes measures to speed approval of treatments for
life-threatening conditions, enhance safety monitoring of
devices after clearance and mitigate drug shortages. The Senate
and House bills must be reconciled in time for the president to
sign the legislation by an Oct. 1 deadline.  Generic Drugs  Brand-name drugmakers will pay $4.1 billion, 6 percent more
than the previous five-year period, while fees for device makers
will more than double to $609 million, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office ’s  cost estimate . Brand-name
drugmakers have paid the fees since 1992 and device makers began
their system in 2002.  Generic-drug companies, which had been exempt from user
fees, will pay $1.58 billion. Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based
 Mylan Inc. (MYL) , the largest U.S. maker of copycat medicines, led its
industry effort to participate in the fee program to quicken
review times and deal with a backlog of applications, as well as
to ensure the FDA has the resources to inspect foreign plants.  Companies making generic versions of complex biologic
drugs, a process not allowed until passage of President  Barack Obama ’s health law in 2010, will pay user fees, which the budget
office determined would total $128 million through 2017.  Tracking System  Lawmakers sought to adjust regulatory oversight of medical
devices, requiring post-market studies and pushing the FDA to
implement a system to electronically track the products. The
legislation also directs the agency to use an accelerated
approval program already taken advantage of by cancer and AIDS
treatments that requires a lower standard of evidence for
initial clearance of medicines for life-threatening diseases.  The legislation requires companies to report potential drug
shortages to give regulators time to find alternate sources.
Shortages, including cancer treatments, almost tripled to 178 in
2010 from 61 in 2005, according to a FDA report released in
October.  Senators Michael Bennet, a Democrat from  Colorado , and
 Richard Burr , a Republican of  North Carolina , are working on
language for a final bill that would help the FDA better police
drugs from manufacturing to distribution to pharmacies.
Representatives Brian Bilbray, a Republican from California, and
Jim Matheson, a Democrat from  Utah , have worked on the issue in
the House, and plan to be involved in negotiating a tracking
system when the House and Senate merge their bills, Fred Tayco,
a spokesman for Bilbray, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  