-- How Financial Regulation Can Be Market Friendly
-- B y   L u i g i   Z i n g a l e s
-- 2012-05-31T23:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/how-financial-regulation-can-be-market-friendly.html
The structure of financial regulation
in the U.S. resembles sedimentary rock: Each layer is the legacy
of a crisis, but there is nothing binding the layers together.  The  Federal Reserve  was created in 1913 to address the
liquidity problems that occurred during the panic of 1907. The
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  was instituted in 1933 to
prevent the kind of bank runs that had forced more than 5,000
banks to close in the early 1930s. The Securities and Exchange
Commission came into being in 1934 to prevent the stock-market
manipulations of the 1920s. The Office of Thrift Supervision was
created in 1989, after the savings-and-loan crisis of the late
1980s. And the 2010  Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act , which brought us the Financial Stability
Oversight Council, was the result of the most recent financial
crisis.  So it’s not surprising that the current regulatory system
runs into problems with coordination and the communication of
information. This lack of coordination can tempt industry to
avoid regulation entirely. For example, state insurance
regulators never oversaw credit-default swaps -- even though
they were essentially insurance products -- because they were
called “swaps,” which made them sound like standard
derivatives.  Poor Condition  As for communication of information, consider what happened
during the collapse of Bear Stearns Cos. The Fed was late
learning about the extent of the bank’s poor financial condition
or the risks that its failure would pose to the entire  banking
system  because the central bank didn’t regulate investment banks
-- that was the SEC’s job.  The way to fix these problems is to allocate financial
regulation and supervision to three different agencies, each
responsible for only one of the three principal goals of
financial-system regulation.  One agency would be in charge of  price stability , more or
less conducting the traditional monetary policy of the Fed. A
second agency would focus on protecting the little guys, whether
they are investing in stock, depositing funds at a bank,
borrowing from a bank, or buying an annuity or other insurance
product. A third would be tasked with systemic considerations,
absorbing some of the extraordinary roles that the Fed has taken
on during the current crisis, together with other solvency
issues (often overseen by state insurance regulators).  The main challenge of such a design would be striking
compromises across agencies and communicating crucial
information among them. A new board could be set up consisting
of the heads of the three agencies, together with a small number
of other Senate-appointed representatives. The minutes of this
new board would be publicly released (possibly with a delay), so
that the trade-off decisions were transparent and the
responsibility for them clearly allocated.  Monetary policy : Let’s examine the three goals of financial
regulation, starting with price stability. The relevant agency
here is the Fed, which is charged with making the monetary
policy that keeps prices stable.  During the 2008 financial crisis and its aftermath,  the Fed 
overstepped its boundaries by acting to ensure the stability of
the financial system. It has been under severe attack by
Congress, which would like to limit its discretion.  Bad Design  Congress is correct, though the Fed’s missteps are the
fault not of its governors but of bad institutional design. By
dividing the three major responsibilities of financial
regulation among three separate agencies, my proposed
architecture allows for having a fully independent monetary-
authority board and a politically accountable financial-
stability board.  Curbing risk: The market should be able to assess the risks
of  large financial institutions . But it cannot do so if market
players know that those institutions will be bailed out in a
crunch. Simply outlawing the “too big to fail” policy might
prove very costly one day, preventing Congress from acting as
catastrophe looms.  Fortunately, there may be another solution. The
government’s reason for bailing out large financial institutions
isn’t that they are so large that their demise would bring down
the whole system. Rather, it is that they have such extensive
interconnections with other financial institutions -- through
their various transactions, obligations and contracts -- that a
default might trigger losses among an enormous number of
counterparties.  To function properly, the financial system needs to operate
under the assumption that certain  assets , such as deposits, are
worry-free. But this trust can be sustained only if people don’t
question the prompt and full repayment of so-called sensitive or
systemically relevant obligations. People need to know that even
if their banks collapse, not just deposits but also short-term
interbank borrowing and the network of derivative contracts are
secure.  Once we understand that the issue is the interconnectedness
of large financial institutions, and therefore the stability of
the larger system, we can make some important distinctions. Not
all of the debt issued by large financial institutions and not
all of the transactions they engage in are systemically relevant
or in need of comprehensive protection. Specifically, long-term
debt isn’t systemically relevant, because it is mostly held not
by large financial institutions but within the massive
portfolios of mutual and pension funds, which can absorb losses.  Systemically Relevant  The solution is regulation that protects the systemically
relevant obligations of large financial institutions -- making
sure that these institutions, not the taxpayers, would repay the
obligations in case of bankruptcy.  But that leaves open the possibility that nonsystemically
relevant obligations wouldn’t be protected. Under this new
system, banks would be required to hold two layers of  capital  to
protect their systemically relevant obligations. The first would
be basic equity. This isn’t very different from today’s standard
capital requirement, except that the amount of equity required
would be determined not by an accounting formula but by a market
assessment of the risk contained in the second layer.  That second layer would consist of so-called junior long-
term debt, which means that the institution would repay it only
after making good on its other debt. This debt would therefore
involve more risk for those who bought it, as well as higher
rates of return. It would provide an added layer of protection
because, in the event the institution defaulted, it could be
paid back only after other, more systemically relevant
obligations had been repaid. Perhaps most important, because
this layer of debt would be traded without the assumption that
it would always be protected by federal bailouts, it would make
possible a genuine market assessment of its value and risk --and
therefore of the value and risk of the financial institution
itself.  The crucial innovation of the approach I proposed with
Oliver Hart, of  Harvard University , is that the second layer of
capital would allow for a market-based trigger to signal that a
company’s equity cushion was thinning, that its long-term debt
was potentially in danger, and that the institution was taking
on too much risk. If that warning mechanism provided accurate
signals and the regulator intervened in time, even the junior
long-term debt would be paid in full. If not, the institution
might burn through some of the junior debt layer, but its
systemically relevant obligations would generally still be
secure.  Large banks would have to show the regulator that they had
enough collateral (in the form of equity) to ensure that all of
their debt -- not just the systemically relevant part -- could
be paid in full. And if declines in the value of their
underlying assets put the banks’ debt at greater risk, the
regulator could force them either to post additional capital or
to submit to liquidation. Either way, debt would be repaid.  Swift Response  The success of this system rests, of course, on the timely
intervention of the regulator. Thus it is essential to have an
effective mechanism that assesses risk and triggers a swift
response.  Such a trigger would be market-based, tied to the price of
a security traded in a market with a lot of liquidity and
therefore stability. And its price should be closely linked to
the financial event we want information about: whether an
 institution’s long-term debt  is at risk.  There is one security that is linked to bond prices but
remains very liquid -- the credit-default swap, essentially an
insurance claim that pays off if the underlying entity fails and
creditors aren’t paid in full. Since a CDS is basically a bet on
the odds of a particular company’s failure, its price reflects
the market’s assessment of how likely it is that the debt won’t
be repaid in full. Under our system, the CDS price for a bank’s
long-term debt would be used to gauge the risk of the equity
cushion’s being devoured by losses. If the price were to rise
above a critical threshold, the regulator would force the
institution in question to issue equity by offering new stock
for sale. If the price then didn’t fall below that threshold
within a predetermined period, the regulator would intervene.  Credit-default swaps are often cited as a cause of the
financial crisis. The problem, though, wasn’t with CDSs but with
the way they were traded: in opaque markets in which companies
could sell the swaps without posting the proper collateral. When
traded in an organized exchange with proper collateral, the CDS
is a useful instrument for reducing exposure to credit risk.  Fortunately, there is a clear trend toward moving credit-
default swaps onto exchanges, which will require better
collateralization to protect exchange members.  What form should the regulator’s intervention take? If the
trigger were set off by a CDS price that was too high, the
regulator would be required to subject the financial institution
to a  stress test . If the bank failed the test, the debt was
found to be at risk, and issuing equity didn’t improve its
situation, then the regulator would replace the institution’s
chief executive officer with a receiver or trustee. This person
would be required to recapitalize and sell the company,
guaranteeing in the process that shareholders were wiped out and
junior creditors took a “haircut,” meaning that the value of
what they were owed would be reduced by a set percentage.  This regulatory receivership would avoid bankruptcy’s worst
cost: the possibility that one company’s failure could take down
the entire financial system.  (Luigi Zingales is professor of entrepreneurship and
finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, a
contributor to  Business Class  and a contributing editor of City
Journal. This is the last of three excerpts from his new book,
“A Capitalism for the People: Recapturing the Lost Genius of
American Prosperity,” which will be published in June by Basic
Books, a member of The Perseus Books Group. The opinions
expressed are his own. Read  Part 1  and  Part 2 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  private space
exploration  and  fighting childhood obesity ; William Pesek on
 Hong Kong’s growth concerns ;  Noah Feldman  on  China’s social-
media censorship ; Josh Barro on  taking over failing cities .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Luigi Zingales  at  Luigi.Zingales@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  