-- Toyota Tsunami Recovery to Be Seen in 93% U.S. Sales Gain
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-05-31T01:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/toyota-tsunami-recovery-to-be-seen-in-93-u-s-sales-gain.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  is coming back
strong in the U.S. This time, Ernie Boch Jr. sees it lasting.  A year ago, as the company was recovering from record
recalls, Toyota was like a woozy heavyweight boxer just
returning to his feet, said Boch, a dealer 30 minutes outside
 Boston . Then,  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami hit in March 2011,
halting vehicle assembly and leading to shortages from May
through August.  “The tsunami came, and just -- boom! -- right back down on
the mat,” said Boch, president of a Toyota store in Norwood,
 Massachusetts . “The reduction of inventory hurt us. Now, it’s
back.”  The extent of Toyota’s recovery will show in its May sales
results, set to be released tomorrow. The Japanese automaker
probably rode gains from new models such as the Camry sedan and
Prius line of hybrids to a 93 percent increase in deliveries of
cars and light trucks, the average estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Total light-vehicle deliveries in May could surge 31
percent to 1.39 million, the average of nine analysts’ estimates.
Industry sales may run at a 14.4 million seasonally adjusted
annualized  rate , the average of 14 estimates, keeping the U.S.
on pace for its best year since 2007. The May 2011 sales rate
was 11.7 million, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Boch Toyota sold about 400 new vehicles this month, led by
Camry and Corolla cars as well as Seqouia and Land Cruiser
sport-utility vehicles -- which the dealership ran out of at
times in 2011 -- Boch said. He boosted salaried pay for some
employees last year to make up for depressed commissions when
sales slid as low as 210 vehicles a month.  ‘Everything is Moving’  “People are out there buying more than they were a year
ago, and we have the bullets,” said John Horton, president of
San Francisco Toyota, where sales more than doubled in May from
a year earlier. “Our hybrids are hot. Everything is moving.”  Toyota and  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , which analysts estimate
reporting the industry’s second-biggest sales increase, lost
production of hundreds of thousands of vehicles after last
year’s tsunami in Japan and floods in  Thailand . Toyota may gain
almost 1 percentage point of U.S. market share this year and
retain third place behind  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Ford Motor Co.,
analysts estimated earlier in the year.  The Japanese company has recovered from the recall of more
than 10 million vehicles in 2009 and 2010 related to unintended
acceleration. In the first three months of this year, Toyota
sold the most cars and trucks in the world. Toyota will probably
remain No. 3 in the U.S. market for the month behind GM, which
sold the most vehicles globally last year, and  Ford (F) , according
to estimates.  Honda Gaining  Honda deliveries may climb 53 percent, the average of seven
analysts’ estimates. The Tokyo automaker entered May having
reported year-over-year sales declines in 10 of the last 12
months, as the natural disasters sapped supply of Civic compacts,
Accord sedans and CR-V SUVs.  Chrysler Group LLC probably will lead U.S. automakers with
a 40 percent sales increase from a year earlier, the average
estimate of nine analysts. The automaker ran a national
 promotion  the last 10 days of May, offering some buyers no
monthly payments for 90 days.  “The Japanese competitors are now back fully in the
marketplace,”  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of
Chrysler and its majority owner  Fiat SpA (F) , told reporters on May
24. “It’s something that we have not had to deal with,
effectively, over the last 12 months.”  ‘Artificial’ Increases  The year-over-year market share gains for Japan-based
automakers are “artificial” because of their depressed results
last year,  Brian Johnson , an analyst at Barclays Plc, wrote in a
May 24 report. GM and Ford may combine to gain about 1
percentage point of market share compared with April, Johnson
wrote.  GM’s May deliveries probably rose 15 percent, the average
of 10 analysts’ estimates. The Detroit automaker’s U.S. market
share through April slipped 1.9 percentage points from a year
earlier to 17.7 percent. GM shuffled its sales team on May 17,
naming Alan Batey to the new position of vice president of U.S.
sales and service.  “GM had such an abundance of Chevy Cruze, which was a good
substitute for Corolla and Civics” during Toyota and Honda
model shortages last year, said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst at
industry researcher Edmunds.com. “They had some good gains in
2011 that have been a little bit tougher to replicate in 2012.”  Ford Gains  Ford sales probably gained 12 percent, the average estimate
of 10 analysts surveyed. The automaker is adding production at
some North American plants to keep up with demand and boost
output by 400,000 vehicles on an annualized basis.  “Sales of some hot-selling products such as Focus, F-
Series with EcoBoost, and Explorer were impacted by tight
inventory,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Patrick Archambault wrote in a May 21 report. “This is something that
Ford is trying to address through increased capacity.”  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , which began production this month of its
revamped Altima sedan, may report a 29 percent gain in
deliveries for the month, the average of seven estimates.  Korea ’s  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  may combine
to sell 17 percent more vehicles than a year earlier, the
average of six analysts’ estimates.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , which is on pace to exceed its target for
selling more than 500,000 vehicles in the U.S. this year, may
increase combined sales of its Volkswagen and Audi brand
vehicles by 33 percent in May, the average of four analysts’
estimates.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from May 2011. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted
annualized rate, or SAAR, are in millions of light vehicles.  May had 26 selling days, two more than the year-earlier
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  