-- Pace of Rising Health Costs May Slow for U.S., Study Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/pace-of-rising-health-costs-may-slow-for-u-s-study-says.html
Cheap walk-up health clinics, lower
costs for drugs and medical supplies and state laws requiring
hospitals to publish prices may be helping to reduce the
increase in U.S. health costs.  Health-care costs  are expected to rise 7.5 percent in 2013,
or 5.5 percent when accounting for changes in insurance
benefits, such as higher deductibles and co-payments,
PricewaterhouseCoopers said in its  annual report  on the nation’s
medical cost trend. It is the fourth year in a row the annual
cost increase is less than 8 percent.  “Four years of historically low growth is noteworthy and
we may be at the start of a new normal,” said Ceci Connolly,
managing director of the company’s Health Research Institute, in
a phone interview.  Health-care cost trends are important to consumers and
employers, whose insurance premiums depend in large part on how
fast prices increase in doctors’ offices, drug stores and
hospitals. Cost trends also reverberate in  Washington , where
even small changes in the expected increase for health programs
such as Medicare, the U.S. plan for the elderly and disabled, 
may impact the government’s budget deficits.  The Health Research Institute projected 9 percent growth in
costs in 2010 and 2011 and now estimates  actual growth  in those
years was as much as 2 percentage points lower, according to the
report. The U.S. annual inflation rate was 2.3 percent in April.  Decade Trend  The government and independent analysts have noted lower
health-cost growth since the beginning of the decade. National
health  spending  grew 9.5 percent in 2002, according the U.S.
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, a rate that slowed
to 3.9 percent by 2010, the most recent year available.  The reasons for the slowdown aren’t well understood, said
Charles Roehrig, vice president of health-care economics at the
Altarum Center for Sustainable Health Spending, a nonprofit
research group in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan .  “Until we understand why it dropped in the first place we
really won’t know with any confidence how much the moderation
will hold in the future,” he said in a telephone interview.
“I’m kind of the opinion that we may see some acceleration as
we get into the next few years.”  The Pricewaterhouse researchers agree; they say the 2010
health-care law, which will expand insurance coverage to more
than 30 million Americans without it beginning in 2014, may
cause “a spike in spending.”  Changing Practices  Meanwhile, changes in the health industry and state laws
may be holding down spending growth, Connolly said.  Hospitals, which have been expanding through consolidation
and by purchasing doctors’ practices, have been able to
negotiate lower prices for supplies such as cardiac stents and
hip implants, the report said.  Individuals and employers shopping for insurance are
increasingly choosing plans with high annual deductibles of
$1,200 or more. About 13.5 million Americans were in such plans
in 2011, according to a report yesterday from America’s Health
Insurance Plans, an industry trade group, an increase of 18
percent from a year earlier.  People enrolled in the high-deductible plans, which can be
paired with tax-free  savings accounts  for out-of-pocket health
expenses, tend to shop around more for health care, Connolly
said. They may also avoid or postpone costly care, she said.  Retail health clinics that employ nurse-practitioners
instead of physicians for routine primary care such as
vaccinations charge as much as 80 percent less than emergency
rooms and are increasingly popular with patients, the report
said.  Generic Drugs  The pharmaceutical industry saw drugs worth $28 billion in
U.S. sales lose patent protection in 2011, leading to
competition from cheaper generics. Another $26 billion worth of
brand-name drugs will go off patent in 2012, according to the
Pricewaterhouse report.  And in what Connolly said is a little-noticed development,
37 states now require hospitals and clinics to publish at least
some information about their prices. These price transparency
laws have helped control cost growth by making it easier for
consumers to shop for health care and for insurers to negotiate
rates with health providers, she said.  “This is being driven ultimately by the consumer,”
Connolly said. “Individual patients who need to know what
something is going to cost and what they’re going to pay for it,
and employers, who still pay for much of the health care
delivered in this country.”  The new U.S. health law hasn’t had as much effect, she
said, because many of its provisions won’t start until 2014. The
law may have “accelerated or accentuated” developments such as
the growth of cheaper primary care clinics and increased
coordination between hospitals and doctors, Connolly said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  