-- Paramo Says Spain Has Sold Enough Debt to Gain Room on Bank Aid
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-05-31T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/paramo-says-spain-has-sold-enough-debt-to-gain-room-on-bank-aid.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo comments on monetary policy
and the region’s debt crisis.  He made the remarks in an interview in  Frankfurt .  On Spanish banking-sector recapitalization:  “I’m far from stating a ranking of measures. Logic tells
you, some banks will generate profits and will be able to retain
profits. Secondly, you still have some potential for
deleveraging in non-core business, and thirdly, the government
has front-loaded the issuance program this year so there is some
room in case of need for public funds through the FROB, the fund
to recapitalize banks. It’s for the government to decide which
is the way they should push. Also, having known what is the cap
that has to be covered, there is now progress on the external
evaluation of the banking-sector needs and these will be known
in one month time.”  On the European Stability Mechanism recapitalizing banks:  “We have always favored that the ESM would be able to
recapitalize banks directly instead of going through
governments. In that way, you maintain a reinforced link between
the sovereign and the banking system.”  On Spanish Prime Minister’s request to restart bond purchases:  “We have explained time and again that the Securities
Markets Program is a monetary policy instrument that was created
at a very special time to tackle disruptions in sovereign bond
markets. We are silent on how we use it and when. We know it
with a one-week delay when we publish the information.”  “I didn’t imply anything. I said this is a program that
has the  euro-zone  interest in sight. It’s part of the tool box
and used in conjunction with all the other monetary policy
instruments.”  On new non-standard measures:  “We assess and evaluate in real time what goes on in the
markets. Now, non-standard measures are focusing on keeping the
financial system, the banking system working so that the
monetary-policy transmission mechanism is effective. This means
in different situations, we have to use different measures,
tailored to the problem at stake. With all this talk about
additional” Long Term Refinancing Operations, “we should not
forget that the two LTRO’s announced last year were addressed to
very specific funding problems in the banking system. And thanks
to these two operations, the funding of the banking system in
the euro zone is well covered into 2013. So, depending on the
issues that the Governing Council would identify, you’ll see
either more measures or no measures because the previous ones
still have some time to go. They have not had the full effect
we’re expecting.”  “The message is, we study in real time and never pre-
commit.”  On whether first-quarter gross domestic product reduces downside
risks to growth:  “This will have to be seen. You’re talking about data on
quarterly GDP. This is a very important element but just one of
the elements. You will have information next week on the
projections of the Eurosystem and more soft information. It
remains to be seen what the judgment of the Governing Council
is. Up to this moment, we stick to our view that there are
downside risks to the outlook, but on inflation risks remain
balanced.”  On the existence of an ECB task force on a Greek exit:  “I don’t comment on rumors.”  On ECB reaction on bank runs in Greece or Spain:  “It has to be clearly spelled out what is meant by deposit
run. What I can say is the following: There are preventive
measures in order to tackle these things which have to do with
the general economic policy environment of the country, which
has to be sound and credible. But you also have measures at the
level of the financial system in the countries including the
 deposit insurance . From the point of view of the central bank,
we address liquidity problems. We lend to solvent banks against
good collateral.”  On ECB challenges going forward:  “The ECB cannot fill the vacuum created by inaction of
stakeholders. We will keep reminding the governments in
particular of the need to act with the maximum speed they could.
We have in place now a clear design of the future of the euro
zone. It remains our destiny in common. There’s no question
about that. We contribute to the integrity of the currency. We
do it, not just by sticking to our mandate, which is having
monetary policy that preserves price stability and contributes
to financial stability, but also by contributing to the design
of a stronger, more stable  Europe . We have been very vocal in
this. We need more of a financial union and we will contribute
as much as possible through the consultations -- how to make
resolutions more pan-European, deposit insurance at the level of
the euro zone and all these things. We will work in that
direction.”  On whether the euro area will have 17 members one year from now:  “I have no doubt. The euro is our destiny in common. And
remember, we have a number of countries knocking at the door.
You could see an even larger euro in terms of numbers. We will
be stronger. Not smaller, not weaker, but stronger.”  On governments’ failure to appoint a successor:  “Institutions should function normally. That’s for the
benefit of all. So the sooner they make this appointment, the
better. There may be reasons justifying why they couldn’t come
to an agreement.”  On whether the appointment delay weighs on ECB credibility:  “I don’t think so. We continue to deliver. We function in
a way that the institution can function normally for a few weeks
time but it’s certainly not for the benefit of the institutional
set-up, going beyond the ECB and such. The sooner they make this
appointment, the better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  