-- Patagonia Protests Lead Colbun to Backpedal on Chile Dam
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-05-31T15:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/patagonia-protests-lead-endesa-partner-to-backpedal-on-chile-dam.html
Chile ’s biggest dam project, already
saddled by protests over plans to  flood 14,000 acres  of
Patagonia wilderness, suffered a fresh setback after one of its
investors said the venture lacks political support to proceed.  Santiago-based power company  Colbun SA (COLBUN) , which holds 49
percent of 2,750-megawatt HidroAysen, said last night it wants
to indefinitely suspend plans to seek environmental permission
to build transmission lines to the capital. Empresa Nacional de
Electricidad SA, known as Endesa, owns the remaining 51 percent.  Colbun, in  a statement  filed with Chile’s securities
regulator, said the country needs broader consensus on its
 energy policy  before HidroAysen can advance. Nationwide protests
against the dam, plus delays in other generation projects, have
investors concerned the state isn’t providing enough support,
Celfin Capital SA’s Cesar Perez said.  “This is a project that has tremendous opposition, not
only at the domestic level but also at the international
level,” Perez, a managing director of the Santiago-based
financial services company, said in a phone interview. “They’re
not killing the project. What Colbun wants is a guarantee the
government will safeguard the investment.”  Colbun said it is open to making changes to HidroAysen’s
construction plans and ownership structure. Centrales
Hidroelectricas de Aysen SA, the joint venture company
developing HidroAysen, will consider Colbun’s recommendations in
future meetings, it said in a regulatory filing yesterday.  Brazil ’s  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , known as
Eletrobras, is in talks to invest in the project, La Tercera
newspaper reported April 29.  Cash Flows  Investors may be unfazed by yesterday’s setback, which
doesn’t affect the owners’ cash flows, Perez said. Colbun fell
for the first time in five days, declining 0.3 percent to 137
pesos at 10:32 a.m. in Santiago while Endesa, as the project’s
senior partner is known, was little changed.  HidroAysen involves building five dams for an estimated
$3.2 billion and 1,900 kilometers (1,180 miles) of transmission
line to feed the grid that supplies Santiago as well as copper
mines operated by state-owned Codelco and  Anglo American Plc. (AAL)   The Chilean government has been exploring the hydroelectric
potential of the Baker and Pascua rivers in the Aysen region
since the 1940s. Endesa and Colbun presented the first study on
the project in 2007 and won environmental approval last year to
build the dams.  Vulnerable Species  Environmentalists including Douglas Tompkins, who walked
away from his Esprit Holding Ltd. clothing company and moved two
decades ago to Patagonia to buy up land for conservation, say
the  power lines  would scar protected areas that are home to 13
endangered and vulnerable animal species, including the pudu,
the world’s smallest deer. Protests against the project last
year led to hundreds of arrests and millions of dollars in
damage to public property.  Chile, which is the world’s top copper producer, needs to
double its electricity generating capacity as mining companies
such as Codelco and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  plan $100 billion of
expansions, according to Chilean mining society Sonami. Codelco
and BHP have called on the government to speed up permitting for
new power generators.  The government devised a 20-year energy plan earlier this
year and is working with Congress to further improve the
investment climate, Energy Minister Jorge Bunster wrote in an e-
mailed statement following Colbun’s announcement.  Government intervention has also dissuaded energy
investments. In 2010, President Sebastian Pinera asked  GDF Suez (GSZ) 
SA,  Europe ’s largest natural-gas network operator, to scrap
plans to build a 540-megawatt coal-fired power plant on the
coastal site of Barrancones after environmental opposition.  Pinera Backlash  Colbun will wait until Pinera leaves office in 2014 before
trying to build HidroAysen, said  Patricio Navia , a Chilean
political scientist. The billionaire investor’s approval rating
stood at 24 percent in April, the lowest of any Chilean
president since the return of democracy in 1990, as student
protests erode support for the government.  “They don’t want their project to go down with Pinera,”
Navia, who teaches at  New York  University, said by phone from
Santiago. “Everyone knows that HidroAysen is going to get built
eventually. So why not do it when there’s less opposition?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  