-- Pembina Pipeline Declines for Eighth Straight Day: Calgary Mover
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-05-31T20:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/pembina-pipeline-declines-for-eighth-straight-day-calgary-mover.html
Pembina Pipeline Corp. (PBA)  fell for an
eighth session, its longest losing streak in almost three years,
reflecting the company’s increased exposure to  oil prices  and
natural-gas fractionation after the takeover of Provident Energy
Ltd.  The shares fell 1.1 percent to C$27.82 at the close in
Toronto. The company last had an eight-day losing streak in July
2009.  Pembina bought Provident for C$3.2 billion ($3.1 billion)
in April to add natural gas liquids assets to its pipeline
operations. The transaction added Provident’s extraction,
storage and transportation services to Calgary-based Pembina’s
7,500-kilometer (4,700-mile) pipeline network.  Provident exposes Pembina to price swings for processing
gas, said Megan MacNeill, an analyst at Haywood Securities Inc.
in  Vancouver , who doesn’t own any shares and rates them
outperform, advising investors to purchase the shares. “When
the price of oil declines, those margins get squeezed,” she
said.  Natural gas liquids including propane and butane can be
refined into a variety of products.  Oil markets influence natural gas liquids prices because
they compete in major markets,  Canada ’s Natural Energy Board
said. Oil futures in  New York  capped the biggest monthly drop in
more than three years on speculation that slowing U.S. economic
growth and the European debt crisis would cut fuel demand.  DBRS downgraded its rating on Pembina’s C$2.14 billion in
outstanding notes last month on an increased “business risk
profile” following the Provident acquisition.  Ashley Nuell, a spokeswoman for Pembina, didn’t respond to
a telephone message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  