-- Pet Relocation for Community College President Covered in N.J.
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-05-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/pet-relocation-for-community-college-president-covered-in-n-j-.html
New Jersey ’s Essex County College
paid $680 to relocate the incoming president’s pet. The state’s
Brookdale Community College reimbursed the now-retired president
$41,000 for his childrens’ university tuition.  Governing boards at New Jersey’s community colleges agreed
to augment presidents’ salaries with those perks in recent
years, along with housing allowances, country-club memberships
and airfare for spouses to travel to conventions, according to a
report yesterday by state Comptroller Matthew Boxer. They also
paid for country-club memberships and automobiles.  Governor Chris Christie yesterday called the findings
“disturbing” and ordered an investigation. New Jersey’s two-
year colleges, which serve all 21 counties, market themselves as
an affordable way for 260,000 students to fulfill core
requirements and transfer credits to four-year universities.  “It’s not fair to the tuition-payers and their families,
and it’s not fair to the taxpayers who subsidize at the county
level and the state level the operations of county colleges,”
Christie, 49, a first-term Republican, told reporters in Trenton
when asked about the report.  Christie said he told Secretary of Higher Education
Rochelle Hendricks to conduct a “thorough review and
investigation” of the compensation packages. A majority of the
colleges’ voting board members are appointed by county
governments.  Boxer’s Review  Boxer began reviewing executive pay at the schools last
year after newspaper reports about such arrangements led to the
resignations of presidents at Brookdale and Gloucester County
College.  New Jersey community colleges received $1.4 billion in
revenue in 2010, with tuition and student fees accounting for 31
percent. State, county and local grants and appropriations made
up 37 percent, according to the report.  In three cases, community colleges paid annual base
salaries that exceeded $300,000, according to the report.  Twelve of the institutions covered housing costs as high as
$3,500 a month, according to the report. The president of Bergen
County Community College used the school credit card to charge
$16,600 in 2010 for meals, liquor and entertainment. Thirteen
executive contracts contained housing allowances that averaged
$1,746 per month, Boxer’s report said.  “There are huge disparities in not only the salaries of
community-college presidents, but other forms of their
compensation as well,” Boxer said in a statement. “We’re not
suggesting a one-size-fits-all approach, but it’s appropriate to
set boundaries when schools are spending taxpayer dollars.”  ‘Very Difficult Jobs’  Norma Kent, a spokeswoman for the Washington-based  American
Association  of Community Colleges, said compensation is
typically is set when a president’s contract gets approved by
the governing board.  “Most community-college presidents have fairly standard
benefits considering the very difficult jobs they are tasked to
do,” Kent said in an e-mail.  Lawrence Nespoli, president of the Council of County
Colleges, a Trenton-based lobbying group, didn’t immediately
return a message.  The audit was issued as New Jersey suffers fiscal stress.
State government’s revenue may trail Christie’s projections by
as much as $1.3 billion through June 2013,  David Rosen , the
Legislature’s chief budget analyst, said May 23. Treasurer
Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said the two-year shortfall is $676
million.  Lobbyists’ Appeal  The numbers prompted Christie, a 49-year-old Republican
midway through his first term, to reverse a “pay-as-you-go”
plan for funding $1.6 billion in transportation spending for the
fiscal year that begins July 1. The state instead will remove
$260 million in cash funding from that budget and apply it to
operations, then issue bonds for that amount for road work.  Every year, the schools’ lobbyists appeal to legislators
not to cut funding, particularly a state-paid scholarship for
top high-school graduates that pays tuition for as many as five
semesters. Christie signed legislation May 3 that preserves the
program, called NJ STARS, with $13.8 million, a 16 percent
decrease from current funding.  “When we’re fighting to try and justify to the public a
greater investment in higher education, you have peoples’
country-club memberships being paid for by tuition or tax
dollars at county colleges,” Christie said at a news conference
yesterday in Trenton.  Average Payments  The average total payments to New Jersey’s community-
college presidents exceeded $250,000 in 2010, Boxer’s audit
found. The largest amount, $441,000, went to the then-president
of Union County College, who was on sabbatical that year. While
he received full pay and benefits, the college concurrently paid
another person to perform his duties, Boxer said.  Brookdale, in Lincroft, paid $27,382 for tuition for the
president’s children in 2010, and an additional $13,375 to cover
the income-tax liability related to those reimbursements,
Boxer’s office found.  The president of Essex County College in  Newark , Edythe
Abdullah, had the largest base salary, $245,250, plus a $3,500
monthly housing allowance and unlimited use of a Lincoln MKZ
luxury sedan. The school, with the sixth-largest enrollment
among the community colleges, also paid more than $20,000 for
her to move from Florida, and covered more than $20,000 in other
expenses, including $3,500 in mobile phone bills.  Comparable Pay  The pay and housing allowance for Abdullah is comparable to
that of her counterparts, according to Reginald T. Jackson,
chairman of the school’s trustees.  “Most of the use of the car is from college businesses,”
Jackson said in a phone interview yesterday. “It’s not an
extravagance. Dr. Abdullah -- we brought her here from  Florida .
She needed some place to live. Some colleges provide a house for
the president. County College does not.”  Joseph Cavaluzzi, a spokesman for Bergen Community College,
said by phone yesterday that the school made changes to
compensation with the appointment of Jose Adames as interim
president in July 2011. The chief executive’s expense account
was cut in half, to $25,000, and the college no longer allows
the president to entertain trustees or purchase alcoholic drinks
for daytime meals.  Brookdale President Peter Burnham resigned in March 2011
after county officials questioned his perks, including the money
for his childrens’ college. Burnham was paid a $216,000 salary,
and his total compensation was more than $300,000, according to
Boxer’s report.  Boxer found that Brookdale paid more than $11,000 in dues
and other fees for its president’s membership to a country club
in 2010. That school also paid $10,574 for his lodging expenses,
including $900 for five stays at a hotel that was about 90
minutes from the Brookdale campus. College officials were unable
to explain why the president needed to stay at this hotel,
according to Boxer’s report.  Avis McMillon, a spokeswoman for Brookdale, didn’t return
telephone calls for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  