-- Philip Morris, BAT, Japan Tobacco Battle Putin’s Anti-Smoke Plan
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-05-31T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/philip-morris-bat-battle-putin-s-russian-smoking-crackdown.html
Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  and
 British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  are leading cigarette makers
seeking to derail Russian plans to crack down on smoking in the
world’s largest tobacco market after China.  The companies, along with  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) , are trying to
convince the government to scale back a plan to restrict the
sale, advertising and public use of cigarettes, they said May
30. BAT,  Europe ’s largest tobacco company, is seeking a
“mutually acceptable decision,” it said in an e-mail.  President  Vladimir Putin  has backed curbs on smoking as
part of a wider effort to stem the country’s population decline.
A  draft law  published by the Health Ministry May 20 calls for
outlawing all cigarette advertising immediately, ending retail
sales at kiosks within 18 months and banning smoking in public
buildings such as bars and restaurants in three years.  “While we support comprehensive and effective tobacco
regulation, the Health Ministry’s bill contains a number of
extreme measures that will not reduce smoking and are likely to
lead to adverse consequences,” Irina Zhukova, a spokeswoman in
Moscow for Marlboro-maker  Philip Morris , said by e-mail May 30.  Russia, where a pack of Marlboros goes for about $2,
already approved raising its excise tax on cigarettes by 40
percent a year through 2015.  ‘Russian Realities’  The  World Health Organization  estimates that about 39
percent of Russia’s 143 million people are habitual smokers,
compared with 28 percent in China and 27 percent in the U.S.
Smoking-related diseases kill 23 percent of Russian men and
cause economic damages equal to 6.3 percent of gross domestic
product, according to the Health Ministry, which says its draft
law could save 200,000 lives a year.  Any legislative changes “should take into account the
realities of the Russian market,” BAT said. Any new
restrictions “should be reasonable, well thought-out and
consistent,” the press service of the London-based company, the
maker of Kent,  Pall Mall  and Dunhill brands, said in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg.  The international unit of Japan Tobacco, the maker of the
Camel and Winston brands, relies on the region encompassing
 Russia , the other ex-Soviet states without the Baltic countries,
former Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia and Mongolia for
46 percent of its global sales in terms of volume, according to
the company’s website.  The Tokyo-based company,  Asia ’s largest cigarette producer
by market value, is hopeful the new government will amend the
draft law. Putin, who returned to the Kremlin for a third term
in May, replaced the health minister who submitted the tobacco
legislation, Tatyana Golikova, as part of a broader reshuffling
of the Cabinet.  ‘Achieve the Goals’  “There is hope that the new government is trying to work
effectively to produce a law that really works and can achieve
the goals set by the Health Ministry,” Anatoly Vereshchagin, a
spokesman for  Japan Tobacco in  Moscow, said by phone.  The  tobacco companies  say that a total ban on smoking in
public places and on advertising cigarettes is too draconian,
while ending kiosk sales will only end up hurting small
businesses. They also argue that steep tax increases won’t
impact demand as much as the ministry hopes because it will only
lead to a flood of cheaper imports from neighboring countries
such as Belarus,  Kazakhstan  and  China .  Russia has already asked Belarus and Kazakhstan, its
partners in a customs union, to raise their excise taxes on
cigarettes to prevent this from happening, Finance Minister
Anton Siluanov said May 30.  Cigarette Price  The  Finance Ministry  says the average price for a pack of
“inexpensive” cigarettes will rise to ($1.19) 40 rubles in
2014 from 16.50 rubles last year, while prices for the “most
popular” brands will rise to 61 rubles from 36 rubles.  The World Health Organization, which helped the Health
Ministry draft the legislation, is worried that cigarette makers
may succeed in watering down the ministry’s bill.  “It is a huge concern,” said Natalya Toropova, program
coordinator for the WHO’s Tobacco Control program in Moscow.
“There is interference of the tobacco industry in public health
all over the world, and specifically in Russia,” Toropova said
by phone. The fact that the ministry’s bill hasn’t been
submitted to parliament yet shows “that the tobacco industry is
interfering,” she said.  Japan Tobacco has about 36 percent of the Russian cigarette
market, followed by 26 percent for Philip Morris, 21 percent for
BAT and 7 percent for London-based  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) ,
according to AC Nielsen Co., a market research company.  Smoking Rates  None of the companies make their sales in Russia public.
BAT would only say that 33 percent of the 705 billion cigarettes
it distributed last year went to eastern Europe,  Africa  and the
 Middle East . Philip Morris said 32 percent of its global
cigarette sales were in the same region.  The government said in an October 2010 report that smoking
rates among women and minors had tripled in the previous five
years and that tobacco use caused about 500,000 deaths a year.
In some regions as many as 80 percent of men and 47 percent of
women smoke, the study found.  “The interests of the tobacco companies aren’t what this
law is about,” Health Ministry spokesman Alexander Vlasov said
by phone. “It’s about stopping people from suffering from this
damaging habit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  