-- Polish Economic Growth Slowed as Euro Turmoil Hurts Exports
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-05-31T09:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/polish-economic-growth-slowed-as-euro-turmoil-hurts-exports-2-.html
Poland ’s economic  growth  slowed in
the first quarter as euro-region turmoil hurt exports and fixed
investments, weakening the case for central bank rate increases.  Gross domestic product expanded 3.5 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a revised 4.3 percent increase in the
previous three months, the Warsaw-based  Central Statistics
Office  said today. The figure matched the median  estimate  of 33
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Output grew a seasonally
adjusted 0.8 percent from the previous quarter.  The European Union’s largest eastern economy, the only
member of the 27-nation bloc to avoid a recession in 2009, is
expected to grow 2.7 percent this year, the EU’s quickest pace,
the European Commission said on May 11. Fixed investment
growth slowed to 6.7 from a year earlier in the first quarter,
down from 9.7 percent in the fourth quarter, as sports
facilities and road upgrades are completed for European soccer
championships kicking off in Poland and Ukraine next month.  “Given the worsening situation in  Europe , the
psychological effects of the latest phase of the crisis and the
fading effects of UEFA-related infrastructure investments, we do
look for weaker performance in the coming quarters,” said Gabor Ambrus, an economist at 4CAST Ltd. in  London , wrote in an e-mail
after the data release. The data are “neutral” for Poland’s
central bank and “shall not support further monetary
tightening,” he said.  Zloty Gains  The zloty strengthened after the data to 4.3868 per euro at
11:26 a.m. in Warsaw, up 0.2 percent on the day. It has weakened
4.8 percent in May, the second-biggest decline among European
currencies after the Russian ruble, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The average  yield  on the government’s 10-year Treasury
bond fell 3 basis points to 5.453 percent.  With euro-area nations such as Spain and  Italy  slipping
into a recession after enacting austerity measures to fight the
debt crisis, Europe’s economy will fail to grow this year with
risks “tilted to the downside,” the Brussels-based commission
said on May 11. Unemployment at a 15-year high in the 17-nation
currency region continue to depress demand for Polish exports.  While Poland has relied on its 38 million consumers and EU-
aided infrastructure spending to keep growing, the country is
being hurt by the slump in the euro region, which buys 55
percent of its exports. Euro-region GDP will drop 0.3 percent
this year before expanding 1 percent in 2013, according to the
commission’s forecasts.  Industry Slows  Polish exports grew 4.8 percent from year earlier in the
first quarter, down from 7.8 percent in the previous quarter,
the statistics office said. Growth in industrial output, as
measured by its contribution to GDP, dropped to 3.4 percent in
the first quarter, from 6.6 percent in the previous quarter.  “What’s striking is that industrial growth was the weakest
since the third quarter of 2009,” Wojciech Matysiak, an
economist at Bank Pekao SA in Warsaw, wrote in an e-mailed
research note today. “Manufacturing is particularly sensitive
to changes in the business climate and therefore a good leading
indicator for the rest of the economy.”  Economic growth  will keep slowing to about 3 percent in
the second and third quarters and total 3.1 percent for 2012,
Pekao’s Matysiak said. That compares with 3 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 36 economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  