-- Polish Economic Growth Slowed as Euro Turmoil Hurts Exports
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-05-31T08:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/polish-economic-growth-slowed-as-euro-turmoil-hurts-exports-1-.html
Poland’s  economic growth  slowed in
the first quarter as exports weakened amid euro-region turmoil
that reduced demand for exports.  Gross domestic product expanded 3.5 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a revised 4.3 percent increase in the
previous three months, the Warsaw-based  Central Statistics
Office  said today. The figure matched the median estimate of 33
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Output grew a seasonally
adjusted 0.8 percent from the previous quarter.  The European Union’s largest eastern economy, the only
member of the 27-nation bloc to avoid a recession in 2009, is
expected to grow 2.7 percent this year, the EU’s quickest pace,
the European Commission said on May 11. Fixed investment
increased 6.7 from a year earlier in the fourth quarter, while
exports grew 4.8 percent and contributed 0.7 percentage point to
GDP growth, the statistical office said.  “With the most important GDP categories almost unchanged,
the reason for the slowdown lies mainly in net exports which is
likely to add only a bit to GDP growth,” Ernest Pytlarczyk,
chief economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw, said in a note before
today’s data were published. The economy will grow 2.8 percent
this year, he said.  The zloty strengthened after the data to 4.3863 per euro at
10:17 a.m. in Warsaw. It has weakened 4.8 percent in May, the
second-biggest decline among European currencies after the
Russian ruble, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The average
 yield  on the government’s 10-year Treasury bond fell 2 basis
points to 5.464 percent.  Euro Risks  With euro-area nations such as Spain and  Italy  slipping
into a recession after enacting austerity measures to fight the
debt crisis,  Europe ’s economy will fail to grow this year with
risks “tilted to the downside,” the Brussels-based commission
said on May 11. Unemployment at a 15-year high in the 17-nation
currency region will probably continue to depress demand for
Polish exports.  While Poland has relied on its 38 million consumers and EU-
aided infrastructure spending to keep growing, the country is
being hurt by the slump in the euro region, which buys 55
percent of its exports. Euro-region GDP will drop 0.3 percent
this year before expanding 1 percent in 2013, according to the
commission’s forecasts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  