-- Politics Aside, Obama Welcomes Bush Back to White House
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-05-31T19:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/politics-aside-obama-welcomes-bush-back-to-white-house.html
President  Barack Obama , who rarely
passes up a chance to highlight the “mess” he inherited when
he took office, put politics aside to welcome  George W. Bush  at
the White House for the unveiling of Bush’s official portrait.  The office of the president carries a unique weight that is
only truly understood by those who’ve carried it, Obama said
today at a ceremony in the East Room of the executive mansion.  “That’s why, from time to time, those of us who have had
the privilege to hold this office find ourselves turning to the
only people on earth that know the feeling,” he said. “We may
have our differences politically, but the presidency transcends
those differences.”  Bush joked that his portrait brings “an interesting
symmetry” to the White House portrait collection, the first of
which depicts  George Washington .  “It now starts and ends with a George W,” he said.  Obama earlier hosted a private lunch for the former two-
term Republican president and first lady  Laura Bush  in the Red
Room of the White House. They were joined by the ex-president’s
father, former President  George H.W. Bush , former first lady
Barbara Bush, as well as other members of the Bush family.  Among the guests at the ceremony were Republican political
strategist  Karl Rove , John Ashcroft, attorney general under
George W. Bush, and former Bush economic adviser Lawrence Lindsey.  Bush’s Portrait  Bush’s portrait, by artist John Howard Sanden, portrays him
standing in the center of the Oval Office, his right hand on an
arm chair. The former first lady’s portrait shows her in the
Green Room, which was refurbished under her direction in 2007.  Bush left the White House in January 2009, as the economy
was in free-fall and the U.S. was waging wars in Iraq and
 Afghanistan . The Republican former president frequently serves
as a foil for Democrat Obama in campaign speeches.  Obama says Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney is
promoting a repeat of Bush’s economic policies, which he blames
for contributing to the worst U.S. recession in more than seven
decades.  ‘Failed Policies’  “They either want to do nothing at all or they want to
double down on the same failed policies that got us into this
mess,” Obama said in a May 24 speech in Iowa. “We just tried
their ideas for nearly a decade and it didn’t work out.”  For today, presidential protocol trumped politics.  Bush separates the office from the “political rhetoric,”
and considers Obama’s criticism on the campaign trail “no big
deal,”  Tony Fratto , a former Bush spokesman, said in a
telephone interview.  “People have asked me whether it’ll be awkward,” Fratto
said. “Actually, it may be awkward for President Obama. As
President Bush would say, ‘This isn’t my first rodeo.’”  Bush has stayed off the political stage since leaving
office. He last appeared at the White House more than two years
ago, on Jan. 16, 2010, when Obama named Bush and former
President  Bill Clinton  to lead a humanitarian mission for
Haiti’s earthquake victims.  “There are certainly political differences” between the
two,  Jay Carney , Obama’s spokesman, said today at a briefing for
reporters in  Washington . “But there is so much in common for
the men, thus far, who have occupied this office.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  