-- Prudential US Acquisition
-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-05-31T11:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/prudential-us-acquisition.html
Prudential Plc, the U.K.’s biggest
insurer, agreed to buy a life insurance unit from  Swiss Re AG (SREN) 
for 398 million pounds ($621 million) in cash to expand in the
U.S.  Prudential will finance the acquisition of SRLC America
Holding Corp., which manages closed life insurance funds, from
existing cash holdings, London-based company said in a statement
today. The purchase is expected to be completed in the third
quarter, pending regulatory approval, it said.  The acquisition will increase and diversify Prudential’s
earnings in the U.S., where its Jackson National Life unit
currently gains most of its income from selling variable
annuities to  baby boomers  approaching retirement. SRLC holds
about 1.5 million life insurance policies and books profits by
releasing capital as they mature, Prudential said.  “This looks like an extremely attractive deal and is very
financially enhancing,”  Marcus Barnard , a London-based analyst
at Oriel Securities Ltd. with a buy rating on the stock said.
Prudential may increase its earnings forecast by between 2
percent and 5 percent, he said.  The acquisition will add about 100 million pounds of pretax
profit to Jackson National Life in the first year of ownership,
according to the statement. Prudential increased the unit’s 2013
cash generation target to 260 million pounds from 200 million
pounds.  ROE Boost  For Swiss Re, the transaction unlocks capital for use
across the group, and will boost the reinsurer’s return on
equity, earnings per share and economic net worth growth
targets, it said.  “Swiss Re sees attractive growth potential in the U.K. and
Continental  Europe ,” the company said in today’s statement.
“Admin Re will focus on these active areas with insurance deal-
flow as well as higher profitability,” Swiss Re said, referring
to its closed-life division.  Prudential climbed 1 percent to 679.5 pence in London
trading at 12:05 p.m., valuing the firm at about 17.3 billion
pounds. Swiss Re rose 1.3 percent to 55.7 Swiss francs.  Prudential’s  sales  rose 9 percent to 964 million pounds in
the first quarter, beating the 942 million-pound median  estimate 
of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The insurer this week appointed Paul Manduca, a former
chief executive officer of Deutsche Bank AG’s European asset
management unit, as chairman to replace Harvey McGrath.  Prudential Plc (PRU)  has no relation to Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential Financial Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  