-- PTT Still Competing With Shell to Acquire Cove, Pailin Says
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   Z e b   E c k e r t
-- 2012-05-31T07:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/ptt-still-competing-with-shell-to-acquire-cove-energy-ceo-says.html
PTT Pcl (PTT) , Thailand’s biggest company,
sees  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  remaining a competitive threat to its
bid to acquire  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  and a deal may be concluded this
year, Chief Executive Officer Pailin Chuchottaworn said.  The company’s  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  unit last
week raised its offer for the African explorer to 1.22 billion
pounds ($1.92 billion), or 240 pence a share, topping Shell’s
220-pence bid for access to one of the largest natural gas
discoveries in a decade.  “The competition is still on, and we believe that the
conclusion will come before the end of the year,” Pailin said
today in a Bloomberg Television interview in Bangkok. PTT will
watch how  Shell (RDSA)  responds before considering the possibility of
increasing its offer for Cove, he said.  Cove’s largest asset is an 8.5 percent holding in
Mozambique’s Rovuma Area 1, where a group led by  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  has found as much as 30 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas, more than three times the U.K.’s existing reserves.
After Shell’s bid, Anadarko announced a discovery in the area
holding between 7 trillion and 20 trillion cubic feet.  “This is our first move to secure reserves in  East
Africa ,” Pailin said. “Mozambique is naturally one of our
target areas.”  PTTEP said May 29 that Mozambique’s government approved its
offer for Cove, a 9 percent premium to Shell’s, removing the
risk it could block the Bangkok-based company’s bid. Shell,
which earlier raised its offer to match PTTEP and had itself
received approval from the  Mozambique  government for the
takeover, said last week it’s considering its options.  Mozambique Approval  Mozambique’s approval of PTTEP’s bid presents “an
opportunity, albeit remote, for Shell to come back with a
matching or improved options,” FirstEnergy Capital Corp. said
in a note to clients this week.  The discoveries open the way for Mozambique to become an
exporter of liquefied natural gas, shipping fuel to energy-
hungry Asian economies, including India and  China . For state-
controlled PTT, the acquisition of Cove offers Thailand secure
source of gas supply.  Moody’s Investors Service Inc. changed PTTEP’s outlook to
negative from stable on May 25, while maintaining its parent
company’s stable outlook. PTTEP may have to raise capital
following the acquisition,  Asia Plus Securities Pcl (ASP)  said in a
note to clients on May 24.  Myanmar  Pailin said PTT also plans to invest in neighboring
Myanmar, which supplies about a quarter of Thailand’s daily gas
consumption from offshore production in the Gulf of Martaban.  “We believe in the Myanmar economy,” he said. “We have a
good relationship with the government and at the moment we’re
putting our effort into beefing up the energy business in
Myanmar.”  Myanmar President Thein Sein is courting investment amid a
shift toward democracy over the past year that has encouraged
re-engagement with developed nations and the easing of economic
sanctions. General Electric Co. is among companies expressing
interest in Myanmar, a nation of 64 million people.  “We hope to be able to present the Myanmar government with
a comprehensive investment plan in the very near future,”
Pailin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Zeb Eckert in  Hong Kong  at 
 zeckert1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  