-- Qatar Fire Victims’ Parents Seek Expert Help in Investigation
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-05-31T11:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/qatar-fire-victims-parents-seek-expert-help-in-investigation.html
Jane and Martin Weekes, the New
Zealand parents of triplets killed in a May 28 mall fire in
Qatar, want outside experts brought in to help investigate the
blaze.  The Qatar government should “seek the support from
international fire and emergency experts to work alongside the
team here to gather the facts,” they said in an e-mailed
letter.  Their two-year-old triplets, Lillie, Jackson and Willsher,
along with 10 other children, four teachers and two
firefighters, were killed when the blaze broke out at Villaggio,
the country’s largest mall.  The victims became trapped in a child care facility as
smoke from the fire spread. Firefighters had to break a hole in
the roof of the mall to reach victims, who came from countries
including  Spain , the Philippines,  South Africa  and  Japan .  Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa Al Thani, the country’s
minister of state for internal affairs, said at a May 28 press
conference that the investigation would be handled internally.  The fire has raised questions about public safety in the
Persian Gulf emirate, the richest country per capita in the
world with a population that has more than doubled in the past
decade.  The biggest exporter of liquefied gas, Qatar’s stature has
grown in recent years after the country won the right to host
the 2022  World Cup  and its government supported uprisings in
Syria and  Libya .  Qatar’s public prosecutor ordered the detention of five
people, including the mall’s owner, manager and the owner of the
child care center, state-run Qatar News Agency said May 29.  The six-year-old Villaggio mall is designed to resemble an
Italian village, complete with canals and gondolas as well as an
amusement park, ice rink and cinema. The daycare facility was
located in the middle of the mall, accessed through two narrow
and winding hallways and up a flight stairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  