-- U.K. Celebrations Start to Mark Queen’s 60 Years on Throne
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-06-02T12:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/queen-s-diamond-jubilee-brings-four-days-of-u-k-celebrations.html
Britain marks Queen Elizabeth II’s 60
years on the throne with four days of street parties, pageantry
and concerts, underlining the widespread popularity of the
monarchy.  The Diamond Jubilee weekend got under way today when the
queen, 86, arrived at the Derby, the highlight of the flat
horse-racing season. It will culminate on June 5 with a day of
pageantry including a service of thanksgiving at  St. Paul’s
Cathedral  in central London, when Britons will enjoy an extra
public holiday.  Her televised arrival at Epsom race course, southwest of
London, showed the queen -- accompanied by her husband Prince Philip, 90 -- cheered by many of the estimated 150,000-strong
crowd.  Earlier, gun salutes were held in London, Edinburgh,
Cardiff and  Belfast  to make the anniversary of the coronation in
1953.  Only one British monarch has spent longer than the current
queen on the throne: Victoria, who reigned from 1837 to 1901.
Her  Diamond Jubilee in 1897 , captured on  grainy black-and-white
film , is the only precedent for this weekend’s events. It’s just
over a year since London’s streets saw the last major royal
event, the marriage of the queen’s grandson,  Prince William , to
 Kate Middleton .  ‘Resilient’  “For 60 years the queen has been a point of light in our
national life; brilliant, enduring and resilient,” Prime
Minister  David Cameron  wrote in a tribute to the monarch this
week for Parliament’s The House magazine. “Through a reign of
unparalleled change -- from postwar Britain through to the jet
age, space age and digital age -- she has remained resolutely
unchanged in her commitment to this country.”  The queen -- the 40th monarch in a line that began with
William the Conqueror in 1066 -- took the throne at a time when
Britain was recovering from the ravages of World War II, with
food rationing still in force, and beginning to grant
independence to its colonies.  Winston Churchill , who’d led the
country to wartime victory, was again prime minister, the first
of 12 who’ve held weekly audiences with the monarch.  Today’s big race at Epsom is an appropriate way for the
jubilee weekend to start. Owning and breeding racehorses is  one
of the queen’s main interests , though she’s never won the Derby.  Tomorrow, the focus switches to the  River Thames , when the
queen will join a flotilla of more than 1,000 vessels for the
 Diamond Jubilee Pageant .  Palace Concert  The following evening, there will be a concert outside
Buckingham Palace, the monarch’s central London residence,
featuring stars such as  Paul McCartney ,  Elton John  and  Tom Jones 
-- all of whom have been knighted by the queen.  The final day of the celebrations will see the queen and
the extended royal family attending the national service of
thanksgiving at St. Paul’s in London’s financial district on
June 5.  After a reception at the Mansion House hosted by the  Lord
Mayor  of London and lunch at the Houses of Parliament, the queen
and Prince Philip will return to  Buckingham Palace  in a horse-
drawn open carriage. The heir to the throne, Prince Charles, and
his wife Camilla will also be in the procession, along with
William and his wife and William’s brother, Prince Harry.  The climax of the event, just before 3:30 p.m., will see
those senior royals appear on the palace balcony, in time for a
flypast by planes of the Royal Air Force and a celebratory
cascade of rifle fire from the soldiers of the Queen’s Guard,
interspersed with the national anthem.  ‘Huge Deal’  A  YouGov Plc poll  conducted May 27 and May 28 found 86
percent of 1,743 respondents saying the queen had done a good
job as monarch. Of those surveyed, 73 percent said Britain
should continue to have a monarchy, up four points on a year
ago.  “It’s only really been over the last five, eight, 10 years
that I’ve really learned to understand and accept the huge deal
that she is around the world,” Harry said in an  ABC television
interview  that aired this week. “She has managed to get the
family to move with the times.”  The queen has weathered less popular times. Many found her
response to the 1997 death of  Princess Diana , an internationally
popular figure before and after the breakup of her marriage to
Prince Charles, to be cold and indifferent to the outpouring of
public grief. “Show Us You Care,” shouted a headline in the
Express newspaper before the queen broke days of silence over
the tragedy.  ‘Physical Energy’  Cameron, interviewed by Sky News television yesterday, was
asked whether he thought the queen might step down in favor of
her son, Prince Charles.  “I wouldn’t anticipate that,” he replied. “What I see in
Her Majesty is someone, in spite of the fact she’s been on the
throne for 60 years, in spite of the fact that her and Prince
Philip are now relatively elderly, there is an extraordinary
level of physical energy, mental energy, and above all devotion
to her people, to the institutions of this country, to the way
our democracy works.”  Paying his own jubilee tribute to the queen, the head of
the Church of  England , Archbishop of Canterbury  Rowan Williams ,
spoke of her sense of humor in their one-to-one meetings.  “I found in the queen someone who can be friendly, who can
be informal, who can be extremely funny in private -- and not
everybody appreciates just how funny she can be --, who is quite
prepared to tease and to be teased, and who, while retaining her
dignity always, doesn’t stand on her dignity in a
conversation,” he said in a video released by his office.  Economy  The celebrations may do little to help the economy, with
spending on food and drink and tourist revenue likely to be
offset by a loss of output as some companies shut down for the
entire week. The holiday is forecast to depress gross domestic
product in the second quarter, raising the risk that Britain
slides deeper into recession.  London  will see outbreaks of rain throughout the four-day
weekend, with today posting the highest temperatures, a maximum
of 22 degrees Celsius (71.6 Fahrenheit), according to the  Met
Office .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  