-- Rand Heads for Worst Month Since September on Growth Concerns
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-05-31T15:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/rand-pares-worst-month-since-september-on-signs-slump-overdone.html
The rand slumped to a six-month low,
set for its worst month since September, and bond yields fell as
investors added to bets the central bank will ease monetary
policy as  Europe ’s debt crisis weighs on the global economy.  South Africa ’s currency declined as much as 0.5 percent to
8.5808 per dollar, its weakest level since Nov. 25. It traded
0.4 percent down at 8.5657 as of 4 p.m. in Johannesburg,
bringing its decline this month to 9.2 percent, the most out of
16 major currencies monitored by Bloomberg. Yields on the
nation’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 dropped four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.39 percent.  The number of Americans applying for  unemployment benefits 
increased last week, the world’s biggest economy grew more
slowly in the first quarter than previously estimated, and
business activity expanded at a slower pace in May, reports
showed today. South African producer-price inflation slowed to a
one-year low in April, supporting the view the central bank may
keep  interest rates  unchanged or ease policy amid signs that
Europe’s debt crisis is threatening global economic growth.  “The market just keeps adding up negative factors,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of strategic research at Nedbank Capital, a
unit of Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone from Johannesburg.
“To be short of the dollar in the current circumstances is to
take your financial life in your hands.”  Producer Price Inflation  The cost of goods leaving factories and mines increased 6.6
percent compared with 7.2 percent in March, Pretoria-based
Statistics South Africa said on its website today. The median
estimate of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 6.9 percent.  “The PPI reading confirms the likelihood that South
African interest rates can simply remain on hold for an extended
period, while the Reserve Bank monitors the risks to inflation
and growth,”  Kevin Lings , an economist at Stanlib Asset
Management Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.  Forward-rate agreements starting in December dropped eight
basis points today to 5.40 percent, the lowest since November.
The yield is 20 basis points lower than the three-month
Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate, implying traders see a 40
percent probability of a 50 basis-point rate cut this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Reserve Bank has kept its key policy rate unchanged for
18 months at 5.5 percent, the lowest level in more three
decades, to help support the economy’s recovery. Slower growth
in factory-gate prices may ease pressure on consumer inflation,
which accelerated to 6.1 percent in April.  The central bank’s target is to keep consumer-price
inflation within a range of 3 percent to 6 percent. The
inflation rate probably peaked in the first quarter at an
average of 6.1 percent and may drop into the target band after
June,  Reserve Bank  Governor Gill Marcus said on May 24.  Commodities  “With commodity prices falling, equity markets under
pressure and  risk aversion  on the rise, the rand seems primed
for further weakness,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “In the current environment, any bad news is likely
to aggravate the rand’s demise.”  Commodities are poised for the biggest monthly loss in more
than three years. South Africa has the world’s biggest reserves
of minerals, according to Citigroup Inc. Raw materials account
for 45 percent of the nation’s exports. The MSCI  Emerging
Markets  stock index fell for a second day.  The rand’s three-month implied volatility against the
dollar rose to 20.07 percent today, the highest since January,
as options traders anticipate wider swings in the currency. The
rand’s implied volatility is the highest out of 16 major
currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  