-- Rat Paralysis Rehab Method Holds Clues for Aiding Humans
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-06-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/rat-paralysis-rehab-method-holds-clues-for-aiding-humans.html
Rats paralyzed by spinal cord
injuries walked and ran after nerve-stimulating chemicals
combined with electricity helped restore movement, according to
a study that may provide clues to rehabilitating injured humans.  The therapy helped stimulate new connections in the spinal
cord and brain, allowing nerve signals to reroute around the
site of the injury, said study author  Gregoire Courtine , an
associate professor at Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne
in  Switzerland . The study was published yesterday in the journal
 Science .  The research demonstrates that new connections can be
formed to the brain and it’s possible to do this through
rehabilitation therapy, said  V. Reggie Edgerton , a specialist in
spinal control at the  University of California ,  Los Angeles , who
last year helped a paraplegic man named Rob Summers stand for
the first time with the aid of an electronic stimulus device.  “I know there’s some controversy about whether
rehabilitation even helps, but this shows very clearly that
without rehab, you’re not going to get recovery,” Edgerton said
in a telephone interview.  The caveat is that the lesion that caused the paralysis in
the rats isn’t a common  spinal cord injury  in humans, Edgerton
said. The trauma to the rats was less severe, he said.  The researchers injected the animals with chemicals that
the body uses to spur nerve growth and simulated  neurons firing 
with electrical stimulation, priming the cells to make new
connections, according to the paper. Then the scientists
attached the rats to a robot system that held them on their hind
legs to help them regain walking ability. After a few weeks of
training, they began to step on their own toward chocolate
treats.  Robotic Training  The system was meant to simulate balance, Courtine said.
The device required the rats to push forward to move. After a
few more weeks, the rats were able to support their full body
weight on the hind legs, stepping up stairs to chase the
chocolate.  “This isn’t a cure for spinal cord injury,” Courtine
said. “It’s not a full recovery, and it only works when we
provide stimulation.”  Another set of rats, similarly paralyzed and treated, were
put on treadmills without the special robot. Those rats moved
their hind legs automatically when the forelegs moved on the
treadmill. They weren’t able to move on solid ground, as the
other animals did, the paper said.  Medtronic Device  Summers, the man who stood with the aid of a  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) 
device developed to control pain, was paralyzed from the chest
down, though he had feeling in his legs. Like the mice, he was
supported by a harness as he took steps on a treadmill. Courtine
believes new nerve connections grew to enable voluntary
movement.  Courtine plans to begin human trials with his method in
Zurich in the next two years, he said.  “There is so much despair in spinal cord injured people,
you don’t want to raise exaggerated hopes,” he said. “But we
hope to test this as best we can.”  The work was funded by the European Research Council, the
International Paraplegic Foundation, the Swiss National Science
Foundation, and others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 