-- Treasury Yields Fall to Records on Europe Debt Concern
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-05-31T21:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/treasury-yields-rise-from-record-low-as-european-stocks-advance.html
Treasuries rallied, pushing five-,
seven- and 10-year yields to record lows, amid concern the
 European debt crisis  is widening and as data showed the U.S.
economic expansion slowed during the first quarter.  The yield on the 10-year note  pared losses  as a report
indicated the  International Monetary Fund  was discussing
contingency plans for Spain’s banking crisis and a Greek poll
showed support for the largest pro-bailout party. Thirty-year
bond yields earlier  fell  to the lowest since December 2008 as
U.S. weekly jobless claims exceeded forecasts, stirring
speculation that tomorrow’s May employment data may trail
estimates. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its forecast for the 10-
year note yield.  The U.S. “is perceived as a liquidity haven and a quality
haven for the rest of the world,” said  Bill Gross , who runs the
world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with
 Trish Regan . Investors view U.S. government securities as
“mattress money that’s safe, as opposed to a risk.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.56 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York time.
The 1.75 percent security maturing in May 2022 gained 19/32, or
$5.94 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 3/4.  Record Levels  The 10-year yield today reached as low as a record 1.5309
percent. Five-year note yields dropped as low as 0.63 percent
and seven-year note yields tumbled to 0.98 percent. The euro
fell to an 11-year low versus the yen, while 10-year yields on
German, French, Canadian and Dutch bonds declined to records
lows.  “It’s hard for us to want to buy  government bonds  at these
levels,” said Joseph Balestrino, a fixed-income strategist for
Federated Investors Inc., a Pittsburgh-based money manager that
oversees $369.7 billion in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Track” with  Erik Schatzker . “How low it
can go is really hard to say because we’ve never been here
before. What’s going on is ultimate fear again. This is not
rational.”  Thirty-year bonds yields declined seven basis points to
2.64 percent. The record low was 2.509 on Dec. 18, 2008,
according to  Federal Reserve figures  beginning in 1953.  U.S. debt  has returned 1.6 percent this month, according to
indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of  shares  slid 8.7 percent in the same
period. The euro has declined 6.7 percent versus the dollar this
month, the most since September.  Goldman Forecast  Goldman Sachs lowered its forecast for the 10-year Treasury
yield to 2 percent for the end of 2012 from its previous call of
2.5 percent, according to strategists led by Francesco Garzarelli in a research report published today. The primary
dealer projected the yield will end 2013 at 2.5 percent, down
from a previously estimated 3.25 percent.  “I guess we could go to 1 percent potentially,” said Mark MacQueen, partner and  money manager  in Austin,  Texas , at Sage
Advisory Services Ltd., which oversees $10 billion. “But I’m
still in the camp that they’re going to muddle through and pour
money into the problem over there as opposed to letting another
2008 event occur.”  U.S. 10-year yields are down from 5.3 percent in June
2007, before the financial crisis intensified, and below the
average of 4.96 percent during the past 20 years. Treasuries
have returned 2.6 percent since the end of March, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, after returning 9.8
percent last year, including reinvested interest, the most since
2008.  Safe Play  “If you look at the global marketplace, we are the
supermarket of safety,” said  William Larkin , a fixed-income
money manager who helps oversee $500 million at Cabot Money
Management Inc. in Salem,  Massachusetts . “We’re talking about
an elevated level of fear. This is mainly driven by growing
uncertainty in  Europe . People are saying ’I can buy the Treasury
and I know my money will be returned to me.’”  Trading  volume  yesterday rose to the highest since April
10. It reached $324 billion yesterday, up from $196 billion the
previous day, through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer
broker. The figure is above the 2012 average of $242 billion.
Volume reached $439 billion on March 14, the highest since
August.  Technical Measure  U.S. debt pared a second  monthly advance  earlier as a
technical indicator signaled their recent decline was poised to
end.  The 14-day relative-strength  index  for 10-year Treasury
yields fell to 28.5 yesterday. A reading less than 30 suggests
to some traders that rates have declined too quickly and are set
to change direction.  Valuation measures show Treasuries are at the most
expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed, touched negative 0.91 percent, the most
expensive level ever. A negative reading indicates investors are
willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  The  U.S. economy  grew more slowly in the first quarter than
previously estimated, reflecting smaller gains in inventories
and bigger government cutbacks.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.9 percent annual rate
from January through March, down from a 2.2 percent prior
estimate, revised Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The report also showed corporate profits rose at the
slowest pace in more than three years and smaller wage gains at
the end of 2011.  Jobs Data  The number of Americans applying for unemployment insurance
payments rose last week to a one-month high, a sign that
progress in reducing joblessness may be stalling. First-time
claims for jobless benefits increased by 10,000 to 383,000 in
the week ended May 26 from a revised 373,000 the prior week, the
Labor Department said today. The initial claims exceeded the
median estimate of 370,000 in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  “There’s a nervousness about job growth in the spring, so
people are placing bets in front of Friday’s payroll number that
in general it may not be good,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief
global strategist at the broker-dealer BTIG LLC in  New York .
“If Europe continues to worsen, there’s no reason to think we
can’t get to 1.5 percent.”  Economists estimate a Labor Department report tomorrow will
show the U.S. added 150,000 jobs in May, up from 115,000 the
previous month. The jobless rate held at 8.1 percent, a separate
survey showed.  Price Levels  A  measure  of price-increase predictions used by the Fed to
set policy, the five-year, five-year forward break-even rate,
which gauges the average inflation rate between 2017 and 2022,
was 2.53 percent on May 25, down from a 2012 high of 2.78
percent on March 19. The rate slid nine basis points in April,
the biggest monthly decline since December.  The Fed bought $1.8 billion of Treasuries due from February
2036 to August 2041 as part of the plan to replace $400 billion
of shorter-term debt in its holdings with longer maturities,
according to the Fed Bank of New York’s  website . The Fed
previously expanded its balance sheet by $2.3 trillion in two
rounds of bond purchases.  The central bank also  announced plans  for operations during
June to buy about $45 billion of longer-term debt and sell about
$43 billion of shorter maturities. The final purchase is
scheduled for June 29.  Fed policy makers are scheduled to meet in Washington on
June 19-20 to consider what to do when the maturity-extension
program expires in June.  Spain’s Debt  The Wall Street Journal reported on its website that the
European department of the IMF has started discussing
contingency plans for a rescue loan to  Spain  in the event that
the country can’t find enough money to bail out the Bankia
group.  The IMF is not preparing financial aid for Spain, nor has
the country asked for a loan, a spokesman for the fund said.  “There’s been no request for financial assistance from
Spain and the IMF is not making plans for financial assistance
to Spain,” Gerry Rice, the IMF’s director of external
relations, told reporters in Washington today.  A Greek opinion poll before June 17 elections showed  New
Democracy , the largest pro-bailout party, leading Syriza, which
calls for the cancellation of the country’s bailout terms.  Italy’s prime minister and central bank chief pressed
 Germany  to back more aggressive efforts to snuff out the
escalating debt crisis, setting up a south-north showdown over
how to stabilize the 17-nation euro economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  