-- Treasury Yields Fall to Record Low in 2nd Monthly Rally
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-31T06:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/treasury-yields-fall-to-record-low-in-2nd-monthly-rally.html
Treasury yields touched record lows,
while prices headed for a second monthly gain, as Europe’s
fiscal crisis and signs of slowing economic growth fueled demand
for the relative safety of  U.S. debt .  Government securities  returned 3.2 percent since the end of
March through yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
show. The MSCI All-Country World Index of  shares  declined almost
10 percent. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of commodities
tumbled 12 percent. Investors are willing to overlook the low
yields on Treasuries in exchange for the security they offer,
said George Goncalves, the head of rates research in New York at
Nomura Securities International Inc.  “Yields are telling us the world is headed for a recession
and the euro may break up,” said Tsutomu Komiya, who helps
oversee the equivalent of $111 billion as an investor in  Tokyo 
at Daiwa Asset Management Co., a unit of  Japan ’s second-biggest
brokerage. “It’s going to be a long battle to stabilize the
world economy.”  U.S. 10-year  yields , the benchmark for borrowing costs
worldwide, were 1.62 percent as of 7:03 a.m. in London,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The 1.75 percent
security due in May 2022 changed hands at 101 5/32.  The rate was as low as 1.5933 percent earlier, the least
ever. Ten-year notes  yielded  as little as 1.33 percentage points
more than two-year securities, the narrowest spread since the
end of 2008.  Ten-year rates dropped to 2.86 percent in Australia today
and to 1.26 percent in Germany yesterday, both all-time lows.  Japan’s yield declined 1 1/2 basis points to 0.82 percent.
It slid as far as 0.81 percent, a level not seen since 2003. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Relative-Strength Index  “I need a place to put my cash,” Goncalves said yesterday
on the “Surveillance Midday” Bloomberg television program with
 Tom Keene . “You’re not sensitive to the interest coupon that
you’re going to receive.”  The rally is “probably getting close to an end,” he said.
Nomura is one of the 21 primary dealers that trade directly with
the  Federal Reserve .  The 14-day relative-strength  index  for 10-year yields was
29. A reading less than 30 suggests to some traders that rates
have declined too quickly and are set to change direction.  Investors scooped up Treasuries on concern Greece’s efforts
to battle a recession will lead it to abandon the euro. Ten-year
yields climbed to 5.93 percent in  Italy  and to 6.66 percent in
 Spain  yesterday as investors questioned whether the countries
will be able to pay their debts.  Jobs Growth  In the U.S., economists estimate the nation added 150,000
jobs in May, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey before the Labor Department reports the figure
tomorrow. The gain was 115,000 in April.  The jobless rate probably held at 8.1 percent, a separate
survey showed, staying above 8 percent since February 2009. The
Commerce Department will trim its estimate of first-quarter
growth to 1.9 percent from 2.2 percent today, according to
another poll.  Brazil cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low of
8.5 percent as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens Latin America’s
biggest economy.  Fed policy makers are scheduled to meet in Washington on
June 19-20 to consider what to do when their $400 billion
maturity extension program, known as Operation Twist, expires in
June.  The central bank plans to buy as much as $2 billion of
Treasuries due from February 2036 to May 2042 today as part of
the plan, according to the Fed Bank of New York’s  website . The
Fed bank previously expanded its balance sheet by $2.3 trillion
in two rounds of bond purchases.  Fed Comments  Fed Bank of Boston President Eric Rosengren yesterday
called for new monetary stimulus, saying the  U.S. economy  is too
weak to generate more jobs growth. He joins Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  in calling for extra easing.  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said yesterday
additional stimulus probably won’t be needed unless the economy
falters. Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said
yesterday he doesn’t know what the U.S. would gain from further
easing. Rosengren, Evans and Fisher don’t vote on monetary
policy this year.  Rosengren said more easing is warranted by his
“expectations of only modest growth, no improvement in the
 unemployment rate , an inflation forecast below 2 percent and
significant downside risks to the forecast.”  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, narrowed 20 basis points in May to 2.06 percentage points.
It was the biggest monthly decline since September.  The average over the past decade is 2.15 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  