-- Regular Exercise May Raise Risk for 1 of 10, Study Finds
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/regular-exercise-may-raise-risk-for-1-of-10-study-finds.html
Regular exercise may increase the
risk of  heart disease  and diabetes in some people, potentially
uncovering a group of individuals genetically predisposed to
suffer from working out, researchers said.  While most benefit from physical activity, 8 percent to 13
percent of individuals had a worse level of  blood pressure ,
cholesterol, triglycerides or insulin after exercise, according
to the  study  published by the journal PloS. All of the body
indicators measured are risk factors for heart disease and
diabetes.  “The causes of the phenomenon are unknown,” the study
authors wrote.  The  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services  recommends 
adults log 150 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise a week for
“substantial health benefits,” according to its 2008
guidelines.  “Being physically active is one of the most important
steps that Americans of all ages can take to improve their
health,” the department said on its website.  The analysis released yesterday looked at six earlier
studies involving more than 1,600 mostly obese adults, testing
how a variety of people reacted to exercise programs. About 7
percent had adverse changes in two or more of the risk factors
examined.  Prior health status, age, sex or race didn’t appear to
influence who ended up in this group, the authors said. One of
the reports included in the research found a genetic component
was related to how some individuals responded to physical
activity, a potential clue for discovering what makes these
people different.  “It may be possible with further research to identify
molecular predictors of the inability to benefit from regular
exercise,” the researchers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  