-- Repsol Shareholders Criticize Brufau’s Handling of YPF Loss
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-05-31T16:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/repsol-shareholders-criticize-brufau-s-handling-of-ypf-seizure.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP)  investors criticized
Chairman  Antonio Brufau  over his handling of the company’s
Argentine unit, whose expropriation wiped 14 billion euros ($17
billion) from the market value of  Spain ’s biggest oil producer.  Felipe Izquierdo, a shareholder, said Brufau was distracted
from the situation in Argentina by a power struggle with
Repsol’s biggest shareholder and missed a chance to repair
relations with the government. Others endorsed Brufau’s
management.  “You haven’t been sufficiently diligent as you were
involved in another conflict,” Izquierdo said during an annual
meeting of shareholders in  Madrid  today. “You weren’t able to
act quickly enough.”  The seizure of  YPF SA (YPFD)  came six months after Repsol fired
Deputy Chairman Luis del Rivero, who had lobbied to increase
dividends as the construction firm he headed, Sacyr Vallehermoso
SA, struggled to meet loan repayments. Argentine President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  nationalized YPF on April 16,
accusing Repsol of draining excessive dividends from the unit
instead of investing in oil production, a charge Repsol denies.  Elena Spinosa said Brufau made a mistake by selling a stake
in the unit to the Eskenazi family. Spinosa spoke on behalf of
Salvador Font, a former Sacyr executive hired by Del Rivero who
represented Repsol on the board of YPF.  Repsol fell 0.9 percent to a three-year low of 12.08 euros
in Madrid today. The stock has lost 50 percent of its value in
the year to date.  “The hypothetical clashes over the control for Repsol
haven’t distracted for one minute from creating a better
Repsol,” Brufau told the meeting. “I tried to do the best I
could and so did the rest of the management team.”  Essential Element  Brufau reminded shareholders that the Argentine government
described Repsol as an essential element of the country’s
industry in November, just five months before its managers were
expelled from YPF’s headquarters.  Repsol, which still holds 6 percent of YPF after  Argentina 
seized a 51 percent stake, is set to acquire a further 6 percent
of the company after its former partner, the Petersen Group,
defaulted on loans from the  oil company  it had used to buy its
stake, Brufau said.  “Our company, fortunately, plays in a different league
from YPF,” Francisco Flores told the meeting. “What we’ve lost
in size, we’ve gained in security and, in the long term,
profitability.”  Repsol this week said it would reduce dividends paid out of
2012 earnings by as much as 40 percent to bolster its balance
sheet following the loss of YPF, which accounted for almost half
its oil reserves.  The company’s dividend payout ratio of 64 percent was the
highest among 23 members of the Bloomberg Industries Integrated
Oil Producers Index in the past year.  Eni SpA (ENI)  ranked second with
53 percent while Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s biggest oil
producer, paid out 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  