-- Republican Leaders Offer Options for Student Loan Subsidy
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-05-31T20:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/republican-leaders-offer-options-for-student-loan-subsidy.html
Republican congressional leaders,
seeking to end a partisan impasse over how to pay for freezing
student-loan  interest rates  for a year, are offering alternative
financing plans.  Unless Congress acts by July 1, the interest rate for
college students’ Stafford loans will double from 3.4 percent to
6.8 percent. Republicans and Democrats disagree on how to fund
the $6 billion cost.  A House-passed bill would take the money from a preventive-
care fund created by the 2010 federal health-care overhaul.
Senate Republicans blocked consideration of Democratic
legislation to force owners of some small businesses to pay
withholding taxes to finance the subsidy.  In a letter to President  Barack Obama , Republican leaders
proposed various methods to pay for the freeze, including higher
pension contributions by federal workers and a plan to prevent
overpaying Social Security benefits to retired state and
municipal workers who get pensions.  “Our alternative is reasonable and responsible, but in the
interest of finding common ground on a way to pay for a one-year
extension of the current student loan interest rate, we are open
to other solutions that we have all supported in the past,”
House Speaker  John Boehner , Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  and other Republican leaders said in their letter to
Obama.  Closed Meeting  Republican leaders released the letter after Politico.com
reported that Boehner told a closed meeting of  House Republicans 
it is unlikely that Congress will resolve the impasse before
interest rate increase on July 1.  Democrats seized on the report, accusing Republicans of
indifference to the plight of financially strapped students.
 Charles Schumer  of New York, the third-ranking Senate Democrat,
said in a statement that the report confirms “our suspicions
that Republicans were never serious about wanting to stop rates
from doubling on college students.”  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner, said the speaker
told Republican colleagues that House leaders “are waiting for
Senate Democrats” to act on the House-passed measure. The
speaker also told fellow Republicans that “if the interest rate
lapses because of the Democrats’ inaction, we can fix it
retroactively,” Steel said.  The leaders’  letter  to Obama, dated today, was written
before the House Republican conference, Steel said.  Under the program, students borrow each year at the
prevailing interest rate set by law. Students who attend a four-
year college don’t have to start paying interest on the loans
until two years after graduation.  One option proposed by Republican leaders, taken from
Obama’s 2013 budget plan, would require students who drop out to
begin paying interest immediately.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  