-- Republicans Attempt to Repeal Taxes for U.S. Health Law
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-05-31T17:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/republicans-attempt-to-repeal-taxes-for-u-s-health-law.html
Efforts to repeal taxes imposed by
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law advanced in Congress as
Republicans sought to save medical-device makers  $29 billion  in
levies and consumers $4 billion in out-of-pocket drug costs.  The U.S. House Ways and Means Committee voted 23-11 to
eliminate a 2.3 percent tax on hip implants, pacemakers and
other devices sold to hospitals; and voted 24-9 to end a ban on
the use of pretax flexible spending accounts to buy
nonprescription medicines such as  Johnson & Johnson’s (JNJ)  Tylenol.  Obama’s almost $1 trillion, 10-year plan to overhaul the
health-care system passed Congress in 2010 without a single
Republican vote. The law, known as the Affordable Care Act, is
being challenged before the  Supreme Court . It is expected to
expand insurance to more than 30 million Americans after its
main provisions take effect in 2014, funded partly by taxes,
product discounts and other costs agreed to by drug companies,
hospitals and insurers in exchange for increased business.  “The GOP continues to strongly oppose the ACA and is
always searching for ways to prevent the implementation of any
tax or fee that would help pay for this law,” said Steven
Irizarry, a partner at the Washington-based lobbying firm
Roberti White LLC. “It doesn’t hurt that it’s an election year,
and that the ACA continues to remain as unpopular as ever.”  The Joint Committee on Taxation has said that repealing the
two provisions of the health law would cost the government
almost $34 billion through 2022 in lost revenue. The Republican-
led Ways and Means Committee sent the bills to the House for a
vote next week. The repeals must pass the Senate, controlled by
Obama’s fellow Democrats, and gain the president’s signature to
become law.  Cost Burdens  Device makers say they can’t afford the industry tax, which
is set to take effect next year. The  Advanced Medical Technology
Association , a Washington-based lobby group representing
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ,  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  and other device makers,
says the levy will push companies to other countries and hurt
innovation.  “This tax will harm the device and diagnostics industry’s
ability to invest in hiring and medical progress,” Wanda
Moebius, a spokeswoman for AdvaMed, said in an e-mail. “We are
pleased repealing it has generated strong momentum.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, echoed the
arguments today, telling reporters that unless repealed, the tax
“will drive up the cost of health care in America and drive
many of these companies overseas.”  The tax applies to all devices sold in the U.S., even those
made in other countries, said Representative  Sander Levin  of
 Michigan , the top Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee.  Bottom Line  “In full public view this issue was vetted,”
Representative Richard Neal, a Democrat from  Massachusetts ,
said. “It was transparent and the industry by and large bought
in as long as the tax was applied to foreign competition, that
was the bottom line.”  Two Democrats voted to repeal the tax, Representatives Ron Kind of Wisconsin and Shelley Berkley of Nevada. Other Democrats
were sympathetic to the device industry while stopping short of
supporting the repeal because Republicans hadn’t proposed how to
pay for eliminating the tax.  “Without the pay-for it makes it difficult to proceed,”
Representative  Xavier Becerra , a Democrat from California, said.  A Senate bill, S. 17, the Medical Device Access and
Innovation Protection Act, to repeal the tax has 26 sponsors,
all Republicans. Minnesota Democrats  Amy Klobuchar  and  Al Franken , who haven’t signed on to the bill, have said they
support relieving the burden on device makers in some way.
Medtronic, the world’s biggest maker of heart-rhythm devices, is
based in  Minneapolis .  St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) , No. 2 in the market
for those devices, is based in  St. Paul , Minnesota.  Drug Accounts  The House bill is H.R. 436, the Protect Medical Innovation
Act of 2011. The bill to reverse the over-the-counter
prohibition is H.R. 5842, the Restoring Access to Medication
Act.  The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated allowing over-
the-counter medicines to be included as flexible spending
account expenses would cost the federal government $4 billion in
anticipated revenue from 2013 through 2022.  Every dollar spent on nonprescription medicines saves the
U.S. health-care system as much as $7, a total of $102 billion
each year, according to a Booz & Co. study released in January
by the Consumer Healthcare Products Association. The association
serves as the Washington lobby group for over-the-counter drug
companies, such as Allegan, Michigan-based  Perrigo Co. (PRGO)   A third bill today, the Medical FSA Improvement Act, or
H.R. 1004, lets employees cash out unused flexible spending
dollars, as much as $500, and have it taxed as wages. Under
current law, employees must forfeit money they don’t use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  