-- Republicans Hit Dental Bill That Private Equity Hates
-- B y   S y d n e y   P .   F r e e d b e r g   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/republicans-target-dental-bill-that-private-equity-hates.html
The likes of  Jeb Bush , William Frist,
Tommy Thompson and  Haley Barbour  aren’t typically heard from in
the office of Thom Tillis, the Speaker of the North Carolina
House of Representatives.  Yet the four Republican Party stalwarts, none of them a
Carolina resident, have contacted Tillis’s office over a little-
known bill to toughen state regulation of dental companies.
They’ve been joined by  Grover Norquist , the Tea Party favorite
and anti-tax crusader who heads the Washington, D.C.-based
Americans for Tax Reform.  “It’s not terribly common to have these types of names”
intervening on a state bill, said Jordan Shaw, a spokesman for
Tillis.  Their interest marks the Tar Heel State as the front line
in a national struggle over dental management companies. Fueled
by Wall Street money, at least six such firms are under scrutiny
by two U.S. senators and authorities in five states over
allegations that they soak taxpayers through excessive Medicaid
billings, abuse patients via needless treatments and run afoul
of laws that say only licensed dentists can practice dentistry.  The  North Carolina  bill would place new strictures on such
companies, which have become a favored investment of the private
equity industry. Private equity firms have bought or put money
into at least 25 dental-management companies in the last decade.  Republicans control the North Carolina state Senate, which
approved the bill on a 46-2 vote, as well as the state House,
where it has stalled.  Private Equity Backers  A dozen companies, at least half of them backed by private
equity groups, raised more than $1.1 million to try to stop the
bill, which is supported by the North Carolina Dental Society
and the state Board of Dental Examiners. The private equity
backers include Leonard Green & Partners of  Los Angeles , Court
Square Capital Partners of  New York  and Levine Leichtman Capital
Partners of Beverly Hills,  California .  “They’re looking at North Carolina as their test case,”
said Lisa Ward, director of government affairs for the North
Carolina Dental Society, which has reported hiring five
lobbyists and spending about $400,000 to support the bill.
“They’ll do anything they can to win here.”  Bush, who served as  Florida ’s governor from 1999 to 2007,
sent an e-mail to Tillis “asking him to review the bill,” said
Jaryn Emhof, a spokeswoman for Bush. The former governor hasn’t
taken a position on the legislation, Emhof said. He contacted
Tillis at the request of Florida Representative Michael Bileca,
she said.  State Representative  Bileca, a Republican from West Miami, Florida, is listed as
the president of Towncare Dental Partnerships Inc., which has 28
offices in Florida, according to the company’s  website . He is
also a founding board member and treasurer of the Dental Group
Practice Association, a dental-management trade group, according
to his legislative  website . Bileca didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Some of the national Republicans who contacted Tillis’s
office about the bill have their own ties to  private equity .  Thompson, a former Wisconsin governor who’s now a
Republican candidate for a U.S. senate seat there, is listed as
an operating partner with MTS Health Investors, a New York-based
private equity firm specializing in health care, according to
the company’s  website .  After serving as secretary of the  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services from 2001 to 2005, Thompson received at least
$1.1 million from Washington-based law  firm  Akin Gump Strauss
Hauer & Feld, according to a 2007 financial disclosure form he
filed. The law firm lobbies for private equity interests and the
industry’s leading trade group.  Consulting Fee  Thompson also reported receiving a $50,000 consulting fee
from  TA Associates , a Boston-based private equity firm. It had
an investment in the 1990s in Monarch Dental Corp., a management
company. Marcia O’Carroll, a spokeswoman for TA Associates,
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Thompson declined to comment through a spokesman. He has
said previously that his work for Akin Gump’s health-care
practice never involved lobbying. Shaw, Tillis’s spokesman, said
that while Thompson tried to get in touch with Tillis, the two
men haven’t connected.  Nor did the speaker connect with Barbour, a former
Mississippi governor and chairman of the  Republican National
Committee  from 1993-97, according to Shaw. Barbour is a founding
partner of BGR Group, which bills itself as “the premier
bipartisan government relations, strategic communications and
investment banking firm” headquartered in Washington and London.  Access to Funds  One subsidiary of the firm, called BGR Capital & Trade LLC,
provides services that include “reliable access to private
equity and sovereign wealth funds seeking new investment
opportunities,” according to its  website .  Frist, a heart surgeon and former Republican senator from
 Tennessee  who served as Senate Majority Leader, is a partner in
Cressey & Co., a private equity firm that specializes in health
care investments. Cressey had in its portfolio Midwest Dental
Inc. until April 2011, when it sold its majority stake in the
management company to Friedman Fleischer & Lowe, a San Francisco
buyout concern.  In an e-mail dated May 16, Frist told Tillis he was
especially interested in the bill’s “potential to alter some
innovative practice patterns.”  “I have a number of dentists here in Nashville as well as
practices that have expressed some concerns around the bill,”
Frist wrote.  Taking No Position  Frist said in an interview that although he was expressing
concern to Tillis, he wasn’t taking a position on the bill, nor
was he lobbying. He said he wrote to the North Carolina House
Speaker after hearing from potential investors and dentists who
were concerned that the bill might “drive out efficient,
effective professional management of health care services in
North Carolina.”  He said he has no financial stake in any business in North
Carolina, nor in any dental management group. He said he has no
plans to invest there.  “I’m involved simply as a policy maker and someone in the
private investment world,” he said.  Tillis wrote back to Frist two days later that while he was
trying to work with both sides, “I must say that my leaning is
towards the free-market argument against increased
regulation/control.”  The North Carolina bill would mandate a regulatory review
of agreements between dental management companies and dentists
to make sure corporations aren’t driving clinical decision-
making. Laws in North Carolina and at least 40 other states bar
corporate dentistry because of concerns that the profit motive
raises the risk of unnecessary or shoddy care.  ‘Crossed the Line’  Dentists contract with the management firms for marketing,
scheduling, staff recruitment and other services. Some dental
management corporations “have crossed the line from providing
business support services to exerting control over the dental
practice,” the Dental Society said on its  website  about the
bill.  Last year, the dental board found that Gary Cameron, an
Asheboro dentist, violated state law by selling his practice to
Heartland Dental Care Inc., an Effingham, Illinois-based company
with more than 300 affiliated dental practices in 18 states.
Only licensed dentists may own, manage, supervise, control or
conduct dental practices, under North Carolina statutes.  The board said Cameron and Heartland used a complex series
of contracts, leases and employment agreements to effect the
sale -- and that Cameron agreed not to compete with the
practice. Heartland is about 30 percent owned by CHS Capital, a
Chicago private equity firm.  Cameron and Heartland agreed to cancel the agreements. They
denied any wrongdoing.  Six States  The fight in North Carolina comes as at least five states
are conducting audits or reviews of how dental-management
companies do business. Texas officials cut off Medicaid payments
to one  firm , All Smiles Dental Center Inc., because of allegedly
“excessive” and “inappropriate” orthodontic care, according to
an All Smiles executive’s affidavit that was filed when the
company sought  bankruptcy protection  earlier this month. All
Smiles is owned by Chicago-based Valor Equity Partners.  Texas inspectors have taken exception to 63 of 86 All
Smiles orthodontic cases reviewed from 2007 to 2011, according
to Michael Lozich, its chief compliance officer. “We’re going
to defend ourselves and contest against these claims,” he said.  All Smiles’ collapse followed another bankruptcy filing in
February by Nashville-based Church Street Health Management LLC,
a dental-management company that cited the costs of defending
itself against lawsuits and investigations. The company, which
is affiliated with Small Smiles clinics, is owned by Arcapita
Inc. and other private equity firms. Washington-based  Carlyle
Group (CG)  owned part of Church Street before it exited the deal
within the past year, spokesman  Chris Ullman  said.  ‘Assembly Line Service’  Church Street may have been abusing patients, “grossly
overcharging the United States government in Medicaid
reimbursement claims” and focusing “more on achieving self-
imposed quotas via assembly line service than proper patient
care,” according to a letter two U.S. senators wrote the company
in November.  Senators  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, and  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, are examining whether some dental
management companies -- also called dental service
organizations, or DSOs -- are breaking laws by directing care,
according to people familiar with their inquiry.  No Care Decisions  Church Street “respects the Senate’s important oversight
role” and has provided information about improvements in the
quality of care over the past five years, according to Don
Meyer, the company’s spokesman. Church Street doesn’t make care
decisions or own dental practices, he said.  In North Carolina, records show that American Dental
Partners of Wakefield,  Massachusetts , hired its own lobbyists.
In Michigan and California, American Dental was sued last year
by dentists who claim the company interfered with their delivery
of care to patients.  R. Bruce Thompson II, one of three registered lobbyists for
American Dental, declined to comment. The company, which manages
more than 280 dental centers in 21 states, says it intends to
defend itself vigorously in the lawsuits. JLL Partners, a New
York-based private equity firm, completed a buyout of American
Dental for about $390 million in February.  Meanwhile, the Federal Trade Commission has sided with the
management companies in a 13-page letter that says the North
Carolina bill would probably reduce competition for consumers.  No Enhancement  The letter, dated May 25, says, “given that DSOs focus
solely on non-clinical aspects of dental practice, it does not
appear that the Bill would enhance the Board’s ability to ensure
patient safety,” the FTC staff wrote. The letter asks state
lawmakers to consider whether the bill risks “merely protecting
those dentists who do not choose to use DSOs against competition
from those who do.”  Norquist made a similar argument in a May 21  letter  asking
North Carolina lawmakers to reject the dental bill, calling it
an “attempt to use the power of government to eliminate
competition.” He called it a “hidden tax” and said North
Carolina consumers pay $250 million more each year for dental
treatments because the state faces a shortage of dentists.  Norquist’s Americans for  Tax Reform  is a tax-exempt
nonprofit group that isn’t required to disclose its donors, and
doesn’t. John Kartch, the group’s communications director,
didn’t respond to an e-mail asking whether private-equity firms
are among the contributors.  In Raleigh, meanwhile, representatives of the dental
society and the management companies met this week with
lawmakers, trying to find a compromise and rework sections of
the bill that the companies consider overreaching.  “We’re trying to see if we can peacefully co-exist,” said
M. Alec Parker, the dental society’s executive director.  Editors: John Voskuhl, Gary Putka.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sydney P. Freedberg in Miami at 
 sfreedberg@bloomberg.net  or
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  