-- ResCap Unsecured Creditors May Fight Quick Sale, Lawyer Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-05-31T22:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/rescap-unsecured-creditors-may-fight-quick-sale-lawyer-says-1-.html
Residential Capital LLC’s unsecured
creditors may oppose plans by the bankrupt mortgage company to
quickly sell most of its assets to  Fortress Investment Group
LLC (FIG) , a lawyer for the creditors said in court.  The official committee of unsecured creditors will decide
in the coming weeks whether it will oppose ResCap’s request for
a fast sale of $4 billion of assets, attorney Kenneth H. Eckstein said in bankruptcy court in Manhattan today.  The company is pushing to sell assets to Fortress and
ResCap’s parent,  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , within 90 days, Eckstein
said. ResCap is scheduled to seek approval of those sales from
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn next month.  “Those are fast transactions,” Eckstein told Glenn.
“Right now, we should assume that June 18 could well be a
contested hearing.”  ResCap filed for bankruptcy May 14 with plans to sell most
of its assets to Fortress. Ally, a Detroit-based bank that
specializes in  car loans , supported the bankruptcy filing as a
way to resolve legal claims related to mortgage-backed
securities sold by ResCap. Ally is 74 percent-owned by the  U.S.
Treasury  after receiving a bailout.  The committee should know whether it will support or oppose
the sale proposal after it meets with ResCap managers next week,
Eckstein, a lawyer with the Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP,
said.  Unsecured Creditors  Unsecured creditors aren’t likely to get any money from the
two sales, he said. Under the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , lenders
whose loans are guaranteed by collateral must be paid in full
before lower-ranking, unsecured creditors can collect anything.  The committee is planning to investigate any financial
transactions ResCap was involved in before filing bankruptcy,
Eckstein said. Such investigations are routine in  bankruptcy
court  and sometimes lead to lawsuits that collect money for
lower-ranking creditors.  Proposals to give non-bankrupt affiliates of ResCap
immunity to certain lawsuits “jumped out at me as potentially
significant issues,” Glenn said in court. Such so-called third-
party releases must be approved by a bankruptcy judge.  ResCap has proposed dropping potential lawsuits against
Ally as part of the sale of  mortgage loans  and other financial
assets to its parent company. Ally agreed to pay $750 million to
ResCap to settle any claims against the parent, purchase as much
as $1.6 billion of securities if others don’t, and provide $150
million to help finance ResCap’s operations during bankruptcy,
according to a company statement.  Thirty-two of the company’s 33 biggest unsecured claims
were related to active or potential mortgage-securities
litigation, according to court papers. ResCap didn’t give a
value for the claims and said it disputes all of them.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  