-- Robuchon, Four Seasons to Close New York Atelier June 30
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-05-31T00:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/robuchon-four-seasons-to-close-new-york-atelier-june-30.html
Joel Robuchon , the most Michelin-
starred chef in the world, will close his only  New York 
restaurant at the end of June.  “Four Seasons Hotel New York and L’Atelier de Joel
Robuchon have come to an agreement not to renew their current
operating arrangement,” according to an announcement sent out
by the hotel.  The announcement called the decision mutual, to “allow
both parties to focus on new ventures.”  The news was first reported by the New York Times.  Robuchon recently consulted on the menu at Kibo, a
Japanese-themed restaurant on  Manhattan ’s East 18th Street, that
announced its closing earlier this week.  L’Atelier, which opened in 2006, currently offers an eight-
course tasting menu for $190.  Alan Richman, in a review for Bloomberg News shortly after
the opening, wrote that he preferred the New York L’Atelier to
locations in  Las Vegas  and Paris.  “Something else is different about this L’Atelier. Other
than the mostly baffling desserts, the food is startlingly good
... More than a half-dozen items were Robuchon at his best,
which means precisely assembled, absolutely coherent,
unabashedly delicious,” Richman wrote.  A la carte selections range from $17 for a crispy
langoustine papillote with basil pesto, to $91 for caviar over a
poached egg.  “Nothing has been planned as of yet” for the soon-to-be
vacated space, said Tiffani Cailor, a spokeswoman for the Four
Seasons, in a phone interview. She said that Franck Savoy, the
hotel’s director of food and beverage, and son of the French
chef  Guy Savoy , won’t be involved with the replacement.  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on music and
 Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 