-- Romanian Social-Liberals Keep Lead in Opinion Polls, IMAS Shows
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-05-31T06:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/romanian-social-liberals-keep-lead-in-opinion-polls-imas-shows.html
Romania ’s Social Democrats and the
 Liberals , who back Prime Minister Victor Ponta, kept their lead
in opinion polls before local and general elections this year, a
new survey found.  The two parties, who now form the Social-Liberal Union and
will run together in elections, would win 59.4 percent,
according to the May 9-15 survey of 1,038 people,  Adevarul 
newspaper reported.  It had a margin of error of 3 percentage
points.  Support for the current governing parties decreased from 61
percent in a May 2 poll done by pollster IRES and is higher than
the 48.4 percent result the two parties had in an IMAS poll done
in March, before Ponta took office. The former ruling  Liberal
Democratic Party  would get 14.5 percent of the votes, down from
15 percent in May 2, the survey showed.  The new  People’s Party , founded by media owner Dan
Diaconescu, would garner 12.8 percent of the votes, compared
with 10 percent in the previous poll. The opposition Democratic
Union of Hungarians in Romania, an ethnic minority party, would
get 5.5 percent, up from 4 percent.  Ponta, a former prosecutor, gained Parliament’s support for
his new government on May 7 after his Social democrats and the
Liberals ousted former Prime Minister Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu in
a no-confidence vote held less than three months after he came
to power. The new Cabinet pledged to continue Romania’s
precautionary accord with the  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Union and partly restored public-sector wages after
a 25 percent cut in June 2010.  Romania plans to hold local elections on June 10, with
general elections probably following in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  