-- Romney Calls Solyndra a Symbol of Failure for Obama
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-05-31T20:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/romney-calls-solyndra-a-symbol-of-failure-for-obama.html
Mitt Romney  visited the closed
facilities of Solyndra LLC, the solar-panel manufacturer that
went bankrupt after receiving a $535 million federal loan
guarantee, and called the company a symbol of failure for
President  Barack Obama ’s administration.  The presumptive Republican presidential nominee spoke today
outside the factory Solyndra constructed with government funds
at its headquarters in Fremont,  California , terming it “the  Taj
Mahal  of corporate headquarters.” The campaign didn’t disclose
the speech location until Romney arrived.  “This building, this half-a-billion dollar taxpayer
investment, represents a serious conflict of interest on the
part of the president and his team,” Romney said.  The former Massachusetts governor has repeatedly criticized
the Obama administration’s decision to extend the $535 million
loan guarantee to Solyndra, saying it was part of a pattern of
rewarding companies and people that supported the president with
taxpayer dollars. The family foundation of Obama fundraiser
 George Kaiser  was the company’s biggest investor.  “Free enterprise to the president means taking money from
the taxpayers and giving it freely to his friends,” Romney
said.  Corporate Success  Romney, 65, a co-founder of the Boston-based private-equity
firm Bain Capital LLC, sought to use Solyndra’s failure to
underscore his central argument that he understands how business
works while Obama doesn’t. He also has said the president is
hindering corporate success with regulations, including the
Dodd-Frank Act that sets new rules for the banking industry in
the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.  The reason “that the turnaround has taken so long to
occur, that the recovery has been so tepid, is that the
president fails to understand the basic nature of free
enterprise in America,” Romney said today. “He thinks that
government-dominated decisions like this make America stronger.
They make us weaker.”  Solyndra, heralded by Obama in May 2010 as proof that “the
promise of clean energy isn’t just an article of faith,” filed
for bankruptcy last September, days before the FBI raided its
headquarters. The company received its loan guarantee under an
Energy Department program in September 2009.  Its demise has sparked investigations by Congress, the FBI
and watchdogs at the Energy and Treasury departments.  Taxpayers ‘Stuck’  “If the business had done spectacularly well, the
shareholders -- his friends -- would have done very, very well,
but the taxpayers would have just gotten their money back,”
Romney said. “On the other hand, of course, if the business
failed -- as it did -- it’s the taxpayers that get stuck with
losing a half a billion dollars.”  Solyndra received funding through a program created under
President  George W. Bush ’s administration that “has supported
tens of thousands of jobs across the country,” Obama campaign
spokeswoman Lis Smith said today in a news release.  “In fact, both Republican and Democratic administrations
advanced Solyndra’s application, and the company was widely
praised as successful and innovative both before and after
receiving the Department of Energy loan guarantee,” Smith said.  Romney sealed the Republican presidential nomination on May
29 by winning the Texas primary, which gave him more than the
required 1,144 delegates.  Rice Endorsement  Since then, Romney’s focus has been on raising campaign
cash. He conducted a fundraiser last night in Hillsborough,
California, where he was endorsed by two former secretaries of
state:  Condoleezza Rice , who served under Bush, and  George Shultz , who held the post under President  Ronald Reagan .  Romney, who holds another fundraiser tonight in  Beverly
Hills , also attacked Obama over Solyndra at the Hillsborough
gathering.  After his speech today, Romney called for new leadership in
 Syria  as he responded to questions from reporters.  “It’s important for us to take whatever action we can as
the leader of the free world to help move Syria from being
dominated by a ruthless tyrant who’s killing thousands of his
own people,” Romney said. “It is important to see a change in
leadership in Syria.”  Romney said he met earlier today with more than a dozen
leaders of technology companies to discuss immigration concerns,
including visas for foreign-born technology workers, education
and taxes.  Solyndra is located near Silicon Valley, home to technology
giants including Menlo Park-based  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s
most popular social-networking company, and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the
Mountain View-based owner of the world’s most widely used
Internet search engine.  -- Editors: Don Frederick, Michael Shepard  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in Fremont, California at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  