-- Stallings Leads Memorial Golf, Woods 4 Back, Mickelson Withdraws
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-06-01T04:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/rory-mcilroy-makes-quadruple-bogey-7-to-start-memorial-golf.html
Scott Stallings shot a 6-under-par 66
to take a one-shot lead over fellow Americans Spencer Levin and
Erik Compton into today’s second round of the U.S. PGA Tour’s
Memorial Tournament.  Four-time tournament winner  Tiger Woods  is four shots back
after a 2-under 70, and Rory McIlroy recovered from a quadruple-
bogey 7 on his third hole for a 71.  Phil Mickelson  withdrew
after shooting a 7-over 79.  Woods, who hasn’t finished better than 40th in three
tournaments since winning the Arnold Palmer Invitational two
months ago, had four birdies and a double bogey at Muirfield
Village Golf Club in Dublin,  Ohio .  Woods, who won the Memorial from 1999 to 2001 and again in
2009, started on the second nine yesterday and had birdies at
the 15th and 17th holes before a double-bogey at the par-4 18th.
He added two more birdies at the fifth and seventh holes.  “I was just consistent all day,” Woods told reporters.
“I didn’t do anything great and I didn’t do anything poorly. It
certainly could have been a lot lower, but I’m pleased with the
way I hit the golf ball.”  The event is hosted by 18-time major tournament winner  Jack Nicklaus .  McIlroy, the world’s No. 2-ranked player, started on the
10th hole and hit his tee shot into a bunker on the 185-yard,
par-3 12th. After his next shot rolled through the green into a
pond for a penalty stroke, his 85-yard fourth shot from a drop
area landed in a front bunker. He then two-putted from 15 feet
after reaching the green.  McIlroy Fights Back  The 23-year-old U.S. Open champion had birdies on two of
the next three holes before a bogey at No. 17. He added another
birdie at the third hole, eagled the fifth and birdied his final
hole to get under par. McIlroy, from  Northern Ireland , is
playing this week after missing consecutive cuts at the European
PGA Tour’s BMW PGA Championship and the U.S. Tour’s Players
Championship.  “It wasn’t the start that I wanted to get off to, being
four over through three holes, especially after the last few
weeks,” McIlroy said in a news conference. “I was just like,
here we go again. But I hung in there well, and proud of myself
for the way I just fought back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  