-- Rupiah Has Worst Month Since November on Europe Woes; Bonds Drop
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-05-31T09:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/rupiah-has-worst-month-since-november-on-europe-woes-bonds-drop.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah had the worst
month since November after global funds sold the nation’s assets
on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening. Ten-year bonds
fell the most in May since January 2011.  Offshore investors reduced government  debt holdings  by 4.5
trillion rupiah ($476 million) this month through May 29 and
sold $707 million more local stocks than they bought until
yesterday,  finance ministry  and exchange data show.  Bank
Indonesia  will begin offering dollar term deposits, then sell
foreign currency to the  spot market  or use swap instruments, it
said in a statement today.  “The potential for the rupiah to weaken further is great
due to tight dollar liquidity and the European crisis,” said
Billie Fuliangsahar, director of treasury at PT Rabobank
International Indonesia in Jakarta. “I expect overseas
investors to return to local financial markets by the end of
June at the earliest.”  The rupiah weakened 2.7 percent this month to 9,437 per
dollar as of 4:24 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency earlier touched
9,643, the weakest level since October 2009, and was little
changed today.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, rose 12 percentage points in May
to 17.5 percent. That’s the biggest climb since October 2008.
The measure was unchanged today. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut
its rupiah forecast to 9,800 for three months from 9,150,
according to a note today.  Central Bank  “The central bank may need to step up its excess liquidity
absorption” to bolster the rupiah, economists at PT Mandiri
Sekuritas led by  Destry Damayanti  wrote in a report yesterday.
Bank Indonesia should raise its  overnight deposit rate , or
FASBI, “to give a stronger signal of aggressive monetary
tightening.”  The monetary authority is expected to begin raising
 interest rates  in its upcoming meetings starting with the FASBI
in June, which would help support the currency, analysts at
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. led by  Gundy Cahyadi  wrote in a
report today.  The government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022 dropped the
most since November, causing the yield to rise 57 basis points
this month, or 0.57 percentage point, to 6.52 percent, according
to closing prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association. The
yield declined one basis point today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  