-- Sanofi Aims to Be Pharma’s Top R&D Organization, Zerhouni Says
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-05-31T16:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/sanofi-aims-to-be-pharma-s-top-r-d-organization-zerhouni-says.html
Sanofi,  France ’s biggest drugmaker,
is advancing its overhaul of research and development, with the
goal of becoming the industry leader in bringing new medicines
to market, said Elias Zerhouni, the president of global R&D.  Sanofi wants to become the best R&D organization among
drugmakers by 2015, Zerhouni told reporters gathered at its new
headquarters in Paris today. Scientists at the company should
write top-quality scientific articles, and reach a higher rate
of success in drug development than other companies, in less
time and with fewer costs, he said.  Pharmaceutical makers worldwide are suffering from a dearth
of new medicines at a time when they also are losing patent
protection on their best-selling treatments.  Sanofi (SAN)  is forming
more partnerships with academia and outside companies and
increasing its capacity to translate scientific discoveries into
new drugs, Zerhouni said.  Increased R&D productivity “isn’t a question of too big or
too small; it’s a question of intelligence,” Zerhouni said.
“The textbook on how to fix R&D hasn’t been written yet.”  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, four
years ago reorganized its research operations into small teams
competing with each other for financing in one of the industry’s
boldest experiments.  Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher , a former
Glaxo executive, began downsizing the French company’s R&D
operations, and dropping Sanofi’s least-promising research
projects, after taking the helm of the company in December 2008.  Research Hubs  The company last year reorganized its R&D into four so-
called “research hubs” in France,  Germany ,  Asia  and the Boston
area to facilitate communication among teams and create an
environment more open to external collaborations.  Sanofi also has been eliminating hierarchy levels and
organizing scientists around specific projects, Zerhouni said.  “The project is what matters, not people’s titles,”
Zerhouni said. “The least hierarchical the model is, the
better.”  Researchers must be “integrated in the eco-system” and
shouldn’t remained holed up in their labs, Zerhouni said.
Sanofi’s old headquarters were situated close to a hospital
called  La Pitie Salpetriere  and “did we ever speak to people at
La Pitie Salpetriere? The answer is no,” Zerhouni said.  The company’s scientists are being encouraged to
collaborate with academia if this can accelerate an experimental
drug program, he said. They also now work closely with partner
companies, such as France’s  Genfit (ALGFT)  and  Vivalis SA (VLS) , Zerhouni
said.  Genzyme Deal  Partnerships and acquisitions have been the other part of
Viehbacher’s strategy to help fill in Sanofi’s drug pipeline.
Last year’s $20.1 billion purchase of U.S. biotechnology company
Genzyme Corp. gave Sanofi access to the world’s biggest maker of
medicines for rare genetic disorders.  Sanofi’s own scientists remain a pillar for the company’s
growth, Zerhouni said today.  “Our internal researchers have capacities, qualities that
have no equivalent in the world,” for their knowledge in areas
such as chemistry and monoclonal antibodies, Zerhouni said.  The company won’t reduce its R&D investments in France,
though it will be “investing differently,” he said. “We don’t
want to just cut, cut, cut.”  Sanofi’s approach is encountering some success. Five new
compounds, including the multiple sclerosis treatment Aubagio,
were submitted to regulatory authorities over the past nine
months. In total, 18 new drugs could potentially be introduced
in the market between 2012 and 2015, Zerhouni said.  The company plans to focus on a so-called “phase 0” of
 drug development , before experimental medicines are tested on
human beings, to make sure only the compounds most likely to
succeed start clinical trials, Zerhouni said.  “Quality over quantity always wins,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  