-- HSBC Said to Appoint Mark Stadler as CEO of Russian Division
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-05-31T13:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/hsbc-said-to-name-mark-stadler-to-be-ceo-of-russian-unit.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest
bank, named Mark Stadler as chief executive officer of its
Russian unit, succeeding Huseyin Ozkaya, two people with
knowledge of the decision said.  Stadler, 51, moved to London from Dubai to run the private
banking unit in the U.K. this year and was previously global
market head of  HSBC Private Bank  in the  Middle East  and North
Africa. He will start in two weeks, one of the people said.  HSBC, based in London, also named  Chris Allen  as CEO of
U.K. Private Banking, starting next month, the people said,
declining to be identified as the details aren’t public. Allen
has been HSBC Alternative Investments Ltd. CEO since 2010,
according to the bank’s website.  Both appointments are subject to regulatory approval, the
people said. A spokesman for HSBC in  London  declined to comment
on the appointments.  Ozkaya left HSBC in Aril to join Lebanon’s Bank Audi Sal-
Audi Saradar Group in Turkey. Calls to Ozkaya at Bank Audi
weren’t immediately returned.  He joined Midland Bank in Turkey in 1991 as a marketing
manager. Midland was purchased by HSBC a year later. In 2001, he
helped the bank buy Turkey’s Demirbank TAS, according to HSBC’s
 website . He moved to Russia in 2010.  HSBC, which generates most of its profit in Asia, is part
way through a plan to sell unprofitable and underperforming
assets. It sold part of its Russian consumer banking unit to
Citigroup Inc. in June to focus on corporate clients. Six months
later, it sold its Japanese private-banking business to Credit
Suisse Group AG. In July, it sold almost half its U.S. branches
to  First Niagara Financial Group Inc. (FNFG)  for about $900 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  