-- VW Said to Shake Up Management Ranks to Push Growth Goals
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-06-01T14:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/scania-ceo-said-to-move-to-vw-board-to-meld-truckmaking-units.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  will appoint a new
trucks chief, add a top executive to oversee China and replace
three members of Audi’s board as part of a management shakeup at
 Europe ’s largest carmaker to push forward with growth plans.  In the highest profile change,  Scania AB (SCVB)  Chief Executive
Officer Leif Oestling will join VW’s management board to help
forge a three-way truckmaking alliance, people familiar with the
matter said. Scania and  MAN SE (MAN) , both controlled by VW, surged
more than 6 percent on expectations of closer ties.  VW CEO Martin Winterkorn is reshuffling managers as he
pushes the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company, which reported
record profit last year, to surpass  General Motors Co. (GM)  as the
world’s largest automaker. In addition to seeking savings from
cooperation between VW’s truck brand, Scania and MAN, the CEO is
integrating Porsche and Ducati motorcycles to stretch offerings
from exotic two-wheelers to 50-ton trucks.  “It’s good and sensible to make changes during fat
years,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of
Automotive Management at the University of Applied Sciences in
 Bergisch Gladbach , Germany. “There are a number of unfinished
projects that have been overlooked because of the success of the
past few years.”  Scania  climbed  as much as 6.1 percent to 122.30 kronor and
was up 1.9 percent as of 4:06 p.m. in  Stockholm . MAN jumped as
much as 7.4 percent to 83.09 euros and was up 2.6 percent in
 Frankfurt . VW traded 3.8 percent lower.  Audi Help  Oestling will leave Scania after 40 years to replace trucks
chief Jochem Heizmann, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the supervisory board hasn’t signed off on
the moves. The changes could be announced as soon as today, they
said. VW and Scania declined to comment.  Oestling will be getting help from Audi. Ulf Berkenhagen,
the purchasing chief at the luxury-car brand, will assume a new
role coordinating procurement among the truck units, a person
familiar said. He will be replaced by Bernd Martens, who
currently works in purchasing at VW, the person said.  Audi will also replace development head Michael Dick with
Bentley chief  Wolfgang Duerheimer , and VW brand marketing head
Luca de Meo will take over for sales chief  Peter Schwarzenbauer ,
the person said. Audi did not return calls and e-mails seeking
comment.  VW has been working for six years on closer ties with MAN
and Scania. Volkswagen bought a majority holding in MAN in 2011,
then raised the stake to 73 percent in April. VW Chief Financial
Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said last month that all options
were open, including a domination agreement.  Fivefold Gain  Under Oestling, who has run Scania for 23 years, the
Soedertalje, Sweden-based company has become an industry leader
in profitability, with annual  operating profit  in the last
decade increasing fivefold. The truck and bus maker’s earnings
before interest and taxes in 2011 were 12.4 billion kronor ($1.7
billion) compared with 2.47 billion kronor in 2001.  Oestling -- who spent decades eschewing acquisitions and
fighting takeovers, including an unsuccessful effort by MAN to
purchase Scania in 2006 -- said in 2010 that combining with MAN
is necessary to lower costs.  “Leif Oestling has been one of the most important factors
in Scania’s development the last several years,” said Christer Magnergard, a DNB Bank ASA analyst in Oslo. “He should be a
strong asset to VW when it comes to fostering the cooperation
between Scania and MAN.”  New Scania Boss  Oestling will be replaced at Scania by Martin Lundstedt,
the truckmaker’s sales and marketing chief, one of the people
said. Lundstedt, born in 1967, has been with Scania since 1992,
when he began as a production engineer. He’s held several
executive positions at the company, including a stint as
production director in  France . He has been sales and marketing
chief since 2007.  VW will also create a new management board post to oversee
operations in  China , the company’s biggest market, the people
said. Current China chief Karl-Thomas Neumann won’t be nominated
for the new board post, the people said.  VW’s Chinese joint ventures plan to invest 14 billion euros
($17.3 billion) in the country through 2016 to expand
production. VW will open a new assembly plant in western China
as it pushes expansion beyond the country’s bustling coast.
Winterkorn signed a contract for the plant in Urumqi during an
April visit to Wolfsburg by Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao .  First-quarter earnings from VW ’s Chinese joint ventures,
which aren’t included in group operating results, jumped 52
percent to 848 million euros. Volkswagen group Ebit in the
period gained 10 percent to 3.21 billion euros.  Volkswagen in 2011 boosted operating profit 58 percent to a
record 11.3 billion euros.  “VW could be thinking that growth could get more difficult
and new people could bring new verve,” said Hans-Peter Wodniok,
an analyst at Fairesearch in Kronberg,  Germany . “The overall
strategy isn’t going to change much.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  