-- MSCI Prepares Index Contingency Plans for Greek Euro Exit
-- B y   A n d r e w   R u m m e r
-- 2012-05-31T18:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/msci-prepares-index-contingency-plans-for-greek-euro-exit.html
MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  and  Standard & Poor’s 
announced contingency plans for calculating their equity indexes
should Greece leave the euro currency union.  Greek shares may be excluded from benchmark gauges if the
nation suffers a “major disorderly exit” that results in
capital or currency controls or a prolonged closure of equity
markets,  according to  MSCI, the developer of gauges such as the
 MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-market stocks. The New York-based
company said today that it would take action only after an
official communication from Greece that the nation is leaving.  S&P said it would temporarily stop calculating indexes for
any country leaving the euro zone should that nation’s financial
markets close. The indexes would resume once markets reopen, S&P
said in a statement today on its website.  An inconclusive election on May 6 has stoked concern that
 Greece  will be unable to form a government willing to implement
austerity measures reached with the European Union as part of an
international bailout. A new ballot is scheduled for June 17 and
two polls released today showed that the anti-austerity Syriza
party is likely to win second place, the same result it achieved
in the first election.  “MSCI would communicate the final decisions on the
treatment of Greece in the MSCI Indices as well as the final
time line within five days following the official communication
by the Greek authorities” that the nation was leaving the euro,
the company said in the statement. “MSCI intends to reflect the
new currency in the MSCI Indices as soon as the quotes
denominated in this currency become available.”  A Greek exit wouldn’t automatically result in the exclusion
of the nation’s stocks from developed-market indexes, MSCI said.
The classification of a market is usually assessed as part of
its annual review every June, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  