-- Selfridges Opens Nine-Hole Crazy-Golf Course on Roof
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-05-31T09:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/selfridges-opens-nine-hole-crazy-golf-course-on-roof.html
Selfridges department store on
 London ’s Oxford Street today opens a nine-hole, 2,500 square-
foot crazy-golf course on the roof, surrounded by trees.  The course looks like a display of cakes, one for each
hole, representing London landmarks such at St Paul’s Cathedral
and Tower Bridge. The score card emits the aroma of Bakewell
tarts. The rooftop also houses a Daylesford Organic cafe.  The golf -- open to the public through Sept. 2 -- is the
creation of food artists  Sam Bompas & Harry Parr , whose previous
projects include a boating lake on the roof and a vibrating
jelly for chef  Heston Blumenthal .  “The Big Roof Top Tea & Golf Party is one of our ways of
celebrating the Jubilee and the Olympics,” Ewan Venters,
Selfridges director of food and restaurants, said in an
interview at the store. He said as many as 4,500 people a day
will be admitted to play golf, while the cafe may accommodate
600-800.  Tickets to play are 6 pounds ($9.32). The first bookings
sold within minutes of going on sale online. Another batch goes
on sale on June 15, while thousands of tickets have been held
back for customers who show up. The Daylesford cafe is open to
non-players. Information:  http://tinyurl.com/7b25ehu .  The  Daylesford  menu features salads, open sandwiches,
afternoon tea, Champagne and rose wine.  “Selfridges was our first outlet apart from a small farm
shop in Gloucestershire,” Daylesford Chief Executive Jamie
Mitchell said in an interview. “It’s the ideal place for us to
celebrate the Jubilee and the Olympics.”  Selfridges plans to build a permanent restaurant and
leisure area on the roof following the success of chef Pierre
Koffmann’s temporary venue in 2009. In the interwar years,
customers could dine there and even enjoy catwalk shows.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include:  Jason Harper  on  autos ,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  technology , Manuela Hoelterhoff on  Mugzie .  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 