-- Skyscrapers to Replace U.S. Base as Office Glut Looms for Seoul
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-05-31T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/skyscrapers-to-replace-u-s-base-as-office-glut-looms-for-seoul.html
Seoul ’s Yongsan area, for a century
the site of Japanese and U.S. military bases, is set to be
remade in a $26 billion project that will add office towers to a
city where the vacancy rate is almost 10 percent.  Construction of the development, the biggest in South
Korea’s history, is slated to start in the first half of next
year and be completed by the end of 2016. With a master design
by  Daniel Libeskind , the U.S. architect best known for the
Jewish Museum in Berlin and New York’s  One World Trade Center ,
it will add 67 buildings for offices, hotels, condominiums and
performance halls, as well as parks across the Han River from
Yeoui-do, Seoul’s financial district.  The development, 30 percent larger than  London ’s Canary
Wharf, is going up after the economy expanded at the slowest
annual pace in almost three years in the first quarter. About
500,000 square meters (5.4 million square feet) of  office space 
is added in Seoul each year, while the Yongsan International
Business District project alone will add more than 1 million
square meters, said real-estate service company R2Korea.  “It’ll be hard to pack the space,” said Kim Tae Ho, a
Seoul-based director at  R2Korea . “There’s concern over how they
can find local demand to meet the ample supply considering
domestic economic conditions.”  South Korea’s  economy  grew 2.8 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the  Bank of Korea  said on April 26.
Construction investment dropped 0.7 percent from the previous
three months, the biggest quarterly fall in a year, according to
the central bank.  Empty Offices  The vacancy rate for Seoul’s offices was 9.2 percent in the
first quarter of 2012, after hitting 13.6 percent in the third
quarter of 2011, the highest in at least six years, according to
data from commercial real-estate broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc.
The first-quarter vacancy in Seoul compared with 7.6 percent in
 Tokyo , 9.4 percent in  Singapore  and 4.7 percent in  Hong Kong ,
according to the New York-based company.  The project was first approved by the government in 2006,
two years after U.S. agreed to move its military base, which is
less than 2 kilometers (1.2 miles) from the site.  The 3.8 million-square-meter base, with offices, a hotel,
homes and schools for soldiers’ families, used to house almost
10,000 people. The military base will be transformed into a
nature park.  Yongsan, a transportation hub and a gateway to the capital
for 600 years, also housed the Japanese military base when Korea
was under that nation’s colonial rule in the early 1900s. Almost
a century of being home to foreign military personnel hampered
the area’s development, according to Yongsan’s website.  Project Backers  Yongsan Development Co. was set up to oversee the project,
which is backed by 30 public and private companies.  State-run Korea Railroad Corp., which owns the area’s
abandoned rail tracks and depots, and Seoul’s city-run housing
development company SH Corp. hold a combined 30 percent stake.
Private builders and financial investors including Prudential
Financial Inc. of the U.S. and Samsung Life Insurance Co.,  South
Korea ’s biggest insurer, make up the other 70 percent.  “It’s an unprecedented work,” Libeskind told reporters in
Seoul on May 2, when the developer unveiled its final design
scheme. “I have no doubt this will be a paradigm shift in the
world of urban architect. This will be a new city within
Seoul.”  The area will boast an 111-story tower, the country’s
tallest, designed by Italian architect  Renzo Piano , who is known
for the Pompidou Center in Paris, and a boutique office building
by Adrian Smith, the architect responsible for Dubai’s  Burj
Khalifa , the world’s tallest building.  Cloud Controversy  Dutch architectural firm MVRDV last year apologized and
partially redesigned twin residential and office towers that had
been dubbed the Cloud for a feature that wrapped around the
center of the buildings. The feature had been criticized in the
U.S. for its resemblance to the fireball that sprung from the
World Trade Center buildings in the Sept. 11 attacks in  New
York .  The entire project will add 67 trillion won ($56.7 billion)
to the economy and create 360,000 new jobs, the developer said.
Real-estate analysts say construction of the project, which
spans an area the size of 48 soccer fields, may need to be
slowed so new supply doesn’t increase vacancy rates.  “A mega project like the  Yongsan  redevelopment will boost
the office vacancy rate, which is already high in Seoul,” said
Kim So Jin, a researcher at real-estate service firm  Kyobo
Realco Inc.  in the South Korean capital. “I don’t see any
foreseeable increase in demand while there’re lots of other
high-rise buildings to be added over the next several years.”  City’s Gateway  Yongsan was one of the main entry points to Seoul’s old
city, which became  Korea ’s capital at the onset of the Chosun
dynasty in the 1390s. It housed the city’s main rail station
more recently. As the city swelled around Yongsan to be home to
almost a quarter of South Korea’s population, with 10.5 million
as of March, newer districts developed more quickly.  Seoul’s first skyscrapers sprouted in the Jongno district
as the nation’s economy expanded in the early 1970s, when former
president Park Chung Hee drove heavy manufacturing-based
industrialization. That area is seeing buildings modernized to
keep up with newer offices south of the Han river, where Samsung
Electronics Co., the nation’s biggest company, and Hyundai Motor
Co., its biggest carmaker, are now headquartered.  The Yeoui-do area, across the river from the Yongsan
project, features new high-rise buildings that house financial
institutions including bourse operator Korea Exchange Inc.  Despite competition for tenants from other areas of Seoul,
Yongsan Development is betting global names and high-tech firms
will seek out its towers.  “This kind of thing hasn’t happened and won’t happen
again,” Kim Chang Dae, vice president of the developer, said in
Seoul on May 2. “Some people say risks are lurking in this huge
project, but we’re confident this can be successful. This will
be able to attract investors from home and abroad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  