-- SL Green to Buy Flatiron District Building for $135 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-05-31T17:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/sl-green-to-pay-135-million-for-flatiron-district-building.html
SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) ,  New York ’s
biggest owner of office buildings, agreed to pay $135 million
for a property in the Flatiron District, an area that has had
some of the city’s strongest rent growth.  SL Green is under contract to buy 304 Park Avenue South, a
215,000 square-foot (20,000-square-meter) office and retail
building at East 23rd St., the New York-based real estate
investment trust said today in a statement. The 11-story
property is across from 1 Madison Ave., a 1.2 million-square-
foot building that SL Green also owns.  “We’ve been monitoring Midtown South carefully, looking
for acquisition opportunities,” President Andrew Mathias said
in the statement. The building is “a classic SL Green
investment -- off-market, potential repositioning, and creating
value upon acquisition for both the company and the seller.”  Internet technology, media, fashion and advertising firms
have flocked to  Midtown South , driving rents for the best
offices up 16 percent this year through April 30, according to
brokerage Cushman & Wakefield Inc. The area has the lowest
 vacancy rate  of any U.S. office market, also boosting real
estate values, Mathias said.  The purchase was in part the result of SL Green’s
relationship with the seller, a partnership headed by David
Berley, chairman of New York-based Walter & Samuels Inc.,
Mathias said. The price values the building at $628 a square
foot, according to the statement.  Area ‘Took Off’  When the partnership, which acquired a stake in the
building in 1996, bought out co-owner GE Capital Corp. in 2005,
the deal valued the property at about $65 million, Berley said.  “It was a pretty seedy neighborhood back in the ’70s,” he
said in a telephone interview. “By the ’90s, when I got
involved, it already started to change. It’s caught everyone
flat-footed how this area took off. Some of these locations get
more than uptown now. It’s unbelievable.”  Doug Harmon, senior managing director at Eastdil Secured
LLC, served as adviser on the transaction, which is scheduled
for completion tomorrow, SL Green said.  The company is funding the deal half with cash and half
with operating partnership units, SL Green said. The units are a
form of  stock  that allows the seller to postpone some negative
tax consequences, said Berley, who is keeping a minority stake
in the property.  The building is 95 percent leased. The lead office tenant
is IMG Models, a division of sports and entertainment company
IMG Worldwide, whose clients include  Gisele Bundchen ,  Heidi Klum 
and Kate Upton. Retail tenants include H&R Block, Bath & Body
Works and Time Warner Entertainment, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  