-- Slovenia Austerity Program Comes to Force
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-05-31T10:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/slovenia-austerity-program-comes-to-force.html
Slovenia’s government will continue
with its austerity measures to cut the  budget deficit  after a
trade union said it will challenge some of the moves at the
 Constitutional Court .  Lawmakers in Ljubljana on May 11 adopted a revised budget
and other savings measures that foresee public-sector wage cuts
and reduced benefit payments as the euro-region nation seeks to
implement the so-called fiscal compact inspired by  Germany .  The union representing soldiers and other employees at the
 Defense Ministry  will ask the Constitutional Court to decide on
the matter “due to unjust and unconstitutional provisions in
the austerity legislation,” the group said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  “This is just a first step,” the  Finance Ministry  in
Ljubljana said today in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg
questions. “Now we will focus on pension and labor market
changes, on easing the burden for the economy via the creation
of a wealth fund, as well as healing of the banking industry.”  Slovenia, whose public debt more than doubled since the
2007 introduction of the euro, pledged to cut spending by about
800 million euros ($994 million) this year to win investors’
confidence over the sustainability of its debt load as the
crisis in  Europe  intensifies on concern that Spain may be the
next country to ask for a bailout.  The economy grew 0.2 percent in the first quarter from the
previous three months, exiting a recession as demand outweighed
a drop in investments, the statistics office said today.  Two police unions yesterday dropped their demand to
organize a referendum on the austerity package after reaching an
agreement with the government. A referendum would have delayed
the implementation of the measures, according to  Finance
Minister Janez Sustersic.  In an interview with the weekly Demokracija, Sustersic said
the euro region country would “be pushed to the verge of
bankruptcy” if the call for a referendum went through.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  