-- Slovenian Economy Unexpectedly Exits Recession on Demand
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-05-31T14:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/slovenian-economy-unexpectedly-exits-recession-on-demand-1-.html
Slovenia’s  economy  unexpectedly
exited its recession in the first quarter as gains in domestic
consumption offset slower investment growth.  Gross domestic product advanced 0.2 percent from the
previous three months, when it contracted 0.7 percent, the
statistics office in the capital Ljubljana said on its website
today. Economic output fell 0.2 percent from a year earlier, it
said. A Bloomberg survey of six economists forecast a 1.5
percent contraction from a year ago.  “It’s a surprise and it seems we were too pessimistic
about growth in this period,” Bojan Ivanc, an analyst at KD
Bank d.d. in Ljubljana, said by phone. “But the outlook for the
next quarters isn’t promising.”  Slovenia fell into its second recession in three years in
the last quarter of 2011 after austerity measures and the debt
crisis damped demand for its exported goods. GDP will shrink 2
percent in 2012, according to an estimate by the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development. That compares with a
1.4 percent fall forecast by the European Commission and a 0.9
percent drop estimated by the government’s economic institute.  Economic Boost  The Adriatic country will spend 377 million euros ($468
million) to spur the economy, Radovan Zerjav, the Economy
Minister told reporters today in Ljubljana.  “The money will go into subsidies, guarantees and public
investments,” Zerjav said. Reducing bureaucracy, creating
industrial zones for small companies as well as changes in
legislation to speed up investment in the  construction industry 
are among the proposals the government expects will boost
growth, he said.  Prime Minister  Janez Jansa ’s government is trying to trim
the  budget deficit  by implementing an 800 million-euro ($993
million) savings package to win back investor confidence and
reduce borrowing costs, which surged in November.  The economy will probably shrink 0.4 percent next year,
according to the OECD.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  