-- Soccer Rulers Slam Player-Trade Investment as Outsiders Cash In
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-05-31T00:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/soccer-rulers-slam-player-trade-investment-as-outsiders-cash-in.html
Soccer’s world and European governing
bodies want to ban the purchase of stakes in player-trade
rights, an investment that earned a 64 percent return on a
single bet for a fund managed by  Banco Espirito Santo SA. (BES)   The bets on younger players, which began in  South America 
in the 1990s, are spreading to  Europe ’s $3 billion transfer
market as clubs seek alternative funding amid tighter bank
lending. According to Bloomberg calculations, a 4.4 million-euro
($5.4 million) purchase of 20 percent of the rights in Benfica
playmaker Angel di Maria by Lisbon-based Espirito Santo’s fund
in 2009 will yield a profit of as much as 64 percent after he
joined Real Madrid for as much as 36 million euros in 2010. The
money will be paid over several years.  World ruling body FIFA, which currently allows so-called
third-party ownership provided investors don’t interfere in the
transfer market, sees no benefit to soccer from the operations,
according to Geoff Thompson, chairman of its Dispute Resolution
Chamber. FIFA wants the practice banned.  “We don’t want third-party ownership, to be frank,”
Thompson said in a phone interview. “FIFA is trying to get rid
of the practice but it’s a matter of resources. It doesn’t do
anybody any good and certainly doesn’t do the clubs any good or
indeed the players.”  Thompson said the organization will discuss the matter at a
meeting in July. The English Premier League and  France ’s Ligue 1
have already prohibited it, and European ruling body UEFA is
consulting stakeholders as it considers taking action. UEFA may
ban clubs that sell transfer stakes from its Champions League
and Europa League competitions, General Secretary Gianni Infantino said in an interview in Budapest last week.  Real Zaragoza  In Spain, Real Zaragoza used money from investors,
including its owner Agapito Iglesias, to sign goalkeeper Roberto
Jimenez from Benfica for 8.6 million euros last year, Chief
Executive Officer Francisco Checa said. It has helped the team
stay competitive at a time when it doesn’t have funds of its own
to sign players, Checa added. Jimenez didn’t allow any goals as
Zaragoza beat Getafe 2-0 on May 13 to avoid relegation from
 Spain ’s elite La Liga.  Some of the biggest returns have been made by player agents
in South America. Sao Paulo-based Juan Figer may have earned as
much as 19 million euros when Porto acquired 90 percent of
striker Hulk’s transfer rights in two tranches in 2008 and 2011
from Uruguay’s Club Atletico Rentistas, according to fees the
Portuguese club disclosed in regulatory filings.  German Fund  One of Montevideo’s smaller teams, Rentistas signs Figer’s
clients such as Hulk without fielding them in its team and
redirects fees to a company owned by the agent called Lamico
when they are traded, according to Rentistas President Mario
Bursztyn. Rentistas gets a monthly retainer fee under the
arrangement. Figer’s spokesman Jose Aparecida Miguel declined to
comment about the process.  In  Germany , Hanseatisches Fussball Kontor GmbH runs a fund
owning stakes in the transfer rights of more than 20 lower-
league players. Kai-Volker Langhinrichs, managing director of
Hanseatisches Fussball, said by phone on Feb. 28 that he’s
monitoring whether FIFA makes any change to its regulations on
transfer-rights ownership.  The Schwerin, Germany-based  company  signs a contract with
each of the clubs it does deals with under which it agrees not
to interfere with trades, thus complying with FIFA’s existing
rules, Langhinrichs said.  The FTR 1 Fussball fund managed by Hanseatisches raised
more than 1 million euros after promising returns of 138 percent
over four years to investors. Hanseatisches Fussball also opened
a second fund, Langhinrichs said. The model is attractive to
many second- and third-division teams, which are struggling for
revenue because of lower sponsorships and ticket sales amid slow
economic growth, Langhinrichs added.  Thompson said  FIFA’s  rule on interference in the transfer
market is difficult to police and he believes many investors do
have a say when players are sold.  “I’d like to see it totally eliminated from the game,” he
said. “If you haven’t got the appropriate police force, you
can’t enforce it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  