-- Somalia’s al-Qaeda-Linked Rebels Hurt by Loss of Towns
-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-06-01T15:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/somalia-s-al-qaeda-linked-rebels-undermined-as-key-towns-seized.html
Hasan Madey jumped from his seat
outside his tin-shack restaurant in Afgoye, southern  Somalia , as
two explosions detonated outside the town’s police station a
third of a mile away.  After reassuring phone calls from friends that there were
no casualties, Madey, 26, sat down and surveyed the deserted
roads and shuttered shops. Days after  African Union  and Somali
soldiers freed the town from the rule of al-Shabaab, the al-
Qaeda-linked militia, residents and the 460,000 displaced people
in the area still fear reprisal attacks from the Islamist
militants, Madey said.  “Al-Shabaab threatened to kill anyone who collaborates
with African Union and government forces,” he said in an
interview in the town on May 28.  Somalia’s army extended its control of southern Somalia in
a series of advances that began in August, when the militants
fled the capital, Mogadishu. Victories since then have included
Baidoa, the third-biggest city, and towns such as al-Fitr, where
al-Shabaab sought to impose its rule by amputating the limbs of
people caught stealing, banning music on  radio stations  and
taxing farmers. The military gains haven’t stopped the rebels
from carrying out suicide bombings and grenade attacks.  “Al-Shabaab has been massively undermined by both the
increase in troops and the increasing attention being paid to
Somalia from outside,” Adjoa Anyimadu, research assistant for
the Africa program at  Chatham House , said in a phone interview
from  London . “The problem with al-Shabaab is that it’s not one
army against another. Somalia is fighting a conventional war,
but al-Shabaab isn’t.”  President Ambushed  Somali President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed got first-hand
evidence of that on May 29 when his convoy was ambushed by
suspected al-Shabaab fighters on the road between Mogadishu and
Afgoye, injuring three presidential guards. Sheikh Sharif was
visiting Afgoye for the first time since it had been freed.  Capturing Afgoye, in Somalia’s agricultural heartland,
gives the government control of a route linking Mogadishu with
Baidoa in the southwest and ports in Kismayo and Merka. It may
also sever a financial artery for al-Shabaab. Income from
Somalia’s southern ports earns the militia as much as $50
million a year from trade in sugar, charcoal and contraband,
according to the  United Nations .  Kismayo Targeted  Kenyan forces working alongside the African Union
peacekeepers from  Uganda  and Burundi in Somalia plan to target
Kismayo next, after announcing they’d captured the towns of
Afmadow and Hoya, Kenya Defence Forces spokesman Emmanuel Chirchir said on May 30. Kenya began an incursion into southern
Somalia in October following cross-border raids by gunmen in
which at least four foreign workers were abducted and a British
tourist was killed. Ethiopian troops captured Baidoa in
December.  Eritrea, which is under UN sanctions because of its alleged
support for al-Shabaab, signed an agreement with Uganda to help
establish a national government in Somalia and ensure security
in the region, President Isaias Afwerki’s administration said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement from the capital, Asmara.
Eritea denies backing the insurgents and says the sanctions
aren’t justified.  ‘Consolidate Peace’  “We must agree on time-bound programs to consolidate peace
in Somalia, to support a legitimate and inclusive political
process, and to jump-start recovery, reintroduction of the rule
of law, and post-conflict reconstruction and development,”
Kenyan Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  said today in a speech in
Istanbul.  Somalia has been wracked by civil war since the ouster of
the former dictator Mohamed Siad Barre two decades ago. The
conflict has forced more than 1.3 million people to flee their
homes, creating the world’s largest concentration of internally
displaced people in the so-called Afgoye corridor, according to
the African Union.  Regaining control of Afgoye will enable aid workers,
previously blocked by al-Shabaab, to provide food and shelter to
people who have sought refuge there. The victory will also
comfort donors, who pledged at a conference on Somalia in the
U.K. in February to increase support to combat piracy and
promote political stability, Anyimadu said.  Sanctions Threat  Somalia’s government is implementing a so-called political
road map that envisages parliamentary and presidential elections
being held by Aug. 20, following the adoption of a new
constitution on July 1. The accord is aimed at ending a series
of transitional governments that have failed to stop Somalia’s
two-decade-long civil war. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  warned in London that the current government, whose
mandate expires in August, will face sanctions if it doesn’t
step down.  Piracy off the coast of Somalia cost the global economy
almost $7 billion last year, according to the Colorado-based One
Earth Future Foundation. About 20 percent of world trade passes
through the  Gulf of Aden  between Yemen and Somalia, which is
used to get to  Egypt ’s  Suez Canal , connecting the Red Sea and
Mediterranean. It is the fastest crossing from the Atlantic
Ocean to the  Indian Ocean .  Political reform has been slowed by fractious political
leaders and corruption,  Rashid Abdi , an independent researcher
on Somalia who consults for non-governmental organizations, said
in an interview on May 28. These divisions may prevent the
government from cementing its grip even as al-Shabaab cedes more
territory to African troops, he said.  ‘Terribly Dysfunctional’  “The truth is that there’s a huge difference between the
military track and the political one,” Abdi said. “The
military is making progress, but on the political track there is
a stalemate and it’s terribly dysfunctional.”  Al-Shabaab’s ability to carry out guerrilla attacks will be
difficult for the government to contain, Anyimadu said. Al-
Shabaab said on May 28 it withdrew from Afgoye in a tactical
move and will continue with hit-and-run assaults. More than 15
people were killed in April when a female suicide bomber blew up
Somalia’s national theater.  Madey, who was born in Afgoye, says he has to set aside his
fears over security and stay in the town, because he has nowhere
else to go.  “Al-Shabaab was a ruthless group,” he said. “They were
very unkind and they terrorized us all the time, but we are
worried now because we don’t know if the government forces will
remain here and make peace.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu at 
 ohamsa@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  