-- South African Trade Deficit Widens as Mineral Exports Slump
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-05-31T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/south-african-trade-deficit-widens-as-mineral-exports-slump.html
South Africa’s trade deficit
unexpectedly grew for the first time in three months in April as
mineral and metal exports slumped, the South African Revenue
Service said.  The  shortfall  expanded to 9.9 billion rand ($1.2 billion)
from 5.5 billion rand in March, the Pretoria-based South African
Revenue Service said today in an e-mailed statement. The  median
estimate  of nine economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a
deficit of 5 billion rand.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the world’s second-largest
platinum producer, on May 29 said output of the metal fell 46
percent because of a six-week strike. Last month’s decline in
exports may widen the deficit in the current-account, the
broadest measure of trade of goods and services, weakening the
rand.  Exports dropped 14.9 percent to 52.2 billion rand in April
from the previous month, led by a 23 percent fall in precious
and semi-precious stone and metals shipments, the revenue
service said. Imports slipped 7.2 percent to 62 billion rand as
shipments of mineral products fell 25 percent.  The  current-account gap  eased to 3.6 percent of gross
domestic product in the fourth quarter from 4.1 percent in the
previous three months, the central bank said on March 19. The
deficit will probably reach 4.3 percent this year, according to
the government.  South Africa  relies on foreign investment in stocks and
bonds to finance the current-account deficit, inflows that have
fluctuated this year as slower economic growth led investors to
sell riskier, emerging-market assets. The rand has fallen 5.2
percent against the dollar this year and was trading as low as
8.5808 today.  The monthly trade figures are often volatile, reflecting
the timing of shipments of commodities such as oil and diamonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  