-- South African Oil Imports From Iran Drop as Sanctions Loom
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-05-31T13:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/south-african-oil-imports-from-iran-drop-to-1-8-billion-rand.html
South Africa  has been reducing oil
imports from Iran before next month’s U.S. deadline to impose
sanctions against the Middle Eastern nation over its nuclear
development program.  South Africa received shipments of crude worth 1.8 billion
rand ($211 million) from Iran last month, down from 2.93 billion
rand in April 2011, the South African Revenue Service said today
in an e-mailed statement. In March, oil imports from Iran
totaled 3.37 billion rand, 63 percent more than in the same
period a year earlier.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  signed a law on Dec. 31 that
denies access to the U.S. financial system to foreign banks that
do business with the Central Bank of Iran. The U.S. may impose
penalties should a country not make “significant” reductions
in Iranian crude oil purchases by June 28. Governments may apply
for a 180-day renewable exemption from the sanctions.  The issue wasn’t discussed at a Cabinet meeting yesterday,
government spokesman Jimmy Manyi said in an interview today in
 Cape Town . South African Energy Minister Dipuo Peters said May
17 that the government would draw up a response to the sanctions
by the end of this month.  Iran’s nuclear development program has sparked accusations
from the U.S. and the European Union that enriched uranium may
be diverted to produce weapons.  South Africa’s crude imports totaled 8.31 billion rand in
April, with 22 percent coming from Iran, 56 percent from  Saudi
Arabia  and 23 percent from  Nigeria , the revenue service said.
Oil shipments from Iran increased 5 percent to 7.95 billion rand
in the first four months of the year.  Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s Engen unit, which was the biggest
South African importer of Iranian crude, said April 4 it
suspended imports of oil from  Iran .  The suspension remains in place and alternative supplies of
crude have been sourced, Engen spokeswoman Tania Landsberg said
in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  