-- South Dakotans Driving at 14 Faulted for Fatal Crashes
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/south-dakotans-driving-at-14-faulted-for-fatal-crashes.html
South Dakota , the U.S. state with the
youngest licensed motorists, could cut fatal wrecks involving
teens by more than half if it raises the minimum age to operate
a vehicle and limits nighttime driving, an insurance group said.  The state, where a 14-year-old can get a learner’s permit,
could reduce the rate of deadly crashes among drivers age 15 to
17 by 63 percent by boosting the  licensing age , prohibiting
teens from driving after 8 p.m. and restricting passengers,
according to an analysis by the Insurance Institute for Highway
Safety, an Arlington, Virginia-based nonprofit.  If such restrictions applied in all states, 500 fewer
people would die in crashes each year, the organization said
today in a statement accompanying its analysis.  “Any delay in the licensing age would have a beneficial
effect,” Anne McCartt, IIHS senior vice president for research,
said in a phone interview. “There could be tremendous benefits
in some states from them taking a look at teen-licensing laws
and toughening them up.”  Motor-vehicle crashes killed 21 people and injured 1,135 in
South Dakota this year through May 4, according to the state’s
 Department of Public Safety . In 2010, there were 140 such
deaths, or 17.2 per 100,000 state residents, compared with a
 national rate  of 10.7, according to the IIHS.  South Dakota’s low driving age stems from its rural
character and opposition to  government regulation , said state
Senator Joni Cutler, a member of the transportation committee
who said she supports increasing the permit age to 15 or 16.  ‘Driving Tractors’  “It goes back to the rural agricultural history of the
state, where it’s not uncommon for kids to start driving
tractors in the field,” said Cutler, a Republican from  Sioux
Falls . “For those of us who live in populated areas, we don’t
quite see it the same way. I don’t really like to be out on the
busy streets of South Dakota, near our shopping mall, in five
o’clock traffic with a 14-year-old who’s driving an SUV.”  Cutler, 56, proposed a bill to prohibit teens from sending
 text messages  while driving. It failed to gain the support of a
state committee because lawmakers feared being seen as
supporting too much government legislation, she said.  The state legislature created a  task force  last year to
consider ways to improve teen-driver safety, said Cindy Gerber,
director of driver licensing in the state Department of Public
Safety. The group will report its findings in January, she said.  The IIHS recommends that all states set the licensing age
at 17 and issue learner’s permits to those at least 16 years
old, require 65 hours of supervised driving practice, restrict
nighttime driving and ban teens from having teen passengers. No
state follows all of the guidelines, McCartt said.  New Jersey , the only state that bars people from driving
without supervision until age 17, could reduce fatal crashes
involving teen drivers by 25 percent if it adopts all of the
rules, according to IIHS.  New York  could lower the rate by 24
percent and  Connecticut  by 17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  