-- Southern’s Nuclear Reactors May Be Delayed, Monitor Says
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-05-31T22:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/southern-s-nuclear-construction-faces-added-delays-monitor-says.html
Southern Co. (SO) ’s new nuclear reactors
face delays that may boost costs beyond the $14 billion
budgeted, an independent construction monitor said.  The reactors, due to be completed in 2016 and 2017, are
already running seven-and-a-half months late and could be set
back further by “additional potential delays recently
identified” by Southern’s construction partners, William Jacobs
said in testimony filed on the Georgia  Public Service (PEG) 
Commission’s website today.  Jacobs said the latest delays stem from improperly
installed rebar and a design issue, the details of which were
redacted from his testimony to protect  trade secrets .  Southern and the three co-owners of the Vogtle nuclear
construction, 26 miles southeast of Augusta, Georgia, “face
significant challenges in maintaining the project forecast at or
below” the budget approved by  Georgia  regulators, Jacobs said.
“A possible schedule delay as discussed above would impact the
financing cost of the project.”  Thomas Fanning, chairman and chief executive officer of
Atlanta-based Southern, disclosed the rebar problem April 25 and
acknowledged Vogtle’s construction schedule had been affected
when the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission took a half-year
longer than anticipated to approve the design.  Jacobs, who is hired by Georgia regulators to monitor the
project, said federal inspectors determined in April that rebar
installed at Vogtle didn’t follow the design approved by the NRC
or code established by the American Concrete Institute.  Removing Rebar  After “lengthy” negotiations with federal regulators,
Southern and its construction partners agreed to remove some of
the installed rebar and follow the original design, Jacobs said.  Doing so would delay pouring of first nuclear concrete, a
construction milestone, by about three months until September or
October, Jacobs said.  Southern and its partners have not worked out a
construction schedule for the Vogtle reactors and are
negotiating who will pay for initial cost overruns expected to
total $400 million for Southern, based on its 45.7 percent
ownership stake.  A Southern spokesman didn’t immediately return a voice-mail
message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  