-- SpaceX’s Achievement Should Prod NASA to Think Big
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-31T23:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/spacex-s-achievement-should-prod-nasa-to-think-big.html
On Thursday, a space capsule known as
the Dragon touched down in the  Pacific Ocean .  After launching into orbit May 22, the capsule had
performed a series of complicated maneuvers, docked with the
International  Space Station , dropped off more than 1,000 pounds
of supplies and returned home bearing a load of science
experiments.  It was the first commercial spacecraft to complete such a
feat. And the company that developed it, Space Exploration
Technologies Corp., or SpaceX, was rewarded with a U.S.
government contract of $1.6 billion to fly 12 more supply
missions.  Optimists saw a nimble private company leveraging public
investment, reducing future taxpayer burdens and heralding a new
age of commercial space flight.  Skeptics saw a heavily subsidized contractor delivering
expensive equipment to an aging government-run colossus,
spinning endlessly in unproductive orbit.  Both have a point. SpaceX’s achievement is impressive, and
private enterprise seems likely to bring much-needed efficiency
to the government’s space program. The problem is that, even if
this new partnership delivers all its promised benefits, U.S.
space policy will still have no clear objective.  Good Deal  Despite numerous setbacks, SpaceX looks like a relatively
good deal for taxpayers. Elon Musk, the company’s billionaire
founder,  says  its missions will cost one-eighth what space
shuttle flights did, and a  study  last year by the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration found that SpaceX spent far
less than what  NASA  would have to develop the rocket that
launched the Dragon capsule. Ambitiously, the company aims to
carry humans into space by 2015.  All of which sounds great. Except that SpaceX’s contract is
simply to continue supplying the space station -- a delightful
symbol of international collaboration that has so far cost $100
billion and produced almost nothing of scientific value. Until a
national consensus emerges about what we want to accomplish in
space, this expensive cycle looks likely to continue.  In other words, we’ll be spinning our wheels, albeit with
Musk-like efficiency, unless NASA asserts sharper objectives for
the post-shuttle world and makes clear how it will encourage --
and make use of -- its growing symbiosis with the private-sector
space industry.  In the best case, SpaceX and its competitors, including
 Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB) , will safely supply the space station at
lower cost until it shuts down, probably in 2020. Once they
demonstrate their efficiency and reliability, NASA can cede more
of its prosaic tasks to the private sector.  This should free the space agency to concentrate on
carrying out advanced missions. The most important will be
manned space flight, the part of NASA’s portfolio that has
always been especially popular and inspiring, and which has
reliably  attracted money  from Congress.  If we’re to get beyond near-Earth orbit, NASA needs to
articulate the ultimate goal of these expensive expeditions. A
government advisory group known as the  Augustine Committee 
offered a smart way to think about this in a 2009 report. It
suggested a “flexible path” for future missions, in which humans
and robots would work in tandem to explore a logical progression
of destinations -- such as the moon and asteroids -- in the
inner solar system.  Mars, Beyond  As successive goals are reached, and our ability to operate
in deep space improves at each step, human trips to Mars and
beyond will become increasingly viable. Working with
international partners should be a priority in such an approach,
and it will be up to the U.S. government to once again show
leadership as humanity pushes farther into the solar system --
hopefully with some help from companies like SpaceX.  We’re under no illusions that spending on space is tough
when there are so many problems on Earth. But remember: All that
money is being spent terrestrially, and in specific
congressional districts. By conservative  estimates , a dollar
spent on the space program yields about $2 in direct and
indirect economic benefits. That spending has sustained a civil
workforce with technical expertise, led to advances in
everything from communications to medicine, and inspired a
generation of young people to enter science and engineering.  Harnessing the power of private enterprise will only
enhance these benefits. SpaceX says that with commercial sales
and its government missions, it already has $4 billion in
revenue under contract. Musk told Bloomberg News in February
that there’s a good chance the company will go public next year.
One day, SpaceX could reduce the costs of space flight enough to
make money ferrying rich people to the cosmos.  We wish them and their competitors the best. But we hope
that the U.S. presence in space can still stand for something
more profound and enduring than tourism.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  fighting  childhood
obesity ; William Pesek on  Hong Kong ’s growth concerns;  Noah
Feldman  on  China’s social-media censorship ;  Luigi Zingales  on
 market-friendly financial regulation ; Josh Barro on  taking over
failing cities .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 