-- SpaceX Vehicle Returns to Earth After Leaving Space Station
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-05-31T20:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/spacex-vehicle-returns-to-earth-after-leaving-space-station.html
Space Exploration Technologies
Corp.’s supply ship returned to Earth, completing the first
private mission to the International  Space Station .  Closely held SpaceX, controlled by billionaire Elon Musk,
on May 25 became the first company to dock a craft at the
station. The feat was previously accomplished only by the U.S.,
European, Japanese and Russian governments.  The ship parachuted into the Pacific Ocean at 11:42 a.m.
 New York  time, about 560 miles off the coast of southern
 California . It returned with about 1,400 pounds of cargo.  “This really couldn’t have gone better,” Musk said during
a press conference after today’s splashdown. His first thought
on seeing the vehicle in the water was, “Welcome home, baby,”
he said.  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration retired
its shuttle fleet last year and wants the private sector to take
over ferrying supplies and eventually astronauts to the station.
SpaceX, based in Hawthorne, California, may begin regular
resupply missions to the lab in September.  Astronauts released the so-called Dragon capsule from the
station’s 60-foot-long robotic arm at 5:49 a.m., according to
 NASA .  “Dragon smoothly undocked, moved out, released and on its
way home,” Dutch astronaut Andre Kuipers tweeted from the space
station. “Job done!” he wrote in another post.  SpaceX Launch  SpaceX had boats waiting just outside the landing area to
recover the vehicle.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s P-3 Orion aircraft,
which perform maritime surveillance, tracked the space vehicle.  The company launched its Falcon 9 rocket, carrying the
capsule, in a predawn liftoff on May 22 from  Cape Canaveral ,
Florida. A previously scheduled attempt on May 19 was called off
with a half-second left in the countdown because of a faulty
engine valve.  The mission, which came almost three years late, was
praised by supporters as a breakthrough for commercial
spaceflight. The Dragon craft, like the shuttle and unlike
others that now service the station, has the ability to return
significant amounts of science experiments to Earth.  SpaceX has a contract valued at $1.6 billion for a dozen
resupply flights to the station. The work was contingent on
successful demonstration of the technology.  Falcon Heavy  Musk has said the company will be ready to launch
astronauts within three or four years. If people were aboard
Dragon for this mission, “they would have been OK,” he said at
today’s briefing.  SpaceX also plans to compete for military business using
the Falcon 9 and its Falcon Heavy rocket. The larger Falcon
Heavy’s first flight is now planned for 2013 instead of later
this year.  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB) , based in Dulles, Virginia, plans to
fly its new Antares rocket in August from a new launch pad near
Wallops Island on Virginia’s Eastern Shore. It’s scheduled to
deliver supplies to the station with its Cygnus craft in
December as part of a test mission similar to SpaceX’s.  Other companies working with NASA include Chicago-based
 Boeing Co. (BA) ; Kent, Washington-based Blue Origin LLC, created by
 Jeff Bezos , founder and chief executive officer of  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) ; and Sierra Nevada Corp., based in Sparks, Nevada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  