-- Spain’s Guindos Says Future of Euro at Stake in Spain
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-06-01T14:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/spain-s-guindos-says-future-of-euro-at-stake-in-spain.html
Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said the euro’s future will be played out in the coming
weeks in  Italy  and  Spain , as data showed record levels of
capital leaving his country.  “I don’t know if we’re on the edge of the precipice, but
we’re in a very, very, very difficult situation,” he told a
conference in Sitges, Spain, yesterday. Spain and Italy are
where the “battle for the euro” is being fought, he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  denied that it was
preparing financial aid for Spain, as data yesterday showed that
66.2 billion euros ($81.8 billion) of net capital flows left the
country in March.  Spain is at the crux of the debt crisis now in its third
year as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government tries to shore
up the country’s banks amid a recession and the highest
unemployment in  Europe . The crisis has exposed the disparities
in the 17-nation euro region’s economy, with Spain’s extra
borrowing costs over  Germany ’s rising to the highest in the
euro’s history this week.  Euro Record  The yield on Spain’s 10-year government bond was at 6.47
percent at 3:40 p.m. in Madrid versus a euro-era record of 6.78
percent on Nov. 17. German benchmark 10-year yields were at
1.189 percent, while two-year note yields fell below zero for
the first time amid demand for the safest assets.  The euro region needs to integrate further in order to
overcome the crisis and de Guindos said he expected “signals”
in the coming days and weeks on integrating deposit-guarantee
funds and banking supervision. “We all agree” on the need to
move toward a “banking union,” he said.  Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro also said today the euro
region is moving toward greater integration of the banking
industry. That should include allowing the European Stability
Mechanism to sidestep governments and recapitalize banks
directly, he said. The European Commission and the European
Central Bank support giving the region’s permanent-rescue fund
those powers, even as Germany has said it objects.  Direct Aid  “The mechanism of direct aid to banks is part of the
European banking union,” he told reporters after the Cabinet
meeting.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said after meeting
Spanish Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria in
 Washington  yesterday that the lender is “not doing any work in
relation to any financial support” for Spain. De Guindos also
denied a report yesterday by the Wall Street Journal that the
IMF’s European department started contingency plans for a rescue
loan to Spain.  Still, senior executives at  Banco Sabadell SA (SAB)  and Bankinter
SA said Spain’s banking industry was nearer to needing a
European bailout since the nationalization of Bankia group on
May 9. Maria Dolores Dancausa, Bankinter’s chief executive
officer, told Spain’s public broadcaster today that the industry
is in a “critical” situation and there may be no alternative
to a bailout.  Capital Outflows  De Guindos said the  balance  of payments data, which showed
an outflow of 97 billion euros in the first quarter, didn’t
reflect “capital flight,” and underlined how Spanish banks
were struggling to roll over funding on money markets. The
outflow from individuals was about 1 billion euros in the first
quarter, he said.  “What this shows is not capital flight, but the financing
difficulties of Spanish banks in money markets,” he said.
“Spanish banks are having growing difficulties accessing money
markets mainly in Europe: in the U.S. the money markets are very
much closed to all European banks.”  Spanish banks are increasingly dependent on the  European
Central Bank  for funding and data show the nation’s lenders were
among the main beneficiaries of the central bank’s three-year
financing operations. At the same time, foreign investors are
shunning Spanish public debt, making the government reliant on
national banks to buy its bonds.  Foreign investors held 37 percent of Spain’s outstanding
bonds in April, down from 50 percent at the end of last year,
while Spanish banks increased their holdings to 29 percent from
17 percent, Treasury data show. De Guindos said the
“fragmentation” and increasing national focus of  capital
markets  is “worrying.”  Still, he’s confident the Greek elections on June 17 will
produce a government committed to sticking with the euro and
meeting its pledges. That “central scenario” will help bring
down Spanish bond yields, he said.  “If in Spain things are done right, the  risk premium  comes
down and we start seeing capital flows moving normally again,
that will be a touchstone for the euro project to continue
ahead,” he said. “If not, we will have problems for the euro
project itself, as we know it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  