-- Spain Hasn’t Asked for IMF Aid, No Help Planned
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-05-31T18:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/spain-hasn-t-asked-for-imf-aid-no-help-planned.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
it is not preparing financial aid for  Spain  and the country
denied any talks about a bailout even as its borrowing costs
approach euro-era records.  “There’s been no request for financial assistance from
Spain and the IMF is not making plans for financial assistance
to Spain,” Gerry Rice, the IMF’s director of external
relations, told reporters in  Washington  today.  Spain, which this month nationalized Bankia group, the
country’s third-largest bank, is trying to shore up lenders and
help cash-strapped regions as its own 10-year bond  yields 
approach the 7 percent level that prompted bailouts in Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal .  It is “senseless” to say Spain is talking to the IMF,
Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said during a
conference in Sitges, near Barcelona, after the Wall Street
Journal reported that the IMF’s European department started
contingency plans for a rescue loan to Spain should the country
fail to find funds to bail out Bankia.  “The IMF’s spokesman today said no bailout is contemplated
for Spain. I have nothing to add further than refer to his
comment,” Carmen Martinez Castro, deputy minister for
communication, said in a telephone interview.  Lagarde, Santamaria  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  will meet Spanish
Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria later today to
discuss “recent economic developments in Spain,” Rice said. An
IMF team will start its annual assessment of the country’s
economy on June 4.  Asked to comment on the Wall Street Journal report, another
IMF spokesman, who did not want to be identified, said the body
always has contingency plans. Part of the job is to be prepared
for any eventuality, he said. The IMF is always discussing
scenarios with all member countries, the spokesman said.  Rice reiterated the IMF’s recommendations for strengthening
crisis-fighting tools in the euro region, including increased
risk-sharing mechanisms, a single bank-resolution authority and
a single deposit-insurance fund.  ‘All Players’  Regarding  Greece , Rice said the country can overcome its
own crisis if “all players fulfill their responsibilities and
the right policies are implemented.”  The IMF doesn’t plan to send a team to Greece until a
government is formed after the June 17 election, Rice said. Any
discussions about conditions attached to the current bailout,
which is financed by the IMF and euro nations, wouldn’t change
the objectives of the program, he said.  Lagarde told the IMF board of directors that she regrets
that her comments about Greek taxpayers in an interview to the
 Guardian newspaper  “were misunderstood and caused offense,”
which was “not her intention,” according to Rice.  In the interview, Lagarde said that children in  Africa 
needed more help than the Greeks and that many in the country
were “trying to escape tax all the time.”  She later said on her Facebook page that she was sensitive
to the plight facing Greece, while reiterating that the wealthy
must pay their fair share of taxes, generating more than 36,000
comments from across  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  