-- Sri Lanka May Inflation Rate Accelerates to a Nine-Month High
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2012-05-31T10:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/sri-lanka-may-inflation-rate-accelerates-to-a-nine-month-high.html
Sri Lankan inflation accelerated to a
nine-month high in May, fanned by currency weakness that makes
imports costlier.  Consumer prices  in the capital, Colombo, increased 7
percent from a year earlier after gaining 6.1 percent in April,
the Department of Census and Statistics said on its website
today. The median of seven estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 6.5 percent advance.  Sri Lanka  kept interest  rates  unchanged this month after
two increases in 2012 as part of an economic policy overhaul
that seeks to damp import demand, narrow the  trade gap  and
protect foreign reserves. The island has also raised fuel prices
to curb inward shipments of oil and moved to a more freely
floating  exchange rate  under which the rupee has declined.  “ Interest rates  are likely to rise further due to
continued credit expansion and to bring stability in the
currency,” Sanjeewa Fernando, an analyst at CT Smith
Stockbrokers Pvt. in Colombo, said before the release.  The island’s rupee has strengthened about 0.7 percent since
touching 133.10 per dollar on April 25, its lowest level. The
rupee was at 132.23 per dollar as of 3:28 p.m. local time. The
 Colombo All-Share Index (CSEALL)  of stocks closed down 0.7 percent.  The government raised cement, milk powder and liquefied gas
prices in early May. Inflation will remain in “single-digit”
levels this year even as “high and volatile” food and energy
costs add to uncertainty, the central bank said last month.  Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said May 8 average inflation
may accelerate to 7 percent in 2012. He has forecast 7.2 percent
economic growth this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  