-- Stevens Questions Court’s Commitment to Campaign Ruling
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/stevens-questions-court-s-commitment-to-campaign-ruling.html
Retired U.S. Supreme Court Justice
 John Paul Stevens  said his former colleagues may be having
“second thoughts” about the reach of the 2010 ruling that let
corporations spend unlimited sums on political campaigns.  Stevens, speaking at an event sponsored by the  University
of Arkansas  in Little Rock last night, said he questioned
whether the five-justice majority stood fully behind its
statement that the Constitution’s First Amendment “generally
prohibits the suppression of political speech based on the
speaker’s identity.”  Stevens dissented in the case, known as Citizens United v.
 Federal Election Commission , and retired later that year. He
made his comments as his former colleagues prepare to decide
whether they will use a Montana case to revisit some aspects of
 Citizens United  in the nine-month term that starts in October.  Stevens, 92, said he reached his conclusion about the
majority’s doubts after reflecting on later rulings by the high
court, including a one-line order this year that upheld a
federal ban on campaign spending by foreigners.  Those developments “provide a basis to expect that the
court already has had second thoughts about the breadth of the
reasoning” in the majority opinion, Stevens said, according to
prepared remarks released by the court.  Stevens also pointed to Justice  Samuel Alito ’s reaction at
the 2010  State of the Union  Address, when he mouthed “not
true” as President  Barack Obama  criticized the just-issued
Citizens United decision. Stevens said Alito, a member of the
Citizens United majority, was probably reacting to Obama’s
assertion that the ruling would let foreign corporations
influence U.S. campaigns.  ‘Alito’s Reaction’  “Justice Alito’s reaction does persuade me that in due
course it will be necessary for the court to issue an opinion
explicitly crafting an exception that will create a crack in the
foundation of the Citizens United majority opinion,” Stevens
said.  The majority, the former justice said, will have to
“explain its abandonment of, or at least qualify its reliance
upon, the proposition that the identity of the speaker is an
impermissible basis for regulating campaign speech.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  