-- Stockton Bankruptcy Is ‘Inevitable,’ Union Lawyer Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s ,   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-05-31T21:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/stockton-council-plans-vote-on-bankruptcy-authorization.html
Negotiations between Stockton,
California, and its creditors won’t yield enough savings to keep
it from becoming the largest city to seek  bankruptcy protection ,
a lawyer for an employee union said.  While Stockton has negotiated in good faith with its
creditors, including unions, there’s little chance of a deal
that would save the agricultural city of 290,000 enough money to
avoid insolvency, Joseph Rose, attorney for the 385-member
Stockton City Employees Association, said today by telephone.  Stockton’s city manager may be granted authority to seek
bankruptcy protection in a City Council vote scheduled for June
5, moving one step closer to a fate officials have sought to
avoid.  “I don’t see this as a bargaining tactic by the city,”
Rose said. “I do see bankruptcy as an inevitable fact of life
in this process. It doesn’t have to do with tactical
considerations by the city or anyone else.”  The farming center about 80 miles (130 kilometers) east of
 San Francisco  has been holding confidential talks with creditors
to escape becoming the largest city to enter court protection in
U.S. history.  Communities and states across the U.S. face soaring costs
for pensions and retiree health benefits even as sales and
property-tax revenue was depressed by the longest recession
since the 1930s. The problems have been compounded in Stockton
by accounting errors that left the community of about 292,000
residents almost insolvent.  ‘Remain Hopeful’  “We remain hopeful that we can reach an agreement with a
sufficient number of our creditors to get our fiscal house in
order,” Mayor Ann Johnston said yesterday in announcing plans
for the vote. “Without significant fiscal relief, the general
fund will be out of money by June 30.”  The talks with creditors, aimed at reaching an agreement
under state-required mediation, have been extended until June
25.  California  mandates the adoption of municipal budgets by
July 1. Stockton faces a $26 million deficit in the coming
fiscal year.  The City Council met May 15 to consider options for
balancing the spending plan that included a Chapter 9 bankruptcy
filing, massive cuts to city departments or concessions that
might emerge in talks with a mediator.  ‘Tighten the Belt’  “The city needs to tighten the belt and start crawling our
way out of this hole,” City Manager Bob Deis said at the
meeting. Bankruptcy is an option only if the talks fail, he said
at the time.  Deis’s bankruptcy proposal marked the first time since
February that city officials offered the idea of pursuing court
protection after previously saying they wanted to avoid it.  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
largest U.S. public pension, and San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC) , the nation’s largest home lender, are among 18 creditors
that are negotiating with the city. The negotiation period began
March 27 when the participants chose a mediator to guide the
talks.  Stockton’s financial practices and reporting are the
subject of a state investigation with the goal of better
understanding the city’s fiscal situation, California Controller
John Chiang said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  