-- Russian Magnates Set to Battle Over State Port Sales: Freight
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2012-06-01T12:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/summa-challenging-suez-shipping-by-adding-russia-assets-freight.html
Summa Group, owner of Russian ports
and a Rotterdam oil terminal, is spending $1.4 billion to buy a
stake in Fesco Group, a Pacific port and ship operator, to form
a Eurasian freight network and challenge Suez Canal shipping.  Russia ’s rail  transit  may surge as electronic  customs
clearance  is introduced and dispatching improved, Summa says.
Asia- Europe  seaborne traffic reached 13.5 million containers in
2011, a $12.2 billion market, Drewry Maritime Research says.
Russia carried 101,500 containers between Europe and  Asia  last
year, according to Moscow-based Infranews, a research institute.  “Serious freight flows are possible in a market that is
not very developed currently,” Mikhail Ganelin, an analyst at
Troika Dialog in Moscow, said by telephone. Troika rates Fesco a
buy. “Summa wants to create a dominant transportation holding
on the foundation of ports and rail operators that can ship
cargo between Europe and Asia.”  Moscow-based Summa, controlled by Chairman Ziyavudin Magomedov, agreed to buy 56 percent of Fesco from majority owner
Sergey Generalov, two people with knowledge of the matter said
May 18. Fesco shares have climbed 8.2 percent since then.  Summa bought 10 percent of Fesco from the shipper’s
treasury shares last week, kicking off the potential $1.4
billion deal, and may purchase another 3 percent soon, the
people said last week, declining to be identified before the
transaction was completed.  To meet its goal of creating a coast-to-coast network
stretching more than 4,000 miles, Summa may have to outbid
billionaire  Vladimir Lisin ’s UCL Holdings. They are vying for
OAO Transcontainer, now 21 percent owned by Fesco. The
acquisition also faces resistance from the container operator’s
majority owner, state-run OAO Russian Railways.  Expansion Plan  “The deal fits into Summa’s aggressive expansion in
Russia’s transport space and its long-term strategy,” Ganelin
said. Summa and Vladivostok-based Fesco declined to comment on
the acquisition. The Fesco deal will give Summa one-fifth of
Transcontainer, which handles more than half of Russia’s
container traffic.  Shares of Moscow-based Transcontainer have risen 18 percent
since the May 17 close, increasing its value to $1.3 billion.
Fesco’s market value has reached about $850 million. The
European Bank for Reconstruction & Development holds 3.8 percent
of Fesco.  Medvedev Ties  Summa may be aided by what Elena Sakhnova, an analyst at
VTB Capital, characterized as close ties to Prime Minister
 Dmitry Medvedev . Chairman Magomedov and Deputy Prime Minister
 Arkady Dvorkovich , a former Medvedev aide who is in charge of
transportation and energy, graduated from the same department at
Moscow State University in 1994.  “Summa has a strong team that is able to realize good
projects,” Sakhnova said. “It’s possible they’ve received a
certain amount of support from the country’s leadership.”  Still, European importers will continue to rely on ships in
part because rail gauge differences and border crossings mean
cargo has to be transferred to as many as two different chassis,
according to Drewry analysts led by Neil Dekker.  Russia ranked between Guinea-Bissau and Lebanon in a World
Bank survey of transportation and logistics capacity in May,
coming in 95th of 155 countries.  “With the probability of delays on rail, the
attractiveness of such a route decreases,” Dekker said in e-
mailed comments. “Container shipping offers far superior
capacity and economies of scale, very competitive rates and its
reliability is constantly improving.”  Buying Back?  In addition, Lisin’s UCL Holding, Russia’s biggest non-
state rail operator, and N-Trans Group, which includes London-
listed  Globaltrans Investment Plc (GLTR) , have shown interest in
Transcontainer.  In addition, UCL Holding is also prepared to pay Russian
Railways 45 billion rubles for the 25 percent of cargo carrier
Freight One that it doesn’t already own, Freight One CEO Oleg Bukin said yesterday in Sochi, Russia.  Russian Railways President  Vladimir Yakunin  said his
company is considering buying back Fesco’s stake in
Transcontainer to counter Summa’s expansion, Russian news agency
RIA Novosti reported May 21. That would run counter to the
state’s plan to sell off assets.  Should the deal go through as planned, Summa will come away
with control over domestic container traffic from the Pacific
port of Vladivostok, which Fesco owns. Revenue from it and from
operating the terminal probably will benefit Summa even without
a surge in transit volumes, Drewry says.  ‘This Vast Country’  The main rail line “is far more competitive for Russian
cargo, moving from the  Far East  to central and western regions
of this vast country,” Dekker said. “We see these volumes
growing and utilization of the Trans-Siberian increasing
steadily.”  The domestic market amounted to 2.8 million containers in
2011, according to Russian Railways, the rail monopoly.  Summa’s ambitions stretch beyond containers and Russia. It
is investing in a $1 billion project to build an  oil terminal  in
Rotterdam and is considering the construction of a container
port near Beijing, Russian business daily Vedomosti reported in
March, citing Rotterdam Port Chief Executive Officer Hans Smits.  Within Russia, Summa and state-owned trader United Grain
Co. have started construction of a transshipment terminal in
Russia’s Far East. The group may bid for Moscow’s Domodedovo
airport, according to Vedomosti, and the state’s 20 percent
stake in the Novorossiysk port, Summa President Alexander Vinokurov said by e-mail on April 16. Summa was recommended as
the winning bidder for almost half of United Grain this week,
pending state approval.  Summa, together with Russia’s oil pipeline monopoly OAO
Transneft, owns a controlling stake in the Novorossiysk port on
the Black Sea and Primorsk on the Baltic.  Ownership of Fesco and thus its 21 percent stake in
Transcontainer may give Summa the advantage in the planned sale
of another 25 percent to 50 percent of Transcontainer, said
Andrey Rozhkov, an analyst at IFC Metropol in Moscow.  “By buying a stake in Fesco, Summa has neutralized any
strong competition for Transcontainer that could have bid up the
price during an auction,” Rozhkov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  