-- SunTrust Settles U.S. Discrimination Suit for $21 Million
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-05-31T20:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/suntrust-settles-u-s-discrimination-suit-for-21-million.html
SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) ’s mortgage unit
agreed to pay $21 million to resolve U.S. allegations it charged
black and Hispanic borrowers discriminatory rates for home
loans.  The agreement with the U.S.  Justice Department  bars
SunTrust from discriminating on the basis of race in setting
terms for loans, and requires the bank to monitor its
compliance, according to a lawsuit and settlement filed today in
federal court in Richmond, Virginia. The bank will also
establish a system for resolving customer complaints about
discrimination.  More than 20,000 African-Americans and Hispanic borrowers
paid higher fees, costs or  interest rates  for home mortgages
than non-Hispanic, white borrowers, according to the settlement.
The overcharging was based only on race and unrelated to the
borrowers’ creditworthiness, according to the U.S. complaint.  Minority borrowers “paid what amounted to a racial surtax
that ranged from hundreds of dollars to thousands of dollars,”
said  Thomas Perez , the head of the Justice Department’s Civil
Rights Division. “African-American and Latino borrowers had no
idea that they could have gotten a better deal.”  Bank Scrutiny  The Obama administration has boosted scrutiny of banks to
discourage loan discrimination after the housing bust led to
record defaults. In December, Bank of America Corp. paid a
record $335 million to compensate Countrywide Financial Corp.
borrowers who were charged more for home loans based on race and
national origin.  SunTrust, based in Atlanta, denied the U.S. allegations in
the complaint and said its lending practices complied with fair
lending laws, according to the settlement. The bank said it
accepted the settlement to avoid the costs and risks of
litigation.  “SunTrust strongly believes in the principles of fair
lending,”  Michael McCoy , a SunTrust spokesman, said in an e-
mail. “We are pleased to have reached a settlement and put this
matter behind us.”  The overcharging of minority borrowers took place from 2005
to 2009 in markets that included Washington, Atlanta, Miami, Los
Angeles, Orlando, Florida, and  San Francisco , according to the
U.S. complaint.  The Justice Department also has been investigating  Wells
Fargo & Co ., the largest U.S. mortgage lender, and has
“sufficient basis” to file a lending discrimination complaint
against the San Francisco-based bank, Assistant Attorney General
Perez said today on a conference call with reporters. Wells
Fargo had previously disclosed a U.S. probe into the matter.
Perez said the department and the bank “continue to have
regular conversations” regarding the investigation.  The case is U.S. v. SunTrust Mortgage Inc., 3:12-cv-397,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington 
at   sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 