-- Swiss Economic Growth Unexpectedly Strengthens on Consume
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-05-31T08:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/swiss-economic-growth-unexpectedly-accelerated-in-first-quarter.html
Swiss economic growth unexpectedly
accelerated in the first quarter to the fastest pace in 1 1/2
years, led by consumer demand.  Gross domestic product  climbed 0.7 percent from the fourth
quarter, when it increased a revised 0.5 percent, the State
Secretariat for Economic Affairs in Bern said today. That’s the
strongest growth since the third quarter of 2010. Economists had
forecast the economy would stall, the median of 18 estimates in
a  Bloomberg News survey  showed.  The economy may struggle to gather strength after the euro
region’s fiscal crisis pushed countries from  Italy  to  Spain  into
recessions, eroding export demand across the 17-member bloc.
 Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  Vice President Jean-Pierre Danthine said
today that while the franc ceiling introduced by the central
bank in September has decreased “recessionary risks,” policy
makers are ready to take further measures if needed.  “It’s certainly a positive surprise and mainly driven by
private consumption,” said  Reto Huenerwadel , an economist at
UBS AG in Zurich. “We don’t see a recession this year, the
SNB’s ceiling seems to have a stabilizing effect.”  The franc traded at 1.2011 versus the euro as of 10:21 a.m.
in Zurich, little changed from yesterday. It was at 96.80
centimes versus the dollar.  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending  rose 0.6 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three months, today’s report showed. Exports
of goods and services slipped 0.4 percent, while exports of
services advanced 2.6 percent.  Government spending  increased 2
percent from the fourth quarter and gross fixed  capital spending 
fell 1.5 percent, led by a slump in construction.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said on May 22 that  Switzerland ’s economic growth will “pick up
from the second half” of 2012. GDP may rise 0.9 percent this
year and 1.9 percent in 2013 as consumers step up spending and
exports rebound, the Paris-based group said.  SNB President Thomas Jordan said on May 27 that 2012 will
be a “difficult year,” adding that policy makers will maintain
their franc ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro “for the
foreseeable future” to help protect the economy and exporters.  ‘Considerable Risks’  “An appreciation of the Swiss franc would again expose the
Swiss economy to considerable risks and, once more, endanger
both  price stability ” and the economy, Danthine said at a
conference in Geneva today. “The SNB will continue to enforce
the minimum exchange rate with utmost determination and, should
the economic outlook and the threat of deflation require, is
prepared to take further measures at any time.”  The SNB, which imposed the ceiling on Sept. 6 after the
franc surged to a record against the euro, will hold its next
monetary assessment on June 14 in Bern.  Peter Rosenstreich, chief foreign-exchange strategist at
Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva, said a strengthening economy may
“fuel speculation on the sustainability” of the franc cap.  “Baring a significant upheaval in  Europe , growth will
continue to improve,” he wrote in an e-mailed note today.
“This obviously will put pressure on the euro-franc floor as
the franc fundamentals provide an attractive investment. We see
very little probability that the SNB would risk shifting the
minimum  exchange rate .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  