-- Synta Rises on Potential for Novel Cancer Drug: Boston Mover
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-05-31T20:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/synta-rises-on-potential-for-novel-cancer-therapy-boston-mover.html
Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp. (SNTA)  gained
the most in 20 months in anticipation of study results that may
help pave the way for broader use of its experimental lung
cancer compound ganetespib.  Synta  rose  16 percent to $4.81 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest increase since September 2010. Interim results of
the study should be released by Lexington, Massachusetts-based
Synta in June, Thomas Wei, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New
York, said yesterday in a note to clients.  The trial results may show that the drug has the potential
to help a much larger group of lung-cancer patients than
expected, Wei said. While the focus has been on people with
mutations in the ALK gene, patients with mutations in the KRAS
gene and those with high levels of lactate dehydrogenase may
also benefit, he said.  “These two subgroups likely address a larger market
opportunity than we have previously modeled in  lung cancer ,”
Wei said. “We believe the details from the Phase 2b lung cancer
trial expected next month could lead to significant valuation
upside, and we would be buyers ahead of that data release.”  Patients with mutated KRAS genes make up 15 percent to 30
percent of lung cancer cases, and those with high lactate
dehydrogenase, a marker of oxygen levels, are found in 20
percent to 30 percent of cases, Wei said. Synta executives say
the drug’s ultimate value may stem from its action in those two
groups, rather than in the smaller number of patients with ALK
mutations, he wrote.  Synta shares have fallen 16 percent in the past 12 months.  An estimated 222,520 people in the U.S. were diagnosed with
lung cancer in 2010, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  The drug inhibits a protein, known as heat shock protein
90, that helps activate many cancer-promoting compounds in the
body and supports the growth and survival of tumor cells. Synta
is studying the drug for several types of cancer in patients who
have failed prior therapy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  