-- U.K. Pound Falls Against Euro on Economic Outlook Concern
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-05-31T16:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/u-k-pound-falls-against-euro-on-economic-outlook-concern.html
The pound weakened against the
dollar, touching its lowest level in more than four months, and
gilts rose amid speculation the fallout from  Europe ’s debt
crisis is spreading and will harm the U.K.’s economic outlook.  Britain’s currency slid for a fourth day against the yen
after Nick Moon, GfK NOP Ltd. Social Research managing director,
said “consumer confidence remains mired” even as the company’s
sentiment gauge rose. Sterling slid snapped a two-day gain
against the euro on bets its advance was overdone.  House prices 
climbed in May for the first time in three months, another
report showed. The 10-year gilt yield fell to an all-time low.  “The down movement in the pound is to do with risk-
aversion tied to the euro region,” said  Peter Frank , a London-
based currency strategist at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA) 
“People are buying dollar and yen because of the turmoil in
Europe and the pound is getting dragged down. Gilt yields are
dropping sharply because they are a haven.”  Sterling was 0.5 percent weaker at $1.5408 at 5:07 p.m.
 London  time, after falling to $1.5361, the least since Jan 18.
The pound was 1.4 percent lower at 120.66 yen, after declining 2
percent in the previous three days.  The U.K. currency weakened 0.4 percent to 80.24 pence per
euro. It has gained 1.6 percent this month against the 17-nation
currency, even as it reaching 79.51 pence on May 16, the
strongest since November 2008.  North-South Divide  Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and central bank chief
Ignazio Visco today pressed  Germany  to back more aggressive
efforts to contain the region’s debt crisis, setting up a north-
south rivalry over how to stabilize the euro-area economy.  Concern that policy makers will struggle to shield the U.K.
economy from the fallout from Europe’s debt crisis weighed on
the pound, trimming a year-to-date gain of more than 4 percent
versus the euro. Britain slid into its first double-dip
recession since the 1970s in the first quarter amid the euro
area’s turmoil and Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s commitment to
the biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II.  “People are taking the opportunity to buy some euros after
the pound’s recent strength,” said Lee McDarby, head of dealing
on the corporate and institutional treasury desk at Investec
Bank Plc in London. “U.K.  consumer confidence  was still a poor
figure, even though it rose, and the house-price data wasn’t
fantastic.”  Gilts Rise  Ten-year gilts rose, driving the yield eight basis points
lower to 1.57 percent after touching 1.563 percent. The 4
percent security due March 2022 rose 0.775, or 7.75 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 121.915. The two-year rate dropped
three basis points to 0.23 percent.  An index of U.K. consumer sentiment gained 2 points from
April to minus 29, GfK said today. The gauge is down from minus
21 a year earlier. A measure of the climate for shoppers making
major purchases dropped 2 points to a seven-month low of minus
32, the data showed.  “Even though optimism about how the economy will perform”
has improved, “it is still significantly down on where it was
this time last year,” Moon said.  Home prices  gained 0.3 percent from April, when they fell
by the same amount, the  Nationwide Building Society  said today.  Gilts have returned 3.7 percent this month through
yesterday, compared with 2.9 percent in May for German bonds and
1.6 percent for  U.S. Treasuries , according to indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 