-- U.K. Economy Will Barely Grow This Year on Euro Crisis, BCC Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-31T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/u-k-economy-will-barely-grow-this-year-on-euro-crisis-bcc-says.html
The U.K.  economy  will almost stagnate
this year and the government needs to support the recovery with
fiscal-stimulus measures, the British Chambers of Commerce said.  Gross domestic product  will probably rise 0.1 percent this
year as the renewed turmoil from the euro-area debt crisis
crimps demand, the London-based group said in an e-mailed
statement today. It previously forecast growth of 0.6 percent.
It sees GDP rising 1.9 percent in 2013.  Britain has slipped back into a recession and a report
today may show factory output contracted in May for the first
time this year, according to economists’ forecasts. While the
BCC’s call for more  government spending  adds to similar comments
from the  International Monetary Fund  last week, Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  has said that the fiscal
consolidation is necessary to keep the U.K.’s top credit rating.  Osborne has “considerable credibility in the financial
markets, and he is now in the position to increase spending on
growth-enhancing policies without endangering Britain’s AAA
rating,” BCC Chief Economist  David Kern  said in the statement.
“This is necessary, because persistent stagnation threatens to
damage the economy’s long-term productive potential.”  With the economy facing headwinds from the government’s
budget squeeze, the euro-area turmoil and weak  consumer
confidence , the IMF said on May 22 that the U.K. needs more
monetary easing and fiscal stimulus to stoke growth.  Manufacturing Slump  An index of U.K. manufacturing output by  Markit Economics 
and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply probably
dropped to 49.7 last month from 50.5 in April, according to the
median estimate of  30 economists  in a Bloomberg News survey. A
reading below 50 indicates contraction. The report is due to be
released at 9:30 a.m. in London.  As well as encouraging the government to set up a so-called
business bank that would increase lending to companies, the BCC
said Prime Minister  David Cameron  should increase infrastructure
investment and ease the burden of regulation on businesses.  While the lobby group expects the Bank of England to keep
its  bond-purchase plan  at 325 billion pounds ($502 billion)
unless the  European debt crisis  worsens, it said buying private
assets instead of gilts would make the current program more
effective. It sees the  key interest rate  rising to 0.75 percent
from the current 0.5 percent by the end of 2013.  The economy, which shrank 0.3 percent in the first quarter,
may contract again in the current three-month period before
strengthening after that, the BCC said. “Although there will be
minimal growth this year, economic prospects will gradually
improve,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  