-- U.K. House Prices Rose on Supply Shortage, Nationwide Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-31T08:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/u-k-home-prices-rose-in-may-on-supply-shortage-nationwide-says.html
U.K.  house prices  rose in May for the
first time in three months as a lack of homes for sale supported
values,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  Prices gained 0.3 percent from April, when they fell by the
same amount, the Swindon, England-based lender said in an e-
mailed report today. A separate release from GfK NOP Ltd. showed
 consumer confidence  rose in May for the first time in four
months as Britons became more optimistic about the economy.  “Demand for homes remains subdued on the back of weak
labor-market conditions, but the lack of homes coming onto the
market is providing support for prices,” Nationwide Chief
Economist Robert Gardner said in the report. “This is in part a
reflection of the low rate of building in recent years, which
has failed to keep pace with household formation.”  While  Bank of England  data yesterday showed the number of
U.K. mortgage approvals climbed in April, they remained about
half the monthly average in the decade to 2007 before the
financial crisis struck. The housing market may remain under
pressure as rising unemployment and concerns about the euro-area
debt crisis undermine  consumer confidence , property research
company Hometrack Ltd. said this week.  Nationwide said from a year ago, house values fell 0.7
percent to an average 166,022 pounds ($257,600).  The pound was little changed against the dollar and traded
at $1.5479 as of 8:59 a.m. in  London . The yield on the benchmark
10-year U.K. government bond rose 2 basis points to 1.66
percent.  ‘In Check’  Lenders approved 51,823 loans to buy homes in April,
compared with 51,067 the previous month, according to the Bank
of England. Hometrack said that while  house prices  rose 0.2
percent in May, economic concerns will probably keep demand and
values “in check” this year.  GfK’s index of consumer sentiment gained 2 points from
April to minus 29, the London-based research group said in the
e-mailed report. The gauge is down from minus 21 a year ago. A
measure of Britons’ outlook for the economy over the next 12
months rose 7 points to minus 26.  “While this rise is indeed positive,  consumer confidence 
remains mired in the very negative position it has been in for
almost 18 months,” Nick Moon, GfK Social Research managing
director, said in the report. “Even though optimism about how
the economy will perform” has improved, “it is still
significantly down on where it was this time last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  