-- U.K. Exempts Charity Giving From Tax Cap in Budget U-Turn
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2012-05-31T14:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/u-k-exempts-charity-giving-from-tax-cap-in-budget-u-turn-1-.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  bowed to political pressure and scrapped
proposals to include charitable donations in a cap on tax
relief, his third U-turn over a budget measure this week.  The cap, limiting tax relief to 50,000 pounds ($77,000) or
25 percent of income, had sparked protests from charities that
warned they could lose a significant part of their income.  The climbdown came three days after Osborne reversed a
plan to levy value-added tax on hot takeaway snacks such as
Cornish pasties and charge the full 20 percent rate on mobile
homes. The reversals are a setback for Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative-led government, which is losing support
as austerity measures intended to balance the budget hit voters.  Announcing the decision today, Osborne said that any kind
of cap could have “potentially damaged” charitable giving.
“We’re going to focus all our efforts on keeping Britain safe
in the gathering storm” in the euro region, he told
broadcasters. The cap on reliefs is due to begin in 2013.  Since the budget on March 21, the government has been in
talks with charities and donors to discuss the proposal. More
than 1,000 philanthropic groups backed a Charities Aid
Foundation call for the government to rethink.  “We are delighted that the government has responded to the
challenging calls from philanthropists and charities across the
country and taken the bold decision,” CAF Chief Executive
Officer John Low said in an e-mailed statement. “We realize
government is responding to truly exceptional financial
circumstances and is having to make tough decisions about public
finances.”  ‘Ashamed’  The cap was also opposed by academic institutions,
including the University of Oxford, which raised more than 1.25
billion pounds in its most recent fundraising drive.
Conservative lawmaker Zac Goldsmith said he was “ashamed” at
the plan.  The restriction was introduced to stop wealthy individuals
using unlimited reliefs to pay lower tax rates than ordinary
workers. The decision to exempt charitable giving may cost the
Treasury about 10 million pounds.  In other policy shifts this month, Justice Secretary Ken Clarke watered down proposals to have court evidence from
security agencies heard in secret and the  Defense Ministry 
ditched its plan to equip its aircraft carriers with a catapult
and arrester-wire system, opting for a cheaper solution using
jump jets.  Two weeks ago, Osborne pledged 30 million pounds to the
Church of  England  in compensation for adding VAT to the cost of
alterations to listing buildings.  ‘Shambles’  Ed Balls , finance spokesman for the opposition  Labour
Party , condemned the budget as an “embarrassing shambles” and
urged Osborne and Cameron to review their plan to cut the top
rate of income tax.  “With Britain pushed into a double-dip recession by the
government’s mistakes, we urgently need a change of course on
economic policy,” Balls said in a statement. “David Cameron
and George Osborne are not just out of touch -- their judgment
is now increasingly in question.”  Labour expressed anger at the timing of the recent
announcements, during a week when Parliament is not sitting.
Today’s move also came as Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt , who is
facing pressure over his relationship with  News Corp . at the
time he was adjudicating on its bid for British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc, testified to a U.K. media-ethics inquiry. Television
news channels broke off their live broadcasts of the hearing to
cover the charity tax announcement.  Andrew Tyrie , the Conservative lawmaker who heads
Parliament’s Treasury Committee, said the policy U-turns meant
Osborne may find it harder to hold to future budget pledges.  “Whatever the measures, it will be more difficult next
year, with vested interest groups now encouraged to press for
concessions,” he said in a statement. “The chancellor will
need to set out the principles underpinning his budget and make
clear he will stick to them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  