-- U.S. Races to Prevent Doha-Like End to Trans-Pacific Trade Talks
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2012-05-31T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/u-s-races-to-prevent-doha-like-end-to-trans-pacific-trade-talks.html
On paper, big, ambitious free-trade
deals are the best kind. The more countries that agree to open
their markets, the greater the benefits to consumers. But
there’s a catch: If big trade deals try to include too many
countries or take on too many issues, the negotiations can
collapse under the weight of thousands of pages of details.  Just look at what happened to the Doha Development Agenda
of the  World Trade Organization . That attempt to lower trade
barriers worldwide began in the Persian Gulf nation of Qatar in
2001 -- and sputtered to an inglorious halt in 2011 after India,
Brazil and South Africa deadlocked over the fine print with the
U.S. and western Europe.  The U.S. and eight other nations now negotiating a new
free-trade agreement hope to avoid a similar fate, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its June 4 issue. The Trans-Pacific
Partnership is the most ambitious free-trade deal ever -- and
thus is at high risk of getting Doha’ed.  The goal is to make the partnership a model for 21st
century trade by taking on sensitive issues such as control of
data, intellectual-property protection, supply chains, and
environmental and labor standards.  With  Europe  in crisis, trade in the Asia-Pacific region is
increasingly important. The U.S. Trade Representative’s office
says the other countries in the talks --  Australia , Brunei
Darussalam,  Chile ,  Malaysia , New Zealand,  Peru ,  Singapore  and
 Vietnam  -- are collectively the U.S.’s third-largest export
market for goods, and the fourth-largest for services.  No ‘Cookie-Cutter’  Maintaining the momentum of the talks is critical. At the
same time, negotiators don’t want to water down the agreement to
speed its passage, a real danger with so many seats at the
table. “We expect this will be a path-breaking accord, not a
cookie-cutter agreement,” says Calman Cohen, president of the
Emergency Committee for American Trade, a pro-open markets group
in  Washington .  To prevent getting bogged down, the U.S. and its
negotiating partners have put off  Canada , Mexico and Japan --
all eager to join, but whose participation could complicate the
haggling. “We’re kind of sprinting toward a conclusion,” says
Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Demetrios Marantis.  Perhaps not sprinting. After a meeting last November in
Honolulu, President  Barack Obama  announced “the broad outlines
of an agreement” and said the heads of state hoped to see a
treaty by the end of 2012. That’s unlikely. While progress has
been steady, Marantis says, “No one wants to put a hard end
date. You want to have the substance drive the timing.”  Subsidies, Regulations  If they do pull it off, the Trans-Pacific Partnership will
clear out barriers such as subsidies and other privileges some
nations grant to state-owned enterprises.  Another important point under negotiation is for nations to
honor each other’s regulations. Currently, foreign goods
entering the U.S. must meet American safety and health standards
to the letter. U.S. goods must meet other countries’ rules, even
if the differences between the competing sets of paperwork are
minor and don’t threaten health or safety. Under the treaty,
small discrepancies wouldn’t slow the flow of products.  The treaty also seeks to eliminate the hassle of getting
goods and packages through customs, which differ from country to
country and are a major stumbling block to trade. No surprise
that  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  is paying particularly close attention to this
part of the talks. In the U.S., customs officers work around the
clock inside FedEx’s hub in  Memphis  -- a service for which the
company pays a premium. Other countries could provide a fast
lane through customs as well if the treaty’s signers agree. In a
statement, FedEx said it “strongly supports” the negotiations.  U.S. Tariffs  The U.S. must give to receive, though. One big obstacle to
concluding a deal is American tariffs on textiles, clothing and
footwear -- predominantly low-tech, low-wage industries that
have strong support in Congress. Vietnam and Malaysia won’t go
along with U.S. demands that they open their markets to U.S.
tech products until the U.S. gives more access to their shirts
and shoes. Another significant sticking point: the U.S.’s
insistence on strong protections for copyrights and patents,
which are being pushed heavily by Hollywood and pharmaceutical
companies.  Negotiations started in 2002 with just three nations, each
with a deep commitment to free trade -- Chile,  New Zealand  and
Singapore. Brunei, on the island of Borneo, joined in 2005.
Australia, Peru, the U.S. and Vietnam came on in 2008, and
Malaysia did in 2010. Trade negotiations often expand like this.
Countries don’t want to be left out, fearing they’ll lose
business. But they also don’t want to lower barriers that
protect the products they make, so talks stall.  Japan’s Effort  Inviting more nations would mean more demands, and more
time to satisfy them. Japan is working hard to gain admission,
even though it protects its farmers more aggressively than the
partnership will permit. New Zealand opposes letting in Canada,
which has been reluctant to dismantle protections for producers
of eggs, poultry and milk.  Mexico , which has shown a willingness
to deal, could get in sooner, says Murray Hiebert of the
Southeast Asia Program at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington.  One country notably absent:  China . The world’s second-
biggest economy is far from qualifying because of its favoritism
toward domestic producers. Instead, Beijing is at work on a less
ambitious three-way pact with Japan and South Korea.  In trying to rush a deal, the U.S. Trade Representative’s
office has angered some lawmakers, who say the negotiations have
been unnecessarily secretive. Though Marantis insists “we have
provided an unprecedented level of transparency,” Democratic
Senator  Ron Wyden  of  Oregon  says, “The USTR’s practice of over-
classifying trade documents … leaves all but a handful of
members of Congress in the dark about what TPP may hold and
raises questions about the legitimacy of these negotiations.”  With the goal of wrapping up just seven months away, the
next round of talks in San Diego in July will be especially
important. “Whether we can get it done this year is
increasingly doubtful,” Hiebert says. “If it’s a short delay,
it’s not a problem. But if it drags on and on, it can get into a
Doha situation.”  To a treaty negotiator, more frightening words were never
spoken.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Coy  in  New York  at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  