-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for May 25 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-05-31T15:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-may-25-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged just under 15.2 million
barrels per day during the week ending May 25, 182 thousand
barrels per day above the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 89.1 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production increased last week, averaging about 9.2
million barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased
last week, averaging 4.6 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 9.1 million barrels per
day last week, up by 473 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged about 8.9 million barrels per day, 199 thousand barrels
per day below the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 796 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 71 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 2.2 million barrels
from the previous week. At 384.7 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
0.8 million barrels last week and are below the lower limit of
the average range. Finished gasoline inventories decreased while
blending components inventories remained unchanged last week.
Distillate fuel inventories decreased by 1.7 million barrels
last week and are in the lower limit of the average range for
this time of year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by
1.6 million barrels last week and are above the upper limit of
the average range. Total commercial petroleum inventories
increased by 5.5 million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged about 18.7 million barrels per day, down by 0.1 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged just under
8.9 million barrels per day, down by 2.6 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
about 3.8 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, down
by 1.0 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 0.7 percent lower over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  