-- U.S. First-Quarter Second GDP Technical Note (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-05-31T14:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/u-s-first-quarter-second-gdp-technical-note-text-.html
Following is the technical note from
the text of the Gross Domestic Product, released Thursday by the
Commerce Department.  This technical note provides background information about
the source data and estimating methods used to produce the
estimates presented in the GDP news release.  The complete set
of estimates for the first quarter is available on BEA’s Web
site at www.bea.gov; a brief summary of “highlights” is also
posted on the Web site.  In a few weeks, the estimates will be
published in BEA’s monthly journal, the Survey of Current
Business, along with a more detailed analysis of the estimates
(“GDP and the Economy”).  Sources of Revision to Real GDP  Real GDP increased 1.9 percent (annual rate) in the first
quarter, a downward revision of 0.3 percentage point from the
advance estimate.  The downward revision to real GDP reflected a
downward revision to private inventory investment, an upward
revision to imports, and downward revisions to state and local
government spending and to  consumer spending  that were partly
offset by upward revisions to nonresidential fixed investment
and to exports.  The downward revision to inventory investment reflected
downward revisions to manufacturing, wholesale trade, and retail
trade inventories and was based on newly available Census Bureau
inventory data for March and revised data for January and
February.  The upward revisions to both imports and exports reflected
newly available Census goods data for March and revised data for
February.  The downward revision to state and local government
spending was based on newly available Census construction
spending data for March and revised data for January and
February.  The downward revision to consumer spending reflected
downward revisions to both goods and services.  Within goods, the largest downward revision was to motor
vehicles and parts, which was based on newly available motor
vehicle registration data for March.  Other revisions to goods
were based on benchmarked Census retail sales data, which were
incorporated on a best-change basis.  Within services, the largest downward revisions were to
electricity services, based on newly available Energy
Information Administration usage and unit value data for
February, and to communication services, based on newly
available first-quarter revenue data from various cellular
telephone service providers.  The upward revision to nonresidential fixed investment
reflected upward revisions to both structures and equipment and
software.  The revision to structures reflected newly available Census
construction data for March and revised data for January and
February and revised Department of Energy data on footage
drilled.  The revision to equipment and software was primarily to
information processing equipment and was based on benchmarked M3
manufacturing shipments data from the Census Bureau, which were
incorporated on a best-change basis, and on newly available and
revised Census imports and exports data.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases increased 2.4
percent in the first quarter, the same increase as in the
advance estimate.  Gross Domestic Income and Corporate Profits  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the output
of the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes earned in
the production of GDP, increased 2.7 percent in the first
quarter.  For a given quarter, the estimates of GDP and GDI may
differ for a variety of reasons, including the incorporation of
largely independent source data.  However, over longer time
spans, the estimates of GDP and GDI tend to follow similar
patterns of change.  Profits from current production before taxes increased
$11.4 billion, or 0.6 percent (quarterly rate), in the first
quarter.  Domestic profits of financial corporations increased
$20.6 billion, domestic profits of nonfinancial corporations
increased $6.3 billion, and rest-of-the-world profits decreased
$15.5 billion.  Profits from current production after taxes
decreased $64.4 billion, as taxes on corporate income increased
$75.8 billion.  About $50 billion of the increase in corporate
taxes reflected the expiration of “bonus depreciation” claimed
under the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and
Job Creation Act of 2010  Revisions to Wages and Salaries, Disposable Personal Income, and
GDI  In addition to presenting revised estimates for the first
quarter, today’s release also presents revised estimates of
fourth-quarter wages and salaries, personal taxes, and
contributions for government social insurance.  Wage and salary
disbursements are now estimated to have increased $28.9 billion
in the fourth quarter of 2011, a downward revision of $60.2
billion.  These estimates reflect newly available wage and
salary tabulations for the fourth quarter from the BLS quarterly
census of employment and wages (QCEW).  These data are more
comprehensive than the monthly employment and earnings data that
were used for the earlier estimates--the QCEW data include
irregular pay, such as bonuses and gains from the exercise of
 stock options .  Real disposable personal income is now estimated to have
increased 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter. (By comparison, the
estimates that were available last month showed an increase of
1.7 percent in the fourth quarter. The 0.4 percent increase in
real DPI in the first quarter is the same as in last month’s
estimates.)  The revision to fourth-quarter wages and salaries also
results in a revision to GDI.  Real GDI is now estimated to have
increased 2.6 percent in the fourth quarter, a downward revision
of 1.8 percentage points.  Annual Revision Scheduled for July 27  The GDP news release on July 27 will present the regular
annual revision of the national income and product accounts. In
addition to presenting the advance estimate of GDP for the
second quarter of 2012, most estimates, including GDP, national
income, personal income, and their components, will be revised
from the first quarter of 2009 through the first quarter of
2012.  The revised estimates will incorporate source data that
are more complete and more detailed than those previously
available, including:  Census Bureau annual surveys of manufactures, of wholesale
trade, of retail trade, of services, and of state and local
governments; revised BEA international transactions accounts
data; federal government budget data; and Internal Revenue
Service tabulations of tax returns for corporations and for sole
proprietorships and partnerships.  The annual revision will also incorporate refinements to
estimating methodologies, including the following:  Data from the Census Bureau’s expanded service annual
survey (SAS) and quarterly services survey (QSS) will be
incorporated into the annual and quarterly estimates of several
components of household utilities, of transportation services,
and of education services.  The percentage of quarterly PCE
services that will be based on the QSS will increase to 42
percent.  Additional information about the annual revision, including
draft versions of the revised NIPA table formats, will be posted
on BEA’s Web site over the next few weeks.  This table shows the actual data used for the second
estimate of GDP for the first quarter of 2012.  For these key
series, actual data for March were not available in time for
inclusion in the advance GDP estimate released on April 27,
2012, and BEA made assumptions for these source data.  The
numbers in brackets show the March values that had been assumed
for the advance estimate.  For most series, the data
incorporated for February and, in some cases, for January were
preliminary, and the numbers shown in brackets are the values
used last month.  All series shown in the table are in billions of dollars,
seasonally adjusted at annual rates, and are published by the
Bureau of the Census.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  