-- U.S. First Quarter Second Gross Domestic Product (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-05-31T14:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/u-s-first-quarter-second-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the Gross
Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and
services produced by labor and property located in the  United
States  -- increased at an annual rate of 1.9 percent in the
first quarter of 2012 (that is, from the fourth quarter to the
first quarter), according to the “second” estimate released by
the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  In the fourth quarter of 2011,
real GDP increased 3.0 percent.  The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete
source data than were available for the “advance” estimate
issued last month.  In the advance estimate, the increase in
real GDP was 2.2 percent.  The increase in real GDP in the first quarter primarily
reflected positive contributions from personal consumption
expenditures (PCE), exports, residential fixed investment,
private inventory investment, and nonresidential fixed
investment that were partly offset by negative contributions
from federal government spending and state and local government
spending.  Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation
of GDP, increased.  The deceleration in real GDP in the first quarter primarily
reflected a deceleration in private inventory investment, an
acceleration in imports, and a deceleration in nonresidential
fixed investment that were partly offset by accelerations in
exports and in PCE.  Annual Revision of the National Income and Product Accounts  The annual revision of the national income and product
accounts (NIPAs), covering the first quarter of 2009 through the
first quarter of 2012, will be released along with the “advance”
estimate of GDP for the second quarter of 2012 on July 27, 2012.
The August Survey of Current Business will contain an article
that describes the annual revision in detail.  Quarterly estimates are expressed at seasonally adjusted
annual rates, unless otherwise specified. Quarter-to-quarter
dollar changes are differences between these published
estimates.  Percent changes are calculated from unrounded data
and are annualized.  “Real” estimates are in chained (2005)
dollars. Price indexes are chain-type measures.  This news release is available on BEA’s Web site along with
the Technical Note and Highlights related to this release.  For
information on revisions, see “Revisions to GDP, GDI, and Their
Major Components.”  Motor vehicle output added 1.12 percentage points to the
first-quarter change in real GDP after adding 0.47 percentage
point to the fourth-quarter change.  Final sales of computers
subtracted 0.03 percentage point from the first-quarter change
in real GDP after adding 0.12 percentage point to the fourth-
quarter change.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases, which
measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 2.4 percent in
the first quarter, this index increased 1.1 percent in the
fourth quarter. Excluding food and energy prices, the price
index for gross domestic purchases increased 2.3 percent in the
first quarter, compared with an increase of 1.2 percent in the
fourth.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 2.7
percent in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 2.1
percent in the fourth.  Durable goods increased 14.3 percent,
compared with an increase of 16.1 percent.  Nondurable goods
increased 2.3 percent, compared with an increase of 0.8 percent.
Services increased 1.0 percent, compared with an increase of 0.4
percent.  Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 1.9 percent
in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 5.2 percent
in the fourth.  Nonresidential structures decreased 3.3 percent,
compared with a decrease of 0.9 percent.  Equipment and software
increased 3.9 percent, compared with an increase of 7.5 percent.
Real residential fixed investment increased 19.4 percent,
compared with an increase of 11.6 percent.  Real exports of goods and services increased 7.2 percent in
the first quarter, compared with an increase of 2.7 percent in
the fourth.  Real imports of goods and services increased 6.1
percent, compared with an increase of 3.7 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross
investment decreased 5.9 percent in the first quarter, compared
with a decrease of 6.9 percent in the fourth.  National defense
decreased 8.3 percent, compared with a decrease of 12.1 percent.
Nondefense decreased 0.8 percent, in contrast to an increase of
4.5 percent.  Real state and local government consumption
expenditures and gross investment decreased 2.5 percent,
compared with a decrease of 2.2 percent.  The change in real private inventories added 0.21
percentage point to the first-quarter change in real GDP, after
adding 1.81 percentage points to the fourth-quarter change.
Private businesses increased inventories $57.7 billion in the
first quarter, following an increase of $52.2 billion in the
fourth quarter and a decrease of $2.0 billion in the third.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in
private inventories -- increased 1.7 percent in the first
quarter, compared with an increase of 1.1 percent in the fourth.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced -- increased
1.9 percent in the first quarter, compared with an increase of
3.1 percent in the fourth.  Gross national product  Real gross national product -- the goods and services
produced by the labor and property supplied by U.S. residents --
increased 1.3 percent in the first quarter, compared with an
increase of 1.8 percent in the fourth.  GNP includes, and GDP
excludes, net receipts of income from the rest of the world,
which decreased $16.4 billion in the first quarter after
decreasing $36.7 billion in the fourth; in the first quarter,
receipts decreased $4.2 billion, and payments increased $12.1
billion.  Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation’s
output of goods and services -- increased 3.6 percent, or $134.6
billion, in the first quarter to a level of $15,454.0 billion.
In the fourth quarter, current-dollar GDP increased 3.8 percent,
or $143.3 billion.  Gross domestic income  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the output
of the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes earned in
the production of GDP, increased 2.7 percent in the first
quarter, compared with an increase of 2.6 percent in the fourth.
For a given quarter, the estimates of GDP and GDI may differ for
a variety of reasons, including the incorporation of largely
independent source data. However, over longer time spans, the
estimates of GDP and GDI tend to follow similar patterns of
change.  Revisions  The “second” estimate of the first-quarter change in real
GDP is 0.3 percentage point, or $11.4 billion, lower than the
advance estimate issued last month, primarily reflecting a
downward revision to private inventory investment, an upward
revision to imports, and downward revisions to state and local
government spending and to personal consumption expenditures
that were partly offset by upward revisions to nonresidential
fixed investment and to exports.  Corporate Profits  Profits from current production (corporate profits with
inventory valuation and capital consumption adjustments)
increased $11.4 billion in the first quarter, compared with an
increase of $16.8 billion in the fourth quarter.  Current-
production  cash flow  (net cash flow with inventory valuation
adjustment) -- the internal funds available to corporations for
investment -- decreased $98.4 billion in the first quarter, in
contrast to an increase of $44.8 billion in the fourth.  Taxes on corporate income increased $75.8 billion in the
first quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $0.7 billion in the
fourth.  Approximately $50 billion of the increase reflected the
effect of the expiration of “bonus depreciation” in 2011 (see
below).  Profits after tax with inventory valuation and capital
consumption adjustments decreased $64.4 billion in the first
quarter, in contrast to an increase of $17.5 billion in the
fourth.  Dividends increased $10.0 billion, compared with an
increase of $10.3 billion; current-production undistributed
profits decreased $74.3 billion, in contrast to an increase of
$7.2 billion.  Domestic profits of financial corporations increased $20.6
billion in the first quarter, compared with an increase of $29.9
billion in the fourth.  Domestic profits of nonfinancial
corporations increased $6.3 billion, compared with an increase
of $28.4 billion.  In the first quarter, real gross value added
of nonfinancial corporations increased, and profits per unit of
real value added decreased.  The decrease in unit profits
reflected a decrease in unit prices; a decrease in unit labor
costs corporations incurred was offset by an increase in unit
nonlabor costs.  The rest-of-the-world component of profits decreased $15.5
billion in the first quarter, compared with a decrease of $41.5
billion in the fourth.  This measure is calculated as (1)
receipts by U.S. residents of earnings from their foreign
affiliates plus dividends received by U.S. residents from
unaffiliated foreign corporations minus (2) payments by U.S.
affiliates of earnings to their foreign parents plus dividends
paid by U.S. corporations to unaffiliated foreign residents.
The first-quarter decrease was accounted for by a larger
increase in payments than in receipts.  Profits before tax increased $251.2 billion in the first
quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $8.3 billion in the
fourth.  The before-tax measure of profits does not reflect, as
does profits from current production, the capital consumption
and inventory valuation adjustments.  These adjustments convert
depreciation of fixed assets and inventory withdrawals reported
on a tax-return, historical-cost basis to the current-cost
measures used in the national income and product accounts.  The
capital consumption adjustment decreased $230.4 billion in the
first quarter (from $100.9 billion to -$129.5 billion), compared
with a decrease of $1.8 billion in the fourth.  The inventory
valuation adjustment decreased $9.4 billion (from -$18.6 billion
to -$28.0 billion), in contrast to an increase of $26.9 billion.  The large increase in first-quarter taxes on corporate
income and the large decrease in the first-quarter capital
consumption adjustment mainly reflected the expiration of bonus
depreciation claimed under the Tax Relief, Unemployment
Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010.  For
detailed data, see the table “Net Effects of the Tax Acts of
2002, 2003, 2008, 2009, and 2010 on Selected Measures of
Corporate Profits” at
www.bea.gov/national/xls/technote_tax_acts.xls.  Profits from
current production are not affected because they do not depend
on the depreciation-accounting practices used for federal income
tax returns; rather they are based on depreciation of fixed
assets valued at current cost and using consistent depreciation
profiles based on used-asset prices.  BEA’s national, international, regional, and industry
estimates; the Survey of Current Business; and BEA news releases
are available without charge on BEA’s Web site at www.bea.gov.
By visiting the site, you can also subscribe to receive free e-
mail summaries of BEA releases and announcements.  Next release -- June 28, 2012, at 8:30 A.M. EDT for:
Gross Domestic Product:  First Quarter 2012 (Third Estimate)
Corporate Profits:  First Quarter 2012 (Revised Estimate)  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  