-- U.S. House Rejects Bill to Ban Gender-Based Abortions
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-05-31T18:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/u-s-house-rejects-bill-to-ban-gender-based-abortions.html
The U.S. House rejected legislation
to ban abortions based on the gender of the fetus and to make
performing or aiding such a procedure a crime punishable by as
many as five years in prison.  “History and eternity will condemn a ‘no’ vote on this
bill,” said Representative Trent Franks, an  Arizona  Republican
who sponsored the bill.  The vote was 246-168, short of the two-thirds majority
needed under a fast-track procedure used by the House.  The measure, H.R. 3541, would make it a federal crime to
perform an abortion “knowing that such abortion is sought based
on the sex or gender of the child.” It also would bar using
force or the threat of force to coerce such an abortion; funding
or receiving payment for a sex-selection abortion; and
transporting a woman across state lines or into the U.S. for
such an abortion.  The bill wouldn’t penalize women who undergo an abortion
for sex-selection reasons.  It also wouldn’t mandate that doctors, nurses and other
medical professionals ask women why they wanted an abortion,
though it would require health professionals to report to police
if they suspected such an abortion had been performed. The
measure would block federal grants to organizations where such
procedures were performed.  ‘Political Effort’  The Obama administration opposed the legislation, White
House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  “We oppose gender discrimination in all its forms,” he
said. Still, “the result of this legislation would be to
subject doctors to criminal prosecution” for failing to
accurately determine a patient’s motivations, Carney said.  Representative  Steny Hoyer  of  Maryland , the second-ranking
House Democrat, told reporters yesterday the bill is a
“political effort” to create difficulty for lawmakers who vote
against it. “Nobody I know” favors abortions for the purpose
of gender selection, he said.  Franks said Republicans haven’t ruled out bringing similar
legislation before the House later under a procedure requiring a
simple majority vote.  “After today, people who vote will at least be on
record,” Franks said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  