-- S&P 500 Caps Worst Monthly Drop Since September on Data
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-31T21:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/u-s-stock-futures-advance-before-jobs-reports.html
U.S. stocks fell, capping the biggest
monthly decline for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since
September, as disappointment with American economic reports
overshadowed optimism that Greece will stay in the euro.  Energy (S5ENRS)  shares dropped the most among 10 groups in the S&P
500, while the  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index (BUSAIRL)  jumped 3.1 percent
as oil had the biggest monthly decline in more than three years.
 Joy Global Inc. (JOY)  sank 5.4 percent as the maker of mining
equipment cut forecasts.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  rallied 2.1
percent to pace gains in financial shares.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  climbed
5 percent, rebounding from an earlier slump of 4.8 percent.  The S&P 500 decreased 0.2 percent to 1,310.33 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time, after falling below 1,300 earlier today. The
benchmark gauge has dropped 6.3 percent in May. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  retreated 26.41 points, or 0.2 percent, to
12,393.45. About  8 billion  shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges today, or 21 percent above the three-month average.  “There’s less of a growth backstop to the global
economy,” said Alan Gayle, a senior strategist at RidgeWorth
Capital Management in Richmond, Virginia, which oversees about
$47 billion. “The U.S. has held the position of stabilizing
factor amid all the concern about Europe’s crisis. To the extent
that the latest numbers suggest that momentum in the U.S. is
slowing, that will make investors more nervous.”  Equities fell as data showed the U.S. economy grew more
slowly in the first quarter than previously estimated and
business activity expanded in May at the slowest pace in more
than two years. The number of Americans applying for
unemployment benefits rose. A Labor Department report due
tomorrow is projected to show unemployment held at 8.1 percent.  Greek Polls  Benchmark gauges briefly rose today as two polls showed
that the anti-austerity Greek Syriza party is likely to win
second place. An inconclusive election on May 6 has stoked
concern that Greece will be unable to form a government willing
to implement austerity measures reached with the European Union
as part of an international bailout. MSCI Inc. and Standard &
Poor’s announced contingency plans for calculating their equity
indexes should Greece leave the euro currency union.  “This is a chokepoint for Greece,” said  Peter Sorrentino ,
who helps oversee $14.7 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in
Cincinnati. “The question gets pushed to a resolution. It would
be expensive for the rest of Europe to have Greece exit.”  Stocks also rebounded after the Wall Street Journal
reported that the International Monetary Fund’s European
department started contingency plans for a rescue loan to Spain
should the country fail to find funds to bail out Bankia group.
The IMF said it is not preparing financial aid for Spain and the
country denied any talks about a bailout.  Biggest Losses  Concern about Europe’s debt crisis sent the  S&P 500 (SPX)  lower
for a second month, following the best first-quarter gain since
1998. Commodity, financial and technology companies fell at
least 7.8 percent in May.  Energy shares in the S&P 500 dropped 0.9 percent today, the
most among 10 groups, as oil sank after the U.S. Energy
Department said stockpiles increased to a 22-year high.  Options traders are paying the most ever to protect against
losses in  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , spurred by concern expanding U.S.
stockpiles and slowing economic growth will drive down the
largest energy producer by market value. Exxon retreated 1.5
percent to $78.63, the lowest level since November.  Joy Global  tumbled 5.4 percent to $55.86, driving
industrial shares lower. The maker of P&H and Joy mining
equipment cut forecasts for full-year earnings and revenue as
mining companies ease capital expenditure amid concern over the
slowdown in China.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the largest maker of
construction and mining equipment, slid 2.8 percent to $87.62.  Wider Loss  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  retreated 4.7 percent to $8.54. The company
reported a first-quarter loss, citing hardware costs, and said
legal expenses in the current period would lead to a wider loss
than analysts expected.  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  dropped 6.2 percent to $45.82 after the
retailer said May same-store  sales  decreased 4.2 percent. That
compares with the average estimate for a 1.1 percent decline.  Banks had the biggest gain in the S&P 500 among 24 groups,
adding 1 percent. The KBW Bank Index added 1.1 percent,
reversing a loss of 1 percent. Bank of America gained 2.1
percent, the most in the Dow, to $7.35.  Facebook, which this week fell below $30 for the first
time, rallied 5 percent to $29.60. The shares dropped earlier
today amid concern that the world’s largest social-networking
service will struggle to wring profit from its 901 million
users.  Ciena’s Results  Ciena (CIEN)  Corp. climbed 14 percent, the most since September,
to $13.55. The maker of networking equipment rose after second-
quarter sales and earnings topped analysts’ estimates. Ciena is
capitalizing on demand for speedy fiber-optic networks, which
transmit data in the form of light over fiber strands.  Talbots Inc. (TLB)  soared 89 percent, the most ever, to $2.44.
The women’s clothing retailer trying to reverse falling sales
agreed to be bought by private-equity firm Sycamore Partners for
a reduced price of $369 million, including debt.  TJX Cos. (TJX)  rose 2.7 percent to $42.46. The owner of the T.J.
Maxx and Marshalls retail chains posted an 8 percent increase in
May same-store sales, topping analysts’ estimates of 5.1 percent
as warm weather and lower gasoline prices boosted consumer
spending.  Target Corp. (TGT) , which also beat estimates, added 0.2
percent to $57.91.  “Traffic trends have picked up as hot summer weather
spread over the majority of the nation,” Adrienne Tennant, an
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Washington, wrote.  The S&P 500 may rebound almost 3 percent in June based on
the average size of moves following past May declines of 4
percent or more, Bespoke Investment Group said.  Historical Moves  The benchmark gauge has fallen 4 percent or more in May on
15 occasions since 1928, followed by an average June increase of
2.8 percent, according to data compiled by Bespoke. The index
rose in June 60 percent of the time following such moves.  The last time the  S&P 500  slid more than 4 percent during
May of a U.S. presidential election year was in 1984, when it
tumbled 5.9 percent before rebounding 1.8 percent in June. This
year’s slide may also mark a bottom for the market followed by a
June rally,  Justin Walters , Bespoke’s co-founder, said in a
phone interview yesterday.  “The data certainly leans positive,” Walters said.
“Along with the election analysis and the big down Mays, the
risk-reward favors the market going positive here.”  The S&P 500 has averaged a gain of 0.51 percent in June
following an increase in May, the Bespoke report showed, and the
index has risen 0.96 percent in June after May declines. Its
performance next month ultimately will be determined by Europe’s
handling of the government-debt crisis, according to Walters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  