-- U.S. Can Rescue Its Troubled Cities by Abolishing Them
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2012-05-31T23:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/u-s-can-rescue-its-troubled-cities-by-abolishing-them.html
Sunland Park, New Mexico, a small and
impoverished suburb of El Paso, has made “news of the weird”
headlines lately for its official  corruption . Daniel Salinas was
elected mayor in March, but has been legally barred from taking
office. Why? Because he is under indictment for  33 felonies .  One accusation is that Salinas used public funds to pay the
city’s lobbyist to have a political opponent filmed while
receiving a lap dance at a strip club, and then tried to extort
his rival into leaving the race. Salinas, who has pleaded not
guilty to all charges, has also boasted of his ties to drug
cartels, the  district attorney   says .  Various Sunland Park employees, including the city manager
and the acting police chief, had to quit because they, too, are
under felony indictment. The previous mayor stepped aside after
admitting he was drunk when he signed a $1 million contract. And
now the state has taken over Sunland Park’s financial
operations, after issuing a scathing  audit . The report, 81 pages
of examples of fraud and incompetence, says the city is in “a
complete state of financial disarray.”  The question is: Why does Sunland Park exist at all? More
precisely, why does it exist as an incorporated city?  Sunland Park  Sunland Park’s population of 14,000 is poor and
marginalized; 47 percent of residents live below the poverty
line, including 63 percent of children. Per-capita annual income
is only $9,700, less than half the  New Mexico  average. Only half
of adults aged 25 or older are high-school graduates; 42 percent
of residents report that they don’t speak English well.  This presents two challenges for governing the city. One is
that there is a weak tax base to support public services. That
challenge is surmountable. States can use local aid payments to
prop up poor jurisdictions. New Mexico is particularly
aggressive in such equalization, with the state government
financing more than 80 percent of the cost of K-12 education.  But the other challenge is much more difficult to surmount:
municipalities such as Sunland Park tend to have low civic
engagement and are ill-equipped to hold their officials
accountable. Only 14 percent of Sunland Park’s voting-age
residents participated in the March election that Salinas won.  Good leaders aren’t likely to be drawn to the thankless job
of running these kinds of places. It’s a lot more fun to be the
city manager of a prosperous jurisdiction, where you have ample
resources to work with. Large, troubled municipalities such as
Detroit offer the challenge of restoring a city’s greatness. But
who aspires to be the city manager of Sunland Park?  One obvious answer: people who see such cities and towns as
exploitable. We saw this in  Bell ,  California , a lower-income
suburb of 38,000 in Los Angeles County. Bell, until recently,
paid its city manager $800,000 a year and its part-time city
council members almost $100,000. Or in neighboring Maywood,
which filled its police department with officers who had been
pushed out of other jurisdictions for misconduct and corruption.  And we see it in  Central Falls ,  Rhode Island  (population
19,000; per-capita income, $10,800), which is now in state
receivership. The city has its own pension fund, whose balance
it ran down to zero due to decades of mismanagement. The
receiver has, as a result, cut retirees’ pensions, in some cases
by as much as half. Meanwhile, the city’s longtime mayor is
under federal investigation on allegations that he directed city
business to a friend in exchange for kickbacks.  Central Falls  When a headline-grabbing event occurs, such as the exposure
of Bell’s outrageous salaries or the exhaustion of the  Central
Falls  pension fund, these cities get state-level attention and
supervision. But that typically comes only after corrupt
officials have had years to mismanage and exploit their cities.  The best way to protect residents of these impoverished
places is to end the jurisdictions in their current form,
reconstituting them in such a way that officials are more likely
to be held accountable. Three such options are dissolution,
merger and state takeover.  In states with strong county government, cities and towns
are unnecessary for the provision of local services, and many
residents live in unincorporated areas. The usual argument for
forming a city or town is that an additional layer of government
will be more responsive to local needs. But if a city has a
history of corruption and mismanagement, it’s worse than
superfluous; the residents are better off dissolving the
municipality and going under direct county government.  This is essentially what has happened in  Maywood . The
employees, especially its police, had such a reputation for
corruption that the city could no longer obtain liability
insurance. As a result, while Maywood didn’t disincorporate, it
dismissed almost all municipal staff and contracted out its
government. The Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department now
polices Maywood by contract, and neighboring cities provide
other services.  Under the merger option, troubled cities and towns can be
wedded to larger ones with healthier civic institutions. As
Central Falls was entering receivership, one option that was
floated was to merge the city with neighboring  Pawtucket .
Unsurprisingly, the challenge is to get the other party to
agree: Pawtucket wasn’t likely to take on its basket-case
neighbor without financial inducement. Instead, Central Falls
remains separate but under state management.  In Sunland Park’s case, the obvious candidate for a merger
would be El Paso,  Texas , were it not for their location in
different states. Instead, the state has started to manage
Sunland Park’s finances, allowing it to clean up the mess. But
the state can’t run Sunland Park forever, and it’s not obvious
that the city has civic institutions that will allow it to
return productively to local control.  Union Opposition  Strong receivership laws, such as one recently enacted in
 Michigan , have come under fire from public-employee unions. They
don’t like that state officials are allowed to void public-
employee contracts over the objections of local officials and
unions. But that is exactly why such laws are important: They
put cities under management with the power to make necessary,
but politically difficult, choices.  Control boards  that usurped the power of city councils were
essential for the fiscal turnarounds of  New York  in the 1970s
and  Washington  in the 1990s. The experience of having been taken
over has also improved the culture of fiscal management in these
cities, meaning that locally elected officials have become more
prudent in managing budgets.  Receivership laws can similarly promote sound budgeting in
smaller municipalities, but only if the threat of takeover is
credible.  Some of the largest and most troubled U.S. cities are
getting better. Mayors such as  Cory Booker  in  Newark ,  New
Jersey , and Dave Bing in  Detroit  are taking steps to reduce
crime and return investment to once-great cities. But saving
Detroit and Newark are projects that can draw support from the
remnants of an urban elite that is engaged in making these
cities better, and that can attract talented people like Booker
and Bing.  There’s no Cory Booker in the offing for Sunland Park. The
right question to ask isn’t who can save Sunland Park, but how
to save its people. The best answer is to abolish Sunland Park
as a unit of government altogether.  (Josh Barro is a contributor to Forbes.com and a fiscal-
policy analyst based in New York. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  private space
exploration  and  fighting childhood obesity ; William Pesek on
 Hong Kong’s growth concerns ;  Noah Feldman  on  China’s social-
media censorship ; Luigi Zingales on  market-friendly financial
regulation ; Josh Barro on  taking over failing cities .  To contact the writer of this article:
Josh Barro at  jbarro@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 