-- U.S. Retailers’ May Sales Beat Estimates
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-05-31T20:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/u-s-retailers-may-sales-beat-estimates.html
U.S retailers’ same-store sales
topped analysts’ estimates this month as warm weather and lower
gasoline prices boosted  consumer spending .  Sales at  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest U.S. discount
retailer, climbed 4.4 percent, beating the average projection
for a 3.3 percent gain from analysts surveyed by researcher
Retail Metrics Inc.  TJX Cos. (TJX) , the owner of the T.J. Maxx and
Marshalls retail chains, posted an 8 percent increase in same-
store sales, topping the 5.1 percent estimate.  Shoppers hit the mall in large numbers this past weekend as
retailers offered Memorial Day promotions and warm weather in
the Northeast drove purchases of summer apparel. Same-store
sales for the more than 20 retailers tracked by Swampscott,
Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics rose 4 percent in May,
beating estimates of a 1.8 percent increase.  “It shows a real resiliency of the consumer, and generally
speaking, it’s a positive sign for the state of the retail
economy,” Joel Bines, a Dallas-based managing director in the
retail practice at AlixPartners, said in a telephone interview.  Target, based in  Minneapolis ,  rose  0.2 percent to $57.91 at
the close in  New York . TJX, based in Framingham,  Massachusetts ,
 increased  2.7 percent to $42.46.  Confidence among U.S. consumers climbed in May to the
highest level since October 2007, according to a Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index, as gasoline prices
retreated 7.6 percent from an 11-month high in April.  “Traffic trends have picked up as hot summer weather
spread over the majority of the nation,”  Adrienne Tennant , an
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in  Washington , wrote in a
note before today’s report.  Warmest Since 2007  The month of May in the U.S. this year was the warmest
since 2007, with the hottest Memorial Day in more than 50 years,
according to Planalytics, a weather data provider.  Bon-Ton Stores Inc. (BONT) , the department-store operator that
hired the former head of Lord & Taylor LLC as chief executive
officer in January, rose after reporting same-store sales
advanced 1.5 percent, compared with the average estimate for a 2
percent decline. The shares increased 13 percent to $5.26.  Ross Stores Inc. (ROST)  posted an 8 percent increase in same-store
sales, topping the 5.2 percent average of estimates.  Limited Brands Inc. (LTD) , the Columbus, Ohio-based operator of
the Victoria’s Secret lingerie chain, said sales advanced 6
percent, beating estimates for a 5.4 percent gain.  Department-store chain  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  tumbled 6.2 percent to
$45.82 after reporting same-store sales that fell 4.2 percent,
worse than the estimate for a 1.1 percent decline. The  Menomonee
Falls , Wisconsin-based company said second-quarter sales will be
“modestly negative” as a result.  Gap Inc. (GPS)  fell 0.6 percent to $26.50 after reporting a 2
percent gain in same-store sales that missed the estimate of a
3.3 percent increase.  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. The revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  