-- U.S. Farms Got $1 Million in Insurance Subsidies, Group Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-05-31T19:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/u-s-farms-got-1-million-in-insurance-subsidies-group-says-2-.html
Crop-insurance premiums exceeding $1
million were paid out to each of more than two dozen U.S. farm
operations last year, according to an  analysis  by a group that
is asking Congress to reduce subsidies to growers.  More than 10,000 policyholders received insurance-premium
subsidies of at least $100,000, the Washington-based
Environmental Working Group said today in a  statement . The EWG
said its conclusions were based on records obtained in response
to a Freedom of Information Act request. Names of policyholders
weren’t available, as Congress has barred the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  from disclosing that information.  “The eye-opening analysis shows crop insurance is not only
very expensive, but also very, very generous to large and highly
profitable businesses,” Craig Cox, the group’s vice president
of agriculture and natural resources, said in a statement. “Now
the public needs to know who they are.”  The Senate Agriculture Committee this month approved a
five-year farm bill that would add a new insurance program to
help compensate growers of major crops for expected reductions
in other subsidies. Crop and revenue insurance is now the
government’s primary support for farm income, the Environmental
Working Group said in earlier report. Taxpayers paid out $7.4
billion to lower the premiums farmers paid for insurance in
2011, more than quadruple the $1.5 billion in 2002, it said.  Secret Subsidies  “Taxpayers don’t know who is getting the money,”  Ken
Cook , the group’s president, said today. He called on Senate
Agriculture Committee members to “lift the veil of secrecy”
before the full Senate takes up the farm bill next month.  Companies that administer the crop-insurance program
include San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Ace Ltd. (ACE) ,
which has its headquarters in Zurich.  Messages left with the office of Senator  Debbie Stabenow ,
the chairwoman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, and the U.S.
Department of Agriculture seeking comment weren’t returned.  According to the report released today, a single farm
business in  Florida  received $1.9 million in subsidies to insure
tomato and pepper crops in five counties. It also highlighted an
operation in  Minnesota  that received $1.7 million in subsidies
to insure corn and soybean crops.  Premium subsidies went to 486,867 policyholders last year,
when the cost of the program exceeded $11 billion, a record,
with most of the benefits going to large farming operations,
according to the Environmental Working Group analysis. Companies
that administer the  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  