-- Mugzie the Beagle Dies Listening to Schubert: Commentary
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-06-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/mugzie-the-beagle-dies-listening-to-schubert-commentary.html
My dog Mugzie died while we were
listening to Schubert’s “Winterreise.”  It seemed appropriate.  These songs are about journeys -- through  Germany  in the
early 19th century and, in a larger sense, through a wintry
world in which the narrator finds no shelter at sundown.  The recording featured Christian Gerhaher, a mesmerizing
singer new to me.  His empathetic interpretation brought to mind my favorite
“Winterreise” by Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau, the cerebral German
lieder singer with the voice of burnished gold, who died a week
before Mugzie. Gerhaher sounds quite a bit like him.  Mugzie loathed high sopranos especially, and would circle
around the living room looking for escape.  Schubert fortunately favored the lyric baritone.  Though sickly for years before his death at 31, a lot of
Schubert’s music radiates happiness.  Stranger Departs  Think of those jaunty wandering songs (“Schone
Mullerin”), the Trout Quintet or his symphonies.  “Winterreise” is different.  There are 24 songs, all settings of poems by Wilhelm
Muller, another short-lived contemporary, starting with “Gute
Nacht” and its hypnotic opening lines:  “I was a stranger when I arrived, and a stranger when I
left,” sings the narrator as he quietly closes the door on a
doomed love affair and leaves with the moonlight as his
companion.  Mugzie was lying on her favorite suede bed as we shared our
last salami sandwich.  Mystery surrounded her from the day she arrived on the
Upper West Side, tumbling out of a van dispatched by a sweet
woman at a Brooklyn kill shelter after my friend Sheila and I
got hopelessly lost trying to pick her up on an evening so
stormy, Muller would have reached for his quill to rhyme:  Stormy was our way,  no beacon lit the L.I.E.,  where mysteriously we  ended our journey at J.F.K.  Or something like that.  Great Sugar  Nothing was known about Mugzie except that a young dude had
dropped her off saying his grandmother had died and no one
wanted her.  By contrast, the life of Mugzie’s predecessor, the sainted
Sugar, was well-documented since she had worked as a sniffer in
the Beagle Brigade of the Department of Agriculture at Kennedy
airport.  Sugar’s job was to separate illicitly imported meat
products from tourists who feared this country might not have
the perfect pepperoni.  Sniffer dogs are trained to sit down in front of a
suspicious suitcase; the handler rewards them with a treat.
After a sterling start, Sugar started sitting down in front of
every suitcase.  Rendered useless by her greed, her employment came to an
end, but the world became her oyster.  She traveled widely and became known for her nocturnal
escapes in  Santa Fe , her heedless destructiveness (wreaked on
any interfering curtains and windows) and guile (stealing
anything off the plates of divas as they sat on the couch and
reminisced about the past, oblivious to her lack of interest in
anything not food-related).  Senior, Obese  Mugzie’s prospects had seemed quite poor.  The unbelievably sad picture of her on Petfinder.com showed
a swaybacked dog seductively described as “senior and obese.”  Believed to be 10, she remained about that age, looking
younger as her health improved. We spent six years together. She
immediately took to the Sugar memorial bed by the fireplace.  Inspired by her soulful, searching eyes, we made up
biographies for Mugzie. That name! And those huge front paws
with crooked nails suggested a home without much of a lawn, but
maybe a concrete patio where she shared in family barbecues. I
couldn’t help noticing that she always did her business on the
flagstone at my house, never mind the acres of greenery
available.  Unlike my other beagles, Mugzie loved fruits, vegetables,
fish, even caviar on very special occasions. Perhaps an ancient
Russian princess living in a draped apartment in Brighton Beach,
our local Odessa not far from the shelter, had fed her tsarist
scraps like scrumptious beets until she joined the Romanovs?  Miss Reller  She was not a cuddler. Mugzie hated being picked up.
Approach her and she would instantly roll on her back and show
her belly, while producing anguished shrieks. Maybe a defense
mechanism from Sunday afternoons when the Russki princess’s
great-grandchildren came to visit.  Mugzie was friendly without being effusive and would trot
over to favorite visitors like Miss Reller, provider of
specially concocted frozen pup-cakes.  Had she ever had pups? The only maternal instincts she
revealed were for Minnie, another rescued beagle, who was
possibly her age and got her face licked every morning.  When Hamlette the micro pig arrived, Mugzie allowed her to
share her bed, but looked the other way as dogs do to make
annoying creatures disappear (out of sight, out of mind, and
hopefully dead soon).  In 2008 we were both diagnosed with cancer. Her surgery
cost more and wasn’t covered. I laughed about that, but worried
her days were numbered.  Instead we shared these happy last years.  “Winterreise” has several references to dogs, who growl
at the wanderer, the lonely outsider.  My Mugzie never growled at anyone. There was always the
possibility of a treat.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.)  Muse highlights include  NYC Weekend  and  Lapham .  To contact the writer of this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net . 