-- Human Genome Sciences Takeover Defense Survives Court Test
-- B y   P e t e r   G e i e r ,   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-05-31T17:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/human-genome-sciences-takeover-defense-survives-court-test-1-.html
Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  defeated a
challenge to a takeover defense designed to fend off a
$2.6 billion hostile buyout bid by drugmaker  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc. (GSK)   After a morning hearing, Montgomery County Circuit Court
Judge  Michael Mason  in Rockville, Maryland, rejected arguments
by Human Genome stakeholder  Duane Howell  for a temporary
restraining order to invalidate the company’s so-called poison
pill shareholder rights plan. Mason denied a request for
expedited handling of the case, noting that only one shareholder
sued.  Mason said he found the law “straightforward and clear”
in denying the investor’s bid.  “This is not a case where a number of disgruntled
shareholders have come to court up in arms,” the judge said in
court.  Howell challenged the defense in his May 25 filing, saying
it unfairly entrenches company directors and blocks shareholders
from taking GSK’s offer. Lawyers for both sides declined to
immediately comment on the ruling.  Teamed Up  Earlier this month, London-based Glaxo launched a hostile,
$13 per share all-cash bid for Rockville-based  Human Genome , its
partner on three drugs, including the lupus treatment  Benlysta .
The companies also have teamed up on experimental medicines for
diabetes and hardening of the arteries that are in late-stage
testing.  The offer came after the Human Genome board rejected
Glaxo’s bid, partly because many of the biotech company’s
largest shareholders bought the stock at a higher price than the
$13 offer, two people with knowledge of the matter told
Bloomberg News in April. The board unanimously said investors
should also reject the bid as “inadequate.”  Human Genome’s board also adopted the poison pill,
scheduled to last one year to give company executives time to
complete a strategic review, officials said.  Such defenses are engineered to make unwanted takeover bids
prohibitively expensive by allowing existing shareholders to buy
new shares at a discount when the bid is made. That drives up
the cost of the acquisition.  Hostile Offer  Since Human Genome is incorporated in  Delaware , Mason must
use that state’s law when examining the company’s takeover
defense, said  James J. Hanks Jr. , a Baltimore-based corporate
litigator.  A 2011 Delaware Chancery Court ruling upholding  Airgas
Inc. (ARG) ’s poison-pill defense against a hostile offer will make it
hard for disgruntled Human Genome investors to knock out the
Maryland company’s defense, Hanks said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  “In view of the established Delaware law on the subject,
it will be very difficult for plaintiffs to convince the court
that the board” acted improperly in erecting the defense, Hanks
said.  Since Mason didn’t throw out the defense, investors’ only
recourse is to launch a multiyear proxy fight to replace enough
Human Genome directors that supported GSK’s bid, attorneys said
in a filing.  The case is Duane Howell v. H. Thomas Watkins, 3625331,
Circuit Court for Montgomery County,  Maryland  (Rockville).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Geier in Rockville, Maryland at 
 pgeier11@gmail.com ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 