-- Hunt Sent Murdoch ‘Congrats’ Text Day He Got BSkyB Oversight
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-05-31T13:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/hunt-sent-murdoch-congrats-text-day-he-got-bskyb-bid-oversight.html
Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt 
congratulated  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s James Murdoch about European Union
approval of the company’s bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY)  hours before he was given oversight of the bid in the U.K.  “Great and congrats on Brussels,” Hunt told Murdoch, then
head of News Corp. in  Europe  and chairman of BSkyB, in a text
message on Dec. 21, 2010.  In a phone call that afternoon, Murdoch told Hunt of his
outrage at comments by Business Secretary Vince Cable to
undercover reporters that he’d “declared war” on Murdoch’s
father Rupert, the News Corp. chairman, the minister disclosed
to a media-ethics probe in London today..  Hunt then texted Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
saying he was “seriously worried we are going to screw this
up.” Osborne replied: “I hope you like the solution!” Hours
later, Prime Minister  David Cameron  stripped Cable of
responsibility for reviewing the bid and gave Hunt the job.  Hunt denied he’d been biased in favor of News Corp.’s 7.8
billion-pound ($12.1 billion) offer. A close aide to the culture
secretary resigned after texts and e-mails released to the
inquiry showed he’d given private information about his boss’s
thinking on the bid and suggested he’d asked for help making the
case for it to Ofcom. Hunt is fighting to stay in his job amid
calls from the opposition  Labour Party  for him to resign.  ‘Cheerleader’  Hunt said that before he took on his oversight role he’d
been openly in favor of the deal, which he believed would create
jobs and wouldn’t present competition concerns, since New York-
based News Corp. already effectively controlled BSkyB with a 39
percent stake. Hunt’s own website included a magazine interview
in which he was called a “cheerleader” for the company.  Still, Hunt said, acting in a so-called quasi-judicial role
to rule on the deal didn’t mean he felt he had to make a
decision with “your brain wiped clean.” He said he set
personal preferences aside and relied on regulators.  “I had put aside my policy priorities in this area,” Hunt
said at the inquiry headed by Judge Brian Leveson. “Media
plurality is a much, much higher-order decision. It’s about the
health of the democracy. That was my priority.”  By April 2011, News Corp. had discovered that phone hacking
at its News of the World newspaper, which it previously said was
limited to a single reporter, was in fact more widespread. Hunt
asked for legal advice on whether he should consider hacking in
his review of the deal.  ‘Issue in Trust’  “The one way that phone hacking could impinge was that
there was an issue in trust,” he said. “You had to be
confident you could trust the people you were doing a deal with.
At that stage it was a matter with News International,” the
company’s U.K. publishing unit, and didn’t reflect on News
Corp.’s senior management.  News Corp. lobbyist Fred Michel expressed a desire to get
the deal approved rapidly in communications with Hunt’s aide,
 Adam Smith , who resigned last month after the frequency of their
contacts was disclosed at the inquiry.  Michel asked Smith on May 29 if the company would be able
to get a decision by June 24, which would be “in everyone’s
interest,” according to e-mail messages that News Corp.
provided to the inquiry. On June 15, he sent another asking,
“How do we get things moving?” and complaining that Hunt’s
department was moving too slowly.  “We didn’t know that this was a volcano that was about to
erupt,” Hunt said. “We were just looking at evidence in the
media.”  Murdered Schoolgirl  The eruption came in July, when the  Guardian newspaper 
reported that the News of the World had hacked into the voice
mail of a murdered schoolgirl. News Corp. was forced to close
the Sunday tabloid, Britain’s biggest-selling newspaper, and
withdrew the offer for BSkyB.  Hunt said that before he was given oversight of the bid in
2010, he thought it was “entirely appropriate and proper to
have contact with stakeholders” in the bid in his position as
the Cabinet minister responsible for the media.  The culture secretary called  James Murdoch  from his mobile
phone in November 2010 after being told by officials that it
would be inappropriate to meet him.  Hunt said he hadn’t wanted to hold the formal meeting,
because “that would be getting involved in a parallel process”
to Cable’s deliberations.  He subsequently sent Prime Minister David Cameron a note
requesting they meet with Cable to discuss the bid and saying
Murdoch was angry about the way the business secretary was
dealing with the offer.  “I do now understand a lot more about quasi-judicial
decisions,” Hunt said. “It’s been pretty much engraved on my
brain. I now realize it would not have been possible for Vince
Cable to attend such a meeting and he would have received very
strong advice not to attend such a meeting.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  