-- Turkey Has ‘Very Large’ Loan Demand on Cash Challenge, EBRD Says
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-05-31T10:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/turkey-has-very-large-loan-demand-on-cash-challenge-ebrd-says.html
Turkish demand for loans from the
European Bank for Reconstruction & Development is “very large”
amid a challenging financing environment, a bank official said.  Infrastructure projects may have to be revised to include
more equity investments as debt funding is scarce because of the
euro area financial crisis, EBRD First Vice President Varel Freeman said in an interview in Ankara yesterday, when he
inaugurated the London-based bank’s second office in Turkey.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is seeking to propel
Turkey’s $772 billion economy with at least $10 billion of
construction investments, including highways, bridges and
tunnels Turkish banks have been unable to plug a funding gap as
European lenders have curbed lending to strengthen their balance
sheets.  “The EBRD itself is not going to be the answer, we’re not
going to be pouring 30 billion euros into a series of
infrastructure projects,” Freeman said. “We don’t have the
balance sheet for that, but what we can do is to provide, very
carefully, catalytic money that can help mobilize others to join
us, to help improve the risk perception that other financiers
have coming into these projects.”  Since opening its first office in Istanbul in 2009, the
EBRD’s  loans and equity investments  in  Turkey  have risen to 1.5
billion euros ($1.86 billion) as of last year. The bank’s annual
lending target in Turkey is 1 billion euros, with a focus on
financial firms, energy projects, infrastructure investments and
privatizations.  “I’m quite confident of the overall degree of success that
will be encountered, but it will not come quickly it will not
come automatically,” Freeman said. “We find a very large
demand from private-sector companies and potential municipal
partners for EBRD’s loans and equity invests here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  