-- Isner’s Marathon French Open Loss Eliminates Final American Man
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-31T23:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/murray-rebounds-to-beat-nieminen-in-second-round-at-french-open.html
Another marathon contest for  John Isner  ended with American men being shut out of the third round
of the French Open for the first time since 2007.  Paul-Henri Mathieu of France upset the 10th-seeded Isner in
the second-longest match in the clay-court tournament’s history.  Isner, 27, played tennis’s longest match at Wimbledon in
2010, when he prevailed against another Frenchman,  Nicolas Mahut , in 11 hours, 5 minutes over three days and 183 games. The
final set lasted 138 games.  Mathieu won yesterday 6-7 (2-7), 6-4, 6-4, 3-6, 18-16 in a
second-round match that lasted 5 hours, 41 minutes at  Roland
Garros  in Paris.  “I’m going to go home,” Isner told reporters. “I don’t
even want to think about tennis right now.”  Rafael Nadal  of Spain, seeking his record seventh French
Open singles title, moved into the third round and  Andy Murray 
of Britain overcame back trouble to advance. Defending women’s
champion  Li Na  of China also won, as did men’s No. 5 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France, No. 6  David Ferrer  of Spain and No. 8 Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia.  Men’s top seed Novak Djokovic of Serbia and No. 3  Roger Federer  of Switzerland both face Frenchmen today in the third
round. Djokovic will play Nicolas Devilder and Federer will go
against Mahut. Women’s top seed  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus
also has a third-round match today, against Aleksandra Wozniak
of Canada.  Mathieu finished off his win against Isner on his seventh
match point of a final set that lasted more than 2 1/2 hours and
was the longest in tournament history in terms of games played.  Dominating on Serves  “At the end of the match, I did not even believe I won,”
Mathieu said in a news conference. “We played for more than
five hours, and I thought it was not going to finish.”  Both players dominated with their serves on the clay, with
only six service breaks in the match. Isner, who had 41 aces to
his opponent’s six, made 98 unforced errors.  The final set stayed on serve as Isner saved five match
points. The American then saved a sixth in the last game at
15-40 before sending a shot wide.  The length of the match on the main Court Philippe Chatrier
forced yesterday’s final scheduled contest between second-seeded
 Maria Sharapova  of Russia and Japan’s Ayumi Morita to be
postponed until today.  The longest match in Roland Garros history was between
Frenchmen Arnaud Clement and Fabrice Santoro, who played for six
hours, 33 minutes over two days in the 2004 first round.  Mathieu, 30, is  ranked 261st  in the world after missing
last season with a knee injury.  “I hadn’t played for so long and against such a tough
player,” he said. “I can’t lie and say I’m fresh. I’m tired.”  While no U.S. men advanced past the second round, American
woman continued their best performance in seven years. Unseeded
Varvara Lepchenko and Christina McHale both won to put three
U.S. women into the third round for the time since 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  