-- Mutual Funds Group Urges Limits on Hedge Fund Advertising
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-06-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/mutual-funds-group-urges-limits-on-hedge-fund-advertising.html
Mutual funds are pushing for limits
on hedge fund advertising permitted under the Jumpstart Our
Business Startups Act, saying such ads may hurt investors and
damage the entire fund industry.  The law’s repeal of a ban on the marketing of private
offerings to the general public may result in misleading
advertisements for hedge funds, Robert Grohowski, a senior
counsel at the Washington-based  Investment Company Institute ,
wrote in a  blog posting  yesterday. The group represents more
than 13,000 funds with over $13 trillion in assets.  “Most of the JOBS Act has little to do with the fund
industry, but one provision, the repeal of a long-standing ban
on advertising private securities offerings, has the potential
to open the door to misleading ads for private funds, such as
hedge funds,” Grohowski said.  In the past, securities laws generally required firms to
market non-publicly traded securities only to so-called
accredited investors with whom they’ve had an existing
relationship. That generally meant individuals with assets of
greater than $1 million, excluding a primary residence, or those
earning more than $200,000 annually. The solicitation rules were
designed to protect the average investor from deals with less
disclosure and higher risks.  In a comment letter to the Securities and Exchange
Commission last week, the ICI urged regulators to impose
restrictions on private fund advertising that are at least as
extensive as those for mutual funds. The group also suggested a
ban on advertising  hedge funds ’ performance until rules are
established governing how to calculate the returns, according to
the letter, which is posted on the ICI’s  website .  BlackRock Differs  Not all fund companies share the ICI’s view. BlackRock, the
world’s largest asset manager with $3.68 trillion in assets,
supports the removal of the ban on general advertising,
according to a letter the firm sent to the SEC last month.  “We believe that this prohibition has unnecessarily
limited the methods by which issuers can reach sophisticated
investors,” Barbara Novick, a co-founder and vice chairman at
the firm, said in the letter. “Investor protection concerns are
adequately addressed by existing regulatory requirements,”
Novick said.  BlackRock manages more than $110 billion of alternative
assets globally, including through offerings of private funds
such as hedge funds, private-equity funds and funds of funds.  While private funds can now market to any investor, they
still can only sell to accredited investors, Grohowski said in
his posting.  The ICI’s position was reported earlier yesterday by Dow 
Jones.  The JOBS Act, which was signed by President  Barack Obama 
April 5, also permits companies to sell equity through
crowdfunding websites and eases funding rules for closely held
firms and newly public companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  