-- Vale as Cheapest Miner Signals Buy to Aberdeen: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-05-31T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/vale-as-cheapest-miner-signals-buy-to-aberdeen-corporate-brazil.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the cheapest of the world’s
15 biggest miners relative to earnings, is luring investment
from BlackRock Inc. to Aberdeen Asset Management Plc after the
stock slumped to the  lowest  in two and a half years.  The world’s largest iron-ore producer is trading at 5.2
times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
almost half the 9.1 ratio for  BHP Billiton Ltd (BHP) , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. On May 2, the gap between Vale’s
6.06 price-to-earnings measure and BHP’s 11.2 ratio was the
widest in at least a year.  Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira is seeking to
deliver more returns to shareholders by selling unprofitable
assets and reviewing spending plans after increasing the
dividends target for this year by 50 percent to $6 billion. The
price decline means Vale is the “most obvious” stock to buy in
Brazil, according to Will Landers, who manages $7 billion in
Latin American equities at BlackRock.  “On any metric right now Vale looks cheap,”  Nick
Robinson , who helps manage $15 billion of Latin American shares
at Aberdeen in  Sao Paulo , said in an interview May 29. Aberdeen
is considering increasing holdings that represent 5 percent of
Vale’s preferred shares.  Vale, based in Rio de Janeiro, fell 0.4 percent to 36.45
reais in Sao Paulo yesterday. Before today it fell 19 percent in
12 months, more than the 16 percent decline in the Brazilian
benchmark  Bovespa Index. (IBOV)  State-run oil producer  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , also based in Rio, lost 24 percent during the
same period, while Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s biggest
mining company, dropped 27 percent in Sydney.  New CEO  Ferreira, who took the helm at the Brazilian miner from
 Roger Agnelli  a year ago, is reviewing all projects amid rising
costs and labor shortages. Last year Vale delayed the start of
the $8 billion Carajas Serra Sul expansion, its biggest ever,
and three other projects in Brazil.  “Any project that deviates from what was approved by our
board needs to be reassessed,” Ferreira told reporters on May
18. “Our target is to be focused.”  The company this month agreed to sell its El Hatillo
thermal-coal mine in  Colombia  along with port and railway assets
for $407 million to Colombian Natural Resources SAS, a unit of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  It hired  Bank of Nova Scotia  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  to sell its oil and natural-gas assets in Brazil,
three people familiar with the matter said earlier this month.
Vale also sold its stake in a Brazilian kaolin mineral business
earlier this month.  Dividends  Failure to complete a $21.4 billion investment plan for the
year means Vale will likely have more cash to distribute to
shareholders,  Marcelo Aguiar , a Sao Paulo-based Goldman Sachs
mining equity analyst, said in an interview in Rio on May 21. He
estimates Vale will pay $8 billion in dividends this year, $2
billion more than the goal announced Jan. 16.  Vale last year paid a record $9 billion to shareholders,
more than double its initial target, and bought back $3 billion
worth of stock after investment fell short of initial plans.  The outlook for slowing growth in  China , the biggest iron-
ore consumer, and a legal dispute over 30.7 billion reais ($15.2
billion) of overdue taxes claimed by the Brazilian government
may continue to hold Vale back, Aguiar said.  “That’s a problem that it has that BHP or  Rio Tinto (RIO)  don’t
have,” Aguiar, who has a buy recommendation on the shares, said
about the dispute. “I like the stock a lot but those elements
are very negative.”  Currency Advantage  Brazil is seeking tax payments on profits from companies’
foreign units between 1996 and 2008. The company has been
challenging the claims since 2003.  Vale is probably getting close to resolving the dispute
with the government, while Chinese growth is expected to
accelerate in the second half of the year, spurring demand for
Vale’s iron ore, BlackRock’s Landers said in an interview May 22
in Rio.  The Brazilian real’s 21 percent slump in the past year will
also help make the company’s exports to China more competitive,
he said. The currency this month started trading lower than 2
per  U.S. dollar  for the first time in three years.  “Vale is the most obvious stock to buy in this
environment,” Landers said. “They’ll make a lot of money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  