-- Veterans Won't Know of Retraining Option, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-05-31T20:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/veterans-won-t-know-of-retraining-option-lawmakers-say.html
The U.S. government is a month away
from offering retraining funds for older military veterans who
can’t find jobs, and unless federal bureaucrats step up their
game, veterans won’t find the money, lawmakers said.  “I haven’t seen anything myself on the news or on TV about
this program,” Representative Dan Benishek, a Michigan
Republican, said today during a hearing of the House Veterans’
Affairs Committee. “If I weren’t on this committee, I wouldn’t
have known about it.”  The Veteran Retraining Assistance Program, part of a
veterans jobs package passed by Congress last year, will offer
as much as 12 months of benefits, at about $1,473 a month, to
unemployed veterans 35 to 60 years of age who need retraining
for civilian jobs.  The program, which begins July 1 and will end in 2014, is
designed to help 99,000 of the 400,000 veterans in that age
bracket who lack jobs, said Allison Hickey, undersecretary for
benefits in the Department of  Veterans Affairs .  About 785,000 veterans were unemployed in April, of which
about 620,000 were older than 34, according to the  U.S. Bureau
of Labor Statistics .  With no centralized system to identify eligible veterans,
federal officials are using every resource they have to target
them, including e-mails, social-network sites, newspapers and
free media, Hickey said.  No Advertising  Representative Jeff Miller, a Florida Republican and
chairman of the committee, expressed surprise that the Veterans
Affairs and Labor departments have no advertising budget to
promote the program.  “I don’t know that I’ve ever heard an individual come into
a committee and say they don’t need a budget,” Miller told
Hickey.  Hickey said she saw no need for paid advertising because
groups and social media outlets are offering to run public-
service announcements free of charge.  Since the government started accepting applications for the
program about two weeks ago, about 12,000 veterans have applied,
Hickey said.  “I haven’t seen a lack of response to date,” she told the
committee. “Almost 1,000 people a day are applying for this
benefit.”  Committee members said they intend to monitor the program
closely to make sure it serves as many veterans as funding
allows.  “It would be tragic if we do not help veterans take
advantage of these opportunities,” said Representative Corrine Brown, a Florida Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  