-- Vivendi Drafts SFR Cost Cuts, Looks to New Unit CEO for ‘Vision’
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-05-31T17:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/vivendi-drafts-sfr-cost-cuts-looks-to-new-unit-ceo-for-vision-.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Chief Executive Officer
 Jean-Bernard Levy  said “strategic vision” for French phone
unit SFR will come from Michel Combes, the division’s new head
starting Aug. 1 and a current  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  executive.  The company has drafted cost-cutting plans for the unit and
will give details to unions in the coming weeks, Levy, Vivendi’s
head and interim CEO of SFR, said today in a speech to
reporters.  “Michel Combes will lead the company from Aug. 1 with his
own strategic vision, within the boundaries that Vivendi will
set as a shareholder,” Levy said.  Levy spent 7.95 billion euros ($9.84 billion) to take full
control of SFR from Vodafone last year. Vivendi’s shares, which
closed up 0.7 percent today at 13.06 euros, have dropped 34
percent since the deal was announced.  Faced with new competition from discounter  Iliad SA (ILD) , which
became France’s fourth mobile-network operator on Jan. 10, SFR
has cut prices and looked to reduce expenses. Its chief for more
than 11 years, Frank Esser, stepped down two months ago. Levy
has been running the unit since.  “A great deal of our effort has been to organize a
commercial response,” Levy said. “We’ve started a plan to
transform the company, and we are putting the last touches to
it.”  SFR, which accounts for 41 percent of Paris-based Vivendi’s
sales and 34 percent of operating income, has looked to cut
costs by stopping unpopular product lines as well as reducing
network, computer and call-center expenses.  Vivendi plans to reduce the unit’s operating expenses by as
much as 450 million euros this year through firings, cuts in
marketing spending and renegotiating contracts with  call
centers , two people with knowledge of the matter said earlier
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  