-- LVMH Wins Order From to Block Knockoff Imports in U.S.
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-05-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/lvmh-wins-order-from-to-block-knockoff-imports-in-u-s-.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy  Louis Vuitton  SA,
expanding its fight against counterfeiters beyond courts, won a
U.S. trade ruling that will help it keep knockoff Louis Vuitton
handbags, luggage and accessories from entering the U.S.  The French luxury goods maker filed the complaint last
year, accusing a Chinese couple of setting up shell companies to
sell counterfeit and knockoff handbags in the U.S. Notice of the
International Trade Commission’s  order  was posted yesterday on
the agency’s website.  Louis Vuitton’s use of an ITC complaint to protect a brand
valued at $25.9 billion by Millward Brown Optimor’s 2012 BrandZ
study may be emulated by other luxury goods makers, said
Michelle Marsh of Kenyon & Kenyon in  New York , who specializes
in fashion-related trademark issues.  “I can see it being very helpful for industries struggling
with counterfeiters, like the blue jeans industry,” Marsh said
in an interview. “There is the hope that you have somewhat of a
deterrent by being aggressive. This is definitely going to open
another avenue that has not been used perhaps enough.”  The ITC, which investigates claims of unfair trade
practices including violations of intellectual-property rights,
more often handles patent-infringement cases.  Paris-based Louis Vuitton, named the world’s most valuable
luxury brand for the seventh year, has  sued  companies that run
websites and already works with customs officials and other  law
enforcement  to seize counterfeit goods.  The order, which will go into effect in 60 days unless
President  Barack Obama  overrules it on public policy grounds,
directs Customs and  Border Protection  to turn away any products
that are made in a way that is similar or copies the Louis
Vuitton trademarks.  “A general exclusion order gets more attention and makes
the enforcement a higher priority,” Robert Zelnick, who
specializes in trademark law at  McDermott Will & Emery  in
Washington, said in an interview before today’s order. “There’s
a much higher attention level played to items that are subject
to an exclusion order.”  Company founder Louis Vuitton started in 1854 to make
custom-made luggage. The trademarked toile monogram, of a
diagonal pattern of initials and geometric shapes on a chestnut
background, dates to the 1890s and was created by Louis
Vuitton’s son, Georges, to distinguish the company’s goods from
rival products.  Counterfeiting Ring  The case was originally filed at the ITC targeting
companies set up by a couple whom Louis Vuitton claimed ran a
counterfeiting ring using numerous shell companies. The couple
and some of their companies reached settlement agreements, while
other companies selling the counterfeits failed to respond to
the complaint.  Louis Vuitton argued that it was entitled to a broad
exclusion order that would cover any products infringing its
trademarks because it was impossible to identify every company.
The staff at the ITC, which acts as a third party in
investigations in the public’s interest, supported the request.  “These infringements and counterfeits have been located at
kiosks, stores, swap meets, flea markets, trade shows and other
similar locations,” Louis Vuitton said in its request.  Customs officials  seized  $178.9 million worth of
 counterfeit goods  last year, and products from  China  accounted
for 62 percent of the seizures. Had the products been
legitimate, they would have been worth $1.1 billion.  Once customs receives the order, all ports in the U.S. will
be notified with information that will help officials know what
to look for, such as how the shipments may enter the U.S. and
how to distinguish between the real and fake goods, said Therese
Randazzo, director of IPR policy and programs division of
Customs and Border Protection.  Companies that are turned away at the border can file a
protest, and can even seek a ruling ahead of time to get
clearance to enter the U.S., she said.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Handbags, Luggage,
Accessories, and Packaging Thereof, 337-754, U.S. International
Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  