-- Volcker Urges Global Financial System Overhaul After Crisis
-- B y   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-05-31T12:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/volcker-urges-overhaul-on-global-financial-system-after-crisis.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , the namesake of U.S. rules designed to rein in banks’
proprietary trading, proposed another regulatory overhaul: this
time, regarding supervision of global capital flows.  “This is a subject that has been basically ignored for 20
or 30 years now, ever since the breakdown of the Bretton Woods
system,” Volcker said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
in  Hong Kong  today. “Behind this immediate crisis of the
financial system, the weaknesses in the international monetary
system have left these huge imbalances going on and on.”  A new framework is needed to apply “discipline” against
the types of imbalances that swelled between the U.S. and  China 
in recent years, with excess  American consumption  financed by
surplus Chinese saving, Volcker said. In a speech later, he
proposed a system revolving around “equilibrium exchange-
rates” and trading bands that would still allow markets to help
determine currency levels.  The world’s most-traded currencies have been set mainly by
markets since the postwar Bretton Woods system of fixed
currencies broke down in the early 1970s. Volcker, 84, witnessed
the collapse when he was at the U.S. Treasury Department in
1973. He later went on to helm the Fed from 1979 to 1987.  “The central idea is that individual nations would direct
their interventions and if necessary their economic policies to
defending the ‘equilibrium rate,’” Volcker said in his speech
at a conference organized by the Fung Global Institute. “One
more radical suggestion is that aggressive intervention by
trading partners might be authorized by an international
authority to promote consistency.”  Dimon’s Position  Volcker also said in the interview that  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ’s membership on the
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s board of directors created
“an appearance of a problem.” He said European policy makers
should be more decisive and must safeguard the stability of
Spain and  Italy . The Fed will need to “pull more rabbits out of
the hat” if the euro crisis affects U.S. activity, he said.  Since the 2007-2009 global credit crunch, world financial
regulators have focused on capital adequacy and risk management
at banks. The global monetary and financial system hasn’t
maintained financial stability as well as the Bretton Woods
system and needs to be reformed, according to a  Bank of England 
research paper published in December.  ‘A Little Discipline’  “We need some system to employ a little discipline so that
you don’t have China running trillion-dollar surpluses or the
U.S. is running a $5-trillion deficit,” Volcker said. “They
are both happy doing it. They both thought it was in their
individual interest but until it breaks down and when it breaks
down, you have a big problem.”  China’s foreign-exchange reserves have almost doubled over
the past four years, reaching a world record $3.3 trillion at
the end of March, central bank data show. The increase stems
from trade surpluses and China’s efforts to stem appreciation in
the  yuan , a policy that’s prompted the European Union and
countries including the U.S. to accuse it of giving exporters an
unfair advantage.  Possibilities for forcing countries to correct imbalances
may include stronger surveillance by the  International Monetary
Fund  or financial penalties and incentives, Volcker said. He
also urged the study of a multiple-currency reserve system.  Market Turmoil  Europe ’s debt crisis is in its third year and the specter
of Greece leaving the euro area has stoked concern the turmoil
may intensify, imperiling global growth and undermining
financial markets. The nation holds a second election on June
17, following an inconclusive vote this month that buoyed a
group opposed to an international bailout seeking to keep  Greece 
in the euro region.  About 386 billion euros ($479 billion) in aid commitments
for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , the establishing of a larger
rescue fund as well as 214 billion euros in bond purchases and
more than 1 trillion euros in cheap bank loans from the  European
Central Bank  have failed to placate investors.  “The wall has not effectively been built as strong enough
at this point,” Volcker said. “Time is passing, it’s very
important to protect Spain and Italy in particular. You wish
they could be a little more decisive. When Europe has a problem,
so does the world.”  In the U.S., Volcker said banks are in a “last-ditch
fight” to soften a rule named after him that might crimp their
profits.  Goldman Sachs  The Fed, Securities and Exchange Commission and Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. are among regulators drafting the
Volcker rule to limit bets banks can make with their own funds.
JPMorgan, with other Wall Street banks including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , have lobbied regulators to expand
exemptions included in a draft proposal released last year.  The Volcker rule allows banks to continue activities that
are considered hedging, as well as to serve as market-makers,
accepting risk or holding shares of trades to facilitate client
orders. It was included in the 2010 regulatory overhaul as a way
to keep banks from putting federally insured deposits at risk.  The banks have argued that the Volcker rule is so broad and
poorly defined it will force them to dump business lines and
could actually increase risks for their clients.  Dimon announced this month that his firm suffered at least
$2 billion in trading losses tied to positions on synthetic
credit securities. Losses mounted as JPMorgan tried to mitigate
transactions designed to hedge credit exposure.  “There is a very real problem with the complexities of
modern finance and the enormous size of some of these
institutions,” Volcker said. “It may be asking too much for
any CEO to know what’s going on in some very complicated
operations in the far reaches of the banks, which says they have
to have a good control system and good risk management.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  