-- Volvo Construction Chief Sees No Southern Europe Market Recovery
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-05-31T12:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/volvo-construction-chief-sees-no-southern-europe-market-recovery.html
Volvo AB (VOLVB) ’s construction-equipment
unit, the world’s third-largest maker of wheel loaders and
excavators, sees no recovery in sight in southern Europe, chief
Patrick Olney said.  “I don’t see any signs” of improvement in the
construction markets in Spain,  Portugal ,  Italy  or Greece, Olney
said in a phone interview yesterday. “The market collapsed in
2009 and has not shown any recovery since then.”  Volvo Construction Equipment’s business in those countries
dropped more than 80 percent in the financial crisis that began
in 2008, he said from the unit’s Brussels headquarters.  The division, Volvo’s second-biggest after heavy trucks,
more than doubled its North American sales in the first quarter
and is a market leader in China, where it has a joint venture
with local company  Shandong Lingong Construction Machinery Co. 
Volvo competes globally against bigger rivals  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,
based in Peoria,  Illinois , and  Komatsu Ltd (6301)  in Tokyo.  Southern Europe’s troubled economies so far haven’t
affected customers in the rest of Europe, said Olney, 43, who
got promoted to lead the business last year when former division
chief Olof Persson was named Volvo CEO.  “I can’t say there’s been a psychological impact on the
customer level that we’ve seen,” he said. “Our customers are
very practical people. They look at the work they have in front
of them, and they make decisions based on the work, availability
of financing and a number of other individual factors.”  North American Rebound  North America is benefiting from “tremendous pent-up
demand” to replace aging equipment, along with a growing
economy and more housing starts, he said.  Olney reiterated Volvo’s forecasts from April 26 that the
total North American construction-equipment market will grow
between 15 percent and 25 percent in 2012, more than the 10
percent to 20 percent the company expects for Europe.  “One key now for Volvo is whether  North America , which was
very strong in the first quarter, will continue to grow,”
Christer Magnergard, an analyst with DNB Bank ASA in Oslo who
recommends that investors sell Volvo’s shares, said by phone.
“It looks that way.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 