-- Wal-Mart Board Faces Angry Investors at Annual Meeting: Retail
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-05-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/wal-mart-board-faces-angry-investors-at-annual-meeting-retail.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s (WMT)  June 1 annual
meeting will feature Aerosmith and Cheap Trick as the warmup
acts. The real entertainment starts when shareholders vote
whether to re-elect the company’s board.  In recent days, one pension fund after another has vowed to
vote against some or all directors in the wake of allegations
that executives bribed Mexican officials to open stores faster.
All 16 members of the board, including Chief Executive Officer
 Mike Duke  and Chairman Rob Walton, are up for election. Adding
to the pressure, the U.S. is weighing whether to charge
executives with crimes that could bring jail time.  The New York City Pension Fund plans to vote against five
board members because “you have a founder-controlled company
with a set of directors who meet the test of independence but
have ties to the company,” said  Michael Garland , Executive
Director of  Corporate Governance  for the  New York  City
Comptroller’s Office, which manages the fund.  “Outside shareholders need truly independent directors,”
Garland said in a phone interview. “There is a question about
proper and ethical conduct of certain executives.”  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , said that last
November it voluntarily disclosed potential violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act to the U.S. Justice Department and
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The company said that
outside law firms are helping the U.S. probe the bribery claims,
and it’s reviewing its compliance program worldwide.  Perception Impact  The case came under scrutiny after The New York Times
reported April 21 that Wal-Mart covered up an internal probe
begun in 2005 after a company lawyer said he funneled  bribes to
Mexican officials. On May 17, Wal-Mart said the “ongoing media
and governmental interest” could impact the perception of “its
role as a corporate citizen.”  On May 22, the California State Teachers’ Retirement
System, which holds less than 1 percent of Wal-Mart’s shares,
said it would vote against the entire board and questioned
whether directors can be counted upon to oversee the bribery
investigation.  “Calstrs does not have confidence the current board has
the independence and leadership needed to address these
difficult issues,” Calstrs Chief Executive Officer Jack Ehnes
said in a statement.  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , which
also owns less than 1 percent of outstanding shares, said it
plans to vote against the re-election of nine directors,
including Walton, Duke and his predecessor  Lee Scott .  While the board vote will be largely symbolic because the
Walton family controls 47 percent of Wal-Mart shares, the
pressure on the company will probably intensify.  Cracking Down  The federal government has been cracking down harder on
overseas bribery since the  Bush administration , when the  Justice
Department  began aggressively targeting executives.  “Federal prosecutors have said they don’t want to use the
organization to be a scapegoat,” said Brandon Garrett, a law
professor at the  University of Virginia . “The last thing the
government wants to do is fine the company and see all of the
individuals go unpunished.”  The Justice Department has suffered setbacks in its efforts
to prosecute individuals. Still, of at least 93 people charged
from 2005 to 2012, prosecutors won convictions against at least
47 of them, according to the law firm Shearman & Sterling LLP.
The 31 defendants who’ve been sentenced got an average of 2
years and 2 months in prison.  Prosecutors are charging higher-level executives even if
they aren’t accused of directly making a bribe, said  John Kelly ,
an attorney with law firm Bass, Berry and Sims who once worked
for the Justice Department. If they allowed the bribes to
continue, they could be prosecuted, he said.  Illegal Activity  The difficult part of these cases is proving that
executives knew company managers were engaging in illegal
activity and failed to take action or looked the other way,
according to Kelly.  “You have to have proof of them ignoring the truth and
that’s difficult,” Kelly said.  Because these investigations move slowly, some Wal-Mart
executives could be retired before charges are filed. It took
the Justice Department three years from the time it settled a
case against Siemens AG to charge individual executives.  Even if Wal-Mart executives aren’t charged, the company may
have to remove anyone involved to maintain credibility with
investors and auditors, said Will Barry, an attorney with
Washington law firm Richards Kibbe and Orbe.  “It’s possible that external auditors aren’t comfortable
accepting representations from these people,” Barry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in  Detroit  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 