-- Wal-Mart Joins Companies Cutting Ties With ’Free-Market’ Group
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-06-01T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/wal-mart-joins-companies-cutting-ties-with-free-market-group.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  is the latest
company to withdraw from the American Legislative Exchange
Council, a corporate-funded public policy group under attack for
pushing voter-ID and “Stand Your Ground” state laws.  About a dozen companies, including  Coca-Cola Inc. (KO)  and  Kraft
Foods Inc. (KFT) , previously ended their membership in the group under
pressure from ALEC opponents.  “Historically, we found value in working with ALEC and its
legislative members on issues related to tax, commerce, and
economic development,” Maggie Sans, a Wal-Mart vice president,
said in a letter to ALEC.  “Previously, we expressed our concerns about ALEC’s
decision to weigh in on issues that stray from its core mission
’to advance the Jeffersonian principles of free markets,’” Sans
said. “We feel that the divide between these activities and our
purpose as a business has become too wide. To that end, we are
suspending our membership in ALEC.”  An ALEC spokeswoman, Kaitlyn Buss, said yesterday the group
was disappointed in Wal-Mart’s decision.  “ALEC companies are being targeted with smear campaigns
that produce manufactured outrage and the façade of grassroots
support,” Buss said in a statement. “In reality, these groups
are bankrolled by extreme liberal front groups and union leaders
and their goal is to simply demonize anyone who rejects their
big-government agenda. ALEC will not be silenced because our
free market, limited government ideas are needed more than ever
and are at the core of every well-run state in the country.”  Working through ALEC, corporate representatives belonging
to the group have helped state lawmakers draft bills that the
legislators then try to enact.  Voter ID Laws  ALEC has been under fire for its support of state laws such
as requiring voters to show photo IDs before casting ballots and
the so-called Stand Your Ground measures that allow individuals
to use deadly force if they feel threatened.  George Zimmerman, a community watch volunteer who shot and
killed unarmed teenager Trayvon Martin in  Florida  earlier this
year, has claimed self-defense under such a law. He is charged
with second-degree murder.  Corporate membership in ALEC costs up to $25,000 a year.
Sans was secretary of ALEC’s Private Enterprise Board, whose
members work for 21 companies or trade associations.  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  are among the companies with representatives
on the board.  Tax-Exempt Status  Washington-based Common Cause, an advocacy group, has asked
the  Internal Revenue Service  to investigate whether ALEC was
entitled to its tax-exempt status, charging that it has
functioned as a lobbying organization.  “ALEC and its corporate backers have built an extremely
successful lobbying shop under false pretenses,” Common Cause
President Bob Edgar, a former Democratic U.S. representative
from  Pennsylvania , said in a statement yesterday.  “They wine and dine and write legislation for our elected
officials behind closed doors at posh resorts and guide that
legislation into law in the statehouses,” Edgar said. “Then
they call themselves a charity and ask the taxpayers to
subsidize their work by bestowing a  tax exemption .  He praised Wal-Mart for making “a smart decision to end
its involvement in this charade.”  Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart was one of several
companies funding both ALEC and the Congressional Black Caucus
Foundation.  Black Caucus  Members of the black caucus have said voter-ID laws
suppress minority voting. The Brennan Center for Justice at  New
York  University said 25 percent of voting-age blacks, 16 percent
of voting-age Hispanics and 15 percent of voting-age Americans
in households earning less than $35,000 lack the sort of
approved IDs required by the laws.  In April, ALEC announced it was disbanding the  task force 
that dealt with voter-ID and gun rights measures and would focus
exclusively on economic issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 