-- War Stops Congo Conflict Minerals Progress, Global Witness Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-05-31T12:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/war-stops-congo-conflict-minerals-progress-global-witness-says.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo’s
progress blocking the trade of so-called conflict minerals is
under threat from widespread fighting in the country’s east,
U.K. advocacy group Global Witness said today.  Congolese soldiers who deserted the army last month are
experienced smugglers of tin ore and gold and will turn to the
illicit mineral trade to support their rebellion, the group said
in a report published today. The fighting has made it
“difficult to manage” programs monitoring eastern Congo’s
mineral trade, Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said by mobile-
phone message today in response to the report.  “This latest upheaval may put a dent in the confidence of
international buyers considering sourcing ores” from eastern
Congo,  Global Witness  said. “This, needless to say, would have
negative implications for the nascent efforts to establish a
trade in conflict-free minerals.”  For more than a decade, armed groups and some members of
the Congolese army have funded their rebellions and enriched
themselves through mineral sales. Congo’s Mines Ministry is
trying to implement tracing programs to ensure trading doesn’t
fund conflict. Eastern Congo has deposits of tin ore, gold,
tungsten, and coltan, an ore used in electronics.  General Deserts  In recent years, Congolese General Bosco Ntaganda has
controlled many of the area’s smuggling networks, according to
United Nations reports in 2010 and 2011. Ntaganda, wanted by the
 International Criminal Court  for  war crimes , deserted the army
last month with about 300 soldiers amid rumors of his impending
arrest. Around 100,000 people have fled fighting between the
army and rebels allied to him, according to the UN.  Most Western companies have stopped buying minerals from
eastern Congo because of the conflict, the North Kivu provincial
mines ministry says. Congo’s share of world tin sales dropped
from about 4 percent in 2008 to 2 percent last year, according
to the  U.S. Geological Survey . Earlier this month, Kabwelulu
suspended two suppliers of tin ore to  China  based in North Kivu
for allegedly buying minerals from mines that weren’t approved
as “conflict-free.”  Rwanda Routes  Neighboring Rwanda is a primary transit point for smuggled
minerals, Global Witness said, in spite of tagging and tracing
programs the country has in place. Ntaganda was born in Rwanda
and one of his former rebel groups was supported by the country,
according to the UN.  “Research conducted by Global Witness in March 2012
revealed that large quantities of untagged Congolese minerals
are making their way into Rwandan supply chains, often in full
view of the Congolese and Rwandan authorities,” the lobby group
said in its report.  Michael Biryabarema, director of  Rwanda ’s Geology and Mines
Authority, did not immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment and three calls to his mobile phone did not connect.  In January, the Authority gave six-month suspensions to
four Rwandan mineral traders for dealing in untagged material,
Rwanda’s New Times reported in March, citing Biryabarema.  The country’s foreign minister, Louise Mushikiwabo, denied
Rwanda was supporting the new rebel group in a May 28 statement.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryson Hull at 
 bhull5@bloomberg.net  