-- Western Asset Funds to Drop Legg Mason Name in Sales Push
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-05-31T18:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/western-asset-funds-to-drop-legg-mason-name-in-sales-push.html
Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , the  money manager 
with 18 straight quarters of redemptions, said U.S mutual funds
run by its Western Asset Management Co. unit will shed the name
of the parent company as it seeks to boost sales to individual
investors.  The funds will only use the Western Asset name as part of a
rebranding effective Aug. 1, according to filings the Baltimore-
based firm made today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Legg Mason decided to make the switch as part of a
broader strategy to make the funds more competitive, according
to Maria Rosati, a spokeswoman for Legg Mason.  “We’re just really trying to make sure that the reputation
and the satisfaction that we’ve delivered to our institutional
clients is easily transferred to the retail clients,” Jim Flick, director of global client service and marketing of the
bond division, said in a telephone interview. By using the
Western Asset name, “we will be able to showcase our
capabilities to a broader audience.”  Western Asset, Legg Mason’s largest investment unit, is
trying to stand out as performance at its funds has rebounded
since the 2008 financial crisis and its corporate parent is
seeking to improve results at other investment affiliates.
 Nelson Peltz , the activist investor who joined Legg Mason’s
board in October 2009 after investor redemptions and losses
related to its money funds had sent the stock tumbling 63
percent in the prior two years, said last year that he expected
Western Asset to lead the firm’s turnaround.  The unit had about $447 billion in assets as of March 31.  Core Plus  The $9.4 billion  Western Asset Core Plus Bond Fund (WACPX)  has
returned 3.8 percent this year, beating 86 percent of competing
fixed-income funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Legg Mason’s assets declined 5.1 percent this year as of
March 30 compared with a year earlier to $643.3 billion. Bond
assets, managed mostly by the Western Asset unit, fell 0.1
percent to $356.1 billion, the firm said. Legg Mason’s investors
pulled $2.8 billion from bond funds and $4.9 billion from stocks
during the first quarter while depositing $2.8 billion into Legg
Mason’s money funds.  Last quarter the firm completed a plan designed to save
$130 million to $150 million a year through a combination of job
cuts and moving certain technology functions to investment
units.  Cutting Costs  Legg Mason is still looking for ways to cut costs and the
changes to the Western Asset funds are partially driven by a
desire to make the firm as efficient as possible and to
streamline redundancies, said Macrae Sykes, an analyst with
Gabelli & Co. in Rye,  New York . Gabelli and its affiliates own
about 3.4 percent of Legg Mason’s shares.  Other changes to the funds managed by Western Asset include
adding more share classes and modifying investment strategies,
steps that are likely to be completed by October, Flick said.  Legg Mason’s affiliates, which include stock-fund managers
Royce & Associates and ClearBridge Advisors, have autonomy over
investment decisions while relying on the corporate parent for
strategic advice and sales support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  