-- West Coast Gasoline Weakens as Refinery Restarts Boost Stocks
-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 2012-05-31T21:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/west-coast-gasoline-weakens-as-refinery-restarts-boost-stocks.html
California-blend gasoline fell
against futures as stockpiles of the fuel grew after refineries
in the state returned to service after maintenance shutdowns.
Premiums in  Portland , Oregon, retreated from record highs.  California-blend, or Carbob, gasoline in San Francisco
weakened 4.75 cents to a premium of 19.25 cents a gallon versus
gasoline futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Los Angeles  Carbob fell 4.75 cents to a premium of 13.25
cents a gallon. Both premiums are the smallest since May 22. The
average retail price for regular gas in the Los Angeles area was
$4.285 a gallon as of 6 a.m. local time, 4.7 cents less than
last week, the Automobile Club of  Southern California  said.  “Prices continue to fall from the spike that occurred
earlier this month, indicating that supply issues in California
are being addressed or are at least not as bad as feared,”
Jeffrey Spring, a spokesman for the Auto Club, said in a
statement e-mailed from Los Angeles. “The gas-price drops have
been smaller in recent days, so it’s uncertain how long the
downward trend will continue.”  The  California Energy Commission  released a report
yesterday showing that stocks of Carbob increased 12 percent
last week from the previous week to 5.13 million barrels.  BP Plc (BP/)  returned to normal rates May 29 at its 266,000-
barrel-a-day plant at Cherry Point, Washington’s largest
refinery, according to a person familiar with operations at the
plant. BP shut the refinery after a Feb. 17 fire and moved up a
maintenance turnaround to coincide with repairs.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in Portland, Oregon,
plunged 42 cents to a premium of 42.5 cents a gallon versus New
York futures. The fuel rose to its highest-ever level of 91
cents above futures May 23.  Low-sulfur diesel in Portland weakened 3.5 cents to a 15-
cent-a-gallon premium to New York heating oil futures.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel weakened 0.38 cent in Los
Angeles to 5.50 cents above futures. In  San Francisco  it was
unchanged at a premium of 7 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  