-- Westinghouse Solar, Zep Settle Patent Dispute Over Panels
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-05-31T17:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/westinghouse-solar-zep-settle-patent-dispute-over-panels.html
Westinghouse Solar Inc. (WEST)  and  Zep Solar
Inc.  said they have settled a patent dispute over designs to
reduce the cost of attaching solar panels to roofs.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed. The settlement, which
covers civil suits and a case pending before the U.S.
International Trade Commission in  Washington , extends to all
customers, suppliers and licensees of the companies, they said
in a joint statement.  Westinghouse Solar had accused Zep of infringing patents
related to ways to reduce the amount of hardware and labor
needed to install solar panels. The companies were vying to have
their designs adopted by more installers to take advantage of
the increased popularity of the $8.4 billion U.S.  market  for
solar energy in homes and businesses.  Reducing installation costs is important because they have
remained stable even as the price of solar panels dropped. That
has created a barrier for some homeowners even with tax breaks,
the Solar Energy Industries Association, a trade group based in
Washington, has said.  Westinghouse, formerly Akeena Solar Inc., sought to ban
U.S. imports of  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ)  panels, mainly made by the
Kitchener, Ontario-based company in  China  using the Zep design.
The Westinghouse Solar design, known as Andalay, is used by
 Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)   The dispute dates to 2009, when Westinghouse Solar sued Zep
in federal court. It filed the ITC case in October.  The case before the commission is In the Matter of Certain
Integrated Solar Power Systems, 337-811, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington). The civil cases are Akeena Solar
Inc. v. Zep Solar Inc., 09cv5040, and Zep Solar Inc. v.
Westinghouse Solar Inc., 11cv3800, both U.S. District Court for
the Northern District of  California  ( San Jose ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  