-- Two Senior SEC Investigators to Leave Agency for Private Firms
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-05-31T20:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/two-senior-sec-investigators-to-leave-agency-for-private-firms.html
Two senior U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission investigators are stepping down this month
to join private law firms, leaving vacancies atop two units
formed in 2010 in an overhaul of the enforcement division.  Robert Kaplan , co-chief of a 75-person unit that
investigates misconduct at hedge funds and private-equity firms,
will join Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in Washington as a partner on
June 5, the firm said in a statement today. Thomas Sporkin, who
heads an SEC group tasked with vetting and handling tips, is
moving to BuckleySandler LLP in the coming weeks, according to a
statement by that firm.  SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  enlisted Kaplan and
Sporkin two years ago as part of an effort to develop
specialized expertise and catch frauds earlier. Khuzami hasn’t
publicly announced who will fill the vacant posts.  “My sincere thanks go to Rob and Tom for their many years
of exemplary service to the SEC and to investors everywhere,”
Khuzami said today in an e-mailed statement. “The deep bench of
talent at the SEC ensures that our strong and proactive
enforcement efforts will continue uninterrupted.”  Kaplan, who holds degrees from  New York University  and
 Columbia University , joined the SEC in 1995 as a staff attorney
and later became a litigator in the trial unit. At Debevoise, he
will advise investment adviser clients on enforcement and
compliance matters, the firm said.  “Debevoise is particularly excited to bring our clients
Rob’s deep understanding of the securities compliance and
enforcement issues facing private-equity and hedge funds, as
well as other alternative investment funds,” Michael Blair, the
firm’s presiding partner, said in the statement.  Market Intelligence  Sporkin, a 20-year veteran of the SEC’s enforcement
division, helped create the Office of Market Intelligence and
the Whistleblower Office mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act. He will
join BuckleySandler June 18, the firm said.  Sporkin “brings significant expertise, particularly with
respect to federal civil and criminal enforcement and securities
investigations, the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, Dodd-Frank and
other whistleblower” actions, Andrew Sandler, BuckleySandler’s
chairman, said in the firm’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  