-- Woman Who Couldn’t Be Intimidated by Citigroup Wins $31 Million
-- B y   B o b   I v r y
-- 2012-05-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/woman-who-couldn-t-be-intimidated-by-citigroup-wins-31-million.html
Sherry Hunt never expected to be a
senior manager at a Wall Street bank. She was a country girl,
raised in rural  Michigan  by a dad who taught her to fish and a
mom who showed her how to find wild mushrooms. She listened to
Marty Robbins and Buck Owens on the radio and came to believe
that God has a bigger plan, that everything happens for a
reason.  She got married at 16 and didn’t go to college. After she
had her first child at 17, she needed a job. A friend helped her
find one in 1975, processing home loans at a small bank in
Alaska. Over the next 30 years, Hunt moved up the ladder to
mortgage-banking positions in Indiana, Minnesota and Missouri,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its July issue.  On her days off, when she wasn’t fishing with her husband,
Jonathan, she rode her horse, Cody, in Wild West shows. She
sometimes dressed up as the legendary cowgirl Annie Oakley,
firing blanks from a vintage rifle to entertain an audience. She
liked the mortgage business, liked that she was helping people
buy houses.  In November 2004, Hunt, now 55, joined  Citigroup (C)  Inc. as a
vice president in the mortgage unit. It looked like a great
career move. The housing market was  booming , and the New York-
based bank, the sixth-largest lender in the U.S. at the time,
was responsible for 3.5 percent of all home loans. Hunt
supervised 65 mortgage underwriters at CitiMortgage Inc.’s
sprawling headquarters in O’Fallon, Missouri, 45 minutes west of
St. Louis.  Avoiding Fraud  Hunt’s team was responsible for protecting Citigroup from
fraud and bad investments. She and her colleagues inspected
loans Citi wanted to buy from outside brokers and lenders to see
whether they met the bank’s standards. The mortgages had to have
properly signed paperwork, verifiable borrower income and
realistic appraisals.  Citi would vouch for the quality of these loans when it
sold them to investors or approved them for government mortgage
insurance.  Investor demand was so strong for mortgages packaged into
securities that Citigroup couldn’t process them fast enough. The
Citi stamp of approval told investors that the bank would stand
behind the mortgages if borrowers quit paying.  At the mortgage-processing factory in O’Fallon, Hunt was
working on an assembly line that helped inflate a housing bubble
whose implosion would shake the world. The O’Fallon mortgage
machinery was moving too fast to check every loan, Hunt says.  Phony Appraisals  By 2006, the bank was buying mortgages from outside lenders
with doctored tax forms, phony appraisals and missing
signatures, she says. It was Hunt’s job to identify these
defects, and she did, in regular reports to her bosses.  Executives buried her findings, Hunt says, before, during
and after the financial crisis, and even into 2012.  In March 2011, more than two years after Citigroup took $45
billion in bailouts from the U.S. government and  billions more 
from the  Federal Reserve  -- more in total than any other  U.S.
bank  -- Jeffery Polkinghorne, an O’Fallon executive in charge of
loan quality, asked Hunt and a colleague to stay in a conference
room after a meeting.  The encounter with Polkinghorne was brief and tense, Hunt
says. The number of loans classified as defective would have to
fall, he told them, or it would be “your asses on the line.”  Hunt says it was clear what Polkinghorne was asking -- and
she wanted no part of it.  ‘I Wouldn’t Play Along’  “All a dishonest person had to do was change the reports to
make things look better than they were,” Hunt says. “I wouldn’t
play along.”  Instead, she took her employer to court -- and won. In
August 2011, five months after the meeting with Polkinghorne,
Hunt sued Citigroup in Manhattan federal court, accusing its
home-loan division of systematically violating U.S. mortgage
regulations.  The U.S.  Justice Department  decided to join her suit in
January. Citigroup didn’t dispute any of Hunt’s facts; it didn’t
mount a defense in public or in court. On Feb. 15, 2012, the
bank agreed to pay $158.3 million to the U.S. government to
settle the case.  Citigroup admitted approving loans for government insurance
that didn’t qualify under Federal Housing Administration rules.
Prosecutors kept open the possibility of bringing criminal
charges, without specifying targets.  ‘Pure Myth’  Citigroup behaving badly as late as 2012 shows how a big
bank hasn’t yet absorbed the lessons of the credit crisis
despite billions of dollars in bailouts, says  Neil Barofsky ,
former special inspector general of the Troubled Asset Relief
Program.  “This case demonstrates that the notion that the bailed-out
banks have somehow found God and have reformed their ways in the
aftermath of the financial crisis is pure myth,” he says.  As a reward for blowing the whistle on her employer, Hunt,
the country girl turned banker, got $31 million out of the
settlement paid by Citigroup.  Hunt still remembers her first impressions of
CitiMortgage’s O’Fallon headquarters, a complex of three
concrete-and-glass buildings surrounded by manicured lawns and
vast parking lots. Inside are endless rows of cubicles where
3,800 employees trade e-mails and conduct conference calls. Hunt
says at first she felt like a mouse in a maze.  “You only see people’s faces when someone brings in
doughnuts and the smell gets them peeking over the tops of their
cubicles,” she says.  Jean Charities  Over time, she came to appreciate the camaraderie. Every
month, workers conducted the so-called Jean Charities. Employees
contributed $20 for the privilege of wearing jeans every day,
with the money going to local nonprofit organizations. With so
many workers, it added up to $25,000 a month.  “Citi is full of wonderful people, conscientious people,”
Hunt says.  Those people worked on different teams to process
mortgages, all of them focused on keeping home loans moving
through the system. One team bought loans from brokers and other
lenders. Another team, called underwriters, made sure loan
paperwork was complete and the mortgages met the bank’s and the
government’s guidelines.  Yet another group did spot-checks on loans already
purchased. It was such a high-volume business that one group’s
assignment was simply to keep loans moving on the assembly line.  Powerful Incentive  Still another unit sold loans to  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac 
and Ginnie Mae, the government-controlled companies that bundled
them into securities for sale to investors. Those were the types
of securities that blew up in 2007, igniting a global financial
crisis.  Workers had a powerful incentive to push mortgages through
the process even if flaws were found: compensation. The pay of
CitiMortgage employees all the way up to the division’s chief
executive officer depended on a high percentage of approved
loans, the government’s complaint says.  By 2006, Hunt’s team was processing $50 billion in loans
that Citi-Mortgage bought from hundreds of mortgage companies.
Because her unit couldn’t possibly review them all, they checked
a sample.  When a mortgage wasn’t up to federal standards -- which
could be any error ranging from an unsigned document to a false
income statement or a hyped-up appraisal -- her team labeled the
loan as defective.  Missing Documentation  In late 2007, Hunt’s group estimated that about 60 percent
of the mortgages Citigroup was buying and selling were missing
some form of documentation. Hunt says she took her concerns to
her boss, Richard Bowen III.  Bowen, 64, is a religious man, a former Air Force Reserve
Officer Training Corps cadet at Texas Tech University in Lubbock
with an attention to detail that befits his background as a
certified public accountant. When he saw the magnitude of the
mortgage defects, Bowen says he prayed for guidance.  In a Nov. 3, 2007,  e-mail , he alerted Citigroup executives,
including  Robert Rubin , then chairman of Citigroup’s executive
committee and a former  Treasury secretary ; Chief Financial
Officer  Gary Crittenden ; the bank’s senior risk officer; and its
chief auditor.  Bowen put the words “URGENT -- READ IMMEDIATELY --
FINANCIAL ISSUES” in the subject line.  “The reason for this urgent e-mail concerns breakdowns of
internal controls and resulting significant but possibly
unrecognized financial losses existing within our organization,”
Bowen wrote. “We continue to be significantly out of
compliance.”  No Change  There were no noticeable changes in the mortgage machinery
as a result of  Bowen’s warning , Hunt says.  Just a week after Bowen sent his e-mail, Sherry and
Jonathan were driving their Toyota Camry about 55 miles (89
kilometers) per hour on four-lane Providence Road in Columbia,
 Missouri , when a driver in a Honda Civic hit them head-on.
Sherry broke a foot and her sternum. Jonathan broke an arm and
his sternum.  Doctors used four bones harvested from a cadaver and
titanium screws to stabilize his neck.  “You come out of an experience like that with a commitment
to making the most of the time you have and making the world a
better place,” Sherry says.  Three months after the accident, attorneys from  Paul,
Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP , a New York law firm
representing Citigroup, interviewed Hunt. She had no idea at the
time that it was related to Bowen’s complaint, she says.  Home Computer  The lawyers’ questions made her search her memory for
details of loans and conversations with colleagues, she says.
She decided to take notes from that time forward on a
spreadsheet she kept on her home computer.  Bowen’s e-mail is now part of the archive of the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission, a panel created by Congress in 2009.
Citigroup’s  response  to the commission, FCIC records show, came
from  Brad Karp , chairman of  Paul Weiss .  He said Citigroup had reviewed Bowen’s issues, fired a
supervisor and changed its underwriting system, without
providing specifics.  One change resulting from Bowen’s e-mail affected Bowen
himself. He went from managing 220 people to overseeing two,
according to the FCIC report. By January 2009, Bowen no longer
worked for Citigroup, he told the FCIC.  “More people haven’t come forward because they saw what
happened to me,” says Bowen, who’s now an accounting and finance
professor at the  University of Texas at Dallas . He says Hunt is
the exception. “Sherry is an absolutely fantastic lady who knows
what she’s doing. She has a conscience. I have the highest
regard for her.”  One Person  Bowen declined to comment on the circumstances of his
departure from Citigroup. The bank denies any retaliation
against him.  After Bowen left, Hunt had only one person she could
confide in: her husband. She and Jonathan, 51, met in 1998 at a
 Minnesota  casino. He trained search-and-rescue dogs for a
living. They share a love of animals, especially horses. She
says she was attracted to his sense of humor. He would quote
country songs to make her laugh. They were married in 1999.  When Sherry worked for U.S. Bancorp in Missouri, she and
Jonathan bred and raised horses. As members of the  Old West
Society of Minnesota , the couple performed in re-enactments of
19th-century events, such as the shootout at the O.K. Corral.  Sometimes she dressed up as a society woman, wearing a
bustle. When she played Annie Oakley, she wore a buckskin outfit
with a bullwhip coiled around her shoulder. She galloped into
the arena on her horse -- but never too fast, her husband says.  ‘Don’t Get Along’  “Sherry and speed on a horse don’t get along,” he says with
a grin.  Every workday for eight years before winning her lawsuit,
Sherry Hunt left their house on its 10-acre (4-hectare) lot and
drove along a dirt road where cows and horses grazed in
pastures. She turned onto a two-lane county highway that passed
over a river bridge barely wide enough for two cars. About 45
minutes later, she’d arrive at the office.  After Bowen went public with her findings, Hunt says she
was transferred to the quality-control group on April 1, 2008.
She went from supervising 65 people to managing none.  “What I saw there was 10 times worse,” she says. “Every
time I turned over a rock, I found a snake.”  One place where she uncovered flaws was in the fraud
prevention and investigation group. That’s where Hunt’s team
shipped  questionable loans , with issues such as obviously forged
signatures, whited-out income lines on tax forms or misspelled
bank names on borrower bank statements.  No Notification  The group was supposed to investigate the mortgages for
fraud and notify the FHA within a month when it found it. In
November 2009, Hunt says, she came across a list of about 1,000
loans that the quality-control team had identified for possible
fraud.  The fraud prevention and investigation group had left some
of the mortgages in the queue for more than two years without
checking them, Hunt says. Not one notification went to the FHA
before July 2011, when the  U.S. Attorney’s Office in Manhattan 
issued a subpoena to the O’Fallon office, the government’s
complaint says.  In 2009, different teams began feuding, internal e-mails
made public in the Justice Department case show. That’s when
CitiMortgage created yet another team whose mission was to
challenge the findings of Hunt’s quality-control group and
persuade her and her colleagues to change their decisions on the
suitability of loans.  ‘Brute Force’  In November 2010, Ross Leckie, a senior director of
CitiMortgage’s retail bank mortgage unit, sent an e-mail
ordering his staff to meet its goal of a maximum 5 percent
defect rate on home loans. Quality-control employees had
identified 10 loans with severe flaws from a pool of 138, Leckie
said, for a rate of 7.25 percent.  “Drive this rate down by brute force,” he wrote. “We need
three loans to be removed to get to 5.07 percent.”  CitiMortgage defect rates did plummet, according to notes
Hunt kept. It wasn’t because there were fewer bad mortgages, she
says.  “It’s because they were beating us up over the quality-
control reports,” she says.  In late 2010, Hunt began studying the new federal whistle-
blower rules that Congress had just enacted in July as part of
the  Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act .  ‘You’ve Had Enough’  The stress had been mounting for Sherry and Jon. Conflicts
at the office, the physical pain that lingered from the car
wreck and growing anxiety over Citi’s bad mortgages were taking
a toll. The Hunts say the laughter they often shared had faded.  Sherry says she drew inspiration from a country song by
Rascal Flatts called “Stand.”  “Decide you’ve had enough,” it goes. “You get mad. You get
strong. Wipe your hands, shake it off, then you stand.”  Hunt says she pinned the lyrics to her cubicle wall.  “It made me stronger,” she says.  Hunt needed the strength on March 22, 2011. That’s the day
Polkinghorne, who was three levels above her in the chain of
command, called her and a colleague aside and told them their
asses were on the line if the defect rates didn’t fall.  Polkinghorne couldn’t be reached for comment, and Citigroup
declined to make him available for an interview.  That night, she and Jon agreed the time had come for her to
take a stand. So Hunt decided to follow the first step
prescribed by Dodd-Frank: formally complaining to the company.
The prospect kept her awake at night.  ‘My Life Savings’  “I was ready to give up my career and my life savings to
get this done,” she says.  On March 29, 2011, Hunt walked into CitiMortgage’s human
resources department in O’Fallon and told them everything: how
the bank had been routinely buying and selling bad mortgages for
years, how the fraud unit wasn’t doing its job and how the
quality-control people were being pressured to change their
ratings.  Whistle-blower rules mandate that Hunt had to notify the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the government regulator
that oversees Citigroup’s mortgage business, within 90 days of
reporting her concerns internally.  “I am afraid of what I know,” she wrote the SEC on May 24,
2011. “I do not want to know what I know. I have nothing to gain
from coming forward and have no hidden agenda.”  Hunt hired a lawyer, Finley Gibbs of  Rotts & Gibbs LLC  in
Columbia, Missouri. He had represented the Hunts after their car
accident. Starting on June 27, 2011, Hunt and Gibbs shared
details from her spreadsheet in four conference calls with
Justice Department investigators.  Had to Do It  The officials made no promises about whether they would
take action against Citigroup.  For two months, Sherry and Jon sweated over what could
happen if she sued Citigroup without help from the government.
They concluded she had to do it, Hunt says. On Aug. 5, 2011,
Hunt filed a false-claims complaint in U.S. District Court in
Manhattan.  “I still had to go into work,” Hunt says. Because the
complaint was sealed, no one in her office knew about it. She
pinned a postcard of Leonardo da Vinci’s  Mona Lisa  next to the
Rascal Flatts lyrics. Like Mona Lisa, Sherry Hunt had a secret.  She knew her chances of winning were slim because she
couldn’t match the resources of a big bank. Just 20 percent of
whistle-blowers get help from government prosecutors, and
without that, success is rare, according to the National
Whistleblowers Center in Washington.  A Ghost  After filing the lawsuit, Hunt says, she felt like a ghost
navigating the cubicles of CitiMortgage. Nobody knew, she says,
yet she felt vulnerable, as if she could lose her job at any
moment.  Sherry and Jon were elated on Jan. 3, 2012, when she got a
call from her lawyer: U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan
had decided to join her on behalf of the Justice Department in
the case.  There was no testimony and no trial. Citigroup admitted
wrongdoing on Feb. 15 and paid the $158.3 million to settle. In
a press release the same day, Citi said it was pleased to
resolve the matter.  “We take our quality-assurance processes seriously and have
proactively undertaken process improvements to ensure that they
are as robust as possible,” the bank wrote. The statement didn’t
mention Hunt.  Bank of America  Citigroup isn’t the only bank that’s been held accountable
for processing bad mortgages. In February, Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America Corp. settled a false-claims case
with the government for $1 billion, without admitting
wrongdoing.  In May, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG agreed to pay
$202.3 million for endorsing unqualified mortgages for FHA
insurance, and admitted wrongdoing.  What continues to set Citigroup apart is that the bank
approved flawed loans well past the 2008 financial crisis. A
battleground over loan quality persisted at CitiMortgage even as
the settlement was signed in February, the complaint says.  Just months after Citigroup settled with the Justice
Department, another big financial institution, JPMorgan Chase &
Co., announced a multibillion-dollar trading loss -- helping to
rekindle the debate over regulation of so-called too-big-to-fail
banks.  Dodd-Frank Debate  President  Barack Obama  invoked the JPMorgan loss as more
evidence of the need for tighter regulation of  Wall Street .  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, has
meanwhile continued to call for the repeal of Dodd-Frank, the
law Sherry Hunt followed when she blew the whistle on her
employer.  If Citigroup has learned anything from Sherry Hunt, it’s
not clear from the comments of CitiMortgage CEO Sanjiv Das,
who’s based in New York. He says his division does terrific
work.  “We are focused on making sure we manufacture loans the
right way,” he says. “This is a complex industry. It’s a complex
process. It takes time. We’re heading down a trajectory that I’m
incredibly proud of. Is there something that is systemically
wrong? Absolutely not. Absolutely not.”  Citigroup CEO Vikram S. Pandit declined to comment for this
story. In a video recorded in 2010 and posted by Citi on the
Internet, Pandit  pledged  that his bank was turning over a new
leaf.  ‘Making Sure We’re Honest’  “We’re going to stand for the financial services company
that practices responsible finance -- making sure we’re
transparent, making sure we’re honest, making sure we manage our
shareholders’ money prudently,” he says.  Citigroup repaid with interest the $45 billion in
government bailout loans it took in 2008, as well as all of the
money it borrowed from the Fed. The bank reported profits during
each of the nine quarters ended in March 2012. Yet shareholders
remain restive. Citi’s stock  fell  92 percent from Dec. 11, 2007,
when Pandit became CEO, to May 30.  Three weeks after Citigroup settled the Hunt case, the
bank’s board of directors awarded Pandit $14.9 million in
compensation for 2011. The pay was tied to Pandit’s push for
ethical conduct, the bank said in a March 8 regulatory filing.  The filing specifically cited Pandit’s success in improving
Citigroup’s U.S. mortgage unit. On April 16, in an unprecedented
move, Citi shareholders voted to reject Pandit’s compensation by
about 55 to 45 percent. The vote was nonbinding, and the bank’s
board of directors has final say on pay.  ‘There’s a Basis’  “We gave this guy a pretty substantial incentive award, and
there’s a basis for it,” says  Richard Parsons , who was
Citigroup’s chairman and a member of its compensation committee
until he retired in April. “Our view was, under Vikram’s
leadership, we did a pretty good job of moving Citigroup forward
in the year 2011, but there was still progress to be made.”  The amount Citigroup paid in the settlement amounts to 1.4
percent of its 2011 net income of $11.2 billion.  “It’s about more than dollars; it’s about the reputational
risk of the enterprise and how we do business,” Parsons says.
“Getting our arms around the problem and getting it fixed has
been a top priority.”  Hunt says she hopes her victory inspires others to take a
stand.  “I want people to know they can come forward,” she says.
“If I can do it, they can do it. We need to change what’s wrong
in our own backyards, and that’s how we end up changing the big
things.”  Donating Home  After they received their share of the settlement, the
Hunts decided to donate their house in Missouri to the Troy First
Baptist Church and move to a warmer climate. Sitting at the
kitchen counter, Jon calls Sherry over to watch a video on his
tablet.  It’s the Zac Brown Band doing a song called “Knee Deep,”
which is about the dream of a permanent vacation.  “Listen,” Jon tells his wife, pointing to the video. Then
he sings along: “Only worry in the world is the tide gonna reach
my chair.”  Sherry Hunt tips her head back and hoots.  Editors: Jonathan Neumann, Gail Roche  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Ivry in New York at 
 bivry@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at 
 jneumann2@bloomberg.net  