-- RG Steel Seeks Bankruptcy Protection, Plans to Sell Mills
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-05-31T20:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/wp-steel-venture-llc-files-for-bankruptcy-in-delaware.html
RG Steel LLC, the fourth-biggest U.S.
flat-rolled steelmaker, sought bankruptcy protection with a goal
of selling the company in less than two months.  RG Steel, based in Sparrows Point,  Maryland , listed assets
and debts of more than $1 billion each in Chapter 11 documents
filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .
Seven affiliates also sought protection from creditors,
including WP Steel Venture LLC.  Renco Group Inc. bought the three-plant steelmaker from
 Russia ’s  OAO Severstal (CHMF)  last year for about $1.2 billion, less
than three years after Severstal acquired it for $2.2 billion.
Renco created RG Steel to buy the mills, which can produce
8.2 million tons of steel a year.  “We have already begun a sales process aimed at maximizing
value for all stakeholders and preserving the jobs created when
RG Steel acquired these facilities,” Chief Executive Officer
John Goodwin said in a statement on RG Steel’s  website .  The steelmaker has arranged a $50 million bankruptcy loan
from a group of existing lenders to help fund operations while
it seeks a buyer. Deadlines that must be met under the loan
include a sale by July 27.  Last week, the company notified employees and the United
Steelworkers union, which represents 88 percent of RG Steel’s
4,000 employees, that it would start firing workers on June 4.  Wind Down  “There will be a lot of employees let go as we wind
down,” Bette Kovach, an RG Steel spokeswoman, said today in a
telephone interview. The plants are still operating and will be
idled “as our steelmaking orders are completed,” she said.  Joint ventures such as Mountain State Carbon LLC, RG
Steel’s 50 percent-owned venture with Severstal, won’t be
affected by the job cuts, Kovach said. Mountain State is the
third-largest U.S. coke producer with a 1.2 million-ton
capacity.  “The USW continues to meet internally and with RG
management to discuss the company’s business plans,” Dave
McCall, USW District 1’s director, said in an e-mailed
statement. Union members’ skills will be “essential for a
successful future at these facilities,” he said.  No Bidder  RG Steel doesn’t have a so-called stalking horse, or lead
bidder, for the  steel mills , according to court documents.
Interest from potential bidders “has left no doubt” the assets
are attractive as a going concern, Chief Financial Officer
Richard Caruso said in court papers.  RG Steel was forced to seek bankruptcy protection because
of “substantial liquidity problems” it began to face during
mid-2011, “driven by a rapid decline in steel prices, while raw
material prices remained at peak levels,” according to Caruso’s
filing.  Steelmakers including  U.S. Steel Corp. (X) , the country’s
biggest by volume, and  Nucor Corp. (NUE) , the largest by market value,
have warned that shipments and profitability may decline this
quarter as demand slumps.  The price of hot-rolled steel coil, a benchmark product
used in autos and appliances, has dropped 12 percent since
January to $645 a short ton, the lowest since November,
according to data from Steel Business Briefing.  China Slowdown  China , the biggest steel consumer, is forecast to expand
8.2 percent this year, the slowest growth since 1999, based on
the median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  RG Steel and its affiliates are 75 percent-owned by Renco,
with the remaining equity owned by Cerberus RG Investor LLC,
according to court papers.  The company’s operations include three main steel-producing
plants in Sparrows Point; Warren,  Ohio ; and Wheeling,  West
Virginia . The company also has facilities in Mingo Junction,
Martins Ferry and Yorkville, Ohio.  The Sparrows Point mill in Baltimore County is one of the
largest single-site steelmaking facilities in the U.S., with an
annual capacity of 3.9 million tons, according to court papers.  The Warren plant can make 1.4 million tons of crude steel a
year and specializes in high-strength, alloy and heavy-gauge
galvanized steel, court papers show. The facility in Wheeling
produces 2.9 million tons of hot and cold flat-rolled steel and
operates primarily as a steel-finishing plant, the company said.  Senior Credit  The steel-manufacturer has a senior credit facility with
two tranches of $625 million and $25 million available and
outstanding obligations of about $440 million, according to
court documents. It also has a junior credit facility with three
available tranches -- two of $62.5 million and another of $100
million. The junior facility has about $218.7 million
outstanding.  The company owes Renco about $130.5 million under two
issues of subordinated notes. Severstal holds a note with
outstanding debt of $100.7 million related to last year’s deal.  RG Steel’s largest creditors without collateral backing
their claims include Severstal U.S. Holdings II Inc., with a
claim of $36.5 million; Mountain State, with a claim of
$22.4 million; Balli Steel Plc, with a claim of $15.8 million;
and Cleveland Cliffs Iron Co., with a claim of $10.9 million,
according to court papers.  The lead case is In re WP Steel Venture LLC, 12-11661,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  