-- Jack Twyman, Basketball Hall of Famer and Caregiver, Dies
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-05-31T19:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/twyman-basketball-hall-of-famer-and-caregiver-dies-correct-.html
Jack Twyman, a basketball  Hall of
Fame player  who spent more than a decade caring for an injured
teammate, died at age 78.  The Naismith Memorial  Basketball Hall of Fame  confirmed the
death of Twyman, a forward who played at the  University of
Cincinnati . Twyman died yesterday at a Cincinnati hospice
because of complications from a form of blood cancer, his son,
Jay Twyman, told the  Associated Press .  Twyman, a six-time All-Star, played his entire 11-year
National Basketball Association career for the
Rochester/Cincinnati Royals franchise, averaging 19.2 points and
6.6 rebounds per game.  John Kennedy Twyman was born in Pittsburgh and played four
years at Cincinnati, where he averaged 16.5 points per game as a
senior.  He was picked by the Royals in the second round of the 1955
NBA draft and went on to average 31.2 points during the 1959-60
season. He retired having scored  15,840 points .  In 1958, Twyman became the legal guardian of teammate
Maurice Stokes, who was paralyzed after hitting his head during
a fall in a game. Twyman helped provide for Stokes for the rest
of his life, assisting with his care-taking and medical bills.
Stokes died in 1970.  “Jack will always be remembered for his hard work and his
huge heart,” John Doleva, the president and chief executive
officer of the Springfield, Massachusetts-based Hall said in an
e-mailed statement. “The Basketball Hall of Fame and the game
of basketball not only lost an incredible athlete but also an
incredible man.”  Twyman is survived by his wife, Carole, four children and
14 grandchildren, AP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 