-- Yingluck Backs Party Efforts That May Absolve Thaksin
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2012-05-31T08:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/yingluck-backs-party-s-bid-to-pass-thai-reconciliation-law.html
(Corrects headline to show that Yingluck didn’t
specifically refer to amnesty for her brother, and adds comment
in second paragraph on the legislation in parliament.)  Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra backed her ruling party’s moves to pass a law that
may exonerate her fugitive brother, saying a resolution of
political turmoil since a 2006 coup will lead to stability.  “Reconciliation must be accepted by the majority of the
people,” Yingluck said in an interview in Bangkok today, amid
opposition to draft proposals that call for an amnesty for
certain charges since the generals ousted her brother,  Thaksin Shinawatra . Asked whether passing the so-called reconciliation
legislation is urgent, she said “it’s an important issue but we
need to discuss and make sure people agree.” She said “we hope
that in the parliament we can find a way together.”  Thailand’s 500-member parliament represents the country’s
66 million people and is the best place to resolve differences
that have spawned deadly street protests in recent years,
Yingluck said, without endorsing any of the four specific
proposals, all of which would clear her brother. Her Puea Thai
party won a majority in elections almost 11 months ago.  The comments represent the most public endorsement of her
party’s efforts to pass a law clearing the way for Thaksin to
return to  Thailand  after he fled a jail sentence in 2008. She is
banking on her parliamentary majority and improved relations
with the military to avoid a repeat of protests that year that
saw her brother’s opponents seize Bangkok’s airports.  Situation Different  “Now the situation is different again because people learn
enough after the coup,” Yingluck, 44, said. “The people who
start the coup, like General Sonthi, also admit that this is not
the right way to solve the problem.”  Sonthi Boonyaratglin, who led the 2006 coup and is now a
lawmaker, tabled one of the amnesty proposals in Parliament.
Policemen stepped in yesterday after lawmakers from the
opposition Democrat party holding signs saying “Stop Fake
Reconciliation and Amnesty for Corrupted Person” tried to
forcibly remove House Speaker Somsak Kiatsuranont from presiding
over the session.  “The nation’s justice system and righteousness are about
to be destroyed if the reconciliation law enters the parliament
and gets approved,” former Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
said yesterday on Blue Sky Channel, a broadcaster backed by his
party. “We shouldn’t call it a reconciliation law because it is
a law to erase wrongdoings.”  Abhisit’s View  He supported lawful protests by the  People’s Alliance  for
Democracy, a group of yellow-shirted royalist protesters who
took over the airports in 2008 in a bid to remove Thaksin’s
allies from power. The group is protesting outside Parliament
today against efforts to pass the new law.  Thaksin has lived overseas since fleeing a two-year jail
sentence in 2008 for helping his wife buy land from the
government. A court seized 46.4 billion baht ($1.5 billion) of
his family’s money in 2010, two weeks before his supporters
started protests that shut down Bangkok’s commercial center and
ended in a military crackdown and arson attacks.  “We got the clear mandate from the people,” Yingluck said
in the interview, referring to her election last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  