-- Yingluck Bets on Army Calm as Thai Strains Rise: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-06-01T09:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-31/yingluck-bets-on-army-calm-as-thai-strains-rise-southeast-asia.html
As  Thailand  nears a showdown over the
fate of former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra , the exiled
tycoon’s sister is banking on the army’s neutrality to avoid a
repeat of 2008 protests that led to the ouster of a government.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra in an interview
yesterday asserted her party’s parliamentary majority in backing
moves to consider an amnesty for Thaksin, who was deposed in a
2006 coup and has lived overseas since fleeing a jail sentence
in 2008. His opponents are mobilizing outside Parliament to
block lawmakers from taking measures that would exonerate him.  “The army and the establishment are the ultimate
arbiters,” said  Thitinan Pongsudhirak , director of the
Institute for Strategic and International Studies at
Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok. “Thaksin’s going to push -
- what does the establishment do, army do? So far there has been
some accommodation, but now it’s being tested.”  Rising tensions threaten to undermine  domestic spending  as
 Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing growth in China damp demand for
cars and electronics made in  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest
economy. Thai exports unexpectedly fell in April, the fifth
decline in six months, even after Honda Motor Co. and  Western
Digital Corp. (WDC)  resumed output at factories shuttered by last
year’s floods.  “If the politics get a little bit messy or unstable again,
that will be quite dangerous for the Thai economy,” said
Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at Credit
Suisse Group AG. “You need very strong domestic demand in order
to help support and pick up where exports leave off.”  Stocks Slide  Thailand’s benchmark  SET Index (SET)  fell 2.3 percent today, the
biggest drop since Oct. 20, and has slumped 9.2 percent over the
past month. The baht has declined 3.7 percent in that time, in
line with  Asia ’s most-traded currencies.  Executives attending the World Economic Forum meetings in
Bangkok this week along with Myanmar opposition leader Aung San
Suu Kyi and Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono 
dismissed the long-term impact of Thailand’s political unrest.
More than 100 people have died in street demonstrations since
the 2006 coup.  “We invest for 20, 30 years,” said  Gerard Mestrallet ,
chairman and chief executive officer of Courbevoie, France-based
 GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , Europe’s biggest utility by market value. “The
short-term political problems are not the ones we deal with. So
we are confident in the future.”  Street Protest  About 2,000 protesters from the  People’s Alliance  for
Democracy, whose yellow-shirted members helped oust two pro-
Thaksin governments, gathered outside Parliament yesterday.
Lawmakers are considering four draft bills that may wipe the
slate clean on political charges since the 2006 coup, all of
which would provide an amnesty to Thaksin.  Police intervened in Parliament two days ago after
lawmakers from the opposition  Democrat party  tried to forcibly
remove House Speaker Somsak Kiatsuranont, a member of Yingluck’s
party who called for a debate on the draft laws.  Protesters blocked roads today before some ministers
arrived, Thai PBS television reported. Information minister
Anudit Nakorntab, who was already inside the Parliament
building, was shown climbing through a gap in a steel fence and
escaping on foot to avoid demonstrators. The session was
postponed indefinitely because of the protest, Somsak said.  ‘Tensions Heightened’  “We can’t deny that the political situation will affect
the economy,” Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said today.
“With political tensions heightened, what I can do is try to
maintain economic stability, including prices, foreign exchange
and  interest rates , to make the economy move forward.”  Former Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who leads the
Democrat party, said the draft bills were designed to benefit
Thaksin, who stands to recover the 46 billion baht ($1.4
billion) of his family’s fortune seized by the courts in 2010.
Two weeks after the ruling, his supporters started protests
against Abhisit that shut down Bangkok’s commercial center and
ended in a military crackdown and arson attacks.  The government “is trying to cover up the 46 billion baht
and ignore the fact that this draft is related to financial
issues,” Abhisit said on Blue Sky Channel, a broadcaster backed
by his party.  Yingluck told Bloomberg yesterday that reconciliation was
an “important issue” that would allow the country to move
forward and increase political stability. She denied the moves
were specifically about Thaksin and said her party received a
“clear mandate” in last July’s elections to rectify injustices
since the coup.  “Of course the reconciliation might not satisfy for all,”
Yingluck said. “Reconciliation must be accepted by the majority
of the people.”  Election Fraud  In 2008, the army ignored requests from a pro-Thaksin
government to disperse Thaksin’s opponents after they took over
the prime minister’s office and airports. They only dispersed
after a court disbanded the ruling party for election fraud,
allowing smaller parties to switch sides and support Abhisit in
a parliamentary vote.  Yingluck, 44, has taken steps to appease the military and
palace since taking office, continuing a crackdown on websites
that disrespect the monarchy, meeting with Privy Council Chief
Prem Tinsulanonda and donating family land to King Bhumibol
Adulyadej, 84, who took the throne in 1946 and serves as
Thailand’s head of state. Military leaders cited disrespect for
the monarchy in justifying Thaksin’s overthrow in 2006.  “We work very closely and with respect for each other,”
Yingluck said of her ties to the army. “Now the situation is
different again because people learn enough from after the coup
that it cannot move Thailand to anywhere.”  Coup Leader  Sonthi Boonyaratglin, who led the 2006 coup and is now a
lawmaker, has proposed one of the bills that would allow Thaksin
to avoid a two-year jail sentence for helping his wife buy land
from the government that has kept him from returning to Thailand
since 2008. Thaksin, who founded the country’s biggest mobile-
phone company and served as prime minister from 2001 to 2006,
has denied any wrongdoing.  An amnesty for Thaksin “will destroy the country’s legal
system,” said Jirawat Naksawat, 33, who helped occupy the
airports in 2008 and joined the anti-Thaksin protest yesterday
with his wife and 18-month-old daughter after driving from his
home near the Thai-Laos border more than 600 kilometers (373
miles) from Bangkok. “If the leaders ask us to enter
Parliament, I will join on the front lines.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  