-- African Leaders Set to Back Return of Kenyan ICC Cases
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-05-26T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/african-leaders-set-to-back-call-for-return-of-kenyan-icc-cases.html
African leaders are likely to back a
Kenyan proposal that the International Criminal Court refer its
cases against President Uhuru Kenyatta and Vice President
William Ruto back to the East African nation, African Union
Peace and Security Commissioner Ramtane Lamamra said.  Heads of state gathered in Addis Ababa yesterday for an
African Union summit that marks the continental body’s 50th
anniversary. African foreign ministers who met this month in the
Ethiopian capital agreed to a request to “terminate the case at
the level of the ICC and to rely on the national judiciary that
is being reformed,” Lamamra said in an interview on May 25.  “I assume the heads of states will reinforce what the
ministers have been doing,” he said. The decision of the heads
of states will be announced today.  Kenyatta, 51, is the second sitting president, after
 Sudan ’s Umar al-Bashir, to face trial at the Hague-based ICC.
The Kenyan leader and Ruto, 46, are accused of organizing and
financing militias to carry out murders after a disputed 2007
presidential election sparked ethnic and political violence in
which more than 1,100 people died. The two men, who came to
power following a vote in March, say they will fight for their
innocence at the court.  A peace accord that ended the violence in 2008 promised a
new constitution. Among the key aims of the charter was to
strengthen the judiciary’s independence from the executive to
build trust in its authority. Since the constitution’s enactment
in August 2010, the country has appointed a new chief justice,
established a Supreme Court and undergone a process of vetting
its judges.  ‘Stronger’ Judiciary  ICC principles state that cases should be heard
domestically, which is possible now because  Kenya ’s new legal
system is “much stronger and more independent,” Lamamra said.  A “majority” of African nations believe the court is
biased against the continent’s leaders, Sudanese Foreign
Minister Nyial Deng Nyial said in an interview May 25 in Addis
Ababa. All of the seven cases currently before the ICC are
against Africans, according to its  website . Thirty-four African
nations are members of The Hague-based court.  The situation is “very hard” for Senegal as it’s a member
of the ICC and the African Union and supports both, President
Macky Sall said in an interview. “But we are African and we
have absolute obligation to follow the African position.”  Kenya’s successful election demonstrates its legal and
political system is capable of hearing the cases, said
Ethiopia’s Foreign Minister Tedros Adhanom in an interview at
the summit yesterday.  “If they’ve done the most sensitive part, the political
process, the democratization, then we should trust them and give
them the responsibility to do it themselves,” he said.  The summit of leaders will also discuss plans to strengthen
their role in ending conflicts on the continent, Lamamra said.
Heads of states from the 54-member bloc will explore interim
measures to “establish an African capacity for immediate
response to crises,” he said.  ‘Rapid Response’  The interventions may include the creation of a rapid-response force until an African Standby Force to stabilize
crisis-hit countries is deployed as early as 2015, he said.  “We’ll do everything to operationalize the African Standby
Force by 2015, but we cannot ensure that all the obstacles will
be surmounted and it will effectively happen,” Lamamra said.
“In the meantime, we the commission believe we need a tool for
immediate response to crisis.”  African nations will still need foreign assistance as
security operations are financially “very demanding”, Tedros
said.  “The force could be 100 percent from us but we still will
need logistics support from the international community,” he
said.  Current conflicts on the continent include Nigeria’s battle
against Islamist militants. President Goodluck Jonathan imposed
emergency rule in three northeastern Nigerian states on May 14
and began a ground and air offensive against Boko Haram, which
seeks to impose Shariah law in  Africa ’s biggest oil-producing
nation.  In eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, fighting flared
has flared for the first time in six months between members of
the M23 rebel group and government soldiers. The UN is
stationing an intervention brigade there to support a
peacekeeping mission.  French Intervention  French military forces intervened earlier this year to
fight Islamist rebels in  Mali , part of a region awash with
weapons and armed groups after the overthrow of former Libyan
leader Muammar Qaddafi. The United Nations Security Council on
April 25 authorized the deployment to Mali of 11,200 peace-keepers and a separate French unit to end the threat of the
insurgents.  The African Union “formally” expressed discontent with
the details of that UN operation, which will take over from a
mission organized by West African states on July 1, Lamamra
said.  “More and more the traditional peacekeeping operation
involving interposition, cease-fire observation is not relevant
in most conflict situations in Africa,” said Lamamra, an
Algerian. “And it’s more and more obvious to everybody that you
can’t negotiate cease-fire agreements with transnational
organized crime groups,” mercenaries and terrorists.
“Therefore what you need is enforcement, robust missions” that
are well-equipped and mobile, he said.  The AU summit, which ends today, marks half a century since
the formation of the Organization of African Unity. The OAU was
disbanded and succeeded by the AU in 2002. The bloc is striving
to achieve greater unity among member states, promote peace and
raise living standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  