-- Hagel Calls on Army Cadets to Build ‘Culture of Respect’
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-05-25T15:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/hagel-calls-on-army-cadets-to-build-culture-of-respect-.html
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel told
graduates of the U.S. Military Academy at  West Point  that they
must build a “culture of respect” that would eliminate sexual
assaults and harassment in the armed services.  Describing an Army burdened by budget cuts, sexual assaults
and suicides after a decade of war, Hagel urged the graduates to
devote themselves to improving military culture.  “You will need to not just deal with these debilitating,
insidious and destructive forces, but rather you must be the
generation of leaders that stop it,” Hagel said today in a
commencement address at the nation’s oldest military academy,
about 50 miles (80 kilometers) north of  New York  City.  “This will require your complete commitment to building a
culture of respect and dignity for every member of the military
and society,” he said.  Hagel’s comments came as the Pentagon has been roiled by a
series of cases this month involving alleged sexual misconduct
and an anonymous survey of troops found that the majority of
sexual assaults go unreported.  The issue touched West Point this week, when the Army
disclosed that a sergeant on the academy’s staff, Michael
McClendon, faces charges of videotaping female cadets without
their consent while they showered.  “Sexual harassment and sexual assault in the military are
a profound betrayal-- a profound betrayal --  of sacred oaths
and sacred trusts,” Hagel said. “This scourge must be stamped
out. We are all accountable and responsible for ensuring that
this happens.”  Boiling Point  Concern about sexual misconduct in the ranks, which has
simmered for decades, reached a boiling point this month after
three officers assigned to programs to prevent sexual abuse were
removed from their posts after allegations of wrongdoing.  The head of the  Air Force ’s sexual assault prevention
program faces criminal charges alleging he groped a woman in a
parking lot near the Pentagon. An Army sergeant first class is
under investigation for alleged “pandering, abusive sexual
contact, assault and maltreatment of subordinates.” An Army
lieutenant colonel was arrested on a charge that he violated a
protective order concerning his wife, whom he’s divorcing.  The Army is also investigating the commander of a battalion
at the nation’s primary missile-defense base for condoning
sexual affairs at the remote post in  Alaska , creating what
subordinates called a “toxic environment.” The service was
already looking into the commander at Fort Greely, Alaska, for
promoting a World War II-style pinup calendar with photos of his
wife and scantily clad female soldiers.  Obama’s Concern  President  Barack Obama  has used several public appearances
in recent days to express his concern about sexual assaults,
including a commencement address he gave yesterday at the U.S.
Naval Academy in Annapolis,  Maryland .  “Those who commit sexual assault are not only committing a
crime; they threaten the trust and discipline that makes our
military strong,” Obama said. “That’s why we have to be
determined to stop these crimes, because they’ve got no place in
the greatest military on earth.”  Hagel, a twice-wounded Vietnam War veteran, said the next
generation of leaders will have to reshape the Army for
unpredictable challenges, just as the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks redefined warfare that was once dominated by tanks and
battleships.  “The challenge you will face is how to build on the skills
honed during the past decade of war while preparing for
conflicts that are likely to take on a new and unfamiliar form -
- and to do this in an Army that will have fewer people and less
money than it’s had in recent years,” Hagel said.  West Point, founded in 1802, trains Army cadets to become
officers. The school on the banks of the  Hudson River  counts
among its graduates former President Dwight David Eisenhower, a
Republican, and Senator  Jack Reed , a Rhode Island Democrat and
the only West Point graduate currently serving in the Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  