-- Mahathir Says Malaysia Ruling Party Has No Alternative to Najib
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-05-25T06:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/mahathir-says-malaysia-ruling-party-has-no-alternative-to-najib.html
Malaysia ’s ruling Barisan Nasional
has no choice but to continue supporting Prime Minister Najib
Razak, even after losing a majority of the popular vote in May 5
elections, said Mahathir Mohamad, the nation’s former leader.  “I think the party will support him because of a lack of
an alternative,” Mahathir, 87, said in Tokyo today, speaking at
the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of  Japan .  Najib’s governing coalition extended its 55-year rule,
winning 133 seats in the 222-member parliament as support for
ethnic-Chinese component parties in the ruling alliance
dwindled. Ethnic Chinese parties in the government won nine
seats compared with 23 in the 2008 election. Najib attributed
his coalition’s loss in Selangor state assembly vote, where the
opposition took 17 of 22 seats, to a “Chinese tsunami” against
the government.  Chinese make up about a quarter of Malaysia’s 29 million
people, while about 60 percent are Malays and indigenous groups
together known as Bumiputera, or “sons of the soil,” who get
preferential treatment in areas like business and education
through affirmative action. The opposition rejected Najib’s
analysis of the poll outcome in racial terms, a sensitive topic
in a country where hundreds were killed in Sino-Malay riots in
1969 after an election.  The results of the election show Malaysia has become more
divided than unified, Mahathir said today.  “We are still striving to bring the races together,” he
said, calling unity an “uphill task.” “Because of this racial
polarization” Najib couldn’t get Chinese votes, he said.  Contesting Results  Opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim , a former finance minister
under Barisan Nasional, has protested the result, holding a
series of rallies around the country to allege electoral fraud.
He has pledged to contest the results in as many as 30 seats,
enough to swing the overall result.  The Institute for Democracy and Economic affairs, an
official election observer, described the poll as “only
partially free and not fair” in a May 8 report. Candidates have
21 days from May 23 to file protests. Election Commission
Chairman Abdul Aziz Mohd Yusof said May 5 he was “satisfied”
with the voting process.  The margin of victory was even narrower than the 2008
election, after which Abdullah Ahmad Badawi stood down as prime
minister to take responsibility. Najib, who took over midterm
four years ago, could face a leadership challenge when his
party, the United Malays National Organisation, holds its annual
assembly later this year. Deputy Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin
is potentially next in line.  Economy Weakens  Besides an ethnic divide, Najib’s administration faces a
weakening  economy , with growth slowing to less than 5 percent
for the first time in seven quarters. Gross domestic product
rose 4.1 percent in the three months through March from a year
earlier, after a revised 6.5 percent gain in the previous
quarter, the central bank said May 15.  Mahathir was Malaysia’s longest-running prime minister,
winning five straight election victories before retiring in 2003
after 22 years in power. The medical doctor sacked Anwar, his
heir apparent, at the height of the Asian financial crisis in
1998 after clashing over economic policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in  Tokyo  at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  