-- Australia to Boost Farm Exports 45% by 2025 to Help Feed China
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-05-25T01:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/australia-to-boost-farm-exports-45-by-2025-to-help-feed-china.html
Australia  will boost the value of
agriculture and food-related exports 45 percent by 2025 to meet
demand from  China , the government said in a plan released today.  “The rise of Asia is transforming the world,” Agriculture
Minister Joe Ludwig said. “By 2050 world food consumption is
expected to be 75 percent higher than in 2007, and almost half
of this increased demand will come from China alone. Australia
will never be able to put food on every table in Asia, but an
expanding Asian middle class offers an important opportunity for
Australia’s food industry.”  Australia exports A$30.5 billion ($29.4 billion) of food
per year and produces enough to feed the nation of 23 million
people twice over, according to the  National Food Plan  released
by Ludwig in Brisbane today. Fifteen percent of the nation’s
workforce is involved in food production, which is the biggest
employer in rural and regional Australia, he said.  Australia in November signed into law a plan to boost the
amount of water returned to the Murray-Darling Basin and ensure
sustainable food production. The system, which extends from
southern Queensland to South Australia, covers 14 percent of
Australia’s land and produces more than one-third of the
nation’s food including wheat and dairy.  Trusted Supplier  “While we will continue to be a reliable and trusted
supplier of quality staple foods there is also an opportunity to
supply growing markets with high-value food products that meet
increasing preferences for safe, premium goods,” Ludwig said.
“However, the competition will be fierce and we will have to
work to seize this opportunity, building on our strengths, such
as our proximity to Asia and the skills and capabilities of our
workforce.”  He said the plan is backed by initiatives including: A$28.5
million for an Asian Food Markets Research Fund; strengthening
Asian trade ties by investing A$5.6 million to give agriculture
a “stronger, government endorsed voice” in key markets; A$2
million to develop Australia’s own recognized food brand; a
Productivity Commission review to identify priority areas for
reforming food supply chain regulations; and the establishment
of an Australian Council on Food.  “Our food supply chain has a strong foundation, with high
levels of food security and hardworking producers,” Ludwig
said. “Like others around the world, there are challenges
including climate change, population growth, diet-related health
issues, and competition for resources. There are also enormous
opportunities, including the rise of Asia.”  Australia is the third-largest beef shipper and was the
biggest wheat exporter after the U.S. last season.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  