-- Robben Helps Bayern Leave Behind Failures in Champions League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-25T22:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/bayern-wins-champions-league-title-with-2-1-defeat-of-dortmund.html
A year ago  Arjen Robben  failed to
score a penalty as  Bayern Munich  lost the Champions League final
to Chelsea. Last night, the Dutchman redeemed himself with a
late goal that gave his team the European soccer title.  Robben’s shot in the 89th minute gave Bayern a 2-1 win over
 Borussia Dortmund  in the all-German final at Wembley Stadium in
 London .  The victory gives Bayern its fifth title in  Europe ’s elite
club competition and comes after two losses in the past three
finals. Bayern was beaten last year in a shootout to Chelsea on
its home field, with Robben missing a penalty kick in extra
time.  “I’ve dreamed about this moment,” Robben said in a press
conference. “I had a good feeling when we got here today, but
to actually win the  Champions League  is unbelievable.”  Bayern’s Mario Mandzukic opened the scoring in the 60th
minute and Ilkay Gundogan tied it eight minutes later with a
penalty kick.  It was the first time two German clubs met in the final in
the competition’s 58-year history. Dortmund won its only
Champions League title in 1997.  “I am proud of my team, but at the moment it’s the
disappointment that prevails,” Dortmund coach Juergen Klopp
said. “If you’re looking forward to something and don’t get it,
it hurts.”  The victory keeps Bayern, which routed tournament favorite
Barcelona 7-0 in the two-game semifinal, in contention to become
the first German team to win three trophies in one season. It
won the Bundesliga, finishing 25 points ahead of runner-up
Dortmund, and will face Stuttgart in the German Cup final on
June 1.  Improving, Adapting  “After we lost the final last year, we didn’t resolve
ourselves to our fate,” Bayern coach Jupp Heynckes said. “We
upped the ante and tried harder and you see the result. From the
outset of the season, we have been improving things, adapting
things.”  Bayern’s five titles ties Liverpool for third most, behind
Real  Madrid ’s nine and AC Milan’s seven. Heynckes, who will step
down after the season, becomes the fourth manager to win the
European Cup with two teams, after guiding Real Madrid to
success in 1998.  Dortmund started on the offensive, forcing Bayern
goalkeeper  Manuel Neuer  into four saves in the first 25 minutes.
Bayern didn’t get its first chance until the 26th minute as
Mandzukic’s header was tipped over goal by Roman Weidenfeller,
with Javi Martinez heading over the resulting corner kick.
Weidenfeller then blocked Robben’s shot and Neuer came off his
line to stop  Robert Lewandowski  in the 35th minute.  Chances  Robben got free in the Dortmund area moments later but
stumbled with his shot being blocked. He then fought off Mats Hummels for a long ball into the middle of the area just before
halftime, only to hit Weidenfeller in the face with his shot.  Bayern started the second half on the attack and went in
front after Robben took a ball from Franck Ribery and laid a
pass for Mandzukic to knock in at the back post.  The lead lasted just eight minutes as Gundogan scored from
the penalty spot after Bayer defender Dante fouled Marco Reus.
Dortmund broke out on a counter attack moments later, but
Hummels sent a shot well over goal.  Bayern had a chance to go back in front as  Thomas Mueller 
broke free on the right, went around Weidenfeller and sent a
ball toward the open net which Neven Subotic slid to kick away
with Robben positioned at the back post.  Tragic Figures  After Weidenfeller punched away shots from David Alaba and
 Bastian Schweinsteiger , Robben latched onto a ball in the area
and sent a shot into the net with Weidenfeller closing in on him
in the final minute.  Heynckes said he had a feeling Robben would be a factor,
based on the winger’s recent form.  “Last year we are all tragic figures, not just Arjen,”
Heynckes said. “Yesterday I was talking to him and said, ‘Look
Arjen, you’re in really good form and tomorrow that is going to
be one of the crucial factors.’”  As for Robben, he can officially put the ghosts of 2012
behind him.  “After all the disappointment of last year, you don’t want
the tag of a loser,” he said. “At last we did it and we can
forget about the other things now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 