-- Canada Dollar Drops 3rd Week on Bets Risk Assets Outpace Growth
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-05-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/canada-dollar-drops-3rd-week-on-bets-risk-assets-outpace-growth.html
The Canadian dollar touched the
weakest level in a year against its U.S. counterpart amid
investor concern that gains in riskier assets have outpaced
global economic growth.  The currency fell for a third week versus the greenback as
U.S. jobless claims dropped and durable-goods orders rose,
adding to speculation Federal Reserve Chairman Ben. S. Bernanke
may slow monetary stimulus. It dropped against a majority of its
16 most-traded peers as oil,  Canada ’s biggest export, declined
and stocks in the U.S. and  Europe  slid. The  Bank of Canada  will
announce its rate decision on May 29, the final meeting for
Governor  Mark Carney .  “The weaker Canadian dollar is at a crossroads,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “The  U.S. dollar  story,
driven by Bernanke’s comments about tapering, has weighed on the
currency. It remains to be seen if the move was warranted, given
the data dependency. But we may have moved too far, too fast.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.4 percent to
C$1.0318 per U.S. dollar this week in Toronto. It reached
C$1.0394, weakest since June 5, 2012. One loonie buys 96.92 U.S.
cents.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  government bonds  fell, with
yields rising three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
1.95 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
fell 25 cents to C$95.94.  Net Shorts  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was
33,852 on May 21, compared with net shorts of 44,417 a week
earlier.  The S&P GSCI gauge of  raw materials  fell 1.2 percent on the
week after reaching a five-week high May 20. Futures for  crude
oil  fell 2.3 percent to $93.85 a barrel in  New York . Standard &
Poor’s 500  Index of stocks  dropped 1.1 percent.  “The Canadian dollar is underperforming as commodity
prices continue to dip and the U.S. dollar gets stronger amid
eventual Fed tapering talk, which has weighed on risk assets,”
 Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., said by phone from Toronto.  ‘Looking Cheap’  Crude may decline in New York next week on concern global
economic growth will slow and on bets U.S. fuel supplies will be
sufficient to meet summer demand, a Bloomberg survey showed.
Twenty of 32 analysts, or 63 percent, forecast crude will
decrease through May 31. Seven respondents predicted an increase
and five projected no change. Last week, 51 percent of analysts
projected a decline.  “The risk sentiment and volatility has taken some of the
edge out of commodity currencies,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities
unit, said in a telephone interview. “The U.S. is looking cheap
as the economy turns and we get more whispers of tapering, and
that will continue to reflect on the Canadian dollar.”  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart reached 8.02 percent, the
highest level since July 25. Traders quote and use the measure,
which signals the expected pace of currency swings, to set
option prices.  Central Banks  U.S. jobless claims fell by 23,000 to 340,000 in the week
ended May 18, the Labor Department said, versus a forecast
345,000 in a Bloomberg survey. Bookings for equipment meant to
last at least three years increased  3.3 percent  last month after
dropping 5.9 percent in March, the Commerce Department reported,
compared with a 1.5 percent increase forecast in another survey.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage
bonds each month to cap borrowing costs. Bernanke said this week
the central bank may slow purchases at its next few meetings if
it’s confident of sustained gains in the economy.  As the Fed debates its next move, the highest  inflation-adjusted yields  on Canadian government bonds in almost three
months suggest that incoming Bank of Canada Governor Stephen
Poloz has room to reverse Carney’s tightening bias and cut
 interest rates .  ‘No Chance’  Carney, who leaves as governor of the Bank of Canada on
June 1 to become head of the  Bank of England , said in January
that there’s still room for more monetary stimulus around the
world if needed, and that the task for central banks is to
achieve “escape velocity” for their economies.  The focus is “turning towards Governor Carney’s last BOC
meeting,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS)  in Toronto, wrote in a note to clients of the May 29
gathering. “Markets are pricing in no chance of an interest-rate change.”  The world’s 11th largest economy will expand 1.6 percent
this year, the slowest growth since the economy contracted 2.8
percent in 2009, according to economist surveyed by Bloomberg.
At the same time the U.S economy is expected to growth by 2
percent.  “After the recent decline in inflation, there are still
question marks on if the central bank can or will maintain its
hiking bias,”  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-income strategy at
 Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ’s RBC Capital Markets unit, said by phone
from Toronto on May 21. “Performance from here will be dictated
by if the Canadian economy can hook on to the coattails of the
emerging U.S. economy.”  The Canadian dollar fell 0.7 percent this week, the second
weakest performance after the dollar of  Australia , another
commodities exporter, among 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
dropped 0.3 percent, the euro advanced 0.5 percent and the yen
added 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  