-- Egypt Court Blocks Articles of Election, Parliament Laws
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   A h m e d   E l - S a y e d
-- 2013-05-25T15:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/egypt-court-blocks-articles-of-election-parliament-laws.html
Egypt ’s top court ruled that draft
laws on voting and parliamentary procedures are in breach of the
constitution, creating a new obstacle to President Mohamed Mursi’s plan to hold elections.  The Supreme  Constitutional Court  found four articles of the
parliament law and nine from the election law were
unconstitutional, the judicial body said in a faxed statement
from Cairo today.  Egypt has been without a functioning lower house of
parliament, the main legislative body, since it was shut down by
court order in June last year, days before Mursi won an election
runoff. Mursi’s initial proposal to hold elections starting in
April this year for a new assembly was also blocked by courts,
which objected to the proposed rules for voting.  After the failure of that plan, Mursi said in March that he
envisaged elections starting in October for a parliament that
would then be able to convene before the end of the year. It’s
not clear whether today’s ruling will affect that timetable.  Mursi, who’s backed by the Muslim Brotherhood, has
repeatedly clashed with Egypt’s judiciary since he became the
country’s first democratically elected civilian president.  He has also been criticized by secular politicians and
activists for seeking to cement power for his Islamist movement
rather than addressing the main concerns behind the 2011
uprising against  Hosni Mubarak , such as unemployment and police
brutality.  Egypt’s economy has been growing at the slowest pace in two
decades since the revolution, while the main  stock index  has
plunged about 25 percent since the end of 2010 and yields on
 government bonds  have surged.  Mursi and allies say that obstruction of his government by
the judiciary, as well as regular protests and strikes, are
holding back a recovery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed Khalilelsayed in Cairo at 
 akhalilelsay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  