-- French Soldier Stabbed While on Security Patrol in Paris
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2013-05-26T12:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/french-soldier-on-patrol-near-paris-station-attacked-with-blade.html
A French soldier stabbed in the
neck yesterday while patrolling at a Metro-station mall in La
Defense on the western edge of Paris remains hospitalized
without life-threatening injuries.  Cedric Cordier, 25, spent the night at a military hospital
in Clamart, southwest of Paris, where he will be under 
observation for 48 hours, according to an  Interior Ministry  
official. The Paris criminal police are investigating the 
incident at the request of the antiterrorist prosecutor, the
official said.  The assailant is still at large, Pierre-Andre Peyvel, 
prefect of Hauts-de-Seine, told reporters at the scene in an 
interview televised by  i-Tele  after yesterday's incident.  Elements of the crime, in particular “the sudden 
violence of the attack” and the “very violent” targeting of 
the uniformed soldier, are similar to a London assault on 
May 22, Interior Minister Manuel Valls told i-Tele.  Two men are suspected of killing 25-year-old British
soldier Lee Rigby with knives and cleavers in the middle of a
road across from an army barracks in the U.K. capital. The men,
one of whom was linked to a banned Islamist organization, were
shot during their arrest and are hospitalized as the police 
investigation continues.  The French soldier was part of a team of military 
personnel and police working on security in the Paris area 
where he was attacked, according to an e-mailed statement 
yesterday from the Interior and Defense ministries.  Valls called for “prudence,” saying investigators are
still trying to understand the circumstances behind the
incident.  French antiterrorist measures, currently at the second-highest level on a four-step scale, have been reinforced since
 France ’s January military intervention in  Mali .  “We will study all hypotheses,” French President Francois Hollande said in a televised statement. “We still don’t know
the exact circumstances surrounding the attack.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  