-- Granderson Breaks Pinkie Knuckle in Yankees’ 9-4 Defeat of Rays
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-25T04:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/granderson-breaks-pinkie-knuckle-in-yankees-9-4-defeat-of-rays.html
Yankees right fielder  Curtis Granderson  broke the knuckle on his left pinkie finger in New
York’s 9-4 Major League Baseball win against the Tampa Bay Rays.  Granderson, who returned to the team on May 14, was injured
when he was hit by Cesar Ramos’s pitch in the fifth inning.
Granderson missed the first 38 games of the season after
breaking his right forearm when he was hit by pitch in his first
spring training at-bat.  “It is what it is,” Granderson told reporters. “Another
bump in the road. You can’t change it right now, you’ve got to
move forward.”  Granderson will see a hand specialist in New York on May
27. Manager  Joe Girardi  said he could miss at least four weeks.  “I’m happy that we won the game, but you lost a really
good player,” Girardi said. “That’s never a good thing.”  The Yankees have been plagued by injuries this season. The
disabled list includes  Derek Jeter ,  Alex Rodriguez ,  Andy Pettitte ,  Mark Teixeira  and  Kevin Youkilis .  In last night’s game at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg,
Florida, Lyle Overbay hit a two-run double and Jayson Nix added
a run-scoring single in the second inning to give New York a 3-0
lead.  Brett Gardner hit a two-run homer in the fourth and the
Yankees (29-18) added three more runs in the fifth to take an
8-0 lead. New York is in first place in the American League
East, one game ahead of the Boston Red Sox and five games over
the Rays (24-23).  Yankees starting pitcher David Phelps (3-2) left the game
in the bottom of the eighth inning when he was hit in the right
arm by a line drive. He gave up four runs on six hits and struck
out three in 7 2/3 innings for the win.  Roberto Hernandez (2-5) allowed five runs on six hits and
struck out three in four innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  