-- Indiana Pacers Beat Miami Heat 97-93 to Even NBA Playoff Series
-- B y   A n n a   E d g e r t o n   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-05-25T04:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/indiana-pacers-beat-miami-heat-97-93-to-even-nba-playoff-series.html
George Hill  hit four straight free
throws and  LeBron James  made two bad passes in the final minute
as the Indiana Pacers defeated the Miami Heat 97-93 to even
their National Basketball Association playoff series at one game
apiece.  James, the NBA’s Most Valuable Player who scored 36 points
to lead the defending champion Heat, threw the ball away twice
in the closing 42 seconds. Hill scored the game’s final four
points to break a 93-93 tie.  “It’s very disappointing, of course, for me,” James said
in a news conference. “That’s the first thing I always look at
on my stats sheet is the turnovers, and I had two of them at a
really key point. My turnovers hurt more than anything, the
careless turnovers.”  Game 3 in the best-of-seven series is set for tomorrow in
Indianapolis. The winner of the series will play the  San Antonio
Spurs  or the  Memphis Grizzlies  for the NBA title. The Spurs lead
that series 2-0, with Game 3 tonight at Memphis.  Roy Hibbert  had 29 points and 10 rebounds to lead the
Pacers at AmericanAirlines Arena.  Paul George  added 22 points
and spent most of the night guarding James, who won Game 1 with
a layup at the final buzzer in overtime. Hill had 18 points.  “This whole team has shown great desire, great heart and
great belief, that’s the only way to describe what we’re doing
here,” Indiana coach Frank Vogel said in a news conference.
“It was one of the best basketball games I’ve been a part of.”  Chris Bosh , who had 17 points for Miami, hit two free
throws with one minute, 44 seconds remaining to tie the game 93-93, and neither team scored again from the field.  ‘Stayed Calm’  Hill hit two foul shots with 48 seconds remaining, and
James had a pass stolen by  David West  six seconds later. Miami
got the ball back and a James pass was deflected by West and
stolen by Hill with eight seconds left. James then fouled Hill,
who hit both free throws.  “We stayed calm, we stuck together, we didn’t waver,”
Hibbert said. “We’re young guys, but we know what we’re doing.
We’re a gritty team. They’re on top, but we’re coming for
them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edgerton at AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami at
   aedgerton@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  