-- Interpol Reject Russia Browder Request as Political Motivated
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-05-25T11:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/interpol-reject-russia-browder-request-as-political-motivated.html
Interpol rejected  Russia ’s request
for help in tracking Hermitage Capital Management Ltd.’s co-founder  William Browder , charged in absentia with damaging the
country’s interests by buying  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  shares at a discount
more than a decade ago.  “The case was of a predominantly political nature,‘‘
according to an Interpol statement published on its website
yesterday. Interpol also said it has deleted all information in
relation to Browder.  Hermitage, founded by Browder and late billionaire  Edmond Safra , was once the largest foreign owner of Russian shares when
it peaked at more than $4 billion in 2005, according to Browder.
He was barred from entering the country that year without
explanation, triggering years of legal conflict. Hermitage
Capital’s legal adviser Sergei Magnitsky died in a Moscow jail
in 2009.  ‘‘I was surprised to hear Interpol’s decision, it is an
extremely neutral organization that almost never makes any
judgment about controversial cases,’’ Browder said by phone
today.  An Interior Ministry spokesman said by telephone today it
had asked Interpol only to determine Browder’s location.  Magnitsky was in pretrial detention after alleging the
biggest-known  tax fraud  in Russia, a theft of $230 million from
the national treasury. The case sparked a diplomatic row, with
the U.S. imposing sanctions on Russian officials accused of
playing a role in his death and Moscow retaliating by barring
American citizens from adopting Russian orphans.  Russia ended its investigation in March into Magnitsky’s
November 2009 death at age 37 in a Moscow jail, saying it found
no sign he’d suffered physical abuse while in detention.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  