-- Kerry to Appoint Envoy to Sudan After Oil Dispute With South
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-05-25T12:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/kerry-to-appoint-envoy-to-sudan-after-oil-dispute-with-south-1-.html
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
said he’ll appoint a new special envoy to  Sudan  and South Sudan,
after a dispute over oil revenue between the newly separated
states brought them to the brink of war last year.  The dispute involves “very significant border challenges”
as well as problems related to secularism and Islamic law, Kerry
said at a press conference in Addis Ababa,  Ethiopia  today. He
called for a referendum on the status of the disputed Abyei
region.  South Sudan seceded in 2011. Most of the formerly united
country’s oil fields are in the south. Disagreements over
revenue from the crude, which is carried through the north via
pipelines, led to a 15-month shutdown of oil production before
it resumed last month. The two nations have also deployed troops
near the border, and each has accused the other of backing
rebels in its territory.  Kerry, who’s attending the 50th anniversary meeting of the
African Union in the Ethiopian capital, met with Sudan’s Foreign
Minister Ali Karti today. Scheduled talks with South Sudan’s
President Salva Kiir were postponed to a later date when more
time is available, the State Department said.  The top U.S. diplomat also called on Nigeria to respect
human rights as it battles the Boko Haram Islamic militant
movement.  “We defend the right completely of the government of
Nigeria to defend itself and to fight back against terrorists,”
Kerry said. He said he has raised with the government the
importance of troops “not themselves engaging in atrocities or
human rights violations” as they crack down on Boko Haram.  ‘Some Problems’  “To their credit, the government has acknowledged that
there have been some problems and they’re working to try to
control it,” Kerry said.  Boko Haram has carried out gun and bomb attacks across
Nigeria’s north and Abuja, the capital, since 2009, saying it is
fighting to establish Islamic rule. President Goodluck Jonathan
imposed emergency rule in three northeastern states on May 14,
and the Nigerian army last week began an air and ground
offensive against the group.  The State Department yesterday condemned “vicious
terrorist attacks” in neighboring  Niger  this week that left 23
people dead. A group linked to Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Mahgreb
said it participated in the suicide bombings.  Kerry also held talks today with United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, who’s attending the African Union Meeting.
They discussed preparations for a Syria peace conference to be
held in Geneva next month, an initiative of the U.S. and  Russia ,
the State Department said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  