-- HKMEx’s Cheung Said to Quit Rusal Board Amid Hong Kong Inquiry
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-05-25T15:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/hkmex-s-cheung-said-to-quit-rusal-board-amid-hong-kong-inquiry.html
Hong Kong  Mercantile Exchange
Chairman  Barry Cheung  resigned as a member of the board of
Russian aluminum producer  United Co. Rusal (486) , which he chaired
until October, because he is under police investigation, three
people familiar with the situation said.  He hasn’t been arrested or charged with any offense in
connection with the Hong Kong police probe into HKMEx’s
business, said the people, declining to be identified before the
information is public. They said he decided to resign from all
public duties to minimize the possible effect on public
institutions, including Rusal.  Cheung was Rusal’s chairman from March through October last
year before resigning to join Hong Kong’s government. He has
also quit Hong Kong’s Cabinet because of the probe, according to
a government  statement  yesterday. Cheung, who ran the 2012
election campaign of the city’s Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying,
took a leave of absence from public positions this week.  A Rusal spokeswoman, who could not be identified by name
because of company policy, declined to comment today. Cheung
also declined to respond when reached on his mobile phone today
and didn’t reply to an e-mailed message.  HKMEx surrendered its operating license in the week ended
May 18, telling the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission
that revenue wasn’t sufficient to support running costs. The
 regulator  said on May 21 it found “serious” suspected
irregularities in the exchange’s financial affairs and referred
the case to the police.  Three men arrested as part of the probe were charged
yesterday with having false documents including letters related
to a $460 million check and $11 million of funds. Kowloon City
Magistrate Clement Lee denied bail to the men, all from mainland
 China , and adjourned the hearing. No mention of HKMEx was made
in the charges or in court.  Cheung, the founder and largest shareholder of the HKMEx,
said previously that the three aren’t current or former
employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  