-- China’s Xi Urges N.Korea to Return to 6-Party Nuclear Talks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e ,   J o h n   W a l c o t t   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2013-05-25T08:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/n-korea-envoy-passes-handwritten-letter-from-kim-to-china-s-xi.html
Chinese President Xi Jinping
yesterday urged  North Korea  to return to six-nation talks aimed
at resolving its disputed nuclear program, the state-backed
 China  News Service reported.  Lasting peace on the Korean Peninsula is what people want
and is the trend of the times, the report quoted Xi as saying.
China’s very clear position is that all involved parties should
stick to the objective of denuclearization and resolve disputes
through dialogue and consultation, Xi told North Korean military
envoy Choe Ryong Hae, who delivered a handwritten letter from
Kim Jong Un, the report said.  “I think the Chinese took advantage of the opportunity to
be able to express their displeasure with the regime, but also
give them some kind of bone to hopefully prevent them from going
beyond the provocation cycle,” said David S. Maxwell, associate
director of the Center for Security Studies at  Georgetown
University ’s School of Foreign Service.  As the North’s chief political and  economic  patron, China
has come under pressure to rein in Kim’s regime, which in March
threatened nuclear strikes against  South Korea  and the U.S.
Choe’s visit may signal that North  Korea  is looking to ease
tensions as it backs off its bellicose rhetoric from recent
months.  Xi said all the parties involved should restart the process
of the six-party talks, which collapsed in 2008, to achieve
denuclearization on the Korean peninsula and safeguard peace and
stability in Northeast  Asia , according to the report. The talks
brought together officials of North and South Korea, the U.S.,
China,  Japan  and  Russia .  ‘Heated’ Conversation  “The concluding paragraph of the Chinese statement is a
strong indicator that the conversation was probably ‘heated,’
not just ‘warm,’” wrote U.S. intelligence analyst John McCreary,
an expert on Northeast Asia, in his May 22 NightWatch newsletter,
published by Kforce Government Solutions Inc. of Fairfax,
Virginia. “The next round of appointments Choe makes or does
not make will provide important insights as to the state of
China’s relations with North Korea.”  Choe, 63, is the highest-ranking North Korean official to
visit China since Kim succeeded his late father  Kim Jong Il  as
the nation’s leader in 2011. He holds the second-highest rank in
the military after Kim and rose to prominence in October 2010,
when he was named to serve as Kim’s guardian.  In an earlier meeting with the vice chairman of China’s
Central Military Commission, Choe said North Korea was willing
to “find ways to resolve the current conflicts via dialogues,”
the official Xinhua News Agency said.  More Pain  “This is North Korea’s way to say ‘Ouch, you’ve got us,’”
said  Paul Haenle , a former White House National Security Council
official who now directs the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global
Policy in Beijing. “‘You’ve turned up the pain and we feel it.
Now we are coming to you to let you know that you have
leverage.’”  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, speaking to reporters
today while on a visit to Myanmar, said there’s no clear
prospect at present for reviving the six-party talks, the Asahi
newspaper reported today. Japan will cooperate with the U.S. and
South Korea, Abe said, adding there’s no immediate grounds for
beginning talks between Japan and North Korea.  Dependent on China  North Korea depends on China for  fuel oil  and  consumer
goods , and trade between the two has declined since the North
defied United Nations sanctions with a rocket launch in December
and a nuclear test in February. The regime fired six short-range
missiles between May 18 and 20, and freed a Chinese fishing
vessel and its crew on May 21 after China filed a formal
complaint over the detention.  China’s statement reiterated its position on four items
that Kim’s government has rejected publicly, including
eliminating all nuclear weapons from the Korean Peninsula and
the six-nation talks, wrote McCreary.  “Kim Jong Un in his personal letter underlined the need to
carry forward and consolidate the traditional DPRK-China
friendship,” the official Korean Central News Agency said
yesterday. DPRK is the nation’s official name, Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea.  The U.S. and South Korea said it was too early to tell if
Choe’s visit marked a step forward in efforts to restart the
six-party talks.  “We’re committed to keeping the five parties of the six-party process very much united and focused on denuclearization
and our core goal in that regard,” U.S. State Department
spokesman Patrick Ventrell said May 23.  Xi, Obama  Xi is due to meet U.S. President  Barack Obama  in  California 
next month in their first face-to-face talks since China’s power
transition ended in March. Secretary of State  John Kerry  met
last month in Beijing with officials including Xi and said
afterward China is “very serious” about trying to bring North
Korea in line.  United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon said the
meeting between Xi Jinping and the North Korean envoy generated
“positive momentum”, Xinhua reported yesterday.  “At this time, I am particularly appreciative of the
Chinese leadership and government to facilitate this very
positive momentum which has been generated through their
bilateral talks,” Xinhua quoted Ban as saying.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  