-- P&G Looks for Steve Jobs-Like Sequel by Recalling Ex-CEO
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2013-05-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/p-g-looks-for-steve-jobs-like-sequel-by-recalling-ex-ceo.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s move this week
to hire back A.G. Lafley as its chief executive officer recalls
the successful returns of former leaders from  Steve Jobs  to
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ’s  Howard Schultz .  Yet for every  Apple (AAPL)  or Starbucks, there’s a  Dell Inc. (DELL)  or
Yahoo Inc., where comebacks couldn’t reverse sagging fortunes.  While bringing back an old hand isn’t a guarantee of
success, it’s a clear sign that something has gone haywire. In
the case of Cincinnati-based P&G, ex-CEO Bob McDonald struggled
to turn around the world’s largest consumer-products maker, lost
market share to rivals like Unilever and was under pressure from
activist investor  Bill Ackman , who pushed for his exit.  “It’s always an emergency when this happens,” said  Jay Lorsch , a professor at  Harvard Business School  in Boston who has
studied boards and management for 25 years. “You don’t go back
to the old guy unless you made a mistake and it means you didn’t
have another candidate ready to go.”  Investors shouldn’t lose sight of the fact that in most
cases, even successful ones, bringing back a former leader means
the board failed to groom a solid successor, Lorsch said.  McDonald, 59, who was handpicked by Lafley, lowered  profit
forecasts  three times in 2012. Ackman, who bought a stake about
nine months ago, wanted him out.  Lots of Forewarning  “They had so much forewarning, so how could they be in
this spot of not having a clear successor,” said  Jeffrey Sonnenfeld , senior associate dean at the Yale School of
Management. “This company has groomed so many top executives
that it’s hard to understand why they’re in this spot.”  Now that Lafley is back, he got a vote of confidence from
P&G shareholders: the stock rose 4 percent yesterday, the
biggest gain since October 2009, following the announcement of
his return.  The board conducted a “comprehensive review of alternate
approaches to succession,” P&G said in an e-mail, and
determined that the best option was to bring back the former CEO
“to a role he had held and for which he is uniquely
qualified.”  Returning CEOs carry a sense of obligation to the companies
that a newcomer might not have, said  James Post , a professor at
Boston University School of Management.  “They are coming in to repair damage done to the
company,” he said. “They can more quickly assure people inside
the company and placate unhappy investors outside.”  The late Steve Jobs came back to Apple in 1997 as the
company he co-founded in 1976 struggled for survival. Under his
second reign, Cupertino, California-based Apple developed the
iPhone and iPad and became the world’s most valuable technology
company.  Schultz’s Return  Schultz, 59, returned as CEO at Starbucks in 2008 after
eight years, as the Seattle-based coffee chain reported its
first quarterly drop in U.S. visits. The shares have risen more
than eightfold from a 2008 low of $7.17.  Michael Dell , who faced an industry slump since he replaced
his handpicked successor in 2007, was less successful. The 48-year-old founder has offered to take Round Rock, Texas-based
Dell private in a leveraged buyout as consumers turn to tablets
and smartphones, shunning Dell’s PCs.  At Yahoo, co-founder  Jerry Yang  stepped down in 2009, two
years after taking the helm, following Yahoo’s rejection of a
$47.5 billion takeover offer from Microsoft Corp. rankled
investors.  “Bringing back a CEO doesn’t always work, but in P&G’s
case it will,” said  Douglas Ehrenkranz , a recruiter at Boyden
in Houston who worked at P&G for about 15 years, including under
Lafley. “A.G. is not only iconic, but completely gets the
changed world we live in. This is a company that badly needs a
win, and they just got one.”  ‘Bring Confidence’  Lafley, who started working at P&G in 1977, was president
and CEO from 2000 to 2009. Unlike Dell, Jobs and Schultz,
neither he nor J.C. Penney’s Ullman are company founders.  Lafley, 65, will also be more like Ullman, 66, in that he
isn’t going to run the company for an extended time, said
 Charles Elson , director of the John L. Weinberg Center for
 Corporate Governance  at the  University of Delaware  in Newark.  “The companies want someone whom the employees know, who
is trusted by the vendors and can bring confidence to the market
and stabilize the shares,” he said.  Ullman, who was J.C. Penney CEO from November 2011 to
February 2012, was brought back in April after the retailer
forced out his replacement, former Apple and  Target Corp. (TGT) 
executive  Ron Johnson . In a twist, it was Ackman, also a J.C.
Penney board member, who lobbied for Johnson to replace Ullman.  Overseas Comebacks  Recalling former leaders isn’t confined to the U.S., nor to
the corporate world. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe returned
to the job in December, the seventh prime minister in six years.
Abe held that post for a year ending in 2007, when he quit,
citing a stomach ailment. In sports,  George Steinbrenner , former
owner of the New York Yankees baseball team, hired and fired
manager Billy Martin five times over a 14-year period.  Johann Rupert had three stints as CEO of Geneva-based
luxury-goods maker Cie. Financiere Richemont SA. He was CEO for
14 years after founding the company in 1988, returned to manage
the owner of the Cartier brand in 2003 as the SARS crisis dented
sales in Asia and again in 2010 when then-CEO Norbert Platt
resigned for medical reasons.  At Air France-KLM Group, Jean-Cyril Spinetta, 69, returned
in 2011 to replace Pierre-Henri Gourgeon, who had succeeded him
as CEO in 2008 and who was slated to stay in the post until
2013. Spinetta, who had run Air France from 1998 through the
2004 merger with KLM that created Europe’s biggest carrier, was
brought back amid declining earnings and a safety analysis that
concluded pilot training was a factor in a 2009 crash that
killed 228 people. He will step down again on July 1.  In the end it’s about calming down the crisis both inside
and outside the company, said Boston University’s Post.  “When Lafley walks down the hall, people will feel
better,” he said. “He has a great reputation for what he did
before. That’s a lot like how people felt about Jobs and Schultz
and other CEOs who came back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  