-- Pittsburgh Corning Judge Approves Plan, Rejects Insurers
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-05-25T16:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/pittsburgh-corning-judge-approves-plan-rejects-insurers.html
Pittsburgh Corning Corp.’s bankruptcy
judge overruled final objections by insurance companies trying
to halt the reorganization of the building-supply company.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Judith Fitzgerald in Pittsburgh
refused yesterday to reconsider her initial approval of the
reorganization plan, which relies partly on insurance proceeds
to pay victims of asbestos exposure.  Last week, insurers led by Mt. McKinley Insurance Co.,
asked Fitzgerald to reconsider her decision, claiming she erred
May 16 when she tentatively approved a plan to create a
$3.5 billion asbestos trust.  The trust and the plan now go before a U.S. district court
judge for a second approval, which is required for all asbestos-related bankruptcy cases that create a victim’s trust fund.  Under the bankruptcy plan, Pittsburgh Corning’s parents,
 Corning Inc. (GLW)  and  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG) , may shift their liability
for asbestos claims to the trust, which the companies and the
insurers would fund. Corning and PPG would give the trust the
right to collect on their insurance policies under the plan,
which Mt. McKinley claimed would unfairly alter the policies.  During a court hearing May 23, Fitzgerald gave the insurers
a final chance to talk her out of her decision. At the end of
the hearing, she said she was unlikely to change her mind and
asked the parties to submit any minor wording changes to her
proposed order before she made a final ruling.  The case is In Re Pittsburgh Corning Corp., 00-22876,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Western District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 