-- Powell Says Military Not CIA Should Direct Drones (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-05-25T00:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/powell-says-military-not-cia-should-direct-drones-transcript-.html
Former Secretary of State  Colin Powell , also a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that U.S. drone
strikes should be limited to targets that present a “real,
immediate threat to us” and conducted by the military rather
than the Central Intelligence Agency.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We’re at the  Vietnam  Memorial, and we begin the
Memorial Day Weekend show with a distinguished guest, General
Colin Powell. General, thank you so much for being with us.  COLIN POWELL: Thank you very much, Al, pleased to be with
you.  HUNT: We are in front of this magnificent wall where 58,286
brave Americans who died in that war are etched in granite. What
are your thoughts when you’re at this wall?  POWELL: I’m always deeply moved when I come to the wall.
The names of many of my friends and colleagues, school buddies
from  City College  of  New York  are on that wall. And I have
brought many visitors here from other countries. And they’re
also always deeply touched, not only by the wall itself, but by
the people they meet at the wall, the families who have come
here to see the names of their loved ones to take an engraving,
or to leave a gift.  And you know I’m on the program that is trying to create an
education center in the middle wall. I want to raise that
education center. It’s over the last 30 years we’ve accumulated
100,000 gifts, things that were left at the wall. We have them
in a warehouse. We want to be able to display these. We want to
make sure that these names on the wall just don’t become
anonymous names to future generations.  HUNT: So that’s one purpose of the Vietnam education
center.  POWELL: Yes.  HUNT: What else should be exposed?  POWELL: The education center will also reflect not only the
sacrifices made by our Vietnam veterans, but by the veterans of
all our wars. And it’s an opportunity to educate current
generations of Americans, and more importantly future
generations of Americans who have not experienced this kind of
conflict, which I’m glad that that will be the case, I hope that
will be the case, but to remind us that the privileges that we
enjoy, the freedoms we enjoy a lot of people gave their lives
and a lot of people served our country, came home safely, but
all of them are deserved of our praise and thanks.  HUNT: What lessons will we learn from Vietnam?  POWELL: I think we learned that be very, very careful when
you decide to get into a war. Make sure you have a clear
understanding of the political objectives that you’re trying to
achieve. And make sure that you have a good understanding of
what the enemy’s motivation and inspiration happens to be.  I think with the  Vietnam War  we got into this conflict and
underestimated at the very beginning the intensity of feeling
within North Vietnam that this was a nationalistic issue for
them and not just communist ideology versus democracy or
capitalist ideology. So I’ve always been one who believed that
political agendas must be clear when you’re going to commit the
armed forces of the  United States , and that means the young men
and women, to battle where lives will be lost on both sides.  HUNT: Compare the treatment that you received when you
returned from Vietnam to the treatment that of course was given
and so  Iraq  to Afghanistan received today.  POWELL: I think we can all remember that period roughly
from ’68 to, oh ’74 or ’75 when things were really not good in
this country. We saw the assassination of our president earlier
in the 1960s, and in 1968 the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther
King and then Bobby Kennedy -  And the whole country turned against the war, so much so
that conscription was ended. From now on we’re not going to
draft young men. You have a volunteer army. So it was a very,
very difficult time. And those of us who came back from Vietnam
thought that we had done what was asked of us, and we did not
get the same kind of appreciation and respect that our veterans
coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan are getting.  You also have to remember that in those days that you could
be drafted and go whether you wanted to or not. Now we have a
volunteer army, a volunteer force that was absolutely a terrific
force. And the American people respect them ever since they
first go through that. And early 1990s we have seen this kind of
action for support for our volunteer troops.  HUNT: Let me - let me return to today’s force in a moment,
but one of things a lot of those Vietnam veterans and even the
more recent veterans are dependent upon the VA.  POWELL: Yes.  HUNT: And our VA is headed by a magnificent man, a good
friend of yours, General Eric Shinseki himself who suffered
disabilities during the Vietnam War. And we know he cares a lot,
but there’s a huge backlog over there. Disability claims are not
being handled. What should be done about that?  POWELL: Well, I think Secretary Shinseki, General Shinseki
is doing everything he can do, but the claims, the rate of
claims being submitted I think is rather extraordinary and
unexpected. So we’re still catching up.  And for the most part they’re filed on paper. They’re
paper. And it just takes a long time to study all of these. Some
of them are valid claims, others perhaps are not as valid as
they should be to get disability. And so the VA has a
responsibility to ensure that those veterans who deserve
disability payments get those disability payments. And that’s
going to take time.  General Shinseki has said he needs another couple of years
to work on the backlog. I have confidence that he will get it
done.  HUNT: And we are doing better as far as jobs are concerned?
It used to be a very high  unemployment rate , still is higher
than the national average for veterans, but getting better.  POWELL: There are a lot of organizations, a lot of
corporations that I work with and who I visit on a regular basis
who have made it part of their corporate culture to reach out to
our veterans and offer them jobs, or more importantly give them
the training for jobs that will be available to them. So I think
the American business community is committed to helping reduce
this unemployment rate hopefully below the national average. Our
youngsters would be act and reintegrate themselves back to
civilian life with a decent job so they can provide for their
families. And it reflects the respect that we have for them.  HUNT: General, you mentioned earlier that the difference
between the force back in Vietnam and force today. What is the
state of the American military today?  POWELL: I think it’s terrific. Today’s voluntary youngsters
have over the last 10 years went back two, three, four, five to
six. And I read about one fellow who went back nine times. That
is a heck of a sacrifice that they have made in service to their
nation. So I think this whole volunteer force is a great force
that has dispatched itself and has done a terrific job in both
Iraq and Afghanistan.  HUNT: Do you worry as they’ll have some challenges?  POWELL: Yes. Suicide rate has increased significantly.
They’re coming back with post-traumatic stress disorders that we
need to work on. We have a problem right now with respect to
sexual assaults within the military. And I’ve been in touch with
my military colleagues, the guys who replaced me many years ago.
And they understand that this has to of getting this kind of
problem under control, and doing everything we can to get into
the lives of these returning veterans and see if they’re having
difficulties readjusting, or family problems. What can we do to
help them?  HUNT: Is it part of the problem they’re stretched a bit too
thin?  POWELL: Two conflicts, Iraq and Afghanistan, constant
turnaround. They were stretched thin and in the early days it
was several years after 2001 we did not make it really to
increase the size of the force for the increased demands being
placed on the force. And now in fact we are going to start
reducing the force again as a result of budgetary issues, but
also because these two conflicts they’re drawing to a close,
Iraq having drawn to a close.  HUNT: You mentioned the sexual-assault issue. Should
military people who are convicted of sexual assault be
automatically dishonorably discharged?  POWELL: So you can’t make a categorical statement like
that. We have a military justice system that is driven by our
law. And it is not that dissimilar to the civilian system.  HUNT: Is it working?  POWELL: I think it is working. There will always be a case
where somebody disagrees with a judgment made by somebody in the
appellate decision. Well let’s examine that, but let’s not toss
out a system that I think has worked very, very well over the
years.  I have been in that position as a commander. I have been in
the appellate authority. I had decided who should get tried and
who not get tried. And I can tell you in my experience as a
commander we take it very, very seriously. We have grand jury
type proceedings called Article 32 proceedings. And we are very
careful before we bring charges. And then we work to make sure
that we are representing the government’s interest well and also
representing the interests of the defendant as well.  HUNT: We’re going to take a short break now, but we’ll be
right back with Colin Powell at the Vietnam Memorial.  (BREAK)  HUNT: We’re back in front of the Vietnam Memorial with
General Colin Powell. And, General, President Obama gave a
speech to the National Defense University, in which he said we
had al-Qaeda on the run and now it’s time to redefine the war on
terrorism, including narrowing the authorization of the use of
force since pro depth 9/11. What did you think of his speech?  POWELL: I thought it was a very important speech. I think
it was a very balanced speech. He made it clear that there are
still enemies out there that we have to deal with, but we have
to be more careful of the use of force, especially with respect
to drones.  Drones are a very, very effective weapon and we will
continue to use them, but in a more circumscribed manner to make
sure that we are going after the high value targets that present
a real immediate threat to us. One of the problems with using
drones too widely was sort of laid out today by a Pakistani
senior officer. He said if you make a mistake and you end up
killing 10 or 15 villagers or 20 villagers, in addition to the
person you were after, you have created 20 new enemies to the
 United States of America .  Their families will seek revenge. And he said, and the
Pakistani Army gets blamed for being complicit with all of this.
And so I think the president has set out some circumstance.  HUNT: So the right balance -  POWELL: So I think it’s the right balance, but I think it’s
now important for the Congress to take a look at this. And I
think it would be very, very valuable for the Congress to make
their own judgments on it. And I would like to see a national
policy that reflects both commander-in-chief’s responsibilities
and point of view and the Congress’ responsibilities and point
of view.  HUNT: Should drone programs be run by the Pentagon or by
the CIA?  POWELL: I believe the Pentagon. The CIA didn’t do this kind
of targeted assassination just a few years ago. And then because
of 9/11 and what we were going through for the last years, they
took more and more responsibility.  HUNT: Should we shift right away?  POWELL: Yes. The application of states’ military force
should be done by the military leaders in the  Department of
Defense . This doesn’t mean the CIA has nothing to do with it.
The intelligence will come from the CIA and other sources and
then be fed into the Department of Defense. So I think that’s
the sensible thing to do.  HUNT: The president mentioned  Syria . Should the United
States do more to help topple the dictator, Assad? If so what -
and how does that fit in with a Colin Powell axiom if you break
it down?  POWELL: Well I think that’s a pretty good axiom. And I
think what the president is doing and what most of the other
allies are doing of providing humanitarian support, and as
Secretary Kerry is to then trying to create a diplomatic
environment that will permit a political solution, but I think
we have to be very, very careful with some of, well let’s just
go in and start bombing, let’s just go in and -  HUNT: In no-fly zone?  POWELL: - in the no-fly zone. I wouldn’t like the no-fly
zone. If you want to take out the Syrian  air force , take it out.
Don’t just fly around in circles waiting for them to come up.
That won’t be hard to do.  But you have to understand if that doesn’t work, are you
committed to then take the next steps? So I think this is the
time for caution. And the other really unknown element in all of
this is what comes after Assad? I have no use for President
Assad. I’ve negotiated with him. He’s a pathological liar. You
can’t trust anything that he says.  So I’ve got no trust for him, but at the time I’m not sure
what replaces him. And the conflict will not be over just
because he suddenly walks away. I think a new conflict will
emerge and we’ll have to determine what role we will play in
resolving that.  HUNT: And on Benghazi we know tragically four Americans
were killed. There was inaccurate security. We probably couldn’t
have gotten forces in there anyway. Is this just an unfortunate
incident and which would have involved later a turf battle
between the CIA and the big department of communications, and
move on and -  POWELL: And there have been so many issues like this where
you always have to accept some risk if you want to get the job
done -  HUNT: Right.  POWELL: - as an ambassador or the military. And in this
case I would be looking at two things. One, did we know enough
beforehand to understand that we were putting the ambassador and
the others into two great an environment of risk? And did the
ambassador make, and his team, make the correct assessment of
the risk they were in?  But you know, if you’re going to get the job done you have
to accept risk. All the chatter about the talking points, I
don’t care about the talking points, I don’t care about the
talking points or who said what to whom. I’m more interested in
what was known before with respect to the risks they were about
to accept and what was done on the ground to negate that risk.
That’s what we ought to be looking at.  HUNT:  Well the question is when we do that, get the facts
out, we’ll basically move on, or is this a full-fledged scandal
which requires a special congressional investigation?  POWELL: I don’t think it’s a full-fledged scandal if all
you want to do is look at who said what on the talking points.
Talking points in the government, as you probably gathered, is
kind of like making sausage. Everybody has an equity.  HUNT: Right.  POWELL: And everybody wants a position. Everybody wants to
add something or take out something, but I don’t think the
talking points are as important out of the intelligence
assessment that was made before, the university assessment that
was made and the  risk assessment  that was made on the ground.
That’s what I would want to be sure we don’t make the mistake
doing it again.  HUNT: You appreciate the danger of leaks. You also
appreciate the role of a free press. As you read these stories
about the  Associated Press ,  Fox News , the New York Times and
others, are you worried that that is a fair balance, or are we
doing the task -  POWELL: Is it at a balance or being brought back in
balance? I have always believed that as a government official,
secretary of state or in my military career, I had an obligation
to the American people to account for them or would have removed
it, better do it in a way that makes sure that they knew what we
were doing, but at the same time to do it in a way to protect
secrets because it allows their sons and daughters who are at
risk.  HUNT: Yes.  POWELL: There were leaks that put them at risk. And so I
think the press has the same responsibility to inform the
American public. And the press always wants to get more
information out of me than I wanted to give them. So we always
have to find the right balance so then for those that thank you.  Well, we both have the same motivation to educate the
public and to inform the public about what we’ve been doing for
them. And so some of the things I’ve been reading about lately
with respect to the AP or Fox News, I think that’s perhaps over
the line.  HUNT: Finally, you endorsed  Barack Obama  again in 2012. How
has he done at the start of his second term and what would you
like to see him do differently?  POWELL: Well I think that he has done reasonably well. The
economy is improving. It’s kind of hard to debate that when the
stock market is approaching 16,000, and something I never would
have believed. When you see the employment rate start to drive
down, and in my travels around the country I see more and more
people getting involved in the economy again, versus describing
them off the sidelines. And so I think that is the major
challenge he had. And I think he ought to keep focusing on it.
As many people have said, we have got to fix our fiscal
situation and our economy if we’re going to be able to do
anything else in the world.  With respect to immigration that remains to be seen. I hope
that succeeds. With respect to  gun control , my advice to him
would have been go for background checks three days after it has
to be in  Connecticut . Don’t wait a two weeks for an opposition
to be raised against it and make it impossible to get that.  HUNT: General Colin Powell, what a perfect setting. And
thank you so much for being with us today.  POWELL: And this wonderful wall receives more visitors than
just about any other place in  Washington .  HUNT: And it is extraordinary.  POWELL: And as you said at the early part of the show, it
was not universally liked when they first saw the design. And
Brigadier General George Price, one of my mentors, a black
general, when he heard someone criticize it the black gash, well
what’s wrong with a black gash? It is marvelous, and it is a
beautiful thing and it is inspired. The architect who did it,
Maya Lin, if you read the proposal she set forth, it was an
inspired piece of work.  HUNT: General Powell, thank you.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 