-- Sudanese Presidents Agree on Border Dispute to Speed Oil Exports
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-05-25T10:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/sudanese-presidents-agree-on-border-dispute-to-speed-oil-exports.html
South Sudanese oil may arrive at
Sudan’s  Red Sea  port by the end of this month after the two
nations’ leaders met yesterday to resolve border issues that
delayed the resumption of exports, Sudan’s Foreign Minister Ali Karti said.  The blocking of crossing points by  South Sudan  at Jodha and
Heglig affected the flow because engineers and equipment could
not move freely, Karti said yesterday in Ethiopia’s capital
 Addis Ababa , where Sudan’s President Umar al-Bashir and South
Sudan’s Salva Kiir met during an African Union summit.  “They agreed on upgrading the level of coordination on the
borders to be left to ministers of defense,” Karti said.  South Sudan resumed production of crude last month after it
stopped pumping in January 2012, accusing neighboring  Sudan  of
stealing $815 million of its oil, which Sudan said it took to
recover unpaid transport and processing fees. That and other
disputes, including over border security, brought the countries
to the brink of war a year ago.  Oil production might be affected if the location of the two
border points are not agreed on, South Sudan’s Foreign Minister
Nhial Deng Nhial said in an interview. The problem shouldn’t
have prevented exports resuming after South Sudan pumped crude
at the rate of as much as 150,000 barrels a day since May 3, he
said in Addis Ababa yesterday.  “I believe there are sufficient quantities of oil in the
system for oil lifting at  Port Sudan  to start anyway,” Nhial
said.  Rebel Support  Before the stoppage, South Sudan produced as much as
350,000 barrels of oil a day, which generated 98 percent of
government revenue. The crude is pumped mainly by China National
Petroleum Corp., Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s
 ONGC Videsh Ltd. (ONGC) , before being transported via pipelines through
Sudan to Port Sudan on the Red Sea.  South Sudan restated its position that it is offering no
support to rebels opposed to Bashir’s government, Nhial said.  President Kiir assured Bashir he’d act if he found evidence
of any rebel support, Karti said.  “It was agreed that both parties should focus on freeing
themselves from being connected to negative elements,” he said.  There was no progress on agreeing a process for deciding
who the disputed region of Abyei belongs to, Nhial said.  A temporary administration and security forces should be
established in Abyei before discussions on the final status of
the area resume, Karti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  