-- U.K. Police Question Two After Pakistan Air 777 Flight Diverted
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-05-25T12:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/u-k-police-question-two-after-pakistan-air-777-flight-diverted.html
Two men are being questioned by
police on suspicion of endangering an aircraft after a U.K.-
bound Pakistan International Airlines Corp. jet was diverted
yesterday to London Stansted airport.  Police boarded flight PK709 from Lahore at Stansted, the
U.K.’s designated counter-terrorism airport, and arrested two
British nationals after reports the men had argued with crew
members and repeatedly attempted to enter the cockpit.  “Detectives from the Kent & Essex Serious Crime
Directorate are continuing to interview two men, aged 30 and 41,
after they were arrested yesterday (Friday) on suspicion of
endangerment of an aircraft,” a spokesman for Essex police said
in an e-mailed statement today.  The flight was scheduled to land in Manchester, northern
 England , at 1:30 p.m. local time, Manchester Airports Group
spokesman John Greenway said yesterday. PIA said air traffic
controllers ordered a diversion after being contacted by the
jet’s pilots when the two men quarreled with crew.  “The cabin crew informed us that basically they tried to
come into the cockpit a few times and because they had been
asked not to do that, they got into a bit of an argument with
the crew and made a few threats,” Umari Nauman, one of the 297
people on board, told Sky News. All the passengers were ordered
to leave their possessions on board before leaving the plane,
she said.  An initial search of the airliner found no suspicious
items, Essex police Superintendent Darrin Tomkins told reporters
yesterday. Today’s statement said the rest of the passengers
were allowed back onto the aircraft with their luggage at around
midnight, and they continued with their journey to Manchester.  “The passengers returned to the aircraft after they had
spoken to police, and officers, working with the airport
authorities, had checked the Boeing 777 airliner,” the
statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  