-- Union Pacific, Burlington Trains Collide in Missouri; 7 Injured
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2013-05-25T16:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/union-pacific-burlington-trains-collide-in-missouri-7-injured.html
Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  and Burlington
Northern Santa Fe LLC trains collided in southeastern Missouri
early today, sparking a fire and the collapse of an overpass,
the companies said.  Seven people were injured, most of them in two vehicles
that were on the Highway M overpass in Rockview, Missouri, when
it collapsed, KFVS TV  reported . Rockview is about 126 miles
southeast of  St. Louis .  A team from the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board
is expected at the site today to begin an investigation.  The Burlington Northern train was struck about eight cars
behind the locomotive as it headed south, spokesman Andy
Williams said. No one on the train, which was hauling scrap
metal, was hurt, he said.  Union Pacific spokeswoman Calli Hite said at least 12 cars
on the Union Pacific train derailed. The train was headed west
to Arlington,  Texas , carrying automobiles on rack cars and
boxcars filled with automotive parts, she said.  Two employees on the train were hurt, though treated and
released, she said.  Burlington Northern owns the track its train was traveling
on, and Union Pacific owns its track, said Hite. She said she
didn’t have any indication yet on the damage to the tracks or
how long service might be disrupted.  The Scott County Sheriff’s Department didn’t immediately
respond to a voice mail left by  Bloomberg News  seeking comment.
Sheriff Rick Walter told KFVS, the CBS TV affiliate in nearby
Cape Girardeau, Missouri, that five people were injured in the
two vehicles when the overpass collapsed.  The NTSB investigates major transportation accidents in the
U.S. Other NTSB teams are at work in  Connecticut , where two
commuter trains crashed last week, and in Washington state,
where two days ago an interstate highway bridge collapsed after
a truck hit a girder. 