-- Yen Climbs Amid Speculation on Fed Stimulus; Aussie Dollar Drops
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-05-25T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-25/yen-climbs-amid-speculation-on-fed-stimulus-aussie-dollar-drops.html
The yen rallied the most in a year
against the dollar as speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will
reduce stimulus that has boosted global markets spurred declines
in riskier assets that may have risen too far, too fast.  Japan’s currency climbed against all of its 16 most-traded
peers this week as Fed officials gave conflicting signals on
sustaining their bond buying, while Japanese policy makers kept
their unprecedented stimulus in place. Stocks in Japan plunged.
 Australia ’s dollar slid as data showed manufacturing contracted
in  China , the nation’s biggest trade partner. U.S. consumer
spending stalled, a report next week may show.  “The correction in Japanese equities brought with it a
correction in dollar-yen,” Robert Sinche, global strategist at
Pierpont Securities in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said yesterday in
a phone interview. “A lot of this was excess in markets looking
for a reason to reverse. The yen was part of that process.”  The yen advanced 1.9 percent to 101.31 per dollar this week
in New York, the biggest drop since the five days ended June 1,
2012. It had touched 103.74 on May 22, the weakest level since
October 2008. Against the euro, the Japanese currency gained 1.1
percent to 131.01. The greenback dropped  0.7 percent against
the euro to $1.2932, its first weekly decline since May 3.  Japan ’s currency slid 17 percent in the past six months
versus nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
pledged to stem 15 years of deflation and the Bank of Japan
doubled monthly bond purchases. The euro rose 4 percent, and the
dollar appreciated 4.3 percent.  Net Shorts  Futures traders increased their bets to the most since July
2007 that the yen will fall against the dollar, data from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other big
speculators on a decline in the yen versus those on a gain,
known as net shorts, was 95,186 on May 21, compared with 88,407
a week earlier.  Traders increased wagers the pound will fall against the
greenback to the most since at least 1992. Net-short bets
totaled 76,976 on May 21, compared with 65,355 a week earlier.  South Africa’s rand and the Mexican peso were the biggest
losers against the dollar this week. The rand dropped 1.8
percent on concern labor unrest will curb the nation’s growth,
and the peso lost 1.5 percent amid bets the Fed will curtail
stimulus, which has boosted emerging-market assets.  Aussie Falls  Australia’s currency lost for a third week as commodities
slumped, with the Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 raw
materials sinking 1.2 percent, and a gauge of Chinese factory
output in May fell. The central bank cut its key interest  rate 
on May 7 by a quarter-percentage point to 2.75 percent.  The Aussie dollar weakened 0.8 percent to 96.52 U.S. cents
and touched 95.94 cents on May 23, the weakest since June 1.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke testified in Congress May 22
the U.S. central bank may decide at its next few meetings to
slow bond purchases if it’s confident of sustained gains in the
economy. At the same time, he said a premature tightening of
monetary policy might imperil the economic recovery.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt
each month to cap borrowing costs, and has held its key interest
 rate  at virtually zero since 2008 to support the economy.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, rose on the day after Bernanke’s comments to
84.498, the highest since July 2010. Benchmark Treasury  10-year (USGG10YR) 
note yields climbed to 2.07 percent, a 10-week high.  Market Reaction  “While I’m personally a bit concerned the dollar might
have run too far, too fast, that really depends how interest-rate markets react,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in
Stamford, Connecticut, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“As expectations for tightening interest rates in the short
term get priced in for the future, then that should push long-term interest rates higher.”  The JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index, based on three-month
futures options on Group of Seven nations’ currencies, touched
10.1 percent on May 23, the most since Feb. 27. The average over
the past year is 8.8 percent.  Markets tend to become more unstable as investors and
traders try to assess the degree and timing of changes in U.S.
central-bank stimulus, Pierpont’s Sinche said. “At turning
points, there’s always more volatility,” he said.  Japanese Stocks  Japan’s  Topix Index (TPX)  of stocks plunged 6.9 percent May 23,
the biggest drop since March 2011, after touching the highest
since 2008. The gauge’s 14-day  relative strength  index had
exceeded 70, the level some traders see as a signal an asset has
increased too much, too quickly, every day since May 10. Ten-year Japanese government bond yields rose to 1 percent for the
first time since April 2012.  Stocks pared losses and yields trimmed increases as BOJ
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said the central bank had announced
sufficient monetary easing and will implement flexible money-market operations.  The euro gained as the Ifo institute’s German business-climate index improved to 105.7 from 104.4 in April. A Bloomberg
survey had predicted it would remain unchanged. GfK AG said its
consumer-sentiment index will increase to 6.5 next month from
6.2 in May. That would be the highest since September 2007.  While risks stemming from Europe’s debt crisis persist, the
German economy, Europe’s biggest, will gather pace in the
current quarter, the Bundesbank said this week.  Financial markets in the U.S. and U.K. will be shut for
public holidays on May 27.  U.S. consumer spending was stagnant in April, economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast before the Commerce Department
reports the data on May 31. Spending rose 0.2 percent in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  