-- 40 Years After Embargo, OPEC Is Over a Barrel
-- B y   M e g h a n   L .   O ’ S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-10-17T14:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/40-years-after-embargo-opec-is-over-a-barrel.html
Today marks the 40th anniversary of
the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries embargo
against the U.S. and states that supported  Israel  after  Egypt 
and  Syria  initiated simultaneous offensives against it on Yom
Kippur in 1973. While it’s not an anniversary that many will
celebrate, it’s a good opportunity to reflect on how much more
secure our energy situation is, despite our continued heavy
reliance on fossil fuels.  Most commentators have focused, with good reason, on the
West’s greatly enhanced ability to withstand similar shocks were
they to occur today. Equally important, although generally
overlooked, is the reality that OPEC has no incentive or real
ability to inflict them on the world.  Go to OPEC’s website and you will be greeted not by
articles remembering the havoc the organization caused in the
name of Arab unity 40 years ago, but by a  banner touting 
“Communication and cooperation.” That much of the Western
world is remembering the embargo this week, while OPEC makes no
mention of it, is not an effort by the organization to disguise
its latent power and ambitions. Rather, it is almost
inconceivable that OPEC would start such an embargo today.  Changed Mideast  Why? First, the 1973 embargo, for all the bedlam it caused,
didn’t work. The stated goal was ending Western support for
Israel in the Yom Kippur War, and that didn’t happen. Second,
the global political landscape has changed remarkably. What
issue would inspire OPEC -- and Saudi Arabia in particular -- to
take such measures against the U.S. and its other closest
allies? The  fault lines  in the  Middle East  are much less stark
than in 1973, when no Arab country had yet made peace with
Israel.  While we cannot rule out “black swan” events, the two
most explosive issues in the Middle East don’t even pit Israel
against its Arab neighbors. Saudi Arabia’s biggest concerns in
the region are Syria and Iran. The Saudis, although
unsuccessful, actually sought to garner Arab support for U.S.
strikes against Syria in the wake of the Bashar al-Assad
regime’s  use of chemical weapons .  Iran, and its pursuit of a nuclear weapon, is an even
greater source of Arab unease. One hopes a sound and enduring
solution can be found through negotiations, such as those just
held between Iranian and Western diplomats in  Switzerland . But
if not, although Arabs may not cheer the use of American (or
even Israeli) force against Iran, many will see it as preferable
to living with a nuclear-armed regime in Tehran.  Third, the most powerful OPEC members don’t want to see
huge spikes in oil prices. There are still “price hawks”
within the organization: countries such as Iran and  Venezuela ,
which see a higher price of oil as their only path to greater
revenue, given constraints on increasing their production. But
OPEC as a whole learned some powerful lessons from the 1973
embargo. The 1980s oil glut, and the correspondingly low oil
prices, was directly related to the price spikes of 1973 and
1979. This contributed to the “stagflation” that plagued
Western economies and tempered their demand for oil.  The 1973 crisis also launched widespread efforts in the
West to find and develop “non-OPEC” oil, to increase  energy
efficiency , and to bring alternative sources of energy online.
OPEC has no self-interest in tanking the fragile economic
recoveries of today with high  oil prices  -- or in further
catalyzing the already vigorous pursuit of non-oil energy
sources.  Finally, re-creating a 1973-type oil embargo would require
OPEC to take oil production off the entire market, not just ban
its export to specific countries. OPEC’s decision then to reduce
oil production by 5 percent per month is what caused the embargo
to pinch; this was in contrast to the two largely unremarkable
oil embargoes undertaken in 1956 and 1967, which simply barred
exports to specific countries, resulting in initial hiccups that
were quickly and relatively inexpensively resolved through the
redirection of oil trade.  Avoiding Unrest  A commitment to an across-the-board reduction today would
require a level of discipline and coordination that may be
beyond OPEC’s capabilities. Unlike the 1970s, when the annual
oil revenue of many OPEC countries exceeded their immediate and
pressing costs, most OPEC countries today need all the revenue
they can get to meet their budgets. In the wake of the Arab
revolutions, governments are wary of measures that would require
reining in the generous social and other expenditures seen as
necessary to stave off political unrest. While  Saudi Arabia  has
the discipline to bear the burden of cutting oil production each
month, it also has grave concerns about steps that could
jeopardize overall revenue -- and invite political instability
to the kingdom.  All this is not to say that OPEC will never use the “oil
weapon” again. But if I had to put money on it, I’d say the
cartel is far more likely to increase global oil supply for
political reasons than it is to restrict it. Fixated on avoiding
a repeat of 1973, most of us tend not to appreciate that OPEC --
and, again, Saudi Arabia in particular -- has more recently used
its ability to lower the price of oil to achieve political
objectives than it has to raise it.  In the 1980s, the Saudis upped production to force down the
price of oil in part to punish the  Soviet Union  for its invasion
of  Afghanistan , which many analysts saw as a Soviet push toward
the warm waters of the  Persian Gulf . In the 1990s, the Saudis
did the same to discipline Venezuela for its efforts to greatly
expand its domestic production.  Shale Threat  Why might Saudi Arabia or OPEC as a whole take such an
approach today? Two possibilities seem plausible. First, they
may see putting further economic pressure on  Iran  as
instrumental in getting Tehran to abandon its nuclear pursuits.
Given how sanctions have already put enormous pressure on Iran,
I’d consider this a low probability.  Second, and despite rhetoric to the contrary, the countries
of OPEC (not just Saudi Arabia) are surely nervous about the
boom in U.S. shale oil production. They may decide that this
surge will remain limited to the U.S. and that production there
will taper off in the 2020s. If so, OPEC may just need to
weather a few difficult years, with member countries drawing on
their reserves in the face of lower oil prices induced by this
additional supply.  However, these are pretty big assumptions on which to bank
your survival, especially considering the constant technological
advances of the industry. If shale oil turns out to be a bigger
and longer-lasting threat, OPEC faces an existential challenge.
Some in the organization must at least be attracted to the idea
that a pre-emptive surge in OPEC oil production now could lower
the cost of oil worldwide, undermining the incentive for
expanding unconventional oil production.  For OPEC, the challenge comes back to the questions of will
and capability. First, many countries, facing the political
constraints of the post-Arab Spring era, are not going to be
willing to risk the possibility of decreased revenues. While a
few might be able to capitalize on the higher demand that would
inevitably come with lower oil prices, most would simply be
faced with less revenue. Even Saudi Arabia would be nervous
about initiating something that might get out of control; the
1980s and 1990s are testimony to how such a strategy is an art,
not a science. In addition, there are legitimate questions about
how much sustainable spare capacity OPEC has now. Saudi Arabia
could produce more than the  10 million barrels a day  it is
tapping now, but it is unclear how long it could maintain higher
production.  In short, there is little reason to worry about a repeat
performance of a politically inspired OPEC embargo in which
global oil supply is gradually and systematically cut each
month. Even the opposite -- a conscious effort to force down the
price of oil -- is unlikely.  If we want to worry about OPEC, there are certainly
scenarios worthy of our concerns. Large quantities of OPEC oil
could come off the market in future months and years, but it
will not be the result of an intentional use of “the oil
weapon” by OPEC, but rather the result of domestic instability
in Gulf countries. It is this possibility -- not a repeat of
1973 -- which should generate angst.  (Meghan L. O’Sullivan, a professor at Harvard University’s
Kennedy School of Government and former deputy national security
adviser in the George W. Bush administration, is a Bloomberg
View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Meghan L. O’Sullivan at  Meghan_OSullivan@hks.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 