-- Magyar Telekom to Stem Cash Flow Drop in 2014, Mattheisen Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-10-17T10:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/magyar-telekom-to-stem-cash-flow-drop-in-2014-mattheisen-says.html
Magyar Telekom Nyrt., Hungary’s
former phone monopoly, may see a slide in cash flow bottom out
next year, helping the company move ahead with acquisitions,
Chief Executive Officer Christopher Mattheisen said.  The fixed-line and mobile carrier, controlled by  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , is on the lookout to buy domestic cable and IT
companies and remains interested in acquiring a stake in Telekom
Slovenije DD when it comes up for sale, Mattheisen said. Magyar
Telekom will also vie in a state tender for mobile frequencies
and review its dividend policy once it knows more of the sale’s
details, he said.  “The free cash flow decline will bottom out in 2014,
assuming big-ticket items such as the mobile frequency sale
takes place this year or next,” Mattheisen said in an interview
yesterday.  The Budapest-based company is struggling to reverse a
decline in  profitability  as special taxes in Hungary and weak
economic performance in central and eastern  Europe  take a toll
on profits.  Its shares were little changed at 294 forint at 12:25 p.m.
in Budapest, keeping this year’s fall of 21.6 percent stable
after hitting a record low of 287 forint on Oct. 14. That
compares with a 30.2 percent drop in the share price of
Telekomunikacja Polska SA and a 0.2 percent increase in Czech
peer Telefonica Czech Republic AS’s stock price this year.  Telekom Slovenije  Slovenia approved the sale of state-owned assets to prop up
its budget in June. It is picking advisers for the sale of 72.7
percent in Telekom Slovenije after it canceled a previous
attempt to sell it in March, 2008. Mattheisen said Magyar
Telekom would still be interested.  “Most of the basic business reasons why it would have made
sense for us to buy Telekom Slovenije in 2007 still hold true
now,” he said.  Hungary  is also seeking to sell all of its state-owned
mobile frequencies. The media authority, known as Nmhh, will
start tender procedures this year, Nmhh Deputy Director Gabor
Matrai said on Sept. 6.  Magyar Telekom can make use of “any or all” of the
frequencies that may come on sale, and the company’s dividend
after the 2013 business year hinges on the tender’s timing and
scope, Mattheisen said.  “A decision of whether we reduce the dividend or suspend
it will have to be made, but this is still ahead of us” he
said. “Buying frequencies would mean a bigger hit in the short
run from a cash-flow perspective, but in the longer run it
generates value for the operator and the customers.”  Ebitda Outlook  The tender comes after a Budapest court annulled results
last year of a previous sale, citing “serious procedural law
infringements.” The regulator awarded a fourth mobile license
in January 2012 to a group of state-owned companies and Magyar
Telekom, along with local units of Vodafone Plc and Telenor ASA,
appealed the result.  Magyar Telekom “had no indication” whether the state-owned mobile company intended to take part in the new frequency
sales, Mattheisen said, adding that he’d be surprised if a new
commercial competitor tried to enter the market.  Magyar Telekom sees earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, an indicator closely watched by
analysts and investors, dropping as much as 8 percent next year
compared with 2012. That will follow a 9 percent to 12 percent
decline this year, and it sees Ebitda once again exceeding this
year’s level by 2017, according to management guidance published
on Sept. 30.  Dividend Policy  The company will maintain its dividend policy based on a
targeted net debt-to-capital ratio of between 30 percent and 40
percent, it said in September. The 41.8 percent debt ratio
recorded at the end of June is a seasonal spike, Mattheisen
said, declining to say where it may stand at the year-end.  “I don’t want to make any irreversible structural changes
to my business” to reduce the debt ratio, he said.  Magyar Telekom’s second-quarter Ebitda rose 0.3 percent to
49.6 billion forint ($229 million) from a year earlier and net
income climbed an annual 14 percent to 12.2 billion forint.  Sales will grow by a 2 percent compound annual growth rate
by 2017 with almost a fifth of revenues coming from non-telecommunications activities including energy sales and
insurance by then, Mattheisen said.  Energy sales to households won’t be unprofitable even after
a second-round of government-mandated utility price cuts come
into effect on Nov. 1 after recently modified legislation
provides a level-playing-field for all service providers on
energy market, Mattheisen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  