-- AIA Advances to Record on New Business Growth: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-10-18T08:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/aia-group-value-of-new-business-rises-26-in-third-quarter.html
AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the  second-largest 
Asia-based insurer by market value,  rose  to a record in Hong
Kong trading after its value of new business climbed a stronger-than-expected 26 percent in the third quarter.  The insurer surged 4.4 percent, the most in more than 13
months, to close at HK$40.05. The stock, which touched HK$40.10
earlier in the day, was the  most  actively-traded stock by value
in the 50-member benchmark  Hang Seng Index  today.  AIA’s new business value, measuring projected future
profitability of new policies, increased to a record $379
million from $300 million a year earlier, the Hong Kong-based
company said in a statement to the city’s stock exchange today.
The increase beat the consensus estimate of about 20 percent,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG research note today.  Credit Suisse analysts Arjan van Veen and Frances Deng
raised the insurer’s earnings estimate this year by 9 percent,
citing in their report “subsiding macro headwinds in the last
couple of months”.  AIA has sustained a quarterly  rise  of more than 20 percent
in new business value even as currencies in several of its major
markets depreciated against the dollar amid anticipation of a
reduction of monetary stimulus in the U.S. The insurer sells
policies in local currencies and reports its financial results
in dollars.  “Debate over the timing of supportive U.S. monetary policy
caused capital market volatility in the third quarter and tested
those countries running current account deficits,” AIA’s
management said in today’s statement. “Asian central banks
responded appropriately.”  Asian Currencies  Larger regional economies continue to benefit from a shift
toward domestic sources of growth and the more trade-dependent
markets will benefit from a pickup in global trade as a result
of an improved economic outlook in  China  and  Japan , AIA said in
the statement.  Depreciating Southeast Asian currencies may moderate AIA’s
new business value growth over the short term, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analysts Mancy Sun and Yao Lu wrote in an Oct. 16
report. AIA generates about half of its new business value
growth from  Southeast Asia , they said.  The Thai bhat and  Singapore  dollar have depreciated more
than 1.3 percent against the dollar this year.  Thailand , which
has seen a widening current-account deficit, and Singapore are
AIA’s second- and third-largest markets by new business value in
the first half, behind Hong Kong.  ING Purchase  The currency in  Malaysia , where AIA completed a $1.7
billion  acquisition  of ING Groep NV’s business in December to
become the largest life insurer in the market, lost 3 percent of
its value against the dollar this year.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
warned earlier this month that emerging  Asia ’s medium-term
economic growth faces risks from the reduction of monetary
stimulus by the U.S. Federal Reserve. Exchange-rate fluctuations
and rapidly rising wages in Southeast Asia and China may curb
demand from advanced economies for their manufacturing exports
over the next five years, it added.  AIA’s annualized new premium, the sum of first-year
premiums and 10 percent of single-premiums, grew 21 percent to
$839 million, it said.  New business margin, or the value of new business as a
percentage of annualized new premium, expanded by 2.1 percentage
points to 44.7 percent on improved product mix.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  