-- Amarin Tumbles After Fish Oil Pill Fails to Win Backing
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-10-17T20:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/amarin-tumbles-after-fish-oil-pill-fails-to-win-backing.html
Amarin Corp. (AMRN)  lost more than half its
value after the company failed to win the backing of U.S.
advisers to expand use of its  fish-oil  pill Vascepa for those
with high levels of fat in their blood.  Amarin’s American depositary receipts fell 61 percent to
$2.01 at 4 p.m.  New York  time, their biggest loss since April
2007. Amarin had already dropped 54 percent in the 12 months
through Oct. 15. Trading was halted yesterday during the
advisory panel meeting.  The Food and Drug Administration panel voted 9-2 yesterday
that Amarin should complete a study on the drug’s ability to
benefit the heart before an approval decision for patients with
high triglycerides. The FDA is scheduled to decide whether to
clear the drug for wider use by Dec. 20.  “Let’s see the results in an outcomes trial,” Peter
Wilson, a panel member and professor at Emory University’s
School of Medicine in Atlanta, said during the meeting. “That’s
really where the proof is, in the pudding, in my view.”  The agency doesn’t have to follow the panel’s advice. The
FDA had cleared the prescription-grade omega-3 fatty acid last
year to treat “very high” triglycerides, a measure of fat in
the blood.  Expanded approval would give Dublin-based Amarin access to
36 million potential U.S. customers who have elevated
triglycerides, or nine times the pool of people with severely
high levels. The company is seeking to treat high triglyceride
patients on statin therapy who have low levels of good
cholesterol and coronary  heart disease .  FDA Questions  FDA staff members  questioned  Oct. 11 whether Vascepa’s
lipid-lowering effects were sufficient to move ahead with
approval based on recent clinical trials and meta-analyses that
have failed to confirm a heart benefit from the lipid lowering.
Triglycerides and cholesterol are separate types of lipids, or
fat in the blood, according to the  Mayo Clinic .  Amarin, run from Bedminster,  New Jersey , declined 20
percent Oct. 11 after the release of the staff’s report, the
biggest drop for the company’s ADRs in more than three years.  The FDA originally agreed with Amarin in 2008 that the
company needed only to have the cardiovascular outcomes trial
under way, not completed, when it sought approval for people
with high triglycerides.  “The critical question which patients care about is,
ultimately, will the observed changes in lipids/lipoproteins
with Vascepa treatment in statin-treated patients translate into
a benefit on cardiovascular outcomes,” Mary Roberts, a medical
officer at FDA, said during the meeting. “This question is not
new, but now we have more data.”  Study’s Cost  Amarin is studying Vascepa’s ability to reduce
cardiovascular events.  The company estimates key costs of $30 million to $40
million this year related to the study and “costs continue to
be fairly significant for a good portion of next year,”
President John Thero, said on a conference call yesterday after
the panel meeting. Amarin expects to complete enrollment of
8,000 patients in 2015 and finish the trial in 2017, he said.  An interim analysis of the trial could happen near the end
of 2015, Steven Ketchum, president of research and development
at Amarin, said on the call.  Sales of Vascepa, the company’s sole product, may reach
$1.2 billion in 2017, according to the average of five analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s revenue is
estimated to total $36 million this year.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s fish oil pill Lovaza was approved in
2004 for patients with very high triglycerides. Very high
triglyceride levels measure at least 500 milligrams per
deciliter. High triglycerides are those from 200 milligrams to
500 milligrams per deciliter.  Stores such as  GNC Holdings Inc. (GNC)  and  Vitamin Shoppe Inc. (VSI) 
sell non-prescription dietary supplements containing fish oil.
It would take 10 to 40 of such omega-3 capsules to equal the
pure fatty acid obtained from “wild deep-water  Pacific Ocean 
fish,” according to the company’s website for Vascepa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  