-- AMD Forecasts Sales That May Trail Estimates on PC Slump
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-10-17T21:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/amd-forecasts-sales-that-may-fall-short-of-estimates-on-pc-slump.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  forecast
fourth-quarter sales that may miss analysts’ estimates as orders
for game-console chips fail to outweigh a decline in the
personal-computer market, where AMD competes with  Intel Corp. (INTC)   Revenue will rise by 5 percent, plus or minus 3 percentage
points, from the third quarter’s $1.46 billion, the company said
today in a statement. That indicates fourth-quarter sales of as
little as $1.49 billion, while analysts on  average  estimated
$1.52 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Rory Read is trying to recast AMD
as a maker of custom chips that bundle graphics and other
capabilities. While that strategy has won orders from Microsoft
Corp., Sony Corp. and Nintendo Co. in video-game machines, most
of AMD’s revenue comes from PCs, a shrinking business where
Intel has rolled out cheaper products to grab market share.  “Intel is obviously taking share at the low end,” said
Ada Menaker, an analyst at  Stamford , Connecticut-based MKM
Partners. She has the equivalent of a hold  rating  on AMD stock.  AMD’s  shares , which have risen 70 percent this year on
optimism that its console business would take off, dropped 8.3
percent to $3.75 in extended trading following the announcement.
The stock was unchanged at $4.09 at the close in  New York .  Third Quarter  Third-quarter  net  income was $48 million, or 6 cents a
share, compared with a loss in the year-ago period, Sunnyvale,
California-based AMD said. Sales rose 15 percent, the first
quarterly increase from a year earlier since 2011. Excluding
certain costs, AMD had profit of 4 cents a share. On that basis,
analysts on average had  estimated  profit of 2 cents on sales of
$1.42 billion.  Worldwide PC shipments fell 8.6 percent in the third
quarter, the sixth consecutive drop, market researcher Gartner
Inc. said last week. AMD’s computing-solutions business had
sales of $790 million in the third quarter, a decline of 15
percent from a year earlier.  The third quarter historically has been the strongest
period of the year for PC-processor demand as computer makers
stock up on chips ahead of the  holiday shopping season . Yet
AMD’s PC division sales were 6.1 percent lower than the unit’s
revenue in the second quarter. By comparison, Intel’s PC-chip
 unit sales  increased 3.5 percent in the third quarter from the
previous three months.  Margin Forecast  AMD said  gross margin , the percentage of sales remaining
after deducting production costs, will be about 35 percent in
the current period. That’s narrower than the third quarter’s 36
percent and compares with an average analyst estimate of 35.6
percent.  The company competes with Intel in processors and graphics
chips, and with  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  in the market for graphics chips
that are used in add-in cards for more powerful gaming
computers.  AMD provides processors for less than 20 percent of PCs
shipped, according to researcher IDC, with most of the balance
supplied by Intel. In graphics, AMD has about a third of the
market, behind Nvidia.  Intel, which reported earnings earlier this week, said its
PC-chip group had third-quarter sales of $8.4 billion, down 3.5
percent from a year earlier. Intel has begun selling more
powerful, cheaper chips designed for low-cost notebooks, an area
where AMD had stronger market share than it did in the broader
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  