-- American Express Surges After Beating Estimates: New York Mover
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-17T20:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/american-express-surges-after-beating-estimates-new-york-mover.html
American Express Co. (AXP)  climbed the
most since November 2011 after the credit-card lender reported a
third-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  The shares led the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) , advancing
5.1 percent to close at $80.23 in New York, a record high.  Third-quarter profit rose 9.3 percent to $1.37 billion, or
$1.25 a share, the lender said yesterday in a statement. That
beat the $1.22 average estimate of 26 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. AmEx, the biggest credit-card issuer by customer
purchases, said worldwide card spending, or billed business,
rose 7.3 percent to $236.2 billion.  This acceleration is “a clear positive for both investor
sentiment and earnings power,” Daniel Furtado, an analyst at
Jefferies Group LLC, said today in a note to clients.  American Express customers spent an average $4,037 in the
quarter, a 3.9 percent increase from a year earlier.  Provisions for loan losses increased 3 percent to $492
million, AmEx said. Total expenses climbed 5.3 percent to $5.81
billion in the quarter from the prior year. Operating expenses
were little changed in the first nine months of the year
compared with the same period in 2012. Chief Executive Officer
Kenneth I. Chenault, 62, has said he’s seeking to limit annual
operating expense growth to 3 percent.  Job Cuts  Chenault is cutting 5,400 jobs this year, mostly in travel
services, and plans to spin off part of that business. The firm
also is vying to drive more spending to its global payments
network, signing a deal in August with  Wells Fargo & Co ., which
will issue AmEx-branded cards and give the San Francisco-based
bank more options to reward customers for their loyalty.  “AmEx operates the most stable rewards program, best
positioned to continue to create value for both consumers and
shareholders for years to come,” Bill Carcache, an analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc., said last month in a research note. “Even
in the face of aggressive competitor reward campaigns, we expect
AmEx to continue to outperform.”  The lender, which issued its first traveler’s check  in
1891 , is cutting jobs as consumers and businesses rely more on
digital technology for bookings. Travel commissions and fees
rose 5.4 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier,
reversing a decline in the preceding three-month period,
according to a financial  supplement .  The company has been in talks to spin off half of its
business-travel unit and create a joint venture with Certares
International Bank LLC. An investor group led by Certares would
inject $700 million to $1 billion in return for a 50 percent
stake, AmEx said in a Sept. 25 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net  