-- AMR Profit Seen Leading Airlines in Doubling Net Income
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-10-17T20:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/amr-profit-seen-leading-airlines-in-doubling-net-income.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) 
posted third-quarter net income of $289 million today, leading
off earnings reports for U.S. carriers whose profits may have
doubled on stronger travel demand.  The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index rose to the highest level
in almost six years after AMR’s results. Net income at the six
biggest carriers will be $2.6 billion, according to Savanthi Syth, an analyst at Raymond James Financial Inc., after $1.12
billion a year earlier. She said planes stayed full into the
usually slower month of September.  “It’s not going gangbusters, but it’s healthy, which is
encouraging,” Syth said in an interview from St. Petersburg,
 Florida . “We’ll see what kind of impact the government shutdown
has. Shorter term, the industry’s OK, but that could have an
impact on demand going forward.”  AMR, stranded in bankruptcy amid a federal lawsuit to stop
its merger with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , said sales rose 6.2
percent to $6.83 billion.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , United
Continental Holdings Inc., US Airways,  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) 
and JetBlue Airways Corp. will announce results next week.  Closing the government “is not helpful” to the industry,
said AMR Chief Executive Officer Tom Horton, who didn’t quantify
the effect on the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier.  New Bookings  Bookings this quarter are “quite strong compared to this
time last year” and are up for business and leisure flying,
Horton said in an interview. “That’s why we saw the revenue
strength in the third quarter. A 6 percent increase in revenue
is a pretty big deal in this industry.”  The company’s  sales  boost was the largest since the first
quarter of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  AMR climbed 9.3 percent to $5.62 at 4 p.m. in New York in
over-the-counter trading. The airlines index gained 2.5 percent
to its highest since October 2007.  “People are watching it,” Syth said of AMR. “It lends to
how healthy the industry is. As investors focus longer term on
this industry, you want all the leaders to be doing well.”  Quarterly profit of 76 cents a share, helped by flying more
passengers at higher fares, compared with a net loss of $238
million, or 71 cents a share, a year earlier, AMR said in a
statement. Profit excluding reorganization costs and special
items rose to $530 million from $110 million a year earlier.  Demand, Capacity  American will boost seating capacity 3.5 percent this
quarter, in part due to an increase in service to South Korea,
 Mexico  and Central and South America. Capacity will rise 1.5
percent for the full year, according to the company.  “Demand for travel so far is outpacing our capacity
increase, which is good,” Horton said.  AMR is approaching the end of its second full year in
bankruptcy. It has received court approval for its plan to exit
bankruptcy by merging with US Airways pending the resolution of
a U.S. Justice Department antitrust lawsuit.  Regulators argue the combination would hurt consumers by
boosting fares, while the airlines say the merged carrier, which
would become the world’s biggest, would foster competition
because United and Delta are both larger than American and US
Airways on their own.  The U.S. industry returned to profit in 2010 after carriers
cut capacity to better match demand, reducing costs and allowing
airlines to boost fares as planes flew with more seats filled.
 Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Research Inc. analyst in New York,
estimated that the six largest carriers would post a collective
profit of $2.9 billion excluding one-time items.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  