-- Man Group Posts its First Quarterly Net Inflows in Two Years
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-10-17T16:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/man-group-clients-add-funds-increasing-assets-to-52-5-billion.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest
publicly traded hedge-fund firm, posted its first quarterly net
inflows in two years as clients added money to funds at its GLG
Partners unit.  Sales of Man Group’s funds totaled $4.1 billion in the
third quarter, exceeding $3.4 billion of redemptions, the
London-based firm said in a statement today. The $700 million
inflow bucked the predictions of analysts including Peter Lenardos of  RBC Capital Markets  in London, who had estimated
$500 million of outflows. Assets under management rose to $52.5
billion from $52 billion on June 30.  Redemptions have been slowing this year as some hedge funds
managed by GLG had positive returns and clients became less
concerned that the European sovereign debt crisis would hurt
 investment performance . Still, losses at Man Group’s biggest
fund, AHL Diversified, continue to weigh on the company after it
fell 9 percent this year through September, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Inflows were linked primarily to stronger performance in
the first half of the year and were characterized by sizeable
asset flows from certain customers, albeit into relatively low-margin products,” said Chief Executive Officer Emmanuel Roman.
“We remain cautious in our outlook for asset flows going
forward in the light of continued uncertainty in the macro-economic environment.”  Roman joined Man Group in 2010 as part of the company’s
$1.6 billion acquisition of GLG.  Shares Rise  The stock closed at 85.85 pence in  London , up 3.6 percent
on the day, for a market value of 1.6 billion pounds. The stock
is up 3.8 percent so far this year.  Investment gains at GLG hedge funds added $300 million to
assets under management in the period, with the firm’s main
equity fund rising 2.6 percent and its market-neutral fund
increasing 2.9 percent. GLG’s Japan Core Alpha Equity Fund,
which bets only on rising stock prices and charges clients lower
fees than hedge funds, gained 4.4 percent in the three months,
bringing its advance for the year to 48 percent.  AHL, a $12.5 billion hedge fund that trades interest rates,
bonds, stocks and currencies based on computer models, has been
hurt over the past three years by a lack of market trends it
relies on to make money. AHL posted its worst losses this year
in May and June when U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  surprised traders by signaling the central bank may
curtail bond buying, triggering a surge in yields. AHL’s assets
declined by 10 percent in the third quarter and have have fallen
by more than $10 billion since the end of 2010.  Guaranteed Products  Man Group also experienced a decline in guaranteed products
tied to AHL, which ensure clients won’t lose their initial
investments. Guaranteed products are the company’s most
profitable offerings because they charge the highest management
fees, according to Lenardos. Assets in such funds dwindled by
$1.7 billion in the period to $3 billion, the firm said today.  Man Group benefited from currency moves in the quarter, as
the weakening of the  U.S. dollar  against the euro and U.K. pound
added $1.2 billion to assets, according to the statement.  Roman, 50, has responded to falling assets by cutting
costs, restructuring management and buying back Man Group’s
debt. The company said it took a $60 million charge in August
for agreeing to sublet a “significant” part of its London
office. It also incurred an additional $30 million charge for
terminating employees in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  