-- Ancient Skulls Suggest One Lineage for Early Human Ancestors
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-10-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/ancient-skulls-suggests-one-lineage-for-early-human-ancestors.html
A “time capsule” from 1.8 million
years ago, located in Dmanisi,  Georgia , shows variations among
five human skulls from that period that suggest long-debated
distinctions about early human development may be overblown.  The differences between the skulls were no more than that
seen in modern humans, according to a  report today  in the
journal  Science . The findings suggest there may have been only
one species of early human in a key period of time when they
first began to migrate out of Africa, said David Lordkipanidze,
an anthropologist at the Georgian National Museum in Tbilisi and
the report’s author.  The analysis drew immediate criticism from scientists who
said other members of the hominid family --  Homo erectus , Homo
habilis, and Homo rudolfensis -- were identified using more than
just their skulls. Lordkipanidze said the Dmanisi artifacts
offer the earliest known representation outside of  Africa  of
human development after the migration.  “Dmanisi has a uniqueness: it’s a real snapshot in time, a
time capsule from 1.8 million years ago,” he said in a phone 
call with reporters.  The site, which sits below the ruins of the medieval town
of  Dmanisi , in the Mashavera River Valley, was discovered in
1983, when archaeologists studying the medieval town noticed
bones of species they knew were extinct. In 1984, ancient stone
tools were found there.  One of the five skulls found at the site recently had a
small braincase, a long face, and large teeth, features never
before seen together, according to the paper in Science. It was
discovered with four other crania from the same place and time.  ‘Strange Combination’  The skull has “a strange combination of features we didn’t
see before in early Homo,” said Marcia S. Ponce de León, a
report co-author, of the Anthropological Institute and Museum in
Zurich, in a call with reporters. Its location with other
contemporary skulls allows the researchers to compare them to
each other, she said.  The jaw of the skull was found first, in 2000, and the rest
of the skull was found in 2005. Its braincase is “unexpectedly
small,” said Ponce de Leon, measuring only 33.3 cubic inches
(546 cubic centimeters).  Modern humans  have an average brain
volume of about 76 cubic inches (1,250 cubic centimeters).  Given that the population of individuals showed no greater
range of variation than that of 5 humans or bonobos, the
researchers proposed that early Homo individuals may not
represent three species, but one.  ‘Single Species’  “The variation within the samples from Africa is no more
than our variation within homo erectus,” said Christoph
Zollikofer from the Anthropological Institute and Museum in
Zurich,  Switzerland , a co-author on the Science report. “We’re
pretty sure that the variation is within a single species, and
we’re calling it homo erectus.”  Other anthropologists urge caution, saying the differences
in cranial shapes may not reflect changes in other bones.  Bernard Wood , a professor of human origins at  Georgetown
University  in Washington D.C. said he was convinced all the
skulls from the site belonged to the same group. However, he
didn’t agree with the group’s larger generalization.  “They look at this overall cranial shape and say, ’If you
look at Homo habilis and erectus, there isn’t much more
difference,” Wood said by telephone. “You can’t infer the
latter from the former.”  The reason why Homo habilis and Homo erectus are viewed as
distinct isn’t just the cranial shape, Wood said. Changes in the
wrists and ankles, as well as in  leg bones , took place at that
time. Merging the classes doesn’t make sense even if they share
cranial shapes, he said.  ‘Splitters, Lumpers’  The finding likely won’t change expert’s views on species
diversity, where two groups are heavily entrenched said  William
Harcourt-Smith , an assistant professor at Lehman College and a
research associate in the American Museum of Natural History’s
Division of Paleontology.  Some, nicknamed “splitters,” see the tree of evolution as
having many species. Others, called “lumpers,” see wider
species categories and fewer limbs on the tree.  “To be honest it just adds some important fuel to the
debate,” Harcourt-Smith wrote in an e-mail. “The lumpers, of
course, will love this new paper, but I can see splitters saying
that there is too much variation in both the African early Homo
and Dmanisi sample for them to all be Homo erectus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  