-- Angola’s Dos Santos Threatens Portugal Trade Over Probes
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-10-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/angola-s-dos-santos-threatens-portugal-trade-over-investigations.html
Angolan President Jose Eduardo  dos Santos ’s criticism of former colonial ruler Portugal over
Lisbon’s probes of Angolans shows he’s ready to exert the
economic power of  Africa ’s second-largest oil producer.  “ Angola  is important for Portugal as a source of
investment, export markets and jobs,” Markus Weimer, an analyst
at Control Risks, a London-based political risk analysis group,
said in an Oct. 16 text message reply to questions. “Dos
Santos, aware of Portugal’s reliance on Angola, is flexing his
muscles.”  Portugal’s relationship with Angola is “not well” and a
planned “strategic partnership” in trade is at risk, dos
Santos said in a state of the nation speech to open Parliament
Oct. 15 in Luanda, the capital. A summit meeting between the two
countries was moved to February from this month.  Portuguese companies such as Grupo Soares da Costs SGPS SA, 
Teixeira Duarte SA and Mota-Engil SGPS SA have contracts valued 
in the billions of dollars to rebuild Angola from a 27-year civil 
war that ended in 2002. Isabel dos Santos, the president’s daughter,
owns stakes in Zon Optimus SGPS,  Portugal ’s biggest cable-television provider, and Banco BPI SA, its third-largest bank,
which is also active in Angola.  Dos Santos made his comments after Portuguese Foreign
Minister Rui Machete expressed regret last month that
prosecutors in Lisbon had opened investigations into Angolan
citizens.  “There have been some misunderstandings and given the
current political environment in this relationship, the
construction of a strategic partnership previously announced is
not advisable,” the president said in Parliament.  Prosecutor’s Investigation  Portugal’s Prosecutor’s office said in a statement on Oct.
4 that there are several proceedings in which Angolan citizens
are involved as both suspects and plaintiffs, without naming
them.  Dos Santos, Africa’s longest-serving ruler after Equatorial
Guinea President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, said U.S.,
French and British companies had extracted billions of dollars
in resources from Angola while the West criticized Africans for
accumulating wealth.  Companies such as  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  helped
the country pump 1.74 million barrels of oil a day in September,
second to  Nigeria , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Why is it that they can have private companies of this
size and Angolans not?” dos Santos said. “The campaigns of
intimidation I have mentioned before are persistently made
against Africans because they don’t want to have local
competitors and they want to continue to take more and more
wealth for their countries.”  Corruption Perception  Dos Santos, 71, has led Angola since 1979. The country is
ranked 157th of 176 countries on Transparency International’s
2012 Corruption Perceptions Index. The World Bank estimates the
population at 21 million and the  United Nations  says more than
half live on less than $1.25 a day.  “The president actually placed himself in a tight spot,”
Ana Cristina Alves, a professor of international relations at
Johannesburg-based University of Witwatersrand, said an e-mailed
response to questions. “Either he is taking the opportunity to
surf the always latent tension between Angola and the former
colonizer to gain the upper hand while grasping the sympathy of
some sectors of Angolan society, or he has personal interests in
those judicial cases.”  While the discord is “serious,” deep personal links
between the countries will probably salvage the situation in the
long term, Weimer said.  Angolan Market  Portuguese workers and companies are heading to Angola at a
faster pace than at any time since the southern African nation’s
1975 independence. Angola is Portugal’s biggest non-European
export market.  The number of Portuguese citizens registered in Angola rose
13 percent to 113,194 in 2012 from a year earlier, according to
the Emigration Observatory in Lisbon. This includes people who
acquired Portuguese nationality through marriage and Portuguese
nationals born abroad.  Angola’s economy has expanded every year since 1994, with
growth peaking at 22.6 percent in 2007, according to the  World
Bank . The $114 billion economy will probably increase 5.1
percent this year, dos Santos said in his speech, lowering the
estimate from 7.1 percent.  Bailed Out  The $212 billion economy of Portugal, the third country
after Greece and Ireland to be bailed out by the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund , will contract 1.8 percent
this year before returning to growth in 2014, according to
government forecasts. It expanded at an average rate of less
than 1 percent a year for the past decade.  Africa accounted for 42 percent of Mota-Engil’s 1 billion
euros ($1.4 billion) in sales in the first half of 2013,
according to the website of Portugal’s biggest construction
company. Angola is Mota-Engil’s biggest market in Africa, Mota-Engil Chief Executive Officer Goncalo Martins said in an
interview on Sept. 19.  “I will do everything within my reach, as head of the
 Portuguese government , so that this relationship between the two
countries will not be shaken by episodes of any kind,”
Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said on Oct. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  