-- Harper in Brussels to Conclude Canada Trade Pact With EU
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-10-17T00:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/harper-in-brussels-to-conclude-canada-trade-pact-with-eu.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen
Harper is traveling to Brussels today in a bid to conclude a
free trade agreement with the European Union.  Harper, who told lawmakers yesterday his government will
soon complete the trade pact, will meet with European Commission
President Jose Barroso during the two-day trip “with the goal
of concluding” negotiations, his office said in a media
advisory.  Canadian and European negotiators have reached an agreement
in principle on a free trade pact, officials from both sides who
are familiar with the matter said, speaking on condition they
not be identified because the pact hasn’t been made public.  “Our government launched the most ambitious trade agenda
in Canadian history,” Harper said in a mid-term update of its
agenda yesterday, adding he “will soon complete negotiations”
with the European Union.  A successful trade pact with the EU could help Harper
burnish his reputation as a competent economic manager, an
advantage he holds over his rivals. Even as the ruling
Conservatives have fallen in public opinion polls amid an
expenses scandal implicating some of his lawmakers, Harper
continues to have an edge on economic issues, surveys show.  Canada  has averaged annualized quarterly growth rates of
1.3 percent since the start of 2012, down from 3 percent in 2010
and 2011, in large part because of sluggish exports, which are
down 1.2 percent since the end of 2011.  Leapfrog Canada  Canadian executives had been warning that Harper was
running out of time to complete an agreement amid concern that
talks with the U.S. will leapfrog Canada as a priority for
Europe. Canada’s largest manufacturing  lobby group  called on
provincial leaders yesterday to back the agreement.  “Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters hope that we can
count on your support when negotiations are finally concluded,”
the Ottawa-based group said in an open letter to provincial
premiers. It is “a critically important agreement.”  Canadian companies such as Toronto-based insurer  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC)  and  Montreal ’s commercial-jet maker  Bombardier
Inc. (BBD/B)  have backed an agreement, while European companies
including engineering conglomerate  Siemens AG (SIE)  of Munich and
London-based miner  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  are supportive.  An agreement would increase annual Canadian gross domestic
product by 8.2 billion euros ($11.1 billion), equivalent at the
time to about 0.77 percent of the country’s output, according to
a joint  study  released in 2008 by the Canada and the European
Commission. The EU economy would increase its annual output by
11.6 billion euro, or 0.08 percent.  Beef Concessions  While the EU bought 8.9 percent of Canadian exports in
2012, Canada represented 1.9 percent of total EU exports,
according to Statistics Canada and Eurostat data. The U.S.
received three-quarters of Canada’s exports in August.  Greater concessions on beef will help Harper sell an
agreement to Canadians that may increase the cost of
prescription drugs by expanding patent protection for European
pharmaceutical companies, harm Canadian dairy farmers and take
away power from cities and provinces to choose suppliers for
procurement projects.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  