-- Harrowing ‘Slave’; Wet Wiki; Redford Lost: Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-10-21T18:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/harrowing-slave-memoir-wet-wiki-redford-at-sea-film.html
Steve McQueen’s “ 12 Years a Slave ”
is as harrowing as its subject demands. No mainstream movie
since “ Schindler’s List ” has merged worthy sentiment and
grueling sadism with such powerfully disturbing sweep.  A shattering central performance by Chiwetel Ejiofor (and
an even more impressive turn by McQueen regular Michael Fassbender) produce a determinedly brutal visualization of
Solomon Northup’s 1853 memoir.  The book (adapted here by John Ridley) is a vivid staple of
the American slave narrative that would inform works as
stylistically diverse as “ Roots ” and “ Django Unchained .”  But it’s safe to say that the conventions of cruelty -- the
whippings, rapes and foiled escapes, to name a few -- have never
been presented onscreen in such graphic detail.  A free man of genteel Northern circumstance, Solomon is
kidnapped, sold and sent to a Southern plantation, where he
barely survives a dozen years of backbreaking labor and flesh-splitting whippings.  Solomon’s first owner is a guilt-ridden man of relative
compassion (Benedict Cumberbatch) who leaves the dirty work to a
bullying overseer (Paul Dano).  Shocking Cruelty  The second owner is even worse, a bullwhipping, Scripture-quoting drunkard (Fassbender), whose nightly rapes of the young
slave Patsey (Lupita Nyong’o) enrage his jealous wife (Sarah
Paulson) into outbursts of shocking cruelty.  Filmed on location in Louisiana by cinematographer Sean
Bobbitt, “12 Years” is grimly realistic even at its most
melodramatic. Puffs of bloody mist explode with each whiplash,
and the wails of a mother separated from her children seem
endless.  Only the late, brief appearance of a beatific Brad Pitt as
an abolitionist savior breaks this nightmare’s spell. We’re
grateful for the breather.  “12 Years a Slave,” from Fox Searchlight Pictures, is
playing in select theaters. Rating: **** (Evans)  Julian Assange  Recounting the complicated story of WikiLeaks, “ The Fifth
Estate ” desperately wants to be taken seriously.  To underscore the moral questions raised by publishing
unredacted versions of classified documents, the film sets up a
subplot in which a U.S. government informant in Libya (Alexander
Siddig) faces unspecified horrors when his name appears in the
documents that Bradley Manning released.  But the movie also wants to be as groovy and of-the-moment
as “ The Social Network .” So director Bill Condon tricks up the
screen with candy-colored computer code, party lights, video and
dizzying cuts between world capitals.  In vain. Underneath, it’s formula, constructed (again like
“The Social Network”) in the form of a bad bromance.  We watch the slippery operator Julian Assange (Benedict Cumberbatch) suavely woo the talented geek Daniel Domscheit-Berg
(Daniel Bruehl), who gazes with wide, adoring eyes as the
mastermind secures secret information and grabs publicity. Then
we see the adoration crumble.  The movie holds Assange at a distance and keeps us close to
the awkward but honest Domscheit-Berg -- which is hardly
surprising, since it’s based on Domscheit-Berg’s book.  How serious is it? Though the issues are real, Condon’s
flashy technique flatters the audience without informing us. All
that neon-hued code crawling up and down the screen has no more
meaning, really, than a disco ball. Thinking it looks way cool
does not make it way smart.  “The Fifth Estate,” from DreamWorks, opens Friday across
the U.S. Rating: ** (Seligman)  Robert Redford  In the late 1960s and early ’70s, a young Robert Redford
proved he could hold his own, on his own, against nature and the
screen with “ Downhill Racer ” and  “ Jeremiah Johnson .” Four
decades later he’s still proving it with the thrilling “ All Is
Lost .”  Director J.C. Chandor’s impeccably crafted (and near
wordless) tale of a yachtsman adrift at sea is, in its way, an
action thriller parched to its essence.  In a brief prologue, Redford’s sun-baked character
(identified in the credits as Our Man) floats in an inflatable
raft on the Indian Ocean, writing a brief message-in-a-bottle
farewell (and cryptic apology) to his survivors.  So ends any backstory and, for the most part, dialogue.  The film jumps back eight days, when Our Man, asleep and
alone on the yacht, is awakened by a drifting shipping container
that pierces the hull.  GPS Kaput  “All Is Lost” finds great fascination in the workaday
deliberations of a sailor with more ingenuity than know-how. He
manages to seal the hole, but the GPS and communications systems
are kaput.  The inevitable storms are presented with terrific
ferociousness -- we’re inside the hull with a tumbling Redford
as the boat capsizes and rights itself in the film’s best set
piece.  Chandor (“ Margin Call ” ), directing from his own
screenplay and aided immensely by Pete Beaudreau’s editing,
gives this one-man show astounding pace.  Redford moves through his survival tasks without panic or
fuss, at one point stopping to shave for no reason besides
maintaining order and his own sanity.  “All Is Lost” toys with our hopes like a fisherman with a
catch, and the similarities with Alfonso Cuaron’s tense
“ Gravity ” are striking: a tiny figure alone in the expanse,
victimized less by nature than our pollution of it, and the
possibility of a late-coming spiritual reprieve presented with
just enough wiggle room to dodge proselytizing.  But a dodge it is, and “All Is Lost” is better at
plunges.  “All Is Lost,” from Lionsgate/Roadside Attractions, is
playing in New York and Los Angeles. Rating: **** (Evans)  (Greg Evans and Craig Seligman are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and Patrick
Cole on  philanthropy .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 