-- Asian Stocks Advance After Congress Passes Debt Deal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-10-17T08:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/asian-stocks-gain-as-senate-strikes-deal-to-raise-debt-ceiling.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index headed toward a five-month high, after the U.S.
Congress voted to end the government shutdown and raise the debt
ceiling.  Nissan Motor Co., which gets about 34 percent of its car
sales from North America, gained 2.2 percent in  Tokyo .  Kansai
Electric (9503)  Power Co. added 2.8 percent after the Japanese utility
reported an unexpected first-half profit. Boral Ltd. advanced
5.9 percent after USG Corp. agreed to pay the Australian company
as much as $575 million to form a jointly owned building-materials business spanning Asia and the Middle East.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1 percent to 142.41 as
of 5:08 p.m. in Tokyo, with about two shares rising for each
that fell. The U.S. fiscal impasse ended as the Senate and the
House of Representatives voted to halt the government shutdown
and raise the U.S. debt limit as the deadline loomed today.
President  Barack Obama  said he will immediately sign the bill.  “Even though it doesn’t change anything, at least for the
moment there’s a relief that there will be no U.S. default, at
least before the new year,” Toby Lawson, head of futures,
options and cash equities for the Asia-Pacific at Newedge Group
SA in Sydney, said by telephone. “Investors can now focus on
economic fundamentals. Europe is showing reasonable signs that
the worst is over and the bearish view on  China  isn’t playing
out.”  China Data  China is scheduled to release a slew of data tomorrow. The
world’s second-largest economy may have grown last quarter at
the fastest pace this year, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  The nation’s GDP probably expanded 7.8 percent in the third
quarter year-on-year, after growing 7.5 percent in the previous
three months, according to the median of about 50 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey before tomorrow’s data. The nation will also
release factory output and retail sales figures for September.  Singapore’s Straits Times Index climbed 0.5 percent. The
nation’s exports fell 1.2 percent in September from a year
earlier, according to a report by International Enterprise
Singapore. Shipments were expected to drop 2.8 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Regional Indexes  South Korea’s Kospi index advanced 0.3 percent. The
nation’s producer prices index dropped 1.8 percent in September
from a year earlier after falling 1.3 percent in August, the
Bank of Korea said today.  Japan ’s  Topix Index (TPX)  gained 0.8 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex
Index increased 0.5 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index and
New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index both added 0.4 percent. China’s
Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.2 percent, while Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index dropped 0.6 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.3 percent last week
amid optimism U.S. lawmakers were moving closer to resolving the
debt impasse. The gauge traded at 13.6 times estimated earnings
yesterday, compared with 15.6 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 14.5 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Debt Deal  S&P 500  futures  slid 0.4 percent today. The equity gauge
jumped 1.4 percent yesterday as the Senate crafted a bipartisan
deal to end the government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling.
House lawmakers today voted 285-144 to clear the measure, which
has since been signed by Obama. The Senate earlier passed the
bill 81-18.  The deal concludes a fiscal standoff that began with
Republicans demanding the defunding of Obama’s 2010 health-care
law and objecting to raising the debt limit and funding the
government without attaching policy conditions. They achieved
almost none of those goals in the agreement.  The partial government shutdown also delayed the release of
key data needed to gauge the outlook for Fed stimulus. Global
equities have rallied 15 percent this year as the Fed maintained
efforts to boost the U.S. economy by holding interest rates near
zero and purchasing $85 billion of bonds each month under a
program known as quantitative easing.  Tapering Expectations  “Because of the disruption, because of the uncertainty,
what’s likely to happen is a slower pace of tapering by the
Fed,” said Russ Koesterich, the chief investment strategist at
BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest money manager with $4.1
trillion in assets as of Sept. 30.  Exporters advanced. Nissan climbed 2.2 percent to 1,022 yen
in Tokyo. Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s biggest
smartphone maker, added 0.9 percent to 1.463 million won in
 Seoul .  Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings Ltd. (551) , which makes shoes for
Nike Inc., rose 1.9 percent to HK$21.35 in Hong Kong.  Kansai Electric increased 2.8 percent to 1,327 yen. The
utility reported a first-half net income of 15 billion yen ($153
million), beating the company’s prediction of a 32 billion yen
loss.  Boral Jumps  Luk Fook Holdings International Ltd. (590)  advanced 3.7 percent
to HK$26.65 after the Hong Kong jeweler said same-store sales in
Hong Kong and Macau increased 30 percent in the three months
ended September and climbed 70 percent in China in the same
period.  Boral jumped 5.9 percent to A$5.03 in Sydney. The
Australian company will fold its gypsum unit into the joint
venture with Chicago-based USG, the companies said. Under the
terms of the agreement, USG will pay Boral $500 million in cash
when the deal is completed -- scheduled for January 2014 -- and
as much as $75 million if the venture, named USG Boral Building
Products, meets certain earnings targets.  Toko Inc., a maker of semiconductors and power supplies,
rose 3.3 percent to 344 yen. Murata Manufacturing Co., a
supplier of components to Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics,
may need to increase its 300-yen-a-share bid for Toko to ensure
support for its offer, according to Lee Mitchell, a special
situations sales trader at Religare Capital Markets Ltd., in
 Singapore . Murata added 0.9 percent to 7,590 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  