-- Stocks, Commodities Gain on China Growth as Google Surges
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-10-18T20:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/australian-index-futures-climb-as-yen-gold-hold-advances.html
Global  stocks  rose, extending a
five-year high, and commodities gained as  China ’s economic
growth quickened.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  jumped as much as 14 percent to a
record above $1,000 on better-than-forecast earnings. Treasury
10-year note yields touched a 12-week low.  The MSCI All-Country World Index advanced 0.7 percent to
396.25, the highest since May 2008. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  added 0.7 percent to 1,744.50, reaching a record for a
second day. The yield on 10-year  Treasury notes  was little
changed after dropping to 2.54 percent, the lowest level since
July 24. China’s yuan had its best week in a year. Wheat, sugar
and nickel rose more than 1 percent to lead commodities higher.  China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 7.8 percent last
quarter, the statistics bureau said in Beijing today, matching
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists and
halting a two-quarter slowdown. Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said yesterday the U.S. shouldn’t reduce
stimulus after some economic reports stopped during a 16-day
government shutdown. Google, General Electric Co. and Morgan
Stanley joined the 70 percent of S&P 500 companies beating
earnings estimates so far in the reporting season.  “The immediate focus over the next two to three weeks will
be on third-quarter earnings,”  Matthew Kaufler , a portfolio
manager at Federated Investors Inc. in Rochester,  New York , said
by phone. His firm oversees $363.8 billion. “My concern would
be on a very short-term basis that some companies are going to
use the drama of the past couple of weeks as a pretext to lower
the bar. Even if there is some weakness to forward guidance, I
think that’s going to get shrugged off and we’re going to finish
the year pretty strong.”  S&P 500 Record  The  S&P 500  extended its record for a second day. The
Nasdaq 100 Index advanced 1.6 percent to a 13-year high as
Google rallied after the world’s largest Internet search engine
reported sales that topped estimates. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  added 0.2 percent, with UnitedHealth Group Inc. sliding
3.7 percent for the biggest decline.  General Electric gained 3.5 percent after reporting
adjusted earnings of 36 cents a share, compared with an average
estimate of 35 cents in a Bloomberg survey. Morgan Stanley
climbed 2.6 percent on better-than-projected earnings.  Among 100 companies that have reported quarterly results so
far, 70  exceeded  profit estimates while 55 percent beat sales
projections, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock Rally  U.S.  stocks  are rallying at the fastest pace in almost two
years after Congress resolved the budget standoff and investors
shifted their focus to Fed stimulus and forecasts for record
corporate profits.  While declining revenue dragged down shares of
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. yesterday, investors have reasons to be optimistic heading
into a time of year that has generated twice the return for
stocks than other periods. The S&P 500 rallied 4.7 percent in
the previous seven days, the most since December 2011,
rebounding from losses spurred by concern the U.S. was
approaching a default.  With the debate over the budget and debt ceiling probably
over for this year, investor attention will turn to earnings and
the Fed’s schedule for tapering economic stimulus. Equities
climbed back to all-time highs yesterday and more than 260
companies in the S&P 500 are set to report quarterly results in
the next two weeks, the busiest time of earnings season.  European Markets  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index increased 0.8 percent. The gauge
has climbed for seven straight days, the longest winning streak
this year. Almost five stocks advanced for every one that
gained, with trading volumes 9.6 percent above the 30-day
average.  Schindler Holding AG (SCHP)  jumped 4.3 percent, the most since
November 2011, after the Swiss maker of elevators said it will
buy back shares. Grifols SA slipped 3.5 after Alken Asset
Management LLP sold a 2.7 percent stake in Europe’s biggest
maker of blood-plasma products.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index gained 0.7 percent,
extending its weekly advance to 1.7 percent. India’s S&P BSE
Sensex climbed 2.3 percent and Russia’s Micex Index advanced 1.6
percent, with both markets rebounding from a two-day slump.
Benchmark gauges in  Taiwan  and  Thailand  added at least 0.8
percent.  China Markets  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  rose 0.7 percent and the Shanghai Composite
Index added 0.2 percent. The  yuan  climbed to a 20-year high
after the People’s Bank of China boosted its fixing, advancing
0.4 percent this week, the most since the five days ended
September 2012.  “China’s economic growth is stabilizing and that added
more confidence into markets going into next year,” said
Caroline Maurer, a Singapore-based  fund manager  at  Henderson
Global Investors , which oversees $110 billion of assets. “We
are also likely to see some impact to the U.S. fourth-quarter
data because of the shutdown, which could mean any Fed tapering
is likely to be put off a bit later.”  The dollar was little changed at $1.3685 per euro after
reaching $1.3704, the weakest since Feb. 1. It has dropped 1.1
percent since Oct. 11, the most since the period ended Sept. 20.
The U.S. currency slipped 0.1 percent to 97.83 yen.  The Aussie strengthened 0.4 percent to 96.73 U.S. cents,
the highest since June, and set for a 2.1 percent gain this
week.  Europe Bonds  Germany’s 10-year bond yield fell four basis points to 1.83
percent and the rate on similar-maturity U.K. gilts dropped
three basis points to 2.72 percent.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities added 0.6 percent.
Copper advanced 0.9 percent this week, its first gain for the
period in three weeks. West Texas Intermediate crude oil
rebounded after touching a three-month low yesterday. Gold fell
0.6 percent to settle at $1,314.60 an ounce.  Wheat climbed 2.4 percent on the Chicago Board of Trade,
gaining for a second day, on speculation the pace of exports
from the U.S. will be sustained.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  