-- Baht Rises Most in Four Weeks on U.S. Debt Deal, Dagong Rating
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-10-17T10:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/baht-rises-to-two-week-high-on-u-s-debt-deal-fed-taper-outlook.html
Thailand’s baht rose the most in
four weeks after the U.S. ended a budget impasse, averting a
possible default.  Government bonds  advanced.  The Senate voted 81-18 to halt the shutdown that began Oct.
1 and raise the U.S. debt limit. The  House of Representatives 
also backed the agreement, aimed at preventing the country’s
borrowing authority from lapsing today. The baht is benefiting
as the fiscal standoff in  Washington  over the past four weeks
probably means the  Federal Reserve  will delay cutting stimulus,
said Kampon Adireksombat, a senior economist at Tisco Securities
Co. in Bangkok.  The baht jumped 0.7 percent to 31.05 per dollar in Bangkok,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, its biggest one-day
rally since Sept. 19. It touched 31.02 earlier, the strongest
level since Sept. 23. The currency has strengthened 0.8 percent
in October after weakening 6.5 percent in the six months through
September.  “It’s good news for global markets, not only for  Thailand ,
as uncertainty has somewhat subsided,” Adireksombat said. “The
baht is supported by recent improvements in the current account
and exports.”  The dollar came under selling pressure after China’s Dagong
Global Credit Rating Co. downgraded the U.S. sovereign credit
rating to A- from A today, according to an e-mailed statement.  Overseas sales rose 2.5 percent in August from a year
earlier, after decreasing 1.3 percent in July, the government
reported Sept. 30. Thailand recorded a $1.3 billion current-account surplus in August, the first excess since March.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in exchange rates used to price options, dropped 35 basis points,
or 0.35 percentage point, to 6.71 percent.  Ten-year notes halted a seven-day slide. The yield on the
3.625 percent bonds due June 2023 fell six basis points to 3.86
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  