-- Bailey Says U.K. Regulator Wants Limits on Foreign Bank Branches
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-10-17T14:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/bailey-says-u-k-regulator-wants-limits-on-foreign-bank-branches.html
Branches of foreign banks opening in
the U.K. won’t be able to take retail deposits unless they
convince the regulator they can be easily wound down in a
crisis, said  Andrew Bailey , the U.K.’s top banking supervisor.  Branches from banks based outside the European Union
“should stick to straightforward wholesale banking, of the type
that supports world trade and capital flows,” Bailey, the chief
executive officer of the Prudential Regulation Authority, told
an audience of banking executives in London today. “Resolution
will be a key deciding factor in the PRA’s judgements.”  The U.K. government said this week that branches of Chinese
banks would be approved for business in London. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the PRA will start talks with
Chinese banks later this year.  “Our stance is sensibly cautious, but not I think
restrictive,” said Bailey, deputy governor for prudential
regulation at the  Bank of England . “It is a general policy, not
a China policy, and it is consistent with promoting the benefits
of an open world economy.”  Regulators around the world have encouraged banks to open
subsidiaries rather branches since the financial crisis because
they have to comply with tougher capital and liquidity rules.
Branches are supervised by the regulator of the home country of
their parent bank.  “We do not wish to see non-EEA branches undertaking
critical retail banking functions -- like taking deposits --
beyond de minimis levels unless there is some good reason and
importantly there is a very high level of assurance on
resolution,” Bailey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  