-- Bank Creditor Loss Rule Changes May Spur Risk Taking, EU Warns
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-10-17T14:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/bank-creditor-loss-rule-changes-may-spur-risk-taking-eu-warns.html
Banks may be given incentives to
take irresponsible risks if governments press ahead with plans
to change the European Union’s blueprint for handling stricken
lenders, EU officials warned.  Proposals to amend draft EU rules for imposing creditor
losses may imperil “the level playing field across the varying
banking models and could promote more risk taking and moral
hazard,” according to a European Commission working paper dated
Oct. 7 and obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The commission’s concerns center on how banks should
calculate whether they meet minimum targets set by regulators
for issuing subordinated debt and other unsecured liabilities
that could be written down in an emergency, according to the
document.  The bank resolution proposals, put forward last year by
 Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, seek to take
taxpayers off the hook for rescues by imposing losses on
unsecured creditors, a process known as bail-ins, and by
requiring nations to build up bank-financed funds that can be
tapped in crises.  Under Barnier’s blueprint, lenders would face binding
targets for the proportion of bail-in-able securities they
should have on their balance sheets, measured as a fraction of
the lender’s total liabilities, excluding capital.  Unintended Incentives  Moves by governments and the European Parliament to exclude
some types of liabilities from the denominator of the
calculations may create unintended incentives, the commission
said in the document.  Such a step would give banks a smaller target for the
proportion of liabilities that can be bailed in, according to
the document.  Lenders may also take advantage of exemptions to try to
game the system and minimize the liabilities that they have to
issue, the commission warned.  The commission cites concerns over a proposal by
governments to exclude derivatives from the calculation of
banks’ total liabilities, so favoring “bigger trading banks”
that deal more in these securities, the commission said.  A move by the European Parliament to exempt covered bonds
from the calculation may unintentionally spur banks to issue
more of these instruments, the commission warned in the
document.  EU leaders have said that the plans are an essential
building block for further steps by the 17-nation euro area to
set up a centralized  bank  resolution system.  Barnier’s proposals require approval by national
governments and by EU Parliament lawmakers before they can take
effect. Finance ministers reached a common negotiation position
on the measures in June, allowing talks to start with
legislators on the final version of the plans.  While national regulators would have discretion on how high
to set the target for each bank, the threshold would be measured
as a percentage of the lender’s total liabilities, excluding
capital.  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for Barnier, didn’t have an
immediate comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Chapman at 
 pchapman10@bloomberg.net  