-- Bank of Montreal Shares Top Peers on U.S. Bet: Corporate Canada
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-10-17T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/bank-of-montreal-shares-top-peers-on-u-s-bet-corporate-canada.html
Bank of Montreal (BMO) , Canada’s fourth-biggest lender, is poised to be the country’s top-performing
bank stock this year for the first time in more than a decade as
a U.S. expansion begins winning over investors.  The bank’s 16 percent  advance  this year is leading Canada’s
seven other large lenders, and its stock remains among the
cheapest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Toronto-based firm is also beating the 10 percent return of the eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks Index. The bank
hasn’t topped the group since 2002, when it gained 16 percent,
the data show.  Bank of Montreal turned to the U.S. to help bolster profit
through acquisitions, including its C$4.1 billion ($4 billion)
takeover of Milwaukee-based Marshall & Ilsley Corp. in July
2011. The purchase, Bank of Montreal’s largest in its 196-year
history, doubled its U.S. deposits and branches. The lender has
had a presence in the U.S. Midwest since  buying  Harris Bank for
C$718 million in 1984.  “Bank of Montreal made a big push into the U.S. middle
market, and that’s what’s gaining traction,”  Ian Nakamoto ,
director of research at MacDougall, MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in
Toronto, which manages about C$4 billion including bank shares,
said in an Oct. 15 interview. “People who have been negative
are grudgingly giving them their respect for what they’ve done
with the M&I acquisition.”  ‘Good Momentum’  The lender, which has outperformed the Canadian banks index
three times in the past decade, has surged to its  highest  level
in six years as it closes in on its April 2007 record of
C$72.75. The stock  rose  0.6 percent to C$70.66 yesterday in
Toronto.  “Investors are recognizing BMO’s diversified North
American platform,” Chief Financial Officer Tom Flynn, 50, said
in an Oct. 15 e-mail response to questions, citing its “large
commercial banking business, good momentum in personal and
commercial banking in  Canada , a strong wealth franchise and
operating leverage from an expanded U.S. platform.”  Bank of Montreal yesterday promoted Frank Techar, who leads
the Canadian consumer lending business, to a new role as chief
operating officer starting Nov. 1 as part of a plan to
consolidate oversight of the lender’s retail businesses. He’ll
be responsible for personal and commercial banking as well as
wealth management, and will oversee Mark Furlong, head of U.S.
retail banking, and Gilles Ouellette, head of the private client
business.  Highest Capital  The bank’s Basel III common equity ratio, which measures
equity divided by assets adjusted for risk, was 9.6 percent as
of July 31, the highest among Canada’s eight biggest banks.  “BMO has consistently been at the high end of the sector
in terms of their capital position,” Sumit Malhotra, an analyst
with Macquarie Capital Markets in Toronto, said in an Oct. 15
interview. “This has allowed for balanced capital deployment,
including a strong level of buyback activity.”  Bank of Montreal said Jan. 30 it planned to buy back as
many as 15 million common shares, or 2.3 percent of its stock,
over 12 months. The bank repurchased 8 million shares as of July
31.  Bank of Montreal posted record profit in Canadian consumer
lending and wealth management in its fiscal third quarter, with
U.S. earnings increasing 10 percent from a year earlier. Net
income from U.S. consumer lending for the year ended Oct. 31 was
C$580 million, lifted in part by M&I contributions, according to
financial statements. That was more than double the C$259
million profit from fiscal 2011.  M&I Contributions  “‘Exposure to a recovering U.S. market coupled with the
benefit of M&I-related credit recoveries have been positive to
earnings,’’ Malhotra said. ‘‘BMO also has the strongest consumer
loan growth in Canada of the big five banks, and the most recent
quarter showed signs of slowing net interest margin compression
domestically.’’  Bank of Montreal was the fifth-best performer last year
after its stock gained 8.9 percent, compared with the 15 percent
return of top-performer  Royal Bank of Canada . Royal Bank has
gained 14 percent this year, putting it in second place, while
Canadian Western Bank is third with a 12 percent advance.  ‘‘It’s a good story: They did a big acquisition, they
seemed to have pulled it off, they seem to be making money on
it,’’ David Baskin, president of Baskin Financial Services Inc.,
said in an Oct. 11 interview. ‘‘Good for them, and the stock
market’s rewarding them.’’  Credit Reserves  Still, Baskin doesn’t hold Bank of Montreal among the C$541
million his Toronto-based firm manages. While earnings from its
M&I acquisition have been better than expected, much of the gain
comes from reversing credit reserves taken during the purchase,
he said.  ‘‘A lot of the earnings that we’ve seen have been because
the housing market has recovered and banks have been able to
reverse those reserve loans,” Baskin said. “I want to see a
normal year.”  While Bank of Montreal is topping other Canadian lenders
this year, its stock is underperforming U.S. mid-sized banks
including Cleveland-based KeyCorp, Pittsburgh-based PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. and Huntington Bancshares Inc. of
Columbus,  Ohio . Bank of Montreal also trails the 26 percent
advance of the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 U.S. lenders.  Cheap Stock  Bank of Montreal has been the cheapest of Canada’s six-biggest banks since August 2010 based on price to tangible book
value per share and has the lowest return on tangible equity of
the group in that period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Price to tangible book value measures what investors are
willing to pay for a company’s equity after removing intangible
items such as goodwill and brand names that would have little
value if the company went out of business.  “The very fact that it’s cheap takes people’s attention
towards the bank and it’s their time to show investors how well
that U.S. acquisition is working out,” Nakamoto said. “The
stock price looks like it’s going to continue to move up -- it’s
almost like it’s theirs to lose.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  