-- Barclays Executives Knew of Libor Lowballing, Guardian Claims
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-10-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/barclays-executives-knew-of-libor-lowballing-suit-claims.html
Current and former executives at
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  knew that the bank submitted lower-than-accurate
Libor rates as early as 2007, according to transcripts of
conversations between executives cited in a U.K. court case.  Mark Dearlove, head of Barclays’s money-market desk, told
another executive, Jonathan Stone, he’d received complaints
about the bank’s submissions from an employee of JPMorgan Chase
& Co., according to a transcript dated December 2007 and handed
down in court. The document is being used as evidence in a
lawsuit in London against Barclays over an interest-rate swap.  “I don’t know what you guys are playing at,” Dearlove
said. “We know you’re paying 540m, why are you setting Libor
rates at 530?”  Companies in the Guardian Care Homes group are suing
Barclays to cancel an interest-rate swap deal linked to the
 London  interbank offered rate, saying they wouldn’t have agreed
if they knew the benchmark was being rigged. An appeal by
Barclays against the Libor claims is being heard alongside a
similar swap case against Deutsche Bank AG brought by Indian
property developer  Unitech Ltd. (UT)   While Barclays hasn’t objected to the material being
produced, “the bank does not consider any of the new evidence
to be relevant to the issues in front of the Court of Appeal,”
Jon Laycock, a spokesman for the lender, said in an e-mail.  Regulatory investigations in the U.S., U.K. and  Asia  found
evidence traders and brokers tried to influence Libor for
profit, leading to fines and settlements totaling about $2.6
billion for Barclays,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  ICAP Plc. (IAP)   ‘All Wrong’  Robert Diamond , who resigned as chief executive officer of
Barclays in the wake of the scandal, told U.K. lawmakers in July
2012 testimony that all the panel banks lowered their
submissions. He denied knowing anything about it until a week
before the regulators published their findings that month.  Dearlove told Stone the bank’s submissions were “all
wrong” and wanted to escalate the complaint. “I guess the
quesions[sic] is, is everybody else, what’s happening with
everybody else?” Stone replied, according to the transcript.  In other evidence from the Guardian documents, a Barclays
employee in Singapore asked its Libor submitters to enter lower
rates in order to earn profit for an investment fund run by the
bank.  Quan Hui Lee e-mailed colleagues in London instructing them
to “go get Libor down” and go “LOWER! Go for 3 percent,”
according to e-mail evidence. The e-mails come from a letter
written by Barclays’ lawyers, Clifford Chance LLP, that was sent
to  Singapore  regulators in May 2013 detailing an internal
investigation.  New Material  Ian Pike, a Barclays employee in London who submitted
rates, wrote back to Lee saying: “I’ll do my best boss!”
according to the letter. The purpose of the changes was to make
a profit or avoid losses at the fund, according to Guardian.  Evidence provided in the case shows Barclays’ “misconduct
goes further and wider than the regulatory findings,”
Guardian’s lawyers said in the documents. They said they
couldn’t yet provide the court with all the new material.  “My swaps have cost me 12 million pounds ($19 million), so
the suggestion that these allegations are irrelevant are
fanciful,” Gary Hartland, Guardian Care Homes CEO, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Open Doors  The Court of Appeal will rule on whether Unitech and
Guardian can seek to tear up the swap deals, or whether they
must prove a loss and seek damages.  Its decision may “open the doors for many more such
claims,” said  Stewart Burrows , a lawyer not involved in the
hearing.  Barclays has argued Guardian owes 70 million pounds and
said the Libor claims have no merit. Guardian had advisers and
enough experience and understanding to exercise its own judgment
about the suitability of the swap, Laycock said.  The appeal “isn’t concerned with the extent to which
Barclays manipulated Libor or with the regulators’ reports,”
the bank’s lawyer, Robin Dicker, told the court this morning. It
is to decide whether Guardian “can rely on such content to
avoid or reduce its obligations.”  Unitech presented e-mail evidence that Deutsche Bank
employees had discussed clients being “screwed” in swap deals.
Both cases started out as mis-selling claims and later sought to
add Libor accusations.  The cases are: Graiseley Properties Ltd & Ors. v. Barclays
Bank Plc, case no. 12-1259,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench
Division ; and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  & Ors v. Unitech Global Limited &
Anr, case no. 11-1199, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  