-- Buffett Adds Stocks in Pension Handoff to Lieutenants
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-10-17T04:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/berkshire-adds-stocks-in-pension-handoff-to-buffett-lieutenants.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  is
betting that his deputy investment managers can find value
hiding in a corner of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) : its $10.4 billion
in pension assets.  Todd Combs, 42, and Ted Weschler, 52, have been building
stock portfolios with funds they oversee for defined-benefit
plans at Berkshire subsidiaries, including railroad Burlington
Northern  Santa Fe . The strategy saves Buffett’s company fees it
would pay to outside asset managers and could reduce the need
for contributions to the pensions.  “For his whole career, Buffett has been extremely choosy
about who he will allow to manage Berkshire’s money,” said
 James Armstrong , president at Henry H. Armstrong Associates,
which oversees about $400 million, including shares in the
Omaha, Nebraska-based company. “Now he’s got two young guys who
have a lot of energy and some capacity, and I think it makes
perfect sense” that he selected them for pension investments
rather than “some big bank.”  BNSF liquidated hundreds of holdings backing obligations to
retirees as Berkshire took control of investments for a $1.9
billion defined-benefit plan in 2012, two years after Buffett
bought the railroad, U.S. Department of Labor filings show.
Since then, the fund made concentrated stock bets in companies
favored by Combs and Weschler.  Holdings of  DirecTV (DTV)  and  DaVita HealthCare Partners Inc. (DVA) ,
for instance, were each valued at more than $300 million at
yesterday’s share prices, based on assets listed in regulatory
filings in May. Stock picks in the plan used to be a fraction of
that size, separate filings show.  Pension Plans  Changes occurred at plans of other Berkshire units,
including FlightSafety International Inc., which trains pilots.
A $281 million fund tied to the unit sold holdings last year in
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  -- both Buffett picks
-- and added stock in  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  and oil refiner Phillips 66.
Berkshire’s Acme Brick Co. and cowboy-boot maker Justin Brands
Inc. also eliminated holdings in P&G and J&J.  Reallocating pension assets is one way Buffett, 83, can
assign more funds to Weschler and Combs without liquidating some
of his own long-held  investments . Berkshire’s stock portfolio,
valued at $103.3 billion as of June 30, includes stakes of more
than $10 billion in Wells Fargo & Co., Coca-Cola Co.,
International Business Machines Corp. and  American Express Co. (AXP)   The amount of funds the deputies oversee more than doubled
to about $5 billion each, the billionaire  wrote  in March. Combs
and Weschler were each hired in the past three years.  A review of pensions at subsidiaries with combined assets
of about $5 billion shows that Berkshire tends to target fewer
than a dozen stocks for each plan and has smaller-than-average
investments in bonds. Buffett didn’t respond to a message
seeking comment.  Acme’s Trust  The trust for Acme’s pension held 83 percent of its $116
million portfolio in nine equities at the end of 2012, and less
than 4 percent in corporate and government bonds, filings show.
That compares with 50 percent in stocks and 37 percent in debt
for similar-sized U.S. private pension plans, according to a
forthcoming  study  from Towers Watson & Co.  While some of Berkshire’s pension funds are overseen by
outside managers, the investments have been shifting toward
equities. More than half the assets were in stocks at the end of
last year compared with 36 percent at the end of 2009, according
to regulatory filings. Assets climbed about 76 percent in that
period, as Buffett  bought  more businesses and markets rose.  Many pension funds avoid concentrations in single stocks to
limit risk. Buffett became the world’s fourth-richest person in
part through targeted bets made with funds from insurance
subsidiaries. He has called bonds among the “most dangerous”
of assets, saying near-record-low  interest rates  aren’t enough
to compensate investors for inflation risk.  Washington Post  After joining the  board  of Washington Post Co. in 1974,
Buffett advised his friend and the company’s then-chief
executive officer, Katharine Graham, to abandon Morgan Guaranty
as the company’s pension asset manager. By switching to
investors that shared his approach, returns would probably be
better without taking on too much risk, Buffett wrote in a  memo 
published by Fortune magazine.  Graham took the advice, and the results stand out. At a
time when the average corporate  pension plan  in the U.S. is
underfunded, the Washington Post’s ended 2012 about $600 million
overfunded. Berkshire’s total obligation to pension holders was
$14.1 billion, meaning that the plans had an average funding
level of about 75 percent.  Berkshire’s Outlook  Some picks by Combs and Weschler have turned out well. The
 Phillips 66 (PSX)  shares that FlightSafety’s plan bought last year
almost doubled in value, according to filings. Justin Brands’
investment in  General Motors Co. (GM)  in 2012 had climbed more than
70 percent through yesterday based on the cost of shares
reported in its annual filing to the Labor Department.  “These are the kinds of bets he’s believed in all along,”
Jeremy Gold, an independent pension actuary and economist, said
of Buffett. “He believes that these insights provide returns
and cost savings above and beyond the returns for risk taken in
more highly diversified, externally managed portfolios.”  Buffett’s picks have led to some losses. Before Weschler
and Combs took over, at least five Berkshire pension plans
bought bonds tied to Energy Future Holdings Corp. Buffett
apologized for the wager in a 2012 letter to investors after the
securities plunged in value.  The risk for pension holders from Buffett’s strategy should
be minimal, said Richard Shea, a partner at Covington & Burling
LLP who is chairman of the law firm’s employee-benefits and
executive-compensation practice.  Cash Pile  Most corporate defined-benefit plans are required to insure
obligations through the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., he said.
Companies also are responsible for addressing shortfalls.
Buffett’s firm had  $35.7 billion  in cash at the end of June.  “If you had to pick an employer to be behind the trust,
Berkshire is not such a bad one to have,” said Shea.  That’s a view shared by Patrick Hiatte, who retired in 2009
to a farm in  Missouri  after working more than three decades in
communications at BNSF. Payments from the plan account for about
40 percent of annual income for him and his wife.  “As long as that direct deposit keeps coming once a month,
I have every confidence in the plan’s managers,” he said.
Berkshire is “a good solid group of companies. The more I read,
and the more I learn about it, the better I feel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  