-- Billionaires Snubbed in Netherlands Show Phone Stock Gain
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-10-18T13:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/billionaires-snubbed-in-netherlands-show-phone-stocks-rebounding.html
John Malone  and  Carlos Slim ’s plans
to expand their empires on the cheap in  Europe ’s beleaguered
telecommunications market have been thwarted so far as companies
in the region begin commanding higher prices.  Both billionaires suffered recent setbacks in the
Netherlands trying to turn leading stakes into full ownership.
Cable company  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  rejected Malone’s offer and Slim’s
America Movil SAB withdrew a 7.2 billion-euro ($9.8 billion) bid
for Royal KPN NV after the targets said they wanted more.  Europe’s phone and cable companies have struggled with high
unemployment and strict regulatory oversight that pummeled their
stocks. This weakness made them attractive to investors at home
and abroad, particularly as the continent revives. Europe’s
economy will shrink less this year than last and gross domestic
product will gain in 2014, according to economists’ forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  “With the region showing signs of recovery, the price
investors such as Slim and Malone need to pay is going up,”
said Norbert Janisch, a  fund manager  at Vienna-based Raiffeisen
Capital, which manages about 30 billion euros ($41 billion),
including shares in Ziggo.  European telecom services’ average price-to-earnings ratio,
a measure of how expensive a stock is, were generally lower than
their U.S. counterparts from February through July, a comparison
of Bloomberg indexes for the European and American industries
shows. The positions reversed in August, when investors began
valuing Europe’s phone companies more highly.  Rising Valuations  AT&T Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  has
expressed interest in Europe and considered a bid for Vodafone
Group Plc, people familiar with the U.S. company’s plans have
said. Egyptian billionaire Naguib Sawiris briefly revived talks
with Telecom Italia SpA after his offer for a stake was rebuffed
last year, people familiar with the matter said last month.  That interest has driven valuations. The Bloomberg Europe
500 Telecom Services Index is up 24 percent since July 1, more
than double the 10 percent increase by providers worldwide,
according to the Bloomberg World Telecommunications Index.  Slim is the world’s second-richest man with $69.7 billion,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. He’s lost $5.5
billion so far this year, or 7.3 percent. Malone’s net worth is
about $6.9 billion, and he’s gained $1.3 billion, or 24 percent,
so far this year.  The billionaires honed in on the Dutch assets as the
country is in transition, with more fixed-line operators and
wireless-service providers offering the same services to
customers, Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Robin Bienenstock  said
in a note yesterday.  Dutch Market  Carrier KPN is well-positioned after rolling out a high-capacity fiber optic network, which can offer high-speed
 Internet access  and enable mobile traffic to offload onto the
physical network. Ziggo, a TV and Internet provider, plans to
sell wireless service as well this year, bringing it in
competition with  Sweden ’s  Tele2 AB (TEL2B) , Vodafone and Deutsche
Telekom AG, as well as KPN for Dutch mobile users.  Telecom deals have dominated dealmaking this year, with a
value of about $236 billion. That’s almost twice the next-largest industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Buyers have spent about $70 billion on 130 acquisitions in
Europe, according to the data. Almost all of them have been
cross-border, as buyers look outside of their home markets for
investments. Malone’s  Liberty Global Plc (LBTYA)  has been the most
acquisitive with four deals worth $22.9 billion, the data shows.  Raised Bid  Slim bought into KPN last year for 8 euros a share,
building up an almost 30 percent stake. Since then, the stock
has lost about 70 percent of its value, even accounting for a 45
percent rally in the price since July 22, when KPN and
Telefonica SA confirmed talks on joining their German assets.  America Movil offered to buy the remaining shares of KPN
for 2.30 euros each on Aug. 7, two days before making a bid of
2.40 euros, according to the prospectus published today by the
Dutch Financial Markets Authority. KPN spokesman Stefan Simons
declined to comment on it.  When Mexico City-based  America Movil  said on Oct. 16 it was
dropping its pursuit, KPN shares had reached 2.42 euros. They
fell back below the 2.40-euro offer level yesterday, and traded
at 2.24 euros at 3:19 p.m. in Amsterdam today.  “There is of course a possibility that we’ll get back at
the table,” Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok said yesterday,
declining to comment on how much KPN wanted from America Movil.
“If a party makes an interesting offer, we’ll consider it.”  ‘Inadequate’ Offer  Malone’s Liberty Global Plc has built Europe’s largest
cable operator. It’s got companies in 12 European countries,
including  Germany  and the Netherlands, and bought the U.K.’s
Virgin Media Inc. for $16 billion in cash and shares this year.
While he lost out to Vodafone in Germany when the Newbury,
England-based mobile carrier outbid for Kabel Deutschland
Holding AG, his March investment in Ziggo has been lucrative.  He bought 12.7 percent of Ziggo, a year after it debuted on
the Amsterdam exchange, from Barclays Plc a week after the bank
failed to find enough buyers for its stake. Malone paid 25 euros
a share -- they rose 28 percent between his March arrival and
news of the bid’s rejection.  Ziggo rose 2.1 percent to 31.04 euros in Amsterdam after
reporting a third-quarter net income of 86.5 million euros,
beating the average analyst estimate of 78.4 million euros.  Liberty Global said in an Oct. 16 filing that it made a
preliminary proposal to Ziggo in August. Ziggo called the offer
“inadequate,” without disclosing the terms, and said there was
no guarantee Liberty Global would revise its offer.  Li Ka-Shing  Not all of the billionaires who bid on Europe’s phone
companies are blocked.  Asia ’s richest man,  Li Ka-Shing , agreed
to buy Telefonica’s Irish unit for as much as 850 million euros
in June after being rebuffed for Eircom Group, Ireland’s former
phone monopoly, when an examiner overseeing the company’s debt
restructuring rejected his 2 billion-euro offer.  Now Slim and Malone will have to decide what to do next.
Malone said in July that he may look in southern Europe once
valuations there hit bottom.  Slim also owns a stake in  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , which sells
Internet and phone service across Eastern Europe. The shares
jumped as much as 6.3 percent yesterday as investors bet the
Vienna-based company may become Slim’s consolation prize.  America Movil has been “a good partner,” Telekom Austria
CEO Hannes Ametsreiter said today in an investor conference in
Vienna. He said it is unlikely that America Movil will “turn
hostile,” adding he doesn’t know what may happen next.  “The telco sector is a super-interesting place to look
these days with so much activity happening,” said Lex Van Dam,
a fund manager who oversees $500 million at Hampstead Capital
LLP in  London . “Consolidation is a must so it’s just a matter
of time before we see the next deal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  