-- Bird Flu’s Return in China Seen Sped by New Year Chicken
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-18T09:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/bird-flu-s-return-in-china-seen-sped-by-new-year-chicken.html
The avian flu strain that killed 45
people in Asia last spring is poised to return as poultry flocks
swell before Chinese New Year, amplifying the virus that hides
undetected in birds.  A 35-year-old man from the eastern Chinese province of
Zhejiang is in serious condition after being infected with the
new H7N9 flu strain, health authorities said this week. It’s the
first confirmed human case in two months, according to the World
Health Organization in Geneva.  Human cases of H7N9 were first reported in  China  in March
and spiked in April before agriculture authorities temporarily
closed live poultry markets to limit human exposure. The WHO
counts 136 laboratory-confirmed cases to date. Three patients
remain hospitalized and 88 have been discharged, the United
Nations health agency said in an Oct. 16 statement.  “If an H7N9 outbreak starts again now it could spread much
further in China and infect a large amount of people unless
intensive measures are taken to control the outbreak in birds,”
said  Ben Cowling , an associate professor of infectious disease
epidemiology at the University of Hong Kong’s  school of public
health , in an interview.  The more people who get infected with H7N9, the greater the
chances of the virus mutating into a form that spreads more
easily among people, Cowling said.  Even though H7N9 hasn’t mutated to become as contagious as
seasonal flu, strains that emerge in China are of special
interest to researchers. The 1957-58 Asian Flu and 1968-69 Hong
Kong Flu  pandemics  were first identified in the world’s most
populous nation, and an earlier bird flu strain known as H5N1 is
 thought  to have come from the southern province of Guangdong in
1996. Years later, a new seasonal flu was found in neighboring
Fujian and triggered explosive epidemics worldwide.  Outside China  H7N9 has turned up outside mainland China. In late April,
officials in  Taiwan  reported a case in a 53-year-old man who had
just returned to Taiwan via Shanghai after a business trip to
the eastern city of Suzhou.  The virus can circulate widely in chickens, ducks and geese
without causing the mass die-offs characteristic of the H5N1
bird flu virus. Its stealth has made it difficult to track and
contain a germ that’s typically more active during the colder
winter months, scientists said.  New Year Threat  “We are just heading into re-emergence in November and
December,” said  Malik Peiris , a virologist at the University of
Hong Kong, who was part of an international team of flu
scientists that assisted the Chinese government in April
identify how people are catching the new virus. “It will of
course peak at Chinese New Year because it’s the time of maximum
poultry production.”  Chinese New Year is on Jan. 31 next year.  The latest H7N9 case, a man with the surname Liu, sought
medical attention on Oct. 8 and is hospitalized in Shaoxing
county, the  Zhejiang health bureau  said on Oct. 15.  Shanghai  began  reopening  poultry markets on June 20 to
cater to residents’ demand for live ducks and chickens, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported last month. The Shanghai
Municipal Commission of Commerce lists 102  live-poultry  markets
on its website. Shanghai’s largest, the Shuidian market in
Hongkou district, reopened on Aug. 30 after glass partitions and
separate exhaust pipes for areas used to store and slaughter
poultry were installed, Xinhua  reported  on Sept 10.  Call to Cull  Agriculture authorities are counting on the measures to
rebuff calls from health officials for mass culling of poultry
to eradicate the virus. Doctors studying disease patterns in
humans found that infected poultry are the principal source of
the infections in people.  When the Ministry of Agriculture tested 68,060 samples
collected from poultry markets, farms and slaughterhouses, they
found only 46 -- or 0.07 percent -- tested positive for the
virus, the official Xinhua news agency  reported  in April.  When researchers from the University of Hong Kong conducted
their own survey based on 1,341 specimens from chickens, ducks
and other birds, as well as 1,006 water and fecal samples from
bird markets, they found H7 viruses in 60, or 2.6 percent of
them, according to a study  published  in the journal Nature in
August.  “There’s competing interests in China between economic
development and human health, and there’s continual pressure on
these two essentially competing interests at all levels of
government,” said Hong Kong University’s Cowling.  Poultry consumers don’t want the markets to close, said Mao
Zhenjin, 70, who was buying live chickens at Shanghai’s Yinghua
Market on Wednesday to boil with potatoes and taro -- a local
specialty and one of his granddaughter’s favorite dishes.  ‘Taste the Difference’  “You can’t make this soup with frozen chicken because it’s
not fresh,” Mao said as he handed over 53  yuan  ($8.70) for a
1.5 kilogram (3-pound) chicken. “It’s like buying fish dead for
a long time -- you can taste the difference.”  Six percent of blood specimens from 396 poultry workers in
China were found to have antibodies against H7N9, according to a
Sept. 18 report in the Journal of Infectious Diseases. That
suggests dozens of people in contact with farmed birds have been
exposed to the virus without necessarily getting sick. None of
the 1,129 people from the general population had H7N9
antibodies.  “The data support the conclusion that influenza A(H7N9),
or a closely related virus, is circulating in live poultry
markets and that infected poultry is the principal source for
human infections,” wrote the authors, who included researchers
from Zhejiang University’s First Affiliated Hospital.  Cooler weather will enable viral particles to remain viable
for longer in the environment, such as in the air, on surfaces
or in water, Cowling said.  Death by Suffocation  In its severest form, the new strain damages the lungs so
badly that it causes suffocation even as other vital organs
rapidly shut down, doctors in Shanghai reported in April.  While laboratory experiments using ferrets -- the most-common animal model for human flu infections -- showed the virus
is capable of spreading from person to person, the WHO said this
week that there is no evidence of sustainable human-to-human
transmission so far.  Cases reported to the WHO may represent “the tip of the
iceberg,” the University of Hong Kong’s Peiris said in an
interview.  In 2009, a novel flu virus known as H1N1 that evolved in
pigs touched off the first influenza pandemic in 41 years. The
H5N1 bird flu strain, which killed at least 380 people over the
past decade, hasn’t acquired the ability to spread easily among
people.  If H7N9 starts spreading easily from human to human, “then
it’s a different ball game,” he said. “From all the evidence
we have this could be much more serious than  H1N1  was: looking
at human lung tissue experimental studies -- seasonal flu grows
on it like a weed, H5N1 really struggles, and H7N9 grows like a
bomb.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  