-- Treasury Yields Fall to Lowest in Week on Bets Fed Keeps Buying
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-10-17T14:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/blackrock-with-pimco-see-fed-taper-delay-as-treasuries-hold-gain.html
Treasury 10-year  note yields  fell to
the lowest level in more than a week on speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will maintain its bond-buying program into next year
after the government shutdown weighed on economic growth.  U.S. debt  advanced for a second day as  consumer confidence 
dropped to a two-year low and a regional factory gauge fell in
October. Treasury bill rates dropped for a second day after
lawmakers agreed on a plan to end the federal closure that
started Oct. 1 and to raise the borrowing limit, avoiding a
default and pushing the budget battle into early next year.  “The market is turning back to looking at the Fed,” said
Donald Ellenberger, who oversees about $10 billion as co-head of
government and mortgage-backed securities at Federated Investors
in Pittsburgh. “The uncertainty in the market and the economy
may keep the Fed on hold longer than anticipated, which is
supportive of Treasury prices.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.62 percent at 10:09 a.m. New York time
today, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.5
percent note due in August 2023 rose 13/32, or $4.06 per $1,000
face amount, to 98 31/32. Yields dropped six basis points
yesterday, the biggest decline since Sept. 18.  Treasuries have lost investors 2.5 percent this year,
according to  Bloomberg US Treasury Bond Index. (BUSY)  The Bloomberg
Global Developed  Sovereign Bond Index (BGSV)  has lost investors 3.71
percent in 2013.  Record Low  The seven-day  relative strength  index for the Treasury 10-year note yield was at 42 today, down from 47 yesterday and 70
on Oct. 15, according to Bloomberg data. A reading lower than 30
or above 70 suggests the security may be poised for a change in
direction.  While the yield has advanced from a record low of 1.379
percent in July 2012, it’s below the average of about 6.40
percent since September 1981, the start of the three-decade  bull
market  in bonds.  President  Barack Obama  just after midnight signed into law
a measure to extend the nation’s borrowing authority into early
2014 and end the shutdown.  The deal, which avoided a default of the world’s biggest
economy and means that federal workers return to their jobs
today, funds the government at Republican-backed spending levels
through Jan. 15, 2014, and suspends the debt limit through Feb.
7.  Slowing Purchases  “There’s one theme out there -- it’s overwhelmingly
negative for the economy and positive for the Fed not tapering,
which people are equating to higher Treasury prices,” said
Thomas Roth, senior Treasury trader in  New York  at Mitsubishi
UFJ Securities USA Inc.  In September, most Fed policy makers said the central bank
will probably reduce bond purchases -- used to support the
economy by putting downward pressure on borrowing costs -- this
year from the current rate of $85 billion a month.  Policy makers including Fed Bank of Kansas City President
Esther George are due to speak today.  “Most participants viewed their economic projections as
broadly consistent with a slowing in the pace of the committee’s
purchases of longer-term securities this year and the completion
of the program in mid-2014,” according to the record of the
 Federal Open Market Committee ’s Sept. 17-18 gathering.  Economic ‘Disruption’  “Because of the disruption, because of the uncertainty,
what’s likely to happen is a slower pace of tapering by the
Fed,” said  Russ Koesterich , chief investment strategist at
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager with $4.1
trillion in assets. Falling consumer confidence will depress
gross domestic product growth in the fourth quarter, New York-based Koesterich said on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up”
with  Susan Li .  The monthly Bloomberg Consumer Confidence Index
expectations gauge plunged to minus 31, the lowest level since
November 2011, from minus 9 in September, a report showed today.
The share of people projecting the economy will worsen jumped by
the most since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
five years ago.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general
 economic index  fell to 19.8 this month from 22.3 in September.
Readings greater than zero signal growth in the area, which
covers eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .
The median forecast of 56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a reading of 15.  Rates Drop  Rates on $120 billion of bills maturing today, when U.S.
borrowing authority was scheduled to lapse, dropped to 0.038
percent yesterday. They were as high as 0.51 percent Oct. 10.  The next securities due are $93 billion of debt maturing on
Oct. 24. Rates on those bills touched 0.68 percent yesterday
before dropping to 0.01 percent today. The rate was negative as
recently as Sept. 27.  One-month rates were 12 basis points lower at 0.02 percent
after touching 0.45 percent yesterday, the highest level since
October 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate
on bills due on Feb. 13 dropped three basis points to 0.06
percent, compared with an average of 0.035 percent since the
securities were issued in August.  Even at the height of concern about a default, yields
remained lower than historical levels, with one-month  rates 
averaging 1.5 percent in the past 10 years. During that time
they climbed to a high of 5.26 percent in November 2006 and fell
to as low as negative 0.09 percent in December 2008.  The U.S. is scheduled to announce today the size of a 30-year auction of Treasury Inflation Protected Securities set for
Oct. 24. It will be $7 billion, according to economic advisory
company Stone & McCarthy Research Associates.  Ratings Impact  The shutdown has shaved at least 0.6 percent from
annualized fourth-quarter growth,  Standard & Poor’s  said
yesterday. The ratings agency downgraded the U.S. on Aug. 5,
2011, by one step to AA+ from AAA.  China ’s Dagong Global Credit Rating, one of the country’s
four biggest credit-rating companies, downgraded the local- and
foreign-currency credit ratings of the U.S. to A- from A today,
maintaining a negative outlook, it said in an e-mailed statement
today.  China is the largest foreign holder of U.S. Treasuries and
increased its holdings to $1.28 trillion as of July, according
to U.S. government figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  