-- Blackstone Says Third-Quarter Profit Rose 3% on Performance Fees
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-10-17T11:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/blackstone-says-third-quarter-profit-rose-3-on-performance-fees.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
biggest manager of alternative assets such as private equity and
real estate, said third-quarter profit rose 3 percent as the
carrying value of its holdings gained.  Economic net income, a measure of  earnings  excluding some
costs tied to the firm’s 2007 initial public offering, increased
to $640.2 million, or 56 cents a share, from $621.8 million, or
55 cents, a year earlier, New York-based Blackstone said today
in a statement. Analysts on average expected 56 cents a share,
according to 15  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  Blackstone, under Chief Executive Officer Stephen Schwarzman and President Tony James, led a push by private-equity firms to expand their businesses beyond traditional
leveraged buyouts, which can produce lumpy earnings. The company
is chasing deals in Europe, where buyers can find more
distressed assets such as real estate threatened with
foreclosure and property developers burdened with debt. The
firm’s credit unit finished raising $5 billion during the
quarter to provide financing to companies in distress.  “We are most optimistic on Blackstone’s monetization
activity in the next one to two years,” Credit Suisse Group AG
analysts led by Howard Chen said in an Oct. 14 note to clients.
“Sizable deals” such as the $1.8 billion sale of Vanguard
Health Systems Inc. and “marquee IPOs” such as Hilton
Worldwide Holdings Inc. and  Brixmor Property Group Inc. (BRX)  will
drive returns, the analysts said.  Net Income  Blackstone reported results before the opening of trading
in New York. Its  shares  closed at $27.02 yesterday, having
surged 73 percent this year. The stock is still below the $31
price at which Blackstone sold shares to the public in 2007.  The company’s economic net income, or ENI, differs from
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Under those
standards, known as GAAP, Blackstone had net income of $171.2
million, compared with $128.8 million a year earlier.  Blackstone is seen as a bellwether for the buyout industry
given its size and reach across markets.  KKR & Co. (KKR) , the New
York-based firm run by cousins Henry Kravis and  George Roberts ,
is set to report results on Oct. 24.  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the
Washington-based firm that manages 118 funds and 81 funds-of-funds, is scheduled to report next month.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, overhaul then sell them, and
return the funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms,
which use debt to finance the deals and amplify returns,
typically charge an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent
to 2 percent of committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit
from investments as a carried interest.  Deals Decline  Worldwide, the value of private-equity deals announced in
the third quarter fell 33 percent to $69 billion from a year
ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The number of
deals fell 6.6 percent to 1,393, the data show.  Blackstone’s biggest diversification move has been the
growth of its real estate business, which oversees $69 billion
in assets. The group has raised about $2 billion for its fourth
European property fund, which is targeting 5 billion euros ($6.8
billion), and is seeking $4 billion for its initial pool
dedicated to real estate purchases in Asia.  The firm last month filed to take Hilton public in an
offering that could value the world’s largest hotel chain at
about $30 billion. Blackstone bought McLean, Virginia-based
Hilton in 2007 for $26 billion. It has put about $6 billion of
equity into the investment, the most money from its funds in a
single deal in the firm’s 28-year history.  Blackstone oversaw $248.1 billion in assets as of Sept. 30,
up from $229.6 billion at the end of the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  