-- BlackRock’s Fink Less Bullish on U.S. Stocks After Deal
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-10-17T16:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/blackrock-s-fink-less-bullish-on-u-s-stocks-after-debt-debate.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  Chief Executive
Officer Laurence D. Fink, who last year said he would invest 100
percent of his personal wealth in equities, said stock markets
may decline as a result of the political debate over the debt
ceiling.  “I’m much more worried about the U.S.,” Fink, who as head
of the world’s biggest money manager oversees $4.1 trillion in
assets, said today on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers”
with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . “We are going to see a
lower equity market and a longer period of lower rates” if
corporate earnings start to deteriorate in the fourth quarter
following the stalemate in  Washington , he said.  Fink said last week the U.S. would have a “very poor”
fourth quarter even if lawmakers reached a compromise and
extended the nation’s borrowing authority because retail sales
will suffer and uncertainty has led executives to avoid
investing in research, technology and development. Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services said yesterday the impasse had shaved at
least 0.6 percent off of fourth-quarter growth, taking $24
billion out of the economy. The ratings company forecast 2
percent annualized growth in the fourth quarter, down from the 3
percent seen last month.  Fink has said in the past he’s bullish on the U.S. over the
longer term, citing a strong banking system, an improving
housing market and the nation’s large supply of natural gas. In
January, he said he had lowered his expectations for the stock
market in the first quarter after being disappointed by the bill
U.S. lawmakers passed to avert spending cuts and tax increases.  Credit Watch  The government shutdown and debt-ceiling debate prompted
 Fitch Ratings  to put the U.S. on watch for a possible credit
downgrade on Oct. 15. The debt-ceiling debate has dissuaded
foreign investors from putting money in  U.S. debt , Fink said
during today’s interview.  “Many of our foreign investors have had conversations with
me and many at BlackRock about how should they think about
investing in U.S. debt over the next two years,” Fink said.  BlackRock, co-founded in 1988 by Fink, 60, was largely a
fixed-income manager until the mid-2000s. The firm diversified
beyond bonds through  acquisitions  including that of State Street
Research & Management Co. and Merrill Lynch & Co.’s investment
unit to add stocks and other assets. BlackRock’s 2009 purchase
of Barclays Plc’s investment division gave it iShares, the
world’s biggest provider of exchange-traded funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  