-- BMO’s Gregory Says Canada Housing in for Soft Landing
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   T h o r p e
-- 2013-10-17T19:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/bmo-s-gregory-says-canada-housing-market-in-for-soft-landing-.html
Canada ’s housing market will have a
“soft landing” after years of strong gains and recent steps by
policy makers to curb demand, said  Michael Gregory , senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets.  “Things don’t look too out of whack” for housing and
consumer finances, he told investors during an economist panel
discussion at the Bloomberg Focus Day Symposium in Toronto.
“Housing is going to cool, a soft landing still seems to be
unfolding,” he said.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has tightened lending rules
and sought greater control over the country’s housing agency on
concerns about  overbuilding  of condos in Toronto and  Vancouver .
While Flaherty has said in recent months that his moves should
be enough to prevent a bubble, existing home sales have risen
for seven straight months and housing starts increased 5.3
percent in September, led by condos.  Risks remain in the housing market even after the tighter
regulations, according to others on the panel including  Eric Lascelles , chief economist at RBC Global Asset Management.  “There is clearly quite an excess on the condo side across
the country but with obvious relevance to Toronto” for new
construction, he said. “It points to particular weakness in
that area, but not of a systemic variety.”  Canada’s ratio of debt to disposable income reached a
record 163.4 percent in the second quarter. Recent gains in the
housing market have been driven by consumers “spooked” by
signs mortgage rates would rise and diminish the potential for
future growth, said  Derek Holt , vice president of economics at
 Bank of Nova Scotia. (BNS)   Lofty Premiums  “We are still at very lofty premiums, record high 70
percent home ownership rate, record high debt-to-income ratio,
record high renovation spending,” Holt said.  “I don’t think we will go down the U.S. path because our
mortgage market is fundamentally different,” he said of the
housing market. “It’s a moderating period, and it’s part of
that not-terrible-but-Canada-underperformance story compared to
the U.S.”  Holt said the  Bank of Canada , which has kept its policy
interest rate at 1 percent since September 2010 to boost demand,
may stay on hold until at least late in 2015.  Governor Stephen Poloz is counting on a shift in demand to
business investment and exports from debt-fueled  consumer
spending . At a Sept. 18 press conference in Vancouver, Poloz
said “I don’t perceive that there is a bubble in Canada’s
housing market.”  Real Estate  The Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Confidence Index showed views
on real estate deteriorated last week, with 36.6 percent polled
predicting increased real estate values in their neighborhood,
down from 38.1 percent a week earlier.  The central bank may raise the key  interest rate  to 1.5
percent by the end of next year because of momentum in the
economy and concerns about housing, said Derek Burleton, deputy
chief economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank.  “Who would have thought we would be in this low interest
rate environment for so long,” Burleton said.  The Bank of Canada may raise interest rates before the U.S.
Federal Reserve at a pace modest enough to avoid any housing
crash, said Gregory of BMO Capital Markets.  “Housing markets don’t crash in and of themselves,
something has to happen, unless you have a pool of bad
mortgages, which of course we don’t have,” he said. “We aren’t
going to have any major drag on the economy coming from
housing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Toronto at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Thorpe in Toronto at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  