-- BOJ Vet Sees JGB Rout If Abe’s Third Arrow Misses: Japan Credit
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-10-17T03:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/boj-vet-sees-jgb-rout-if-abe-s-third-arrow-misses-japan-credit.html
Investors will lose confidence in
 Japan ’s economic revival unless Prime Minister Shinzo Abe adds
substance to his growth strategy and relies less on stimulus
measures, said a former senior central bank official.  “The situation will turn extremely dangerous if Abenomics
doesn’t take a new direction,” Hideo Hayakawa, who previously
served as  executive director  at the  Bank of Japan , said in an
interview in Tokyo on Oct. 15. Instead of laying the foundation
for a sustained expansion, “Abe is just putting pressure on the
BOJ to buy bonds and increasing fiscal spending by continuously
compiling economic packages.”  The so-called third arrow of Abe’s economic strategy
entered a key stage with the start this week of an extraordinary
Diet session where he aims to push through measures to boost
investment and industrial competitiveness. While the Topix Index
of shares has soared 39 percent this year, government debt is
more than double gross domestic product and the BOJ’s
unprecedented easing is causing dangerous distortions in the
bond market, according to Hayakawa.  “Much of the market is clearly numb to the risks,” said
Hayakawa, now a senior executive fellow at the Fujitsu Research
Institute. “Plainly stated, the situation in the government
 bond market  is becoming considerably dangerous.”  The domestic bond market isn’t signaling any immediate
signs of distress. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note was
unchanged today after falling 2 1/2 basis points to 0.64 percent
yesterday, the lowest level in the world for that maturity.
After the BOJ announced record easing in April, the yield swung
from a record low of 0.315 percent to as much as 1 percent in
the next month.  Slow Headway  Abe dubbed the current parliament a “session for getting
things done,” after his ruling coalition won July elections to
end a hung parliament that had been in place since 2007. The
session runs to Dec. 6.  Hayakawa said any progress in legislation probably won’t
alter his view on the slow headway Abe is making in implementing
his growth strategy. When Abe unveiled the plan in June, shares
declined and the yen strengthened.  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said in an Oct. 12  speech  that
the outlook for Japan’s economy is “perhaps brighter than at
any other point since the turn of the century.”  The BOJ promised in April to double the  monetary base , a
gauge of the  money supply , by the end of next year in a bid to
meet a 2 percent price target in about two years. Core consumer
prices, which exclude fresh food, rose 0.8 percent in August
from a year earlier, the biggest gain since November 2008, led
by higher energy prices and a weakening yen.  ‘Fighting Pose’  The central bank today offered to buy 850 billion yen ($8.6
billion) of Japanese  government bonds , the fifth such operation
in October in purchases that total more than 7 trillion yen each
month.  Etsuro Honda, an economic adviser to Abe, last week called
on the BOJ to be ready to ease further. “I want the BOJ to
constantly take a fighting pose as it takes time for the effects
of monetary policy to be felt,” Honda said in an interview with
 Bloomberg News  on Oct. 11.  Hayakawa’s concerns about the bond market were echoed by
International Monetary Fund Deputy Managing Director  Naoyuki Shinohara , who said in  Washington  last week it would be
dangerous for the BOJ to add to its easing before Abe implements
structural reforms, as it could give the impression that the
central bank is financing government deficits.  “It would be too risky for the BOJ to buy more Japanese
government bonds” when it becomes clear that the central bank’s
inflation target isn’t possible, Hayakawa said. “It’s better
for Governor Kuroda to urge more explicitly the need for fiscal
consolidation,” he said.  ‘Broken Thermometer’  Former BOJ board member Atsushi Mizuno on Oct. 2 called the
JGB market a ’’broken thermometer,’’ saying that it doesn’t
reflect concerns about Japan’s debt load or the economy due to
distortions caused by the BOJ’s purchases.  Demand rose at a sale of five-year JGBs yesterday,
signaling faith in the central bank’s backstop. Investors bid
for 4.8 times the 2.7 trillion yen of notes auctioned, an
increase from the so-called  bid-to-cover ratio  of 3.3 last month
and the 10-sale average of 3.8.  A lack of detailed plans for deficit reduction in Japan and
the U.S. combined with weak economic growth run counter to
efforts to cut the global debt burden, the IMF said in its
Fiscal Monitor report released on Oct. 9. Japan’s debt will
expand to 243.5 percent of GDP this year, more than double the
106 percent level in the U.S., according to the report.  Spending Packages  Abe’s government will compile a 5 trillion yen economic
package in December to offset damage from an increase in the
 sales tax  in April to 8 percent from 5 percent today. Hayakawa
predicted Abe may resort to additional fiscal stimulus if the
tax is raised to 10 percent as planned in October 2015. Abe
unveiled 10.3 trillion yen in fiscal spending in January.  Citigroup Inc.’s Surprise Index for Japan has dropped to
minus 26.6 since peaking at a record 91.7 in July, signaling
economic figures have increasingly fallen short of analyst
estimates. While a  similar gauge  for Group of 10 nations has
also slid since September, was at a positive 18.8 as of Oct. 15.  Historical  price volatility  of JGBs touched 1.58 percent
this month, the lowest since February and compared with a five-year high of 3.98 percent in June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The BOJ is  scheduled  to release its forecasts on
economic growth and inflation on Oct. 31.  “Bond yields are staying at these lows because of investor
expectations that policy makers will struggle to end
deflation,” said Makoto Suzuki, a senior bond strategist in
 Tokyo  at Okasan Securities Co., one of the 23 primary dealers
obliged to bid at government debt auctions. “Powerful bond
buying by the BOJ as well as market consensus that yields won’t
rise are contributing to low volatility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  