-- Bombardier Says CSeries Talks Have Progressed Since First Flight
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-10-17T17:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/bombardier-says-cseries-talks-have-progressed-since-first-flight.html
Bombardier Inc (BBD/B) ’s. efforts to sell
additional CSeries jetliners have progressed since the plane
took to the skies for the first time last month, one of the
company’s top marketing executives said.  More than 60 aircraft lessors and appraisers attended
presentations on the CSeries in Mirabel,  Quebec , earlier this
week, said Philippe Poutissou, vice president of marketing at
Bombardier’s commercial aircraft unit. Montreal-based Bombardier
last month hosted “dozens” of country delegations during the
triennial general assembly of the  International Civil Aviation
Organization  to show off the plane, he said.  The first CSeries test plane successfully completed its
maiden flight on Sept. 16 -- 8 1/2 months late. The jet will be
the company’s biggest ever, seating as many as 160 people.
Bombardier is depending on it as a catalyst to almost double
annual revenue toward the end of the decade.  “We’ve certainly advanced many discussions” since that
first flight, Poutissou said today in an interview at the
Canadian Aerospace Summit in Ottawa. “If you measure the level
of interest by the number of customers who’ve asked to come and
visit Mirabel since the aircraft has flown, it’s fantastic.”  Bombardier, the third-biggest aircraft maker, is still 123
firm orders short of a target of 300 by the time the CSeries
enters service in about a year. Mike Arcamone, who runs the
commercial aircraft unit, is in  China  this week to drum up
business for the jet, Poutissou said.  “We have a very strong pipeline, and we have conversations
at all stages” of development, Poutissou said. “We have
advanced conversations, where we’re talking about commercial
terms, and early conversations, where people are starting to
assess how the CSeries could fit into their business model.”  Bombardier has said the CSeries, which features the new
geared turbofan engine from  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt &
Whitney , will cost about 15 percent less to operate, cut fuel
burn by about 20 percent and produce less noise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Ottawa at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  