-- Booker Tops Tea Party Republican to Win U.S. Senate Seat
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-10-17T16:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/booker-tops-tea-party-republican-to-win-u-s-senate-seat.html
Newark Mayor  Cory Booker  beat Tea
Party-backed Republican Steven Lonegan in  New Jersey ’s special
 U.S. Senate  election, after a race the candidates cast as a
referendum on the partial federal government shutdown.  Booker topped Lonegan, 55 percent to 44 percent, according
to unofficial results from the state Elections Division. The
mayor will serve the remaining 15 months of the term of Senator
 Frank Lautenberg , who died in June, in a capital riven by
partisan battles over spending, debt and health care.  “Pundits tell us how little regard we have for  Washington 
and politicians, how cynical we’ve become,” Booker said at a
victory rally last night. “It would have been easy to listen to
this frustrating negativity and stay home today. But here in New
Jersey more than a million people rejected cynicism and came out
on a Wednesday, not in November but in the middle of October.”  Booker, 44, won by less than half the margin projected by
polls in August as Lonegan narrowed the gap by calling him a
champion of costly government, and accusing him of being more
focused on gaining the national spotlight than on New Jersey.
Lonegan, 57, said congressional Republicans “showed guts’ by
forcing the Oct. 1 shutdown over spending. He was embraced by
Tea Party groups that favor limited government.  Ending Gridlock  ‘‘This election was a rejection of a destructive Tea Party
agenda that shut down the government and threatened default on
our bills,’’  Debbie Wasserman Schultz , a U.S. representative
from Florida and chairwoman of the  Democratic National
Committee , said in a statement. Booker’s ‘‘arrival on  Capitol
Hill  will mean another vote to put gridlock aside.’’  Congress ended the shutdown and extended the nation’s
borrowing limit last night, breaking the logjam and handing
Democrats led by President  Barack Obama  a clear victory.  New Jersey’s Elections Division will review official
results from each of the 21 county clerks and the Board of State
Canvassers will certify the results on or before Nov. 13, said
Donna Barber, the state’s manager of elections. Senate leaders
will decide when to seat Booker.  Fundraising Edge  Voters in New Jersey haven’t elected a Republican to the
U.S. Senate since 1972. Booker, a darling of Wall Street
executives and West Coast technology entrepreneurs, raised $11.5
million during the race, compared with Lonegan’s $1.36 million.  ‘‘We came well closer to winning this election than anyone
expected,” Lonegan told supporters last night in Bridgewater.
He thanked  Chris Christie , who wasn’t in the audience, saying
the Republican governor had done “everything short of going
door-to-door and putting up lawn signs.”  Christie, 51, who is seeking a second term, set an August
primary and an October special election for the Senate seat
after Lautenberg died from pneumonia at age 89. Christie
installed Jeffrey Chiesa, a Republican, as a temporary
replacement who didn’t campaign for the seat.  While Christie said the schedule was made to fill the post
as quickly as possible, Democrats said it was designed to keep
the popular Booker off the November ballot and help the governor
secure a wider victory margin. Christie led his Democratic
challenger, state Senator Barbara Buono, by 29 percentage points
in a Quinnipiac University poll released today. He is a
potential 2016 candidate for president.  Low Turnout  Twenty-four percent of New Jersey’s 5.5 million registered
voters cast ballots yesterday, according to the state tally.
That’s half the 48 percent who voted in 2006, the last year a
U.S. Senate race topped the ballot. That election was held in
November on Election Day.  Booker, a prolific Twitter user with 1.4 million followers
on the social media website, cast himself himself as a new kind
of politician who would bring change to Washington. His campaign
seized on Lonegan’s support for Republican politicians such as
U.S. Senator  Ted Cruz  of Texas, who he blamed for the shutdown.  He’s the first black U.S. senator from New Jersey, and the
state will become the second ever to have two non-white senators
serving together. Democrat  Robert Menendez , New Jersey’s senior
senator, is Cuban-American. Hawaii has had two Asian-American
lawmakers serving side-by-side for most of its history, though
not at the moment.  “I have no illusions about what one senator can do,”
Booker said last night. “I am going down to make the Senate
more accessible to all of us. I am going down to bring more
voice to the voiceless.”  Food Stamps  A Rhodes Scholar and Yale University-educated lawyer who
moved to Newark in 1996, Booker spoke at the 2012 Democratic
National Convention and helped lead its platform committee. He
gained national attention last year for saving a neighbor from a
fire and for living on  food stamps  for a week to show the
difficulty of relying on the government-assistance program.  His efforts to add development and reduce crime in New
Jersey’s largest city lured investments from  Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  and hedge-fund managers including  Bill Ackman  and  Leon Cooperman . Booker was endorsed by Obama, and
several celebrities gave him financial backing and campaign
assistance, including  Oprah Winfrey  and actress Eva Longoria.  Lonegan failed in bids for the U.S. House of
Representatives in 1998 and for governor in 2005 and 2009. From
1996 to 2008 he was mayor of Bogota, a Democratic-leaning
borough of 8,000 people six miles (10 kilometers) west of
Manhattan. He used the job as a platform for smaller government,
successfully suing the state in 2003 to require voter approval
of bond sales.  Shutdown Politics  Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich Institute for New
Jersey Politics at  Rider University  in Lawrenceville, said
yesterday’s election was “a vote as much for a certain kind of
politics as much as for any party or personality.”  “The shutdown framed the last two weeks of this race and
very clearly  New Jerseyans  voted against those who shunned
compromise,” Dworkin said. He said Booker’s win showed the
state’s voters favor politicians willing to compromise.  Dworkin said he expects the state to back Christie’s re-election by a large margin in three weeks. Both Booker and the
governor have worked with opposition politicians, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  