-- Boston Scientific Pays $30 Million in Heart-Device Accord
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-10-17T19:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/boston-scientific-pays-30-million-in-heart-device-accord.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  agreed to
pay $30 million to settle a lawsuit in which a whistle-blower
alleged the company’s Guidant unit knowingly sold defective
heart devices, U.S. officials said.  Guidant, which Boston Scientific bought in 2006 for
$27.5 billion, was accused of hiding defects in its Prizm line
of heart defibrillators from patients, doctors and the U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration , the U.S. Justice Department, which
joined the suit, said today in a statement.  Boston Scientific paid $296 million almost four years ago
to resolve a government probe of Guidant’s handling of its heart
devices. Guidant officials pleaded guilty on behalf of the
company in 2011 to a criminal charge for misleading regulators.
The company was placed on probation for three years.  “This settlement, along with the prior criminal
prosecution of Guidant, demonstrates there will be significant
consequences when companies engage in conduct that threatens
health and safety and violates the law,” Stuart Delery,
assistant attorney general in the  Justice Department ’s civil
division, said in the statement.  James Allen, the recipient of a Prizm defibrillator who
filed the original suit, will receive $2.25 million as part of
the settlement. Allen lives in Lancaster, New York, according to
court records.  Company Comment  “While the company continues to deny the allegations made
in the complaint, it felt it was in the best interests of all
parties to settle this matter and avoid further protracted
litigation,” Peter Lucht, a spokesman for Natick,
Massachusetts-based Boston Scientific, said in an interview.  Allen and U.S. officials argued in the suit filed in
federal court in  Minnesota  that Guidant knew as early as 2002
that the implantable cardiac devices had a potentially life-threatening defect. Guidant is based in  St. Paul , Minnesota.  By selling faulty devices while it was also selling
corrected ones, “it was reasonably foreseeable” that defective
versions would be implanted in Medicare patients, according to
the complaint. Guidant “knowingly caused approximately 2,000
false or fraudulent claims to be submitted to the Medicare
program,” the U.S. said.  The settlement brings to $972 million the total amount
heart-defibrillator makers Boston Scientific and  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) 
have paid to resolve suits and federal investigations of claims
their defective devices caused at least 13 deaths, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Allen v. Guidant LLC, 11-cv-00022,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 