-- Brazil Says Current Pace of Key Rate Increases Adequate
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-10-17T16:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/brazil-central-bank-says-current-pace-of-rate-increases-adequate.html
Brazil ’s central bank said its
current pace of interest rate increases remains appropriate to
ensure inflation slows, prompting  Latin America ’s biggest bank
to forecast the benchmark rate will go to 10 percent next month.  Policy makers, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
unanimously last week to raise the benchmark Selic rate to 9.5
percent from 9 percent, marking the fourth straight 50 basis-point, or 0.50 percentage point, increase. The central bank
estimates inflation will remain above its 4.5 percent target
through the third quarter of 2015 in both its reference and
market scenarios, officials said in the minutes to their Oct.
8-9 meeting published today.  Policy makers “consider adequate the continuity of the
rhythm of adjustment of monetary conditions now under way,” the
bank said in the minutes.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA today scrapped its estimate for a
final 25-point Selic increase and joined in forecasting that
central bankers will raise the rate to 10 percent in November,
as the biggest depreciation amid major currencies over the past
six months threatens to stoke above-target  inflation . Higher
living costs have sapped consumer and business  confidence ,
forcing Tombini to implement the largest tightening cycle among
major economies even as growth sputters.  Incompatible Outlook  “The Copom remains uncomfortable with this resilience” in
inflation, said Itau, Latin America’s biggest bank by market
value, in a research note signed by chief economist  Ilan Goldfajn . “The minutes maintained the tone of recent
communication, signaling the pace of interest rate hikes will
continue.”  Other banks including Barclays Plc, Goldman Sachs and Banco
Espirito Santo de Investimento today also changed their
forecasts for November’s monetary policy meeting to a 50-point
jump from 25 points.  “The central bank is signaling intentions for a 50-point
increase in November,”  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Banco
Espirito Santo, said by phone. “When the bank’s inflation
outlook is incompatible with its goal, it has to act.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 10.44 percent at 12:46 p.m. local time. The
real strengthened 0.9 percent to 2.1616 per dollar.  Brazil since April has raised borrowing costs by 225 basis
points, or 2.25 percentage points, from a historic low of 7.25
percent. That’s the biggest increase among 49 world economies
tracked by Bloomberg this year, followed by  Indonesia  with a 1.5
percentage-point increase.  Inflation Target  Annual inflation in September eased to 5.86 percent, the
slowest since December. The central bank is committed to
bringing inflation to its target, and seeks slower consumer
price increases next year compared with 2013, Tombini told
reporters in  Washington  on Oct. 11.  While the real surged 12.7 percent since the central bank
on Aug. 22 announced a $60 billion intervention plan, the
currency is still down 7.5 percent in the past six months, the
worst performance among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. A weaker currency threatens to fan inflation by
making the price of imported goods more expensive.  Brazil’s retail sales in August topped economists’
forecasts for the second straight month, while industrial output
in the same period unexpectedly stalled on slower consumer goods
production.  Slightly Positive  Brazil’s gross domestic product was unchanged or slightly
positive in the third quarter after accelerating more than
analysts expected in the second quarter, according to two
government officials familiar with estimates who asked not to be
named because the forecasts aren’t public.  The central bank last month increased its 2014 year-end
inflation estimate to 5.7 percent from 5.2 percent, basing its
call on a year-end Selic of 9.75 percent. Policy makers reduced
their 2013 economic growth forecast to 2.5 percent from 2.7
percent.  Economists surveyed in a weekly central bank survey have
cut their 2014 growth expectations to 2.20 percent from a high
of 3.80 percent in February, while boosting inflation forecasts
for next year to 5.95 percent from 5.50 percent over the same
period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  