-- Bridgestone Adopts English as Official Language in Global Push
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-10-17T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/bridgestone-adopts-english-as-official-language-in-global-push.html
Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the Tokyo-based
tiremaker, found that presentations and discussions went much
smoother after its top managers began conducting some meetings
in English instead of Japanese beginning last year.  The results have been so encouraging that the world’s
biggest tiremaker has decided it will gradually implement
English as Bridgestone’s official language, Chief Executive
Officer Masaaki Tsuya said at a briefing yesterday, speaking in
Japanese without interpreters. The decision is part of the
company’s mid-term plan to become “truly global,” he said.  Bridgestone joins  Fast Retailing Co. (9983) , Asia’s biggest
clothing chain, and Internet shopping mall  Rakuten Inc. (4755)  in
adopting English as the official language as they expand
globally and seek to hire more international workers. Still, the
companies remain a tiny minority in  Japan , where English
proficiency remains poor despite the language being taught for
nine years from primary school.  “We think this is the right way to go,” Tsuya said.
“Especially for our young employees, we’re going to tell them
that English is a must if they want to move up the ladder.”  Japan’s indifference to English was highlighted by Finance
Minister Taro Aso, who suggested that corporate Japan’s poor
language skills were actually an asset, helping it escape the
worst of the 2008 financial meltdown as the nation’s bankers
hardly understood English and hence didn’t buy subprime loans.  English Reports  Bridgestone currently distributes some of its internal
monthly and quarterly reports in English, said Tsuya, who holds
an MBA from the  University of Chicago .  “Many Japanese companies don’t want to go learn English
and become global because it’s a lot of work to change,” said
 Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at the Dai-ichi Life
Research Institute in  Tokyo . “But unless you only make and sell
products within Japan, you need to become more global.”  At yesterday’s briefing, Bridgestone said it will invest
41.6 billion yen ($424 million) to boost output capacity at a
car radial-tire plant under construction in Hai Phong City,
Vietnam. The company will also shut a steel-cord plant in Japan
next year because of difficulty maintaining its competitiveness.  Bridgestone expects net income to jump  43 percent  to 246
billion yen this year, amid a decline in raw material costs and
a weaker Japanese currency. That compares with the 259 billion
yen average of 15 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The  tiremaker  has climbed 61 percent in Tokyo trading this
year, outperforming the 40 percent gain in the  benchmark   Nikkei
225 (NKY)  Stock Average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  