-- British Gas Raises Energy Prices as Labour Pushes Price-Cap Plan
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-10-17T11:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/british-gas-raises-energy-prices-as-labour-pushes-price-cap-plan.html
Britain’s largest energy supplier
announced a price increase, intensifying the political debate
about higher utility bills and the rising cost of living.  British Gas, owned by  Centrica Plc (CNA) , said it will raise
household prices by an average of 9.2 percent next month, more
than three times the rate of inflation. It’s the second of the
six suppliers that dominate the U.K. market to raise prices
after  SSE Plc (SSE)  said bills will go up 8.2 percent last week.  “These are very disappointing announcements by British
Gas,” Prime Minister David Cameron said in a BBC interview.  Labour leader Ed Miliband said last month that he would
freeze energy prices for 20 months if his party wins the 2015
general election. Cameron’s Conservative Party has tried to
increase competition to address the price increases that energy
companies say are needed to offset higher wholesale prices,
delivery costs and surcharges required to pay for government
environmental programs.  U.K.  consumer prices  rose 2.7 percent in September from a
year earlier, while average wages increased by only an annual
0.7 percent in the three months through August.  Price Caps  Labour’s plan to cap energy prices until the start of 2017
represents the starkest dividing line yet with Cameron as the
cost of living comes becomes an election issue. The government’s
Energy Bill going through Parliament gives ministers some powers
to force companies to move some customers onto less costly
tariffs.  Labour leader Miliband accused Cameron of not doing enough
to keep energy prices down when they clashed at the premier’s
weekly question-and-answer session in the House of Commons
yesterday.  “It is make-up-your-mind time for the prime minister,”
Miliband said. “Whose side is he on: the energy companies’ or
the consumers’?”  Cameron responded that “of course we all want to see
energy prices come down. That is why we are putting people on
the lowest tariff, but the one thing that will not work is a
price con, and that is what he is recommending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  