-- Brixmor to Raise as Much as $787.5 Million in REIT IPO
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-10-17T14:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/brixmor-to-raise-as-much-as-787-5-million-in-reit-ipo.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s  Brixmor
Property Group Inc. (BRX) , the second-largest U.S. shopping-center
landlord, plans to raise as much as $787.5 million in a U.S.
initial public offering to pay down debt.  Brixmor plans to sell 37.5 million shares for $19 to $21
each, excluding an overallotment for underwriters, the New York-based real estate investment trust said in a regulatory filing
today. Proceeds will be used mainly to repay about $628.5
million under a  credit line  that matures in 2017.  The offering would be the largest IPO by a retail REIT
since  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the world’s biggest owner of
shopping malls, raised $840 million in 1993, according to the
National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, a
Washington-based trade group. Blackstone is taking Brixmor
public at a time when U.S. shopping-center occupancies are at
the highest in almost four years and rents are climbing.  Including the underwriter option to purchase additional
shares, the offering may be as much as $905.6 million, topping
Indianapolis-based Simon as the largest retail REIT IPO.  Brixmor owns and operates 522 retail centers, more than 70
percent of which are anchored by a market-leading grocery store,
the company said in the filing. Most of the centers are located
in the Eastern U.S. and Midwest. It’s the No. 2 U.S. shopping-center landlord by number of properties, behind Kimco Realty
Corp. of  New Hyde Park ,  New York .  Market Value  Brixmor is selling about 12.7 percent of the company in the
IPO after the exchange of all outstanding unit shares, according
to the filing. That implies a market value of about $5.9
billion, based on the midpoint of the  price range .  Among U.S. shopping-center REITs, Brixmor’s market value at
that range would trail Kimco and  Federal Realty Investment
Trust (FRT) , and be about even with DDR Corp., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Brixmor is selling all the shares being offered in the IPO,
according to the filing. Blackstone will own about 73 percent of
the common shares after the IPO, the filing shows. Centerbridge
Partners LP will own 8.3 percent.  Blackstone acquired the core of Brixmor’s assets in 2011,
when it bought U.S. shopping centers from  Australia ’s debt-laden
 Centro Properties Group . The firm sold some of the properties
and acquired others, improving the quality of the portfolio,
said Cedrik Lachance, managing director in charge of retail
research at  Newport Beach , California-based Green Street
Advisors Inc.  ‘Much Stronger’  “This is an asset base that is much stronger than the
Centro asset base that was acquired by Blackstone,” he said.  Blackstone invested additional equity to buy shopping
centers from Equity One Inc. and Regency Centers Corp. Most of
those properties became part of Brixmor.  Brixmor is Blackstone’s third-biggest real estate
investment by equity capital invested, after Hilton Worldwide
Holdings Inc. and Equity Office. Blackstone’s $10.9 billion
property fund raised in 2008, Blackstone Real Estate Partners
VI, invested $1 billion of equity in the Centro purchase, and
investors put in $1.3 billion, according to a fund prospectus
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “Blackstone is raising capital to reduce leverage in that
portfolio but more important, they are listing the shares to
provide liquidity to their funds,” Lachance said.  Blackstone today reported a 3 percent increase in third-quarter  profit , bolstered by gains in its real estate group.  Shares of retail-focused REITs have declined in recent
months amid concern that rising interest rates will increase
landlords’ borrowing costs and hurt property values. The
Bloomberg REIT Shopping Center Index of 18 companies fell 12
percent through yesterday from a five-year high in May.  Brixmor plans to list its shares on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker BRX.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  