-- Bulgarian Premier Oresharski Survives Second No-Confidence Vote
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-10-17T12:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/bulgarian-premier-oresharski-survives-second-no-confidence-vote.html
Bulgarian Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski’s minority Cabinet survived the second no-confidence
vote in a month called by former Premier Boyko Borissov’s Gerb
party over its regional development policy.  Lawmakers in the poorest European Union country rejected
the motion in a 118-93 vote, with 20 abstentions in the 240-seat
assembly, Speaker Mihail Mikov said in parliament today. Gerb
won a May election but was unable to muster support to form a
government. Oresharski overcame a similar no-confidence vote
over his investment policies on Oct. 2.  “The prime minister and his cabinet are gaining
confidence,” Antonyi Galabov, a political analyst at the New
Bulgarian University in Sofia, said. “The government looks far
more stable now and the risk of causing a political crisis by a
no-confidence vote is declining.”  Oresharski, a former finance minister, came to power on May
29 after anti-austerity protests forced out Borissov and
triggered a snap vote. His cabinet, backed by the Socialists and
the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which represents ethnic
Turks, has survived about four months of street protests against
what demonstrators say is a corrupt political system.  The yield on  Bulgaria ’s euro-denominated bonds maturing in
2017 fell 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.191
percent at 2:30 p.m. in Sofia today. The cost of insuring the
country’s debt against non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps rose two basis points to 119.  Borissov’s Gerb controls 97 seats in parliament and plans
to call a third no-confidence vote over cultural policies
tomorrow, Borissov told reporters in Sofia today. Oresharski
said his government would focus on trying to raise living
standards of poorer Bulgarians.  “Our government will strive to overturn the trend and
through its regional policy reduce the vast gap between big
cities and remote towns,” Oresharski said in parliament after
the vote today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  