-- Canada’s Dollar Reaches Two-Week High Amid Bets on Fed
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-10-17T21:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/canadian-dollar-reaches-one-week-high-on-fed-stimulus-wagers.html
The Canadian dollar strengthened to
a two-week high on speculation the Federal Reserve will maintain
stimulus measures to counteract disruption in economic growth
triggered by the U.S. government shutdown.  The currency approached its 200-day moving average against
the greenback, a signal to some traders that there may be
momentum for further gains. It advanced for a second day as
President  Barack Obama  signed legislation that extended funding
and debt-ceiling deadlines into 2014 and reopened the
government, ending a 16-day standoff between Republican and
Democratic lawmakers.  “There’s a base of a bullish channel that’s guided this
whole move up,” Matthew Perrier, director of foreign exchange
at Bank of Montreal, said by phone from Toronto. “If the
Canadian dollar can continue on its path and close above the
200-day moving average, that would certainly set the stage for
potential continuation of the Canadian rally and bring parity
back into the market’s view.”  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is known for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, gained 0.4 percent to C$1.0289
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched C$1.0281, the
strongest level since Sept. 30. The 200-day moving average, now
C$1.0256, was last breached on Sept. 19. One loonie buys 97.19
U.S. cents. The currencies last traded on a one-for-one basis in
February.  Price Swings  Implied volatility for one-month options on Canada’s dollar
versus its U.S. counterpart reached 5.4 percent, the least since
May. The measure is used to set option prices and gauge the
expected pace of currency swings. The average for this year is
6.6 percent.  The U.S. central bank purchases $85 billion of bonds a
month to put pressure on long-term borrowing rates and spur
growth. Policy makers unexpectedly refrained from reducing the
purchases last month, saying they wanted more evidence of an
economic recovery.  “The Fed is moving slowly toward tapering, and until we
get clarity on what the message is from the next big data point,
we’ll probably stay in these ranges,”  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities
unit in Toronto, said by phone.  Futures on crude oil, the nation’s largest export, fell 1.6
percent to $100.70 per barrel in New York, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks added 0.7 percent.  Canadian government bonds rose, pushing the yield on
benchmark 10-year debt down five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.56 percent. The 1.5 percent security
maturing in June 2023 gained 44 cents to C$91.03.  CPI Data  Canada’s inflation rate is forecast to have slowed, a
report from Statistics Canada will show tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. in
Ottawa. Consumer price increased 1 percent in September compared
with a year ago, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. In August the index showed a 1.1 percent increase.  The rate is at the bottom of the Bank of  Canada ’s 1 to 3
percent target band, muting calls for an end to the longest
pause in interest rates since the 1950s. Central bank policy
makers will hold their next meeting on Oct. 23.  Purchases of Canadian securities by foreigners slowed in
August as investors sold government bonds. While foreigners
bought a net C$2.03 billion of bonds, they sold C$1.22 billion
in government debt, including C$883 million in federal issues.
Foreign investors sold a net C$2.4 billion of Canadian
government bonds between January and August, Statistics Canada
said, compared with net purchases of C$28.7 billion in the same
period a year earlier.  Total purchases so far this year have slowed to C$24
billion, less than half of the C$51.2 billion total for the same
period in 2012.  Harper’s Plans  Prime Minister Stephen Harper said yesterday he plans to
legislate an end to budget deficits and stimulate economic
growth through trade and resource development in an agenda he’s
counting on to secure his re-election in 2015.  Harper, who won his first majority mandate in 2011, said he
will introduce laws to require balanced budgets in “normal
economic times, and concrete timelines for returning to balance
in the event of an economic crisis.” The agenda, which also
highlighted plans to complete a European Union trade deal, was
delivered in Ottawa in a Speech from the Throne that marks the
ceremonial opening of a new legislative session.  The Canadian dollar has fallen 2.4 percent this year
against nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The Australian dollar is
down 6.5 percent, and the U.S. dollar has added 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  