-- Canada’s Harper Targets Balanced Budgets for Re-Election
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-10-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/canada-s-harper-targets-balanced-budgets-for-re-election.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said
he would legislate an end to budget deficits and stimulate
economic growth through trade and resource development in an
agenda he’s counting on to secure his re-election in 2015.  Harper, who won his first majority mandate in 2011, said he
will introduce laws to require balanced budgets in “normal
economic times, and concrete timelines for returning to balance
in the event of an economic crisis.” The agenda, which also
highlighted plans to complete a European Union trade deal, was
delivered yesterday in Ottawa in a  Speech  from the Throne that
marks the ceremonial opening of a new legislative session.  “The global economy still faces significant risks from
factors that we do not control,” according to the speech, which
by tradition was read in the Senate by the country’s governor
general, David Johnston. “We must stay the course. And sound
management remains our government’s guide.”  Harper’s office said in a media advisory shortly after the
speech concluded he’ll travel to Brussels today to meet European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  with the aim of concluding the
EU trade agreement.  Harper reiterated his pledge to balance the  budget  by 2015
and lower the nation’s debt-to-gross domestic product ratio to
25 percent by 2021, bringing debt levels to the lowest since the
1970s, as part of commitments by Group of 20 nations to
establish longer-term fiscal strategies.  Asset Review  Harper, 54, also pledged to freeze the federal government’s
total operating budget, and make the public service more
efficient, including a review of federal assets to determine
whether they need to be sold.  Canada’s economy has struggled to  build steam  over the past
year as demand for the nation’s exports slumps and business
investment remains weak.  Canada  is also grappling with an aging
workforce and lagging productivity growth.  Brazil, Russia and  India  have overtaken Canada’s economy,
which has dropped to the world’s 11th-largest, since 2006 when
Harper came to power.  A Senate expenses scandal implicating Conservative
lawmakers has dogged the prime minister this year and undermined
his efforts to keep the public’s focus on his economic record.
Nigel Wright, a former managing director at Toronto-based
private-equity firm  Onex Corp. (OCX) , resigned as Harper’s chief of
staff in May amid a police investigation following the
disclosure he paid about C$90,000 ($87,200) to Senator Mike
Duffy to help cover ineligible expense claims.  Although Conservatives have fallen in public opinion polls
since the scandal broke, Harper continues to have an edge on
economic issues, surveys  show .  Consumer Issues  Canadians should be allowed to purchase individual channels
from cable television providers, rather than having to buy
packages, according to the speech, and the government will
encourage wireless firms to lower domestic roaming fees.
Harper’s administration has tussled with the country’s largest
telecommunications providers --  BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Rogers Communications
Inc. (RCI/B)  and  Telus Corp. (T)  -- seeking to limit their power and open
the market to more competition.  Throne-speech promises also included expanding “no-cost”
basic banking services and closing the gap between U.S. and
Canadian prices for consumer products. “Canadian families work
hard to make ends meet, and every dollar counts,” the prime
minister said in the televised speech, which was given in the
parliamentary chamber that houses the Senate. “While companies
will look out for their bottom line, our government is looking
out for everyday Canadians.”  New Democratic Party lawmaker Tom Mulcair, leader of the
biggest opposition party in the country’s legislature, said
Harper was attempting to “change the channel” from the Senate
scandal by emphasizing measures to aid consumers.  Jobs, Growth  The Conservative Party government will continue to welcome
“market-oriented” foreign investment in the natural resources
of Canada, home to the world’s third largest crude reserves,
Harper said in the speech.  Jobs and growth remain his government’s top priorities and
the nation’s prosperity depends on the “responsible
development” of its resources, he said, reiterating the
government had taken steps to keep key industries out of
foreign-government control.  Harper said in December that Canada would permit
acquisitions of oil-sands businesses by foreign state-owned
enterprises only under “exceptional circumstances.”  Keystone Pipeline  His efforts to encourage resource infrastructure projects,
in part by expediting environmental reviews, has faced
opposition from environmentalists and aboriginal leaders, as
well as some provinces. The fate of the Keystone XL pipeline --
one of the most significant projects -- remains in the hands of
President  Barack Obama , years after the pipeline’s plans were
first submitted for approval.  The government will reduce  carbon emissions  from the oil
and gas sector, while improving the safety of commercial tankers
and requiring shippers and railways to carry more insurance,
according to the speech.  “Our government believes, and Canadians expect, that
resource development must respect the environment,” Harper
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  