-- Canadian Railway Dispute With Workers May Disrupt Grain Exports
-- B y   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-10-17T17:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/canadian-railway-dispute-with-workers-may-disrupt-grain-exports.html
A possible strike or lockout by
 Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  workers may disrupt grain
shipments and lead to contract penalties and defaults, according
to the Western Grain Elevator Association.  About 95 percent of  Canada ’s export grain is shipped by
rail, and half of that is moved by Canadian National Railway,
said Wade Sobkowich, executive director of the Winnipeg-based
association, which represents grain-handlers including Viterra
Inc., Cargill Inc. and Richardson International. A labor dispute
causing delays would interrupt deliveries at a time when farmers
are harvesting record wheat and canola crops.  “The issue is not only the immediate stoppage in the
movement of grain from country elevators to export terminal
facilities, but the inability for the railways to recover from
these lost shipments,” Sobkowich said in an e-mail statement.
“The railways do not invest in surge capacity to make up
shipping. Once it’s lost, it’s lost.”  Canadian National  is optimistic it will settle a dispute
with 2,800 rail workers before Oct. 29, the earliest date for a
strike or lockout, Mark Hallman, a company spokesman, said by
telephone from Concord, Ontario. Negotiations between the
railway and Teamsters Canada Rail Conference, the union that
represents the company’s  conductors, railmen and yardmen, will
resume Oct. 21 with mediators appointed by the federal minister
of labor, he said.  Expired Contract  The labor contract expired in July and the railway has been
bargaining with the union since then, Hallman said. The railway
declined to disclose how much of its fleet is devoted to
shipping grain to terminals in  Vancouver , Prince Rupert and
Thunder Bay.  Wheat production will probably expand to 33 million metric
tons, up 22 percent from 27.1 million in 2012 and exceeding the
record harvest of 32.1 million tons in 1990,  Statistics Canada 
said in an Oct. 4 forecast. The canola harvest in Canada, the
world’s largest grower, may climb to 16.0 million tons,
surpassing the record of 14.6 million tons in 2011, the
government agency said.  The Teamsters union is gearing up for a fight with the
railway company and on concessions that would require workers to
work longer hours with less rest time between trips, according
to an Oct. 14  statement  on the union’s website.  None of the railway’s bargaining proposals would compromise
the health and safety of workers, Hallman said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  