-- Capital One Beats Analysts’ Estimates on Income From Investments
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-17T20:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/capital-one-beats-analysts-estimates-on-income-from-investments.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the
bank that gets more than half its  revenue  from credit cards,
posted a third-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as
revenue from investments rose.  Net income fell 5.2 percent to $1.12 billion, or $1.86 a
share, from $1.18 billion, or $2.01, a year earlier, the McLean,
Virginia-based company said today in a statement. Profit from
continuing operations, which excludes some items, was $1.88 a
share, beating the $1.81 average estimate of 27 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “One could argue that the pickup in auto lending and other
consumer lending should benefit” Capital One, Oppenheimer &
Co.’s Chris Kotowski and Ben Chittenden wrote in a Sept. 26
report. The sale or maturing of assets is making it hard for
Capital One to grow loan balances, the analysts wrote.  Capital One, vying to counter a drop in consumer loan
demand, is seeking to expand beyond its core credit-card
business. It hired at least three bankers last quarter for its
securities group, which arranges foreign-exchange transactions
for corporate clients, offers financing for municipalities,
conducts research, underwrites securities and advises energy
companies. The lender also bought a commercial real estate firm
to expand in multifamily home lending.  The bank, led by Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank,
also is seeking to return more capital to investors. The lender
boosted its quarterly  dividend  sixfold this year and said in
July that it will buy back as much as $1 billion of stock.  Retail Sales  Capital One fell 10 cents to $72.15 at 4 p.m. in New York.
The shares have climbed 25 percent this year, compared with the
27 percent advance for the 24-company KBW Bank Index. Chittenden
has an outperform rating on the stock and expects it
to reach $78 within 12 months.  Retail sales in the U.S. rose 0.2 percent in August, less
than forecast and the smallest gain in four months, the Commerce
Department reported Sept. 13. Retail sales growth may have
stalled in September for the first time since October 2012,
according to the  median estimate  of economists.  American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, said yesterday that third-quarter profit rose 9.3
percent to $1.37 billion on higher worldwide card spending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  