-- Carrefour Sales Meet Estimates on French Hypermarket Gain
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-10-17T07:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/carrefour-sales-meet-estimates-on-french-hypermarket-gain.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , France’s largest
retailer, said domestic hypermarket sales rose for the first
time in more than two years as its turnaround gathered pace,
sending its shares to the highest price since 2011.  Revenue at French hypermarkets open at least a year gained
1.9 percent in the third quarter, Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour said today in a statement. The measure last
showed growth in the second quarter of 2011.  Lower prices and refurbished outlets are helping Carrefour
stage a revival in its home market, where sales have barely
grown in the past decade. The stronger performance in France is
also compensating for weakness in regions including Latin
America, where adverse currency movements have been a hindrance.  “The continued improvement in  France  and peripheral  Europe 
offers further reassurance that the earnings recovery baked into
the shares should come through,” said John Kershaw, an analyst
at Exane BNP Paribas in  London  who rates Carrefour outperform.  Carrefour  shares  climbed as much as 3.3 percent in Paris
trading and were up 2.9 percent at 27.58 euros as of 9:38 a.m.
The intraday high was the most expensive price for the stock
since May 6, 2011.  Chief Executive Officer Georges Plassat has pledged to give
more control to French store managers and maintain low prices on
food. His strategy for a domestic revival also includes putting
more non-branded goods on shelves and adding so-called drives,
or pick-up points for online orders. Earnings in France jumped
75 percent in the first half of the year.  Italy, Spain  All French store formats showed growth in the third
quarter, Carrefour said today. Excluding gasoline, revenue at
domestic hypermarkets open at least a year rose 3 percent and
supermarket sales gained 2.7 percent, both exceeding analysts’
estimates. Convenience-store sales advanced 5.9 percent.  Sales in the rest of Europe were weighed down by a tough
consumer climate, falling 1.9 percent, excluding gasoline.
Declines in Italy and  Spain  were smaller than analysts had
anticipated.  The retailer is focusing on Europe,  Latin America  and  China 
after  retrenching  from markets where it viewed its prospects as
weak, Plassat said earlier this month. Since he joined last
year, Carrefour has exited countries including Colombia and
Greece and agreed to enter selective African markets with a
partner.  Analyst estimates for full-year recurring operating income
of 2.19 billion euros are “reasonable,” Chief Financial
Officer Pierre-Jean Sivignon said today on a conference call.  Total third-quarter revenue declined 1.3 percent to 21.1
billion euros ($28.7 billion), matching the median of 11
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  