-- Chesapeake Co-Founder Ward Funding New Energy-Production Company
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-10-17T18:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/chesapeake-co-founder-ward-funding-new-energy-production-company.html
Tom Ward , who built  SandRidge Energy
Inc. (SD)  into a $10 billion company before being fired as chief
executive officer in June, has begun a new venture to acquire
oil and natural gas wells.  Ward, 54, said he is dipping into his own capital to fund
closely held Tapstone Energy. He was removed from Oklahoma City-based SandRidge after investors questioned transactions he and
his family members had with the company, days before an activist
shareholder was poised to gain control of the board.  “I am long-term bullish on natural gas in the U.S. so I
would lean toward natural gas,” Ward said today at a Bloomberg
Link Oil & Gas Conference in Houston. Since leaving SandRidge
earlier this year, Ward has been trading energy and agricultural
commodities, he said.  While at SandRidge, Ward avoided following other energy
producers into oil-shale formations, instead favoring older
conventional resources. The company’s market value reached $10
billion in 2008 before dropping to around $3 billion today. Ward
spent $3.6 billion between 2009 and 2012 on older reserves, with
the goal of cutting production costs as crude prices rose. His
buying spree turned SandRidge into the most leveraged
independent producer by early last year.  Ward was dismissed before reaching his goal of doubling oil
production by the end of 2014, tripling earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and reducing its
debt ratio. He started SandRidge in 2006 after leaving
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , which he co-founded with Aubrey McClendon.  Fast Runner  “He’s a company builder,” Jason Wangler, an analyst at
Wunderlich Securities in Houston, said in a phone interview.
“He runs very fast, runs very hard and doesn’t want 100,000
acres, he wants 1 million.”  McClendon, who left Chesapeake in April, said last week he
had raised about $1.7 billion from private-equity firms for his
new company, American Energy Partners LP.  Because the SandRidge termination was without cause, Ward
was eligible to receive a $53.3 million lump sum, vesting of 6.3
million shares of previously issued restricted stock and his
base salary for the next 36 months, the company said at the
time.  The termination of Ward was the latest in a series of
shareholder campaigns that have shaken up the U.S. oil and
natural gas industry over the past year. Chesapeake’s McClendon,
who co-founded the company with Ward in 1989, stepped down after
shareholders criticized personal loans he got using company
wells as collateral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  