-- Chevron Ecuador Lawsuit Financier Tells Judge of Regrets
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-10-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/chevron-ecuador-lawsuit-financier-tells-judge-of-regrets.html
One of the financiers of an
environmental lawsuit that led to a $19 billion verdict against
Chevron Corp. in Ecuador told a judge that he came to regret
funding the case once after learning that it may be a fraud.  Burford Capital LLC Chief Executive Officer Christopher Bogart told a  Manhattan  federal judge yesterday that his firm,
which he described as the world’s largest dedicated litigation
financing provider, supplied $4 million to the Ecuadorean
plaintiffs and later sold the share when it became “deeply
concerned about the mounting evidence of fraud and misconduct.”  Chevron alleges in the non-jury trial before U.S. District
Judge  Lewis Kaplan  that a Manhattan lawyer, Steven Donziger, and
others involved in the pollution case engaged in a
“racketeering enterprise” and won the 2011 verdict through
coercion, manufactured evidence and bribery of the Ecuadorean
judge who wrote it. The company is seeking a ruling preventing
the plaintiffs from trying to enforce the verdict in courts
around the world. Burford reached an agreement with Chevron to
provide testimony after being described in the lawsuit as a
party involved in the scheme, Bogart said yesterday.  Donziger contends he did nothing unlawful in Ecuador and
that Chevron engaged in similar tactics. Kaplan said in a ruling
last week there’s “considerable evidence” the pollution case
was “tainted by fraud.”  In a portion of testimony filed with the judge, Bogart said
“we simply do not countenance in any way the kind of behavior
this court has already found has occurred” and “we never would
have invested” in the case if they were aware of the allegedly
fraudulent activities.  $15 Million  Burford is a U.S. unit of Croydon, U.K.-based  Burford
Capital Ltd. (BUR) , which has more than $300 million in capital,
according to Bogart’s testimony. The firm negotiated with U.S.
law firm Patton Boggs LLP, which also represented plaintiffs in
the Ecuador case, to provide as much as $15 million in
financing, Bogart said. Following an initial investment of $4
million in November 2010, Burford sold its share in 2011 to
another investor and provided no further funding, he said.  By the end of January 2011, “I think we had probably
reached the point in the investment by which we would have been
happier not to have made it,” he said in court yesterday. “But
we had made it.”  In the underlying 20-year-old environmental case, Donziger
and other lawyers for indigenous people in  Ecuador ’s Lago Agrio
region sought damages for Texaco Inc.’s alleged dumping of toxic
drilling wastes from 1964 until about 1992 that polluted about
1,500 square miles (3,885 square kilometers). The lawsuit
continued against Chevron when it acquired Texaco in 2001.  Chevron contends that state-owned Petroecuador, a former
Texaco partner, is responsible for most of the pollution and
that the U.S. company already cleaned up its share of the site
under agreements with Ecuador in the 1990s.  ‘Maximum Damage’  In its February 2011 complaint,  San Ramon , California-based
Chevron contended that advocates for the Ecuadoreans, guided by
Donziger,“sought to inflict maximum damage to Chevron’s
reputation.”  “That’s what Steven Donziger was trying to do against
Chevron -- coerce a big payday against a big company until the
pain went away,” Randy Mastro, a lawyer for the  oil company ,
said in court Oct. 15. Donziger stands to collect as much as
$1.2 billion if the judgment is paid in full, he said.  The company alleged that the team pressured environmental
consultants and helped draft a report that inflated damages to
$27 billion.  A former expert for the plaintiffs, David Russell,
testified yesterday that he provided a $6.114 billion damages
estimate based “largely on assumptions Donziger told me to
use.”  ‘Wildly Inaccurate’  “Within a year of working for Donziger, I came to learn
that my cost estimate was wildly inaccurate and had no
scientific data to back it up,” he said in written testimony
submitted to the judge.  Russell said he asked Donziger not to use the figure after
learning it was cited in the plaintiffs’ publicity campaign and
in a letter to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Donziger ignored the request and continued to use the number,
Russell said.  Donziger alleged in counterclaims that Chevron manipulated
testing at the pollution site, tried to influence Ecuador’s
government and unfairly attacked his reputation. Kaplan
dismissed Donziger’s countersuit in July, saying he didn’t
present strong enough evidence.  The case is  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  v. Donziger, 11-cv-00691, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The
appeals court case is In Re Naranjo, 13-00772,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Manhattan federal court at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  