-- Chile Unexpectedly Cuts Key Rate for First Time in 21 Months
-- B y   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-10-17T21:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/chile-unexpectedly-cuts-key-rate-for-first-time-in-21-months.html
Chile ’s central bank unexpectedly
cut its key  interest rate  by a quarter point for the first time
in 21 months as economic growth slowed and the inflation rate
fell to the bottom of the target range.  Policy makers, led by bank president  Rodrigo Vergara ,
reduced the benchmark rate to 4.75 percent today, as forecast by
two of 19 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . The other 17
analysts expected the bank to keep the rate on hold.  Inflation eased to 2 percent in September, the slowest pace
in  Latin America  after  Ecuador , while economic growth has
weakened for three consecutive quarters. The slowdown led the
central bank to cut its 2013 growth forecast last month to a
range of 4 percent to 4.5 percent from 4 percent to 5 percent.
With Chile’s benchmark rate at least 10 times the level in the
U.S. and at the  European Central Bank , and demand growth set to
slow, traders were expecting a rate cut by year end.  “It is easy to predict that next year we need to
compensate decreased demand with a lower key rate,” said
Gonzalo Sanhueza, one of five members of the Monetary Policy
Group of economists that makes recommendations on the key rate.  Signs of slower growth led policy makers to debate a rate
cut at each of the previous five meetings, according to the
minutes of discussions. Minutes from today’s meeting will be
published Nov. 5.  Traders in the swaps market expected the central bank to
leave its benchmark rate on hold at 5 percent today and cut it
to 4.5 percent by December, according to  Banco de Chile (CHILE) 
research.  ‘Disneyland’  The economy could grow as little as 3.5 percent in 2014 as
the country emerges from the “Disneyland” of high copper
prices and low global borrowing costs, according to former
central bank head Vittorio Corbo.  “In the next few years, Chile will have to work hard in
order to grow and even to maintain an expansion of 4.5
percent,” Corbo said in an interview on Oct. 4. “Everything
points to one or two rate cuts in the next six to 12 months.”  Sanhueza estimates the benchmark rate will have to fall to
4 percent in 2014.  “The economy has slowed, growth between January and August
has been less than 2 percent and all growth indicators in the
margin are under 4 percent,” he said. “Economic growth is
under the potential rate”.  Inflation slowed  to the lower end of the 2 percent to 4
percent central bank target range last month from 2.2 percent in
August. Price increases haven’t risen above the mid-point of the
target range all year.  “Subdued inflation for so long is one of the reasons we
have an easing bias,” central bank director Joaquin Vial said
in an interview on Oct. 11. Still, “subdued inflation is
transitory and should accelerate to the central bank’s 3 percent
target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  