-- BBVA Sells $1.3 Billion China Citic Bank Stake, Boosting Capital
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-17T06:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/china-citic-bank-s-parent-purchases-5-1-stake-from-spain-s-bbva.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s second-biggest bank by market value, sold a stake in
 China Citic Bank Corp. (998)  for 944 million euros ($1.3 billion) as
it prepares to meet international  capital requirements .  BBVA sold a 5.1 percent holding to Citic Group, the Chinese
bank’s parent company, in a transaction it expects to close by
the end of this year, the Spanish lender said in a statement on
its website. The Bilbao, Spain-based bank will keep a 9.9
percent stake, while a charge related to a change in accounting
will cut the lender’s net income by about 2.3 billion euros this
year, according to the statement.  BBVA follows banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Bank of America Corp. in selling stakes in Chinese financial
institutions as new international rules make it expensive to
hold minority stakes in lenders. Foreign institutions have
raised at least $14 billion from divesting shares in Chinese
financial firms since the start of 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Given the difficult environment in its home market, it
appears prudent for BBVA to raise capital at this juncture,”
Sandy Mehta, chief executive officer of Value Investment
Principals Ltd. in  Hong Kong , wrote in an e-mail. “While they
are trimming their holdings, they remain large shareholders.”
Mehta’s company doesn’t own shares in Citic Bank, he said.  Citic Bank jumped as much as 5.3 percent to HK$4.37, the
biggest intraday gain since July 23, and traded 4.3 percent
higher at 2:07 p.m. in Hong Kong. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
was little changed.  “The transaction is effectively a capital injection by the
parent company into  China  Citic Bank,” Jim Antos, an analyst at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., wrote in an e-mail. The sale may be
“only the first step in what could be a full divestment.”  The state-controlled Citic group of companies, established
in 1979 by Rong Yiren to further former leader  Deng Xiaoping ’s
experiment with open markets, has businesses spanning banking,
broking and real estate to oil exploration. The group reports
directly to China’s cabinet.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nathaniel Espino in Beijing at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  