-- China Swaps Snap Five-Day Drop as PBOC Singals Tightening
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-10-17T02:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/china-swaps-snap-five-day-drop-as-pboc-singals-tightening.html
China ’s benchmark  interest-rate
swaps  snapped a five-day decline after the central bank signaled
it may absorb extra funds from the financial system.  China faces “still large” pressure for monetary and
credit expansion as its trade surplus increases and capital
inflows rise, the People’s Bank of China said yesterday in a
statement on its website. The monetary authority won’t conduct
repurchase or reverse-repurchase operations today, according to
a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed payment to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, rose one basis point
to 3.92 percent as of 10:16 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rate has fallen 10 basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, over the past five days.  “The PBOC is likely to restart its repo operation to keep
liquidity at a neutral level,” said Chen Qi, a Shanghai-based
strategist at UBS Securities Co. “Liquidity is quite loose at
the moment. The PBOC didn’t do reverse repos today, and that is
the most likely first step after yesterday’s statement.”  The central bank hasn’t sold repo contracts since June,
when money-market rates surged to record highs. It started to
rollover maturing three-year bonds in July to maintain funds in
the financial system and last  reissued  5.5 billion  yuan  ($902
million) of the notes on Oct. 14 at 3.5 percent.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, increased one basis point to
3.35 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It touched 3.3 percent
yesterday, the lowest level since July 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  