-- China Railways Trailing 1880 U.S. Show Spending Scope: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-17T03:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/china-railways-trailing-1880-u-s-show-spending-scope-economy.html
After $5 trillion in spending on
infrastructure over the past five years,  China  still needs more.  The nation struggles to provide drinkable tap water,
millions of people live in shantytowns and the length of the
 rail network  is yet to match that of the U.S. in 1880.  While investors focus on ghost cities and unneeded
factories as evidence of overinvestment, gaps in infrastructure
will allow the spigot of  state spending  to be open for years to
come, according to HSBC Holdings Plc. That may serve as a safety
net, limiting the scale of any slowdown during the economic
restructuring that Communist Party leaders are set to map out at
a meeting in Beijing next month.  “China still has plenty of room to keep building useful
bridges before building bridges to nowhere,” said  Qu Hongbin ,
Hong Kong-based chief China economist at HSBC. “Even after five
or six years of massive infrastructure development, China’s
infrastructure is only at a level similar to that of Japan in
the 1960s or 1970s.”  Installed in March, President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang have already used infrastructure spending to support
growth in what Bank of America Corp. described as a “mini
fiscal stimulus” this year. After expansion cooled during the
first and second quarters, the State Council rolled out measures
targeting city infrastructure such as drainage systems, waste-water treatment, subways and light rail, roads and bridges,
power grids, railway construction and shantytown redevelopment.  Growth Report  The effects may be visible in tomorrow’s report on third-quarter expansion from the National Bureau of Statistics, which
will say that the economy grew 7.8 percent from a year earlier,
based on the  median estimate  of 46 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Any reading below the government’s 7.5 percent annual
target would stoke anticipation of fresh stimulus measures. Li
said last week that  growth  exceeded 7.5 percent in the first
nine months of the year, following a report of 7.6 percent
expansion in the first half.  Data tomorrow will also show that authorities maintained
the pace of fixed-asset investment excluding rural areas at 20.3
percent for the first nine months of the year, equal to the
January-August pace, according to the median economist estimate.
The statistics bureau also reports September figures for
 industrial production  and retail sales.  Investment in national railways and joint-venture railways
rose 12.2 percent to 327 billion  yuan  in the first nine months
of 2013 from a year earlier, according to a report in today’s
Economic Information Daily, a newspaper of the official Xinhua
News Agency.  FDI Report  Separately, China’s inbound, non-financial foreign direct
investment rose 4.9 percent in September from a year earlier,
following a 0.6 percent gain in August, Commerce Ministry data
showed today. In  Singapore , non-oil exports in September fell
1.2 percent from a year earlier as manufacturers shipped fewer
electronics and pharmaceuticals, a report showed.  Elsewhere in the world,  retail-sales  figures are due in the
U.K.,  Sweden  and the Netherlands report on September
unemployment and the U.S. will see weekly reports on jobless
claims and the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  China’s fixed-asset investment in infrastructure totaled
33.1 trillion yuan in the five years through August, based on
data compiled by Bank of America. The figures include spending
on transportation, such as roads and railways, as well as
utilities and water facilities.  Subway Absence  The gaps in infrastructure range from the absence of a
subway system in Lanzhou, a city of about 3.6 million and the
capital of northwestern Gansu province, to passengers crushed
together during peak hours on Beijing underground lines.  The average Internet speed of 1.7 megabits per second
ranked 98th worldwide and compared with 14.2 megabits in No. 1-rated South Korea in the first quarter of this year, according
to  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) , which provides services to speed
delivery of Web content.  “I hate the traffic jams,” Li Xuejun, a taxi driver, said
last month in Jinan, the capital of Shandong province, as cars,
buses, trucks and motor-tricycles jostled for space. Li said he
was looking forward to the completion of the West Second Ring
highway bridge, an 8-kilometer (5-mile) highway completed this
month with a price tag of 2 billion yuan.  China is putting about 5,500 kilometers of railway lines
into operation this year, bringing the total length to 100,000
kilometers, Xinhua reported in August. The government said in
July that it plans to grant ownership and operating rights on
some city and regional railways to local government and private
investors.  Sun’s Goal  In the early 20th century, Sun Yat-sen, Republican China’s
first president after the fall of the Qing Dynasty, set a goal
of 160,000 kilometers. In the U.S., the rail network reached
about 148,000 kilometers by 1880 and peaked at 409,000 in 1916,
shrinking to 224,000 kilometers in 2011, according to the
Association of American Railroads.  In Beijing, a city known for architectural signature pieces
such as the  Bird’s Nest stadium  built for the 2008 Olympics,
people died in flooding last year because the city’s drainage
system was inadequate to handle the biggest rainstorm in six
decades. The downpour killed 77 and submerged vehicles and
flooded homes, resulting in about 11.6 billion yuan in losses,
according to Xinhua.  Drinking Water  China has pledged to ensure the supply of safe drinking
water by 2015 to more than 100 million people in rural areas who
don’t have access to it now, Xinhua reported in August.  At Credit Suisse Group AG, economist Dong Tao says that the
new Communist Party leadership regards infrastructure spending
as a “stabilizer” rather than the “accelerator” used in the
global financial crisis, when a 4 trillion yuan stimulus package
helped reverse the nation’s slump.  Over coming quarters, officials will jab the pedal as
needed to keep growth around the 7.5 percent to 8 percent level,
according to Tao, chief regional economist for Asia excluding
 Japan .  Potential obstacles to infrastructure spending include
government debt that analysts at banks including JPMorgan Chase
& Co. say is approaching levels that helped trigger turmoil in
other economies.  The National Audit Office is working on the broadest review
of government borrowing in two years, with former Finance
Minister Xiang Huaicheng saying in April that local-government
finance vehicles may hold more than 20 trillion yuan of debt,
almost double the official tally from 2010.  Bridge Collapse  Some of the nation’s design and construction failures have
been deadly. In August 2012, a new $300 million, eight-lane
suspension bridge collapsed in the northeastern city of Harbin,
sending four trucks tumbling and leaving three dead. The high-speed rail system suffered a blow from a collision in July 2011
that killed 40 people. Former Railway Minister Liu Zhijun was
given a suspended death sentence this year for abuse of power
and taking bribes.  China also has overinvestment in some areas. The government
on Oct. 15 posted a plan by the State Council to cut excess
capacity in steel, cement and aluminum.  Some municipalities have turned into ghost cities after
local governments failed to attract residents to fill new towers.
A prime example is Ordos, Inner Mongolia, where cranes stood
silently above half-finished developments in July after a
building spree that included an expanded airport, a sports
stadium and high-rise apartments surrounding an artificial lake.  Japanese Debt  Underscoring potential risks, Japan’s administrations ran
up the nation’s debt in the 1990s with repeated supplementary
budgets that failed to stop the economy from sinking into
deflation.  “China is quite different from the 1990s in Japan,” said
Changyong Rhee, chief economist at the Asian Development Bank.
Especially in the nation’s western regions, “huge potential”
remains for investment to increase productivity and incomes and
reduce inequality, Rhee said.  At the same time, Rhee said he’s concerned that China’s
spending is led by local governments through an expansion of
credit, with the risk that investment decisions are made for
political reasons and project quality suffers. He said that the
central government is trying to tackle that issue.  --Paul Panckhurst, Shen Hu, with assistance from Zhou Xin and
Nerys Avery in Beijing, Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong, Tim Catts in
New York, Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  and Ailing Tan and Rina Chandran.
Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Scott Lanman  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  