-- China’s Stocks Fall to October Low as Free-Trade Rally Fades
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-17T07:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-as-u-s-senate-passes-accord.html
China’s stocks  fell to the lowest
level this month as companies linked to  Shanghai ’s free-trade
zone extended losses on concern valuations were excessive,
overshadowing gains by coal producers.  Shanghai Oriental Pearl (Group) Co. (600832)  and Shanghai Lujiazui
Finance & Trade Zone Development Co. tumbled more than 6 percent
after jumping at least 88 percent over the past two months.
 China Shenhua Energy Co. (601088)  and  China  Coal Energy Co., the biggest
coal producers, rose more than 1 percent on higher fuel prices.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.2 percent to 2,188.54
at the close, the lowest since Sept. 30. The index climbed as
much as 0.8 percent earlier after the  U.S. Congress  voted to end
a government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling. The statistics
bureau is due to release data on the nation’s economic growth
and industrial output tomorrow.  “The thematic investment has come to an end for the moment
and related stocks were going up too crazily,” said Wu Kan, a
Shanghai-based  money manager  at Dragon Life Insurance Co., which
oversees $3.3 billion. “Investors are cautious before
tomorrow’s economic data in case some figures trail estimates.”  The Shanghai Composite has rebounded 12 percent from its
four-year low on June 27, boosted by speculation the free-trade
zone will attract foreign companies and allow for financial
liberalization. The index trades at 8.7 times projected earnings
for the next 12 months, compared with the seven-year average of
15.4, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Shanghai Lujiazui plunged 6.2 percent to 21.38 yuan. The
shares have plunged 18 percent over the past three days.
Shanghai Oriental Pearl, operator of China’s tallest television
tower, slumped 10 percent to 11.06  yuan .  Shanghai AJ Corp. (600643) , an
investment holding company, lost 6.1 percent to 11.73 yuan.  Fading Rally  Shanghai, the nation’s commercial hub, last month
inaugurated an 11-square-mile trade zone as a testing ground for
free-market policies. Companies with the word “Shanghai” in
their name have paced the benchmark stock index’s rebound from a
four-year low in June.  The rally for Shanghai companies that are linked to trade
zone will continue to fade without more details on the area, Xu
Shengjun, analyst at Jianghai Securities, said in an interview
from Shanghai.  China is scheduled to report tomorrow the economy expanded
7.8 percent in the third quarter, according to the median
forecast of 46 economists compiled by Bloomberg. The pace of
growth slowed in the previous two quarters.  The statistics bureau will also probably say industrial
output grew 10.2 percent in September from a year earlier,
according to economists’ median estimate compiled by Bloomberg.
That would compare with 10.4 percent growth in August.  Coal Producers  A government report today showed foreign-direct investment
rose 4.9 percent last month from year-earlier levels, compared
with a 0.6 percent increase in August.  A measure of energy stocks in the CSI 300 advanced 0.9
percent today, the only gainer among the 10 sub-indexes. Shenhua
rose 1.7 percent to 16.74 yuan after saying coal sales increased
40 percent in September. China Coal climbed 2.1 percent to 5.44
yuan.  Datong Coal Industry Co. (601001)  jumped 2.3 percent to 6.60 yuan.  The Bohai-Rim steam coal price index, which tracks power-station coal prices at six Chinese ports, rose 0.2 percent in
the week from Oct. 9 to yesterday, according to Qinhuangdao
Seaborne Coal Market’s website. The measure earlier fell for a
16th week since Jun. 19.  China’s bond and stock investors are diverging in their
outlook for the economy as yields point to subdued growth while
equities are set for the longest winning streak in three years.  Yield Curve  The government’s 10-year notes yielded  39 basis points more 
than two-year debt on Oct. 15, Chinabond data show. That
compares with averages of 94 basis points for the past five
years and 40 basis points in the month after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008. The Shanghai
Composite climbed 10 percent last quarter, its best performance
since 2010.  “The yield curve suggests the economy is in the worst
shape since the global financial crisis,” Heather Hsu,
Shanghai-based equity strategist at Fortune CLSA Securities
Ltd., said in an Oct. 14 interview. “The equity market will
likely go down to reflect what’s going on in the economy.”  China’s stocks will extend gains before a Communist Party
meeting in November on expectations of more policy reforms,
according to Zhang Yanbing, analyst at Zheshang Securities.
Premier  Li Keqiang  and President Xi Jinping are expected to seek
support for national plans to reduce the government’s hand in
the economy and financial system at the meeting.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  