-- China’s Dagong Cuts U.S. Credit Rating After Debt Limit Raised
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-17T17:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/china-s-dagong-cuts-u-s-credit-rating-after-debt-limit-raised.html
China’s Dagong Global Credit Rating
Co. cut its sovereign rating for the U.S. hours after President
 Barack Obama  signed legislation raising the federal debt limit.  Dagong, one of China’s four biggest credit rating
companies, downgraded the local and foreign currency credit
ratings of the U.S. to A- from A, maintaining a negative
outlook, the company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
That’s below  Dagong’s rating  of Botswana, which has a A rating,
and puts the U.S. on par with  Brazil .  “Leaders of nations and institutions have all expressed
concern for the situation,” Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a briefing in Beijing yesterday.
“The U.S. is the world’s biggest economy, and whether it can
resolve the problems matters to its own interest and also the
stability and growth of the whole global economy.”  China  is the largest foreign holder of U.S. Treasuries and
 increased its holdings  to $1.28 trillion as of July, according
to U.S. government figures. Privately owned Dagong rates China’s
foreign currency debt AAA.  Dagong’s move came hours after the U.S. Congress voted to
fund the government and lift the debt limit, ending a shutdown
that began Oct. 1 and took $24 billion out of the economy. Obama
signed the bill just after midnight.  Pale Prospect  “A debt crisis evolves into a political crisis, which in
turn exacerbates the debt crisis,” Dagong said in the e-mail.
“Such political environment over debt repayment renders the dim
and pale prospect of the U.S. federal government’s solvency.”  Fitch Ratings put the U.S. AAA credit grade on ratings
watch negative on Oct. 16, citing the government’s inability to
raise the debt ceiling in a timely manner.  “The hard truth for China is that there’s no alternative
for U.S. Treasuries as an investment product,” Li Jie, head of
the foreign-exchange reserve research office at the Central
University of Finance and Economics in Beijing, said earlier
this week. “Whatever happens, undertaking a massive sell-off of
U.S. bonds is not an option” for China, Li said before the debt
limit was raised.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  