-- Christie Zaps Bill to Ban Low-Watt Laser Pointers in N.J.
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/christie-zaps-bill-to-ban-low-watt-laser-pointers-in-n-j-.html
Governor  Chris Christie  vetoed a
bill to bar sales of low-power lasers in New Jersey because it
would strip businesspeople of a modern alternative to the wooden
pointer.  “Presumably, the purpose of this bill is to deter the
dangerous misuse of laser pointers,” Christie said yesterday in
a statement accompanying his action. Current state and federal
laws already punish such misconduct by making it a criminal act
to aim such a device at any vehicle, including an airplane, with
penalties of as much as 10 years in prison.  The legislation, S-418, would have prohibited the sale of
pointers with more than 1 milliwatt in output power. Current
federal regulations allow retail sales of the devices with as
much as 5 milliwatts of power.  The  New Jersey  bill “goes well beyond the federal
standards,” said Christie, a Republican. He said laser pointers
that would be affected are “currently for sale at office supply
stores as well as by the largest online retailers” and that the
measure would thus interfere with lawful commerce in the state.  “This legislation would ban the sale of one of the most
common classes of consumer laser pointers, which are not
typically used by criminals, but by business professionals to
deliver presentations,” Christie said. He said the power level
stipulated by the bill was “arbitrary.”  State law calls for a sentence of as long as 10 years for
anyone convicted of aiming a laser pointer at a vehicle in such
a way as to cause serious injuries. Christie said lawmakers
offered no instances in which a criminal used such low-power
lasers. The governor didn’t suggest ways to change the bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 