-- World Economy May ‘Turn a Corner’ in 2014, Shenfeld Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-10-17T15:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/cibc-economist-says-world-economy-may-turn-a-corner-in-2014.html
The global economy may “turn a
corner” next year with improvements in the U.S. and  Europe ,
according to  Avery Shenfeld , CIBC World Markets chief economist.  World growth may accelerate to more than 4 percent in 2014,
as euro zone countries and the U.S. benefit from reduced
“drag” of fiscal policies aimed at reducing debt, Shenfeld
told investors at the Bloomberg Focus Day Symposium in Toronto.
U.S. growth will quicken to 3.2 percent from 1.5 percent this
year and Canada to 2.3 percent from 1.7 percent, he said.  “The  U.S. economy  can indeed turn a corner more
dramatically in 2014,” he said, citing the agreement to end the
government shutdown and avoid default and a decline in the
 unemployment rate . “We have really been waiting a long time to
go from mediocre to really good economic times,” he said.  Shenfeld’s forecast contrasts with the  International
Monetary Fund , which cut its global growth estimate to 3.6
percent next year from 3.8 percent on Oct. 8 because of weakness
in  emerging markets . Stocks in that region plunged after the
U.S. Federal Reserve signaled in May it may trim extraordinary
asset purchases, and Shenfeld said the Fed will not raise
interest rates until early 2015.  The Fed “doesn’t want to raise interest rates in a
hurry,” Shenfeld said. “We know they were uncomfortable with
how fast bond yields were rising” after policy makers spoke
about tapering asset purchases, he said.  Janet Yellen , who has been nominated to replace  Ben S.
Bernanke  as Fed Chairman, will be a “clone” of her
predecessor, said Shenfeld, who predicts 10-year Treasury bond
 yields  may rise to just above 3 percent next year.  Improving Europe  In Europe, most countries will be able to make “less
dramatic” moves to curb debts next year, Shenfeld said. In
 China , signs of rising imports suggest healthy domestic demand
that may in turn benefit Canada, he said.  “We aren’t looking for Canada to outperform,” Shenfeld
said. “We have pretty much used up some of what the U.S. has
just started to get in some sectors like housing.”  Bank of  Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz has said that record
consumer debt burdens through a housing boom are the biggest
risk to the domestic economy, and he has also said that
“patience” is needed before business investment and exports
pick up the slack.  Canada doesn’t have a housing debt “crisis” Shenfeld
said. Poloz will probably wait until early 2015 to raise the 1
percent policy rate, he said. The average forecast of economists
surveyed this month by Bloomberg is for the first increase to
take place in the fourth quarter of 2014.  “When it comes time to tap on the brakes,” he said, ‘it’s
not going to take as much’’ to slow the economy.  Slower Investment  Business investment “has slowed dramatically” in Canada,
Shenfeld said. The country’s oil producers are scaling back
spending because of lower prices and questions over delays in
approving new pipelines.  “It’s not exciting times for launching new mega-projects
in Canada’s oil patch,” he said.  Canada can still expect to benefit from stronger global
growth and the conditions to end the central bank’s longest rate
pause since the 1950s “may finally fall into place” next year,
he said. Stronger global growth and a modest rise in  interest
rates  suggest the best returns in Canada’s  stock market  will be
for companies in the base metals, air transport and insurance
industries, he said.  “Better times are coming -- stronger growth finally in the
U.S. and global economies and an ok year for Canada on the back
of better global growth,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  