-- Climate Change to Cost East Asia 5.3% of GDP, ADB Study Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-17T05:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/climate-change-to-cost-east-asia-5-3-of-gdp-adb-study-says.html
Climate change  will lead to more
flooding and drought in East Asia and could chop 5.3 percent off
annual gross domestic product by the year 2100 if measures
aren’t adopted to tackle it, according to the  Asian Development
Bank .  Rising temperatures in  China ,  Japan , Mongolia and South
Korea will spur more flooding and tropical storms in coastal
areas and make northern agricultural regions more prone to
drought, the ADB said today in its “Economics of Climate Change
in East Asia” report.  The study underscores the risks of inaction on climate
change faced by a region that was responsible for 30 percent of
the world’s carbon emissions in 2010. China’s model of economic
growth at all costs has made it the world’s biggest carbon
emitter and has blanketed cities in smog that can surpass World
Health Organization recommendations by almost 40 times.  “East Asia needs to shift toward a model of economic
growth focused on low  carbon emissions  and more efficient use of
resources,” the ADB said in the report. In China, “measures to
reduce emissions of  greenhouse gases  should lead to significant
improvements in local  air quality , thus reducing the damage to
the health of urban populations,” it said.  Current projections suggest that regional mean temperatures
in 2090 will be 3.8 to 5.2 degrees Celsius higher than the
1961-1990 average, according to the report. The region is
already vulnerable to once-every-hundred-years floods that could
affect 12 million people in 23 cities, threatening $864 billion
in assets, the report said.  Adaptation Costs  The ADB said that under a mid-range scenario, adapting
infrastructure to climate change would cost the region $22.9
billion a year in 2005 dollars. Coastal protection would cost
$4.2 billion a year and adapting agriculture would require $9.5
billion a year.  The costs of mitigating climate change are much lower than
the damage that would be caused by doing nothing, Gordon Hughes,
a professor at the  University of Edinburgh  and one of the
authors of the report, said at a briefing today in Beijing.
Roads are one of the most expensive sectors for adaptation as
they are particularly susceptible to higher temperatures, he
said.  “The question is, do we spend money today to reduce the
damage done by climate change in 40 years time, or do we wait a
bit and adapt in a slightly different way but in 20 or 30
years,” Hughes said. “That’s a very difficult trade off, but
it’s a very important trade off that needs to be made.”  For China, adjustments to transport infrastructure could
have “very large benefits” in reducing air pollution and
improving people’s health, he said.  China’s Glaciers  Climate-related natural disasters since 1970 have already
cost $259 billion to China, $64 billion to Japan, $15 billion to
South Korea and $2 billion to Mongolia. That amounts to less
than 0.2 percent of GDP over the period, the ADB said in its
report.  China’s glaciers are “retreating markedly” due to global
warming and the country has seen an increase in floods and
droughts, Chen Wenying, a professor at  Tsinghua University , said
today at the briefing.  The Asian Development Bank said its study area didn’t
include  Hong Kong  or Macau. Maps in the report also didn’t show
data for  Taiwan , the self-governed island that China considers
part of its territory.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  