-- Comedian Louis CK Sues Union Over Pension Contribution
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-10-17T17:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/comedian-louis-ck-sues-union-over-pension-contribution.html
The comedian Louis CK’s production
company sued to block a claim for $28,000 in health and benefit
contributions tied to his work as editor of his FX Networks LLC
series “ Louie .”  Louis CK, whose real name is Louis Szekely, is the creator
and star of the series, which is in production for a fourth
season for FX, a unit of  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA)   Szekely’s production company, Pig Newton Inc., sued the
directors of three union benefit plans in Manhattan federal
court yesterday, seeking a court declaration that it doesn’t owe
the money. Pig Newton claimed the contribution was calculated
using an “invalid rule” that ignores the hours Szekely
actually spent working on the show.  Pig Newton is owned by Szekely and employs him and the
show’s cast and crew under collective bargaining agreements with
the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, Moving
Picture Technicians, Artists, and Allied Crafts, the production
company said in its complaint.  Pig Newton claims an audit showed that it properly reported
all hours worked by the show’s employees, including those
actually worked by Szekely. The plans claim the additional
contributions based on Szekely’s status as an employee-owner of
the company, requiring payments based on full-time, yearlong
work, rather than the amount of hours actually worked, Pig
Newton said.  Katherine Orloff, a spokeswoman for the union, didn’t
immediately reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment on the
suit.  The case is Pig Newton Inc. v. Boards of Directors of the
Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan, the Motion Picture
Industry Individual Account Plan, and the Motion Picture
Industry Health Plan, 13-cv-07312, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 