-- Construction LBO Bargain Seen at Owens Corning: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-10-17T14:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/construction-lbo-bargain-seen-at-owens-corning-real-m-a.html
Owens Corning (OC) , the largest U.S.
producer of insulation, may prove to be a bargain for private-equity firms betting on an improvement in the construction
market.  The $4.55 billion maker of roof shingles trades at a lower
multiple of revenue than all but one similar-sized North
American building materials company, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Buyout firms may consider Owens Corning
undervalued and be drawn to a takeover before a U.S. real-estate
recovery spurs a jump in free cash flow, CL King & Associates
said.  With U.S. construction spending at the highest in four
years, analysts  project  Owens Corning will generate positive
free cash flow this year for the first time since 2010 and bring
in $476 million by 2015. That represents a potential windfall
for private-equity suitors, who could tie the company more
strongly to the construction market by spinning off the  unit 
that makes glass fiber for golf clubs and cars, BB&T Corp. said.
Owens Corning could fetch $48 a share in a leveraged buyout for
a premium of 25 percent, Royal Bank of Canada said.  “If housing starts to accelerate, Owens Corning will make
a lot more money,” Bob Wetenhall, a New York-based analyst at
RBC, said in a phone interview. “It should generate lots of
free  cash flow , which could be used to pay down debt in an LBO.
This could work really well for someone.”  Matt Schroder, a spokesman for Owens Corning, said the
Toledo, Ohio-based company doesn’t comment on speculation when
asked about the possibility of a sale or breakup.  Pink Panther  Owens Corning, which  features  the  Pink Panther  cartoon
character to market its insulation products, emerged from
bankruptcy in 2006. It has two primary  businesses : a building
materials unit that makes insulation and roof shingles, and a
composites division that makes glass fiber used to manufacture
those construction products as well as  airplane parts  and
kayaks.  The  shares  had climbed 3.5 percent this year through
yesterday, about a fourth of the gain for the Russell 1000
Materials & Processing Index, after the company  missed  analysts’
earnings estimates in two of the last three quarters.  “They’re a company with volatile businesses that have lots
of ups and downs,” Keith Hughes, an Atlanta-based analyst at
 SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , said in a phone interview. “They’re prone
to international trends in composites and they’re prone to the
weather -- wind and hail and other storm damage in roofing.”  Cheaper Valuation  The decline left Owens Corning trading yesterday at 0.88
times its $5.1 billion in  revenue  in the last 12 months. That’s
the cheapest price-sales ratio after USG Corp. among North
American construction materials makers valued at more than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Today, Owens Corning shares rose 0.3 percent to $38.39 at
10:06 a.m. New York time.  The company’s low valuation could attract private-equity
suitors willing to wager on an improvement in the construction
market that would lead to a surge in free cash flow, said Jim Barrett, a New York-based analyst and director of research at CL
King.  U.S. construction spending  rose in July to a $900.8 billion
annual rate, the  highest  level since June 2009, according to the
Commerce Department. A report on August construction spending
that was scheduled for Oct. 1 wasn’t released because of the
partial government shutdown.  Improving conditions will help Owens Corning generate $173
million in free cash flow in 2013, according to analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. By 2015, the company is
expected to bring in about $476 million, the most since its
bankruptcy exit.  Housing Recovery  A private-equity buyer would have “a real opportunity here
to ride the recovery and generate quite a bit of cash,” Jack Kasprzak, a Richmond-based analyst at BB&T, said in a phone
interview. “We don’t think we’ve seen the best of the U.S.
housing recovery yet and the benefit of that on their
businesses.”  While Owens Corning  management  likely prefers to keep the
company together, a buyer may split the composites unit from the
roofing and insulation business to try to unlock value, Kasprzak
said. Doing so would focus the company more on the U.S.
construction market.  A breakup may be difficult because the businesses are
integrated, with the roofing division accounting for about 10
percent of  revenue  for the composites unit, Wetenhall of RBC
said. Without a split, there’s still value in a takeover, he
said.  Takeover Premium  A private-equity firm could pay $48 a share for Owens
Corning, 6.8 percent more than the company’s post-bankruptcy
 high , and generate an internal rate of return of 20 percent over
five years, Wetenhall estimated in an Oct. 8 report. The shares
closed yesterday at $38.29.  “You have enough money coming in that you could afford to
 borrow money  along with your own equity to buy the company at a
large premium and still have confidence that you can make your
payments to lenders,” he said.  Hughes of SunTrust said Owens Corning’s valuation is too
rich to support an additional premium in an LBO given the
volatility in the company’s businesses. The  shares  are up more
than 50 percent in the last two years, and the company had $2.3
billion in  debt  and $72 million of cash as of June 30.  “The math around that is very difficult at current
prices,” Hughes said. “You would have to assume that all three
of these businesses get to peak results at the same time. I
don’t think you can build an investment case on that, public or
private.”  Even so, the promise of a boom in free cash flow could be
enough to lure private-equity suitors, Kasprzak of BB&T said.  “If housing were to continue to improve, obviously those
businesses should improve and generate quite a bit of cash,” he
said. “Opportunistically, that setup is probably fairly
attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  