-- Soybeans, Corn Gain on Speculation China Is Buying U.S. Supplies
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-17T19:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/corn-swings-on-u-s-harvest-outlook-as-rain-aids-south-america.html
Soybeans rose the most in five weeks
and corn climbed on speculation that  China  has boosted purchases
from the U.S., the world’s largest exporter. Wheat also gained.  China has bought about 20 cargoes of U.S. corn in October,
Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. wrote on its  website  today. U.S.
supplies delivered to China are $2.40 a bushel cheaper than
domestic prices, according to the  Linn Group . U.S. soybean
export prices are about $1.25 a bushel cheaper than supplies
from  Brazil , boosting demand, the researcher said. A 16-day U.S.
government shutdown that ended yesterday with a new budget
agreement has limited data on crop prices and export sales.  Prices “are rising on speculation that China bought more
than 3 million tons of soybeans and up to 2.5 million tons of
U.S. corn the past three weeks,”  Roy Huckabay , an executive
vice president at Chicago-based Linn Group, said in a telephone
interview. “The trade is expecting those sales to be announced
shortly, now that the government is back to work.”  Soybean futures for delivery in November jumped 1.3 percent
to close at $12.9325 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board
of Trade, the biggest gain since Sept. 12.  Corn futures for delivery in December rose 0.1 percent to
$4.43 a bushel in Chicago, heading for the first weekly increase
in three weeks.  In the 12 months that started Oct. 1, China’s  soybean 
imports may jump 16 percent to a record 69 million metric tons
from a year earlier, and corn shipments might more than double
to 7 million tons, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said Sept.
12.  Reports Canceled  The government shutdown, which began Oct. 1, deprived
investors of daily and weekly USDA export sales. The monthly
reports on U.S. and world supply and demand for major crops
including soybean, corn and wheat originally scheduled for Oct.
14 were canceled today, the agency said. The next update will be
on Nov. 8.  Wheat rose on concern that cold weather may harm crops in
 Argentina  and excessive rain might delay harvesting in Brazil,
boosting demand for supplies from the U.S., the world’s biggest
shipper.  Wheat futures for delivery in December added 0.7 percent to
$6.86 a bushel on the CBOT, snapping a two-day decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  