-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Decline to Five-Month Low After Fiscal Deal
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-10-17T16:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/credit-swaps-in-u-s-decline-to-five-month-low-after-fiscal-deal.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
fell to the lowest in more than five months a day after Congress
voted to raise the U.S. debt limit and re-open the government to
end a 16-day partial shutdown.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
0.7 basis point to 72.8 basis points at 12:39 p.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure is
trading at the lowest level since May 8 in data that adjust for
the effects of the market’s shift to a new version of the index
last month.  Investors are “reassessing” the value of credit markets
after the index dropped 3.5 basis points yesterday as lawmakers
reached an agreement to push the debt-ceiling dispute to
February and fund the government at Republican-backed spending
levels through Jan. 15, according to Kashif Ishaq, head of
investment-grade corporate bond trading at Delaware Investments.
President  Barack Obama  signed the bill just after midnight after
its passage by Congress.  “People are going back to the drawing board and watching
how the market reacts today,” Ishaq said in a telephone
interview. Trading “volumes are relatively light,” he said.  Dominion Offering  The swaps index typically falls as investor confidence
improves and climbs as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  A unit of Dominion Resources Inc. is planning to sell $1.2
billion of debt in a three-part offering that includes $400
million of 30-year bonds as soon as today, according to a person
with knowledge of the offering. Dominion Gas Holdings LLC may
issue the 30-year debt to yield 112 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because terms aren’t set.  Dominion created the subsidiary to hold its regulated
natural gas companies, and proceeds will be used to repay
intercompany borrowings from the parent,  Standard & Poor’s  said
in a statement yesterday assigning an A- rating to the
securities.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, fell 3.8 basis points to 351.1 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries narrowed 1.3 basis points to 127.6
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 4.8 to 660.5.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  