-- Croatia Will Favour Partner Over Price in Airline Sale
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-10-17T12:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/croatia-will-favour-partner-over-price-in-airline-sale.html
Croatia  will begin the sale of a
minority stake in national flag-carrier  Croatia Airlines d.d.  in
a process that favors bringing in a strategic partner over
price, Transport Minister Sinisa Hajdas Doncic said.  Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic ’s  cabinet  agreed today to
start seeking a buyer for 49 percent in the money-losing
carrier, part of a plan to shore up Croatia’s public finances by
selling state companies. It will keep a 50.25 percent stake, it
said in materials distributed to reporters, and Hajdas Doncic
said he expected the sale to be concluded by mid-2014.  A fair offer would include creating a regional hub, fresh
capital and new planes to refurbish Croatia Airlines, whose
routes are limited to European cities with code-sharing
agreements to four U.S. destinations, Hajdas Doncic said. As
many as four international companies have expressed interest,
including PT Garuda Indonesia Ltd., he said.  “We are willing to look into all the possible models,”
Hajdas Doncic told reporters after the cabinet meeting, without
giving a timetable for the start of the sale. “The priority is
that the money will not go into the budget but be invested into
the company.”  A state agency will determine the value of the company in
the next four months, he said, declining to elaborate on the
price. In August he said the company had been valued at 350
million kuna ($64 million). The Zagreb-based company, founded in
1990 as the former Yugoslavia was breaking apart, posted a net
 loss  of 475 million kuna ($85 million) in 2012.  ‘Plan B’  Should no offers materialize, “Plan B” would include
selling the company piecemeal, Doncic said. In its present
state, Croatia Airlines can’t function past 2015, he said.  Croatia, the second former Yugoslav republic to join the
European Union, is selling off stakes in state companies to help
stop deterioration in its  budget deficit . The government expects
this year’s fiscal shortfall to end at 3.5 percent of gross
domestic product and to widen to 5.5 percent in 2014.  While Air France-KLM Group, Deutsche Lufthansa AG and
British Airways parent IAG are shying away from takeovers to
focus on stemming losses at short-haul units, carriers from
outside the EU have shown increased interest in acquisitions.  Eastern European airlines have attracted suitors including
Etihad Airways PJSC, which bought a stake in  Serbia ’s largest
carrier, and Korean Air Lines Co., which acquired a 44 percent
stake in Ceske Aerolinie AS, the Czech flag carrier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  