-- Crown’s Sri Lanka Casino Resort Venture to Cost $400 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-10-17T23:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/crown-s-sri-lanka-casino-resort-venture-to-cost-400-million.html
Crown Ltd. (CWN) , Australia’s largest
gambling company, said a casino resort it’s in talks over co-developing in  Sri Lanka  will cost about $400 million.  The five-star resort will have about 450 hotel rooms and
suites at Beira Lake in the center of the capital Colombo, the
Melbourne-based company said in a regulatory statement today.
Crown, controlled by billionaire Chairman  James Packer , also
said it’s seeking joint venture partners for the project.  Sri Lanka, for decades a destination for backpackers,
religious pilgrims and beach-lovers, is building high-end hotels
and casinos to woo wealthier tourists from India and China as it
seeks to emulate the success of Singapore and Macau. The resort
will join a growing lineup of luxury Colombo hotels, including a
$400 million beachfront Shangri-La, the Taj group’s upgraded
five-star Samudra Colombo, and a John Keells Holdings Plc.
gaming resort.  “It is Sri Lanka’s time to shine in  Asia ,” Packer said in
the statement. The resort would “play a significant role in
helping to drive increased international in-bound tourism,
especially from India and China.”  Packer is also seeking to develop a hotel for high-rollers
in Australia’s largest city Sydney, as well as projects in Macau
and the Philippines via Crown’s 34 percent stake in  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)   Crown also has a chance to build a resort in the Australian
city of  Brisbane  after Queensland state’s government Oct. 14
said it would accept applications to redevelop a riverfront site
in the state capital.  Crown is “very interested in pursuing an integrated resort
in Brisbane,” Packer said in an e-mail last week, “but of
course that depends on the Queensland government’s future
regulatory framework and is still under consideration”.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  