-- Crude Drops as API Reports Increase in U.S. Inventories
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-10-17T18:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/crude-drops-as-api-reports-increase-in-u-s-inventories.html
West Texas Intermediate dropped to a
three-month low after an industry group reported an increase in
inventories last week and as more Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits .  Prices slid 1.6 percent. Supplies climbed by 5.94 million
barrels, according to the  American Petroleum Institute 
yesterday. Jobless claims reached 358,000 last week, the Labor
Department said. WTI rose 1.1 percent yesterday before Congress
voted to end the government shutdown and raise the debt limit.  “The API numbers are bearish and suggest that we are
heading into a period in the fall of fairly weak demand,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “We are turning into a weak
market for the next few weeks at least. People had kind of
priced in the passage of a bill in  Washington .”  WTI for November delivery fell $1.62 to $100.67 a barrel on
the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement since
July 2. The volume of all futures was 48 percent above the 100-day average at 2:54 p.m.  North Sea Brent for December settlement slid $1.48, or 1.3
percent, to $109.11 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The November contract expired yesterday. Volume
was 9.5 percent below the 100-day average. December Brent crude
was at a premium of $8.24 to the equivalent-month WTI contract.
The gap between November contracts was $8.57 yesterday.  Cushing Supply  “The market is reacting to the big build that we saw in
oil inventory from the API,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market
analyst at the Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “The market
pretty much priced in the fact that the government would come
back to work. Now we are focusing on more fundamental things.”  Crude inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for futures traded on the Nymex, increased 291,000 barrels, the
API said. Genscape Inc., which uses infrared cameras to measure
storage levels, said today inventories at the hub rose 836,798
barrels last week to 36.9 million.  Gasoline supplies dropped by 2.21 million and distillate
fuel, including heating oil and diesel, declined by 1.32
million, the API said. The Energy Information Administration,
the Energy Department’s statistical arm, won’t release weekly
stockpile data today because of the government shutdown.  The EIA will release a schedule for the resumption of its
reports when that information becomes available,  Jonathan Cogan ,
a spokesman for the agency in Washington, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Supply Gains  Crude supplies climbed 14.9 million barrels in the previous
three EIA reports. They reached 370.5 million in the seven days
ended Oct. 4, the highest level in three months, according to
the agency. The  refinery  utilization rate decreased to 86
percent, the least since April.  API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA for its
weekly survey.  “We’re moving lower on higher inventories today,” said
 John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based
hedge fund that focuses on energy. “The API showed a
substantial build in supply as refinery run rates headed south.
Given refinery runs and output we should continue to see builds
for a considerable time.”  Jobless Claims  Last week’s jobless claims exceeded the 335,000 forecast by
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Federal workers filed about
70,000 claims two weeks ago, the Labor Department report showed.
Those were tallied in a separate category and didn’t influence
the headline reading, though contractors’ furloughs will count,
a Labor Department spokesman said.  “The data was not great,” Flynn said. “The jobless
claims were higher than expected. There are signs that the
economy is slowing a little bit.”  The passage last night of the congressional deal by wide
margins -- an 81-18 vote in the Democratic-led Senate, followed
by a 285-144 vote in the Republican-controlled House -- allows
the U.S. to avoid default and ends the shutdown that began Oct.
1 and has taken $24 billion out of the economy.  President  Barack Obama  signed the bill just after midnight,
according to a White House statement. The measure puts
government workers back on the job as soon as today and permits
the U.S. to continue paying its debts, benefits and salaries.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
December was 19.6 percent, up from 20.8 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 792,062
contracts as of 2:57 p.m. It totaled 752,832 yesterday, 29
percent higher than the three-month average. Open interest was
1.82 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  