-- Crude Might Drop 10% If Iran Oil Returns to Market, Blanch Says
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-10-17T15:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/crude-might-drop-10-if-iran-oil-returns-to-market-blanch-says.html
Crude prices will probably drop,
perhaps as much as 10 percent, if Iranian oil is reintroduced to
the world market,  Francisco Blanch , head of global commodities
and derivatives research for Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said
at the Bloomberg Oil & Gas Conference.  “WTI will fall below $100, maybe to the high $90s, and
Brent will be at about $105,” he said at the meeting today in
Houston. “We’ve seen that a lot of economies out there cannot
take spikes in prices from where things are now.  Oil prices  will
stay in this range, and maybe drop off 10 percent if Iranian
crude comes back.”  Blanch spoke at the session along with Jason Bordoff,
director of the Center on Global Energy Policy at  Columbia
University , and Barry Smitherman, chairman of the  Texas  Railroad
Commission.  Brent crude  might be as high as $150 a barrel now if the
U.S. shale boom hadn’t increased oil production as output from
 Libya  declined and Iranian oil was blocked by an import ban,
Blanch said. Brent settled at $110.86 a barrel yesterday. WTI
closed at $102.29.  “We lost Libya and Iran, and we gained Texas,” Smitherman
joked. The Eagle Ford formation in southern Texas has boosted
production from next to nothing six years ago to more than
600,000 barrels a day, he said. Production has also been
increasing in the Permian Basin in western Texas, the largest
onshore oil field in the U.S.  “The Permian is like the Energizer Bunny,” Smitherman
said. “It just keeps going and going and going.”  U.S. natural gas prices probably won’t rise more than 10
percent because of liquefied natural gas exports, Bordoff said.
November gas futures were $3.769 per million British thermal
units yesterday.  “There will be modest upward pressure on prices in the
U.S., just like there is for agricultural goods or anything else
we export,” Bordoff said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  