-- Crude Drillers Shifting Water Use to Focus on Cost Savings
-- B y   R i c h a r d   S t u b b e   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-10-17T21:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/crude-drillers-shifting-water-use-to-focus-on-cost-savings.html
Oil drillers are trying to reduce
water costs as they try to improve margins for hydraulically
fractured wells in shale fields, Amanda Brock, chief executive
officer for Water Standard, said at Bloomberg’s Oil & Gas
Conference in Houston.  “At first, everyone was running around the country
drilling to maintain their leases and they didn’t care what they
paid for water,” Brock said to a crowd of about 150. “Now
producers are trying to make sure they make money, and they
can’t make money when they’re having to pay high water treatment
costs.”  Brock spoke in a panel with Emile Trombetti, a senior vice
president at  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , and Sean McGurk,
the global managing principal for critical infrastructure
protection and industrial control systems for  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)   Energy companies need to educate and train their workforces
to insulate them from cyber-attacks, Trombetti said. A company’s
computer system could be affected by something as simple as an
e-mail from a hacker masquerading as a message from a family
member.  “The minute you click on that, you’re infected,” he said.  Companies must go beyond physical processes to protect
sensitive information, McGurk said. He said he knew of one
company that covered USB ports with epoxy to keep people from
saving data to small memory storage devices that could be taken
out of the office. Someone got around that by unplugging the
keyboard and putting the memory device in that port, he said.  “Years ago security was guards, gates and guns, and it’s
not much different in cyber security today,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Stubbe in Houston at 
 rstubbe1@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  