-- Cruz Holds Vote on FCC Chairman Over Political Speech
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-10-17T19:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/cruz-holds-up-vote-on-fcc-chairman-after-citing-political-speech.html
Republican Senator  Ted Cruz  blocked
Tom Wheeler’s nomination to be chairman of the  U.S. Federal
Communications Commission  after asking whether the Democrat
would use the agency to regulate political speech.  Wheeler’s appointment was on a Senate calendar for action
yesterday and didn’t emerge as other nominees cleared the body.  “Yes, the senator is holding the nominee,” Sean Rushton,
a spokesman for Cruz, said in an e-mail today. Senators can by
tradition singlehandedly stall consideration of a presidential
appointee.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , of  West Virginia , the Democratic
chairman of the Commerce Committee, said in an e-mailed
statement he was “disappointed” that “highly qualified
nominees were blocked last night.”  Wheeler, a venture capitalist and former leader of trade
groups for the cable and wireless industries, would step into a
post open since May, when the last chairman departed. Since then
the FCC’s been led by Acting Chairwoman Mignon Clyburn.  Tasks before the FCC include staging auctions sought by
mobile providers led by  Verizon Wireless , considering a flurry
of television-station purchases proposed by companies including
 Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc. (SBGI) , and weighing  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s request
for regulatory relief as companies drop traditional switched
networks for connections that rely on Internet technologies.  Disclose Act  Cruz, of Texas, in a June hearing asked Wheeler to say
whether the agency could regulate political speech or implement
rules proposed under last year’s failed Disclose Act. The bill
opposed by Republicans would have required nonprofit groups to
reveal who pays for their political advertisements.  Cruz wants to know Wheeler’s views on implementing the
Disclose Act by administrative action, Rushton said. Cruz wants
to speak soon with Wheeler, he said.  At the hearing Cruz told Wheeler the disclosure issue has
“the potential to derail your nomination.”  “A substantial number of members of this body believe it
is unconstitutional and bad policy,” Cruz said.  Wheeler responded by saying, “That’s an issue that I look
forward to learning more about.”  Cruz isn’t guaranteed to stop a vote on Wheeler. Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat from Nevada, has advanced
floor votes on some nominations this year even as senators
insisted they wanted to continue holds on them, including the
choice of  John Brennan  to head the Central Intelligence Agency.  Senate Hold  One or more senators can impose a hold, a tactic
acknowledged by Senate tradition that does not exist under
formal rules in the chamber. Holds -- which are often used as a
way to extract information or concessions from the
administration -- are often honored, although other senators
usually pressure the lawmakers resisting action to drop their
objections.  Republican senators in a letter to the FCC in April called
the Disclose Act “one of the most politically charged, partisan
issues in recent Congresses.” The lawmakers urged the agency
not to implement its provisions.  The FCC last year adopted a rule saying television stations
must disclose on a public website details of political ad
purchases.  ‘Disturbing Trend’  The requirement is “part of a disturbing trend to expand
regulation of political speech,”  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky ,
the Senate’s top Republican, said in a letter to the agency.
McConnell said the administration of President  Barack Obama  was
reacting to the  Supreme Court ’s Citizens United ruling of 2010,
which removed limits on independent campaign spending by
corporations and labor unions.  Groups that kept their donors secret spent $311 million on
campaigns in 2012, with 85 percent of the money favoring
Republicans, according to the Center for Responsive Politics,
which tracks campaign contributions.  The Senate also has before it the nomination to an FCC seat
of Michael O’Rielly, a Republican congressional aide, whose
arrival along with Wheeler would bring an occupant to each of
the agency’s five seats.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  