-- Debt Agreement Is ‘Credit Positive’ for U.S., Moody’s Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-10-17T18:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/debt-agreement-is-credit-positive-for-u-s-moody-s-says.html
The U.S. government’s borrowing-limit agreement includes “credit-positive elements” for its
Aaa rating, as it showed officials will act to ensure payments
to creditors and created a process that may lead to debt
reduction, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  “Although the existence of the debt limit is a negative
for the country’s debt management and for financial markets, the
government and politicians will act to protect the ability of
the government to meet its obligations,”  Steven Hess , Moody’s
senior vice-president and lead sovereign analyst for the U.S.,
wrote today in a report.  The ratio of public debt to gross domestic product is
forecast to fall to 74.6 percent in 2015 after peaking next year
at 76.2 percent, according to a  Congressional Budget Office 
forecast in May.  “Our evaluation of the creditworthiness of the U.S.
government is based on long-term considerations and the debt
trajectory,” Moody’s said. “For the next few years, the debt
trajectory is relatively favorable.”  A stalemate over U.S. fiscal policy that partially shut the
government for 16 days ended yesterday after Congress passed a
bipartisan accord to avert default.  ‘Debt Trajectory’  Washington ’s focus now shifts to a new series of deadlines
-- the first for budget negotiations with a Dec. 13 target --
that set up more rounds of political combat over taxes and
spending on programs including  Social Security  and Medicare. The
deal funds the government at Republican-backed spending levels
through Jan. 15, and suspends the debt limit through Feb. 7.  “There is a possibility, although we do not give it a high
probability, that reforms to entitlement programs, such as
Social Security and Medicare, could be included in these
negotiations,” Moody’s said. “Such programs are a very
substantial portion of federal-government spending. As a result,
measures to address these programs could have a positive effect
on the long-term debt trajectory. At this stage, we do not think
this is a likely outcome.”  The U.S.’s AAA credit grade was placed on rating watch
negative on Oct. 15 by  Fitch Ratings , which cited the
government’s failure to raise its borrowing limit as the
Treasury’s deadline neared.  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S.
of its top credit ranking on Aug. 5, 2011, on Washington
gridlock and the lack of an agreement to contain its growing
ratio of debt to gross domestic product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  