-- Debt Deal Seen Boosting U.S. Consumers as Holidays Near: Economy
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-10-17T16:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/debt-deal-seen-boosting-u-s-consumers-as-holidays-approach.html
American consumers are likely to
breathe easier during the  holiday shopping season  now that
lawmakers have struck a deal to avert a U.S. default and end a
government shutdown.  The political gridlock that ended yesterday helped push
expectations for the economy to a two-year low in October,
according to the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index released
today. Confidence will rebound, predicts economist Neil Dutta,
boding well for the spending that accounts for 70 percent of
gross domestic product.  The debt-ceiling deal will probably produce a “relief
rally in consumer confidence, the same way we talk about a
relief rally in the equity market,” Dutta, head of U.S.
economics at Renaissance Macro Research LLC in  New York , said in
a telephone interview. The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index climbed
0.3 percent today to 1,726 at 12 p.m. in New York, surpassing
its previous record close.  Other reports today showed more Americans than forecast
filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, and
factories in the Philadelphia region expanded more than
projected in October.  While a permanent budget agreement has yet to be reached,
an improving labor market and a rebound in stocks will probably
help households shrug off future  Washington  squabbles, said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics in
Valhalla, New York.  The compromise funds the government through Jan. 15 and
suspends the debt limit until Feb. 7, setting up another round
of confrontations then. Any fallout from those negotiations will
be blunted as Americans increasingly view elected officials as
“The boy who cried wolf,” O’Sullivan said.  Disaster Averted  “We’ve gone through this process a few times now and at
the end of the day, disaster was averted,” said O’Sullivan, who
is the best consumer-sentiment forecaster over the past two
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “People are
thinking there’s no wolf there. This is only going to reinforce
that.”  Some manufacturers are already looking beyond the fray. The
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic  index 
fell less than forecast this month, dropping to 19.8 from a more
than two-year high of 22.3 in September. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a decline to 15.
Readings greater than zero signal growth in the area, which
covers eastern Pennsylvania, southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  The region’s factory managers were the most optimistic
about the future in 10 years, today’s report also showed. The
outlook index for six months from now increased to 60.8, the
highest since September 2003, from 58.2 last month.  Expectations Plunge  The monthly Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index  expectations
gauge  plunged to minus 31 in October, the lowest level since
November 2011, from minus 9 last month. The  share  of people
projecting the economy will worsen jumped by the most since the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. five years ago. The
 weekly measure  of current conditions fell to minus 34.1 in the
period ended Oct. 13, the weakest since March.  Nonetheless, households’ reactions so far are less severe
than the last time the issue of the debt ceiling flared in mid-2011. Last week’s comfort index compares with a reading of minus
49.1 at the end of August 2011.  Back then, even as the U.S. lost its top  credit rating  from
Standard & Poor’s, no major slowing in spending occurred as
confidence climbed in each of the following nine months, said
O’Sullivan. The damage done from the most recent shutdown “is
not too extreme,” he said.  Easing Concern  That may ease concern among some merchants that the
partial government shutdown and talk of default would hurt
sales. About 20 percent of the retail industry’s annual sales
come during the $600 billion holiday shopping season, and some
42 million Americans work in retail and related careers,
according to the National Retail Foundation.  “Whether it’s  consumer confidence , employment numbers and
now with the issues going on with the government shutdown, it
obviously doesn’t do much to build confidence,” James Buettgen,
president and chief executive officer at  Ruby Tuesday Inc. (RT)  said
on an Oct. 9 earnings call. “And it’s a little hard to tell
where things are going to go until some of that clears up and we
see where consumers really are.”  The Maryville, Tennessee-based casual dining chain  reported 
sales at restaurants open at least a year fell 11.4 percent in
the three months ended Sept. 3 from the same period in 2012.  Government Assistance  More than half of Matthews, North Carolina-based  Family
Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO) ’s customers are on some sort of government
assistance, “so when they hear and read about all this
uncertainty, I think it impacts their confidence,”  Howard Levine , the company’s chairman and chief executive officer, said
on an Oct. 9 earnings call.  The federal government’s delay of the debt-ceiling debate
could “increase the amount of anxiety and apprehension,” among
retailers ahead of the holiday season, Jack Kleinhenz, chief
economist for the Washington-based  National Retail Federation ,
said in an interview. “If business is still uncertain about the
direction, that’s going to impact hiring and spending to a
degree.”  Not everyone is as optimistic as Dutta and O’Sullivan. A
short-term fix to the budget and debt ceiling issues means
uncertainty would extend over a longer period of time, producing
a greater drag on the economy,  John Silvia , chief economist at
 Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , wrote
in an Oct. 16 note to clients.  Cash Management  The short-term nature of the deal “intimates that the
private sector, both households and businesses, will emphasize
more cautious cash management over the next three months given
the likelihood of yet another contentious political debate,”
Silvia said.  The shutdown shaved 0.6 percentage point from annualized
fourth-quarter growth, taking $24 billion out of the economy,
S&P said in a statement yesterday. In September, the company
forecast a growth rate of about 3 percent.  “If people are afraid that the government policy
brinkmanship will resurface again, and with it the risk of
another shutdown or worse, they’ll remain afraid to open up
their checkbooks,” S&P said. “That points to another Humbug
holiday season.”  One caveat may be that consumers are compartmentalizing
their concerns. While they have lost faith the economy will
prosper, they are more optimistic about their own situations.  In the Thomson/Reuters University of Michigan consumer
sentiment survey, Americans said they expect their incomes will
grow by 1.1 percent in the next 12 months, the most in five
years,  Jonathan Basile , an economist at Credit Suisse in New
York, wrote in an Oct. 11 note.  Jobs Matter  Consumers have given a “no-confidence vote on leadership
in Washington, but that doesn’t necessarily have a direct impact
on what they do with their money,” Basile said in an interview.
“Whether you have a job matters, and how much money you have
matters.”  Even that’s becoming harder to gauge. Consumers, retailers
and investors are all contending with a murkier picture of U.S.
economic health amid a dearth of government-supplied economic
data due to the shutdown. The Bureau of Labor Statistics didn’t
issue September’s  jobs report  and hasn’t been able to compile
and crunch data for October’s release.  Jobless claims  decreased  by 15,000 to 358,000 in the week
ended Oct. 12 from 373,000 in the prior period, according to
Labor Department figures issued today. The reading exceeded the
335,000 median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg as a
government spokesman said the number of applications in
California continued to be elevated as the state worked through
a backlog caused by a change in computer systems.  Still, the underlying trends in growth and employment seem
constructive, and the eventual elimination of fiscal threats
will bolster the consumer, Basile said.  “Those trends are supportive for  consumer spending ,” he
said. “There’s an underlying strength that’s putting a floor
under sentiment this time.” 