-- Delayed September U.S. Employment Report Coming Out Next Week
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-10-17T22:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/delayed-september-u-s-employment-report-coming-out-next-week.html
The September U.S. employment
figures, delayed by the 16-day partial shutdown of the federal
government that ended today, will be issued on Oct. 22, the
Labor Department said.  A total of nine releases were rescheduled, including the
October employment report, which will be pushed back to Nov. 8
from the originally announced Nov. 1, according to an
 announcement  today on the Labor Department’s website.  The September jobs data, first planned to come out on Oct.
4, were postponed after lawmakers failed to agree on funding the
government by the start of the new fiscal year on Oct. 1.
Figures from the Commerce Department, including retail sales and
housing starts, were also postponed and have yet to be
rescheduled.  Under normal circumstances, workers from the Census Bureau
would have begun surveying households on Oct. 13 to ask people
if they were employed during the previous week. The results
would then be shared with analysts at the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, who use it to calculate size of the workforce and
the jobless rate.  Accuracy Risk  The delay risks undermining the accuracy of the jobless
rate, one of the main measures of the strength of the economy,
because it means Americans will be reaching further back into
their memories to come up with answers, former BLS commissioners
Katharine Abraham and Keith Hall said in interviews last week.  In addition to the jobs reports, investors will get another
labor-market gauge on Oct. 24 with the rescheduled release of
the August job openings and labor turnover survey.  Figures on pricing will follow. The September producer
price index will be released Oct. 29, while data on consumer
prices and real earnings for the month will be issued on Oct.
30. Third-quarter figures on employment costs will be released
Nov. 19.  Rescheduled dates for other postponed reports, including
October inflation data and the preliminary figures on third-quarter productivity, will be announced “later this month,”
the Labor Department said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  