-- Dell Shareholders Approve Board at Symbolic Last Meeting
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-10-17T14:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/dell-shareholders-approve-board-at-symbolic-last-meeting.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  shareholders approved
executives’ pay and slate of directors at the computer maker’s
final meeting as a public company before it becomes a private
enterprise later this month.  Since Dell is being purchased in a $24.9 billion leveraged
buyout by Chief Executive Officer Michael Dell and Silver Lake
Management LLC, today’s  meeting  at the Round Rock, Texas,
headquarters was largely symbolic. The deal is scheduled to
close before Nov. 1, the end of Dell’s fiscal third quarter.  When the buyout group sweetened its offer in August to
acquire Dell, it arranged to hold a separate meeting to elect
directors in an effort to thwart  Carl Icahn ’s opposition to the
deal. The financier had sought to have a vote on the buyout and
the annual meeting on the same day, to force a proxy fight.  “The directors’ terms are up and you’ve got to have
someone running it until the deal closes,” said  Charles Elson ,
director of the  John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance 
at the  University of Delaware . “You want to make sure the board
has authority through the close.”  The annual meeting, at which shareholders also approved
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC as Dell’s auditor this year, marks
one of the final steps in a protracted takeover fight that
spanned most of the year.  After Dell and Silver Lake announced their intention to buy
the company in February, private-equity firm  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
explored an acquisition of the computer maker before withdrawing
in April. Icahn and his partner, Southeastern Asset Management
Inc., made a series of alternate proposals to investors, seeking
to upend the original deal before bowing out earlier this month.  Michael Dell  clinched the deal on Aug. 2 to buy back the
company he founded in 1984, when he offered more money in
exchange for more lenient voting rules. Shareholders ratified
the deal Sept. 12, clearing the way for the buyers to move
forward with their plan to turn Dell into a bigger supplier of
hardware and software for corporate data centers, as well as
mobile technology, from a company largely dependent on personal
computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  