-- Dianping Sees IPO Larger Than Yelp as Users Tap China Reviews
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-17T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/dianping-sees-ipo-larger-than-yelp-as-users-tap-china-reviews.html
Dianping.com,  China ’s largest
website for location-based food and entertainment services,
plans to sell shares in an initial public offering in five years
and says it may be worth more than  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  or  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)   The company prefers a U.S. listing, founder and chief
executive officer Zhang Tao said in an interview this week at
the company’s  Shanghai  office. Zhang, 40, estimates Dianping’s
value at more than $10 billion.  Dianping, with 75 million monthly active users for services
similar to those offered by Yelp and Groupon, is tapping into
China’s surging middle class as consumers seek information on
restaurants and entertainment. With more than 28 million reviews
covering 2,300 cities, the platform has been a potential
acquisition target for the nation’s biggest Internet companies
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and  Baidu
Inc. (BIDU)   “Dianping is very strong in offline data and also on
mobile, these are areas where the three big Internet companies
fall short on,” said Cao Lei, a director at China e-Business
Research Center in Hangzhou. “It could potentially become
very big.”  Dianping, backed by Sequoia Capital Operations LLC and
 Lightspeed Venture Partners , was founded in 2003 in Shanghai
and offers local business-search services that include consumer-generated reviews. Users can also buy coupons and enjoy group
discounts. The company has collected data on more than 6 million
local businesses across China.  Yelp had a market value of about  $4.6 billion  and Groupon
was worth $7.6 billion as of Oct. 16.  Turn Profitable  More than 70 percent of Dianping’s 2.5 billion monthly page
views come from mobile users, according to the company’s
 website .  Management and staff own more than 50 percent of the
company’s shares, while other investors such as Sequoia each own
about 10 percent, said Zhang.  Dianping will lose money this year due to an investment in
its group buying business. Zhang expects the company to turn a
profit as soon as next year.  The company generates about half its revenue from fees for
promoting businesses on its platform and the other half on
income-generated from its group buying services. Revenue more
than doubled last year, reaching hundreds of millions of
dollars, said Zhang, who declined to provide exact figures.  Dianping plans to increase staff by about 20 percent to 30
percent within the next year from approximately 3,000 people.  Group Buying  Dianping is competing with sites including Alibaba-backed
Meituan.com and Baidu’s Nuomi Holdings Inc. to become China’s
top group-buying website.  E-commerce spending by Chinese consumers will reach 3.3
trillion  yuan  ($541 billion) by 2015, acccording to a Bain & Co.
report in August. China has more than 591 million Web users.  China’s largest Internet companies are seeking more
customers through acquisitions in the world’s biggest Internet
market, which last year saw about 1.4 trillion yuan spent on e-commerce and online advertising.  Alibaba invested $586 million in  Sina Corp. (SINA) ’s Weibo unit,
while Baidu agreed to pay $1.85 billion for 91 Wireless Websoft
Ltd. to add China’s biggest third-party app store. Tencent last
month paid $448 million for a stake in China’s No. 3 search
engine.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  