-- Dollar Slumps to 8-Month Low on Fed-Stimulus Bets
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-10-17T21:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/dollar-slides-amid-bets-fed-will-maintain-stimulus-franc-rises.html
The  dollar  fell to an eight-month
low against a basket of 10 major currencies on bets disruption
from the U.S. debt-ceiling debate will damp growth and prompt
the  Federal Reserve  to postpone tapering its stimulus program.  The greenback lost the most in a month versus the euro as
Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said fiscal discord
has undermined the case for slowing the central bank’s bond
purchases, which tend to debase the dollar. A 16-day government
shutdown ended after Congress approved a deal yesterday
extending funding and debt-limit deadlines into next year. The
pound climbed after U.K. retail sales rose more than forecast.  “Tapering is looking less and less likely,”  Richard Franulovich , the chief currency strategist for the northern
hemisphere at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in  New York , said in a phone
interview. “In the next few months, there’s a window of
opportunity for currencies and risk assets to rally across the
board against the dollar.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index slumped 0.9 percent to
1,002.65 at 5 p.m. New York time and reached 1,002.41, the least
since Feb. 14. It breached the lower of the 20-day Bollinger
bands, a technical indicator, signaling prices may have fallen
too far, too fast.  The dollar sank 1 percent to $1.3675 per euro and fell as
much as 1.1 percent, the biggest intraday drop since Sept. 18.
It touched $1.3682, the weakest level since Feb. 1. The U.S.
currency slid 0.9 percent to 97.91 yen after gaining earlier to
99.01, the strongest since Sept. 27. The euro rose 0.2 percent
to 133.90 yen.  ‘Getting Grumpy’  “The market is getting grumpy with the dollar,”  David Bloom , head of global currency strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc in
London, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse” with Francine Lacqua and  Guy Johnson . “It is going
through the throes of thinking, can the Fed taper this year?
It’s starting to look less likely.”  Sterling rallied the most in a month against the dollar
after the U.K. Office for National Statistics said retail sales
including fuel increased 0.6 percent from August, when they
declined 0.8 percent. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
was for a 0.4 percent gain.  “There’s a lot of bullish sentiment toward the pound,”
said Kathleen Brooks, European research director at Forex.com in
 London . “It’s being driven by a weak tone in the dollar
combined with the U.K. data.”  Pound’s Jump  The pound strengthened as much as 1.4 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since Sept. 18, to $1.6172 before trading at
$1.6165, up 1.3 percent.  President  Barack Obama  signed into law the measure to fund
the U.S. government through Jan. 15, 2014, and extend its
borrowing authority until Feb. 7, setting up another round of
confrontations. The accord was reached a day after  Fitch Ratings 
said it may cut the U.S. AAA credit grade, citing the inability
to raise the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling in a timely manner.  “It wasn’t a good deal for the dollar,”  Simon Smith ,
chief economist at FxPro Group Ltd. in London, said in a phone
interview. “Obviously the uncertainties of the debt ceiling and
government shutdown are only delayed. It’s going to be dollar-negative in the next three months.”  The Fed buys $85 billion of bonds a month to put pressure
on long-term borrowing rates and spur growth. Policy makers
unexpectedly refrained from reducing the purchases last month,
saying they wanted more evidence of an economic recovery.  ‘Fiscal Shenanigans’  Talk of cutting bond purchases has “been swamped by fiscal
shenanigans,” Fisher of the Dallas Fed told reporters today
after a speech to the  Economic Club of New York . Fisher, who has
consistently called for reducing record stimulus, will have a
vote on monetary policy next year.  “With all the silliness going on here, that’s pushed
tapering out until at least the first quarter,” Ric Deverell,
the New York-based global head of foreign-exchange and
commodities at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in an interview on
 Bloomberg Radio ’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Michael
McKee . “That probably means you don’t get a clear direction
from the dollar until at least 2014.”  The greenback lost 1.5 percent in the past month, according
to Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-country currencies. The euro gained 1.1 percent.  Europe ’s shared currency may be headed for a decline
against the dollar. The euro’s 14-day relative-strength index
rose to 68, approaching the 70 threshold that signals a change
in direction may be imminent.  Won’s Move  South Korea’s won reached a nine-month high versus the
dollar, even as an official said the government is monitoring
price moves closely.  The  finance ministry  is watching for “herd behavior” and
an increase in volatility, Kim Seong Wook, a director at the
ministry’s Foreign Exchange Market Division said by phone.  The won gained 0.2 percent to close at 1,063.58 per dollar
in  Seoul  after reaching 1,063.10, the strongest since Jan. 23.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $48 billion, from $49 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $10.3 billion, the largest share
of trades at 22 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled
$9.4 billion, or 20 percent.  Greenback-yen options trading was 58 percent more than the
average for the past five Thursdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options
trading was 80 percent above average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  