-- Dollar Reaches Eight-Month Low Amid Bets Amid Bets on Fed
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-10-18T21:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/dollar-weakens-as-fed-signals-taper-delay-before-housing-report.html
The dollar touched the lowest level
in eight months against a basket of 10 major peers on concern
political wrangling over the U.S. debt limit disrupted growth
and will prompt the  Federal Reserve  to delay tapering stimulus.  The greenback had its biggest weekly drop in a month versus
the euro after a deal in Congress this week ended a government
shutdown and averted a potential default.  Australia ’s dollar and
 South Korea ’s won gained as demand for higher-yielding assets
rose amid data showing China’s economic growth quickened and a
survey that forecast the Fed will delay slowing bond purchases
until March. Carry trades rebounded amid lower volatility.  “You have this disruption, and it looks like there’ll be
no Fed tapering this quarter,”  Greg Anderson , New York-based
head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Bank of Montreal,
said in a phone interview. While the euro rallied versus the
dollar over the past two days, “it’s Friday, looks like we ran
out of steam.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index sank to 1,000.70, the
lowest since Feb. 13, before trading little changed at 1,002.73
at 5 p.m.  New York  time. The gauge lost 1 percent this week, the
biggest decline since the five days ended Sept. 20.  The dollar slipped 0.1 percent to $1.3687 per euro after
depreciating earlier to $1.3704, the weakest level since Feb. 1.
It dropped 1 percent this week, also the most since Sept. 20.
The U.S. currency declined 0.2 percent to 97.72 yen. The euro
traded at 133.79 yen after earlier gaining to 134.19, the
strongest since Sept. 23.-  Aussie Gains  The Australian dollar extended a weekly gain after  China ’s
National Bureau of Statistics said  gross domestic product 
expanded at a faster pace for the first time in three quarters,
quickening 7.8 percent in the three months through September
from a year earlier. China is the South Pacific nation’s biggest
trade partner.  The Aussie strengthened 0.4 percent to 96.77 U.S. cents and
reached 96.78 cents, the highest since June 4. It gained 2.2
percent this week, the most since the five days ended Sept. 6.  China’s  yuan  was little changed at 6.0968 per dollar after
reaching 6.0915, the strongest since the government unified the
official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  South Korea’s won led Asian currencies in a third weekly
gain on optimism the Fed will delay any reduction in stimulus.  Risk Sentiment  “The removal of the U.S. default risk added to improving
risk sentiment,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a researcher at the Japan
Center for  Economic Research  in  Tokyo . Speculation the Fed
“will not rush to reduce stimulus already gave some underlying
support to emerging-market assets,” he said.  The won appreciated 0.3 percent to 1,060.84 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,060.32,
the strongest level since Jan. 21. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia
Dollar Index rose 0.4 percent.  The last-minute deal reached by U.S. lawmakers this week
extended the nation’s borrowing authority to Feb. 7, from
yesterday, and will fund the government through Jan. 15.  The U.S. central bank buys $85 billion of bonds a month to
put pressure on long-term borrowing rates and spur growth. The
purchases tend to debase the dollar. Fed policy makers
unexpectedly refrained from slowing the purchases last month,
saying they wanted more evidence of an economic recovery.  The Fed will delay the first cut to its buying until March,
according to the median estimate of 40 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg Oct. 17-18. A poll last month forecast the first
reduction would be in December.  ‘Stay Weak’  “The dollar will stay weak until at least when it’s more
obvious the Fed’s going to start tapering,”  Paul Robson , senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 London , said in a phone interview. “We think it’s going to be
in March, so it’s still some way off.”  Carry trades, in which investors borrow in countries with
low  interest rates  and use the proceeds to invest in those with
higher rates, are making investors the most money in more than a
year amid bets the Fed will postpone slowing its bond-buying.  Deutsche Bank AG’s G-10 FX Carry Basket index has gained
4.7 percent from Aug. 30 through yesterday, poised for its
biggest two-month gain since rising 4.8 percent from June to
July 2012. Confidence in trades has also been supported by the
lowest volatility in more than nine months.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index reached
7.73 percent, the least since Jan. 9. The average this year is
9.33 percent.  Currency Performance  The dollar slid 3.8 percent in the past three months, the
worst performer in a basket of 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro rose
0.9 percent, while the yen dropped 0.8 percent.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $48 billion, versus $48 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the euro-dollar  exchange rate  amounted to $10.6 billion, the largest
share of trades at 22 percent. Options on the dollar-yen rate
totaled $8.4 billion, or 18 percent.  Euro-dollar options trading was 216 percent more than the
average for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yen options trading was
27 percent more than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  