-- Dongfeng Weighs Rationale for Buying a Stake in Peugeot
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-17T13:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/dongfeng-says-it-s-weighing-sensibility-of-buying-peugeot-stake.html
A  Dongfeng Motor Corp. (489)  executive
said the state-owned Chinese automaker, which is linked to a
potential stake purchase in  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , should first
look at whether such a move makes sense.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-largest automaker, is considering
stake sales to Dongfeng and  France ’s government to shore up
funding as car sales in the region plunge to a 20-year low,
people familiar with the matter said. Chinese state-owned
companies usually obtain permission from the National
Development Reform Commission, the top planning agency, before
commencing formal negotiations on foreign investments.  “It’s too early to talk about whether we have NDRC’s
approval to go ahead with talks,” Zhu Fushou, general manager
of Dongfeng Motor, said at an auto-industry forum in Wuhan,
where the carmaker is based. “What matters here is not NDRC’s
approval, it is whether the project is reasonable or not.”  Zhu’s comments signal that Dongfeng has yet to get
permission from the Chinese government on Paris-based Peugeot.
The French government is monitoring talks with Dongfeng and may
participate should the Chinese automaker decide in favor of a
purchase, two of the people familiar with the matter said this
month. The negotiations are at an early stage and not expected
to be completed for several weeks, they said.  Probable Investors  “As of today, the likely outcome of all of this is to see
both the French state and Dongfeng buying up stakes in
Peugeot,” said Florent Couvreur, an analyst at CM-CIC
Securities who recommends selling the shares.  Peugeot  rose  as much as 6.3 percent to 10.90 euros, the
steepest intraday climb since Sept. 10, and was trading up 5.3
percent at 3:47 p.m. in Paris. The carmaker’s market value has
almost doubled this year to 3.83 billion euros ($5.23 billion).  Dongfeng ended acquisition talks earlier this year with
Fisker Automotive Inc., a U.S. maker of luxury plug-in cars, as
there was “some distance” between the manufacturers’ plans,
Chairman Xu Ping said in March. Dongfeng then purchased an
undisclosed stake in May in smaller, state-owned Fujian Motor
Industry Group Co., giving it access to manufacturing capacity
in southeastern  China .  The government in China, home to more than 110 auto brands,
has said it will curb the increase in carmaking capacity and
encourage mergers and reorganizations in the industry to create
three to five domestic producers that can compete with companies
such as  General Motors Co. (GM)   GM Ties  GM, which owns Ruesselsheim, Germany-based Opel and U.K.
carmaker Vauxhall, is already a partner with Peugeot on
developing models and sharing supply procurement in Europe. The
Detroit-based company owns 7 percent of Peugeot under the
alliance, which is part of the French company’s strategy to
restore earnings.  Peugeot burned through 3 billion euros in  cash  last year,
and the automotive unit reported a first-half 2013 operating
loss of 510 million euros. It remains on target to cut the cash-consumption rate by 50 percent this year and is on track for a
“very significant reduction” in 2014, Chief Financial Officer
Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said yesterday.  Peugeot plans a “clear improvement” of its market share
in  Europe  in the fourth quarter compared to the third, the CFO
said in the interview yesterday. The new 2008 urban crossover
and 308 hatchback will help push the gains, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  