-- LME Aluminum Stocks Jump Most in a Year as Financing Continues
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-10-17T12:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/lme-aluminum-stocks-jump-most-in-a-year-as-financing-continues.html
Aluminum inventories tracked by the
 London  Metal Exchange jumped the most in more than a year,
following a gain in zinc stockpiles, amid continued appetite to
use industrial metals in so-called financing transactions.  Stocks of aluminum rose 1.5 percent, the most since Sept.
13, 2012, to 5.42 million metric tons, daily exchange data
showed today. Zinc inventories had this year’s third-biggest
increase yesterday, climbing back above 1 million tons with the
help of a 12 percent jump in New Orleans warehouses.  As much as 80 percent of stockpiled LME aluminum and 60
percent of zinc inventories may be tied to financing
transactions and unavailable to consumers, according to  Societe
Generale  SA. Investors use the transactions to capitalize on
markets in contango, when prices increase for later deliveries.  “If you have metal as a bank or trading house and you
can’t easily find a customer, it’s simply a no-brainer to put it
into financing deals,”  Robin Bhar , an analyst at Societe
Generale in London, said by phone today. A sizable delivery at a
storage point usually signals a financing transaction involving
metal already held there, he said.  LME aluminum for immediate delivery settled at a $47-a-ton
discount to the contract for delivery in three months yesterday.
The gap reached $50.65 in August, the widest since November
2008, and cash zinc’s discount to the three-month contract
expanded to the broadest since October 2008 in the same month.  Borrowing Costs  Financing accords typically involve buying metal for nearby
delivery while making a forward sale to benefit from a contango.
The spread, favorable rent charges and low borrowing costs help
boost the transactions’ profitability. Agreements that lock up
metal for three to six months are now more “popular” than
those lasting longer, according to Societe Generale.  “Generally we should see a pickup in demand in the fourth
quarter,” Bhar said. “Until that happens, financial demand
will be bigger than industrial demand.”  New Orleans  is the biggest global repository for LME stocks
of zinc, used to rust-proof steel, and the Dutch port city of
Vlissingen holds the most aluminum. Inventories of the
lightweight metal in Vlissingen gained 4.3 percent today to 2.09
million tons, the highest level since at least January 1999,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vlissingen is one of five locations characterized by
lengthy wait times to withdraw metals from warehouses. The LME,
which oversees more than 700 sites, has proposed obliging
warehouses with waits exceeding 100 days to ship out more metal
than they take in. The change will take effect April 1 if it’s
approved this month at an LME board meeting.  World Stocks  While the proposal may permit more aluminum to leave LME
warehouses, financing accords may still prevent supplies from
reaching industrial consumers, according to Wood Mackenzie Ltd.
The Edinburgh-based researcher says global inventories,
including those tracked by the LME, are about 14 million tons.  “Substantial stocks exist outside the exchange
warehouses,” said Nic Brown, head of commodity research at
Natixis SA in London. “Once the new LME rules on delivery-out
rates are applied, a greater proportion of stocks are likely to
accumulate outside the system in future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  