-- Tea Party Scores Gains: Bloomberg Businessweek Opening Remarks
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2013-10-17T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/tea-party-scores-gains-bloomberg-businessweek-opening-remarks.html
Say this for  Tea Party  Republicans:
They don’t back down. No apologies for triggering a partial
shutdown of the federal government, then refusing to raise the
debt ceiling without concessions.  Condemnation rains down on them from the White House, from
foreign capitals, from public opinion polls, yet the Tea Party
rages on. Its supporters say they have no choice: Deficits are
out of control; something must be done and soon.  “Politicians have very effectively addicted Americans to
government, but it’s not sustainable,” says Republican Senator
Ron Johnson of Wisconsin. It’s that sense of being on the brink
of disaster that feeds Tea Partiers’ determination to fight to
the end. For them, the debt-ceiling deal reached by the Senate
on Oct. 16 is merely a cease-fire, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Oct. 21 issue.  Yet the Tea Party’s belief that things are slipping away is
misplaced. Obamacare aside, events have actually gone the
movement’s way ever since Republicans wrested control of the
 House of Representatives  in the 2010 midterm elections.  Discretionary spending has been falling. Federal-employee
head count is down. And since 2010,  deficit  reduction has been
more rapid than in any three-year period since the
demobilization following World War II.  Domestic Spending  Discretionary spending, which excludes transfer payments
and interest, will fall even more in the decades ahead if the
laws that the Tea Party helped get on the books stay there.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  projects that,
under current law, by 2038 total spending on everything other
than the major health-care programs,  Social Security , and
interest will decline to the smallest share of the economy since
the 1930s.  President  Ronald Reagan  had nothing on today’s Tea Party
when it comes to shrinking the parts of government that require
annual appropriations by Congress.  “That part of the budget has been cut very significantly,
I think more than anyone would have expected or would have
thought even was possible before the 2010 elections,” says  Ed Lorenzen , executive director of the Moment of Truth Project,
which was started by would-be budget cutters Alan Simpson and
 Erskine Bowles .  High Price  Tea Partiers like to see themselves as underdogs in a war
against profligate spending. The truth is they’ve already won.  That victory, however, has come at a high price. The Tea
Party pushed for heavy spending cuts when the economy was weak,
needlessly depressing output and keeping the  unemployment  rate
high.  The  International Monetary Fund , which supports long-run
deficit reduction, declared in June that the U.S. program was
“excessively rapid and ill-designed.”  It almost tipped the economy into recession, says  Mark Zandi , chief economist of Moody’s Analytics. The Congressional
Budget Office estimated in September that waiving spending caps
now would create about 800,000 jobs by the end of 2014.  What’s worse, the cuts the Tea Party achieved have come
almost entirely on the discretionary side of the budget, choking
everything from medical research to antipoverty programs to food
inspection.  Discretionary spending is the most vulnerable because it
must be appropriated annually. The Tea Party, and Washington in
general, have scarcely touched the real problem: entitlements
such as Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, which are on
track to soak up huge portions of the national income in coming
decades.  ‘Fiscal Problem’  “Most economists, I dare say all economists, recognize
that we have a long-run fiscal problem that needs to be
addressed,” says  Joel Prakken , co-founder of Macroeconomic
Advisers, a St. Louis-based forecasting firm. “But you can’t
address it by cutting discretionary spending alone.”  In political terms, the Tea Party’s scorched-earth strategy
has produced some impressive legislative wins yet damaged the
movement’s popularity. Now its blunt tactics threaten to make
deficit reduction seem like a fringe issue, one of concern only
to extremists.  The Greek king Pyrrhus, after whom Pyrrhic victories are
named, once said, “If we are victorious in one more battle with
the Romans, we shall be utterly ruined.”  To understand why Tea Party heroes such as Senator  Ted Cruz 
of Texas and Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota rail
against compromise, it’s instructive to recall how the Tea Party
got started in the first place.  Soaring Debt  Federal debt jumped by nearly $5 trillion during the eight
years in office of Republican President  George W. Bush , for whom
most Tea Partiers have little but disdain. Then the Obama
administration used deficit spending to fight the worst economic
downturn since the Great Depression.  The debt has grown an additional $6.1 trillion during
President Barack Obama’s four and a half years in office to its
current level of $16.7 trillion.  Each year of the historic run-up, deficit hawks heard the
same thing from leaders of both parties: “Now isn’t a good time
to get the debt under control.” “Maybe next year, when the
economy’s healthier.”  That maybe-next-year message left Tea Partiers determined
not to be fooled again. The 2010 midterm elections produced the
biggest realignment of congressional seats since 1948, giving
Republicans a majority in the House.  Tight Caps  Although the economy remained weak, stimulus was henceforth
off the table. The debt-ceiling struggle in the summer of 2011
gave deficit hawks an opportunity to flex their new muscle: The
Budget Control Act that emerged from the last-minute debt-ceiling deal put tight caps on discretionary spending for 10
years starting this year.  Conservative Republicans, however, insisted even those cuts
didn’t go far enough. So the deal also created a -12-member
bipartisan supercommittee to agree on additional reductions. The
fallback in case the supercommittee failed -- which it did --
was sequestration: automatic, across-the-board spending cuts.
Those sequestration cuts were never supposed to take effect, but
they did on March 1, because Congress couldn’t agree on a more
rational plan.  Sequestration, though indiscriminate and destructive, looks
enlightened in comparison to what’s happened to the budget this
fall.  Partial Shutdown  The government went into a partial shutdown on Oct. 1, the
start of the fiscal year, because Congress failed to pass either
a 2014 budget or a continuing resolution to keep spending going
at last fiscal year’s levels.  That has reduced spending below sequestration levels while
wreaking havoc on everything from Head Start to collection of
delinquent taxes. It’s cut the economy’s annualized growth rate
by 0.1 percent for each week it’s lasted, although presumably
most of the lost output will be recovered via catch-up spending
and back pay.  Things could get worse. Failure to raise the debt ceiling
either now or in the future would limit the government to
spending only what comes in. The country would have instant
budget balance -- and, most likely, an instant recession.  Decision-makers in business are worried, and it’s crimping
their hiring, according to a survey by CEB, a business advisory
firm formerly known as the Corporate Executive Board.  Says Executive Director Michael Griffin: “It’s like
bringing a caged bear into the boardroom. Even if you’re
confident that it’s not going to escape, it’s hard to ignore it
and go on with your plans.”  Tax Win  While the downward spending ratchet gets most of the
attention, the Tea Party has won on  taxes , too -- insisting
successfully that  deficit reduction  should come from lower
spending, not higher revenue. In 2010, Obama agreed to
temporarily extend the Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2003. The
justification at the time was that they were a kind of stimulus,
albeit one benefiting the rich.  Last winter, under heavy pressure from Republicans, Obama
signed a law making permanent most of the Bush tax cuts except
those for individuals with taxable incomes over $400,000. The
bill also ended the payroll tax holiday, which was always
intended to be temporary and in any case was of less value to
the wealthy.  Off Agenda  Obama has barely broached tax increases since; vociferous
Tea Party opposition could have pushed them off the agenda.  Fiscal policy is probably subtracting 1.5 percentage points
from the economy’s growth rate in 2013, taking into account this
year’s spending cuts and higher taxes, estimates Zandi of
Moody’s Analytics.  The  Federal Reserve  can’t offset the harm by cutting
 interest rates  because the federal funds rate is already at
zero. So the economy is expected to grow only about 1.5 percent
this year, barely above stall speed.  “At stall speed,” Zandi says, “job growth is no longer
sufficient to forestall an increase in unemployment. As soon as
unemployment ticks higher, you’re in recession. You’re in a
vicious cycle down.”  He says the  U.S. economy  should avoid that fate -- unless
Congress stumbles into a default at some point: “The minute
Treasury doesn’t pay someone, we’ve opened Pandora’s box.”  Trust Breakdown  Fiscal policy wouldn’t look like this if the key players in
Washington trusted one another more.  Tea Partiers insist on “front-loading” cuts in
discretionary spending disregarding the harm to a still-recovering economy -- and to the fabric of government -- because
they don’t trust others’ commitments to cut  entitlement  spending
at some point in the future.  The breakdown in trust is tragic because pivoting toward
long-run entitlement changes really would be better for all
concerned.  “We’ve drifted into this environment where we have these
calendar-created crises,” says Prakken of Macroeconomic
Advisers. “It’s nobody’s idea of the best way to do things.”  Prakken, a hawk on long-term  deficits , backs the idea of a
gradual, long-term deal.  “It would be wonderful, would it not, if our elected
officials announced some grand bargain that seemed credible,
realistic, with enforcement mechanisms that make it very
difficult for future regimes to overturn,” he muses. “Maybe
coupled with fundamental  tax reform  and higher revenues.
Implemented over 30 years with very little fiscal drag created -
- that would be a wonderful outcome.”  Belt-Tightening  He’s right. The federal government really does need to
tighten its belt eventually, though not with the scale and
immediacy the Tea Party insists on.  Tea Partiers are in no mood for nuance. They fear that the
Republic is in danger from wily liberals who are skilled in the
art of brinkmanship.  Democrats are “very good at this. We’re obviously very bad
at it,” Michael Needham, chief executive officer of  Heritage
Action for America , the political arm of the conservative
 Heritage Foundation , told the Wall Street Journal this month.  In fact, the Tea Party is all too good at brinkmanship. The
true believers are winning their battles in Washington. It’s the
rest of the country that continues to lose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Coy in  New York  at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romesh Ratnesar at 
 rratnesar@bloomberg.net  