-- Lehman Australia Creditors Approve Insurance Payment Plan
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-10-17T03:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/lehman-australia-creditors-approve-insurance-payment-plan.html
Creditors of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s Australian unit approved an insurance payment
plan allowing them to recover about $48 million of investment
losses.  U.S. insurers agreed to provide $45 million and an
Australian insurer A$3 million ($2.8 million) under the
proposal, PPB Advisory, liquidators of Lehman Brothers  Australia 
Ltd., said in an e-mailed statement today. The payout was on the
condition that creditors release the insurers from any future
claims.  The settlement “avoids protracted and risky litigation in
a foreign jurisdiction,” PPB said in the statement.  The approval of the insurance plan will also allow the
liquidators to move forward on settlement talks on a class
action lawsuit, PPB Advisory said. The Lehman unit was found
liable last year for losses incurred by three Australian towns
that bought failed securities. The towns represented dozens of
other local governments, charities and churches that also relied
on Lehman’s advice.  “Previous attempts to settle have been problematic due to
the risk of jeopardizing insurance recoveries,” PPB Advisory
said. “Now that creditors have agreed to the insurance
settlement, there is a strong expectation of settlement of the
class action and a distribution to creditors in early 2014.”  Lehman Brothers Australia appointed a voluntary
administrator under the country’s bankruptcy laws on Sept. 26,
2008, after Lehman Brothers Holdings filed for bankruptcy. The
company, then the fourth-largest investment bank in the world,
had $613 billion in debt, making it the biggest bankruptcy in
U.S. history.  ‘Deceptive Conduct’  The Australian unit has assets of between A$297 million and
A$303 million and creditors are owed between A$596 million and
A$654 million, according to litigation funder IMF (Australia)
Ltd. IMF’s clients are owed A$143.5 million, it said.  The Lehman unit “engaged in misleading and deceptive
conduct” in investing the towns’ money in synthetic
collateralized debt obligations whose value collapsed along with
the U.S. housing market, Federal Court Justice Steven Rares said
when he ruled in September last year that the unit was liable
for the towns’ losses.  The case is In the matter of Lehman Brothers Australia Ltd.
(In Liquidation). NSD622/2013. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  