-- Heineken Takes Nespresso-Like Shot With Designer Home Beer Keg
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-10-17T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/heineken-takes-nespresso-like-shot-with-designer-home-beer-keg.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-biggest brewer, is taking a leaf from Nespresso owner  Nestle
SA (NESN) ’s book by offering a beer-making machine for drinkers who
want a freshly pulled pint at home.  The Sub, shaped like a beer barrel on its side, was
unveiled tonight in Paris and will be rolled out in Italy and
France early next year, the company said today. The device is
loaded with replaceable two-liter Torps of beer -- like a
Nespresso cafe capsule -- that can be kept in the refrigerator.  Heineken is seeking to attract urban, gadget-conscious men
looking to trade up from a can of beer at home, Francois-Xavier Mahot, senior director for global innovation, said today at a
meeting in Paris. The Sub will retail at 249 euros ($340), with
Torp refills available at 6 euros to 8 euros, the company said.  “If you go to the bar, is it acceptable if a waiter opens
a can and gives it to you? That’s not O.K., it’s not
sophisticated,” Mahot said. Having freshly poured beer -- each
Torp stays fresh for 15 days in the device, which keeps it
chilled -- will also impress friends, he said.  Heineken is among brewers seeking to edge sales in western
 Europe  back into growth amid strong competition from spirits,
craft beers and wine as the euro-region economy stagnates. The
company said in August it expected earnings this year wouldn’t
grow as drinkers cut spending across the region and poor spring
weather held back purchases. First-half volume fell 3 percent,
led by an 8 percent decline in western Europe.  Reviving Beer  Heineken, based in Amsterdam, is seeking to get 6 percent
of sales a year from new products. Competitors are also trying
to revive flat-lining beer brands with new products, such as
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s new Bud Light Platinum product
introduced last year. Heineken’s also been creating new
packaging, like light-up bottles.  As well as Heineken refills for the Sub, drinkers can buy
more local brands including Desperados in France and Amstel in
the Netherlands, where the device will be introduced “very
soon,” Mahot said. Refills will be available in shops and
online with membership of the sub club potentially leading to
benefits, echoing the strategy at Nespresso, one of Nestle’s
fastest-growing brands.  Heineken wouldn’t comment on how much was spent on the
machine, which was three years in the making, saying only it was
a “big” investment.  Craft Brewers  “They’ve had all these interesting ideas but they haven’t
been proven before to be enough to shift the tide away from the
decline they’ve been facing at the hands of the craft brewers,”
Spiros Malandrakis, an analyst at Euromonitor, said. “I wonder
how successful it’ll be with millennials who don’t have that
much money and are skeptical.”  It’s not the first time Heineken’s tried an at-home beer
system. It introduced BeerTender in 2004 and the DraughtKeg in
2005, and competitor AB InBev also introduced a similar product
in 2004, Draftmark. Heineken says it’s learned from its
experiences -- BeerTender has been very successful in  France ,
Mahot said without revealing any numbers, and will also benefit
from being smaller, at two liters not five.  Heineken is answering to the needs of consumers that want a
fresher, classier beer at home, the company said. Sub owners
should see the device as a display item like an expensive coffee
machine, said designer Marc Newson.  “This isn’t a product you want to put in a cupboard and
hide away like a vacuum cleaner,” Newsom said. “Men love
gadgets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  