-- Telecom Italia Holder Findim Seeks to Oust Telefonica From Board
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-10-17T11:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/telecom-italia-holder-findim-seeks-to-oust-telefonica-from-board.html
Directors representing  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT) ’s biggest owner have interests that may conflict with
the foundering carrier’s recovery strategy and should be
removed, according to the No. 3 shareholder.  Assets that Telefonica SA -- the biggest investor in a
holding company with 22.45 percent of the Milan-based carrier --
has in  Latin America  could influence its representatives on the
board when debating what to do with Telecom Italia’s assets in
the region, Findim Group SA said in a statement.  Telefonica’s “strong presence” in Brazil and  Argentina 
make its Telecom Italia board seats “particularly delicate,”
said Findim, the Fossati family’s investment company.  Franco Bernabe stepped down as chief executive officer of
 Italy ’s largest phone company this month after clashing with
Telefonica and the other partners in holding company Telco SpA
over whether to pursue a capital increase or sell off stakes in
assets in Latin America. Telecom Italia is seeking at least 9
billion euros ($12 billion) for its controlling stake in
Brazilian mobile carrier  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said this month.  A disposal of Telecom Italia’s 67 percent holding at that
price would value Tim at about $18 billion, a 50 percent premium
to the Rio de Janeiro-based company’s market value based on Oct.
8 closing price. The stake could fetch as much as 10 billion
euros, said the person.  Board Meeting  Findim boosted  its stake  this week to 5.004 percent from
4.999 percent, earning it the right to call a board meeting.
Findim Chairman Marco Fossati said in August that the
shareholder needs to see “a strategic business plan that will
create real value” at Telecom Italia and boost the management’s
credibility.  The next Telecom Italia board meeting is  scheduled  for Nov.
7, when new leader Marco Patuano is set to unveil a business
plan for both domestic and Latin America assets.  A spokesman for Madrid-based Telefonica and a spokesman for
Telecom Italia declined to comment on Findim’s statement.  Telecom Italia shares  fell  0.6 percent to 72 cents at 1:12
p.m. in Milan. They have advanced about 5 percent this year
after eight straight annual declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  