-- TeliaSonera Third-Quarter Profit Rises on Cost Reductions
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-10-17T08:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/teliasonera-third-quarter-profit-rises-on-cost-reductions.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ,  Sweden ’s biggest
phone company, reported a 15 percent increase in third-quarter
profit as restructuring efforts and gains in its Eurasian
operations helped offset declining revenue. The stock rose.  Net income increased to 4.64 billion kronor ($717 million)
from 4.03 billion kronor a year earlier, the company said today.
Analysts  predicted  4.33 billion kronor, the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales dropped 1.8 percent to 25.4 billion
kronor, topping the average estimate of 25.1 billion kronor.  TeliaSonera is adding users in its Eurasian unit, with
operations in  Turkey ,  Russia  and several former Soviet Union
countries, while managing declining  sales  in its home market as
competition and lower fees hurt prices. The Stockholm-based
company, which made more than 60 percent of its revenue in the
Nordic region last year, is also cutting jobs and focusing more
on data revenue to boost profitability.  “The results were good with the Ebitda in Eurasia and in
mobility services beating my estimates,” said  Mikko Ervasti , an
analyst at Evli Bank in Helsinki. “Telia also kept its guidance
which shows they are well diversified despite European
macroeconomic issues.”  TeliaSonera reiterated its full-year  forecasts . It is
predicting that its adjusted earnings margin will improve
“slightly” and that sales will be “flat” excluding currency
swings and acquisitions.  Margin Boost  TeliaSonera rose 3.6 percent to 51.35 kronor at 10:56 a.m.
in  Stockholm , giving the former Swedish telephone monopoly a
market value of 223 billion kronor. The stock had added 12
percent this year through yesterday.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 1.5 percent to 9.42 billion kronor, as costs
including production, selling and administrative expenses
declined 3.2 percent to 19.3 billion kronor. Ebitda as a
percentage of sales widened to 37.1 percent from 35.9 percent.  Its mobile business boosted Ebitda 4.8 percent to 3.83
billion kronor, even as sales dropped 2.1 percent to 12.2
billion kronor because of lower rates from connecting calls from
rivals’ networks, a fee that is regulated. Evli’s Ervasti
projected Ebitda of 3.7 billion kronor.  “Revenues continued to be impacted by difficult economic
environment,” Johan Dennelind, who took over as chief executive
officer last month, said in the statement. “It is crucial to
have an efficient organization and an appropriate cost base.”  In Eurasia, the Ebitda of 2.85 billion kronor exceeded
Ervasti’s projection of 2.6 billion kronor. Revenue in the
region climbed 3.1 percent to 5.29 billion kronor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  