-- Emerging Stocks Rise as Gold Producers Rally on Fed Bets
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-10-17T20:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/emerging-stocks-climb-to-five-month-high-on-u-s-debt-accord.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
third day as gold producers followed the precious metal higher
on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will maintain the pace of
economic stimulus. Brazil’s real climbed to a four-month high.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.3 percent to
1,033.97, after jumping to the highest level in five months
yesterday. AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. and  DRDGold Ltd. (DRD)  drove South
Africa’s benchmark equity index to a record, while the
Philippine Stock Exchange Index led gains among developing-nation gauges. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slumped 1.3 percent as oil
companies plunged. The real strengthened on speculation Brazil’s
central bank will raise its target rate next month.  Gold surged in New York and the  U.S. dollar  tumbled on bets
disruption from the debt-ceiling debate will hamper  growth and
prompt the central bank to delay tapering stimulus. Federal
 Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said the Fed
should not begin reducing the pace of asset purchases as the
data used to gauge the economy’s health stopped during the
government shutdown. President  Barack Obama  signed into law the
measure to fund the American government through Jan. 15, 2014,
and extend U.S. borrowing authority until Feb. 7.  “It’s going to be stimulus, stimulus, stimulus,”  Alan Gayle , senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management, said
by phone from Atlanta, said by phone. His firm oversees about
$48 billion. “It does look like the market fixation on the
government shutdown and debt ceiling is over now, and now it’s
on to the next thing. There’s a growing consensus that tapering
from the Federal Reserve is not likely to happen until March.”  Fund Outflows  The measure for stocks in developing nations has slid as
much as 16 percent since May 22, when the Fed signaled stimulus
could be trimmed if the economy showed sustained improvement.  Global investors withdrew $26 billion from emerging market
bond funds between May 29 and Sept. 18, representing about 10
percent of their total assets, according to Barclays Plc, citing
data from EPFR Global. The funds saw their first inflow in 18
weeks during the five-day period ended Sept. 25, before the
redemptions resumed over the past two weeks through Oct. 9.  Nine out of  10 groups  in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
gained, led by commodity shares. The benchmark gauge for
developing nations has slid 2 percent this year to trade at 10.7
times projected earnings, compared with the  valuation  of 14.2
for the MSCI World Index, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund advanced 0.6 percent to $43.27. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
declined 6.5 percent to 21.75.  Brazil, Russia  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  snapped a six-day rally as steelmaker
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA tumbled. The real gained
on speculation the central bank will raise the target rate to 10
percent next month after minutes of last week’s meeting said the
pace of increases is appropriate.  Russian stocks fell the most among emerging markets as
sliding crude oil pared appetite for shares in the world’s
biggest energy exporter and a technical indicator showed gains
this month were overdone. OAO Gazprom, the natural-gas export
monopoly, and OAO Surgutneftegas, a Russian oil producer,
tumbled more than 1.7 percent.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index rose to the highest
level since at least 1995. The gauge advanced for a sixth day,
the longest winning streak since January 2012.  AngloGold Ashanti 
and DRDGold added at least 2.6 percent.  China Coal  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell to the the lowest level
since Sept. 30. Shanghai Oriental Pearl (Group) Co. and Shanghai
Lujiazui Finance & Trade Zone Development Co. tumbled  after
jumping at least 88 percent over the past two months.  China
Shenhua Energy Co. (601088)  and China Coal Energy Co., the biggest coal
producers, advanced.  India’s The S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  dropped as  Tata Consultancy
Services Ltd. (TCS) , Asia’s largest software exporter by market value,
and HCL Technologies Ltd. fell from records.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) 
slid the most in two months.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index climbed 1.2 percent to
the highest level since Aug. 15. Benchmark gauges in Indonesia,
Malaysia and Thailand also gained.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 319 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  