-- Energy XXI Seeks Southeast Asia Assets Similar to Gulf of Mexico
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-10-17T22:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/energy-xxi-seeks-southeast-asia-assets-similar-to-gulf-of-mexico.html
Energy XXI (Bermuda) Ltd. (EXXI)  is looking
to buy offshore assets in  Southeast Asia  that have similar
geology to the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, where it operates five of
the biggest shallow-water oil fields.  The company has a team evaluating prospects, including in
offshore Malaysia, and hopes to make a purchase in the next 12
to 18 months, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Schiller
said in an interview at the  Bloomberg Link Oil & Gas Conference 
in Houston today.  “When we look around the world, places like Southeast
Asia, the geology’s very similar, the sand’s very similar,”
Schiller said. Major oil companies that operate in the Gulf of
Mexico have previously ventured into Southeast Asia, he said.  Energy XXI, which has its principal office in Houston, has
sought to grow through acquisitions and the use of horizontal
drilling to help boost recovery of oil. The company has more
than 400,000 net acres in the U.S. Gulf and Louisiana, with
average production equivalent to about 47,000 barrels of oil a
day in the quarter that ended June 30.  The company is also seeking to sell some interests in the
Gulf of Mexico where it doesn’t control operations and may trade
some stakes, Schiller said.  Energy XXI has partnerships with such companies as  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Apache Corp. (APA)  and  Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  as it explores around salt domes and in
ultra-deep formations in the Gulf’s shallow waters and onshore.  Davy Jones  That includes being part of the Davy Jones project with
Freeport-McMoRan in the Gulf that’s targeting deep natural gas
deposits. Attempts to conduct a successful flow test at Davy
Jones No. 1 were inconclusive after months of efforts.  The first Davy Jones well may be “tough” to develop as
it’s too deep and the pipeline is too narrow to flow gas,
Schiller said. A second Davy Jones well is scheduled to be
completed starting in December and has a “high probability” of
producing. Other ultra-deep Gulf Coast prospects are
“promising,” he said.  Energy XXI operates five of the top 15 largest Gulf shelf
 oil fields , according to a company slide  presentation  this
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  