-- Lenovo Hesitates on Deals to Avoid Overpaying for Expansion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-17T20:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/lenovo-hesitates-on-deals-to-avoid-overpaying-for-expansion-2-.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , seen as a suitor
for everything from  BlackBerry Ltd. (BBRY)  to  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s server business, said it’s hesitant to make
deals because it wants to avoid overpaying.  “We will not buy for the sake of buying,” Wong Wai Ming,
chief financial officer of the world’s largest personal-computer
maker, said in an interview at the company’s Beijing
headquarters yesterday. “Even when an opportunity, on the face
of it, makes perfect sense for us to do it, it may not happen.”  To counter falling global PC shipments, Lenovo is trying to
spur sales of its mobile devices and push into the market for
storage equipment and servers running corporate networks. With
$3.1 billion in cash at the end of June, Chief Executive Officer
 Yang Yuanqing  has said he’s willing to strengthen new businesses
through acquisitions.  “Lenovo has very prudent matrices when looking at
acquisitions,” Ken Hui, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Jefferies,
said in a phone interview. “They want to make sure, if it’s a
loss-making business, that there is a strong plan to turn losses
into profit, soon.”  Wong said in January that Lenovo was considering a possible
deal with BlackBerry, the Canadian smartphone maker. The
Waterloo, Ontario-based company has struggled to reverse its
fortunes following years of losing market share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone and devices that use Google Inc.’s Android software.  BlackBerry Buyout  After weak sales of the new BlackBerry 10 lineup,
management announced a tentative $4.7 billion buyout deal last
month that would take the company private. Still, it continues
to solicit offers from rival bidders during a go-shop period.  The Wall Street Journal  reported  today that Lenovo has
signed a nondisclosure agreement with BlackBerry that would give
it access to confidential financial information. Lenovo is
actively considering a bid for all of the company, the Journal
reported, citing people familiar with the matter.  Brion Tingler, a U.S.-based spokesman for Lenovo, declined
to comment on the report, as did BlackBerry’s Adam Emery.  Shares of Lenovo fell 1.3 percent to HK$8.21 in  Hong Kong 
today. The stock has gained 17 percent this year, compared with
a 1.9 percent increase in the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .
BlackBerry rose 0.9 percent to $8.20 today in  New York .  IBM Acquisition  Lenovo became the No. 1 PC maker through more than $2
billion in acquisitions in the past eight years. After buying
IBM’s personal-computer division in 2005, Lenovo expanded its
market share in the past two years with purchases including
Essen, Germany-based computer maker  Medion AG (MDN)  and  NEC Corp. (6701) ’s PC
unit in  Japan .  Wong said a large purchase also could be financed through
issuing equity.  “From a financial resources point of view, that’s not an
issue,” Wong said. “There is no hindrance for us.”  The company will be more “proactive” on acquisitions,
Yang said in an August interview, without naming targets. The
company plans to double its share of the market for storage
equipment within three years, and a good acquisition could speed
that process, he said in a June interview.  Smartphones and enterprise computing remain areas Lenovo
wants to expand, Wong said yesterday. He declined to identify
any potential acquisition targets the company has talked with.  Investor Pressure  The company is under investor pressure to execute a deal,
said Stephen Yang, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sun Hung Kai
Financial Ltd. said.  “Lenovo needs to make a deal in the next year, or growth
will suffer post-2015,” Yang said. “They have raised the bar
for shareholder expectations. Everybody is waiting for them to
do something big.”  Lenovo was in talks to buy part of IBM’s server division
until the two sides failed to agree on a price, a person
familiar with the discussions said in May. In an April 19
statement through the Hong Kong stock exchange, Lenovo said it
was in “preliminary” discussions about a potential acquisition
with a third party it didn’t identify.  Lenovo also has approached Taiwan-based  HTC Corp. (2498) , which
recently posted its first quarterly loss, about possible
cooperation including forming a joint venture or a share swap,
the Taipei-based  Apple Daily  reported this month.  Lenovo, which ranked No. 4 in global smartphone shipments
in the second quarter, issued a statement June 4 saying it was
considering a “potential joint-venture transaction” in the
smartphone business.  There are “a lot of opportunities” for acquisitions, Wong
said, without identifying any. The company’s cash on hand and
ability to secure additional funds mean it can consider most
assets, he said.  Lenovo is looking to new products for growth amid slumping
PC demand. Worldwide PC shipments in the third quarter fell 8.6
percent, the sixth consecutive quarterly decline, reaching the
lowest level for the period since 2008, market research firm
Gartner Inc. said this month.  The company said in May it would boost smartphone shipments
to 50 million units this fiscal year from 29 million last year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  