-- Therapy for Hypochondriacs May Help Health Systems Cut Costs
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-10-17T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/therapy-for-hypochondriacs-may-help-health-systems-cut-costs.html
Psychotherapy is an effective
treatment for hypochondria, which may help health services cut
costs because it can be delivered by non-specialists with
minimal training, according to U.K. researchers.  One year after cognitive behavior therapy, twice as many
patients suffering from hypochondria reached normal levels of
health anxiety and depression compared with those receiving
standard care consisting of reassurance and support from
doctors, according to research led by  Peter Tyrer , head of the
Centre for Mental Health at Imperial College London. The study
was published today in the Lancet medical journal.  Effective treatment of hypochondria may help address the
“substantial burden” on health services where doctors perform
unnecessary and expensive diagnostic testing because of fear of
litigation, Tyrer said. Still, the cost-effectiveness of such
therapy is unclear given the presence of multiple emotional
problems observed among outpatients, said Chris Williams of the
University of Glasgow and Allan House of the University of
Leeds.  “To develop multiple parallel services makes no sense,
especially since the common emotional disorders overlap
substantially,” Williams and House said in a comment
accompanying the article. “Treatment should be available in
general hospital settings, in multidisciplinary liaison
psychiatry or clinical health psychology clinics that can deal
with the full range of problems.”  The study, funded by the U.K.’s National Coordinating
Centre for Health Technology Assessment, included 444 patients
attending cardiology, endocrine, gastroenterology, respiratory
and neurology clinics in six U.K. hospitals.  Therapy involved five to 10 sessions delivered by non-experts in cognitive behavior therapy who were trained in two
workshops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  