-- Merkel Ally Says Coalition With SPD to Ease Energy Reform
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-10-17T16:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/merkel-ally-says-coalition-with-spd-to-ease-energy-reform.html
Germany’s chances of easing its
transition to renewable energy are rising as  Chancellor Angela Merkel  negotiates a coalition with the Social Democrats, a
lawmaker from her conservative bloc said.  Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc shares more ground with the Social
Democrats, or SPD, than with the Free Democrats when it comes to
reforming clean-energy legislation, said Georg Nuesslein, energy
spokesman for the CSU faction in parliament. “It will be easier
because the ideological trench warfare won’t be as fierce.”  Merkel’s conservatives and the SPD today agreed to open
formal coalition talks. The chancellor has pledged to reduce the
cost of renewable-energy subsidies, easing the shift to clean
power after deciding to close all nuclear plants. Disagreements
between the CDU and the FDP previously posed obstacles to
reshaping the laws that grant support to wind and solar power.  The SPD backs a CSU proposal to change the way  Germany 
calculates a fee it charges consumers to finance the subsidies,
Nuesslein said today by telephone. The fee has risen more than
fivefold since 2009, helping to make German household power
bills the second-highest in the European Union,  data  from
Eurostat show. It’s set to increase 18 percent next year.  While Merkel’s bloc won’t make retroactive changes to
already promised aid, the government could, for example,
identify locations for new wind farms and then auction off
projects to reduce costs, Nuesslein said. Germany also will need
to set up a capacity market, which pays utilities to guarantee
backup power when renewable output falls short, he said.  In the outgoing government, Environment Minister Peter
Altmaier of Merkel’s CDU and Economy Minister Philipp Roesler of
the FDP repeatedly clashed over aspects of the energy switch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  