-- Merkel Wins Over Social Democrats for Power-Sharing Talks
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   A r n e   D e l f s
-- 2013-10-17T16:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/merkel-wins-over-social-democrats-for-talks-to-form-government.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  and Social
Democratic Party leaders agreed to start official coalition
talks, opening the path to forming  Germany ’s next government.  Negotiations were scheduled to begin Oct. 23, a day after
German lower-house lawmakers reconvene and the day before
Merkel, strengthened by the biggest election victory since
German reunification on Sept. 22, attends a European Union
summit.  The SPD team “has the impression that negotiations make
sense” and there’s “a common foundation” to try and reach a
coalition deal with Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc, SPD
Chairman Sigmar Gabriel said in Berlin today after a third round
of preliminary talks between the two sides.  Almost four weeks after Merkel won a third term in national
elections, Gabriel’s SPD has to show that it’s fighting to
secure at least part of its platform if it joins Merkel as
junior partner to govern  Europe ’s biggest economy. National SPD
delegates meet in Berlin on Oct. 20 to vote on the leadership’s
proposal to begin coalition talks, which will probably take
weeks.  “It became clear that we recognize the challenges Germany
faces over the next four years,” Hermann Groehe, the general
secretary of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , told reporters
separately. “We have sufficient common ground to govern our
country together successfully.”  Alternatives Worse  The SPD will agree to enter into a so-called grand
coalition because alternatives such as new elections would
backfire and cost it votes, said Fredrik Erixon, director of the
European Centre for International Political Economy in Brussels.  “The SPD is being forced into this coalition even if many
people in the party don’t like it,” he said by phone. Yet the
party fears “not clinching an alliance with Merkel even more
than the acute challenges of forming such a coalition.”  Merkel, 59, was left with the SPD as sole negotiating
partner after her bloc and the Greens failed to bridge
differences on tax increases to pay for infrastructure, a Green
demand that Merkel rejected as “poison” for the economy during
her campaign. The SPD, which also campaigned on tax increases,
is demanding a minimum hourly wage of 8.50 euros ($11.62) as a
condition of entering government.  While Gabriel said negotiators didn’t discuss policy
details in the preliminary talks, bargaining is already under
way. A leader in Merkel’s bloc, Bavarian Prime Minister  Horst Seehofer , broke ranks saying he’s ready to take up the SPD’s
minimum-wage demand, which Merkel rejected during her campaign.  Wages, Taxes  Wages and taxes are among the disputes on the table. Merkel
regards her no-new-taxes pledge as one of two red lines in talks
with the SPD, which wants to raise the top income-tax rate to 49
percent from as low as 42 percent. The other taboo is joint
euro-area bonds, with all other topics, including minimum wages,
open to negotiation, according to a person familiar with her
strategy.  As the SPD sticks to its minimum-wage demand, Merkel favors
an industry-by-industry approach through collective bargaining.  Joining a Merkel government “makes no sense” unless that
coalition backs the SPD’s minimum wage concept and better pay
conditions for temporary workers, Thomas Oppermann, the party’s
parliamentary whip, said yesterday.  Cutting a Deal  Merkel’s bloc may be ready to deal. Seehofer, who heads the
Bavarian-based  Christian Social Union  allied with Merkel, said
he could envisage a minimum wage if the SPD dropped its demand
for higher income taxes, the Munich-based Sueddeutsche Zeitung
newspaper cited him as saying in an interview published today.  Heading a so-called grand coalition of the two biggest
parties would be familiar for Merkel, who governed with the
 Social Democrats  in her first term between 2005 and 2009. With
the SPD-led opposition controlling the upper house, it would
also help avoid legislative gridlock.  Merkel’s CDU and the CSU will send a combined 311 members
to the 631-seat Bundestag, with the SPD taking 193 seats. In
2005, when Merkel saw off SPD Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  by a
single percentage point and was forced into a grand coalition
with his party, she took 226 seats to the SPD’s 222 seats.  “Everything will be fine,” Seehofer told reporters after
today’s agreement with the SPD.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  