-- Tesla Using AT&T Service in Cars
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-10-17T23:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/tesla-will-use-at-t-service-in-cars.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car
maker led by billionaire Elon Musk, picked  AT&T (T)  Inc. to provide
high-speed wireless service to its vehicles, giving the carrier
a boost in its effort to expand beyond mobile phones.  All Tesla cars come equipped with AT&T network chips, which
allow two-way connections for services such as roadside
assistance and stolen-vehicle location, the Dallas-based carrier
said today. The Tesla service also includes Internet access,
navigation and entertainment on a 17-inch (43-centimeter) touch
screen. Terms of the agreement weren’t disclosed.  Tesla, which sells its cars directly to consumers at prices
starting at about $70,000, is AT&T’s latest connected-car
partner. In February, AT&T replaced  Verizon Wireless  as OnStar
service provider to  General Motors Co. (GM)  cars beginning with 2015
models. Carmakers and mobile carriers are seeking to extract
more revenue from users while they’re on the road.  “Tesla is the most appealing car to technophiles,” said
 Roger Entner , a wireless-industry strategist with Recon
Analytics LLC in Dedham, Massachusetts. “Connecting cars makes
a tremendous amount of sense.”  AT&T rose less than 1 percent to $34.44 at the close in  New
York . Tesla fell 0.4 percent to $182.80.  Chris Penrose, an AT&T executive in charge of emerging
devices, plans to announce the partnership at an event in  San
Francisco  today. AT&T’s service also could be used to provide
in-car Wi-Fi hot spots, letting anyone in the vehicle connect to
the Internet via mobile devices.  “We’ve been working with AT&T. They’ve been the service
provider for Model S” in North America, said Elizabeth Jarvis-Shean, a spokeswoman for Palo Alto, California-based Tesla. She
declined to comment on cellular or data service changes provided
by AT&T.  Cellular System  “Cars are becoming multimedia entertainment systems and
there’s a lot of money in that,” Entner said.  Unlike conventional cars, Tesla’s Model S receives wireless
programming updates via an installed cellular system to improve
vehicle operations. Such updates typically occur when the car is
recharging overnight.  Navigation, mapping and data functions in the Model S also
rely on the cellular system. Some owners have said the speed of
refreshing  Google Maps  displayed in the car needs an upgrade.  Model S owners such as Douglas Carlisle of Menlo Park,
California, cite cellular speed as one of the few areas in which
the car needs improvement. Tesla doesn’t currently charge data
fees for the installed cellular system.  “At times the map refresh isn’t as smooth as it could be,
so that could get better,” Carlisle said in a July interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  