-- Metro AG Confident of Christmas as Sales Match Estimates
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-10-17T08:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/metro-ag-confident-of-christmas-as-sales-match-estimates.html
Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s biggest
retailer, said it’s “confident” about Christmas business after
increased electronics sales in its home market reporting helped
nine-month revenue meet analysts’ estimates.  Sales fell 2.2 percent from a year earlier to 46.3 billion
euros ($62.7 billion) in a nine-month transitional financial
year ended Sept. 30, Dusseldorf-based Metro said today in a
statement. The average estimate of 12 analysts was 46.4 billion
euros.  “We are well prepared and confident for the upcoming
Christmas trading period” before the Dec. 25 holiday, Chief
Executive Officer Olaf Koch said in the statement. “We have
become more relevant to our customers at every division, and
grew our market share sustainably in many relevant markets.”  German  consumer confidence  is at the highest level since
2007 as unemployment is near a two-decade low. The Frankfurt-based Bundesbank predicts that gross domestic product growth
will accelerate in 2014 to 1.5 percent from 0.3 percent in 2013.
The final three months of the calendar year account for more
than 60 percent of Metro’s annual profit, John Kershaw, a
London-based analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said in an e-mail.  Metro  rose  as much as 1.6 percent to 33.45 euros and was
trading up 0.1 percent at 10:02 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has
gained 57 percent this year.  Lineup Shifts  Koch has focused investments on the Cash & Carry wholesale
business and Media-Saturn household-electronics chain, which
together account for almost 80 percent of Metro’s revenue, while
 divesting  other businesses. The retailer stopped selling
underperforming non-food articles at Cash & Carry and worked on
improving the lineup and prices at Media-Saturn while increasing
online sales at the unit.  Metro’s disposals since mid-2012 have included Real
hypermarkets in eastern  Europe , which were sold to Groupe Auchan
SA, and the Makro wholesale business in the U.K., which was
acquired by Booker Group Plc. Koch reiterated in August that
Metro’s strategy still includes selling the Kaufhof department-store chain.  Meeting Forecast  Earnings before interest, taxes and special items in the
shortened financial year probably met the company’s  forecast  of
“slightly” exceeding the nine-month 2012 level of 706 million
euros, Metro said. The retailer is scheduled report fiscal-2013
earnings in December.  “That guidance has been reiterated is no surprise, given
management’s continued more positive tone,” Exane analyst
Kershaw said.  Following the truncated fiscal year, Metro now operates on
a 12-month October-to-September reporting period. The retailer’s
shareholders agreed to the shift at the annual meeting in May
2012.  Revenue at Cash & Carry declined 2 percent to 22.6 billion
euros because of negative currency effects in  Russia ,  Turkey ,
 India  and  Japan . Sales at Media-Saturn gained 0.6 percent to
14.4 billion euros as like-for-like sales grew in Germany,
making up for a “challenging” market in southern Europe.  Sales adjusted for portfolio changes and currency effects
gained 0.9 percent in the short financial year, Metro said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  