-- Europe’s Top Hotel Says Glut to Thwart Revival: Corporate India
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-10-18T10:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/europe-s-top-hotel-says-glut-to-thwart-revival-corporate-india.html
A supply glut in  India ’s hotel
market is preventing an industry revival in the country after
average revenue per room fell to a three-year low, according to
 Accor SA (AC) ,  Europe ’s largest hotel operator.  A key performance gauge, calculated by multiplying a
hotel’s average daily room rate by its occupancy, dropped to the
least since at least 2010 in the quarter through June, according
to data provided by Cushman & Wakefield Inc. In contrast, that
metric has risen in the developed markets of Europe and the
U.S., said Michael Issenberg, Accor’s chairman for Asia-Pacific.  “The next couple of years will be pretty challenging in
India as there has been a fair amount of supply,” and more
hotels are being built over the next two years, Issenberg said
in an interview in  Singapore .  ITC Ltd. (ITC) , Asia’s second-biggest cigarette maker by market
value,  Indian Hotels Co. (IH) , the owner of the Taj chain, are among
operators pressing ahead with their expansion plans, undeterred
by the worst economic slowdown in a decade. The number of rooms
in India’s top eight cities is set to increase 19 percent this
year from 73,000, according to Cushman’s estimates.  Saving Costs  Revenue per room fell 9.4 percent to 3,143 rupees ($51) in
the second quarter from the previous three months, data from the
property broker showed. The decline is primarily due to the slow
recovery in demand and the pace of addition to rooms, Akshay
Kulkarni, regional director for hospitality at Cushman said.  “The short-term outlook for the industry is a bit
challenging with economic and political issues in the backdrop
of a slow global economy,” Kulkarni said. “Additionally,
travel in the corporate segment seems to be wary as companies
are focused on saving costs.”  Supply outstripped demand by 41 percent as of 2012, and the
estimate for 2016 is 39 percent, data from Cushman showed.  Shares of Indian Hotels, controlled by Tata Sons Ltd., and
 EIH Ltd. (EIH) , the owner of the Oberoi brand of hotels, have halved
in the past three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Indian Hotels slid 1.3 percent to 49.65 rupees at the
close of trading in  Mumbai , while EIH rose 1.7 percent to 55.55
rupees.  No Scope  Indian Hotels reported its first annual loss since at least
1997 in the year ended March 31 as sales growth slowed to the
least in three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
EIH had its smallest profit since 2005.  “I don’t see any scope for room-rate increases over the
next couple of years,” said Sumant Kumar, an analyst with Elara
Securities (India) Pvt. in Mumbai. “There’s an oversupply in
this space and demand is not picking up as corporate side
expenditure is muted given the economic scenario.”  India’s $1.8 trillion economy  expanded  5 percent last
fiscal year, the slowest pace since 2003, as companies and
businesses curtailed travel budgets. Average occupancy rates at
hotels in eight Indian cities fell to 55.3 percent in the
quarter ended June from 60.6 percent in 2010, data from  Cushman
& Wakefield  showed.  Slowing economic growth hasn’t discouraged the operators
from betting on India’s potential. Accor, which has started a
three-year reorganization plan that includes increasing its
focus on  emerging markets , is betting on India’s middle class,
which is forecast to add the equivalent of more than the entire
population of  Germany  in less than a decade.  Middle Class  Between 2010 and 2021, India’s emerging middle class -- who
earn as much as $5,550 a year -- will swell by 100 million to
570 million, PricewaterhouseCoopers  estimated  in June 2012.  Paris-based  Accor , which has 23 percent of its hotels in
Asia, considers India as one of its three strongest growing
markets over the longer term after  China  and  Indonesia ,
Issenberg said. More than half the hotels it will build will be
in  Asia , he said.  “Hotels are a consumer item, it’s a discretionary spend,”
Issenberg said. “As the middle class continues to grow in Asia,
travel will continue to grow and grow faster than GDP.”  Nakul Anand, chief executive of ITC’s hospitality business,
said in July that the operator is developing at least 18
projects. Indian Hotels opened two new hotels since April,
adding 175 rooms, according to an Aug. 12 company presentation.
It plans to add 1,575 rooms by March 2014 and an additional
1,553 in the next fiscal year, it said at the time.  Keeping Up  India has 200,000 rooms versus 5 million in the U.S., which
has a smaller population, and 3 million in China, according to
Indian Hotels Managing Director Raymond Bickson.  Accor has over 455,985 rooms at more than 3,555 hotels in
92 countries, according to its website. Its brands include
Sofitel, Pullman, MGallery, Grand Mercure, the Novotel, and
Ibis. With 22 hotels in India, including properties in the
cities of Mumbai and  New Delhi , it plans to add 30 more over the
next three years, and will focus on building hotels in the
economy and mid-scale segment in India, Issenberg said.  First-half profit at the Paris-based company fell 6.6
percent, spurring a revamp plan that includes reducing debt,
cutting costs and selling some properties, besides the focus on
emerging markets.  “We are confident that the demand will continue to grow in
Asia,” Issenberg said. “In the medium to long term scenario,
Asia is still the place to be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  