-- European Dark Pool Trading Surges 45% to Record High
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-10-17T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/european-dark-pool-trading-surges-45-to-record-high.html
European equity trading handled with
private markets known as dark pools surged 45 percent during the
past two quarters from a year earlier to reach a record,
according to  Fidessa Group Plc. (FDSA)   The value of stock traded at dark pools tracked by Fidessa
totaled 207 billion euros ($281 billion) in the six-month period
that ended in September, up from 143 billion euros a year
earlier, the data show. The 45 percent increase compares with an
only 2 percent gain in the total value of equity changing hands
on all European platforms, according to Fidessa, a Woking,
England-based developer of financial trading software.  Owners of public exchanges are losing market share to dark
pools as traders take refuge from computer-driven firms, which
seek to trade in front of the largest investors.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , owners of American and European stock
exchanges, have asked the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to consider limits on dark-pool trading.  “The dark is getting darker,” Steve Grob, Fidessa’s
global director of group strategy, said in an interview.
“Volumes are rising as investors try to avoid information
leakage. They also think they can get a better price in the dark
rather than on a lit venue.”  In the U.S., the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
issued a proposal requiring private venues including dark pools
to release more data, including weekly volume reports and
disclosures on how much trading of each stock they handle.  Dark pools, which don’t publish bids or offers on shares,
were created to let large investors trade big blocks without
having news of their orders move the price.  “With no significant increase in the number of stocks
traded in the dark, the growth in value was due to more of the
same stocks being traded on dark venues,” Grob said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  