-- Ex-Goldman Sachs Partner Jane Chwick Named to MarketAxess Board
-- B y   F a n n i   K o s z e g
-- 2013-10-17T16:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/ex-goldman-sachs-partner-jane-chwick-named-to-marketaxess-board.html
MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX) , the owner
of an electronic bond and derivatives-trading system, appointed
ex-Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner Jane Chwick to its board.  Chwick, who was co-chief operating officer of technology at
Goldman Sachs, is now an advisory director at the firm, New
York-based MarketAxess said today in a statement. Chwick was
listed as a full partner at Goldman Sachs in an October 2012
filing. Advisory directors typically are former partners who are
no longer employees.  Electronic bond trading is gaining momentum as new
regulations curbing risk prompt banks to trim inventories of
corporate debt, reducing their willingness to act as middlemen
between buyers and sellers. Firms including Deutsche Bank AG and
Goldman Sachs are designing systems to accommodate the shift.
MarketAxess and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  said in April they were creating
an alliance for a unified bond-trading platform.  “MarketAxess has been at the forefront of market-structure
changes in fixed income for well over a decade and today we are
at a critical juncture in the evolution of these markets,”
Chwick said in the statement.  Investment-grade bond volume on the company’s electronic
system are on pace to exceed $400 billion in 2013 after surging
45 percent to $44 billion in September from a year earlier, data
from the company show.  Chwick joined Goldman Sachs in 1983 as a programmer and
held senior positions including global head of technology for
fixed income, currencies and commodities, and global head of
technology for the securities division, according to the
statement.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News ,
competes with MarketAxess to provide electronic-trading systems
for fixed-income markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fanni Koszeg in  New York  at 
 fkoszeg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  