-- Ex-Players Oppose NFL Properties’ Image Rights Settlement
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2013-10-17T22:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/ex-players-oppose-nfl-properties-image-rights-settlement.html
Years away from the field, former
National Football League players including  Jim Brown , Preston
Pearson and Reggie Rucker clashed in court with retirees Mark Gastineau, Dan Pastorini, Dave Casper and others.  At stake is the $50 million settlement of a 2009 lawsuit
against the NFL, which the players said made money from using
their images in marketing without sharing it with them.  U.S. District Judge Paul A. Magnuson in April tentatively
approved an agreement under which an agency would be created to
handle ex-player image licensing and the league would pay
$42 million into a “Common Good Fund,” administered by
retirees for their peers, plus $8 million to defray legal
expenses.  Magnuson was asked today to grant final approval to that
deal, over objections it doesn’t put money directly into
players’ hands, in a federal court hearing in  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota .  Plaintiffs’ lead settlement counsel “has not explained one
defined benefit that any individual class member will receive
because there is no evidence that any class member will receive
any benefit at all,” lawyers for ex-Houston Oilers quarterback
Pastorini and others said court papers.  Players Divided  The rift among former players has divided Pastorini, former
Minnesota Vikings players Jim Marshall and Joe Senser and other
named plaintiffs in the litigation from those who support the
accord, including ex-Dallas Cowboys running back Pearson and
former Cleveland Browns players Rucker and Brown.  Nobody has valued the rights players are being asked to
surrender, settlement opponent lawyer Michael Ciresi told
Magnuson today.  “They are giving up their rights and at the end of the day
most of them will get nothing,” he said. “People are giving up
a property right. Now, either you get something for that or you
don’t.”  Dan Gustafson, lead lawyer for the deal proponents,
disagreed.  “It’s just factually wrong to say that this money is not
going to benefit the retired players,” Gustafson told the
judge. “Everybody who ever played in the NFL may some day need
a hand up from the Common Good Fund. And every single player who
ever played in the NFL may be used in advertisements.”  ‘Strong Feelings’  That there’s dissension over the accord should not be
surprising, he said. “There were very strong feelings about
it.”  Defending the deal in an Oct. 4 court filing, the attorney
said the most important factor is how the settlement benefits
compare to the strength of the players’ claims.  “The settlement’s combination of the Common Good Fund and
the Licensing Agency thoughtfully addresses the interests of all
class members, not just those who may have more valuable claims,
but also those whose claims -- although less valuable -- may
have greater individual needs,” Gustafson said.  Absent an accord, the players risked losing the case
outright at trial, he said, citing potential NFL defenses
including consent and that the retirees had simply waited too
long to assert their claims.  The NFL is standing by its accord, a spokesman for the
league,  Brian McCarthy , said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “The settlement will benefit the large class of retired
players, particularly those in need of medical and financial
assistance,” McCarthy said. “This settlement that was
negotiated under the close supervision of the court is fair and
reasonable.”  ‘Horrendous Problems’  While Magnuson heard about 90 minutes of argument, he
didn’t issue a ruling today. He expressed concern about players
whose careers began in high school or college and who are
unprepared for life after football.  “They have horrendous problems and they need an assist,”
Magnuson said. “What I’ve not heard today is anything about
those unfortunate souls.”  Former New York Jets defensive linemen Gastineau and Abdul
Salaam, once members of the four-man unit nicknamed the  New York 
Sack Exchange for its skill in going after quarterbacks, are
together in opposing the accord. At the hearing, attorney Eric
Lechtzin spoke on their behalf.  “The NFL has used its film of their careers numerous
times,” he said. “The NFL has never disclosed the value of
that film.”  More than 25,000 settlement notices were mailed to retired
players or their known and potential heirs, according to a court
filing. Ads were placed in People magazine and Reader’s Digest
and broadcast on radio and NFL Network television.  Exclusion Requests  More than 2,100 requests for exclusion were filed by
players including former Atlanta Falcons quarterback Steve
Bartkowski, one-time Baltimore Colts receiver Raymond Berry, New
York Giants defensive back Beasley Reece and Kansas City Chiefs
place kicker Jan Stenerud, according to that filing.  Among those joining former Oakland Raider Casper, Pastorini
and the other objectors are ex-Jets and Giants place kicker Raul
Allegre and Colts punter Rohn Stark.  The accord was collaterally attacked in two subsequent
lawsuits, one filed by  Pro Football Hall of Fame  members Curley
Culp, John Riggins and Casper, and another filed by the estate
of one-time Raider Jack Tatum. Both were dismissed by Magnuson
last month.  The judge said they violated his April 8 preliminary
approval order, which prohibited the filing of new cases while
final approval of the settlement was still pending.  The ex-players have filed papers stating their intention to
appeal that ruling.  “It is time, finally, to let the opt-outs go their own way
and litigate their cases,” lawyers for Culp and Riggins said in
an Oct. 14 filing with Magnuson. “NFL’s proposed class action
settlement has proven to be unpalatable to a wide swath of
former NFL players.”  John King, an attorney for Culp told Magnuson today,
“there is an almost punitive aspect here.”  The case is Dryer v.  National Football League , 09-cv-02182,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net ; 
Beth Hawkins in St. Paul, Minnesota, at  bhawkins16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  