-- Fantex Offering Stake in Texans’ Arian Foster Starting at $10
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-10-17T14:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/fantex-offering-stake-in-texans-arian-foster-starting-at-10.html
Beyond Las Vegas sportsbooks and
fantasy football leagues, Fantex Inc. is offering a new way to
bet on professional athletes -- starting with the  National
Football League ’s  Arian Foster .  The company filed to raise $10.6 million in an initial
public offering priced at $10 a share, according to a regulatory
filing today. Fantex’s main source of income is Foster, a
running back for the Houston Texans who has pledged 20 percent
of the money he earns both inside and outside the NFL to the
company in exchange for most of the proceeds of the IPO.  San Francisco-based Fantex, led by Chief Executive Officer
Cornell “Buck” French, plans to make similar agreements with
other professional athletes. Foster, 27, is in the second year
of a five-year contract with the Texans, where he’s eligible to
receive a salary of as much as $23.5 million through the 2016
season, the filing shows.  Foster currently has endorsement contracts with companies
such as  Under Armour Inc. (UA)  and Kroger Co. The  Pro Bowl  running
back also recently acquired an undisclosed stake in Health
Warrior Inc., the closely held nutrition company known for its
chia bars.  In his fifth NFL season, Foster has 531 yards on 117
carries, with another 183 yards on 22 catches, and has scored
two touchdowns. Foster has rushed for a career total of 5,052
yards for the Texans, who are 2-4 this season.  Fantex Brokerage Services LLC is managing the offering
along with Stifel Financial Corp. No investor will be allowed to
purchase or hold more than 1 percent of any series of common
stock issued by the company, the filing shows. Orders for the
stock will be posted and executed by Fantex’s brokerage’s
alternative trading system, and the shares won’t be listed on
the  New York  Stock Exchange nor the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  