-- Fault Lines Fracture Rebalanced World Economy: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-10-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/fault-lines-fracture-rebalanced-world-economy-cutting-research.html
The rebalancing of global demand
following the financial crisis may mask fault lines that still
threaten the world economy, according to HSBC Holdings Plc and
Deutsche Bank AG.  The international economy’s overreliance on U.S. consumer
demand and Chinese exports were among imbalances policy makers
later said helped fuel the turmoil of 2008. By leading to a
misalignment of currencies and leverage, they threw the world
out of kilter, paving the way for its deepest recession since
World War II.  While there are some signs the global economy is now on a
more even keel, there may be reasons to worry about how that
shift occurred and how sustainable it is, according to separate
studies published recently by Stephen King at HSBC and Deutsche
Bank’s Thomas Mayer and Markus Jaeger.  Chief Economist King found that the countries experiencing
the biggest improvements in their  current accounts  did so not
because of the targeted export growth, but because of fewer
imports. In Spain, for example, the current account -- the
broadest measure of trade because it includes investment --
improved 8.9 percentage points as a share of GDP between 2007
and 2012. While exports rose an annual average 2 percent over
that period, they were outpaced by a 3 percent decline in
imports.  Elsewhere, deteriorating current accounts were driven as
much or more by slowdowns in exports as by increases in imports
-- a more desirable cause. So China’s export growth weakened
from an annual average of 30 percent between 2002 and 2007 to 12
percent in the subsequent five years, which almost offsets  the
15 percent annual gain in imports.  This amounts to what King calls a “recessionary
rebalancing,” which, as he told an Oct. 16 HSBC investment
conference in  London , poses threats to the economic outlook.
That’s because the drivers have been dwindling demand for
emerging market exports, easy monetary policy in the West and a
failure by some economies to improve their competitiveness.  Equally bleak are Mayer and Jaeger of Deutsche. They
outlined in an Oct. 9 report how current account disparities
endure, albeit at lower levels. While the aggregate surplus of
emerging markets is down from $676 billion in 2008, it remains
at $300 billion this year. The deficit of advanced countries
fell to $50 billion from $479 billion.  The problem is such aggregate shifts cover up weaknesses
within trade, according to Mayer and Jaeger. The deficit in the
U.S. has increased by about one-quarter since falling to less
than $400 billion in 2009. The euro area’s surplus has climbed
to a record $300 billion. Although  China ’s surplus has declined,
the likes of  India ,  Brazil  and  Turkey  have seen their shortfalls
remain relatively large, Deutsche said.  “The persistence of current account imbalances suggests
that the present recovery is more fragile than generally
perceived,” said Mayer and Jaeger. “A disruption of
international capital flows needed for the funding of current
account imbalances could induce a relapse into financial
crisis.”  If the U.S. remains reliant on consumer demand and emerging
markets find continued support from capital flows, then central
banks such as the Federal Reserve will be reluctant to reduce
monetary stimulus quickly for fear of roiling financial markets
and trampling the economic recovery, they said.  * * *  Emerging markets  have become more important trading
partners for the U.S. than are developed nations.  Since the global financial crisis began brewing in 2007,
there has been a “consistent” shift of U.S. trade from rich
countries to poor ones, according to a  study  by the Federal
Reserve Bank of St. Louis.  Over that period, two of the poorest major U.S. trade
partners, Mexico and China, increased their importance as import
sources and even more as destinations of exports, economist
Alexander Monge-Naranjo wrote in a study published last month.
By contrast,  Canada ,  Japan , Germany, the U.K. and  France  lost
some of their importance as providers and purchasers of goods.  A principal explanation stems from how economies fared
during the great recession. Per-capita income grew more in China
and  Mexico  than it did in the U.S., suggesting the economic
slump was “mostly a rich country phenomenon,” said Monge-Naranjo.  * * *  Income inequality in developed economies has been
aggravated by what people can afford to put in their shopping
basket, according to a UBS AG report.  “The goods purchased by lower income groups have tended to
experience faster price increases than the goods purchased by
higher income groups,” Paul Donovan, managing director for
Global Economics, said in an Oct. 9 report to clients.  That’s because low-income households spend more on food and
energy than do those with higher pay. In the U.S., for example,
the top 20 percent of income distribution spends less than 8
percent of their household budget on food, while the bottom 20
percent spends over 12 percent.  This matters because, while the recent financial crisis and
recession reduced demand and prices for consumer products, it
didn’t have as big an impact on commodity prices, said Donovan.  The result since 2008 has been a 0.5 percent difference in
inflation rates for those in the bottom 20 percent of income
distribution, versus price increases faced by the top 20 percent
of earners across 13 countries.  “This has meant that almost universally across developed
economies the economic downturn meant that it was more expensive
to be poor than to be higher-income, and as a result inflation
inequality persisted,” said Donovan.  * * *  Americans over the age of 50 will have a $13.5 trillion
impact on the economy in two decades’ time, almost twice their
effect of today.  In a report on what they call the  “Longevity Economy,” 
sponsored by sponsored by the Washington-based older-American
advocacy group  AARP , Oxford Economics analysts calculated that
over-50s currently spend $4.6 trillion a year. This in turn
feeds through the economy, creating $7.1 trillion of economic
support in total. That’s equivalent to 46 percent of gross
domestic product and bigger than the economy of any nation with
the exception of the U.S. and China.  Part of the reason it will climb past half of GDP is that
the labor force participation rate of over-50s will rise from
41.6 percent today to 43 percent by 2020. If the participation
rate increases another 2.5 percentage points, that would add
$103 billion to potential output by 2020.  Spending on health, education and recreation are the
spending categories set to grow the fastest, the Oct. 10 report
said.  * * *  People experience the pain of losing money more intensely
than the joy of earning more.  A  University of Stirling  study published by Psychological
Science this week found that we aren’t happier than our
grandparents despite gains in living standards over the past 50
years.  The reason, according to the research led by Christopher
Boyce of the Scottish university, is that the psychological
benefits from income increases are wiped out by income losses
even if the pay cuts are smaller.  The study was based on data gathered from 20,000 people in
the U.K. and 30,000 in  Germany  over the past nine years. “Both
individuals and societal well-being may be best served by small
and stable income increases even if such stability impairs long-term income growth,” said Boyce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  