-- Fed’s Fisher Says Fiscal ‘Ineptitude’ Erodes Faith in U.S. Debt
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-10-17T11:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/fed-s-fisher-says-fiscal-ineptitude-erodes-faith-in-u-s-debt.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  called on Congress and the White House
to bring an end to “fiscal ineptitude,” warning that investors
may lose faith in  U.S. debt .  Congressional leaders and President  Barack Obama  should
overcome partisanship and adopt a sound federal budget that
would prompt companies to take advantage of low borrowing costs
created by the Fed’s record accommodation, Fisher, 64, said
today in the text of a  speech  to the  Economic Club of New York .
He will hold a monetary policy vote next year.  “The  bond market  is beginning to show us the back of its
hand,” he said. “The only way for us to achieve sound footing
is for our fiscal leaders to make politically disagreeable
decisions.”  A deadlock among lawmakers over the  federal budget  led to a
partial government shutdown for more than two weeks and brought
the U.S. close to a debt default before a bipartisan agreement
yesterday.  Following announcement of the agreement,  one-month  Treasury
rates fell 21 basis points to 0.14 percent after touching 0.45
percent, the highest since October 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark  10-year note yield  fell six
basis points to 2.67 percent, Bloomberg Bond Trader data show.  “The nightmare of fiscal indecision and political
chicanery that emanates from Washington” reduces the
government’s credibility and dilutes Fed stimulus, Fisher said.
“Kicking the can down the road for a few months will not solve
the pathology of fiscal misfeasance that undermines our economy
and threatens our future.”  Economic ‘Blight’  While the Fed “will take all appropriate measures” to
ensure market functioning and stability in periods of stress,
even asset purchases pushing up the central bank’s balance sheet
toward  $4 trillion  can’t “offset the rot that is destroying our
fiscal house and the blight it spreads over our economy.”  Four Fed districts reported slower economic growth while
the remaining eight said the expansion held steady amid
“uncertainty” because of the U.S. fiscal deadlock, the central
bank  said  yesterday in its Beige Book business survey based on
reports through Oct. 7. Growth remained “modest to moderate”
as  consumer spending  maintained gains and business investment
grew, the Fed said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  