-- Fed’s Evans Sees QE Tapering Postponed After Data Shutdown
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 2013-10-17T17:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/fed-s-evans-sees-qe-tapering-postponed-after-data-shutdown.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
President Charles Evans, an outspoken advocate of pressing on
with Fed stimulus, said the central bank should not begin
reducing the pace of asset purchases as the data used to gauge
the economy’s health stopped during the government shutdown.  “Only the  data  can tell us how much progress we’ve made
and they aren’t saying much right now,” Evans said today in a
speech prepared for delivery in Madison,  Wisconsin . “The data
available in September were inconclusive, and since then,
incoming information has been silenced with the federal
government shutdown.”  The 16-day shutdown, which ended early this morning when
President  Barack Obama  signed a bill reopening the government,
furloughed hundreds of thousands of workers and shaved 0.6
percent from fourth-quarter 2013 economic growth, taking $24
billion out of the economy, according to an estimate from
Standard & Poor’s yesterday. Affected agencies included the
 Department of Labor  and Department of Commerce, which produce
the key economic reports on inflation, growth and unemployment.  The Fed should continue the $85 billion monthly asset
purchase program, known as QE3 for the third round of
quantitative easing, until economic reports confirm whether the
economy has improved sufficiently, Evans said.  Purchase Rate  “It is not yet time to remove accommodation,” Evans said
at the 2013 Wisconsin Real Estate and Economic Outlook
Conference. “The data are still not definitive enough to say
that now is time to adjust the QE3 flow purchase rate.”  In response to audience questions, Evans said the Fed would
likely need “a couple of meetings to assess” the economy and
await data that present a picture of how the economy weathered
the shutdown.  Evans also told the audience he was not prepared to
advocate increasing the rate of purchases. “The decision to
actually increase the flow rate would be a very challenging one
to make at the moment, given we’ve been doing this program for
so long,” he said.  The central bank contemplated tapering its purchases at a
meeting Sept. 17-18, yet decided to press onward. Most
economists were surprised when the central bank opted to
continue the full program. Participants in a Bloomberg survey
had expected the Fed to reduce the program to $80 billion a
month at the meeting.  Evans is not alone in seeing the shutdown further
postponing the Fed’s tapering. Dallas Fed President Richard
Fisher, who has called for reducing bond purchases, said fiscal
discord has undermined the argument for tapering.  Talk of cutting bond purchases has “all been swamped by
fiscal shenanigans,” Fisher told reporters after a speech today
in New York.  Evans said the program should continue until the labor
market is healthier and more people are participating in the
labor force.  “I also would need to see more steady, solid growth in
gross domestic product to be confident that the labor market
gains would not be undone by a drop in businesses’ demand for
labor,” Evans said.  The unemployment rate fell to 7.3 percent in August, the
lowest since December 2008. The decline has been accompanied by
discouraged workers abandoning the labor force entirely.
Participation in the labor market declined to 63.2 percent in
August, the lowest since 1978, according to Bureau of Labor
Statistics data.  Jobs Report  The government had planned to release its jobs report
updating statistics on the labor market on Oct. 4. The report
was postponed by the shutdown and has not been rescheduled for
release.  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy with Evans,
55, voting this year.  Evans said he expects the economy to improve as fiscal drag
wanes, forecasting growth of about 3 percent in 2014 and the
unemployment rate dropping below 7 percent by the end of next
year.  “The economic fundamentals are much improved,” he said.
“The cyclical repair process is well under way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  