-- Finra Asks Banks to Check Out Individual Structured-Note Brokers
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-10-17T15:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/finra-asks-banks-to-check-out-individual-structured-note-brokers.html
The Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority set guidelines for the first time for how banks in the
U.S. should perform due diligence on brokers who sell their
structured notes.  Issuers should conduct background checks on distributors as
well as relevant employees, according to a  report  on conflicts
of interest the industry watchdog released on Oct. 14.  Finra summarized practices on managing conflicts of
interest among brokerage firms, including having brokers explain
complex securities, according to the report. The regulator
doesn’t set any new rules, but expects brokers to “implement an
appropriate conflict management framework.”  The approach is “carrot and stick” rather than
rulemaking, said Bradley Berman, a lawyer at Morrison & Foerster
in New York. “They’re going to look at what people are doing
over time and they’re saying ‘we could, if necessary, go to
rulemaking if we don’t see conflicts-of-interest procedures
being implemented and investors being informed about
conflicts.’”  Finra asked brokers to detail their most significant
conflicts and how they manage them in a July 2012 letter.  ‘Do More’  “While many firms have made progress in improving the way
they manage conflicts, our review reveals that firms should do
more,” Richard Ketchum, Finra’s chief executive officer, said
in a  statement .  The know-your-distributor guidelines in the report can be
applied whenever third-party distributors, like brokerages that
aren’t owned by banks, are used to sell structured notes, Berman
said.  Banks creating structured notes should conduct background
checks on individual brokers, including looking for complaints
and litigation, according to the report. The issuer should also
review the financial health of the firm, require distributors to
complete questionnaires on sales practices, conduct interviews
on its “compliance culture,” obtain information on
compensation and customers, and review sub-distributors.  “There needs to be supervision and management to prevent
conflicts,” said Jacob Zamansky, a lawyer who has represented
investors over soured structured notes. “Otherwise, you get
these firms that are pushing products that investors don’t want
or are not suitable.”  New Guidelines  Before the report was released, security issuers were
expected to perform due diligence on distributors and evaluate
their compliance culture, but there wasn’t “a large amount of
specific regulatory guidance,” according to a March 2012 report
from Morrison & Foerster, which tracks the industry.  “Finra has done something new here,” Berman said.
“They’ve summarized information on know-your-distributor
practices gathered from firms, describing them as ‘effective
processes’ for assessing potential distributors for a product
manufacturer’s products.”  Banks have sold $31.5 billion of structured notes this
year, about the same as during the same period in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  