-- Fisher Says Fiscal Discord Weakens Argument for Tapering Fed QE
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-10-17T14:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/fisher-says-fiscal-discord-weakens-argument-for-tapering-fed-qe.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher , who has consistently called for
reducing record stimulus, said fiscal discord has undermined the
argument for tapering the Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases.  Talk of cutting bond purchases has “all been swamped by
fiscal shenanigans,” Fisher told reporters today after a speech
to the Economic Club of New York. He will hold a vote on
monetary policy next year.  A deadlock over the  federal budget  led to a 16-day partial
shutdown of the government that Congress voted to end yesterday.
Lawmakers didn’t show they’re any closer to resolving the basic
issues of spending priorities and deficit-reduction measures,
particularly in the U.S. House where a shrinking political
middle makes compromise elusive as the latest events show.  The focus now shifts to a new series of deadlines -- the
first for budget negotiations with a Dec. 13 target -- that set
up more rounds of political combat over taxes and spending on
programs including  Social Security  and Medicare. The agreement
ending the shutdown funds the government at Republican-backed
spending levels through Jan. 15, 2014, and suspends the debt
limit through Feb. 7.  “Given all of the uncertainty,” it’s hard to argue to
“change course” on  monetary policy , Fisher said. “My view
will be to stay the course” of accommodation at the Oct. 29-30
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee in Washington, he
said.  The government suspension shaved at least 0.6 percent from
fourth-quarter 2013 gross domestic product growth, or took $24
billion out of the  U.S. economy ,  Standard & Poor’s  said
yesterday.  Fisher said he sees indications “across the country” that
housing prices are becoming too high and the U.S. is creating
“once again, a housing bubble.” That makes him “very cautious
about our mortgage-backed securities purchase program,” he
said, referring to the Fed’s monthly purchases of $40 billion in
mortgage bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  