-- FLSmidth Declines on Profit Forecast Concerns: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-17T09:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/flsmidth-declines-on-profit-forecast-concerns-copenhagen-mover.html
FLSmidth & Co. A/S (FLS)  fell the most in
eight weeks in Copenhagen trading on speculation the Danish
mining equipment maker will follow two Finnish competitors in
cutting its profit forecast.  FLSmidth dropped as much as 5 percent, the most since Aug.
20. The stock, today’s biggest loser in the  Nasdaq OMX
Copenhagen 20 Index (KFX) , declined 3.8 percent to 278 kroner at 11:32
a.m. in the Danish capital. Trading volume was 92 percent of the
three-month daily average.  Outotec Oyj today lowered its 2013 profit and sales
forecasts and said it will cut 500 jobs as mining customers
reduce  capital spending . Metso Oyj said mining and construction
equipment sales will be “somewhat” below last year’s level.
The reduced forecasts are “bad news” for equity investors in
Copenhagen-based FLSmidth, Nordea Private Banking said.  “There’s a definite risk that FLSmidth will also be forced
to give a profit warning,” the bank, a unit of Stockholm-based
Nordea Bank AB, said in a note to clients.  FLSmidth most recently cut its sales and profitability
forecasts on Aug. 23. The Danish company, which has  missed 
analyst net-income estimates in its last six quarterly reports,
is scheduled to publish third-quarter earnings on Nov. 6.  FLSmidth shares are more expensive than those of its two
Finnish peers, when measured against analyst earnings estimates
for the coming 12 months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. FLSmidth’s current forward 12-month price per
earnings ratio is 18.4, according to the data. That compares
with ratios by the same measure of  11 (OTE1V)  for Espoo-based Outotec
and  11.4 (MEO1V)  for Helsinki-based Metso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  