-- Ford Defends Turf as F-Series Widens Pickup Lead Over GM
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-10-17T20:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/ford-defends-turf-as-f-series-widens-pickup-lead-over-gm.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the U.S. pickup
leader for more than three decades, will expand its F-Series
truck line for the 2014 model year to protect a widening lead
over Detroit rivals.  Eight new F-Series iterations, including an F-150 Tremor
half-ton sport truck, will expand Ford’s pickup portfolio to its
largest ever, the Dearborn, Michigan-based company said. Ford’s
lead over  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC expanded
even as the duo introduced new trucks within the past year.  “We put so much importance on continuous improvement and
making sure that we’re delivering a better solution to our
customer every year,” Doug Scott, Ford’s truck marketing
manager, said in a telephone interview. “It’s one of the
reasons we have such an aggressive product cadence and it’s what
really differentiates us.”  GM, Ford and Chrysler are racing to upgrade pickups, which
carry higher margins than other vehicles. The trucks generate
$8,000 to $10,000 in gross profit per truck and account for the
bulk of North American earnings at GM and Ford, according to
Morgan Stanley. GM hadn’t redesigned its pickups since 2006 and
has looked to its revamped trucks to win customers while Ford
prepares to bring out redesigned pickups next year.  Ford redesigned the front end of its current-generation
trucks with flashier headlamps last year and made extensive
upgrades to their powertrains two years earlier.  F-Series Surges  Ford F-Series deliveries surged 21 percent to 559,506 this
year through September. F-Series extended its lead over combined
sales of Detroit-based GM’s Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra
trucks by 18 percent to 63,061. The F-Series’ advantage over
 Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler’s Ram pickups expanded by
19 percent to 296,719.  While Scott declined to discuss next-generation pickups, he
confirmed company efforts to reduce vehicle weight that one
metals industry analyst said could mark the start of the biggest
shift in demand since the introduction of the aluminum can.  The 2015 F-150 that begins shipping this time next year
will use aluminum in its body and may begin a shift from steel
that could be the most “transformative trend” for the metal
since the aluminum can, Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst at Davenport
& Co., said in a report last month.  ‘Holy Grail’  “This has been the holy grail for the aluminum industry,”
O’Carroll said in a telephone interview. “I’ve talked to a
number of aluminum guys who are saying ‘I’m getting calls from
 Detroit  every single day on what can I produce, when will I be
able to produce it, and what kind of commitment needs to be
made.’”  Ford declined to discuss plans for F-Series beyond the 2014
models, which go into production at the end of this month. The
automaker’s 2007 sustainability plan called for Ford to take as
much as 750 pounds (340 kilograms) out of each vehicle in its
lineup, Scott said.  The new model year F-Series pickups will debut as Ford
owners remain loyal to the brand, Scott said. Less than 4
percent of buyers for GM’s 2014 Silverado are purchasing the
truck while disposing of an F-150, he said.  “It says that we’ve got a very competitive product,”
Scott said. “I don’t think that there will be any problem once
we’re sold down completely on the ’13s.”  Ford rose 1 percent to $17.46 at the close in  New York . The
shares have surged 35 percent this year, outpacing the 22
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  