-- Hulu Names Fox Distribution Chief Mike Hopkins as New CEO
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-10-17T20:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/fox-tv-s-mike-hopkins-is-named-ceo-of-hulu-replacing-forssell.html
Hulu LLC, the video streaming
service controlled by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and 21st Century Fox Inc.,
named Fox Networks distribution president Mike Hopkins as its
chief executive officer after a months-long search.  Hopkins, a Hulu board member, replaces acting CEO Andy Forssell, who will leave the company, according to a statement
today. Bloomberg News reported on Oct. 10 that Los Angeles-based
Hulu was close to hiring Hopkins.  With Hopkins, Hulu gains an executive experienced in
negotiating with pay-TV services, a group the company is
courting as it seeks to become an online and mobile portal for
cable and satellite providers.  “Mike is one of the few guys who can build momentum for
making Hulu an authentication service for the pay-TV industry,”
David Bank, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets in New York,
said in an interview last week. “Hulu could become the
definition of TV online.”  21st Century Fox, controlled by Chairman Rupert Murdoch,
rose 1.1 percent to $34.32 at the close in New York. Disney,
based in  Burbank ,  California , was little changed at $66.42.
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , a partner in Hulu which is barred from an active
management role, advanced 1 percent to $47.47.  Hulu attracts 30 million unique visitors a month to its
free, advertiser-supported product and has more than 4 million
subscribers who pay $8 a month for expanded content and viewing
on more devices.  Original Programs  The company is adding original and exclusive programs to
draw viewers and paying subscribers. Hulu is releasing 20
exclusive and original series this year and plans to boost that
to 40 within two years, Forssell said in July. When possible,
Hulu will provide all episodes of a show at once to paying
subscribers, taking a page from larger competitor  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   As head of distribution at Fox Networks Group, Hopkins
oversaw the division’s growing business of collecting
programming fees from pay-TV systems and broadcast affiliates.
He was integral in obtaining distribution for FXX and Fox Sports
1, national networks that began broadcasting in August. Fox
hasn’t yet named a successor.  Hulu plans to focus on building pay-TV fees to complement
advertising and subscriber revenue, according to RBC’s Bank.
Hopkins has the experience to make Hulu an online portal for
cable and satellite providers, he said.  Disney and Fox dropped plans to sell the TV service in July
and agreed to bolster its technology, buy and develop
programming, and build up marketing. The companies, along with
Comcast’s NBCUniversal, which is barred from an active role in
managing Hulu, provided $750 million.  Forssell, who replaced founding CEO  Jason Kilar  in March,
was the company’s senior vice president of content, helping Hulu
grow from a startup in 2007 to about $700 million in revenue in
2012, according to a March statement on the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  