-- LG Display Profit Misses Estimates on Weakening China TV Demand
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-10-17T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/lg-display-profit-misses-estimates-on-weakening-china-tv-demand.html
LG Display Co. (034220) , which supplies
panels for Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad devices, reported third-quarter profit that missed analysts’  estimates  as weaker demand
from  China  forced producers to cut TV screen prices.  Net income was 245 billion won ($230 million) in the three
months ended Sept. 30, compared with 159 billion won a year
earlier, the Seoul-based company said in a statement yesterday.
The average of 20 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg was
for a profit of 278 billion won.  Falling TV screen sales outweighed the gains the company
made by boosting production of smaller displays for mobile
devices. TV panel prices fell more than 8 percent in the third
quarter and margins are approaching break-even levels, said
Jonathan Hwang, a Seoul-based  Daewoo Securities Co. (006800)  analyst.  “Demand for TVs sharply slowed from June after the China
government’s energy subsidy program was ended in late May,”
Hwang said before the earnings release. “Weak profit from TV
panels outweighed gains from mobile devices.”  Shares of LG Display, the world’s second-largest maker of
flat panels, rose 0.2 percent to close at 24,300 won in Seoul
yesterday, while  South Korea ’s benchmark Kospi index climbed 0.3
percent.  Operating  profit , or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative costs, was 389.2 billion won on sales of 6.58
trillion won.  Flexible Technology  “Considering the continued drop in TV panel prices on top
of foreign exchange rate moves, it seems inevitable that the
operating profit will be lower in the fourth quarter” than the
third quarter, Chief Financial Officer James Jeong said at an
investor relations session.  Total display shipments in the fourth quarter are likely to
increase at a “mid single digit” pace from the third quarter,
Jeong said in a statement.  South Korean panel makers are betting bendable display
technology will be widely adopted in the future for wearable
devices, such as wristwatches or glasses. LG Display said last
week it will begin mass output of flexible OLED panels for
smartphones.  Sales of mobile displays, including tablet computers,
accounted for 25 percent of LG Display’s revenue in the third
quarter, up from 17 percent during the previous three-month
period, the company said in a statement. TV panels accounted for
44 percent of sales, down from 51 percent the previous quarter.  Apple unveiled two new iPhones last month as part of its
efforts to reach a broader range of customers. The Cupertino,
California-based company sold a record 9 million iPhones in the
first weekend of sales last month as the company rolled out the
new devices to markets including China, Japan and the U.S.  Global shipments for liquid-crystal display models may fall
0.7 percent to 205.1 million units, market researcher TrendForce
said Aug. 22. The final figure may be as low as 202 million
units, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  