-- GE Joins Boeing to Stop Ice in 747 Engines With Software
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-10-17T22:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/ge-joins-boeing-to-stop-ice-in-747-engines-with-software.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Boeing Co. (BA) 
are working on software to help prevent ice buildup in engines
on the newest 747 jumbo jet after four planes lost thrust at
cruising altitude in a three-month span this year.  The update to the GEnx engines’ control systems would help
detect ice and remove it before any damage occurs, said  Rick Kennedy , a GE spokesman. Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE and
Boeing want to receive Federal Aviation Administration approval
for the solution early next year, Kennedy said.  Engine ice adds to the struggles of Boeing’s 747-8, which
entered service in 2011 more than two years late and found few
new sales as airlines move away from four-engine aircraft. The
latest update of the iconic, humpbacked plane -- Boeing’s most-expensive at  list prices  of as much as $357.5 million -- has won
only 107 orders in its passenger and cargo versions.  Of the four ice incidents, only one resulted in engine
damage, Kennedy said in an e-mail. An AirBridgeCargo Airlines
747-8 lost thrust in one engine and had power surges in two
others while flying at 41,000 feet (12,500 meters) over  China  on
July 31, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday.  A Boeing spokeswoman, Carrie Ann Berry, said the Chicago-based company is teaming up with GE to develop a software fix
and said additional comment had to come from GE.  Laura Brown , an
FAA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to requests for
comment.  Planes flying at high altitudes in tropical zones are
susceptible to ice formation when passing through weather
formations in which rising moist air and descending cold air
mix, Kennedy said.  Work on the computer programs that control the engines on
Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner, identical in many ways to the 747’s, is
already under way, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  