-- Geithner Feuds With Greenberg Over Book in AIG Bailout Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-10-17T20:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/geithner-feuds-with-greenberg-over-documents-in-aig-bailout-suit.html
Former Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  joined the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  in
declining to give drafts of a book he’s writing to Maurice “Hank” Greenberg for a lawsuit challenging the government’s
bailout of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   Greenberg is seeking book material, interview transcripts
and other documents that are irrelevant to his $25 billion
class-action suit, Geithner said in a filing today in the U.S.
Court of Federal Claims in  Washington .  Greenberg, 88, the former chairman and chief executive
officer of New York-based AIG, claims the September 2008
assumption of 80 percent of the insurer’s stock by the  New York 
Fed, which Geithner headed at the time, violated shareholders’
rights to due process and equal protection of the law.  “Mr. Geithner’s importance is not a reason for compelling
the production of hundreds of pages of non-responsive materials
that he privately generated as raw materials for the purpose of
organizing his thoughts before writing his book,” his lawyers
wrote in the filing.  Greenberg, who headed AIG until 2005, filed suit through
his closely held Starr International Co., a shareholder in the
insurer.  Geithner’s book and other documents are needed because his
statements “could not be fully understood absent the
appropriate context, which had been redacted or withheld for
purposes of non-responsiveness,”  David Boies , a lawyer for
Starr International, wrote in the company’s portion of the
filing, a joint status report on the case to Judge Thomas Wheeler.  Interview Transcripts  Disputed items include interview transcripts and drafts
shared between Geithner, 52, and journalists Michael Grunwald
and Charlie Anderson, who are helping write the book, as well as
documents the U.S. Treasury Department gave Geithner when he was
president of the New York Fed.  Some of the book material involves Grunwald and Anderson’s
interviews of Geithner, which would be inappropriate for
disclosure, wrote John Kiernan of Debevoise & Plimpton LLP., who
is representing the New York Fed and Geithner.  In those sesssion, Geithner “talked in free association
about a wide variety of subjects, and has spoken about people
and events with a degree of informality and looseness of
language that was not contemplated for a broader audience and
that he would not use without scrupulous refinement of language
in any document intended for public consumption,” they wrote.  Geithner, who is not a party to the case, was deposed on
Sept. 19, according to the filing.  Privileged Information  In its portion of the status report, the New York Fed said
that the withheld information is protected by attorney-client
privilege.  An appeals court yesterday reversed a ruling by Wheeler and
blocked Greenberg’s bid to force Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  to sit for a deposition.  The effort to question Bernanke appeared to be “a fishing
expedition rather than an effort to establish legally material
facts,” Circuit Judge Timothy Dyk wrote in the ruling.  The case is Starr International Co. v. U.S., 11-cv-00779,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net  