-- Georg Fischer Reiterates 2015 Sales Target Helped by Pipe Unit
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-10-17T10:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/georg-fischer-reiterates-2015-sales-target-helped-by-pipe-unit.html
Georg Fischer AG (FI/N)  will meet its
target to increase sales by as much as 25 percent by 2015,
helped by a rising order book at its Piping Systems division and
further acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer Yves Serra said.  The unit has received “a lot of orders” for pipes in
 Germany  since the government last year required the owners of
schools and hospital buildings to take responsibility for water
quality, Serra said. The company is seeking to raise sales from
piping to as much as 45 percent of total revenue from 36
percent, he said. Fischer had sales of 3.6 billion Swiss francs
($3.9 billion) in 2012.  “We think that with the spread of infections like
Legionnaires’ disease, the awareness will increasingly go up,”
Serra said yesterday in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in Schaffhausen,  Switzerland .  The piping division has higher operating margins and more
stable revenue than other units, which make lightweight metal
parts for cars and cutting and drilling machines used to produce
aircraft engine pieces. Long-term orders at its automotive unit
will also help ensure the company hits its sales target, Serra
said.  Georg Fischer’s plastic pipes help keep water clean by
eliminating the risk of rust contamination, and by ensuring a
steady flow through the pipe that prevents pools of stagnant
water which attract bacteria, Pietro Lori, head of the piping
unit, said yesterday.  Swiss Franc  Georg Fischer shares have risen 68 percent this year as
investors bet on its ability to weather an industrial slowdown
in  Europe  and the over-valued  Swiss franc , which makes wage
costs higher than competitors in the euro-region.  The stock traded 0.3 percent lower at 597 francs as of
12:20 p.m. in Zurich, giving the company a market value of 2.45
billion francs.  Legionnaires disease is a type of pneumonia caused by
bacteria which tend to contaminate man-made water systems, and
kills about 500 people in the European Union each year,
according to scientific journal  Eurosurveillance .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  