-- George Sees Need to Taper QE Even Amid Fiscal ‘Uncertainty’
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-10-17T21:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/george-says-fed-should-taper-qe-even-amid-fiscal-uncertainty-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President Esther George, who has voted this year against
expanding stimulus, said the Fed has enough data to assess the
economy’s strength and should taper its $85 billion in monthly
bond buying even amid fiscal “uncertainty.”  “The evidence suggests the benefits of quantitative easing
have been quite small and the costs have continued to grow,”
George said today in a speech in  Oklahoma City , Oklahoma. While
 policy makers  “are missing a few pieces of data,” she said,
“we are still quite able to monitor and judge the economy’s
progress.”  A deadlock over the  federal budget  led to a 16-day partial
shutdown of the government that Congress voted yesterday to end.
Standard & Poor’s said suspending government operations shaved
at least 0.6 percent from fourth-quarter 2013 gross domestic
product growth, taking $24 billion out of the economy.  The “fiscal shenanigans” undermined the case for tapering
the Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond buying, Dallas Fed
President  Richard Fisher , an opponent to increasing stimulus,
said today. Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , an outspoken
advocate of greater stimulus, said the central bank shouldn’t
begin reducing bond purchases because the government during the
shutdown halted data used to gauge the economy’s health.  Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota , who has
backed record stimulus, said today policy makers should maintain
low interest rates to reduce unemployment, even at the risk of
temporarily pushing inflation above the Fed’s 2 percent goal. He
will hold a vote on the Federal Open Market Committee next year.  ‘Eyes Focused’  “We will continue to see uncertainty in some form”
regardless of the outcome of fiscal policy, George said in reply
to an audience question. “We will need to keep our eyes focused
on the long term.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent to
1,733.15 in New York, while the yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note fell 0.07 percentage point to 2.59 percent.  U.S. employment grew at a “modest pace” last month,
George said. She predicted the U.S. Senate will confirm Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  as chairman of the Fed, succeeding  Ben S. Bernanke  when his term ends in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  