-- Ghana Credit Rating Cut by Fitch Amid Budget Gap Concern
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x ,   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u   a n d   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2013-10-17T16:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/ghana-credit-rating-cut-by-fitch-amid-budget-gap-concern.html
Fitch Ratings  cut  Ghana ’s credit
rating by one level as the government said it won’t be able to
meet its target to narrow the budget gap.  The sovereign rating was lowered to B from B+, with a
stable outlook, Fitch said in an e-mailed statement today. The
government is unlikely to meet its deficit target of 9 percent
of gross domestic product, Deputy Finance Minister George Ricketts-Hagan said by phone today. The B is five levels below
investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  has an equivalent rating,
while Moody’s Investors Service has it rated a level higher.
Both companies have a stable outlook for Ghana.  Ghana is struggling to narrow a fiscal gap that rose to
12.1 percent of gross domestic product last year because of
spending before elections in December. The government on Oct. 1
raised water and electricity rates after gradually removing fuel
subsidies earlier in the year. It also introduced four new
taxes, including a 5 percent stabilization levy on earnings of
specific companies. Falling  gold prices  are further curbing
earnings for  Africa ’s second-largest gold producer.  “Ghana’s creditworthiness has been further weakened by the
government’s failure to fully implement its fiscal consolidation
plan in 2013,”  Carmen Altenkirch , a London-based Fitch analyst,
said in the note. “The authorities continued to overrun on
wages, interest costs and arrears.”  Narrow Analysis  Fitch’s analysis is “extremely narrow,” Finance Minister
Seth Terkper said by phone after the decision.  “The rating is not fair, it does not reflect our efforts
at fiscal consolidation and short and medium adjustments to curb
the deficit,” he said. “No country completes adjustment within
one year.”  Last month, Terkper said Ghana was on track to reduce the
deficit to 9 percent this year through austerity measures.  The government may fall short of its budget deficit goal
this year because of the falling price of gold, Societe Generale
SA said in August. Economic growth will slow to 7 percent this
year from 8 percent in 2012, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  New Target  Ghana will probably target a budget gap of 9.5 when Terkper
presents his new budget later this year,  David Cowan , Citigroup
Inc. Africa economist, said in an interview in Johannesburg.  “If you look at the fiscal deficit and the current account
deficit, they are significantly worse compared to their
comparatives like  Kenya  or even Zambia,”  he said. “It will be
a big test for them, because they have to get it down.”  Spending on wages climbed to 72 percent of  tax revenue  last
year, fueled by an 18 percent wage increase for civil servants.
The state plans to lower the wage bill to between 30 percent and
35 percent of tax income by 2015.  The  Bank of Ghana  left the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged for a second consecutive meeting on Sept. 18 to
counter sluggish growth and a weaker cedi. Inflation quickened
in September to 11.9 percent, the fastest pace this year, while
the currency remained at a record low, boosting the cost of
imports.  The cedi fell 0.6 percent to 2.19 per dollar as of 3:39
p.m. in Accra. The yield on the 2023 dollar bond dropped 3 basis
points to 7.87 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Rotterdam at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net ;
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  