-- GLG Said to Start Global Equities Fund Based on Europe
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-10-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/glg-said-to-start-global-equities-fund-based-on-europe.html
GLG Partners Inc., the investment
firm acquired by  Man Group Plc (EMG)  in 2010, has started a hedge fund
modeled after its flagship European equity pool that will trade
the stocks of global companies, according to three people with
knowledge of the matter.  The fund started trading this month and is overseen by
Pierre Lagrange, Simon Savage and Darren Hodges, who manage the
London-based firm’s $3 billion European Long-Short Fund, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because it hasn’t
been announced publicly. GLG plans to hire traders and analysts
with experience investing in U.S. and Asian companies to work on
the fund, said one of the people.  Man Group has been unveiling new hedge funds in an effort
to boost assets after clients pulled more than $10 billion from
its biggest one, AHL Diversified, since the end of 2010. The
company has had success this year raising money for funds
focused on stocks and credit as equity markets rise and
investors become less concerned that the European sovereign
debt-crisis is hurting economic growth, Man Group Chief
Executive Officer Emmanuel Roman told analysts yesterday.  Officials at Man Group declined to comment on the new fund.  GLG’s European Long-Short Fund rose 7.4 percent in the nine
months through September, compared with a 9 percent gain for
equity hedge funds on average, according to data compiled by
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. The fund, which is
restricted to investing in companies based in  Europe , has gained
about 9.9 percent a year since GLG co-founder Lagrange, 51,
started it in 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Beyond Europe  GLG last year formed its first Asian long-short equities
team, which is based in  Hong Kong . Man Group has tried to
increase its presence outside Europe to boost assets, naming
Lagrange chairman of the company’s Asia business in 2011. Man
Group manages $52.5 billion, down 23 percent from $68.6 billion
at the end of 2010.  Man Group bought GLG for $1.6 billion three years ago after
analysts questioned whether the company was too dependent on
AHL, a $12.5 billion hedge fund that relies on signals from
computer models to follow profitable trends in  interest rates ,
bonds and stocks. AHL has posted investment losses since 2010,
contributing to a 71 percent plunge in Man Group’s share price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  