-- Goldman Shares Decline as Revenue Falls Most Among Peers
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-10-17T20:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/goldman-shares-decline-as-revenue-falls-most-among-peers.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  declined
2.4 percent in  New York  trading after revenue dropped the most
among the biggest Wall Street banks and fixed-income results
were the worst since the financial crisis.  Third-quarter revenue of $6.72 billion was 20 percent lower
than a year earlier and fell short of the $7.35 billion average
estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Bond trading
plunged 47 percent to $1.29 billion, the New York-based company
said today in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 59, cut
expenses 25 percent in the quarter to offset falling revenue,
including a 35 percent reduction in compensation. The firm was
the only major bank to post a decline in equities trading, and
revenue compared with the second quarter dropped in three of the
company’s four business units.  Fixed-income revenue “looks very weak, and surprisingly,
it looks clearly weaker than its peers,” said Richard Staite, a
bank analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP. “It’s more than just
weak client trading, it looks like. They could’ve been badly
positioned in the market.”  Goldman Sachs declined to $158.32 at 4:15 p.m. in New York.
The stock had gained 27 percent this year through yesterday
after advancing  41 percent  in 2012. The shares have traded below
1.5 times  book value  for the past 3 1/2 years, the longest such
streak in the company’s history.  Dividend Increase  Third-quarter net income rose to $1.52 billion, or $2.88 a
share, from $1.51 billion, or $2.85, a year earlier, according
to the statement. Goldman Sachs boosted its  dividend  10 percent
to 55 cents.  “The third quarter’s results reflected a period of slow
client activity,” Blankfein said in the statement. “As longer-term U.S. budget issues are resolved, we could see an
improvement in corporate and investor sentiment that would help
lay the basis for a more sustained recovery.”  Expenses fell to $4.56 billion. Compensation, the firm’s
biggest cost, dropped to $2.38 billion and amounted to 35
percent of revenue for the quarter, down from 44 percent a year
earlier. The ratio was 38 percent for all of 2012 and was 41
percent for the first nine months of this year.  The bank hasn’t changed its principles on compensation,
Chief Financial Officer Harvey M. Schwartz said on a conference
call with analysts. It reduced the year-to-date compensation
ratio based on current revenue and “better visibility” into
year-end pay, he said.  Pay Ratio  Roger Freeman , an analyst at Barclays Plc, predicts the
ratio for the full year will be 39 percent. While a lower figure
than that “would likely be welcome news for investors,” he
wrote in a note to clients today that “we suspect that the
third-quarter represents more of a true-up than anything else.”  Fixed-income, currency and commodity trading revenue of
$1.29 billion fell short of analysts’ estimates of $1.85 billion
from Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s Brad Hintz and $2.04 billion
from Staite at Atlantic Equities. It trailed JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s $3.44 billion in fixed-income revenue and Citigroup Inc.’s
$2.78 billion.  Goldman Sachs said its revenue from trading in  interest
rates  and mortgages was “significantly lower” from a year
earlier. Schwartz said the firm also had losses on inventory
positions in its currency-trading business.  “We just didn’t execute as well as we would have liked
to,” Schwartz said. “We will have quarters where we will have
outperformance and we will have tough quarters. This happened to
be a tough one.”  Fed Tapering  Banks have said clients pulled back amid speculation the
 Federal Reserve  would slow its $85 billion in monthly bond
buying. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month that the
central bank decided not to taper its stimulus yet.  Part of Goldman Sachs’s fixed-income trading, the firm’s
single largest revenue source, comes from physical commodities,
which is facing a regulatory review. The Fed is examining all
legal and regulatory exemptions that allow banks to participate
in the  commodities markets , a person briefed on the process said
earlier this month.  Goldman Sachs’s physical commodities unit is a “core”
business that provides a crucial service to clients, Blankfein
said last month.  Revenue from the equities division declined 9 percent from
a year earlier to $1.64 billion, excluding accounting
adjustments and revenue from a reinsurance business that Goldman
sold last quarter. That compared with Staite’s $1.61 billion
estimate and a $1.65 billion projection from Credit Suisse Group
AG’s  Howard Chen .  Stock Trading  Goldman Sachs’s equities-trading revenue, the highest among
all global banks last year, may have been hampered by a
programming error in August that caused the investment bank to
send faulty stock-options orders. Most of the trades caused by
the error were canceled, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said.  In September, the firm tapped R. Martin Chavez, co-head of
the equities-trading division, to take over as chief information
officer for Steven Scopellite, who’s retiring.  Total revenue from sales and trading, led globally by Pablo J. Salame and Isabelle Ealet, was $2.94 billion. That trailed
the $3.49 billion at Citigroup and $4.69 billion at JPMorgan.  Third-quarter revenue from  investment banking , the business
run globally by Richard J. Gnodde, David M. Solomon and John S. Weinberg, was little changed from a year earlier at $1.17
billion. That compared with JPMorgan’s $1.51 billion in
investment-banking revenue and Bank of America Corp.’s $1.4
billion.  Merger Advice  Goldman Sachs’s figure included $423 million of financial-advisory revenue, including fees for takeover advice, a drop of
17 percent. Revenue from underwriting, a business led by Stephen M. Scherr, climbed 13 percent to $743 million in the quarter,
including $467 million from debt underwriting and $276 million
for equity offerings.  Goldman Sachs held the top spot among arrangers of global
equity, equity-linked and rights offerings in the first nine
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It ranked first
in advising on announced mergers and acquisitions and fifth in
underwriting U.S. bonds, the data show.  The Investing & Lending group, which includes gains and
losses on Goldman Sachs’s own investments in stocks, debt, real
estate, private equity and hedge funds, as well as loans, posted
third-quarter revenue of $1.48 billion, down from $1.8 billion a
year earlier.  Asset Management  Revenue from asset management rose 2 percent from a year
earlier to $1.22 billion. Total assets under management
increased $36 billion from the second quarter to $991 billion.
Blankfein said in May that he devotes a “very, very high
percentage” of his attention to building that business since it
offers the potential for growth even if markets don’t improve.  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  this month
exercised warrants obtained through a 2008 deal to get 13.1
million shares of Goldman Sachs stock, making Berkshire the
investment bank’s  seventh-largest  stockholder. Buffett and
Blankfein have said that Berkshire intends to remain a long-term
investor. The firm said today that the deal reduced book value
per share by about 3 percent this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  