-- Gold Jumps Most in Four Weeks on Dollar Slump, Stimulus
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-10-17T18:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/gold-jumps-most-in-four-weeks-on-dollar-dagong-u-s-downgrade.html
Gold futures jumped the most in four
weeks as the dollar slumped and speculation mounted that the
 Federal Reserve  will hold off on scaling back monetary stimulus,
boosting demand for the metal as an alternative investment.  The greenback fell the most in a month against a basket of
10 major currencies on speculation that disruptions from the
U.S. debt-ceiling debate and a 16-day government shutdown will
spur the Fed to maintain debt purchases. In China, which has the
largest foreign holdings of Treasuries, one of the Asian
nation’s biggest credit-rating companies cut its grade on the
U.S. to A- from A.  “The drag put on the economy because of the shutdown will
force the Fed to continue with the stimulus measures,”  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated Brokerage Services LLC in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “The dollar’s weakness
is helping gold.”  Gold futures for December delivery rose 3.2 percent to
settle at $1,323 an ounce at 1:41 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
the biggest gain for a most-active contract since Sept. 19.
Trading was 31 percent above average for the past 100 days for
this time, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Congress voted yesterday to raise the debt limit. The
partial government shutdown that began Oct. 1 took $24 billion
out of the economy,  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday.  This year, gold has dropped 21 percent, heading for the
first annual drop since 2000. Some investors lost faith in the
metal as a store of value after U.S. equities rallied to a
record and inflation remained muted.  Silver futures for December delivery advanced 2.7 percent
to $21.947 an ounce.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
January delivery increased 2.6 percent to $1,434.90 an ounce.
Palladium futures for December delivery climbed 3.4 percent to
$737.80 an ounce. The gains were the most since Sept. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  