-- Gore Says Money Influence in Politics Hacked Democracy
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-10-17T19:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/gore-says-money-influence-in-politics-hacked-democracy.html
Former Vice President  Al Gore  said
U.S. democracy “has been hacked” by anonymous big donors using
money to expand their influence in politics.  Gore, the 2000 Democratic presidential nominee and vice
president during the 1995 and 1996 government shutdowns, linked
the political stalemate that partially closed the government for
16 days this month to the power of special interests.  “Big anonymous contributors should not call the shots,”
Gore said in an interview today on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers” program. “Money plays the dominant role in
politics today.”  In 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court in a ruling known as
 Citizens United  allowed unlimited corporate and union political
spending. Nonprofit advocacy groups such as Priorities USA,
founded by former Obama aides, and Crossroads GPS, created with
the help of Republican strategist  Karl Rove , proliferated since
the ruling.  Such organizations spent more than $300 million on the 2012
campaign, up 280 percent over the $79 million spent four years
earlier, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Gore said efforts to reduce the influence have been stymied
“because the special interests control the system.”  That has played into the political stalemate between
President Barack Obama and congressional Republicans that led to
the partial government shutdown and bringing the government  to
the brink of default, he said.  Damaging Shutdowns  “These shutdowns are very damaging,” and the political
gridlock is worse than when Gore was in office, he said. The
agreement that restored government funding and lifted the debt
limit until early next year meant the stalemate was “only
resolved for a short term and we’ll be back facing it again,”
he said.  The resolution, even if only temporary, “certainly
validates” Obama’s refusal to “negotiate with the proverbial
gun pointed at our heads.”  Gore, 65, a Democrat who won a Nobel Prize in 2007 for his
efforts to raise awareness of  climate change , said special
interests also have contributed to the “pathetic performance”
of the U.S. in addressing global warming.  “We are paying the cost of carbon and global pollution
now,” he said in advocating putting a price on carbon
emissions.  Climate change is a long-term risk for markets because of
the impact on infrastructure, farm assets and major coastal
cities, he said.  Business Interests  Gore has stayed out of politics since the 2000 election, in
which he won the popular vote over Republican  George W. Bush 
while losing in the decisive Electoral College after the U.S.
Supreme Court stopped a recount of votes in Florida.  Since then, Gore has transformed himself from a politician
to a successful businessman with a net worth that may exceed
$200 million. A partner at venture capital company Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers, Gore is also on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s board and
a senior adviser at  Google Inc. (GOOG) , according to his website
biography. He’s spent recent years advocating “sustainable
capitalism.”  His holdings also include investments in  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,
 EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  through his Generation
Investment Management US LLP.  Gore this year sold his Current TV network to  Al Jazeera ,
the cable channel funded in part by oil-rich Qatar. The sale was
announced in January with a price tag of about $500 million.  His books on the climate “Earth in the Balance,” “An
Inconvenient Truth” and “The Assault on Reason,” have been
best sellers, though he has pledged any earnings to his
nonprofit group, the  Climate Reality Project .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  