-- IBM Said to Reassign Emerging-Markets Head After Sales Slump
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-17T20:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/ibm-said-to-put-sales-head-di-leo-in-charge-of-growth-markets.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  is reassigning James Bramante, who had overseen its
emerging-markets business, after a drop in the unit’s sales,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Bruno Di Leo, who formerly ran IBM’s growth markets and is
now head of sales, will be in charge of setting up a new team to
oversee the unit, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private. Bramante’s new
position has yet to be announced.  Revenue in the division fell 9 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, dragged down by a 22 percent decline in
 China , where the government was revamping its economic policy,
Armonk, New York-based IBM said yesterday. The performance
helped contribute to the sixth straight quarterly decline in
total sales for the world’s biggest computer-services company.  “In the growth markets organization, the leadership team
that established that to begin with and drove that organization
is now back in the cockpit, led by Bruno Di Leo and his
leadership team,” IBM Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge
said yesterday on a conference call. “They know how to get this
done.”  James Sciales, an IBM spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment.  While growth in the emerging-markets unit -- which also
includes India and countries in  Africa  and the Middle East --
typically exceeds developed markets by 8 to 10 percentage
points, it trailed them for the first time this quarter,
Loughridge said.  Hardware Shuffle  The executive change is Chief Executive Officer Ginni Rometty’s second major leadership shuffle this year. In April,
she appointed Tom Rosamilia, who had been overseeing corporate
strategy, to take charge of the hardware division, replacing Rod Adkins.  The hardware business continues to drag the company down,
with revenue declining 17 percent in the third quarter.  Bramante’s reassignment was reported earlier today by the
Wall Street Journal.  IBM fell 6.4 percent to $174.83 at the close in New York
for the biggest decline since April. The shares have slipped 8.7
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  