-- Michael Dell and Silver Lake Will Comprise New Dell Board
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-10-17T17:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/michael-dell-and-silver-lake-will-comprise-new-dell-board.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  will install a new
slimmed-down board composed of three members once it becomes a
private company later this month, people with knowledge of the
the matter said.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell , along with Egon Durban and Simon Patterson from  Silver Lake  Management LLC will
replace the 10 directors of the computer maker, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the plans aren’t public.  The outgoing board was approved by shareholders in the
company’s final meeting as a public company today at Dell’s
Round Rock, Texas, headquarters. The  vote , which also authorized
executives’ pay packages, was largely symbolic, since the $24.9
billion leveraged buyout deal is scheduled to close during the
last week of October.  “The directors’ terms are up and you’ve got to have
someone running it until the deal closes,” said  Charles Elson ,
director of the  John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance 
at the  University of Delaware . “You want to make sure the board
has authority through the close.”  Gordon Goldstein, a spokesman for Silver Lake, and a
representative for Dell declined to comment.  Under the new  capital structure , Michael Dell will own
about 75 percent of the company and Silver Lake about 25
percent, people with knowledge of deal said.  Final Steps  When the buyout group sweetened its offer in August to
acquire Dell, it arranged to hold a separate meeting to elect
directors in an effort to thwart  Carl Icahn ’s opposition to the
deal. The financier had sought to have a vote on the buyout and
the annual meeting on the same day, to force a proxy fight.  The annual meeting, at which shareholders also approved
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC as Dell’s auditor this year, marks
one of the final steps in a protracted takeover fight that
spanned most of the year.  After Dell and Silver Lake announced their intention to buy
the company in February, private-equity firm  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
explored an acquisition of the computer maker before withdrawing
in April. Icahn and his partner, Southeastern Asset Management
Inc., made a series of alternate proposals to investors, seeking
to upend the original deal before bowing out earlier this month.  The buyers clinched the deal on Aug. 2 to buy back the
company Dell founded in 1984, when they added a dividend payment
of 13 cents on top of an already-increased offer of $13.75 a
share in exchange for more lenient voting rules, replacing the
original bid for $13.65.  Shareholders ratified the deal Sept. 12, clearing the way
for the buyers to move forward with their plan to turn Dell into
a bigger supplier of hardware and software for corporate data
centers, as well as mobile technology, from a company largely
dependent on personal computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  