-- Higher German Taxes Unnecessary as Surplus Grows, Institutes Say
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-10-17T10:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/higher-german-taxes-unnecessary-as-surplus-grows-institutes-say.html
Germany ’s next government won’t need
to raise top income-tax rates to ease burdens on lower earners
and pay for infrastructure spending, the nation’s top economic
institutes said, contradicting opposition demands.  Germany’s budget surplus will widen to 0.3 percent of gross
domestic product in 2014, or 7.7 billion euros ($10.5 billion),
from 0.1 percent of GDP this year, which equates to 3 billion
euros, the institutes said in a twice-yearly report.  “With a continued moderate expansion of  government
spending , significant surpluses in the budget can be achieved in
the medium term that create scope to reduce bracket creep while
at the same time not neglecting public investment spending,”
the institutes said. “Raising the top tax rate isn’t required
in this context with a view to its fiscal effects.”  By advising against higher taxes, the institutes are siding
with  Chancellor Angela Merkel , whose Christian Union bloc is
holding exploratory talks with the opposition Social Democrats
about forming a coalition. Merkel regards her commitment not to
increase taxes as one of two red lines in talks with the SPD.  Germany’s top income-tax rates are 42 percent for those
earning from about 53,000 euros and 45 percent for those earning
250,000 euros or more.  The SPD wants the 42 percent rate to climb progressively
for those earning 64,000 euros or more until 100,000 euros, at
which point a rate of 49 percent would kick in. The party also
wants to levy a  wealth tax . The party says 5 percent of earners
would pay more tax.  Negotiators from Merkel’s bloc and the SPD are scheduled to
meet for a third round of preliminary talks at 3 p.m. in Berlin
today. An SPD party congress is due to meet in Berlin on Oct. 20
to give the go-ahead or reject formal negotiations on a possible
coalition with Merkel to govern  Europe ’s biggest economy.  Avoid Burdens  Taxpayers would adapt to increased taxes and seek to avoid
higher burdens, damping the revenue effects from a higher top
 tax rate , the institutes said. Higher taxation would also limit
incentives to work, resulting in reduced labor supply, growth
and income. Any budget gaps should be closed by cutting
subsidies, the institutes said.  Ferdinand Fichtner, an economist at the DIW institute in
Berlin, told reporters the institutes agree that a German
blanket minimum wage of 8.50 euros per hour would be damaging
for the economy as a whole and prompt job losses especially in
the country’s eastern half, where a quarter of workers are
currently paid less.  SPD members have said a minimum wage at that level is a
condition for participation in a government.  The leading institutes comprise Berlin-based DIW in
cooperation with Austria’s Wifo, Munich’s Ifo in cooperation
with Zurich’s KOF, Halle’s IWH in cooperation with Kiel
Economics and Essen’s RWI in cooperation with Vienna’s IHS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  