-- India’s Rupee Snaps Two-Day Loss After U.S. Averts Debt Default
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-10-17T04:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/india-s-rupee-snaps-two-day-loss-after-u-s-averts-debt-default.html
India ’s rupee snapped a two-day loss
after U.S. lawmakers raised their nation’s debt ceiling,
averting a default that could have damped demand for emerging-market assets.  Congress voted to halt a 16-day government shutdown, ending
the fiscal impasse. Lawmakers didn’t resolve any of their long-term divides on fiscal policy and will need to return to the
same issues over the next four months. The rupee will swing
between gains and losses today as bunched inflows due to a
market holiday yesterday are countered by dollar purchases by
importers, according to Andhra Bank.  “The U.S. has just postponed its debt worries, not
resolved them,” said Vikas Babu, a trader at state-run  Andhra
Bank (ANDB)  in Mumbai. “There will be two-way movement in the rupee
today and in the longer term rupee weakness will persist.”  The rupee gained 0.4 percent from Oct. 15 to 61.6275 per
dollar as of 9:49 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price
options, fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to
14.30 percent.  Congress acted the day before U.S. borrowing authority was
scheduled to lapse as lawmakers engaged in their fourth round of
fiscal brinkmanship in less than three years. The agreement
negotiated by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Minority
Leader Mitch McConnell will fund the government at Republican-backed spending levels through Jan. 15, 2014, and suspend the
debt limit through Feb. 7, setting up another round of
confrontations then.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards rose 0.2 percent from
yesterday to 63.02 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts advanced 0.2 percent to
63.08. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  