-- India’s 10-Year Bonds Snap 3-Day Loss on U.S. Debt-Ceiling Deal
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-10-17T05:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/india-s-10-year-bonds-snap-3-day-loss-on-u-s-debt-ceiling-deal.html
India’s 10-year bonds rose for the
first time in four days as U.S. politicians voted to increase
the debt limit and end a government shutdown, improving the
outlook for  emerging markets .  President  Barack Obama  signed into law an agreement that
ends the 16-day impasse and extends the borrowing authority to
early next year. Focus may now return to the  Federal Reserve  as
to when it will start to pare its $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases that have spurred demand for higher-yielding assets.
The U.S. central bank unexpectedly refrained from cutting
stimulus last month.  “While global risk appetite may see a snap back in the
short term, it will be key to see if it can be sustained given
that the deal is essentially kicking the can down the road to
early 2014,”  Selena Ling , a Singapore-based economist at
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., wrote in a research note today.
“A December taper still looks unlikely for now given the
paucity of clear economic data and lingering uncertainty on the
medium-term fiscal resolution.”  The yield on the 7.16 percent government notes due May 2023
fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 8.61
percent as of 10:21 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from the
central bank’s trading system. Indian markets were closed
yesterday for a public holiday.  India’s sovereign bonds dropped in the three days through
Oct. 15 as accelerating inflation raised concern the central
bank will increase  interest rates .  The  wholesale-price  index, the benchmark inflation gauge,
rose to a seven-month high of 6.46 percent in September,
official data showed on Oct. 14.  Consumer prices  climbed 9.84
percent, exceeding the 9.5 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Raghuram Rajan boosted the
repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 7.5 percent last month,
the first increase since 2011. The one-year interest-rate swap,
a derivative contract used to guard against fluctuations in
funding costs, fell two basis points to 8.48 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  