-- Ineos to Propose Cost Cuts at Halted Grangemouth Refinery
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-10-17T16:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/ineos-to-propose-cost-cuts-at-halted-grangemouth-refinery.html
Ineos Group Holdings SA proposed
cost cuts at the 210,000 barrel-a-day Grangemouth refinery and
petrochemical site in Scotland after it halted production this
week in anticipation of a strike.  The company presented a plan to workers today that includes
changes to pensions and working terms,  Richard Longden , a
spokesman for Ineos, said by phone from London. The proposal
also includes options to close some inefficient units, including
a naphtha cracker and benzene-processing unit, he said. Output
from the site is halted indefinitely until a deal can be reached
with employees.  “This is D-Day for Grangemouth,” Longden said today.
“The site has not only suffered huge losses, but also needs
huge investment.”  Unite, Britain’s largest union, called off a 48-hour strike
yesterday which could have cut about 45 percent of the U.K.’s
crude production. The site supplies power and steam to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
neighboring Kinneil processing plant, which handles crude from
the company’s  Forties Pipeline System  gathered from more than 80
offshore fields. In 2008, workers at Grangemouth held a two-day
strike that curbed North Sea crude output and disrupted fuel
supplies across  Scotland .  The facility will continue to supply steam to Kinneil while
the refinery is offline, Longden said. The Grangemouth oil
refinery is jointly owned by Ineos and PetroChina Co. Ltd.,
while Ineos is the sole owner of the petrochemical site.  Union Dispute  Restoring full production after the outage will take weeks,
Ineos said in a  statement  today. During the eight weeks it took
to reach normal operations after the 2008 strike, a compressor
fire and crude oil leak occurred, Ineos said.  Workers had planned a walkout on Oct. 20 because of a
dispute over union leader Stephen Deans and disagreements over
pay and conditions. The parties failed to reach a deal after two
days of talks this week mediated by the U.K.’s Advisory,
Conciliation and Arbitration Service.  Ineos started direct consultations with employees today,
including a proposal to replace a final salary pension plan, the
company said. The Unite union is looking to take legal action
over the company’s plan, which it  said  introduces “pay freezes
and pay cuts.”  Unite said Ineos was giving an “inaccurate financial
representation of the Grangemouth site aimed at slashing jobs,
pay, pensions and skills,” according to a  statement  today. It
cited analysis by Richard Murphy, from Fulcrum Chartered
Accountants, that projected the company’s chemicals unit would
be profitable for several years.  Workers’ Response  The site has lost 579 million pounds ($930 million) in the
last four years and is “financially distressed,” Longden said.
The company aims to get a response from workers by Oct. 22 and
will consult its shareholders about resuming production after
that, he said.  Unite says that Grangemouth’s financial situation is less
dire, saying labor costs including pensions account for under 17
percent of total revenue and that sales grew 50 percent last
year.  Should the plant close, it would join a series of 15
European refineries permanently shuttered in the past five
years, according to a tally by the International Energy Agency.  Scotland First Minister Alex Salmond said yesterday that
the government is “happy to assist” with an “investment
package,” for Grangemouth, which processes about 80 percent of
Scotland’s fuel. He didn’t specify any amounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  