-- Intuitive Surgical Declines as Revenue Misses Estimates
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-10-18T20:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/intuitive-s-profit-declines-on-lower-da-vinci-robot-sales.html
Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG) , the maker
of a $1.5 million robotic surgery system, fell the most in three
months after third-quarter profit declined on lower sales of its
devices and related equipment.  Revenue decreased 7.2 percent to $499 million, missing the
average  estimate  of $525.9 million from 18 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Sunnyvale, California-based Intuitive sold 101 da
Vinci robot systems compared with 155 a year earlier, according
to a statement yesterday.  Intuitive is facing scrutiny over the marketing, cost
effectiveness and safety of its devices. Bloomberg News reported
in February that U.S. regulators were surveying surgeons about
the robots after a rise in adverse events reports. In July,
Intuitive received a warning letter after an inspection found it
hadn’t adequately reported product corrections and patient
adverse events in some cases.  “Da Vinci sales are unlikely to turn around unless
Intuitive conjures up data showing that the system actually
improves patient outcomes,” said  Erik Gordon , a professor at
the  University of Michigan ’s Ross School of Business in  Ann
Arbor . “Its past success was based on anecdotal claims and
assumptions that robotic aids had to be better than unaided
surgeons. Now, potential buyers want real evidence.”  Intuitive  fell  5.7 percent to $376.52 at the close in New
York, the biggest single-day decline since July 19. The shares
have decreased 34 percent since the report of the  Food and Drug
Administration ’s doctor survey.  Injury Lawsuits  In a regulatory filing today, the company said it’s
defending about 50 product liability lawsuits brought by
patients who allege injures linked to robotic surgery.  “Claims brought to our attention by plaintiffs’ attorneys,
which contain allegations of patient injury, are required to be
investigated and in most cases are reported to the FDA,”
Intuitive said in the filing. “This has led to increases” in
adverse event reports to U.S regulators.  Robotic operations haven’t been proven in randomized trials
to offer significant health benefits compared with standard,
less-invasive surgery and multiple studies show they can cost
thousands of dollars more. The growth of the procedures has been
fueled by marketing from doctors, hospitals and the company,
including television and radio advertising, promotions on doctor
and hospital websites and YouTube videos,  Bloomberg News 
reported in an Oct. 8 story.  Profit Report  Third-quarter net income decreased to $156.8 million, or
$3.99 a share, from $183.3 million, or $4.46, a year earlier,
the company said yesterday.  Intuitive said full-year sales will be in the lower half of
its July  forecast  of unchanged to 7 percent growth. While the
company in January predicted annual sales growth of 16 percent
to 19 percent, it revised the estimate in July after reporting
that second-quarter sales of the robot systems had declined from
the previous year.  U.S. hospitals used robot-assisted surgery in more than
350,000 operations last year. The robots help perform
hysterectomies, gall bladder removals, prostate cancer
treatment, and many other soft tissue operations. Half of
general surgeons plan to add robotic systems within two years in
response to general demand, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
survey reported Oct. 3.  The number of surgical procedures using Intuitive’s device
rose about 16 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier,
the company said in its statement.  “Our third-quarter results were impacted by the same
pressures we faced in the first half of the year -- namely,
moderating growth in benign gynecology, combined with changing
hospital capital spending priorities associated with the
implementation of the Affordable Care Act,” Chief Executive
Officer Gary Guthart said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  