-- Investors Skeptical on U.S., Prefer Euro-Area, BofA Says
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h   a n d   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-10-17T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/investors-skeptical-on-u-s-prefer-euro-area-bofa-says.html
Global asset managers sold U.S.
equities and increased their holdings in  euro-area stocks  to a
six-year high as the debt-ceiling debate dragged on until a day
before a deadline, a Bank of America Corp. survey showed.  A net 46 percent of 183 money managers, who together
oversee $500 billion, said they were overweight euro-area
stocks, meaning they held more of the shares than are
represented in benchmarks, according to the survey. That was the
highest since June 2007.  Their net allocation to  U.S. stocks  fell to zero for the
first time since January, from 9 percent overweight a month
earlier. That means the proportion of fund managers who were
underweight American equities matched those who were overweight.  “The U.S. is dominating tail risks and  Europe  is
dominating allocation,” John Bilton, European investment
strategist at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit, said in
 London . “The big story this month is Europe, which was the
number one risk only a few months ago. A moderation in U.S.
equity allocation was caused by fears around the debt ceiling.”  The U.S. government reopened today after 16 days of partial
shutdown and called back workers sent on unpaid leave as
President  Barack Obama  signed into law a measure to extend the
borrowing powers into early 2014. Congress approved the
bipartisan plan yesterday. Without the deal, the Treasury would
have exhausted its borrowing powers today and faced the risk of
default later this month.  Biggest Worry  Investors cited a potential tightening of fiscal policy in
the U.S. as the biggest risk to further gains, with one in four
money managers saying they are most concerned about the
political dispute in  Washington .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.2 percent from an
 all-time high  on Sept. 18 through yesterday. In the same period,
the Euro Stoxx 50 Index gained 3.7 percent.  Euro-area equities advanced last month as economic reports
pointed to a recovery and both the  European Central Bank  pledged
to keep  interest rates  low.  A net 10 percent of money managers were underweight on
emerging-market equities, the survey showed. They boosted net
allocations for Japanese stocks to a five-month high of 30
percent overweight.  A net 49 percent were overweight equities worldwide, down
from 60 percent in September. That was the lowest in four
months. The survey was conducted between Oct. 4 and Oct. 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net ;
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  