-- Dalian Iron Ore Futures Debut as China Seeks Pricing Power
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-18T07:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/iron-ore-futures-debut-in-dalian-as-china-seeks-pricing-power.html
Iron ore  futures for physical
delivery debut on the Dalian Commodity Exchange today as China
takes greater control of price setting in the biggest seaborne
commodity trade after oil.  The contract for delivery in May, the most active by volume
with 300,818 lots, closed at 977  yuan  ($160) a metric ton, after
opening at the bourse-set price of 950 yuan. The exchange, the
nation’s third-largest by volume of futures, will use stockpiles
of the steel-making feedstock at shipping terminals including
Tianjin and Qingdao, as well as material held at some mills.  Dalian’s futures backed by the raw material challenge
index-based contracts settled financially by CME Group Inc.,
Singapore Exchange Ltd. and IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
Overseas companies will be allowed to trade via units registered
in  China , the bourse said.  “China is a natural home for iron ore trading as the
biggest user,” said Wu Wenzhang, head of research at  Shanghai 
Steelhome Information Technology Co. “There’s more than 90
million tons of inventory sitting at Chinese ports, providing
perfect conditions for delivery that’s unmatched anywhere else
in the world.”  Imports by China rose to a record 74.6 million tons in
September, buoyed by steel demand, according to data released on
Oct. 12 by the customs agency. China’s purchases accounted for
about two-thirds of the seaborne trade that totaled 1.18 billion
tons in 2012, according to estimates by CME Group. based on last
year’s average price of $128.30 a ton for ore cargoes with 62
percent iron content offloaded at Tianjin, the annual trade in
the commodity is worth more than $150 billion.  ‘Bodes Well’  “Judging from the first day of trading volume, the new
iron ore futures attracted quite a lot of participants and we
think it bodes well for more liquidity in the future,” said Gao
Bo, an analyst at Mysteel Research in Shanghai.  Iron ore  entered a  bull market  in July as users in China
replenished stockpiles that shrank in March to the lowest level
since 2009. Prices at Tianjin measured by The Steel Index Ltd.
have rallied 22 percent from this year’s low on May 31 to
$134.40 a ton Oct. 17.  The  Singapore Exchange  has the largest market for iron ore
securities, with the volume of swaps cleared in September
increasing 16 percent from a year earlier to 40,917 contracts,
equivalent to 20.5 million tons, according to its website.  Rebar Futures  The Shanghai Futures Exchange started contracts for steel
reinforcement-bars in March of 2009. Rebar futures are now the
most-traded of any metal in China after copper, with an average
of 1,486,111 lots valued at 55 billion yuan changing hands every
day in 2012, according to data from the bourse.  Chinese steelmakers had questioned the reliability of a
 price index  provided by Platts that became a benchmark after
producers including  Vale SA (VALE)  and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  scrapped annual
contract price talks in 2010.  “Theoretically, there are no obstacles for suppliers such
as Vale and BHP to trade Dalian’s iron ore futures,” said Wang
Shumei, an official at the bourse who helped design the
contracts. “When China scrapped a licensing system for iron ore
imports this year, it cleared the last hurdle to the foreign
participation.”  The underlying commodity for the Dalian futures is ore with
62 percent iron content that contains no more than 4 percent of
impurities such as aluminum and silicon, said Wang.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  