-- Italy’s Letta Says Trade Pact Between U.S., EU to Be Priority
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-10-17T23:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/italy-s-letta-says-trade-pact-between-u-s-eu-to-be-priority.html
Prime Minister Enrico Letta, after
meeting with President  Barack Obama  in  Washington , said a trade
agreement between the U.S. and the European Union will be a
priority when  Italy  holds the EU’s rotating presidency next
year.  Government leaders and business groups have been pursuing
the pact, known as the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment
Partnership, or T-TIP, as a way to boost their economies.
Negotiators want to eliminate most tariffs and streamline the
thicket of regulations in the two regions that generate more
than $30 trillion in annual economic output.  “It will be next year in the second semester for sure the
priority of our European presidency,” Letta, whose country
holds the leadership post in the second half of 2014, said
yesterday. “With Obama we discussed about the dream to sign
this agreement together before the end of next year.”  Talks on T-TIP began in July, and a second round to be held
in Brussels between Oct. 7 and Oct. 11 had to be canceled due to
the partial shutdown of the U.S. government, according to a
European Commission  overview . Officials have identified about 20
areas, ranging from  customs duties  to technical standards for
goods, that will need to be discussed, the Commission fact sheet
states.  Letta, 47, Italy’s third premier since 2011, is shifting
the burden to government bureaucracy from taxpayers in a bid to
spur his country’s  stagnant economy  as deficit cutting
continues.  The prime minister, speaking at the  Brookings Institution ,
said Italy risks a “lost generation” because of youth
unemployment.  The  unemployment rate  for people between the ages of 15 and
24 rose to a historic high of 40.1 percent in August from 39.7
percent the previous month, national statistics office Istat
said Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  