-- Italian Bank Profit May Rise on New Loan-Loan Provisions
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-10-17T10:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/italian-bank-profit-may-rise-on-new-loan-loan-provisions.html
Profit at  Italian banks  may rise if
a government proposal was approved to ease the tax treatment of
lenders’ loan-loss provisions, brokerage firms Mediobanca
Securities and Banca IMI SpA said.  Italy ’s cabinet on Tuesday reviewed a measure to allow
banks greater deductions for loan losses against their regional
tax bills, known as IRAP, according a draft of the country’s
2014 budget law. The final text approved by Prime Minister
Enrico Letta’s cabinet hasn’t been released. The law must be
passed by the Italian Parliament by the end of the year.  “If finally confirmed, the deductibility of loan-loss
provisions from the IRAP taxable income would have a significant
positive impact on the P&L of Italian banks,” Manuela Meroni,
an analyst at Banca IMI, wrote in a note today.  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA ,  Unione di Banche Italiane SCPA (UBI)  and  Banco
Popolare SC (BP)  would be “the most positively impacted,” she said.  Under current law, loan losses are included in the taxable
income to calculate the regional tax, which on average reduces
banks’ revenue, net of amortization and administrative expenses,
by about 5 percent.  Last year, Italian lenders set aside about 24 billion euros
($33 billion) for bad loans, according to Bologna, Italy-based
research firm Prometeia, an amount that would lower regional tax
payments by more than 1 billion euros under the proposed rules.
In 2012,  Unione di Banche Italiane SCPA , Italy’s fourth-largest
bank, paid more than 47 million euros in regional taxes on its
loan-loss provisions, according to its annual report.  “We calculate the earnings impact of the newly proposed
IRAP regime could on average” boost 2014 earnings by 7 percent
for the Italian banks Mediobanca covers, Riccardo Rovere, an
analyst at the firm, wrote in a note today. The tax may lift
profit by 5 percent, according to Matteo Ghilotti, an analyst at
Equita Sim.  In 2015, the potential positive impact on banks’ net income
would be 11 percent, Banca IMI’s Meroni wrote. Rovere put it at
5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  