-- Japan Panel May Propose Taxing Autos by Emissions, Chairman Says
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-10-17T05:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/japan-panel-may-propose-taxing-autos-by-emissions-chairman-says.html
A Japanese panel said it’s close to
recommending that carbon dioxide emissions be included in
calculating a car levy as part of an overhaul of the nation’s
tax system.  The advisory group, appointed by the Ministry of Internal
Affairs and Communication, will probably propose that the
current automobile tax be based on emissions together with
engine size to encourage sales of environmentally friendly
vehicles, Naohiko Jinno, chairman of the panel, said in an
interview this week, without being more specific. The proposed
new tax structure will be drafted as early as this month and
submitted to the ministry, he said.  The annual levy may be changed so that motorists pay a
higher duty in the first year of ownership and the panel is also
studying the level of taxation on minicars, with many members
opposed to maintaining the current favorable tax treatment, he
said. An auto acquisition tax would also probably be abolished
as part of the overhaul, resulting in an estimated loss of 190
billion yen ($1.9 billion) in income to  Japan ’s local
governments, according to Jinno.  The panel discussions are part of a revamp in Japan’s
taxation system following a decision by Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s government to go ahead with an increase in national sales
tax. The reforms to the tax code have to be approved by early
next year.  In Japan, the automobile tax for cars ranges from 29,500
yen ($300) to 111,000 yen a year, depending on engine size. For
minicars, it’s 7,200 yen annually, according to the transport
ministry.  Automakers have been calling for the government to provide
tax relief as the last time Japan raised the sales tax, in April
1997, it helped trigger a 1 million-unit decline in domestic
 auto sales , according to the Japan Automobile Manufacturers
Association.  In 1996, a rush in last-minute buying led to a 6 percent
increase in vehicle sales to 7.29 million units in Japan. A year
later, the market was cut to 6.28 million units. Since then,
annual sales in the industry have remained below 6 million
units.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  