-- Jefferson County Bankruptcy Judge Rejects Sewer Claims
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-10-17T22:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/jefferson-county-bankruptcy-judge-rejects-sewer-claims.html
Sewer customers of Jefferson County,
Alabama, who sued over $3 billion in corruption-tainted bonds
can’t collect money in the county’s bankruptcy, a federal judge
ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett today granted the
county’s request to throw out claims related to a pair of
lawsuits that threaten to invalidate the sewer-related debt.
Bennett’s reasoning may make it easier for the county to end
those lawsuits as part of its proposed bankruptcy-exit plan.  Lawyers for sewer customers are trying to save the cases,
which target  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , a Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
unit, bond insurers and others over their roles in helping the
county issue more than $3 billion in sewer-related debt.  Bennett said the lawyers can press their objections to the
county’s bankruptcy-exit plan. Should Bennett approve that plan
next month, the county would end the lawsuits as part of a
settlement with JPMorgan and other creditors.  At least one of the lawsuits involved an allegation that is
“really the county’s claim,” Bennett said today. Under the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code, if the county has a right to bring a
claim, it also has the right to settle it, even if the claim is
part of a lawsuit the county didn’t file.  New Concessions  Also today, county commissioners said they may cancel a
$1.84 billion debt-reduction settlement tied to the county’s
bankruptcy-exit plan unless creditors offer about $350 million
in new concessions.  To end almost two years in bankruptcy, the county reached a
deal in June with creditors that hold the majority of about $3
billion in outstanding sewer-system debt. Under that proposal,
creditors would split about $1.84 billion in cash instead of
pressing for full repayment.  Creditors voted overwhelmingly to support the current plan.
Those holding about $3.9 billion of the county’s debt voted in
favor while holders of only about $18 million have opposed the
plan, county attorney Patrick Darby said in court.  The only “substantive” objections were filed by lawyers
behind the two lawsuits, on behalf of their clients, Darby said.  The bankruptcy is tied to a sewer refinancing tainted by
political corruption. In 2009, JPMorgan agreed to a settlement
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over payments
its bankers were accused of making to people tied to county
politicians to win business.  JPMorgan, based in New York, paid the county $75 million in
that settlement and has given up more than $657 million in swaps
claims it held.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of  Alabama  (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  