-- Jobs Right as Apple Customers Prefer 5s to Cheaper IPhone
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-10-17T00:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/jobs-right-as-apple-consumers-prefer-5s-to-cheaper-iphone-tech.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  co-founder Steve Jobs,
who emphasized high-end consumer gadgets over cheaper ones, may
have been right all along.  Last month, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  introduced the
colorful iPhone 5c, a less-expensive version of Apple’s
smartphone, to “serve even more customers” around the world.
It turns out people so far are more interested in its pricier,
feature-rich cousin, the 5s.  Three surveys in the past two weeks said the company’s new
high-end model is outselling the 5c by at least 2 to 1. KGI
Securities Co., a brokerage firm, slashed its quarterly
estimates for 5c sales by a third, and retailers like Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. and Target Corp. have reduced the phone’s price. The
 Wall Street Journal  reported Apple’s orders to suppliers for the
iPhone 5c have been cut by a third.  Customers are shrugging off the $99 iPhone 5c even as Apple
spends heavily to advertise the handset, which is last year’s
model repackaged in a colored plastic case. The 5c, which costs
$100 less than the souped-up iPhone 5s, is Apple’s attempt to
lure buyers in developing markets like  China , where  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and other Android phone makers lead. Even so,
big sales of the pricier model are a boon because they carry
fatter profit margins.  “Apple customers are still interested in premium products
from a premium brand,” said Laurence Balter, an analyst at
Oracle Investment Research in Fox Island,  Washington . “If
anything, the 5c is a failed experiment in trying to please the
masses. Apple should stay focused on the premium and let Samsung
take the lower end of the market.”  Too Pricey?  A survey released this week by  Consumer Intelligence
Research Partners LLC  found that 64 percent of U.S. iPhone
customers were buying the iPhone 5s, which sports a better
camera, faster processor chip and fingerprint-reading security
features and starts at $199 with a carrier contract. While the
company has let loose a barrage of television and other
advertising, the iPhone 5c, which doesn’t have the same
upgrades, was favored by 27 percent of buyers.  The early results give credence to concerns from investors
and analysts that Cupertino, California-based Apple priced the
iPhone 5c too high to appeal to more budget-conscious customers.
The device is struggling with the perception that it’s lower-quality than the iPhone 5s, as well as its $550 price without a
wireless contract, said Brian Blair, an analyst at  Wedge
Partners .  “In China, I’ve heard the joke that the C stands for
cheap,” Blair said. “Investors have had concerns since the
pricing was announced.”  Teresa Brewer, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment.  First Wave  Consumer Intelligence’s numbers, along with findings by
Pacific Crest Securities LLC and Canaccord Genuity Inc., suggest
that customers are viewing the 5c like they would older iPhone
models. The first wave of customers typically flock to Apple’s
latest device, rather than buying the cheaper version. That was
the case on the first day of sales last month, when customers
were disappointed to find retailers sold out of the expensive
model with the newest features -- yet with plenty of 5c handsets
to spare.  “To its detriment, it was targeting a certain subset of
the consumer base,” said Josh Lowitz, co-founder of Chicago-based Consumer Intelligence.  Lackluster demand, including discounts to as little as $50
being offered by major retailers, led Ming-Chi Kuo, an analyst
at KGI Securities, to lower his projection for fiscal fourth-quarter iPhone 5c sales to 11.4 million from 17 million. Apple
gets about  half its revenue  from all models of the iPhone, and
the device’s performance with customers affects the company’s
financial results and stock price. The company is set to report
fourth-quarter earnings on Oct. 28.  Margin Benefit  Demand for the higher-end iPhone 5s appears to be making up
for tepid 5c shipments. Apple said it sold a record 9 million
iPhones upon the debut of the new models last month, and
deliveries of some 5s handsets still take weeks. Apple also is
slated to introduce new iPad models at an Oct. 22 event.  More sales of the iPhone 5s than the 5c also will bolster
Apple’s profit margins, according to report by  Michael Walkley ,
an analyst at Canaccord Genuity.  Jonathan Rosen, 34, was waiting in line for the 5s at
Apple’s San Francisco store. The thinner and lighter design of
the 5s outweighs any price difference, especially because he’ll
be locked into a contract for two years, he said.  “Most people will err towards the one with the better
feature set,” said Rosen, who works in marketing. “The price
difference just isn’t substantial enough to want a 5c.”  5s Production  Blair said Apple is ramping up production of the 5s, though
that increase won’t be enough to make up for lower-than-expected
5c sales. He cut his total iPhone estimates for the quarter that
ends in December to 53 million to 54 million, from 58 million.  The network of manufacturers that  supply  Apple with
components for the iPhone 5c have been hurt as well. Career
Technology MFG Co., TPK Holding Co. and  FLEXium Interconnect
Inc. (6269)  are among companies that have seen shares fall in recent
days because of concerns about weak iPhone 5c demand.  The worries may be overblown because the ultimate success
or failure of the iPhone 5c won’t be known for months, said
Benedict Evans, an analyst at Enders Analysis in  London . Apple’s
most dedicated customers always rush out to buy the newest
product, leading to a surge in sales. Purchases of the iPhone 5c
will be more slow and steady, he said, because the handset is
targeted at consumers who now own an Android phone or an older
feature phone.  ‘Slow Burn’  “By definition, the 5c would not sell well to customers
who queue overnight on launch day -- it ought to be more of a
slow burn,” Evans said in an e-mail. “That means that it could
be selling according to plan and still be outsold by the 5s this
month. The question is what happens in six months’ time -- does
it fall off with the 5s or remain steady?”  Apple’s marketing strategy for the iPhone 5c has been
global, with television advertisements featuring people from
around the world talking on different models that come in green,
yellow, pink, blue and white. “For The Colorful” is the slogan
that has adorned billboards and print advertisements. Last year,
Apple spent $333.4 million on iPhone advertising, according to
research firm Kantar Media.  Customers haven’t yet been persuaded by the ads because the
phone shares many of the same components and features as iPhone
5, which was introduced in September 2012, said  Gene Munster , an
analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. in  Minneapolis .  “The iPhone 5c is a new phone technically, but it’s really
an old phone,” he said. “The iPhone 5s is selling
significantly better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  