-- Kasich Skirts Fellow Republicans to Expand Ohio Medicaid
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-10-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/kasich-skirts-fellow-republicans-to-expand-ohio-medicaid.html
As Congressional Republicans’ 16-day
fight to defund President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul
dissolved, Ohio Governor  John Kasich  was trying to find a way
around his party to expand Medicaid under the law.  Kasich, having failed to persuade Republican lawmakers to
add 275,000 adults to the state-federal health program, will ask
the seven-member Ohio Controlling Board, a separate legislative
panel that considers agency spending requests, to vote Oct. 21
on taking federal money for the expansion. Almost two-thirds of
the 60 Republican state representatives, including Speaker
William Batchelder, protested the move yesterday.  “It may be the only way to get it done,” former Governor
 Ted Strickland , a Democrat whom Kasich beat in 2010, told
reporters this week. “I disagree with Governor Kasich about a
lot of things, but he’s a fellow who has a lot of political
experience, and he knows that this is the right thing.”  Kasich, 61, a former Budget Committee chairman in the U.S.
House of Representatives, one-time presidential candidate and
first-term governor, is charting a course diametrically opposed
to the views of his party’s legislative leaders and more
conservative members. With polls showing rising support for the
law known as Obamacare, Kasich has said the Medicaid deal makes
fiscal sense and that the state has a moral duty to help the
poor despite Tea Party anger.  Vote Avoidance  Under the Affordable Care Act, states can expand Medicaid
to cover those earning about a third more than the federal
poverty level, or $15,856 annually for an individual and $26,951
for a family of three this year, according to the  Kaiser Family
Foundation , a  Menlo Park , California-based nonprofit group that
studies health issues. It said Ohio would be the 25th state to
take that step. The U.S. government would pay all the added cost
for the first three years and at least 90 percent after that.  Seven of 30 Republican governors are expanding Medicaid,
including  New Jersey ’s  Chris Christie ,  Jan Brewer  in  Arizona  and
 Rick Snyder  in  Michigan , according to Kaiser. While Brewer
carried through her threat to veto unrelated bills until
lawmakers relented, Kasich is trying to skirt a full vote in his
Republican-led legislature.  In a perennial presidential battleground that Obama won
twice, Ohio Republicans control all statewide elective offices.
Kasich, a former state senator and nine-term congressman,
included the Medicaid expansion in his budget proposal in
February only to see lawmakers remove it.  Moral Duty  Kasich said expansion makes fiscal sense because the
federal government would pay about $13 billion over seven years
to cover residents who otherwise would get care at emergency
rooms, often without being able to pay for it. Aside from the
money, it’s just right, the governor said.  “For those that live in the shadows of life, those who are
the least among us, I will not accept the fact that the most
vulnerable in our state should be ignored,” the governor said
in a Feb. 19 speech.  Kasich’s plan won support from the state Chamber of
Commerce and business groups such as the Ohio Hospital
Association, which said members stood to lose $7.4 billion
during the next decade from reduced federal reimbursements.  Even so, some Republican legislators opposed to the law
objected to expanding what they said is a flawed program,
without guarantees that a federal government already spending
too much will keep its promises.  End Run  “This will change medicine in this country,” Batchelder,
a Republican from Medina, told reporters yesterday in Columbus,
the state capital. Republican leaders are instead pursing bills
to “reform” Medicaid, and Batchelder said he signed the
protest letter because he has legal and constitutional issues
with Kasich’s bypassing the full legislature.  Former Governor Bob Taft, a Republican who preceded
Strickland, said Kasich showed leadership just as a “very small
minority” of Republicans in Congress shut down the government
and brought the U.S. to the brink of default.  “The minority seems to be driving the train right now,”
Taft, 71, told reporters in Columbus on Oct. 15.  Republicans of all stripes are furious, especially at
Kasich’s attempt to go around the legislature, said Tom
Zawistowski, executive director of the Portage County Tea Party.
He said members won’t support Kasich’s re-election next year.  “There’s really a lot of outrage,” Zawistowski said by
telephone. “It’s too much like what Obama does.”  Contrarian Governor  Kasich lacked the will to move his party, and bypassing the
full legislature will invite costly legal challenges that could
delay enrollments, said Representative  Chris Redfern  of Catawba
Island. He’s a Controlling Board member and the Ohio Democratic
Party chairman. The board consists of four Republican and two
Democratic lawmakers, plus a chairman appointed by Kasich.  While Republicans differ about Medicaid expansion, Kasich
is doing his duty, said Robert Bennett, a former state party
chairman and a Republican National Committee member.  Members unhappy with the expansion will credit Kasich for
balancing the budget while also cutting taxes, Bennett said by
telephone from Columbus. He said the governor was a
“compassionate conservative” before former President  George W. Bush  talked about it.  Kasich may pay a price, if his support for expansion limits
Republican turnout and excitement in 2014, said  Paul Beck , a
professor emeritus of political science at  Ohio State University 
in Columbus. The governor won in 2010 by 2 percentage points.  Even so, Kasich, who in Congress also bucked his party to
eliminate funding for the B-2 long-range bomber, seems to
delight in going against the grain, Beck said in an interview.  “He doesn’t want to be pigeonholed, it seems to me, as
somebody who is going to be totally predictable in toeing the
line with whatever his party’s ideology may be,” Beck said.
“That’s one thing that voters find attractive in him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  