-- Kerry Plans Talks in Europe on Topics From Iran to Syria
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-10-17T17:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/kerry-plans-talks-in-europe-on-topics-from-iran-to-syria.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry  is
going to Europe next week to talk with allies, including Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , about Iran,  Syria  and
Israeli-Palestinian peace talks.  Kerry is scheduled to meet in Paris with the Saudi foreign
minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, State Department spokeswoman
Jen Psaki said today. Kerry had postponed a meeting with the
Saudi diplomat earlier this month when talks with Afghan leaders
ran longer than planned.  The Saudis have signaled concern the U.S. won’t be tough
enough in negotiations aimed at preventing Iran from being able
to make nuclear weapons and unhappiness with the U.S. decision
to back away from strikes against Syria, where the kingdom is
arming rebels fighting President Bashar al-Assad’s government.  During a three-country swing from Oct. 21-24, Kerry is also
to meet in Paris with representatives of Arab League countries
about the Israeli-Palestinian talks.  In London, Kerry is due to meet with the Friends of Syria
core group, 11 nations supporting efforts to remove Assad, to
discuss prospects for a Geneva peace conference that would lead
to a political transition in Damascus.  International peace talks known as Geneva II, aimed at
ending the more than 2 1/2-year conflict, have been
provisionally scheduled for Nov. 23-24, Syria’s Deputy Prime
Minister Qadri Jamil told reporters today in Moscow. There was
no immediate confirmation of the timing from the U.S. and
 Russia .  The U.S. and other nations are “working toward” convening
a peace conference, Kerry said today in an interview on  National
Public Radio ’s “Morning Edition” broadcast.  Secular Syria  “Not that we know what the outcome is, but we know that
the goal is the implementation of the agreement reached a year
ago which says you have to have a transition government arrived
at by mutual consent,” he said. “Now I believe that if you
could pull together a negotiated settlement by which the Syrian
people choose the future of Syria, then you can ultimately
isolate the extremists and hold together a secular Syria.”  The Syria conflict and international talks to prevent Iran
from being able to produce nuclear weapons will also be on the
agenda when Kerry meets with Netanyahu in  Rome .  Netanyahu is scheduled to be in the Italian capital to meet
with Pope Francis, who met today with Palestinian President
 Mahmoud Abbas . Abbas invited the Pontiff to visit the  Middle
East .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  