-- Neanderthals Roamed With Bison East of Berlin, Find Shows
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-10-17T13:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/neanderthals-roamed-with-bison-east-of-berlin-find-shows.html
Fossils and flint tools found in a
 coal mine  prove that Neanderthal man roamed the region east of
Berlin during the last-but-one ice age, the Brandenburg state
government said.  The finds, in a mine run by Swedish power company
Vattenfall AB, date back 130,000 years. They are the oldest
evidence of human existence in the region, the Ministry of
Science, Research and Culture said in a  statement  sent by e-mail. Previously, evidence of human life in the region only went
back 40,000 years, according to the statement.  Archaeologists unearthed tools including a scraper for
removing flesh from animal skins, and a stone for shaping tools
and weapons. Twenty meters below the surface, they also found
remnants of wolf, horse, elk and bison at the Jaenschwalde
lignite mine, near the city of Cottbus and the Polish border.  “This find rewrites Brandenburg history,” Sabine Kunst,
the state official in charge of culture, said in the release.  Fossils show the surrounding habitat was a shallow, watery
dell where buckthorn, birch trees, herbs, grasses and moss grew,
according to researchers from Berlin’s Free University.  The climate was similar to northern  Scandinavia ’s today,
mild enough to allow Neanderthals to migrate there at least
during the summer months, Annette Kossler, a Free University
paleontologist, said in the release.  Vattenfall has contributed about 8 million euros ($10.9
million) toward funding the archaeologists’ work in the past
years, according to the statement.  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology,  Lance Esplund  on U.S. art, and  Greg
Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on movies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 