-- Nestle 2014 Revenue Growth May Reach Target, Bulcke Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-10-17T11:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/nestle-says-revenue-from-emerging-markets-accelerated.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, said it expects to achieve its targeted long-term sales
growth rate next year after an acceleration in revenue from Asia
and  Africa  in the third quarter.  Nestle’s sales growth excluding acquisitions, divestments
and currency swings may reach its goal for an average level of 5
percent to 6 percent in 2014, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  said today. The Vevey, Switzerland-based company also
reiterated it expects growth of “around” 5 percent this year.  “If this is the line we walk, that is the intention we
have,” Bulcke said at a press conference, saying the goal is
“doable” for 2014. “We see some colors coming back in many
areas of the world, in spite of some slowing down.”  Nestle’s acceleration in  emerging markets  over the past
three months contrasts with the slowdown seen by consumer-product companies like Unilever and  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  Still, the
Swiss company faces headwinds as European consumers cut
spending, which led to Nestle’s lowest pricing growth for the
first nine months of any year since 2003.  The  stock  rose as much as 3.2 percent, the biggest intraday
gain in four months. The shares traded 3.1 percent higher at
63.90 Swiss francs at 1:33 p.m. in Zurich. The shares have
gained 7.2 percent this year, compared with a 1.3 percent drop
in the Amsterdam-traded shares of  Unilever (UNA) , the maker of Magnum
ice cream.  Emerging Markets  Total nine-month revenue rose 4 percent to 68.35 billion
Swiss francs ($76 billion), the maker of Nespresso coffee
capsules said today in a  statement . That compares with a median
analyst estimate of 69 billion francs. Nestle’s emerging-market
revenue rose 8.8 percent in the first nine months of the year,
excluding acquisitions, divestments and currency swings,
speeding up from the first-half’s 8.2 percent pace.  The weakness of currencies such as the Brazilian real and
Indian rupee against the franc reduced nine-month sales by 2.5
percent, more than the 0.9 percent reduction in the first half.
The weakness of the Brazilian real and Indian rupee weighed on
sales growth, Chief Financial Officer Wan Ling Martello said.  Unilever said Sept. 30 that third-quarter revenue growth
had slowed due to a deterioration in emerging markets across
Asia. PepsiCo, the maker of Frito-Lay chips, said yesterday that
sales growth in Asia, the Middle East and Africa decelerated to
6 percent in the period, down from 14 percent in the previous
three months.  Market Reaction  Nestle’s performance in emerging markets was “the
acceleration that the market was looking for,” said  Warren
Ackerman , an analyst at Societe Generale.  The growth was helped by gains exceeding 10 percent in
Africa and   Indonesia  in the first nine months, and single-digit
gains in the Middle East and  India , Nestle said. Growth in  China 
slowed to high-single-digits, Martello said.  Nestle’s revenue gained 4.4 percent excluding acquisitions,
divestments and currency swings. The median  estimate  of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for growth of 4.5 percent.  After Unilever and Danone, and following Nestle’s
performance so far this year, the Swiss’ company’s third-quarter
sales were “solid (and somewhat dull), which is probably all
that Nestle’s shareholders were hoping for,” Andrew Wood, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote.  Nestle reiterated it expects improvement in underlying
earnings per share and the operating margin based on constant
currencies in 2013.  The volume of goods sold increased 3 percent, matching the
analyst estimate, and an improvement from the 2.7 percent uptick
in the first half of the year. Pricing added 1.4 percentage
points to growth, compared with the 1.5 percent analyst
estimate.  L’Oreal Stake  Nestle is “serious” about divesting underperforming
businesses, though it doesn’t want to give a timeframe, Bulcke
said. He also said the company is keeping “all options open”
over when exactly in 2014 it will announce its decision over
what to do with its stake of about 29 percent in  L’Oreal SA. (OR)   Analysts have said Jenny Craig diet centers and PowerBar
snacks are candidates for divestment. Bulcke declined to comment
on whether they’re for sale. Nestle said Jenny Craig continues
to be “challenged.”  Bulcke also declined to comment on a report in Repubblica
today that said the food company made an offer to buy Ferrero
SpA, the Italian chocolatier that makes Nutella hazelnut spread.
The talks are at a preliminary stage, according to the article,
which didn’t say how it got the information. Ferrero has
received no takeover bid and the company isn’t for sale,
Giovanni Ferrero, the company’s CEO, said in a statement.  Nestle declined to comment further on its 2013 sales growth
outlook except to say it expects an acceleration in the fourth
quarter.  When asked whether 4.5 percent is around 5 percent, Bulcke
said “I don’t know, but Versailles is around Paris. Good
question though.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  