-- Nestle Posts Nine-Month Sales Growth Below Full-Year Goal
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-10-17T06:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/nestle-posts-nine-month-sales-growth-below-full-year-goal-1-.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, reported nine-month sales that were below its full-year
target rate, highlighting the difficult environment faced by the
makers of consumer products.  Revenue gained 4.4 percent excluding acquisitions,
divestments and currency swings, the Vevey, Switzerland-based
maker of Crunch chocolate bars and Carnation evaporated milk
said today in a  statement . The median  estimate  of 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for growth of 4.5 percent.  Food companies are grappling with an economic slowdown in
emerging markets and ongoing weakness in Europe, which led
Nestle to report the smallest gain in pricing for the first nine
months of any year since 2003.  Unilever (UNA)  said last month revenue
growth weakened in the third quarter as  emerging markets  slowed.
Danone cut its full-year forecast yesterday after a product-safety scare and regulatory problems in China weighed on infant
formula sales.  “After the ‘excitement’ of Unilever’s reduced third-quarter sales guidance, Danone’s third-quarter sales miss and
full-year profit warning, and Nestle’s disappointing year-to-date performance, third-quarter sales were solid (and somewhat
dull), which is probably all that Nestle’s shareholders were
hoping for,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., said by e-mail.  ‘Right Time’  The  stock  has gained 4 percent this year, compared with a
3.1 percent drop in the Amsterdam-traded shares of Unilever.
Danone has gained 3.9 percent.  “Today’s challenging environment is the right time for us
to further reinforce the fundamentals of our business,” Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  said in the statement, enumerating
innovation, distribution and consumer engagement. The company
reiterated it expects full-year organic growth of about 5
percent and improvement in underlying earnings per share and the
operating margin based on constant currencies.  The volume of goods sold increased 3 percent, matching the
analyst estimate, and an improvement from the 2.7 percent uptick
in the first half of the year. Pricing added 1.4 percentage
points to growth, compared with the 1.5 percent analyst
estimate.  Sales Acceleration  In contrast to Unilever, Nestle said nine-month sales
growth accelerated to 5.6 percent in Asia, Oceania and  Africa 
zone from the first half’s 5 percent pace.  That implies a 6.8
percent gain in the third quarter, according to  Warren Ackerman ,
an analyst at  Societe Generale . The growth was helped by gains
above 10 percent in Africa,  Indonesia , the  Middle East  and
India, Nestle said.  “This is the acceleration that the market was looking
for,” Ackerman said.  Organic sales growth for the Asia, Oceania and Africa zone
was 5.6 percent, accelerating from the 5 percent pace of the
first half.  Separately, Nestle spokesman Robin Tickle declined to
comment on a report in Repubblica today that said the food
company made an offer to buy Ferrero SpA, the Italian chocolate
maker that makes Nutella hazelnut spread. The talks are at a
preliminary stage, according to the article, which didn’t say
how it got the information. A spokesman for Ferrero called the
report “groundless” and said the company isn’t for sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  