-- No More Formaldehyde in Shampoo as J&J Girds for Rules
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-10-17T13:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/no-more-formaldehyde-in-shampoo-as-j-j-girds-for-rules.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  baby shampoo
contains an ingredient that might give parents pause:
formaldehyde.  Deemed a “probable human carcinogen” by the U.S.
government, formaldehyde is one of 164 potentially harmful
chemicals targeted under a new  California  law that imposes
stricter safety standards on a range of products made by such
companies as J&J and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  The law also takes aim
at untreated mineral oils in lotions and  acetaldehyde , which can
irritate the skin and is used in perfume.  Regulators are responding to pressure from consumer
advocates who say U.S. efforts to ensure the safety of cosmetics
and household cleaners lag behind  Europe ’s. California’s
approach reflects growing concern over the cumulative effect of
chemicals, since consumers use multiple products, said Debbie
Raphael, director of the state’s Department of Toxic Substances
Control, which administers the law.  While the law phases in over a couple of years, companies
are already adjusting to the new regulatory environment.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  says that by 2015 it will require suppliers to
phase out 10 as yet unidentified chemicals from cleaners, make-up and other personal-care products. J&J plans to make its baby
shampoo formaldehyde-free by year-end and to eliminate other
potentially harmful components from its lineup by 2015.  Consumer Concerns  “As our products and policies evolve, they reflect the
latest science, new regulations and -- just as importantly --
consumer concerns,” said Carol Goodrich, a J&J spokeswoman.  P&G and J&J say their products are safe and that all
ingredients are well within limits that could be considered
hazardous.  California laws often set a pattern followed by other
states. The enactment of the Safer Consumer Products law has
stirred controversy, with critics saying it fails to distinguish
between safe and unsafe levels of substances -- instead seeking
to eliminate them altogether.  P&G and  Clorox Co. (CLX)  have thrown their support behind a pair
of federal product-safety bills. Clorox wants a federal standard
so “you don’t have a patchwork quilt of all these different
state EPAs telling what you can do and what you can’t do,” said
Chief Executive Officer Don Knauss. “The packaging
ramifications are enormous.”  The 40-company Standard & Poor’s 500 Consumer Staples Index
gained 17 percent this year through yesterday, compared with a
21 percent increase for the  S&P 500 .  While the federal proposals are still being written,
consumer groups say they’re concerned that they’ll lack the
teeth of the California law.  Fetal Development  The safety of consumer products became an issue for many
Americans last decade after studies showed bisphenol-a, a
hardening agent used in plastic bottles and food containers, can
disrupt hormone levels and fetal and infant development. The
 Food and Drug Administration  banned BPA in baby bottles and cups
last year, though the chemical is allowed in canned-food linings
and cash-register receipts, among other uses.  Product-safety advocates have since turned their attention
to cosmetics and household cleaners. The FDA bans or restricts
11 substances from cosmetics, including chloroform, once used in
dyes, oils and other make-up ingredients, and vinyl chloride,
once a propellant in hair spray. By contrast, the European Union
bans or restricts almost 1,400 substances, including
formaldehyde and parabens, preservatives found in makeup and
shampoos.  Harmful Chemicals  “There is no question that the science is there to prove
these chemicals are harmful,” said Janet Nudelman, co-founder
of the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics, a non-profit group based in
 San Francisco .  Consumer advocates focused their efforts on California
because it often sets the regulatory tone for the rest of the
U.S. They organized boycotts, commissioned studies and polled
consumers, while fighting pushback from trade groups that
insisted their products were safe.  The new law went into effect on Oct. 1. The state has
already issued a 164-item list of priority chemicals for
testing, including formaldehyde and BPA. By April, it will
identify as many as five so-called priority chemical-product
combinations in wide use for further examination. That will be
followed by a process, including public commentary, of as long
as a year to determine whether a chemical gets listed.  Finding Alternatives  Once a substance is listed, manufacturers must determine
whether alternatives exist, a process that can take as long as
18 months, said Karl Palmer, who oversees the initiative for the
Toxic Substances department. For companies that don’t cooperate,
California will maintain a public “failure to comply” list,
issue warnings and can ultimately ban an ingredient.  With California regulators still identifying which
chemicals to prioritize, most companies are refraining from
reformulating their products. Still, P&G has pledged to
eliminate the antibacterial triclosan and fragrance ingredient
diethyl phthalate from all products by next year.  Target Corp. (TGT) 
last week announced a program that will reward suppliers that
remove harmful substances from their products.  Finding alternatives to chemicals deemed unsafe isn’t easy,
according to Neal Langerman, CEO of Advanced Chemical Safety, a
San Diego-based health, safety and environmental protection
consulting firm. Companies need four to six months to develop
and test a new formulation, he said, plus about a year to change
formulations and reconfigure production, and that doesn’t
include labeling and packaging alterations.  “Finding a substitute can be exceedingly difficult, which
means it can be exceedingly expensive,” said Langerman, who
added that companies may pass costs onto shoppers.  Ultimately, however, changing consumer attitudes will force
companies to adjust, he said.  “They want their product to sell, and in the long run,
they’re going to address public perception,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  