-- Nokia Trying to Copy Jobs Hired Second Choice Elop, Ollila Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-10-17T15:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/nokia-trying-to-copy-jobs-hired-second-choice-elop-ollila-says.html
Stephen Elop, who quit as  Nokia (NOK1V)  Oyj
chief last month after failing to revive sales during his three-year tenure, was the mobile-phone maker’s second choice for a
new leader when hired in 2010, according to a former chairman.  The Finnish company was looking to replicate  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
success with consumers when it sought a new chief executive
officer,  Jorma Ollila , Nokia’s chairman at the time, wrote in
his memoir published today. His preferred candidate, not named
in the book and identified as deputy chief at a U.S. technology
company, turned the job down for personal reasons, prompting
Nokia to set its sights on Elop, Ollila said.  “I asked myself several questions,” said Ollila, who ran
Nokia as CEO from 1992 to 2006. “Elop seemed to be full of
words and ideas, but was he able to delegate enough? Was he
enough of a product person, because we needed someone to reach
similar feats as  Steve Jobs .”  Nokia, based in Espoo, Finland, was struggling to regain
relevance in smartphones after Apple co-founder and then-CEO
Jobs introduced the iPhone in 2007.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system followed and Nokia’s smartphone shipments fell
by almost two-thirds since a 2010 peak of 104 million units,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Replacing
Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo as chief, the company chose Elop, who
introduced  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone operating system for
its smartphones in 2011.  Last month, two years after Elop struck the deal with
Microsoft, Nokia agreed to sell its entire mobile-phone division
to the Redmond, Washington-based  software company  amid plunging
sales. Elop is moving to Microsoft as part of the deal and is
also a candidate to become its CEO.  ‘False Impressions’  Nokia failed to identify the threat posed by Apple, said
Ollila, currently the chairman of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   “We lived amid many assumptions and false impressions,”
said Ollila, 63. “Important telecommunications operators had
taught us over a long time period in the U.S. that there is no
demand for smartphones that are too expensive, for example more
than $300.”  “At the same time, Apple introduced the iPhone with a
price tag of more than $600,” he said. “Apple had created
something entirely new: an exceptional user experience and a
setting in which the phone was key to an ecosystem of services
and applications.”  “Mahdoton menestys -- Kasvun paikkana Nokia” is published
by Otava (480 pages, 39.70 euros, $54.30.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  