-- Nolan Ryan Retires as MLB Rangers’ Top Executive After Six Years
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-17T20:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/nolan-ryan-retires-as-mlb-rangers-top-executive-after-six-years.html
Nolan Ryan  said he’s retiring as the
 Texas Rangers ’ chief executive officer, ending a six-year tenure
in which he oversaw a team that had four 90-win seasons and
twice made the  World Series .  “This is the right time for me to step down,” the Hall of
Fame pitcher, who played for the Rangers from 1989 to 1993, said
in a statement. “I am extremely proud of what this organization
has accomplished. On the field, we have enjoyed great success at
the major-league level.”  He said he would leave at the end of the month.  Ryan, 66, agreed in April to stay on this season as the
Rangers’ CEO after losing his title of team president a month
earlier, when Jon Daniels was promoted from general manager to
president of baseball operations and Rick George took over as
president of business operations.  Ryan was named president of the Rangers in 2008 and two
years later was part of a group that purchased the franchise in
a bankruptcy auction. The Rangers reached the World Series that
season, making Ryan the first Hall of Fame player to advance to
postseason play in the role of team president or GM since 1967,
when Stan Musial was general manager of the  St. Louis Cardinals .  Ryan took over as CEO of the Rangers in 2011, when the team
lost in the World Series for the second straight season. Texas
has won at least 90 games the past four years, missing the
playoffs this year.  ‘Good Hands’  “This organization is in good hands,” said Ryan, who
threw a record seven no-hitters and is  Major League Baseball ’s
career strikeout leader with 5,714. “I am leaving with a lot of
great memories from my tenure here and I know the organization
will continue to thrive in the years to come.”  The CBS affiliate in  Dallas  and  Fort Worth   reported  this
month that Ryan and Daniels had to be separated by manager  Ron Washington  after a confrontation that involved the firing of
bench coach Jackie Moore. The Rangers said on Oct. 2 that they
wouldn’t renew the contracts of first-base coach Dave Anderson
and Moore, who had been picked by Ryan to replace Art Howe as
the team’s bench coach.  Rangers Co-Chairmen Ray Davis and Bob Simpson thanked Ryan
in a statement for his leadership over the past six years.  “Nolan has meant so much to this franchise and to our
fans,” the Rangers said in a statement. “We thank him for his
many contributions, including his role in helping to develop one
of the finest baseball-operations staff in the game. Today we
turn the page on what we believe is a very bright future for
this organization. We wish Nolan all the best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  