-- Norilsk Swoops Into Bond Market on U.S. Debt Deal: Russia Credit
-- B y   M a r k   S w e e t m a n ,   N a t a s h a   D o f f   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-10-18T14:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/norilsk-swoops-into-bond-market-on-u-s-debt-deal-russia-credit.html
OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel , the world’s
largest producer of nickel and palladium, swooped into the
Eurobond market after the U.S. debt-ceiling deal drove its
yields to a record low.  Norilsk is selling $1 billion of seven-year notes with a
yield of 5.55 percent, a person familiar with the offering, who
asked not to be identified because the terms aren’t set, said
today. The yield on its dollar bond due April 2018 fell 17 basis
points to 4.48 percent at 5:43 p.m. in Moscow, the lowest since
the sale six months ago. That compares with a  rate  of 6.49
percent for emerging-market metals and mining companies in
JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEMBI Broad Index.  Emerging-market yields tumbled yesterday and Poland sold
five-year notes in euros after U.S. lawmakers agreed on a deal
to end a 16-day government shutdown and extend the nation’s
borrowing authority until next year.  OAO Gazprombank (GZPR) , Russia’s
third-largest lender, is also considering a euro bond sale, a
person familiar with the lender’s plans said yesterday.  “Now that the shutdown is over we are seeing interest from
buyers,” Konstantin Artemov, who oversees $500 million as a
 money manager  at Raiffeisen Capital in Moscow, said by phone
yesterday. “The news is positive for all risk assets. Appetite
for risk has returned.”  S&P Boost  Standard & Poor’s  lifted Norilsk’s outlook to stable on
Oct. 7, citing a revised shareholders’ accord between Chief
Executive Officer  Vladimir Potanin  and Oleg Deripaska’s United
Co. Rusal on dividends that provided the metals producer with
greater flexibility. Norilsk is rated BBB- at S&P, the lowest
investment grade and one step below the sovereign.  It’s “important” for investors that the shareholders
dispute is over, Tatiana Dneprovskaya, an analyst at UralSib
Capital in Moscow, said yesterday by phone.  Petr Likholitov, a spokesman for Norilsk Nickel, declined
to comment when asked by Bloomberg in Moscow yesterday.  U.S. lawmakers approved a deal to fund the government at
Republican-backed spending levels through Jan. 15, 2014, and
suspend the debt limit through Feb. 7. The news provided an
“expected impetus” for foreign-bond sales, according to
Alexander Sklemin, deputy head of credit research at Raiffeisen
Bank International AG in Vienna.  ‘Less Robust’  While primary market activity “could pick up,” it will be
“less robust and less opportunistic than in the first half of
this year,” he said by e-mail yesterday.  Russian issuers swept to market to take advantage of
unprecedented stimulus from the world’s biggest central banks.
OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s biggest non-state crude producer, sold $3
billion of bonds in April in its first offering to international
investors for more than two years.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds maturing in March 2030
fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.83
percent today. The extra yield on Russia’s dollar debt over
Treasuries fell one basis point to 214, according to JPMorgan
indexes.  The Norilsk shareholders’ agreement adapting dividend
targets to market conditions was “good news,” Egor Fedorov, an
analyst at ING Groep NV in Moscow, said by phone yesterday.
“The sale timing is quite good as the U.S. managed to avoid a
default.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Sweetman in Moscow at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  