-- Norwegian Air to Link London Gatwick to New York, Florida
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-10-17T15:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/norwegian-air-to-link-london-gatwick-to-new-york-l-a-florida.html
     Oct. 17 (Bloomberg  ) --  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS)  will fly
to three U.S. cities from  Gatwick airport  starting next year,
expanding the discount carrier’s long-haul reach and restoring
links between London’s second-biggest airport and  New York .  The airline will add the routes in July, serving New York’s
John F. Kennedy airport three times a week and  Fort Lauderdale ,
Florida, and  Los Angeles  twice weekly, it said today at a press
briefing in London. One-way fares will start at 149 pounds
($240) for New York, 199 pounds for Los Angeles and 179 pounds
for Fort Lauderdale, 20 miles north of Miami.  “There’s great demand for high-quality flights at a low
fare between the U.K. and the U.S., particularly to and from
 London Gatwick , where no other airline currently offers these
routes,” Chief Executive Officer Bjoern Kjos said.  Norwegian Air is leveraging lower operating costs of  Boeing
Co. (BA) ’s all-composite 787 Dreamliner to offer low-price trans-Atlantic trips at a profit in a bid to succeed where long-haul
no-frills carriers such as Laker Airways have failed. Profitable
discount long-haul operations hinge on having an established
short-haul network and the 787, Kjos said, even after technical
glitches ranging from brake faults to a cockpit oxygen-supply
flaw marred the plane’s entry into the fleet.  “The first aircraft we got has performed marvelously,”
the executive said. With “the second one, there have been a lot
of small items.”  291 Seats  The twin-aisle Dreamliner’s fuel efficiency and low
maintenance requirements make it and the  Airbus SAS A350 (EAD)  “the
only aircraft suitable” for low-cost long-distance flights, he
said. Norwegian Air has configured its 787s with 291 seats.  The airline, which has its headquarters in Fornebu,  Norway ,
ordered 222 Boeing and Airbus short-haul airliners last year
valued at 127 billion kroner ($21.4 billion).  It began long-haul operations in May that currently include
five weekly services from Stockholm and Oslo to Bangkok and six
from the two Nordic cities to New York. A third 787 will join
the fleet by the end of this year, another four will enter
service in 2014 and an eighth will start flying in 2015.  The new long-distance routes out of Gatwick will expand
Norwegian Air’s operations from the current 320 flights a week
on 25 routes, Kjos said.  Gatwick Role  By the 2014 summer schedule, the carrier fly 375 weekly
connections to 33 destinations from Gatwick. That will include
the route to New York, a link the U.K. airport lost after the
2007 Open Skies agreement widening flight access between the
U.S. and European Union enabled carriers to switch the services
to  London Heathrow , the trade bloc’s busiest airport.  “We do have a very strong heritage of people flying to and
from Gatwick for many years trans-Atlantic,” Gatwick Chief
Executive Officer Stewart Wingate said in an interview. Before
2007, almost 4.1 million passengers flew from the terminal to
U.S. destinations, also including Philadelphia and Detroit,
compared with 1.32 million today, he said. Current U.S. routes
from Gatwick are Orlando and Tampa in Florida, and  Las Vegas .  Norwegian Air may open a crew base at Gatwick eventually,
Kjos said, adding that the airline has started recruiting flight
attendants in New York, with a goal of hiring about 150 people.
Other crew bases include  Florida  with 70 to 100 employees and
Bangkok with about 200, he said.  EU Presence  The airline is also applying for a permanent Irish air
operator’s certificate as it seeks to establish a low-cost base
for its long-haul division. A decision on the application is
expected in December or January and may include having a small
team of employees based in Ireland, Kjos said.  “It’s only a matter of traffic rights,” the executive
said. Basing planes in Ireland, a European Union country, opens
up a range of destinations that would otherwise be off limits
due to a lack of bilateral agreements with non-EU member Norway,
he said. “We need time to get access to the different places we
want to fly to.”  Within  Europe , Norwegian Air is expanding its short-haul
network by adding routes from Gatwick to the Mediterranean
islands of Corfu, Cyprus, Santorini and Sicily, and to the
Hungarian capital Budapest, while boosting the number of flights
on nine existing routes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  