-- Nucor Profit Beats Estimates as Auto Demand Recovers
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-10-17T13:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/nucor-profit-beats-estimates-as-auto-demand-recovers.html
Nucor Corp. (NUE) , the largest U.S.
steelmaker by market value, reported third-quarter earnings that
beat analysts’ estimates amid a recovery in the U.S. auto
industry.  Net income increased to $147.6 million, or 46 cents a
share, from $110.3 million, or 35 cents, a year earlier, the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company said today in a
statement. Profit excluding one-time items was 49 cents a share,
surpassing the 39-cent average of 19  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales climbed to $4.94 billion, exceeding the $4.8
billion average estimate.  Carmakers are on track this year for the most deliveries in
the U.S. since 2007, according to researcher Autodata Corp.
That’s helping demand at Nucor and other U.S. steelmakers, with
domestic plants operating at an average of 78 percent of
 capacity  in the third quarter, compared with 75 percent a year
earlier, according American Iron and Steel Institute data.  Nissan Motor Co. and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG are among
Nucor customers, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The average price of hot-rolled steel coil, a benchmark
product used in automobiles and appliances, increased 1.7
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier to $646 a ton,
according to  data  from The Steel Index.  Nucor rose 0.7 percent to $49.82 yesterday in  New York . The
shares have gained 15 percent this year.  Nucor is starting up a plant in  Louisiana  to refine  iron
ore  with natural gas instead of the traditional coke made from
coal, creating a product that can be used in Nucor’s electric
furnaces. One of the storage domes at the factory collapsed in
September, delaying startup until the end of the year, Nucor
said in a Sept. 26 statement.  (Nucor scheduled a conference call at 2 p.m. New York time,
which can be accessed at the company’s website
 http://www.nucor.com .)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  