-- Obama Says Fiscal Battle With Congress Ended With No Winners
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-10-17T16:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/obama-says-fiscal-battle-with-congress-ended-without-any-winners.html
President  Barack Obama  criticized
congressional Republicans who he said engaged in ideological
brinkmanship that damaged the U.S. and said both parties must
start serious negotiations on budget priorities.  Speaking hours after he signed into law legislation to
raise the federal debt ceiling and fund the government into
2014, Obama said the most recent confrontation has slowed the
economy and shook the public’s faith in government.  “There are no winners here,” Obama said in the State
Dining Room of the White House. “The American people are
completely fed up with Washington.”  Obama said the U.S. can recover by Republicans and
Democrats working together and finishing by the end of the year
a “responsible” budget, passage of a new immigration law and
approval of a farm bill.  The partial government shutdown that began Oct. 1 has taken
$24 billion out of the  U.S. economy , according to  Standard &
Poor’s , and rattled consumers and businesses, while the threat
of a U.S. default prompted  Fitch Ratings  put the government of
the world’s biggest economy on watch for a possible credit
downgrade two days ago.  Americans in October were the most pessimistic about the
nation’s economic outlook in almost two years, according to the
monthly Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index. Other reports today
showed more Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week.  Next Round  While the legislation passed by Congress last night
resolved the immediate deadlock, it may set the stage for
another round of confrontations early next year.  As Obama seeks to advance the rest of his agenda, from
immigration laws to  climate change , his victory in this
confrontation is no guarantee that he can reach compromises with
Republicans over the rest of his second term.  Senator  Ted Cruz  of Texas was among the Republican
lawmakers vowing to keep trying to chip away at the president’s
health-care law. Their demands that the law be stripped of
funding or delayed and the president’s refusal to concede led to
the standoff.  “We hear some members who pushed for the shutdown say they
were doing it to save the American economy,” Obama said. “But
nothing has done more to undermine our economy these past three
years than the kind of tactics that create these manufactured
crises.”  U.S. stocks rose today, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index past its record close, as investors assessed the effects
of the budget standoff. The benchmark  index (COMFBTWR)  increased 0.3
percent to 1,726.26 at 12:01 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  