-- Obama Looks to Move Past Debt as Italian Leader Visits
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-10-17T17:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/obama-looks-to-move-past-debt-as-italian-leader-visits.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
congratulated President  Barack Obama  on his “success” in
getting opponents in Congress to raise the U.S. debt ceiling
ahead of a default, saying that resolution of the standoff is
important to stability in the global markets.  “It’s his success but it’s also our success,” Letta said
to reporters at the end of a meeting today with Obama in the
Oval Office of the White House.  Yesterday’s decision “was very important for the stability
in the markets in the world, in  Europe  and in Italy,” Letta
said. It was will be critical to controlling interest rates, he
said, which is important to Italy’s plans for economic recovery
“because we have such a big debt.”  Obama congratulated Letta for the steps he’s taken toward
economic reform in  Italy  and his success in passing a budget.  “Italy is moving in the right direction,” Obama said.  The meeting between Obama and Letta comes as the U.S.
president turns his attention back to foreign policy after the
standoff with Republican lawmakers forced a partial federal
government shutdown, threatened a U.S. default and forced Obama
to cancel a planned trip to  Asia  earlier this month.  Obama, 52, and Letta, 47, said they also discussed a
proposed trans-Atlantic trade agreement, security concerns in
the  Middle East  and North Africa and cooperation among nations
in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Obama said Letta
invited him to Tuscany to “eat some very good food” and that
he hopes to take him up on the offer soon.  Global Impact  The U.S. debt fight had become a cause for concern among
European and Asian nations because of its potential impact on
the global economy.  Today’s meeting also comes two days after Letta’s cabinet
approved a deficit-cutting budget for next year with a labor-tax
cut and 3.5 billion euros ($4.7 billion) in spending reductions
to meet 2014 targets.  Letta, Italy’s third premier since 2011, is shifting the
burden to government bureaucracy from taxpayers in a bid to spur
the  stagnant economy  as deficit cutting continues.  Italy’s 1.6 trillion-euro economy, the third-biggest in the
euro area, contracted eight straight quarters as tax increases
curbed spending and investment.  Public-administration spending rose 0.6 percent in nominal
terms last year to 801 billion euros as Letta’s predecessor,
 Mario Monti , counted mainly on tax increases to strengthen the
budget and shield Italy from bond-market speculation.  Italy’s government said last month it plans to reduce the
deficit to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2014 from
its target of 3 percent this year. Italy’s 2 trillion-euro debt
is about 130 percent of GDP, the second-highest ratio behind
 Greece  in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  