-- Obama Said to Pick Former Pentagon Counsel for DHS Post
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-10-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/obama-said-to-pick-former-pentagon-counsel-johnson-for-homeland.html
President  Barack Obama  has decided
on Jeh Johnson, former Pentagon general counsel, as his next
 Homeland Security  secretary, an administration official said.  Johnson, 56, will be formally announced as the nominee by
Obama today, according to the official, who asked for anonymity
because the decision hasn’t been made public.  The nomination is subject to Senate confirmation. He would
replace  Janet Napolitano , who left the administration at the end
of August to become head of the  University of California  system.  Johnson, one of the president’s earliest supporters, was a
fundraiser and senior foreign policy adviser on Obama’s 2008
presidential campaign. Obama appointed him as Defense Department
general counsel on Feb. 10, 2009. He resigned last December and
returned to private practice as a partner in the Washington
office of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP.  As the top lawyer at the Pentagon, he was at the center of
some of the Obama administration’s highest-profile national
security issues. Johnson was directly involved in changing the
rules for military commissions such as those used to try accused
terrorists at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and responding to the 2010
release of classified documents by Wikileaks about the war in
 Afghanistan .  “He’s really a good choice,” said  Morris Davis , a former
chief military prosecutor at Guantanamo Bay who has worked with
Johnson. “He was in my view the best general counsel we had in
my 25 years in the  Air Force . He’s got the legal acumen, the
people skills, the organizational skills.”  Gays Policy  Johnson also helped lay the groundwork for ending the
Defense Department’s 18-year “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy
that barred gay service members from revealing their sexual
orientation.  Johnson led a study in 2010 with former Army General Carter Ham that found ending the ban wouldn’t harm military
effectiveness.  “We are convinced that the U.S. military can adjust and
accommodate this change just as it has others in history,”
their report said.  Last year, after the ban was lifted, Johnson participated
in the Pentagon’s first celebration of Gay Pride Month in June.  “This is the first time in history such an event has
occurred at the Pentagon,” Johnson said at a ceremony at which
more than 350 gay and lesbian service members and their
supporters overflowed the building’s auditorium.  Counterterrorism  He also oversaw the military’s counterterrorism policies.
Last November, he detailed the legal challenges that the U.S.
would face as it winds down its war against al-Qaeda, in a
speech that was one of the first descriptions of a possible
endpoint by an administration official.  “On the present course, there will come a tipping point --
a tipping point at which so many of the leaders and operatives
of al-Qaeda and its affiliates have been killed or captured and
the group is no longer able to attempt or launch a strategic
attack against the United States, such that al-Qaeda as we know
it, the organization that our Congress authorized the military
to pursue in 2001, has been effectively destroyed,” Johnson
said in his November 2012 speech before the Oxford Union, the
debating society in Oxford, England.  He also served as general counsel of the Air Force in
former President  Bill Clinton ’s administration and was an
assistant U.S. attorney in  Manhattan , where he prosecuted public
corruption cases.  Homeland Department  If confirmed, his responsibilities at the Department of
Homeland Security will go beyond national security. The agency,
with a $60 billion budget and 240,000 employees, has a broad
mandate that includes oversight of the  Federal Emergency
Management Agency , U.S. Coast Guard, Secret Service, Immigration
and Customs Enforcement and the  Transportation Security
Administration .  The National Immigration Law Center urged senators to
confirm Johnson, saying he would be “a strong manager of what
is undoubtedly one of the most complex cabinets within the
executive branch.”  The secretary will probably be among the administration
officials lobbying lawmakers on one of Obama’s policy
priorities: a restructuring of the U.S. immigration system.  The law center, which advocates on behalf of immigrants,
said it wants Johnson to fully implement directives to halt
deportations of young undocumented immigrants brought to the
U.S. as children.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  