-- Obesity Stalls at One-Third of U.S. Adults, CDC Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-10-17T19:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/obesity-stalls-at-one-third-of-u-s-adults-cdc-finds.html
The number of obese American adults
remained unchanged in 2012, continuing at least a decade-long
trend showing about one-third still affected by the condition, a
 U.S. report  found.  About 78 million U.S. adults are considered obese. The
majority -- more than 50 million -- are non-Hispanic white,
according to the report from the National Center for Health
Statistics, part of the U.S. Centers of Disease Control and
Prevention.  Obesity raises the risk of heart disease, diabetes, some
cancers, osteoarthritis, sleep apnea and stroke, the CDC has
said. Though the increase in obesity appears to have leveled off
since about 2000, the numbers are still too high, the agency
said in its report. Americans spend about $147 billion a year on
obesity-related health costs.  “The prevalence of obesity is still high in the U.S. but
it hasn’t changed. At least it’s not going up,” Cynthia Ogden,
an epidemiologist at the National Center for Health Statistics
in Hyattsville,  Maryland , and lead author of the report, said in
a telephone interview.  While more non-Hispanic white Americans are obese, the
prevalence of obesity is highest among non-Hispanic blacks and
Hispanics, the report showed. About 43 percent of Hispanics and
48 percent of blacks are obese, compared with 33 percent of
whites and 11 percent of Asians.  Calculating Obesity  Obesity is  measured  using body mass index, or BMI, a
calculation of weight and height. For example, a 5-foot, 4-inch
woman weighing 175 pounds (80 kilograms) has a BMI of 30. BMI of
30 or more is considered obese, while a BMI of 25 to 29.9 is
considered overweight, according to the National Institutes of
Health.  Using data from the  National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey , the research showed that the rates of
obesity for men and women didn’t significantly differ, except
among non-Hispanic black adults where about 57 percent of women
were obese compared with 37 percent of men.  Adults ages 40 to 59 years had the highest rates of
obesity, followed by those ages 20 to 39 and then adults ages 60
and older, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  