-- Oil Refineries Surges on Plan to Boost Profit: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-10-17T12:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/oil-refineries-surges-on-plan-to-boost-profit-tel-aviv-mover.html
Oil Refineries Ltd. (ORL)  rose the most in
four years after the loss-making manufacturer of refined crude
products announced a plan to boost earnings and raise funds.  The  shares  jumped 11 percent, the steepest gain since
October 2009, to 1.055 shekels at 3:24 p.m. in Tel Aviv. Trading
volume was more than six times the three-month average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock is the  worst performer  on
 Israel ’s TA-25 Index this year with a drop of 47 percent, after
posting losses in each of the past eight quarters. The benchmark
gauge fell 0.5 percent today.  The refiner plans to improve net income by cutting costs, a
move that may generate an additional $100 million in annual
operating profit during 2014, according to statement to the  Tel
Aviv  bourse. The company will also hold a rights offering for as
much as $150 million in the second half of December and majority
owner Israel Corp. may take part in the fundraising, it said.  “This is an attempt to inject funds into the company’s
coffers until refining margins will improve,” Sharon Naveh,
head of institutional and international sales at Migdal Capital
Markets Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by phone. “This is also a good
opportunity for Israel Corp. to increase its stake in in the
company at a comfortable price.”  Debt Commitments  Oil Refineries said it is also in talks with banks to
increase the availability of funds, enabling the company to meet
its debt commitments. The refiner’s shares have slumped 23
percent since Calcalist reported on Oct. 3 that bondholders will
request a cash injection from shareholder Israel Corp. to meet
imminent debt obligations.  Earlier this week, Standard & Poor’s Maalot lowered Oil
Refineries’ rating to IlBBB- from IlBBB+, citing poor
operational performance. The company is scheduled to repay $165
million of debt in the second half and about $330 million next
year, S&P said in its report.  Israel Corp., which  has a 37.08 percent stake  in Oil
Refineries, declined 1.3 percent to 1,800 shekels. The yield on
the refiner’s 4.6 percent bonds due June 2015 plunged 311 basis
points.  BP Plc’s refining market margin, a benchmark indicator for
global processing profits, slumped 30 percent to $13.60 a barrel
in the third quarter, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  