-- Hong Kong Proposes Removing Yuan-Conversion Limit on Locals
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-10-17T16:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/hong-kong-proposes-removing-yuan-conversion-limit-on-locals.html
The  Hong Kong  Monetary Authority has
proposed that Chinese authorities remove a 20,000 yuan ($3,280)
daily currency-conversion limit on the city’s permanent
residents, according to Chief Executive  Norman Chan .  “The People’s Bank of China said this is feasible and it
will pro-actively consider it,” Chan told reporters in Beijing
yesterday. “That’ll make it easier for banks to sell wealth-management products denominated in yuan.”  Hong Kong allowed non-residents to purchase an unlimited
amount of offshore yuan in August 2012. The city maintained the
20,000-yuan limit for permanent residents who can only buy
onshore yuan, and an 80,000-yuan per day restriction on
transfers to the mainland.  The city’s daily conversion limit is a hindrance as Hong
Kong faces competition from cities including  London  and
 Singapore  that are seeking a greater role in offshore yuan
trading. The daily value of yuan trading in London now stands at
around $5 billion, double the volume in 2012, U.K. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  said this week at a briefing in
Beijing, citing data from HSBC Holdings Plc.  Taiwan ’s central bank is studying measures to bolster its
yuan-related wealth-management business, including raising its
20,000 yuan daily limit on individuals buying or selling the
Chinese currency, a government official said last month.  ‘Enough Depth’  Yuan deposits  in Hong Kong rose 28 percent from a year
earlier to a record 709.5 billion yuan in August, HKMA data
shows. The daily trading volume of the offshore yuan’s spot and
forward markets is $12 billion to $13 billion, according to HSBC
estimates.  The HKMA is proposing that local residents be able to buy
offshore yuan, Chan said. Hong Kong’s  yuan  market has “enough
depth” to accommodate conversion demand from residents, he
said.  “The intention is to build up Hong Kong’s yuan pool and
improve offshore yuan liquidity,” said Crystal Zhao, a Hong
Kong-based fixed-income analyst at HSBC. “Hong Kong’s yuan pool
has grown a lot but going forward, the driver for further
improvement in liquidity might have slowed. To some extent, this
is going to help boost the liquidity but we might not see a
surge in retail deposits so soon.”  The PBOC is also accelerating the approval of Dim Sum bond
issuance applications by domestic financial institutions, Chan
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  