-- Hong Kong Peg Turning 30 as Another Decade Forecast: Currencies
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-10-17T17:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/hong-kong-peg-turning-30-as-another-decade-forecast-currencies.html
Banny Lam recalls how, in the first
nine months of 1983, he helped his family stockpile rice as a
drop of more than 30 percent in  Hong Kong ’s dollar led to panic-buying of goods.  “Sometimes the shelves would be empty,” said Lam, the 41-year-old co-head of research at Agricultural Bank of China
International Securities Co. in Hong Kong. “At that time, we
just didn’t know what would happen tomorrow with the currency.”  Calm was restored when the city pegged its currency to the
U.S. dollar 30 years ago today at a rate of about HK$7.80,
providing stability as China and the U.K. negotiated Hong Kong’s
return to mainland rule. During the 1997-98 Asian financial
crisis, Hong Kong used $15 billion of reserves to defend the peg
from a speculative attack. Financial Secretary  John Tsang  says
the link remains the “most appropriate” system for the city.  Memories linger of bare supermarket shelves before the peg,
and seven of 13 analysts polled by  Bloomberg News  this month
predicted the fixed  exchange rate  would last for another decade.
 John Greenwood , the system’s architect, said there’s a “strong
case” for a permanent peg in Hong Kong, which is a small and
open economy with large capital flows, and therefore vulnerable
to market volatility.  ‘Proved Correct’  “Many people criticized me, because at that time other
economies were still switching from pegged rates under Bretton
Woods to more flexible exchange rates, whereas Hong Kong was
going in the opposite direction,” Greenwood, the London-based
chief economist at Invesco Asset Management, said in an Oct. 3
interview by e-mail. “Hong Kong’s economy was very flexible, I
was confident that I would be proved correct.”  The  Bretton Woods  agreement of 1944 was a response to World
War II and aimed to stabilize exchange rates by tying them to
the U.S. dollar.  Hong Kong’s currency peg means its monetary policy is
dictated by the  Federal Reserve ’s, and calls to review the
system have mounted since 2008 as near-zero U.S.  interest rates 
fueled a surge in property prices and living costs.  If there is a change to the peg, it should be to a basket
of currencies or China’s  yuan , according to eight of the 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The  Hong Kong dollar ’s trading
band could also be widened, four of the analysts said.  Adjusted Peg  Policy makers committed to limiting the Hong Kong dollar’s
decline to HK$7.85 versus the U.S. currency and capping gains at
HK$7.75 in an adjustment to the monetary system in 2005. It
traded at HK$7.7541 as of 1:16 p.m. in New York, within 0.1
percent of the strong end of its trading range.  Hong Kong island  and the Kowloon peninsula came under
British rule in 1842, while an area to the north known as the
New Territories was leased for 99 years until June 30, 1997. In
1982, China rejected then-U.K. Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher ’s request for Britain to continue administering the
city, saying it would resume sovereignty over the whole of Hong
Kong in 1997.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  of shares slid 31 percent to 758.3 by
the end of September 1983 amid tensions sparked by the handover
talks, from its high for that year of 1,102.6 in July, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge closed at 23,094.88
today and reached a record 31,368.22 in October 2007.  ‘Empty Shelves’  Hong Kong’s dollar slid to nearly HK$10 versus the
greenback in the runup to the peg, from HK$6.5 at the start of
1983, according to Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive
 Norman Chan . There’s no need to change the currency link, said
Chan, who remembers the panic-buying of food in the early 1980s.  “On my way home from work I saw a long queue of people
outside a large supermarket, waiting to snatch whatever goods
they could for fear of further devaluation,” he  wrote  on the
HKMA’s website Oct. 14. “The empty shelves in the supermarket,
once filled with groceries, staple food and toilet papers,
further amplified people’s anxiety.”  Tsang, the finance chief in Hong Kong’s government, wrote
in a report released today that the currency policy “has been
the cornerstone” of the city’s stability and banished the
“anxiety in the community” caused by the local dollar’s
decline in the 1980s. While “some in the younger generation”
may be less aware of the peg’s benefits, the government “sees
no need and has no intention” of changing it, he wrote.  Low Volatility  One-year implied volatility on the Hong Kong dollar, a
measure of expected swings in the exchange rate used to price
options, is 0.71 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the lowest rate among 11 Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, followed by 2.8 percent for China’s yuan.  In June 2012,  Joseph Yam , a former HKMA chief who helped
introduce the peg and defended it against speculators during the
Asian crisis of the 1990s, called for a review of the currency
policy. Yam is the most senior serving or former Hong Kong
official to speculate on such changes, and declined an interview
request by Bloomberg News this month.  Many of the city’s problems such as inflation and lower
 living standards  can be attributed to the exchange-rate policy,
and ultimately the local currency should be tied to the yuan,
 Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23)  Chairman David Li was quoted as saying in
the Hong Kong Economic Journal on Oct. 15.  Consumer prices  rose
4.5 percent from a year earlier in August following a 6.9
percent increase in July that was the biggest in two years,
official data show.  China’s Yuan  China ended its  U.S. dollar  peg in 2005, after keeping the
exchange rate stable for a decade, and the yuan has strengthened
36 percent since then, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
currency now trades in a managed range against a basket of major
counterparts. Its daily moves versus the greenback in Shanghai
are limited to 1 percent either side of a  reference rate  set by
the People’s Bank of China.  “In five years, with the transaction volume of the
 renminbi  in the region and the status of a reserve currency
continuing to improve, the Chinese yuan can be a viable
competition to the U.S. dollar,” Hao Hong, the Hong Kong-based
chief China strategist at Bocom International Holdings Co., a
subsidiary of China’s fifth-largest bank by market value, said
in an Oct. 11 phone interview. Renminbi is another term for
China’s currency.  Hong, who forecasts that Hong Kong’s peg with the U.S.
dollar will end in less than five years, said the yuan will
become a “natural choice” as a replacement.  Yuan Roadblocks  Greenwood, who formulated the peg 30 years ago, predicts it
will be “many years” before China fully liberalizes domestic
capital and credit markets and abolishes capital controls,
changes necessary for switching to a link with the yuan.  “However, I would also expect any responsible officer in
the Treasury or the HKMA, or any serious scholar, to have
considered alternative monetary regimes,” Greenwood said.  Chan of the HKMA said it’s too early to consider a yuan
link because “the pre-conditions don’t exist.” The monetary
authority has more than $300 billion of foreign-exchange assets,
mostly in the U.S. currency, he said. Switching the peg to the
yuan would force the HKMA to hold almost 2 trillion yuan ($328
billion) of assets, bigger than the entire offshore yuan market,
according to Chan.  For Lam, who as an 11-year-old lugged sacks of rice through
the crowded streets of Hong Kong’s To Kwa Wan district, the peg
has been nothing but a benefit for the city.  “I went to the supermarket nearby in shorts and sneakers
to grab bags of rice, though sometimes the shelves could be
empty, and then I climbed the stairs back home with the bags on
my back,” Lam said in an Oct. 8 phone interview. “The peg has
given the financial stability that Hong Kong needs most to
prosper. We shouldn’t forget its success in these three
decades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  