-- Monti Quits Party Leadership After Criticizing Italian Budget
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-10-17T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/monti-quits-party-leadership-after-criticizing-italian-budget.html
Former Prime Minister  Mario Monti ,
the economics professor who imposed austerity on  Italy  in 2011,
quit the leadership of his political party after criticizing the
policies of his successor, Prime Minister Enrico Letta.  Monti stepped down as president of Civic Choice, the third-biggest party in Letta’s coalition, because his objection to the
government’s 2014 budget put him at odds with 12 of the party’s
senators, Monti said in a statement on the group’s website late
yesterday. Monti, a senator now, will leave the Civic Choice
caucus in the upper house while staying in the Senate, he said.  The 12 senators gave what amounted to “a motion of no
confidence in me” when they expressed satisfaction with the
budget, Monti said. “I accept it.”  Letta, 47, is consolidating his authority in the coalition
after five months of uneasy collaboration with Monti, 70, and
 Silvio Berlusconi , a three-time former premier. On Oct. 2,
Berlusconi lost control of his People of Liberty, the alliance’s
second-biggest party, after some of its senior lawmakers
deserted him and threw their support behind Letta.  The 2014 budget, which Letta’s cabinet approved on Oct. 15,
didn’t include enough tax cuts or measures to spur Italy’s
stagnant economy, Monti said. Defense Minister Mario Mauro, who
joined Monti in Civic Choice in January and currently sits in
the Senate, bucked the party line by giving unconditional
support to the government, Monti said.  Letta’s Budget  Letta, in his first budget, reshaped the austerity that
Monti used in his 17 months as premier to shield Italy from
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis. Letta reaffirmed the country’s
commitment to  deficit  reduction while funding a payroll-tax cut
with 3.5 billion euros ($4.8 billion) of spending reductions.  Pier Ferdinando Casini , who joined Monti after years in
alliance with Berlusconi, and former Milan Mayor Gabriele
Albertini are among the other 11 senators whose statements
prompted Monti to quit.  Monti struggled to connect with voters as he led Civic
Choice to a fourth-place finish in February elections. A former
European Competition Commissioner, Monti was a university
president in November 2011 when Italian President Giorgio
Napolitano appointed him premier with an emergency mandate to
raise taxes and protect against bond market speculation.  Civic Choice was created in January.  “I won’t lower my commitment to help affirm the values and
vision for which, I trust, all those who joined Civic Choice for
Italy will continue to strive,” Monti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 