-- How to Disarm Congress’s Suicide Bomb
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-17T20:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/how-to-disarm-congress-s-suicide-bomb.html
Now that the U.S. has narrowly
avoided a  disastrous default  on its government obligations, its
political class faces the much more difficult task of repairing
the country’s reputation and restoring some modicum of trust
between its two dominant parties.  Here’s a suggestion: Republicans and Democrats should start
talks on debt-ceiling disarmament.  Congress’s  last-minute agreement  to fund the government and
raise the debt ceiling serves only to postpone, not eliminate,
the threat that political dysfunction will kill the recovery and
trigger a global financial crisis. The creditworthiness of the
U.S. government, issuer of the world’s safe-harbor currency, is
still in the balance. Government funding runs out Jan. 15, and
the debt ceiling will become binding again sometime in the first
half of 2014.  At the same time, the failure of radical Republicans to
achieve their goals in the latest standoff has demonstrated that
holding the country (and the world) hostage is a losing
strategy. Both parties ought to acknowledge that refusing to
raise the debt ceiling is a weapon of self-destruction.
Disarming this suicide bomb is in everyone’s best interest.  The ideal solution would be  to eliminate  the debt ceiling
completely. Congress has the power to set the government’s
budget, and create or eliminate deficits, through its tax and
spending laws. It does not need -- and should not want -- the
opportunity to renege on those decisions at enormous cost to the
country by limiting the Treasury’s ability to borrow.  That said, disarmament in any context of extreme antagonism
is difficult. Sometimes it has to be done in stages, with small
first steps to establish trust. One such move would be an
agreement to make debt-ceiling standoffs less frequent. Congress
could craft a bill requiring that the ceiling always be raised
enough to cover borrowing for, say, two more years. Limiting the
number of debt-ceiling debates to one per congressional term
might seem laughably unambitious -- but it would be better than
the present arrangement.  Another step would be to ensure that hitting the debt
ceiling won’t cause a default on Treasury bonds. This would
require two things. First, Congress would permanently authorize
the Treasury to borrow what’s necessary to service its capital-market debt, regardless of the debt ceiling. Second, Congress
would order the Treasury to update its payment systems so that
bond payments could be separated from the rest and provide
sufficient funding to do so.  Most promising  may be an idea first floated by Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell . Essentially, this would allow
the president to raise the debt ceiling, with conditions and
subject to congressional approval: If Congress voted against the
increase, the president could then veto that action, and a
supermajority of Congress would have to override his veto.  Again, in one way, it’s laughable, the kind of maneuver
that invites derision outside Washington. Yet it gives the
Republicans something they want -- blame for rising debt would
lie more squarely with the White House -- while, in effect,
removing the threat of default almost entirely. Even traditional
 ideological  (and  journalistic ) foes support the idea.  These would be small and far-from-elegant steps, judged
against the  intelligent alternative  of simply scrapping the
debt-ceiling bomb once and for all. But this is  Washington ,
where the realm of the possible is narrow. Partial disarmament
of this suicide weapon is better than none.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 