-- Panda Cam Working Again as U.S. Government Restarts
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n ,   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   A l l a n   H o l m e s
-- 2013-10-17T17:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/panda-cam-working-again-as-u-s-government-restarts.html
The e-mails went out to federal
employees shortly after President  Barack Obama  signed the bill
funding the government: Report to work.  The 11th-hour budget deal Congress struck yesterday raised
the nation’s debt limit and ended the 16-day government shutdown
that had sent hundreds of thousands of federal employees home
without pay. Now they’re flooding back to work.  “Most employees are back or they’re on their way back,”
Colleen M. Kelley, president of the National Treasury Employees
Union, said at a press conference today in Washington. Agencies
called many workers back immediately, giving them a “reasonable
amount of time” to report -- typically within four hours of
receiving notice that the government is once again open for
business, she said.  From the halls of America’s bureaucracies to its national
parks, federal workers are discovering that returning to their
jobs after being furloughed for more than two weeks isn’t as
easy as simply showing up and turning on the lights.  For some departments, starting up will be even harder than
shutting down, and it may be weeks or even months before the
government resumes issuing loans, payments and contracts at a
normal pace.  ‘Disruptive’  “This has been very disruptive,” Larry Allen, president
of Allen Federal Business Partners, a contract consulting firm
in McLean,  Virginia , said in an interview. “The shock wave will
last for months.”  Kelley -- whose union represents 150,000 federal employees
at 31 agencies including the Treasury and Commerce Departments -
- said one of the biggest impacts of the shutdown stems from the
temporary halt in the IRS’s tax collection efforts.  President Bill Clinton’s administration estimated that the
country lost about $100 million for each day the IRS’s
collection activities weren’t operating during a previous
government shutdown. While no current assessment is available,
it’s clear from the past experience that the temporary loss to
the Treasury is extensive, Kelley said.  By foot, car, subway, and bus, the workers came back to
offices in the capital they closed two and a half weeks ago to
start the process of re-opening the government. Vice President
Joe Biden greeted federal workers returning to the Environmental
Protection Agency headquarters on 12th Street in downtown
 Washington .  The National Zoo’s popular “ panda cam ” was turned back on
this morning, providing streaming video of a baby panda in
Washington. The web page provides live views of the 8-week-old
cub and her mother.  Debt Deal  Last night’s legislation funds the government through mid-January and raises the nation’s $16.7 billion debt limit, ending
for now the threat of default, which economists had warned could
push the U.S. back into a recession.  Federal agencies were instructed to begin opening offices
today in a “prompt and orderly manner,” according to a memo
from OMB Director Sylvia Burwell that cleared furloughed
employees to return to work. “We will work closely with
departments and agencies to make the transition back to full
operating status as smooth as possible,” she said.  The budget agreement reopens closed parks and barricaded
monuments that had forced tourists to cancel trips and hurt
nearby businesses that rely on the traffic.  Workers who had to scrimp to cover the loss of pay received
good news: Their next checks on Oct. 25 will cover the full 80-hours. Agencies said retroactive pay covering the first shutdown
week would be made as soon as possible.  ‘Cranking Machine’  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which furloughed
all but 300 of its 3,900 person staff, will have to reschedule
public meetings, including those with companies including
 Southern Co. (SO) ,  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  and the Nuclear
Energy Institute, a Washington-based industry group, which were
canceled during the shutdown.  “We are literally just cranking the machine back up,”
Scott Burnell, an agency spokesman said in a phone interview.
While the NRC didn’t lay off its resident inspectors at U.S.
reactors during the shutdown, it did stop updating its daily
report of incidents at the units. Those will be posted
retroactively, Burnell said.  As of this morning, the NRC was making adjustments to
accommodate its workers who may have gotten late the order to
return to work.  “Supervisors are strongly encouraged to grant leave,
telework, or work schedule flexibilities to help ensure a smooth
transition back to work for employees,” said a notice on the
agency’s website.  ‘Different Now’  The partial halt in government operations was shorter than
the budget shutdowns in fiscal 1996 that lasted a total of 26
days.  This year’s disruption has been far broader in scope, said
Barry Anderson, who was assistant director of the White House
Office of Management and Budget during the fiscal 1996 shutdown.  Congress had  completed  seven of its 13 annual
appropriations bills funding agencies in the previous stoppage -
- leaving vast parts of the government still working. This time
not a single agency funded at Congress’s discretion had final
budget approval.  “Things are very different now,” Anderson said.  The 16-day halt in operations at many federal agencies took
an estimated $24 billion out of the U.S. economy, Standard &
Poor’s said yesterday.  The cost of restarting the government is hard to tabulate.
A study conducted by the OMB after the fiscal 1996 shutdown
pegged the closing’s cost at $1.4 billion, or about $2 billion
in today’s money. That figure didn’t include costs incurred when
workers returned, though those expenses were termed
“significant” by John Koskinen, deputy director of management
at OMB during the previous shutdown, during a hearing of the
House Subcommittee on Civil Service in December 1996.  Uncounted Costs  “Significant additional costs, that cannot be determined
at this time, include interest payments to third parties” when
the government doesn’t pay its bills on time, he said. “There
will also be additional personnel costs necessary to deal with
the backlog of work resulting from the shutdown.”  Those expenditures may be billions of dollars, said  Charles
Tiefer , a law professor at the University of Baltimore who has
studied shutdowns.  While he is aware of no study that has calculated the cost
of restarting the government, Tiefer said the biggest line items
likely include the inability of agencies to carefully audit the
huge backlog of payments including those to the IRS and Medicare
claims. Others come from the difficulty of health and safety
regulators such as the Environmental Protection Agency to pick
up unresolved investigations, he said.  “When they resume their work, the trail will be cold, and
the work lost,” Tiefer said in an interview. “That is by far
the most costly.”  Morale Damaged  It may also hurt morale. In her message, Health and Human
Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius sought to reassure even
those employees who were furloughed that they serve important
roles.  “For those of you returning to work today, we missed you
and welcome back,” Sebelius wrote. “Thank you for
understanding that your status was based on a technical
statutory definition mostly determined by how your work is
funded, and not the value we attribute to the important work you
do each and every day here at the Department.”  “To those returning from furlough: know that the work you
perform is incredibly valued by your military teammates and by
me,” Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said in a message to
employees.  The Pentagon had already recalled to work most of the
350,000 civilian employees it originally sent home. Even so,
Hagel called the shutdown a “manufactured crisis” that was an
“unwelcome and unnecessary distraction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes in Washington at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  