-- ParkerVision Wins Round in Patent Trial Against Qualcomm
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-10-17T20:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/parkervision-wins-first-round-in-patent-trial-against-qualcomm.html
ParkerVision Inc., (PRKR)  a designer of
wireless communication networks, soared the most since February
after it won the first phase of a trial in which it’s seeking
hundreds of millions of dollars in patent royalties from
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  over chip technology.  Qualcomm infringed ParkerVision patents and none were
invalid, a federal jury in  Orlando , Florida, said today. The
jury decision came after more than a week of testimony and two
days of deliberations. ParkerVision rose $2.06, or 61 percent,
to $5.43 at 4 p.m. in  New York  trading of 19 million shares, 23
times the three-month daily average.  A second phase now begins to determine how much Qualcomm
should pay and whether the infringement was intentional, which
could mean an even higher damage amount. ParkerVision claims
Qualcomm, which owns the most widely used technology standard in
mobile phones with  Internet access , was the chief impediment to
its wireless designs being adopted by the telecommunications
industry.  “We are extremely pleased with the jury’s verdict in this
case and we look forward to presenting our damages and
willfulness arguments over the coming days,” ParkerVision Chief
Executive Officer Jeffrey Parker said in a statement.  Qualcomm said it was disappointed in the verdict. “There
is still more to come in this case so we cannot comment further
at this time,” said Christine Trimble, a spokeswoman for San
Diego-based Qualcomm.  Investors have been counting on Jacksonville, Florida-based
ParkerVision to win.  Smartphones, Tablets  ParkerVision lost $13.6 million in the first half of this
year and had no revenue. The company said it showed the
technology to Qualcomm in the late 1990s during failed licensing
negotiations, then discovered in 2011 that Qualcomm had
incorporated the inventions in its chips for smartphones.
Qualcomm’s baseband chips are the key component in phones such
as Apple Inc.’s iPhone and high-end models in Samsung
Electronics Co.’s Galaxy line.  The four patents cover ways to convert electromagnetic
signals from higher frequencies to lower frequencies. This makes
receivers in mobile phones and tablets smaller, more power
efficient and more effective. Qualcomm claimed it never used the
technology and came up with its own ideas.  The trial before U.S. District Judge Roy Dalton focused on
ParkerVision’s claim that Qualcomm infringed the patents and
Qualcomm’s contention that they were invalid. While ParkerVision
is seeking about $500 million in damages, Qualcomm contends the
patents have little value because they’ve never been integrated
into anyone else’s chips.  Astra, Hercules  ParkerVision said in a court filing that, in 1999, Qualcomm
executives discussed looking at the patent applications, and the
senior vice president for technology said it would be “very
difficult for anybody to ever use this technique without
stepping on one or more” of the claims in the patent.  “This case shows that little companies can take on
gigantic infringers and receive justice in America,” said Dan Ravicher, a patent lawyer who attended the trial. “ParkerVision
is not a troll, as this is their only suit. They tried to work
with Qualcomm first, and the patents are their own that they
invented.”  Ravicher, the executive director of the Public Patent
Foundation, a group that often challenges patents on public
policy grounds, said there were internal e-mails shown to the
jury in which Qualcomm called the technology “revolutionary”
and the “holy grail.”  The suit targets Qualcomm transceiver chips, which have
names like Astra, Hercules, Iceman, Magellan, Napoleon, Solo and
Voltron, used in phones and other electronic devices.  Qualcomm gets the bulk of its profits from patent-licensing
and reported $6.24 billion in revenue in the second quarter.
Qualcomm had more than $30 billion of cash and marketable
securities at the end of the quarter.  ParkerVision said in its second-quarter report that it’s
been working to incorporate its radio frequency technology into
customers of Via Telecom Inc.  The case is ParkerVision v. Qualcomm, 11cv719, U.S.
District Court for the Middle District of  Florida  (Orlando).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  