-- Peabody Posts Surprise Profit as U.S. Coal Prices Recover
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-10-17T13:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/peabody-posts-surprise-profit-as-u-s-coal-prices-recover.html
(Corrects time of conference call in text below story.)  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest
U.S. coal producer, posted a surprise third-quarter profit as
domestic prices for coal used to generate electricity recovered.  Excluding one-time items, earnings were 5 cents a share,
the St. Louis-based company said in a statement today, beating
the 4-cent loss that was the average of 24 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Peabody had a third-quarter net loss of
10 cents a share, compared with net income of 16 cents a year
earlier. Sales dropped to $1.8 billion from $2.06 billion,
exceeding the $1.78 billion average estimate.  Prices for thermal coal produced in the Powder River Basin
coal-mining region in Wyoming and  Montana  -- where Peabody
operates the North Antelope Rochelle and Caballo mines --
averaged $10.29 a metric ton in ICE Futures trading in the
quarter, up 23 percent from a year earlier. Peabody produces
more than 140 million tons of coal a year from the Powder River
Basin, according to its  website .  “Exceptionally strong” growth in Powder River Basin
output will help earnings to surpass analysts’ estimates, Jeremy Sussman, a New York-based analyst at Clarkson Capital Markets
who has a hold recommendation on the shares, said in a note
before the results were announced.  Peabody, the first major U.S.  coal producer  to report
quarterly earnings, rose 1.1 percent to $17.89 in New York
yesterday. The shares have declined 31 percent in the past year.  While Powder River Basin prices have recovered in 2013,
U.S. thermal coal is still cheaper than it was two years ago.
The boom in natural gas output from shale rock has prompted some
domestic power utilities to switch generation to gas from coal.  Metallurgical Coal  Prices for metallurgical coal, which Peabody also produces,
are down year on year amid a supply glut. The global benchmark
contract price for seaborne exports on the raw material was set
at $145 a ton for the third quarter, down 36 percent from a year
earlier, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Coal-fired electricity capacity in the U.S. is also facing
more regulation. In September, the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency unveiled new rules that require coal plants to capture
and store some of the carbon dioxide they emit. The move will
push up power prices because the required capture technology
isn’t commercially feasible, Peabody said in a Sept. 20
statement.  (Peabody will hold an earnings conference call at 11 a.m.
New York time, accessible at  http://www.peabodyenergy.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  