-- Manufacturing in Philadelphia Expands More Than Forecast
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-10-17T14:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/philadelphia-fed-october-factory-index-falls-to-19-8-from-22-3.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region expanded more than projected in October, a sign factories
are sustaining the momentum gained prior to the partial federal
shutdown that ended today.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
 index  fell to 19.8 this month from a more than two-year high of
22.3 in September. Readings greater than zero signal growth in
the area, which covers eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey 
and  Delaware . The  median forecast  of 56 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a reading of 15.  While uncertainty stemming from budget and debt ceiling
debates in Washington have undermined buyer confidence, auto
sales and consumer demand for home-related goods are keeping
factories busy. Rising home and stock prices have given
household balance sheets a boost and, combined with improvement
in overseas markets, could help propel manufacturing, which
accounts for about 12 percent of the economy.  “Equity and housing markets are improving, and even the
export numbers have improved in recent months,”  Jim O’Sullivan ,
chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla,
 New York , said before the report. “Prior to this turmoil, it
looked like manufacturing was accelerating, and I think once we
get through this that will still be the trend.”  Economists’ estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
minus 2.0 to 27.5. The September reading was the highest since
March 2011.  New York  A report from the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  on Oct.
15 showed manufacturing in that region slowed in October as
sales and hiring cooled. That bank’s general economic index fell
to 1.5, a five-month low, from 6.3 in September.  Other reports today showed jobless claims fell less than
forecast last week, and  consumer confidence  tumbled.  Jobless claims  decreased  by 15,000 to 358,000 in the week
ended Oct. 12 from a revised 373,000 in the prior period,
according to Labor Department figures. California continued to
work through a backlog of applications, a Labor Department
Spokesman said, indicating it will take time to gauge the impact
of the federal shutdown.  Americans in October were the most pessimistic about the
nation’s economic prospects in almost two years as concern
mounted that continued political gridlock will hurt the
expansion, according to the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  Consumer Expectations  The report’s monthly  expectations gauge  plunged to minus
31, the lowest level since November 2011, from minus 9 in
September, a report showed today. The  share  of people projecting
the economy will worsen jumped by the most since the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. five years ago. The  weekly measure 
of current conditions fell to minus 34.1 in the period ended
Oct. 13, the weakest since March.  The Philadelphia Fed’s  new orders  measure increased to
27.5, the highest level since March 2011, from 21.2 the prior
month. An index of  shipments  declined to 20.4 in October from
21.2 in September. A gauge of  employment  climbed to 15.4 this
month, the highest since May 2011, from 10.3 last month.  Philadelphia-area manufacturers were the most optimistic
about the future in 10 years, today’s report showed. The  outlook
index  for six months from now increased to 60.8, the highest
since September 2003, from 58.2 last month.  Economists monitor Philadelphia and Empire State factory
reports for clues about the Institute for Supply Management
national figures on manufacturing. The next ISM report is due
Nov. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  