-- Poverty-Panel Head Urges U.K. Banks to Pay Lowest Earners More
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-10-17T12:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/poverty-panel-head-urges-u-k-banks-to-pay-lowest-earners-more.html
The head of the U.K. government’s
Social Mobility & Child Poverty Commission said industries
including finance should have to pay a higher  minimum wage  to
help get families off welfare.  The commission’s  annual report , published in London today,
said the government is set to miss its target of eliminating
child poverty before 2020 “by a considerable margin.” It
recommended that the Low Pay Commission, which sets the  national
minimum wage , should have a wider remit, and that the case for
raising it from the current 6.31 pounds ($10.15) an hour is
“increasingly strong.”  The poverty panel’s chairman, Alan Milburn, answering
questions from journalists about whether this would hit
employment, went further than the report and suggested that
different industries could have different minimum pay levels.  “I take some persuading that the finance sector couldn’t
pay people a higher minimum wage,” he said. “Maybe the
construction sector would be another example.”  Milburn, who was health secretary in the Labour government
under Prime Minister  Tony Blair , also questioned why welfare
payments for pensioners are being protected when younger people
are seeing cuts to public-sector pay and benefits by Prime
Minister David Cameron’s coalition of Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats.  All three main political parties pledged to protect
payments to the elderly in the 2010 election campaign. Benefits
in addition to state pensions include payments to cover the
extra cost of power in winter and free bus travel.  “People who are working are facing a squeeze on their
benefits and on their public services -- is it right that
wealthy pensioners are having their benefits not just protected
but enhanced?” Milburn asked. “I’ve not met a politician in
private who doesn’t agree with that sentiment. The question is
whether they’re prepared to act in a way that’s consistent with
their private views.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  