-- Puerto Rico Grade May Be Cut to Junk, BlackRock’s Hayes Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-10-17T17:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/puerto-rico-rating-may-be-cut-in-mid-14-blackrock-s-hayes-says.html
Puerto Rico  may have its  credit
rating  cut to junk in the fiscal year beginning July 1 as the
commonwealth struggles with a shrinking economy, says  Peter Hayes , head of municipal debt at New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   The self-governing Caribbean territory is ranked one step
above speculative grade by the three major credit companies.
Should it fail to meet its projections for  tax revenue  and
economic growth, one of the firms may lower its rating as soon
as mid-2014, Hayes said today at a media presentation in New
York. He helps oversee $108 billion of munis, including Puerto
Rico debt, for the world’s largest money manager.  “A downgrade will mean that there will be some more forced
sellers,” at which point BlackRock will look to buy, Hayes
said. “Most markets overreact and we suspect that it will
happen here as well.”  Puerto Rico’s fiscal stability and the outlook for its debt
has significance for the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market
because 77 percent of U.S. muni mutual funds hold its bonds,
according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The securities are tax-exempt
nationwide.  The commonwealth and its agencies had $70 billion of debt
as of June 30, according to Puerto Rico’s Government Development
Bank, which handles capital-market transactions for the
territory.  An index measuring the economy of the island of 3.7 million
people fell 5.4 percent in August from a year earlier, the
biggest drop since 2010, according to the bank. Betsy Nazario, a
spokeswoman for the bank, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the prospect of a rating reduction.  Rally Extended  Even with Hayes’s outlook, Puerto Rico debt is extending
its biggest rally in almost a month.  Government Development Bank officials helped trigger the
gains with an investor presentation on Oct. 15. They said that
while they plan to sell as much as $1.2 billion of sales-tax
bonds by Dec. 31 to balance budgets, the commonwealth has enough
funds to hold off on issuance through June 30 if borrowing costs
are too high.  Commonwealth general obligations maturing in July 2041
traded today with an average yield of 8.3 percent, the lowest
since Sept. 27, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield
spread above benchmark munis also shrank to the lowest in almost
three weeks.  Puerto Rico debt gained about  0.6 percent  yesterday, the
biggest one-day advance since Sept. 19, according to Standard &
Poor’s data. The securities have still lost 21.1 percent this
year through Oct. 16, the worst performance since at least 1999
and more than six times the declines in the broader muni market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  