-- Push Against Obamacare Leaves 5 Million Without Coverage
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/push-against-obamacare-leaves-5-million-without-coverage.html
About 5.2 million Americans will be
left without health coverage because of the decision by 26 U.S.
states to reject expanded Medicaid insurance programs for the
poor with money provided under Obamacare.  Alabama ,  Louisiana ,  Mississippi  and  South Carolina  will be
particularly hard-hit, as those southern states will fail to
provide coverage to at least one-third of uninsured adults,
according to a report from the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and
the Uninsured. In  Texas , more than 1 million people won’t have
access to insurance provided through the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act of 2010, while 763,890 Floridians won’t
receive health coverage.  Expansion of Medicaid eligibility was intended to provide
health insurance for the  working poor , those with incomes just
higher than the poverty line who would struggle to pay premiums.
While the U.S. Supreme Court last year upheld the law known as
Obamacare, it also allowed states not to expand Medicaid.  “In states that expand their Medicaid programs, millions
of adults will gain Medicaid coverage under the law,” according
to the  report  issued yesterday by the commission affiliated with
the  Kaiser Family Foundation , a nonprofit health research group
based in  Menlo Park ,  California . “However, with many states
opting not to implement the Medicaid expansion, millions of
adults will remain outside the reach of the ACA and continue to
have limited, if any, option for health coverage.”  Coverage Gap  The issue has created a coverage gap. The law was designed
to expand Medicaid for those making as much as 138 percent of
the poverty line. Only about 30 percent of poor adults now
qualify for the joint federal-state program. Low-income workers
who earn more than 138 percent of poverty are eligible for tax
credits to help pay for insurance through the health exchanges
created under the law.  The federal government will pay all the costs for states
that expand Medicaid through 2016 and 90 percent of the extra
expense to 2020.  Once the court struck down the mandate to expand Medicaid,
poor workers in states that elected not to broaden their
programs had nowhere to turn, the commission said in its report.
They don’t earn enough to get the tax credits and they aren’t
poor enough to qualify for Medicaid under the current
eligibility level, which is a median income of about $9,400 a
year for a family of three. The ACA would have allowed Medicaid
benefits for families of three with incomes of about $27,000
annually.  Workers who fall into the gap are unlikely to be able to
afford the cost of buying a health plan on their own. The
average premium for a 40-year-old buying insurance through a
national exchange is about $224 per month for a bronze plan,
roughly half the monthly income for those at the lower end of
the range, according to the report.  Care Barriers  “People in the coverage gap are likely to face barriers to
needed  health services  or, if they do require medical care,
potentially serious financial consequences,” the commission
concluded in the report. “Further, the safety net of clinics
and hospitals that has traditionally served the uninsured
population will continue to be stretched in these states.”  Mississippi leads the nation in the percentage of uninsured
adults in the coverage gap with 37 percent, followed by Alabama
with 36 percent, Louisiana at 34 percent and South Carolina at
33 percent.  With 1 million uninsured in Texas, the state has the
largest number of people without access to health insurance,
representing a fifth of U.S. citizens without coverage. Florida
has the second highest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  