-- Putin’s Billionaire Ally Buys Half of Tele2 Russia Operator
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-10-17T08:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/putin-s-billionaire-ally-buys-50-of-tele2-russia-mobile-carrier.html
President  Vladimir Putin ’s
billionaire ally Yury Kovalchuk is buying half of Tele2 Russia
Holding AB with partners, seeking to make the wireless carrier a
stronger competitor to the country’s three dominant operators.  Kovalchuk’s Bank  Rossiya (ROSS)  and partners including steelmaking
billionaire Alexey Mordashov bought 50 percent of the business
from  VTB Group (VTBR) , a state-run bank. VTB, which bought the Russian
unit of Sweden’s  Tele2 AB (TEL2B)  for $2.4 billion this year, said in
its statement today that the selling price for the stake was
“in line with expectations.”  With Kovalchuk’s backing, Tele2 Russia will become a more
powerful contender in a market benefiting from rising demand for
mobile Internet-browsing and video viewing. The Russian wireless
market is dominated by billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s  OAO
Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , billionaire  Alisher Usmanov ’s  OAO MegaFon (MFON) 
and billionaire Mikhail Fridman’s  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)   The next step may be combining Tele2 Russia with the
wireless business of state-controlled phone company OAO
Rostelecom. The two mobile carriers may be merged, VTB Chairman
Andrey Kostin said this month. In the tie-up, which would form
the country’s fourth nationwide mobile operator, Tele2 Russia
owners would probably have majority control, he said.  “Kovalchuk managed to agree with VTB and may become a
beneficiary of Russia’s new nationwide operator,”  Anna Lepetukhina , an analyst at Sberbank CIB in Moscow, said by
phone. “Tele2 Russia is a good asset which has great potential
if combined with Rostelecom’s mobile business.”  Russian Growth  Tele2 Russia and Rostelecom’s mobile unit together would
have about 37 million customers, trailing the 57 million to 72
million users at the larger rivals, according to AC&M
Consulting.  In contrast to Western Europe, the Russian wireless market
is expanding as more consumers browse the Web and watch video on
smartphones and tablets. Russia’s total mobile revenue climbed 9
percent to 837.4 billion rubles ($26.1 billion) last year,
according to AC&M Consulting. Data revenue surged 33 percent to
account for 100.7 billion rubles of that amount.  Shares of MTS, the wireless-market leader,  fell  2.7 percent
to 341.92 rubles at 12:47 p.m. in Moscow. MegaFon, the No. 2,
dropped 0.7 percent to $36.75 in London. VTB declined 1.1
percent to $2.70.  Kovalchuk’s Partners  The Tele2 Russia purchase marks an expansion into a new
area for Kovalchuk, who owns  CTC Media (CTCM)  in Russia with Tele2 AB
founder Cristina Stenbeck and her family. He is the main
shareholder of St. Petersburg-based Bank Rossiya, which owns
stakes in National Media Group and insurance company Sogaz and
has an indirect interest in Gazprombank.  Kovalchuk, 62, had a fortune valued at $1.1 billion by
Forbes Russia magazine this year. He has known Putin since the
early 1990s, and both are from  St. Petersburg . Mordashov, a
billionaire owner of Russian steelmaker OAO Severstal, is
Kovalchuk’s partner in the bank and in National Media Group.  Rostelecom Chief Executive Officer Sergey Kalugin,
appointed in March, had previously worked for Kovalchuk’s
companies. Gazprombank holds a 7.2 percent stake in Rostelecom,
according to the Prime newswire.  Rostelecom plans to rely on partners to develop mobile
business, spokeswoman Kira Kiryukhina said Oct. 7. President
Putin is backing measures that would allow Tele2 Russia to use
so-called second-generation frequencies to develop fourth-generation networks for faster data speeds,  Vedomosti  reported
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  