-- Tracey Emin’s Bed Sells for Record $778,900 in London
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-10-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/tracey-emin-s-bed-sells-for-record-778-900-in-london.html
A Tracey Emin bed sold last night in
 London  for $778,900, a record for the artist.  Emin’s four-poster, covered with inscription-embroidered
linen, was the top item in one of the events during a hectic
schedule of Frieze Week auctions.  The bed was included in a Christie’s International sale
that raised a total of 3.1 million pounds ($5 million) in aid of
the London-based Saatchi Gallery’s policy of free entry. All the
50 large-scale works found buyers after being offered without
reserves or estimates.  Dating from 2002 and titled “To Meet My Past,” the brass
bed achieved a formal price of 481,875 pounds with fees. It was
bought by a European bidder in the room who declined to give his
name to  Bloomberg News . Emin’s U.K. dealer  White Cube  was among
the underbidders. The artist’s more famous and much messier 1998
“My Bed” remains in the Saatchi collection.  The three main auction houses are offering more than 900
works of contemporary art this week, luring the collectors who
have gathered in London for the Frieze Art Fair, Frieze Masters
and other satellite events.  Buyers are on a tight schedule. Christie’s event had barely
finished before bidders had to rush along  Bond Street  to
 Sotheby’s (BID) , where more contemporary art was being sold.  Amid a concentration on younger artists, the star lot at
Sotheby’s was Glenn Brown’s monumental 1994 canvas, “Ornamental
despair (Painting for Ian Curtis),” estimated at 2 million
pounds to 3 million pounds.  Cult Dali  Brown’s dramatic sci-fi inspired paintings have a cult
following with wealthy collectors after “The Tragic Conversion
of  Salvador Dali  (after  John Martin )” sold for a record 5.2
million pounds at Sotheby’s in June 2012.  This latest painting, showing a space ship leaving a
stricken meteorite, had been inspired by an illustration for an
Isaac Asimov novel. It sold for 3.6 million pounds with fees to
a telephone bidder. The unidentified seller had bought the work
at auction for just 32,900 pounds in 2002.  Sotheby’s sale raised 21.5 million pounds from 47 lots, 81
percent of which were successful. The presale estimate was 22.7
million pounds to 32.3 million pounds.  The previous evening at Sotheby’s, while Phillips was
holding its own contemporary sale, 1.3 million pounds was raised
for the Mimi Foundation, a charity founded by the Swiss
collector Myriam Ullens.  The most successful of the eight works donated by
contemporary artists was Yan Pei-Ming’s “Portrait of H.R.H. the
 Prince of Wales .” This first-ever painting of the U.K. royal by
a Chinese artist sold for 302,500 pounds. Proceeds will be
divided between the Mimi Foundation and the Prince’s Drawing
School, said Sotheby’s.  Muse highlights include the  New York  and London  weekend
guides ,  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,  Lewis Lapham  on
history,  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene
Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 