-- Ranieri’s Shellpoint Cuts Size of Delayed Mortgage-Bond Deal
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-10-17T20:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/ranieri-s-shellpoint-cuts-size-of-delayed-mortgage-bond-offering.html
Shellpoint Partners LLC , the lender
backed by mortgage-bond pioneer Lewis Ranieri, cut the size of
its second sale of U.S. home-loan securities without government
backing after delaying the transaction last month.  The bonds are now tied to $250.8 million of loans, Kroll
Bond Rating Agency said today in an e-mailed statement. The
issuer had earlier called for the deal to be backed by $308.6
million of loans, the credit grader said last month.  Kroll’s revised presale report didn’t reference loans to
foreign nationals without credit scores, debt that had been
cited as representing 1.2 percent of the pool in the previous
report, signaling the  mortgages  were dropped to help draw
investors. The deal also reduced the share of loans from
 California  to 50 percent from 58 percent, while increasing the
ratio of debt poised to get top ratings.  The changes show that investors remain wary of the default
risks of the safest portions of  non-agency  mortgage securities,
after the debt helped fuel the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression. The notes can also be harder to trade than
government-backed bonds and carry projected lives that can
extend with rising interest rates.  Reducing Mistrust  Eric Kaplan, a managing director for New York-based
Shellpoint, declined to comment.  Yesterday, Kaplan co-hosted a roundtable in  New York 
organized by the Structured Finance Industry Group that
represented an effort to accelerate the market’s revival by
reducing mistrust among market participants. Investors, issuers
and others discussed contract terms related to when and how
lenders or other mortgage-bond sellers can be forced to
repurchase loans that fail to match their promised quality.  While non-agency issuance has grown this year after halting
five years ago amid tumbling home values and soaring defaults,
sales have slowed since July. About $12.5 billion in deals tied
to new loans have been completed this year, up from $3.5 billion
in all of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales in 2013 probably won’t surpass $15 billion, though
they could exceed $50 billion next year, especially if the
government cuts the size of mortgages that federally backed
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  can guarantee, according to a
Barclays Plc report last week. Issuance peaked at $1.2 trillion
in each of 2005 and 2006.  Showing Appetite  Deals since the non-agency market restarted in 2010 have
been tied to prime jumbo mortgages, rather than riskier subprime
and Alt-A loans. Loan-to-value ratios in the latest Shellpoint
offering average 65.5 percent with a mean borrower credit score
of 773, according to the Kroll report.  A 65.5 percent ratio means a home buyer used a 34.5 percent
down payment or a borrower had similar equity when refinancing.
Credit score cut-offs for subprime loans, made to borrowers with
poor credit histories, range from 620 to 680.  Kroll said it expects to grant its highest rating of AAA to
$233 million of the notes with credit enhancement, or default
protection, of 7.1 percent, compared with $285.3 million and 7.9
percent under the original structure.  Investors are showing appetite for some types of mortgage
credit risk.  Fannie Mae  this week sold $675 million of notes
with less default protection, completing the deal at lower
yields in excess of benchmark rates than initially offered.
Credit Suisse Group AG said today in a report that the debt
appreciated in secondary trading.  Jumbo Loans  Jumbo home loans are ones larger than allowed in
government-supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for
single-family properties in high-cost areas. For Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac loans with the lowest costs for most types of
borrowers, limits range from $417,000 to $625,500.  Origination of jumbo loans for securitizations is being
reduced by higher rates and by investors demanding higher
relative yields on the bonds, Stanford Kurland, chief executive
officer of PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust and former
president of Countrywide Financial Corp., said in an August
conference call. The firm completed its first mortgage-bond deal
last month.  Some banks have also been offering the loans at rates even
lower than available on traditional loans. In a report last
month, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst  John Sim  cited competition
from “asset-starved banks” in cutting his 2013 issuance
forecast to “closer to” $15 billion, from $20 billion.  Shellpoint offered its first mortgage-backed securities in
June. The company also restructured that transaction, and then
offered higher relative yields to attract investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  