-- Raytheon Interceptor’s Quality Controls Under U.S. Review
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-10-17T16:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/raytheon-interceptor-s-quality-controls-under-u-s-review.html
The Pentagon’s inspector general has
begun a quality review of  Raytheon Co.’s (RTN)  manufacturing of the
primary interceptor used in the U.S. ballistic missile defense
system.  The assessment of production processes for the hit-to-kill
warhead will be conducted at the U.S. Missile Defense Agency’s
program office in Huntsville,  Alabama , and the company’s plant
in Tucson,  Arizona , according to a  Sept. 24 memo  signed by
Randolph Stone, the deputy inspector general for policy and
oversight.  “We won’t have a comment” on the inspector general’s
review, Jon Kasle, a spokesman for Waltham, Massachusetts-based
Raytheon, said in an e-mailed statement. Missile Defense Agency
spokesman Rick Lehner said in an e-mail that “we have no
comment on this topic while an audit is under way.”  The ground-based system has failed to intercept a target
successfully in tests since December 2008. The program managed
by  Boeing Co. (BA) , which has cost more than $36.5 billion so far,
has drawn criticism for flaws in quality. A part missing from a
warhead caused the failure of a $200 million interception test
in January 2010. That failure and another in December 2010 that
wasn’t related to quality forced a suspension of warhead
deliveries that remains in effect.  “We conduct quality assurance assessments of critical
defense systems on a regular basis using various factors to
identify systems to examine,” Stone said in an e-mailed
statement.  Pulverizing Missiles  His office on Sept. 30 issued a quality assurance review of
the F-35 fighter, the Pentagon’s costliest weapons system, that
found non-compliance with standards at Bethesda, Maryland-based
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and five top subcontractors.  The quality review of the  Exoatmospheric Kill Vehicle  from
Raytheon, the world’s largest missile maker, is being conducted
in coordination with the  Missile Defense Agency . The warhead is
a non-explosive weapon, intended to pulverize an incoming
ballistic missile by colliding with it at high speed. It
separates from its booster and flies on its own, guided by
internal sensors.  In the January 2010 test, the Raytheon interceptor failed
to hit the target when its warhead thruster malfunctioned
because of a missing component called a lockwire, according to
the Missile Defense Agency.  An attempted intercept test in July failed when the warhead
didn’t separate from the booster rocket. The cause is still
under investigation.  Inconsistent Production  Stone was the Missile Defense Agency’s director of quality
and safety in 2006, when Raytheon was docked an undisclosed
amount in fees after an audit determined that manufacturing
processes at the company’s Tucson facility couldn’t ensure
consistent production of reliable warheads.  Pentagon officials said a year later that the company had
improved its processes.  Army Lieutenant General Patrick O’Reilly, who headed the
Missile Defense Agency at the time, told a  House of
Representatives  panel in 2009 that warheads had been delivered
as many as 50 days behind schedule the previous year because of
poor management and a “lack of discipline during assembly and
testing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  