-- Treasury Has Tools to Push 2014 Debt-Limit Deadline Past Feb. 7
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-10-17T17:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/treasury-has-tools-to-push-2014-debt-limit-deadline-past-feb-7.html
The Treasury Department emerged from
the fiscal fight in Congress with tools intact that will allow
the U.S. to stay under the debt limit for a month or more after
the ceiling is reinstated Feb. 7, budget analysts said.  President  Barack Obama  signed legislation today that
reopened the government and allows the Treasury to sell bills,
notes and bonds without exceeding the borrowing cap, which was
$16.7 trillion before the new law suspended it until Feb. 7.
After that, the department can avoid a breach by using
accounting maneuvers, which some analysts say can provide about
$200 billion to help fund operations until income-tax  revenue 
arrives before the mid-April filing deadline.  “There is a 25 percent chance that the Treasury might be
able to reach April 15 without a debt-ceiling increase,”  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey , wrote in a research report dated today. “If so,
April tax receipts would push the debt-ceiling deadline into the
latter part of the second quarter.”  The extra time may mean the next debt-limit showdown flares
up closer to 2014 mid-term congressional elections, becoming an
issue in primaries including the one between Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Republican from  Kentucky , and Tea
Party candidate Matt Bevin, said Chris Krueger, a Washington
analyst for Guggenheim Securities LLC.  All members of the 435-seat House and a third of the 100-seat Senate are up for reelection in November 2014.  ‘Toxic’ Vote  “There is no more toxic political vote than one to raise
the debt ceiling,” particularly in Republican primaries,
Krueger said. “Many Republican House and Senate members will be
looking over their right shoulder in fear of retribution for
another vote to raise the debt ceiling just before their primary
elections.”  The Treasury’s so-called extraordinary measures, which
include suspending sales of non-marketable state and local
government securities, have become ordinary over the past two
decades. Administrations of both parties have used them to keep
paying bills while Congress weighed debt-ceiling increases.
 House Republicans  tried and failed to stop their use during the
next fiscal battle, running into opposition from the Obama
administration.  Treasury spokeswoman Brandi Hoffine declined to comment.  The exact amount of money freed up by the extraordinary
measures depends on the time of year they are employed,
according to Alec Phillips, an economist in the Washington
office of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Extra Time  “In early 2013, the Treasury had around $200 billion in
extraordinary measures and we assume they will have about the
same in early 2014,” Phillips said in a note yesterday. In
2012, it took about five weeks starting from Feb. 7 for the debt
subject to the limit to increase by $200 billion, and this year
it took about four weeks from the same starting period, he said.  An extra dividend from the McLean, Virginia-based Freddie
Mac might help the Treasury get beyond that period, Phillips
said. The U.S.-owned mortgage financier, which has operated
under federal conservatorship since it was seized in 2008, is
sending the Treasury dividend payments as a condition of the
rescue.  Besides suspending the state and local government
securities, known as “ slugs ,” Treasury can also declare a
“debt issuance suspension period,” which allows it to hold off
investment of new amounts and redeem some existing  Treasury
securities  in the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.  That measure, and the suspension of daily reinvestment of
Treasury securities held by the  Government Securities Investment
Fund  of the Federal Employees’ Retirement System Thrift Savings
Plan, were used in at least seven debt-limit impasses since
1995.  Earlier this week,  Fitch Ratings  put the U.S. AAA credit
grade on ratings watch negative, citing the government’s
inability to raise the debt ceiling in a timely manner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  