-- Record Copper Output in China Seen by Antaike on Smelter Fees
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-17T02:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/record-copper-output-in-china-seen-by-antaike-on-smelter-fees.html
Copper output in  China  is set to
remain at record levels for the rest of 2013 as high treatment
fees encourage smelters in the biggest producer to run at full
capacity.  Monthly production in the fourth quarter may be about
560,000 metric tons, matching an all-time high in August and
above average  output  of 534,112 tons for the first eight months,
said Yang Changhua, an analyst at Beijing Antaike Information
Development Co.  Higher output and  imports  that reached an 18-month high in
September may add to a global glut. The metal in  London  tumbled
into a  bear market  in April and has dropped 8.6 percent this
year as economic growth slowed in China, the largest user.  “Smelters are willing to produce because of high treatment
charges and ample ore and scrap supplies,” Yang, who has
studied the market in China for 15 years, said in a phone
interview yesterday.  The short-term fee for treating ore has climbed further
this month after reaching $100 per ton in September, supporting
high utilization rates from Chinese smelters, said Zhu Wenjun,
an analyst at SMM Information & Technology Co. in Shanghai.  Metal for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange was little changed at $7,255 a ton at 9:49 a.m. in
Shanghai.  Zhu expected China’s National Bureau of Statistics to
announce later this week that  refined copper output  in September
may match a record 580,000 tons set in December.  Antaike, a unit of the China Nonferrous Metals Industry
Association, accounts industry data with different standard
beside the Chinese authority.  Annual Talks  China  imported  940,000 tons of ore and concentrate in July,
matching a record seen in December. The figure retreated to
750,000 tons in August. Concentrate is semi-processed ore.  High imports have driven up concentrate inventories at
Chinese smelters by 150,000 to 200,000 tons from earlier this
year, SMM’s Zhu said, citing an estimate based on her company’s
survey with the plants.  Higher inventories of semi-processed ore are driving up
charges levied by smelters to treat the metal,  Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the world’s second-largest copper miner,
said on Oct. 8.  “The situation helps maintain the current level of spot
fees and offers Chinese smelters a relatively good bargaining
position in annual fee negotiations,” Zhu said.  Treatment fees are in dollars per ton of concentrate
received and refining fees are in cents per pound of copper in
the ore. The charges are deducted from prices paid by smelters
to mining companies for concentrate.  Smelters including China’s Jiangxi Copper Co. and Hamburg-based  Aurubis AG (NDA)  expect higher fees next year as mining
companies have more supplies for smelters to process following
mining capacity expansion.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alfred Cang in  Shanghai  at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  