-- Reid’s Party Unity Outplays Boehner’s Divided Republicans
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-10-17T06:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/reid-s-party-unity-outplays-boehner-s-divided-republicans.html
Days before the U.S. risked a debt
default, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  had the chance to
pocket a deal. Instead, he went for the kill.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat and a former competitive boxer,
called Senator  Joe Manchin  on Oct. 13 and insisted the West
Virginia Democrat deny reports of an agreement among a
bipartisan group of senators to re-open the government and raise
the  debt ceiling .  Reid was in one-on-one talks with Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell  that he wanted to end in a better deal from
Republicans, who were in retreat as they took greater blame for
the impasse in public polls. The White House, for its part, was
warning Democratic leaders off of what it viewed as an
unfavorable compromise emerging from the bipartisan group.  In response, Manchin and other Democrats issued a statement
announcing there was no agreement to end the standoff, which
became the final in a series of instances in which Reid, 73,
maneuvered to ensure that Democrats blunted Republican demands
in the fiscal fight that shut the government down for 16 days
and risked a U.S. default on its debts.  Reid’s hardline stance yielded results last night when
Congress passed legislation that omitted every Republican goal.  “This is far less than many of us had hoped for,”
McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, said in the hours before the
measure passed the Senate by a bipartisan 81-18 vote. It later
passed the Republican-controlled House, 285-114.  Divided Republicans  As Reid’s firm hand helped keep Senate Democrats united,
his Republican counterpart across the Capitol was left to pick
up the pieces from a debate his rank-and-file pushed for that
ultimately left them splintered and with little other
accomplishments than declining poll numbers.  House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio warned his fellow
Republicans in an Oct. 14 meeting that Reid was launching a
“hand grenade” at them. Yet with Tea Party-backed Republicans
refusing to yield in the fight to dismantle the three-year-old
Affordable Care Act, Boehner, 63, had no choice but to catch it.  In order to pass a measure shortly before midnight last
night that re-opened the government with enough funding to last
through Jan. 15, 2014 and raised the debt ceiling with enough
borrowing authority to last until Feb. 7, Boehner needed help
from at least 130 of the chamber’s 200 Democrats. He got all 198
of those who  voted . Republicans cast all of the votes against
the legislation.  Obama Frustration  President  Barack Obama , who refused to accept Republican-imposed conditions on raising the nation’s borrowing authority,
said members of both parties should put the episode behind them.
Still, after weeks of partisan acrimony and days during which
his deputy chief of staff, Rob Nabors, a former top House aide,
set up shop in Reid’s Capitol Hill office to plot an endgame
strategy, Obama’s frustration came through.  “Hopefully, next time it won’t be in the 11th hour,”
Obama said in a statement from the White House. “We’ve got to
get out of the habit of governing by crisis, and my hope and
expectation is everybody has learned” from the fight.  The showdown between  House Republicans  and the White House
sets the stage for broader negotiations in coming weeks on
trimming the costs of Medicare and Social Security and revamping
the  tax code . Obama also is seeking to use his new political
advantage to insist the House move legislation early next year
that revises the nation’s immigration laws.  Splintered Republicans  The fiscal confrontation was driven by Republicans backed
by small-government  Tea Party  activists, who were determined to
leverage their party’s House majority to force changes to the
 health-care  law. None of it worked out as they wanted.  This story is based on interviews with dozens of Democratic
and Republican officials involved in the meetings and
discussions that surrounded the battle, many of whom spoke on
condition of anonymity to give candid descriptions of internal
matters.  The showdown was set in motion in early September when
House Republicans rejected a plan by Boehner to decouple a
government funding bill from legislation to choke off funding
for the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Instead,
they insisted the speaker advance a measure that conditioned
continued federal spending beyond the end of the month on
defunding or delaying the health-care law.  Reid called the effort “a waste of time,” and told
Boehner: “Let’s stop these really juvenile political games.”  No Meeting  Meanwhile, he was urging Obama to scrap a White House
meeting with congressional leaders aimed at heading off a
government shutdown, saying it would suggest Democrats were
willing to negotiate over placing conditions on continued
government funding when they weren’t. Obama took the advice; the
meeting was canceled.  Nor was Boehner’s Republican caucus in the mood to curtail
its demands. Over Obama’s threatened veto, the House passed
legislation Sept. 20 to fund the government while halting
spending on the health-care law.  The following week, Senator  Ted Cruz , a Texas Republican
elected in 2012 with Tea Party support, held a 21-hour talk-a-thon on the Senate floor that began Sept. 24 to call attention
to the demand to defund Obamacare. In the ensuing days, it
became clear  Washington  was heading toward a shutdown beginning
on Oct. 1.  Neither side budged for the first several days of the
nation’s first partial government shutdown in 17 years, even as
markets became uneasy and public frustration rose.  The Standard & Poor’s Index fell 1 percent from Oct. 1-7
and an NBC News  poll  conducted October 7-9 found that 53 percent
were blaming Republicans in Congress for the shutdown impasse,
while 31 percent blamed Obama.  Poll Results  The Republican brand had been tarnished -- only 24 percent
had a positive view of it -- and respondents said they’d prefer
a Democratic-controlled Congress to a Republican one by 8
percentage points.  Republicans sought to shift blame for the situation to
Democrats, pushing measures through the House to fund
politically popular pieces of the government, such as the
Veterans Administration, while Obama took his case to Americans.  “You don’t pay a ransom -- you don’t provide concessions
for Congress doing its job and America paying its bills,” he
said at an Oct. 8 news conference. “You don’t get a chance to
call your bank and say, ‘I’m not going to pay my mortgage this
month unless you throw in a new car and an Xbox.’”  Record Lows  Two days later, with a Gallup  Poll  showing Republicans’
approval ratings at record lows, Boehner told a closed-door
meeting of House Republicans that he would propose at a White
House meeting later that day to raise the debt ceiling for six
weeks in return for opening budget negotiations and starting
talks on re-opening the government.  His caucus was split over the proposal, yet they united
over their collective opposition to Obama, said a lawmaker
present. Representative Tim Walberg of  Michigan , a former
pastor, rose to thank Boehner for not asking him to come along
to the White House meeting, saying he was afraid it might
inspire “un-Christian feelings” in him. The room erupted in
laughter and applause.  That night, an NBC News poll showing their party taking the
lion’s share of the blame for the shutdown made the rounds among
chiefs of staff for Republican lawmakers, sparking dejection and
in some cases panic about how to find a way out of the impasse.  A spate of talks between Boehner’s senior staff and Obama’s
followed. The next day, after markets closed, the White House
made it clear it was no longer interested in dealing with the
House and was instead turning its attention to the Senate.  Losing Patience  Many Senate Republicans had lost patience with Cruz, who
continued to insist a fight to defund the health-care law must
be a condition of funding the government. At a closed meeting
Oct. 11, he suggested that Republicans call up one of the House-passed measures to re-open pieces of the government, then amend
it with health-care law revisions and dare Democrats to vote it
down.  A colleague had to remind Cruz that Senate Republicans, as
the chamber’s minority, didn’t have the power to put legislation
on the agenda.  Across the Capitol, Boehner was confiding to Republican
Senators  Saxby Chambliss  of  Georgia  and  Lindsey Graham  of  South
Carolina , two friends from their days serving in the House, that
he believed it was up to McConnell to cut whatever deal was
possible.  “I got the sense from him that, ‘Look, we’ve done all that
we can do, and my guys say they’re not going to vote for
anything that is being talked about by the White House or by the
Senate Democrats, and we think it’s just best to give it to you
guys and let y’all do it,’” Chambliss said of Boehner on Oct.
14.  ‘Good Leaders’  McConnell “wasn’t looking forward to it, but good leaders
lead, and he grabbed it, and he’s going to negotiate the best
deal he can get,” said Chambliss. “He’s doing that with no
leverage whatsoever.”  McConnell engaged in negotiations with Reid, even as
Republican Senator Susan Collins of  Maine  spearheaded separate
talks with the lawmakers that included Manchin on a potential
deal. The White House was urging Democratic leaders to stay
unified against that group’s emerging proposal, which would have
locked in lower spending levels for much of next year, and Reid
made sure that they did.  Amazing Grace  With Reid short-circuiting the Collins-Manchin discussions,
Boehner told his troops he was ready to try one final gambit. On
a sun-drenched morning on Oct. 15, House Republicans huddled in
the basement of the Capitol to hear his latest plan.  The mood was somber as the meeting opened with
Representative Steve Southerland of  Florida , a former funeral
home director, leading the group in the spiritual “Amazing
Grace.”  When Boehner rose to speak, he started with the “Serenity
Prayer” made famous by Alcoholics Anonymous -- which includes
the plea to “accept the things I cannot change” -- and
described his proposal as “our only play.”  It would re-open the government with enough funding to last
through Jan. 14, 2014, raise the debt ceiling with borrowing
authority to last until Feb. 7, scrap lawmakers’ and the
president’s federally funded health-insurance premiums under
Obamacare, tighten income verification for insurance enrollees
seeking federal subsidies, and repeal an excise tax on medical
devices.  Tea Party Republicans were irate, arguing the proposal
didn’t fundamentally change the health-care law or promise
future spending reductions to reduce the  deficit . Others rallied
to the idea, saying they’d had enough of the fight that was
taking a political toll.  Way Out  “It’s not like it’s Day One or Day Two here, we’re
figuring out that our options are limited in a split government,
and maybe some of the optimistic views from the Senate couldn’t
or wouldn’t come to pass,” said Republican Representative Bill Huizenga of Michigan. “You start looking around and going, ‘Ok,
let’s figure out a way off the island here’ -- that’s where we
are.”  Republicans, including those from politically competitive
districts who had been pressing for an end to the shutdown,
called for a resolution. “This is it,” Representative Devin Nunes of California said on his way out of the meeting. “End of
the ‘Star Wars’ convention today.”  Lacking Support  It wasn’t that simple. As word spread to the Senate that
the emerging bipartisan deal Reid was brokering was at risk
because of Boehner’s new proposal, House leaders found they
didn’t have the votes for it. In a frenzied afternoon of
meetings and phone calls, they tried without success to modify
the plan in ways that might corral the 217 votes necessary to
push through a measure they knew Democrats would oppose.  The death knell came just before dinner time. Heritage
Action for America, an advocacy group whose parent organization,
the  Heritage Foundation , is headed by former Senator  Jim DeMint 
of South Carolina, announced it was opposing Boehner’s measure.
It also warned lawmakers that a vote in favor would be a black
mark on its legislative scorecard -- and invite a primary
challenge. As night fell, the House leadership team put out word
that there would be no vote.  The Senate was back in the driver’s seat, and by midday
yesterday -- hours before the debt ceiling deadline -- a deal
had been struck. Cruz, the last potential stumbling block to
action, announced he wouldn’t try to delay the agreement, and by
mid-afternoon, Boehner let it be known he wouldn’t stall action
in the House either.  “We stuck together, we lost, and we’ll regroup,” Boehner
told Republicans behind closed doors, said Representatives
Richard Hudson of  North Carolina  and Mick Mulvaney of South
Carolina, who were present.  “It’s never easy for two sides to reach a consensus,”
Reid said on the Senate floor. “This time was really hard.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  