-- Related to Start Work on Hudson Yards Platform in January
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-10-17T18:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/related-to-start-work-on-hudson-yards-rail-platform-in-january.html
Related Cos. plans to start work in
January on a deck at Hudson Yards that would enable the
developer to complete the first half of the $20 billion project
on  Manhattan ’s West Side.  The platform must be built over a portion of the
Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s West Side Rail Yard
before the company can begin a second skyscraper at the site.
The 80-story building will have an observation deck, Jay Cross,
president of Related Hudson Yards, said today at a New York
Building Congress forum.  Related envisions 17 million square feet (1.6 million
square meters) of construction at Hudson Yards, including two
additional sites north of the yards that the company has mostly
acquired, said Cross, who called it “the biggest project in
America, ever.”  The proposal is part of Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s plan to
extend Manhattan’s  midtown business district  to the west toward
the Hudson River. The mayor in 2011 compared Hudson Yards to
 London ’s Canary Wharf, which created a modern office district on
the eastern side of that city. New York-based Related plans to
build a mix of office and apartment towers, parks and cultural
venues at the site.  The eastern half of the Hudson Yards development, totaling
10 million square feet, probably will be completed by 2018,
Cross said. In that first phase is the 52-story south tower
slated to become the home of the luxury-handbag maker  Coach Inc. (COH) 
It also would include the second skyscraper, known as the north
tower, and a seven-level retail complex.  Engineering Feat  Related expects the Coach tower to be topped off by next
September, Cross said.  Two-thirds of the project’s first phase requires the
platform over the rail yards. The deck, which requires more than
250 caissons, or vertical supports, will cost $721 million,
according to records the company has filed with the city.  Constructing it is a “difficult” engineering feat because
part of it would be where 30 train tracks filter into two
connections that serve Pennsylvania Station, the busiest U.S.
commuter rail hub, east of the site, Cross said. That area,
known as “the throat,” can’t contain any supports because of
switches located there.  Hudson Boulevard  Among the two new projects added to the Hudson Yards plan
is the redesign of the 47-story tower at 1 Hudson Boulevard,
which would be primarily an office building for law firms, Cross
said. The site, north of the yards between West 33rd and 34th
streets, was purchased earlier this year from Gary Barnett’s
Extell Development Co.  On the opposite side of Hudson Boulevard, Related plans to
build a 62-story skyscraper on the site of Coach’s current
headquarters at 504-522 West 34th St. The company needs to
acquire adjacent parcels before starting that building.  The two sites straddle a park being built by the city that
will split the block between 10th and 11th avenues in two.
Hudson Boulevard will become “the Park Avenue of the West
Side,” Cross said.  Hudson Yards will be served by the expansion of the No. 7
subway line, on which Mayor Bloomberg is expected to take the
ceremonial first ride before his term ends at the end of the
year, Cross said. The extension is likely to be opened to the
public sometime next year, he said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Two days ago, Related received approval for a $328 million
exemption from  New York  City real estate taxes for Hudson Yards.
Its partner in the development is Oxford Properties Group, the
Toronto-based real estate arm of Ontario Municipal Employees
Retirement System.  “This project is as big as the rest of Related put
together,” Cross said. “And when we say five years, we’re only
talking about the eastern yards. The western yards is another
five-plus years after that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  