-- Ringgit Rises to One-Month High as U.S. Deal Spurs Fed Delay Bet
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-10-17T09:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/ringgit-leads-asia-s-advance-as-u-s-senate-passes-debt-deal.html
Malaysia’s ringgit rose to a one-month high on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will delay a
reduction in bond purchases until the debt-ceiling debate is
totally resolved. Sovereign bonds advanced.  President  Barack Obama  signed into law a measure ending the
16-day government shutdown and extending the nation’s borrowing
authority until early next year. The deal funds the government
at Republican-backed spending levels through Jan. 15, 2014, and
suspends the debt limit through Feb. 7. Malaysia may unveil
measures in the Oct. 25 budget to trim its fiscal deficit to 3
percent of gross domestic product from 4.5 percent,  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist in  Singapore  at Westpac Banking
Corp., wrote in a research note yesterday.  “There was a broad sell-off in the dollar,” said Andy Ji,
a Singapore-based currency strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia . “Tapering might not take place until there’s some
kind of resolution on the debt ceiling on a more permanent
basis.”  The ringgit strengthened 0.8 percent to 3.1502 per dollar
at the close in  Kuala Lumpur , according to prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg. It reached 3.1467, the strongest
since Sept. 20. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index fell 0.6 percent,
adding to yesterday’s 0.1 percent drop.  U.S. Rating  China’s Dagong Global Credit Rating Co. downgraded the
local- and foreign-currency credit ratings of the U.S. to A-from A, maintaining a negative outlook, citing concern about the
deterioration on the U.S. government’s solvency, according to a
statement from the company today.  The greenback came under renewed selling pressure after the
downgrade as it highlighted concern about a potential similar
move by  Fitch Ratings , according to a research report from
Citigroup Inc. today. Fitch placed the U.S.’s AAA credit grade
on rating watch negative yesterday.  Should Malaysia announce fiscal consolidation measures in
next week’s budget, it would help the ringgit break out of the
3.15 to 3.25 per dollar range, according to Westpac’s Cavenagh.
A definitive push below 3.15 would target a move back toward
3.08, he said in the research note.  “In the near term, risk sentiment is positive because of
the deal being struck,” said Sim Moh Siong, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of Singapore Ltd. “But, at the same time,
when you look at the details of the deal, it’s more like kicking
the can down the road.”  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 60 basis points
to 8.88 percent.  The yield on the 3.172 percent notes due July 2016 dropped
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.17 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level
since June 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 