-- Rio 2016 Olympic Golf Course Planners Say Alligators Won’t Bite
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-10-18T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/rio-2016-olympic-golf-course-planners-say-alligators-won-t-bite.html
Organizers of the first Olympic golf
tournament in 112 years say there is little risk of alligator-like creatures slithering onto fairways or greens during the
2016  Rio de Janeiro  Games.  As many as 6,000 caimans, members of the alligator family,
live in sewage-infested lagoons around western Rio, and some
have moved into water features built as part of Gil Hanse’s
design for  Brazil ’s first public golf course. The reptiles, much
smaller and more docile than crocodiles, are not considered a
risk to people, though encroachment on their habitat has meant
contact with humans is increasing.  “We’ll have a strategy in place that will minimize any
possibility of a player or spectator coming across these,”
Anthony Scanlon, executive director of the International Golf
Federation, told reporters in Rio de Janeiro yesterday. “The
risk is minimal.”  Some caimans have migrated toward ponds on the site of the
golf course as their natural mangrove-filled habitat has become
inundated with sewage from condominiums that have mushroomed in
recent years around Rio’s Barra district.  “The other thing to remember about these alligators is, if
they do arrive, they arrive at night and we won’t be playing
golf at night,” Scanlon said on a visit to Rio. “I don’t think
we’re going to get a bite.”  Capybaras, Too  Scanlon said course builders are working with conservation
experts to contain animals including the caiman and the
capybara, the largest rodent and potentially more of a risk to
the course.  “They’re herbivores so they could potentially dig up the
grass,” he said of the capybaras, who also live near water.  Scanlon pointed out wildlife isn’t uncommon at golf
courses, such as alligators in  Florida  and kangaroos in his
native  Australia .  “Where you have a natural green space like this it
attracts wildlife, which is what you want,” Scanlon said. “You
want to create your own ecosystem.”  Golf is returning to the  Olympic  program for the first time
since 1904. Both the men’s and women’s events will feature 72-hole stroke-play formats.  The world’s top 15 players will qualify, with a maximum of
four representatives from each nation. Outside of the elite 15,
each competing federation can select up to two players to
compete in the 60-player tournaments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  