-- Roche CEO Schwan Rejects Talk of Novartis Drugs Merger
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-10-17T16:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/roche-ceo-schwan-rejects-talk-of-novartis-drugs-merger.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s founding families
want the Swiss drugmaker to stay independent, Chief Executive
Officer Severin Schwan said, squelching speculation that
circulated since a board member at crosstown rival  Novartis AG (NOVN) 
said last month a merger could make sense.  “Nothing has changed with regards to Roche’s position
towards Novartis,” Schwan said in a conference call with
reporters today. “The families Hoffmann and Oeri have
repeatedly stated they’re committed to Roche’s independence.”  Novartis board member Pierre Landolt said a merger could
make sense “from an objective point of view” in a September
interview with Basler Zeitung. The newspaper, based in  Basel ,
also the home of both Swiss drugmakers, quoted Landolt as saying
that combining the companies would make a European
“pharmaceutical champion.”  Schwan has told investors Roche may make smaller deals to
strengthen its core diagnostics and pharmaceutical businesses.
In a Bloomberg interview in September, he predicted Roche will
buy companies worth less than $1 billion, with a bigger deal
comparable to the $3.4 billion purchase of Ventana Medical
Systems Inc. in 2008 occurring from “time to time.”  Roche isn’t into “mega-mergers,” the executive repeated
in a teleconference with investors today. “We are firmly
committed to bolt-on acquisitions.”  Novartis holds 33 percent of Roche’s  voting shares . Former
Chairman  Daniel Vasella  amassed the stake more than a decade ago
but was unable to persuade Roche’s founding families -- who
 control  50.1 percent of the voting shares -- to agree to a
merger. Family members Andre Hoffmann and Andreas Oeri serve on
Roche’s board, Hoffmann as vice chairman.  Rare Diseases  Roche quashed rumors last month that it was preparing a bid
for  BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. (BMRN) , a U.S. biotechnology company
that would have given the Swiss drugmaker a portfolio of
medicines to treat rare diseases. Schwan denied a report that
Roche was raising financing for the deal. The company was also
said to have been weighing a bid in July for  Alexion
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXN)  No Alexion offer has materialized.  The drugmaker looked at 1,500 deal opportunities -- mostly
small deals, licensing possibilities and collaborations -- last
year, resulting in about 50 deals, Schwan said.  Roche today confirmed the 2013 forecasts it gave in
January, including an increase in sales at constant exchange
rates in line with last year’s pace. Sales climbed 4 percent on
that basis in 2012. Roche also aims for core earnings per share
to grow faster than sales.  Cheaper Biosimilars  Third-quarter sales rose to 11.6 billion Swiss francs
($12.7 billion) from 11.3 billion francs a year earlier, as
demand for Roche’s main cancer medicines in the U.S. and  China 
offset slower sales increases at its diagnostics division. That
beat the 11.5 billion-franc average of 11 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It was a decent, quiet sales quarter,”  Tim Anderson , a
New York-based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in
a note to investors. Anderson has an outperform rating on
Roche’s shares.  Roche fell 0.5 percent to 244.3 francs in Zurich. The
shares have returned 37 percent this year compared with a 20
percent return in the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  The company is racing to build its portfolio of new drugs
before cheaper biosimilar copies of two of its bestsellers --
Rituxan for leukemia and Herceptin for  breast cancer  -- reach
the market. New drug successes in cancer, where Roche already is
market leader, have been tempered by failures in medicines
outside that field.  Roche doesn’t release quarterly earnings reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  