-- Roche Quarterly Revenue Advances on Sales of Cancer Drugs
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-10-17T05:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/roche-quarterly-revenue-advances-on-sales-of-cancer-drugs.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  said third-quarter
sales rose 2.7 percent, as demand for its main cancer medicines
in the U.S. and  China  offset slower sales increases at its
diagnostics division.  Sales rose to 11.6 billion Swiss francs ($12.7 billion)
from 11.3 billion francs a year earlier, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said in a statement today. That beat the 11.5
billion-franc average of 11 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Roche is racing to build its portfolio of new drugs before
cheaper biosimilar copies of two of its bestsellers -- Rituxan
for leukemia and Herceptin for breast cancer -- reach the
market. New drug successes in cancer, where Roche already is
market leader, have been tempered by failures in medicines
outside that field.  Roche quashed rumors last month that it was preparing a bid
for  BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. (BMRN) , a U.S. biotechnology company
that would have given the Swiss drugmaker a portfolio of
medicines to treat rare diseases. Chief Executive Officer
Severin Schwan denied a report that Roche was raising financing
for the deal. The company was also said to have been weighing a
bid in July for  Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXN)  No Alexion offer
has materialized.  The drugmaker today confirmed the 2013 forecasts it gave in
January, including an increase in sales at constant exchange
rates in line with last year’s pace. Sales climbed 4 percent on
that basis in 2012. Roche also aims for core earnings per share
to grow faster than sales.  Roche doesn’t release quarterly earnings reports. A
conference call with reporters is scheduled for 8 a.m. Basel
time today, and the company plans a call with investors at 2
p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  