-- Romario Says Plan to Fix Brazilian Soccer Team Debt Won’t Work
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-10-17T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/romario-says-plan-to-fix-brazilian-soccer-team-debt-won-t-work.html
Romario, the  World Cup  winner who’s
now a Brazilian lawmaker, said a proposal by the country’s
soccer governing body to penalize teams that default on tax debt
is unworkable.  Brazil’s government is discussing the creation of a
structure for the management of soccer teams after clubs amassed
3.5 billion reais ($1.6 billion) in unpaid taxes, according to
the sports ministry. The Confederacao Brasileira de Futebol, or
CBF, suggested the government agree long-term repayment
schedules and in return the soccer body would bar teams that fail
to keep up from competing.  Romario, the top scorer on Brazil’s 1994 World Cup-winning
squad, said the influence of the country’s biggest clubs makes
any such penalty unlikely. The CBF also is proposing points
penalties for teams that delay wage payments to players or staff,
a regular occurrence in Brazilian soccer.  “Do you really think that the CBF has the moral courage
and ability to make Vasco, Flamengo or Corinthians fall because
they did not pay the debts?” Romario, a deputy in  Brazil ’s
lower house, said yesterday, according to comments published on
the parliament’s website. “That’s a lie. This won’t happen.
This is a utopia and will not exist.”  While income from sponsors and broadcasters has boosted the
revenue of teams in the elite Brazilian championship, the
government has been forced to intervene to support clubs in a
country where soccer is the most-popular sport, and where next
year’s World Cup will be staged.  Millions Owed  Among the biggest debtors are Rio de Janeiro-based teams
including Brazil’s best-supported club  Flamengo , which owes
about 750 million reais, according to the club’s accounts. Its
local rivals Fluminense and Botafogo owe a combined 1 billion
reais, their accounts say.  Getting teams to improve corporate governance is a priority,
with soccer officials warning that some mismanaged clubs could
go out of business. Last year, the brother of two-time World
Player of the Year Ronaldinho took items from Flamengo’s club
shop after the team failed to pay the striker’s salary.  The sports ministry has said it supports reorganizing club
debt and introducing penalties for teams that fail to meet the
requirements. From this year, European soccer’s governing body
 UEFA  can ban teams from competitions, including the elite
 Champions League , if they fail to keep losses within a target
range.  Vilson de Andrade, a CBF representative who attended
yesterday’s sport and leisure commission hearing into soccer
debt, said several clubs “won’t open their doors” when the new
season starts in January unless a solution is found.  “This is the reality of Brazilian football,” de Andrade
told lawmakers. “I have absolutely no shame admitting that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 