-- Russian Investment to Incomes Unexpectedly Fall as Prospects Dim
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-10-17T16:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/russian-investment-to-incomes-unexpectedly-fall-as-prospects-dim.html
Russian investment and real
disposable incomes unexpectedly fell in September and  consumer
spending  slowed, adding to signs the economic recovery is
failing to gain momentum.  Fixed-capital investment fell 1.6 percent from a year
earlier after a 3.9 percent drop in August, with incomes
shrinking 1.3 percent in the first decline in four months, the
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said today in an e-mailed
statement. Economists forecast increases of 0.7 percent and 3
percent, respectively, according to the median estimates in two
Bloomberg surveys.  Unemployment (RUUER)  unexpectedly rose.  Russia’s $2 trillion economy, hobbled by weaker global
demand for its exports of oil, natural gas and metals, is
growing at the slowest pace since a 2009 contraction. The
Economy Ministry, which has cut its growth forecasts twice this
year, projects expansion to at 1.8 percent in 2013.  “We see stagnation not only in the first half of the year,
but also in the third quarter, with gross domestic product
growth at almost zero,” Deputy Economy Minister Andrey Klepach
told lawmakers yesterday, adding that the 1.8 growth estimate is
“rather optimistic.”  The Micex Index of 50 stocks retreated 1.3 percent to
1,512.32 by the close in Moscow. The ruble was little changed at
31.9615 per dollar by 6:00 p.m.  Retail sales grew 3 percent in September from a year
earlier after a 4 percent increase in August. The median
estimate of 17 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 3.9
percent rise. Joblessness increased to 5.3 percent, missing the
median estimate of 16 economists for the rate to remain at 5.2
percent.  “In spite of a moderate improvement in developed
countries, there are growing concerns about economic growth in
the developing world,” UralSib Financial Corp. economists
Alexey Devyatov and Olga Sterina said in an e-mailed note.
“This is hitting  Russia  in spite of its relatively good
fundamentals: industry, investment, and the ruble remain under
pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  