-- Reckitt Heroin-Addiction Unit Review Points to Possible Sale
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-10-22T09:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/sabmiller-first-half-sales-increase-as-europe-shows-improvement.html
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  said it
will start a strategic review of its pharmaceutical unit,
pointing to the possible sale of a business that analysts say
could fetch at least 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion).  The review will take “some time” and Reckitt Benckiser
plans to update investors in 2014, the Slough, England-based
maker of Durex condoms said today. It also raised its full-year
revenue guidance, sending the  shares  up as much as 6.2 percent.  Analysts have advocated a sale of the pharmaceutical unit,
which gets almost all of its revenue from Suboxone, a drug to 
treat addiction to opioids including heroin. Chief Executive 
Officer Rakesh Kapoor has said that is not “a space we want to 
be in.” The review comes seven months after the first generic 
variants of the drug began to erode sales and profit margins. 
Since 2010, Suboxone has been sold in a film-strip format which 
has captured more than two-thirds of the market in the U.S.  “We think now is the right time to seek an exit,” said
 Graham Jones , an analyst at Panmure Gordon. “Whether RBP is
worth 1 billion or 4 billion pounds is of less consequence than
the management being focused on managing the core business.”  Reckitt Benckiser  rose  5.8 percent to 4,760 pence at 9:42
a.m. in  London , the steepest gain in the U.K. benchmark FTSE 100
Index. The stock has gained 23 percent this year.  Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Andrew Wood  said the most
likely outcomes are a sale or spinoff of the unit. Keeping the
business is less likely as investors “are not attributing
enough value to this business within Reckitt,” he said.  Generic Competition  Valuations for RB Pharma were as high as 6.3 billion pounds
two years ago, yet have declined now that the business faces
threats from generic and branded competition after several years
of dominating the $1.7 billion opioid-dependency treatment
market. Exane BNP Paribas currently estimates that the unit
could be worth about 1.5 billion pounds, while Investec analysts
value it at as much as 5.5 billion pounds.  Beyond generics, Suboxone faces competition from Orexo AB’s
tablet Zubsolv, which won U.S. regulatory approval in July and
began selling in September. Orexo has said Zubsolv has a market
potential of at least $500 million in annual sales.  “The number of new threats that will impact RBP in 2014
makes this a buyer’s market for RBP,” said  Pablo Zuanic , an
analyst at  Liberum Capital  in  New York .  The division’s sales fell 16 percent at constant exchange
rates in the third quarter, hurt by a decision to stop making
tablet versions of Suboxone in March amid increased competition.
That was a steeper rate than the 12 percent decline in the
second quarter. Suboxone film will lose market share over time,
Chief Financial Officer Adrian Hennah said on a conference call.  ‘Fantastic Business’  “We’ve always said it’s a fantastic business, but it’s not
core to the company,” CEO Kapoor said in a telephone interview
today. “I’ve said that several months after the entry of
generics we will confirm the impact of generics. We are now in
that phase. Nothing is ruled out.”  The company has not yet hired advisers, Kapoor said.  The adjusted operating profit margin for Suboxone narrowed
to 57 percent in the first half from 63.6 percent in the same
period a year ago, the company said in July, as Suboxone film is
less profitable than the tablets. The film version of Suboxone
was introduced in September 2010, a year after the tablet
version lost U.S. patent protection.  The medicine combines buprenorphine, a painkiller derived
from the opium poppy, with naloxone, a chemical that blunts
withdrawal symptoms. The maker of French’s mustard and Nurofen
painkillers is also developing an injectable Suboxone and a
product for cocaine addicts.  Revenue Forecast  Reckitt Benckiser said today it expects full-year revenue
to grow at least 6 percent, including acquisitions and
divestments and excluding results from the pharma unit. It had
previously expected growth at the upper end of 5 percent to 6
percent, as well as stable operating profit margins.  Non-pharmaceutical sales advanced 5 percent on a comparable
basis in the third quarter, the company also said. The median
 estimate  of 10 analysts was for a 4.7 percent gain.  The third-quarter performance was boosted by a 10 percent
gain in sales in  Latin America  and  Asia , a region where other
consumer-product companies such as Unilever have witnessed
decelerating growth. Kapoor said emerging-market growth rates
are “modestly down” yet still “good.”  Sales in  Europe  and  North America  rose 2 percent in the
quarter, down from 3 percent growth in the first half.
Conditions in Europe remain “challenging,” the company said.  According to Kapoor, there’s a “disconnect” between
improving economic figures in the U.S. and  consumer confidence .  “Big U.S. retailers are voicing concerns about the state
of the consumer,” the CEO said. “The U.S. market is not very
clear to me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  