-- SAC Portfolio Manager Levavasseur Said to Join Millennium
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-10-17T14:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/sac-portfolio-manager-levavasseur-said-to-join-millennium.html
Johan Levavasseur, a former SAC
Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager, left the $14 billion
hedge-fund firm for Israel Englander’s Millennium Management
LLC, according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  Levavasseur, who trades stocks of basic-material and
industrial companies, joined New York-based Millennium’s London
office, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
his hiring hasn’t been announced publicly. His registration with
the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority as a SAC employee lapsed
Oct. 15, the regulator’s website shows.  Levavasseur is at least the fourth portfolio manager to
leave SAC’s London unit this year, according to regulatory
records and people with knowledge of the matter. SAC, founded by
 Steven A. Cohen  21 years ago, is reviewing how many traders it
needs as it prepares to shrink after a U.S. grand jury indicted
the firm in July over  insider-trading  allegations.  Levavasseur didn’t return a phone call or an e-mail seeking
comment. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for New York-based
SAC, declined to comment. Officials at Millennium in  New York 
declined to comment.  Woei Chan, Alidod Shirinbekov and Paul Crouch, portfolio
managers who buy and sell stocks based on signals from computer
models, all departed SAC’s London unit last month. Levavasseur
trades equities based on fundamental analysis by researching
companies’ business prospects and factors such as demand for
commodities, the people said.  Reducing Staff  SAC expects assets to decline by the start of 2014 to $9
billion, almost all of which will be Cohen and his employees’
personal wealth, a person with knowledge of the matter said
earlier this month. That will lead the firm to reduce staff to
ensure its most profitable traders continue to oversee as much
money as possible, the person said.  Millennium’s assets under management almost tripled to  $19
billion  since June 2010, prompting the firm to go on a hiring
spree. Englander, a former floor broker on the  American Stock
Exchange , founded the firm in 1989 with $35 million.  The U.S. said in its July 25 indictment that SAC engaged in
unprecedented insider trading for more than a decade. At the
time of the indictment, SAC said it never encouraged, promoted
or tolerated illegal trading and takes its compliance
obligations seriously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  