-- Samsung, Coppola, Dotcom, Battelle: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/samsung-coppola-dotcom-battelle-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  must produce
information about the extent of its violation of a court order
protecting  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s patent licensing agreements, a federal
court ruled.  U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh in San Jose, California,
upheld U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul S. Grewal’s sanction requiring
Samsung to produce Apple e-mails and communications among
Samsung employees, and to make various witnesses available to
Apple because of the South Korean company’s violation. Samsung
argued that Grewal’s order was “grossly overbroad” and would
cause it to violate attorney-client protections.  “In light of the fact that Samsung has been unable to
produce satisfactory answers to any questions about the extent
and use of the improper disclosures despite having three months
to investigate, this court finds that it was necessary for
Magistrate Judge Grewal to order court-supervised discovery and
that the scope of his order was not overly broad,” Koh wrote in
her Oct. 15 ruling.  Koh’s order is part of a patent dispute in federal court in
 San Jose  between the companies covering technology in
smartphones. In the first of two lawsuits, a jury awarded
Cupertino, California-based Apple $1.05 billion in damages --
later lowered to $639.4 million -- after finding Suwon, South
Korea-based Samsung infringed six of the iPhone-maker’s mobile-device patents.  The violation concerns copies of Apple’s patent license
agreements with  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Ericsson,  Sharp Corp. (6753)  and  Royal
Philips (PHIA)  NV. Apple produced reports containing “key terms” of
the agreements -- marked “Attorney Eyes Only” -- as part of
information sharing in the patent-infringement litigation before
Koh, according to Grewal’s Oct. 2 order.  Samsung’s outside counsel e-mailed a version of the report
to Samsung employees and lawyers representing the company in
“courts and jurisdictions outside the  United States ,”
according to the order.  Adam Yates , a Samsung spokesman, declined to comment on
Koh’s ruling. Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, also
declined to comment on it.  The earlier case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd., 11-cv-01846, and the second case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co., 12-cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Francis Ford Coppola Objects to U.K. Food Company’s Name Use  GMYL LP, owner of the trademarks related to film director
Francis Ford Coppola’s wine, food, restaurant and other
businesses, sued a London-based food company for trademark
infringement.  According to the complaint filed Oct. 11 in federal court
in San Francisco, the Coppola marks have been in use for wine
since 1990, for Italian food products since 1998 and for
restaurant services since 1999.  The complaint lists numerous Coppola trademarks including
“ Francis Ford Coppola  Presents,” “Francis Ford Coppola
Director’s Cut,” “Coppola,” “Coppola Rosso & Bianco” and
“Francis Coppola Sofia.”  Coppola, who won fame for directing the “Godfather”
films, owns the  Francis Ford Coppola winery  in Geyserville,
California, as well as the Inglenook Winery in Rutherford, in
the heart of California’s Napa Valley wine country.  London-based  Coppola Foods Ltd.  is the defendant in this
suit. According to court papers, the British company filed an
application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to
register a Coppola-related trademark, which is being opposed by
GMYL. The owner of the U.S. Coppola trademarks also objects to
iPhone and iPod “Coppola” applications available in Apple
Inc.’s iTunes  App Store .  The applications provide recipes and a catalog of food
products bearing the British company’s Coppola label, according
to court papers. Many of these food products -- including olive
oil, pastas and sauces --  are identical to those sold by the
U.S. trademark holder under the Coppola brand, GMYL said in its
pleadings.  The public is confused by the name similarity, GMYL said,
and the U.S. company is harmed economically.  GMYL asked the court to issue an order barring the use of
allegedly infringing marks, and for the destruction of all
infringing promotional materials.  The company also seeks to be transferred two of the British
company’s Internet domain names, www.coppolafoods.com and
www.coppolafoodsgroup.com.  In addition to money damages, GMYL asked for awards of the
British company’s profits derived from its alleged infringement,
extra damages to punish that company for its actions, and
litigation costs and attorney fees.  Coppola Foods didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is GMYL LP v. Ernesto Coppola, 13-cv-04739, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Kim Dotcom Campaign Donation Fells Minister in N.Z. Government  A campaign donation by Internet entrepreneur and alleged
copyright pirate Kim Dotcom has forced the resignation of a New
Zealand government minister.  John Banks resigned yesterday as minister for regulatory
reform and small business after the Auckland District Court
ordered him to stand trial over allegations of electoral fraud
relating to Dotcom’s NZ$50,000 ($42,000) donation.  Banks is accused of knowingly filing a false election
return in his failed 2010 Auckland mayoral bid, listing
donations from Dotcom and casino operator SkyCity Entertainment
Group Ltd. as anonymous when he knew their source -- an offense
under the Electoral Act. He denies the allegations.  Banks’s resignation as a minister in Prime Minister John
Key’s government is the latest twist in Dotcom’s New Zealand
story. Armed police stormed the German’s Auckland mansion in
January last year after the U.S. alleged his Megaupload cloud-storage Internet site was at the center of the biggest copyright
infringement case in its history. Key was later forced to
apologize to Dotcom -- who still faces extradition to the U.S. -
- over the government’s illegal spying on him.  Dotcom gave evidence that Banks asked him to split his
donation into two NZ$25,000 checks after Banks was flown in
Dotcom’s private helicopter to his mansion in 2010, Fairfax
Media reported.  “I was offended, I don’t mind if people know,” Dotcom
told the court, according to Fairfax. Banks told him, “Kim, if
I help you in the future it’s better no one knows about your
donation,” Fairfax quoted Dotcom as saying.  Banks has said he can’t recall the helicopter ride and is
innocent of the charges.  “Mr. Banks maintains his innocence but realizes this is a
distraction for the government,” Key said in a statement
yesterday. “If Mr. Banks is successful on appeal or proved to
be not guilty at trial, it is my intention to reinstate him as a
minister.”  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Battelle Sues Ex-Employee Over Power-Grid Security Software  Battelle Memorial Institute’s Battelle Energy Alliance,
which operates the  Idaho National Laboratory  owned by the U.S.
Energy Department, sued one of its former employees, claiming
that a company he started is selling a misappropriated software
product and that its release could imperil national security.  The alliance was given the task of developing software
aimed at detecting suspicious activity on a computer network
that could be part of attacks on power stations and power grids,
according to the Oct. 10 complaint.  Corey Thuen was one of five developers who worked on the
project, which was named Sophia, after the Greek goddess of
wisdom. Battelle said it lacked the ability to commercialize
Sophia so began a bidding process to select a third-party
partner who would receive the exclusive license to the product.  Thuen started a company --  Southfork Security , in  Idaho 
Falls, Idaho -- to bid on the licensing rights. He was then
required to sign a conflict-of-interest agreement barring the
use for personal gain of any non-public information related to
Sophia acquired during his employment at Battelle, according to
the complaint.  He then took a leave of absence from Battelle in February
to devote his time to developing Southfork, Battelle said in the
court papers. He submitted a licensing proposal before
withdrawing from the bidding process.  On May 1, Southfork began advertising a product called
Visdom. Battelle claims that this product is a copy of Sophia,
and that it’s intended to scuttle a pending patent application
for Sophia. Southfork’s use of Visdom is an attempt to play off
Sophia’s name, Battelle claimed.  Battelle went to court, asking for an order barring the
distribution of Visdom, and for the destruction of “any and all
infringing material products embodying the unauthorized
copying” of Sophia. Additionally, Battelle asked for money
damages, the disabling of Southfork’s website and the seizure of
Thuen’s computers’ hard drives.  On Oct. 15, the court issued an order barring the release
by Southfork of Visdom or Sophia and the surrender of Thuen’s
hard drive to a forensic expert retained by Battelle. The court
set a hearing for today to give Thuen an opportunity to respond.  Thuen didn’t reply immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment on the case. His company’s website says that people at
Southfork worked at the national lab run by Battelle, “hacked
there, and made some cool tools. Now we’re doing it on our
own.”  The case is Battelle Energy Alliance LLC v. Southfork
Security Inc., 13-cv-00442, U.S. District Court, District of
Idaho (Pocatello).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  