-- Samsung Shuns Patent Injunctions to End EU Antitrust Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-10-17T11:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/samsung-shuns-patent-injunctions-to-end-eu-antitrust-probe.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
biggest smartphone maker, pledged to avoid legal injunctions in
Europe for key phone patents as it sought to end a European
Union antitrust probe triggered by a dispute with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Samsung won’t seek injunctions to block sales of
smartphones and tablets using its standard-essential patents for
five years against companies willing to seek fair licensing
terms, according to proposals outlined by the European
Commission in a  statement  today.  “Abuses must be prevented so that standard-setting works
properly and consumers do not have to suffer negative
consequences from the so-called patent wars,” EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement. “If we
reach a good solution in this case, it will bring clarity to the
industry.”  The EU is cracking down on patent abuses as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Motorola Mobility unit,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Apple and Samsung trade
victories in divergent court rulings across the world on
intellectual property. Almunia has said he’s targeting “rules
of the game” to prevent companies from unfairly leveraging
their inventions to thwart rivals.  The proposed commitments “will not affect Samsung’s
distribution practices or production capabilities in any way,”
Rhee So-eui, a company spokeswoman in  Seoul , said by e-mail.  ‘Balanced Approach’  “Samsung is committed to fair and reasonable licensing of
our technologies and believes a balanced approach to patent
licensing will promote innovations to the benefit of consumers
and the industry,” she said. “We are confident that the
proposed commitments are a constructive reflection of this.”  Seeking an injunction on a patent used in a standard
agreed by an industry may break EU antitrust rules if the
patent-holder previously promised to license the patents on
fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and a licensee is
willing to pay a fair fee, the commission said in its statement.  Almunia said forthcoming decisions on other standards cases
will give more guidance, including two involving  Motorola
Mobility (MMI)  Holdings. “There are some other elements that will
come in the next ones,” he told reporters in Brussels today.  Samsung must negotiate licenses for up to 12 months and
agree to terms set by a court or an arbitrator if no agreement
can be reached. Samsung and a potential licensee will have to
accept arbitration if they can’t agree on a court or arbitrator.  Reduced Choice  Consumers are harmed by increased prices, reduced product
choice and less innovation when companies seek royalty rates or
broad cross-licenses that a competitor won’t agree to, the EU
said.  If Samsung’s rivals and customers agree that the company’s
offer allays antitrust concerns, regulators can make the offer
binding on Samsung and end the EU probe as well as any threat of
a fine. Samsung’s commitments would be monitored by an
independent trustee. Samsung would risk fines of as much as 10
percent of yearly revenue if it breaks its pledge.  The EU began probing Samsung last year on injunctions it
took in 2011 to block sales of Apple products using Samsung’s 3G
UMTS patents. Regulators say Apple was willing to license the
patents on fair terms and Samsung’s injunctions violated
competition rules. Samsung withdraw injunctions in December,
before the EU sent it an antitrust complaint.  In a separate probe by the EU, Google’s Motorola Mobility
unit responded at an oral hearing on Sept. 30 to EU accusations
that it used key technology patents to hinder Apple.  The commission in May sent a formal complaint to Motorola
Mobility saying it suspects the company is abusing its dominant
position by “seeking and enforcing” injunctions against Apple
in  Germany  based on standard-essential patents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Chapman at 
 pchapman10@bloomberg.net  