-- HSBC Exits Retail Broking, Depository Services in India
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-10-17T12:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/hsbc-exits-retail-broking-depository-services-in-india.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest
lender, is closing the unit that offers retail broking and
retail depository services in  India  as the bank focuses on
expanding faster-growing operations.  The London-based lender will not open any new broking
accounts and notify existing clients of the closing date for its
 HSBC (5)  InvestDirect Securities (India) Ltd. unit, HSBC said in an
e-mailed statement. It will still offer retail banking and
wealth management, commercial banking, investment banking and
capital markets, institutional broking, asset management and
insurance services in India.  “The closing down of the retail brokerage operations will
help HSBC to free up capital which will be deployed in other
growing businesses,”  Gareth Hewett , a Hong Kong-based spokesman
for the company, said by phone. “The group’s strategy is to
invest in faster growing businesses including wealth management
and trade financing.”  The lender is retreating from some markets as Chief
Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  seeks to increase
profitability. HSBC completed the sale of its U.S. credit card
unit to Capital One Financial Corp. in May 2012 and sold in
February its stake in China’s Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.  Hewett said 300 employees would be affected by the closure,
without specifying how many job cuts there would be. He declined
to give a time frame for winding down the operations and on the
revenue from brokerage operations in India.  HSBC paid $296 million in 2008 for control of brokerage
IL&FS Investsmart Ltd., which it renamed HSBC InvestDirect India
Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  