-- SEC to Issue Crowdfunding Proposal Easing Investor Verification
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/sec-to-release-crowdfunding-rule-easing-investor-verification.html
Small businesses raising money by
selling shares over the Internet wouldn’t have to verify that
their backers comply with individual investment limits under a
U.S. regulatory proposal set for a vote as soon as next week.  The plan, targeted for an Oct. 23 vote by the Securities
and Exchange Commission, would allow such companies to use so-called equity crowdfunding without having to check that a
person’s investment is a greater share of their income or net
worth than allowed by law, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the matter who asked not to be named because the
proposal hasn’t been made public.  The crowdfunding rule, authorized as part of the 2012
Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, is intended to benefit
small businesses and startups too small to attract funding from
banks or venture capitalists. It may also boost business for
Internet funding portals such as Kickstarter Inc., IndieGoGo
Inc., and CircleUp Network Inc. that are used by startups to
raise money.  “Some of the verification requirements would effectively
negate what Congress had in mind,” Harvey L. Pitt, a former SEC
chairman and now chief executive officer of Kalorama Partners
LLC, said in an interview. “It has to be done in a way that
lets people raise money.”  Crowdfunding was a popular provision in the JOBS Act, with
advocates saying it would unlock capital for small businesses
and entrepreneurs. In implementing the law, the SEC has been
trying to balance the need to protect ordinary investors from
potential fraud with Congress’s goal of reducing regulations for
small businesses.  Broker Commissions  The SEC should require income verification to help guard
against instances of brokers, who earn commissions based on the
size of an investment, overselling to retail investors, said
 Lynn Turner , a former SEC chief accountant. Compliance checks
are especially important in crowdfunding because the companies
using it are unproven and risky, Turner said.  “What we are talking about are companies that in all
likelihood are not going to be winners, and they are being
invested in by people who clearly don’t have the expertise and
financial smarts of venture capitalists,” Turner said in a
phone interview. “So you put those together and you are
creating a real opportunity for scams and fraud and significant
losses.”  Verification Impractical  The SEC’s proposal, overdue by nine months, will become the
second regulatory item from the JOBS Act advanced under Chairman
Mary Jo White. Although the law imposes limits on investors
based on the person’s income or net worth, the people said the
SEC’s proposal won’t require companies or brokers to verify
compliance with the limit, something Internet funders have
argued is impractical.  Under the law, businesses using crowdfunding could raise no
more than $5,000 a year from someone whose net worth is less
than $100,000. Investors with a net worth greater than $100,000
could contribute as much as 10 percent of their annual income or
net worth, up to a maximum of $100,000 in one year.  A person investing in a project through a crowdfunding
portal will have to disclose their income or net worth, said
Sherwood Neiss, principal at consultant Crowdfund Capital
Advisors. The systems will block an investment that exceeds the
income and wealth thresholds, he said.  “It is virtually impossible to do income verification for
an individual, and that is why we have to rely on self-disclosure,” Neiss said in a phone interview. “The SEC gets
it, they understand we are moving to this collaborative culture
where we use technology to enable capital formation. And now we
are going to use technology to keep people within the bumpers we
have out there.”  Pebble Smartwatch  Crowdfunding platforms raised $2.7 billion in 2012 and
funded more than 1 million projects, according to research firm
 Massolution . Crowdfunding has financed technology projects such
as the Pebble smartwatch, which raised more than $10 million on
Kickstarter to develop a watch that works with an iPhone or
Android-powered device.  Equity crowdfunding, which is practiced legally in the U.K.
and  Australia , accounts for less than 5 percent of the market,
according to Ethan Mollick, a professor of management at the
 University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School of Business. Less
than 1 percent of the money pledged through Kickstarter has gone
to projects that may be fraudulent, according to Mollick, whose
research has focused on the practice.  ‘Stops Fraud’  “What stops fraud is having a lot of eyeballs that look at
a project,” Mollick said in a phone interview. “One thing I
have advised both Kickstarter and lawmakers and policy makers to
think about is you want what happens in crowdfunding to be as
public as possible.”  To date, U.S. small businesses and nonprofits using
Internet portals have offered perks or products in exchange for
capital but so far haven’t been able to offer financial returns
on equity.  Congress responded to such worries by putting restrictions
on crowdfunding, including a $1 million limit on how much a
company can raise in a year. Even small companies that use
equity crowdfunding will have to, depending on their size,
disclose their income-tax returns or financial statements and
annual operating results.  “The commission is going to have to focus on enabling
folks to raise funding easily and seamlessly, but at the same
time the commission’s main preoccupation is investor
protection,” Pitt said. “What they are worried about is trying
to prevent swindle artists from getting their hands on public
funding.”  Public Comment  If approved by the commission’s five members, the proposal
will be open to public comment before the commission votes on a
final version. Once the SEC proposal is issued, the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority will propose detailed rules for
funding portals that aren’t registered as brokerages.  The law “is very prescriptive about how crowdfunding needs
to happen,” Thomas J. Kim, a former chief counsel in the SEC
division writing the rule, said at an April conference sponsored
by the Council of Institutional Investors. “It is not going to
be as easy as going on the Internet to raise capital. It is
going to be done in a highly regulated way.”  White took charge at the SEC in April saying she would push
the agency to finish rules required under the JOBS Act. In July,
the SEC finished the first rule authorized by the law, one that
allows  hedge funds , startups and other businesses to use
advertising to raise money outside of a public offering.  Ending the ban on advertising opened the door to a more
limited version of crowdfunding, allowing companies to pitch
shares to accredited investors, or those considered wealthy
enough to understand the risks of investing and withstand a
loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  