-- Senate Passes Accord to End Shutdown as House Set to Act
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n ,   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-10-17T01:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/senate-passes-accord-to-end-shutdown-as-house-set-to-act.html
The Senate voted 81-18 to halt the
16-day government shutdown and raise the U.S.  debt limit , moving
one step closer to ending the nation’s fiscal impasse.  The House of Representatives began debate at 9:24 p.m. and
plans to vote later tonight. The Senate acted the day before
U.S. borrowing authority was scheduled to lapse as Congress
engaged in its fourth round of fiscal brinkmanship in less than
three years.  “Once this agreement arrives on my desk, I will sign it
immediately,” President  Barack Obama  said tonight at the White
House. “We’ll begin reopening our government immediately and we
can begin to lift this cloud of uncertainty from our businesses
and from the American people.”  The agreement would put federal workers back on the job,
prevent a potential default on U.S. debt and make no major
policy changes sought by Republicans. Lawmakers didn’t resolve
any of their long-term divides on fiscal policy and will have to
return to the same issues over the next four months.  The deal concludes a four-week fiscal standoff that began
with Republicans demanding defunding of Obama’s 2010 health-care
law and objecting to raising the debt limit and financing the
government without attaching policy conditions. They achieved
almost none of those goals in the agreement.  ‘Didn’t Win’  “We fought the good fight,” House Speaker John Boehner, a
Republican, said today on Cincinnati’s WLW, a radio station in
his home state of  Ohio . “We just didn’t win.”  The framework negotiated by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell would fund the
government at Republican-backed spending levels through Jan. 15,
2014, and suspend the debt limit through Feb. 7, setting up
another round of confrontations then.  All of the votes against the proposal in the Senate were
from Republicans. One senator, Republican James Inhofe of
 Oklahoma , was absent.  The Senate accord was unveiled a day after Fitch Ratings
put the U.S. AAA credit grade on ratings watch negative, citing
the government’s inability to raise the debt ceiling in a timely
manner, according to a statement after markets in New York
closed yesterday.  Stocks Rallied  U.S. stocks rallied, sending the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  toward a record. The benchmark index rose 1.4 percent to
1,721.47 at 4 p.m. in New York after sliding 0.7 percent
yesterday. S&P 500 Index futures added 0.1 percent after the
gauge closed within 0.3 percent of a record in New York.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.7 percent, heading
for the highest close in five months. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar
Index, which tracks the greenback against 10 major peers, was
little changed. The yield on 10-year Treasuries dropped one
basis point to 2.66 percent following yesterday’s six basis-point decline.  The partial shutdown has closed national parks, slowed
clinical drug trials and led to the furlough of thousands of
federal workers. The Senate proposal would provide back pay for
furloughed workers.  The shutdown took at least $24 billion out of the U.S.
economy, S&P said in a report today.  “Millions suffered,” said Senator Charles Schumer, a New
York Democrat. “Millions didn’t get paychecks. The economy was
dragged down and confidence and faith in United States credit
and in the United States around the world was shaken.”  Business Groups  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the country’s largest
business group, supports the agreement, as does the Business
Roundtable, an association of large-company chief executives.
Several small-government groups, including the Club for Growth
and Heritage Action for America, are urging lawmakers to vote
against the accord.  House Republicans met for about 30 minutes today, and
Boehner didn’t speak to reporters as he left the session. The
speaker received a standing ovation at the meeting, said
Representative Lynn Westmoreland, a Georgia Republican.  “Everybody appreciates what the speaker has done up till
now and the whole leadership stuck together,” Westmoreland
said.  Under the Senate agreement, House Republicans achieved
almost none of their priorities.  “This is pain inflicted on our nation for no good
reason,” Reid said after the vote. “We cannot make the same
mistake again.”  Health Law  Republicans persisted after the partial government shutdown
started Oct. 1 and their approval ratings dropped in polls.
Hardliners resisted plans that didn’t make major changes to the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.  Obama described those requests for health-law changes as
unacceptable ransom demands and insisted that Republicans
relent.  Senator Kelly Ayotte, a New Hampshire Republican,
questioned some other Republicans’ approach to the health law.  “If they’re saying the defunding issue is going to come up
again in three months, then they’ve learned nothing from this,”
she said. “I hope we learned that we shouldn’t get behind a
strategy that cannot succeed.”  Senator Ted Cruz, a Texas Republican who spoke against the
health law for 21 hours last month, said on the Senate floor
before the vote tonight that the deal “embodies everything that
frustrates the American people about Washington.”  Representative Dave Camp, chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee, said Republicans will turn to oversight of the
implementation of the health care law.  Republican Opposition  Some House Republicans said they wouldn’t vote for the
Senate agreement.  “You will definitely see a split vote tonight,” said
Thomas Massie, a  Kentucky  Republican. “I have one vote: I am
going to vote no.”  The Senate agreement trades the pressing and already-missed
deadlines for new ones over the next four months. The Treasury
Department would be allowed to use so-called extraordinary
measures to delay default for three to four weeks beyond Feb. 7,
said a Senate Democratic aide who spoke on condition of
anonymity to discuss the plan.  “It would appear as though we’re kicking the can down the
road one more time,” Representative Jim Bridenstine, an
Oklahoma Republican, said in an interview. “It’s a problem.
Neither side is negotiating so we kicked the can and now we’re
going to have to deal with it.”  The Senate and House will also begun budget negotiations
with a Dec. 13 deadline.  Dam Project  The bill authorizes more than $1 billion for a dam project
on the Illinois-Kentucky border. Don Stewart, a spokesman for
McConnell, said in an e-mail that appropriators, not the
minority leader from Kentucky, requested the project.  Reid said the provision would save the government money.  The measure includes as much as $450 million for repairs to
wildfire damage in  Colorado . It also would freeze the pay of
members of Congress.  A Republican-backed provision in the agreement requires the
Health and Human Services Secretary, Kathleen Sebelius, to
certify that the government is able to verify the incomes of
people who apply for government subsidies to help pay their
insurance premiums under the Affordable Care Act.  Sebelius would have to submit a report by Jan. 1, 2014, on
the income verification process. The inspector general for
Sebelius’s department would have to issue a report on the
effectiveness of the process by July 1, 2014.  “I think it would be a great American tragedy if we had
the same thing happen in three or four months,” said Senator
Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat. “I don’t think a lot
of people understand what’s happened to the average person in
all of this.”  The bill is HR 2775.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  