-- Siemens CEO Kaeser Unravels Loescher Structure in Revamp
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-10-18T08:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/siemens-ceo-kaeser-unravels-loescher-structure-with-sales-revamp.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  Chief Executive Officer
Joe Kaeser is dismantling a sales structure set up under his
predecessor  Peter Loescher  to enable  Europe ’s largest
engineering company to react more quickly to market demands.  Sales functions will be returned to country managers from
so-called clusters that pooled distribution across several
nations, Kaeser yesterday told 600 top managers in Berlin,
according to a statement by Siemens.  “Eliminating the clusters will make Siemens more
streamlined and closer to the markets,” the CEO said. “We’re
substantially strengthening our regions, whose heads are our
customers’ most important contacts.”  The main challenge for Kaeser, who took over in August, is
to close the profitability gap with competitors  General Electric
Co. (GE)  and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  In Loescher’s six-year tenure, margins lagged
behind and the stock fell 22 percent as the Munich-based company
had to cut profit targets five times. Since the Austrian’s
departure as CEO was announced, the shares have gained 12
percent.  Country managers for the biggest markets will report
directly to the leaders of Siemens’s four sectors, according to
Kaeser. Energy head Michael Suess will take responsibility for
 North America  and the Middle East while healthcare unit CEO
Hermann Requardt will oversee  South America  and  Japan . Industry
division chief Siegfried Russwurm will be responsible for
Europe, Africa, and the former Soviet bloc. Infrastructure and
cities CEO Roland Busch will oversee  Asia , excluding Japan, and
 Australia .  Structural Revamp  The  shares  gained as much as 0.8 percent, or 0.59 euros,
today in  Frankfurt , and traded 0.7 percent higher at 89.75 euros
as of 9:06 a.m. The stock has risen 13 percent this year,
valuing Siemens at 79 billion euros ($108 billion).  Siemens may also disband the least profitable of the four
segments, infrastructure and cities, as soon as next October as
Kaeser plots a new management structure, Manager Magazin
reported earlier, citing an unidentified person. The company
declined to comment on the report.  The cluster sales structure was set up by Loescher in 2008,
with the sharing of functions intended to reduce costs.  Kaeser’s Role  In addition to his current remit, Kaeser will take on
responsibility for mergers and acquisitions as well as
governance and capital markets themes, Siemens said yesterday.
Project and quality management topics will be handled by Chief
Technology Officer Klaus Helmrich as the company seeks to avoid
the project charges which burdened earnings in recent years.
Helmrich has already taken over personnel management from the
departed Brigitte Ederer.  Kaeser is also widening job cuts. Siemens will eliminate
15,000 posts, representing 4 percent of its 370,000 workers
worldwide, and a third of the reduction will come in the German
home market, the company said last month. Siemens had first
projected some 8,000 job cuts globally, a person familiar with
the program told Bloomberg in October 2012.  The company has 60 sub-units that make products including
trains, gas turbines, medical scanners and factory-automation
gear. The manufacturer raised its forecast in July for charges
associated with the Siemens 2014 efficiency program to 1 billion
euros for this fiscal year from an earlier prediction of 900
million euros. The costs may increase by a further 100 million
euros, Kaeser told analysts at the time.  Profit Margin  Siemens had a profit  margin  of 9.5 percent in fiscal 2012,
while ABB and General Electric had margins of 10.3 percent and
15 percent, respectively. The German company’s reorganization
costs in the third quarter ended June 30 totaled 436 million
euros, with the infrastructure and cities business accounting
for 41 percent of that amount and the industry unit for 32
percent.  In August, Siemens’s debt was downgraded by  Fitch Ratings ,
which cited an accelerating decline in the manufacturer’s
margins in the most recent quarter and “insufficient progress”
on restructuring measures. The appointment of Kaeser as CEO is a
“positive development,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  