-- TSMC Climbs After Saying Inventories Will Decline: Taipei Mover
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-10-18T08:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/tsmc-sees-sales-drop-amid-smartphone-weakness-as-earnings-slow.html
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. (2330) , the world’s largest contract maker of chips, advanced to
its highest in three months in Taipei after forecasting a
decline in inventories would offset a slowdown in revenue.  The chipmaker rose 2.8 percent to NT$110 at the close in
Taipei, the highest since July 12. The benchmark Taiex index
advanced 0.8 percent.  Stockpiles will fall this quarter and approach normal
seasonal levels, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Morris Chang said yesterday. The Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company forecast
sales of its chips, which are used in handsets from BlackBerry
Ltd., Apple Inc. and  HTC Corp. (2498)  as well as Sony Corp. game
consoles, will decline about 10 percent in dollar terms from the
prior quarter, in line with analyst estimates.  “Inventory correction concerns have eased as management
said supply-chain inventories will return to the normal seasonal
level after the correction in 4Q13,” Michael Liu and William
Kuo, Taipei-based analysts at KGI Securities Co. in Taipei,
wrote in a report.  TSMC yesterday reported its slowest growth in net income
for six quarters after sales at the  maker  of chips for  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM)  and  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  missed expectations because clients
trimmed orders amid rising stockpiles.  ‘Softer Demand’  “This decline is mainly attributable to the softer demand
for certain high-end smartphones and the inventory correction,”
Chang said at an investors’ conference in Taipei. “We believe
the decline is short-term.”  Sales in the fourth quarter will be between NT$144 billion
($4.9 billion) and NT$147 billion, Chief Financial Officer Lora Ho said yesterday, compared with the NT$146.7 billion average of
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Full-year capital expenditure will be about $9.7 billion
this year and about $10 billion next year, Chang said. Full-year
revenue this year will climb 17 to 18 percent, with growth next
year of at least 10 percent while less than for 2013, he said.  Chang, 82, said he will appoint one new chief executive
officer, or two co-CEOs, before June next year, ending his
current term as CEO which began in 2009.  “There’s no such thing as non-executive chairman in
 Taiwan ,” Chang said. “I wasn’t hands-on between 2005 and 2009,
now I am telling you I will be hands-on.”  Chang has remained chairman since he founded the company in
1987 and said yesterday the logical candidates to take over as
CEO are two of the current chief operating officers. Mark Liu,
C.C. Wei and Chiang Shang-yi are COOs at  TSMC . Chiang will
retire this year, the company announced last month.  “Management’s clarification of the CEO successor plan
should ease some concerns about the uncertainty of a management
reshuffle,” Deutsche Bank AG Taipei-based analysts Michael Chou
and Kevin Wang wrote in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 