-- SouFun Drives Property Jump Before Data: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-10-17T18:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/soufun-drives-property-jump-before-data-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities rose in New York
for a second day, led by real estate website  SouFun Holdings
Ltd. (SFUN) , on prospects economic data will signal a recovery in the
world’s second-largest economy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. advanced 0.3 percent to 104.85 at
2:16 p.m. SouFun,  China ’s biggest real estate information site,
jumped 9.2 percent to the highest since its 2010 debut, and
developer  Xinyuan Real Estate Co. (XIN)  climbed to a four-year high.
 E-House (EJ)  China Holdings Ltd. gained the most in four weeks, while
 Pactera Technology International Ltd. (PACT)  soared to a seven-month
high after agreeing to a buyout led by Blackstone Group LP.  China may report today that economic expansion rebounded to
7.8 percent for the last three months, according to the median
forecast of 48 economists compiled by Bloomberg, after the pace
slowed in the two previous quarters. Property transaction
volumes rose 17 percent in the first week of October in 32 major
cities monitored by SouFun, it said in a statement Oct. 9. The
Chinese Communist Party will meet next month to discuss
deepening reforms, Xinhua News Agency said in August.  “The consensus is that growth in the third quarter should
be higher than the second quarter, basically reflecting the
rebound over the summer of the Chinese economy, and should ease
concern about lending in China,” Wang Qinwei, an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said by phone yesterday. “In
the coming plenary session of the party congress meeting, maybe
we can see some kind of reform measures regarding rural land.”  ETF Slips  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slipped 0.6 percent to $37.97
in New York, falling a second time this week. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange China ETF Volatility Index, measuring
predictions of price fluctuations in the ETF, declined to a
three-week low. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3
percent after President  Barack Obama  signed a bill to fund the
government through Jan. 15 and extend the borrowing authority
through Feb. 7.  Non-financial foreign direct investment in China rose 4.9
percent in September from a year earlier to $8.8 billion, the
Ministry of Commerce said yesterday, compared with a 0.6 percent
gain in the prior month.  SouFun’s ADRs jumped to $57.20, the highest level since its
U.S. listing in September 2010. Trading volume was twice the 90-day average compiled by Bloomberg.  E-House, a Shanghai-based property brokerage, surged 6.5
percent to $9.67, poised for the highest level in three weeks.
Beijing-based Xinyuan advanced 5.4 percent to $7.22, set for the
highest close since June 2009.  Mobile Devices  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , China’s biggest online search engine, gained
for the first time this week, rising 2.9 percent to $154.50.
Citigroup Inc. lifted a price target on Baidu stock to $175 from
$167 and maintained a buy recommendation, citing revenue growth
from its services on mobile devices.  NQ Mobile Inc., a mobile-security service provider, soared
8 percent to $23.40, poised for the biggest gain in a month. The
Beijing-based company was rated the equivalent of buy in an
initial coverage at Macquarie Group Ltd. yesterday.  Pactera, which provides technology outsourcing services,
surged 7.9 percent to $7.06 in New York, poised for the highest
price in seven months.  The Dalian, China-based company said it agreed to be
acquired by a Blackstone-led buyout group for $7.3 per ADR, a 39
percent premium over the price offered on May 17.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index dropped 0.6 percent
to 10,568.71 yesterday, while the Shanghai Composite Index
slipped 0.2 percent to 2,188.54 in a third day of declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  