-- StanChart Private Bank Assets Stagnate in Asian Wealth Hunt
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-10-17T05:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/stanchart-s-private-bank-assets-stagnate-in-wealthier-asian-hunt.html
Standard Chartered Plc (2888) ’s Asian
private-bank asset growth has stagnated this year as the lender
focused on wealthier clients and investment returns were
curtailed by volatility in regional financial markets.  Assets managed in Asia excluding the Indian sub-continent
and the Middle East have stayed at about $35 billion, the same
as at the end of 2012, said Rajesh Malkani, the private bank’s
head of Northeast and Southeast Asia. Globally, Standard
Chartered started increasing from late last year the investment
threshold for private-bank clients to $2 million, double the
previous level, he said.  “What we don’t want to end up doing is creating a lower-end private bank,” Malkani said in an interview in Singapore
last week. “As clients become more informed, you have to keep
raising your own bar.”  A  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  and  Royal Bank of Canada  report last month
signaled wealth of Asian millionaires may top North America as
soon as next year. Asian  stocks  outside  Japan  slumped earlier
this year, while currencies have tumbled amid an economic
slowdown in  China  and  India  and growing concern the U.S. Federal
Reserve will curb its stimulus program.  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index excluding Japan  is up 2.5
percent this year, compared with a more than 17 percent gain for
the MSCI World Index. The Asian gauge slumped 12 percent in 2013
to its June low, driving 10-day volatility to the highest level
since December 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  India’s rupee and  Indonesia ’s rupiah slumped more than 10
percent against the dollar this year, making them the third- and
fourth-worst performing emerging-market currencies, the data
show.  Relationship Managers  Standard Chartered, which got more than 70 percent of its
2012  pretax profit  from the Asia-Pacific region, re-entered
private banking in 2006, after selling out to Swiss Bank Corp.
in 1996.  The $860 million acquisition of  American Express Co. (AXP) ’s
banking unit in March 2008 gave Standard Chartered about $22.5
billion of assets under management and 120 relationship
managers. Today, it manages $50 billion globally and has 450
relationship managers, almost 240 of whom are based in Singapore
and Hong Kong, Malkani said.  Standard Chartered’s private bank has “continued to grow
at a very decent clip” if clients with less than $2 million
were not excluded from the calculation and the market losses
ignored, he said.  Productive Assets  Its $35 billion of assets ranked it as the Asia-Pacific
region’s 12th-largest private bank in 2012, according to a study
by Private Banker International released last week.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
Switzerland’s largest lender, was the region’s biggest with $215
billion, while Citigroup Inc. was second with $210 billion,
according to Private Banker.  “We need to look at how productive” a private bank’s
assets under management are in terms of revenue and profits,
said Malkani. “AUM for the sake of AUM means nothing.”  Standard Chartered’s private bank runs at a cost-to-income
ratio “at the lower end of the industry range,” said Malkani,
without disclosing numbers.  Global private banks had an average cost-to-income ratio of
0.69 in 2012, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in a June report.
The average for Asia was 0.83, according to a September report
from the consultant.  Asians with at least $1 million in investable assets are
expected to see their riches climb to $15.9 trillion by 2015
from $12 trillion last year, according to Cap Gemini and  Royal
Bank of Canada ’s 2013 Asia-Pacific Wealth Report released Sept.
25. North American high net-worth individuals held $12.7
trillion in 2012, the report showed.  Manager Overload  Standard Chartered is focusing on a more wealthy tier of
clients to generate higher fees and cover the rising cost of
offering more “in-depth service” to increasingly knowledgeable
wealthy individuals, Malkani said. Currently, the optimal number
of clients per relationship manager should be 30, down from 50 a
few years ago, he said, which would add to costs.  “Ultimately, a relationship manager loaded with too many
clients is not going to be able to provide the right level of
service and advice,” said Malkani.  The lender’s clients with investments of $100,000 to $2
million are serviced by its priority banking division, and those
with $25,000 to $100,000 are serviced by the preferred banking
unit, Malkani said.  Instead of moving down to the priority division, some
existing clients “have topped up” to stay with the private
bank, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in  Singapore  at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  