-- Stitch Fix Nabs $12 Million From Benchmark to Customize Commerce
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-10-17T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/stitch-fix-nabs-12-million-from-benchmark-to-customize-commerce.html
Kacia Hosmer, a 28-year-old mom in
Pittsburgh, hates shopping in crowded malls. So when it comes to
buying clothes, she uses  Stitch Fix Inc. , an online mail-order
service that lets her receive curated packages based on style
preferences.  Venture-capital firm Benchmark is betting the country is
filled with people like Hosmer. The investor, which made its
name backing  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  in the 1990s, led a $12 million
investment in Stitch Fix today to help the San Francisco-based
company staff up and meet growing demand.  Stitch Fix is elbowing its way into a market known as
subscription commerce, which has proved challenging for many
predecessors as copycats have pushed down prices, making it hard
to keep customers. That led womens’ e-retailer ShoeDazzle.com
Inc. to sell itself to rival JustFab Inc. and forced BeachMint
Inc. into a management overhaul. And then there’s the perpetual
threat of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which dominates e-commerce.  Stitch Fix, founded in 2011, is taking an algorithmic
approach to shopping, seeking to learn so much about its users
that it can predict the fit and style of clothing a person will
like. Customers get a package of items, pay for what they keep
and are asked to send the rest back within three days in a bag
with pre-paid postage. Hosmer has been spending around $100 a
month for the past year.  “I don’t have to go to a store, bring it home to try it
all on and potentially have to bring it back,” said Hosmer, who
works part time as a blogger. “And I don’t have to do it with a
two-year-old in tow.”  Personalized Shipments  The company asks users a series of questions elaborating on
body shape and style -- preppy or classic, for example -- and
then sends a box of five pieces of clothing curated specifically
to those tastes. Customers can opt to have boxes sent monthly or
can just choose to get shipments when they need to refresh their
wardrobe.  While Stitch Fix is going after women, Chicago-based  Trunk
Club Inc.  is providing a similar service for men. The startup
offers products from more than 50 high-end brands, including Ben
Sherman and Jack Spade, and consumers spend on average $500 per
trunk, said Chief Executive Officer Brian Spaly. Trunk Club has
100 full-time stylists communicating directly with clients.  Both companies are still early in their development. Trunk
Club, founded in 2009, is forecasting revenue this year of $40
million to $50 million, up from $10 million last year, Spaly
said in July. Stitch Fix said sales in 2012 were in the single-digit millions and expects 10-fold growth this year. The company
said the fresh capital is being used to serve more customers and
to bolster its fulfillment operation.  Shipping Costs  Stich Fix, Trunk Club and other e-commerce startups are
strapped with high shipping costs, another challenge in taking
on Amazon, which offers tiered pricing, including free shipping
on anything over $25.  To mitigate postage costs, Stitch Fix charges $20 for
customers who choose not to buy anything. The company is aiming 
for users to keep two items per package at $65 each this year, 
said Katrina Lake, Stitch Fix’s CEO.  Another way Stitch Fix keeps costs down is by having users
send an e-mail telling the company what they’re sending back, so
the system knows which items it can plan to redirect to other
customers.  “It protects us against markdown risk and having to hold
too much inventory,” Lake said.  Trunk Club’s Spaly says the subscription-commerce model can
work if the process is habitual and enjoyable. By improving
every shipment based on what a customer likes and doesn’t like
from previous packages, Spaly is letting data drive the
business.  “That’s really different than having a fickle customer
base that can just as easily turn off the switch,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  