-- Sun Life’s Mecca Pilgrims Drive Growth: Corporate Canada
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-10-18T20:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/sun-life-s-mecca-pilgrims-drive-growth-corporate-canada.html
Dyah Apsari, a 55-year-old
Indonesian woman in Saudi Arabia this month for Hajj, is the
kind of customer  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  is betting on for the
insurer’s expansion in  Asia .  Hajj, the religious pilgrimage required of all Muslims,
cost Apsari about $8,000, half of what she and her husband earn
in a year. Sun Life, the only North American life insurer in
Indonesia to offer an Islamic-compliant savings and insurance
plan for the trip, is targeting the nation’s Muslim  population 
of 216 million, the highest in the world.  “It’s the top 80 million today that can afford the kind of
products we offer but the true Shariah market is the next 80
million -- the middle  to lower-middle income classes,” Bert Paterson, president of Sun Life’s Indonesia unit, said Sept. 23
at the company’s headquarters in Toronto. “How do you reach
that part of the population? You need to build distribution, you
need to have products that appeal to that type of customer.”  Sun Life has operated in  Indonesia  since 1995, and Asia
accounted for about  8.8 percent  of revenue last year. Canada’s
third-largest insurer is hiring employees in the region’s
fastest growing countries, targeting 7,000 staff in Indonesia by
the end of 2013 from at least 6,000 last quarter. Asia revenue
may jump to 12 percent by 2015, Bank of Montreal said.  Apsari purchased Sun Life’s product, offered in partnership
with travel agent PT Pantravel, in August before she left for
Mecca. The deal includes travel insurance, a death benefit and
bookings for hotels and flights. Her son and daughter receive
help saving for their eventual pilgrimages in a country where
the  per-capita  gross domestic product is $5,100.  ‘Huge Price’  “I need my children to also go on Hajj, but it’s a huge
price,” Apsari said this month in a phone interview from her
home in Jakarta. “This product was something really different.
It helps me financially.”  Apsari, who works in the private  transportation industry ,
had never been a Sun Life customer before the visit from a
company salesman.  “We have exclusivity with Pantravel and we’re currently
keen to expand that,” Paterson said. “We’re happy to work with
anybody who can help us distribute the products to the customers
we’re targeting and we’re continually talking to potential
partners.”  Indonesia’s population is 85 percent Muslim and its middle
class will double in the next seven years to about 141 million,
according to a  report  by  Boston Consulting Group . The global
market for takaful, or Shariah-compliant insurance, will  reach 
$25 billion in the next two years, according to Ernst & Young
LLP’s Ashar Nazim.  Insurance Premiums  Customers in emerging Asian countries including Indonesia
paid the  second-lowest  amount in insurance premiums per-capita
last year, behind  Africa , according to data by Swiss Re Ltd. The
Asian region’s 6.5 percent premium growth in 2012 beat the
global figure of 2.3 percent.  Shariah-compliant insurance, a 1,400-year-old market, is
based on the Koranic principle of mutual assistance. Policy
holders contribute money to a pool managed by the company, which
is then used to pay for claims. Any surplus is returned to
customers.  Hajj, the largest gathering of people in the world, ends
today.  Saudi Arabia  caps the number of pilgrims who can enter
each year after people have been trampled to death, including a
decade ago when 14 people were killed. This year, the government
warned 2 million pilgrims about the risk of coronavirus, a
respiratory illness.  Waiting List  Indonesia’s cap this year was 220,000 and about 1.8 million
Indonesians are registered on a waiting list, according to Sun
Life. Apsari waited 12 years for her turn and her children will
wait 10 to 15 years.  Sun Life’s Asia unit, which includes  Hong Kong  and the
 Philippines , represents the strongest economic-growth region,
according to Tom MacKinnon, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets.
The unit’s compound annual growth rate of 20 percent between
2011 and 2015 will be higher than for the U.S. and  Canada 
businesses, he said in an Oct. 16 note to clients.  Sun Life reported second-quarter life and health insurance
sales that climbed 32 percent to C$496 million ($482 million)
from a year earlier, led by a 38 percent expansion in individual
life sales in Asia. The company doesn’t break out regional
results within Asia.  Sun Life stock has  gained  30 percent this year, beating the
12 percent return of the 46-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Financials Index. The shares rose 0.6 percent to C$34.23 at the
close in Toronto today.  Seeking Expansion  Takaful products make Indonesia an attractive investment as
Canadian insurers seek expansion abroad, said Victor
Kuntzevitsky, an associate at Northland Wealth Management, which
manages C$225 million including Sun Life shares.  “I see Asia becoming a larger revenue source for Sun Life,
more so  Malaysia  and Indonesia and less  Japan ,” Kuntzevitsky
said in a phone interview from Toronto. The company should seek
to boost Asia to 30 percent of revenue in the next 10 years to
take full advantage of the region’s improving demographics,
Kuntzevitsky said.  Insurers providing Islamic coverage face competition from
established rivals, a limited number of takaful reinsurers to
mitigate risk and a lack of avenues for investing client assets,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a Sept. 25 note.  “The expansion of takaful insurance into large commercial
contracts remains challenging,” Moody’s said.  Still, Paterson said he’s excited by the prospects for
growth in the region.  “There’s no doubt in my mind that Indonesia will have the
largest  Islamic finance  market in  Southeast Asia  in the next 10
to 15 years,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  