-- Syngenta Says Profit Goal at Risk From Writedown, Currency
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-10-17T07:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/syngenta-says-profit-goal-at-risk-from-writedown-currency-1-.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s largest
maker of crop chemicals, said its outlook for profit this year
is under threat after writing down the value of seed inventories
and incurring currency expenses.  Depending on demand in  Latin America , adjusted earnings per
share may be “close to last year’s underlying level,” the
Basel, Switzerland-based company said in a statement today.
Earlier in the year, the company predicted earnings per share
would “substantially improve.”  Fourth-quarter performance “is all going to come down” to
demand in  key  agricultural markets in Latin America, Mack said
in an interview. The company is waiting for Brazil approval of
soy fungicide Solatenol which could eventually bring annual
sales of more than $850 million, he said. Syngenta reiterated
its sales outlook after a companywide reorganization along crop
lines and purchases of new technologies.  “There was a question about whether or not we would be
able to get a full 8 percent sales growth in 2013 - it looks
like we are set to do that,” Mack said in an interview. “We
feel good coming in to the fourth quarter.”  Shares of Syngenta  dropped  2.6 percent to 345.1 francs as
of 9:09 a.m. in Zurich.  While sales earlier in the year were affected by cold
weather in  Germany  and the U.S., quarterly revenue matched
analysts’ estimates, rising 8 percent to $2.9 billion.  In Latin America sales at constant exchange rates grew 17
percent driven by soybean orders from Brazilian farmers who are
benefiting from the real’s depreciation which helps exports.  The writedown on corn seeds may be about 1 percent of full-year sales, Chief Financial Officer John Ramsay said in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  