-- U.K. Stocks Close Little Changed as FTSE 100 Erases Drop
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-10-17T16:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/u-k-stocks-fall-snapping-longest-rally-in-five-months.html
U.K. stocks  erased losses in the
last half hour of trading, leaving the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  little
changed, as a rally in  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and
 SABMiller Plc (SAB)  offset Dagong Global Credit Rating Co.’s downgrade
of U.S. sovereign debt.  BSkyB climbed to its highest price since March 2001 after
quarterly revenue topped estimates. SABMiller rose 4.2 percent
after saying quarterly beer sales returned to growth.  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  led banks lower as Exane BNP Paribas
said a need for further capital will delay dividend payments at
British lenders.  The FTSE 100 Index added 4.57 points, less than 0.1
percent, to 6,576.16 in  London . The gauge advanced 3.7 percent
in the past five days as investors speculated a last-minute deal
over borrowing and spending measures would prevent a U.S.
default. The broader FTSE All-Share Index and Ireland’s ISEQ
Index were also little changed today.  “Equities are going to start to refocus on fundamentals,”
Andrew Goldberg, a London-based global markets strategist at
JPMorgan Asset Management, which manages $1.5 trillion, said by
telephone. “Now that the debt limit is out of the way, the next
thing the market wants to see is earnings growth.”  Beijing-based Dagong downgraded the U.S. government’s local
and foreign-currency credit ratings to A- from A, maintaining a
negative outlook. Republicans and Democrats don’t have a
consistent strategy to solve America’s debt problem and the
political situation isn’t conducive for eliminating the risk of
default, Dagong said.  Default Risk  The government reopened after 16 days of partial shutdown
and called back workers sent on unpaid leave as President  Barack
Obama  signed into law a measure to extend the borrowing powers
into early 2014. Both chambers of Congress approved the plan
earlier. Without such a deal, the Treasury faced the risk of
defaulting on its obligations later this month.  A release today showed U.K. retail sales including fuel
rose 0.6 percent in September after falling 0.8 percent in the
previous month. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey had
called for an increase of 0.4 percent.  BSkyB climbed 7.1 percent to 940 pence. The U.K.’s largest
pay-TV provider reported first-quarter revenue that beat
estimates as the company signed more customers to its broadband
service and Sky+ HD boxes.  SABMiller rose 4.2 percent to 3,167 pence. The world’s
second-biggest brewer said the so-called organic lager volume
rose 3 percent in the second quarter, reversing a 1 percent
decline in the first quarter.  Fund Flows  Man Group Plc (EMG)  advanced 3.6 percent to 85.85 pence. The
world’s largest publicly traded hedge-fund manager posted its
first quarterly net inflows in two years as clients added money
to funds at its GLG Partners unit. Sales of Man Group’s funds
totaled $4.1 billion in the third quarter, exceeding $3.4
billion of redemptions.  A  measure of U.K. banks  dropped 1 percent. Barclays
declined 1.9 percent to 278.3 pence. HSBC slid 1.1 percent to
678 pence. British lenders may have to raise additional capital
of 100 billion pounds ($161 billion) if the Prudential
Regulation Authority adopts its proposals in full, Exane said in
a note.  Travis Perkins Plc (TPK)  lost 1.6 percent to 1,749 pence. The
builders’ merchant said its consumer division failed to grow on
a comparable basis in the third quarter, slipping from an 8.6
percent increase in the two months ended June.  Renishaw Plc (RSW)  tumbled 5.7 percent to 1,580 pence, its lowest
price since Aug. 7. The maker of precision tools said revenue
for the quarter ended in September fell to 79 million pounds
from 95.9 million pounds in the year-ago period.  Rank Group Plc (RNK)  fell 2.6 percent to 150 pence, falling for a
fifth day. The casino operator said it expects full-year
operating profit to be marginally below analysts’ projection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  