-- U.K. September Retail Sales Increase More Than Forecast
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-17T08:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/u-k-september-retail-sales-increase-more-than-forecast-1-.html
U.K. retail sales  rose more than
economists forecast in September as an increase in furniture
demand led a rebound from a slump the previous month.  Sales including fuel increased 0.6 percent from August,
when they declined 0.8 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in  London . The median forecast of 21
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.4 percent
gain. Household-goods sales surged 3 percent, while food-store
sales fell 0.2 percent.  Britain’s recovery is strengthening and unemployment is
falling, lifting  consumer confidence . While the  Bank of England 
has said it will keep its  benchmark interest rate  at a record
low until the economy is expanding at a sustainable pace, pay
growth continues to lag behind inflation, squeezing consumers.  From a year earlier, retail sales rose 2.2 percent in
September.  Excluding fuel , sales increased 0.7 percent from
August and were up 2.8 percent from the same month a year ago.  The pound stayed higher against the dollar after the data
were released and was trading at $1.6077 as of 9:32 a.m. London
time, up 0.8 percent from yesterday.  Clothes Sales  In the third quarter, total retail sales increased 1.5
percent compared with the previous three months, the ONS said.  Sales of clothing and shoes rose 1.2 percent in September
from August. The decline in food sales followed a 2.5 percent
slump in August.  While the annual price deflator on all retail sales fell to
0.9 percent in September from 1.6 percent the previous month,
the deflator on food sales remained at 3.4 percent, the highest
among all the sectors tracked by the statistics office.  Labor-market data yesterday highlighted the pressure on
 living standards  as  inflation  runs at 2.7 percent. Pay growth
slowed to 0.7 percent in the three months through August from
1.2 percent. Public-sector pay fell 0.5 percent, the first
decline since comparable records began in 2001.  The data also showed that jobless claims dropped by 41,700
in September, the most in 16 years. That followed a decline of
41,600 in August. The  unemployment rate  stayed at 7.7 percent.  “Although the intensity of the squeeze from inflation has
eased somewhat in recent months, nominal wage growth has
deteriorated leading to an acceleration in real earnings
falls,” said Blerina Uruci, an economist at Barclays Plc in
London. “Given the weakness in the labor market, with the
 unemployment rate  still high and productivity low, prospects for
earnings growth remain subdued in our view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  