-- U.K. Tibet Pledge Fostered China Deals, People’s Daily Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-17T14:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/u-k-pledge-on-tibet-fostered-china-deals-people-s-daily-says.html
A U.K. admission that it mishandled
the issue of  Tibet  paved the way for economic and financial
agreements this week, a People’s Daily commentary said.  The U.K. also pledged to respect  China ’s sovereignty,
reviving relations that had been at a low ebb during the past
year, the Communist Party’s official newspaper said in a
 commentary  by Zhong Sheng. The name is a homonym in Chinese for
“voice of China.” The British government said there’d been no
change of policy.  China and Britain agreed during a visit by U.K. Chancellor
of the Exchequer George Osborne to establish direct trading
between the  yuan  and the British pound, helping London in its
race with Frankfurt and Paris to become Europe’s hub for trade
in the Chinese currency. London financial institutions will be
allowed to invest as much as 80 billion yuan ($13 billion) in
Chinese domestic securities, Osborne said Oct. 15.  At a briefing after meeting Osborne that day, Vice Chinese
Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said the relationship “has seen a
turnaround” thanks to efforts from both sides.  “Without a sound foundation of political relations,
economic and trade relations cannot have a solid footing,” Zhu
said.  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron acknowledged in May that
his 2012 meeting with the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan spiritual
leader, had caused tension. China accuses the Nobel Peace Prize
winner of waging a campaign for independence, while he says he
is seeking autonomy for Tibet.  A spokesman for Cameron said today Britain has not changed
its stance on Tibet to seal the deals announced during Osborne’s
trip, which also include an agreement for Chinese companies to
buy stakes in British nuclear power plants.  “Our position on Tibet is long-standing and there’s been
no change,” Jean-Christophe Gray told reporters at a regular
briefing in  London . “We want strong commercial and diplomatic
ties with China, We want to continue to strengthen those, and
that’s at the heart of the visit to China that you’ve seen the
chancellor making this week.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nathaniel Espino in Beijing at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Tan in Beijing at 
 ztan39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Davis at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  