-- U.K. to Allow Chinese Companies to Invest in Nuclear Plants
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-10-17T08:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/u-k-will-allow-chinese-companies-to-invest-in-nuclear-plants.html
The U.K. will allow Chinese
companies to buy stakes in its nuclear power plants as Britain
seeks to boost investment in low-carbon electricity and stave
off the risk of blackouts.  Initial investments are likely to be minority stakes and
future stakes in new power stations could be majority holdings,
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said today at the
Taishan atomic plant in southern China, according to an e-mailed
statement from the Treasury. The two nations earlier signed an
accord in Beijing on civil nuclear collaboration.  “It is an important potential part of the government’s
plan for developing the next generation of nuclear power in
Britain,” Osborne said in the  statement . “It means the
potential of more investment and jobs in Britain, and lower
long-term energy costs for consumers.”  The U.K. is trying to spur 110 billion pounds ($177
billion) of spending on new power stations and grid
infrastructure through 2020 to replace older generators and
reduce carbon emissions. Fifteen of Britain’s 16 nuclear
reactors are due to close by 2023, and ministers on March 26 set
out an atomic strategy to kick-start the industry 18 years after
the last reactor was built.  The probability of power disruptions in the U.K. will
increase to about once in 12 years in 2015 from once in 47 years
due to closing power plants, the energy regulator Ofgem said in
June. The former government’s chief scientific adviser, David
King, said last year that Britain risks blackouts this decade if
it doesn’t hasten plans to build new nuclear plants.  Technology Cooperation  The agreement with  China  covers cooperation on investment,
technology, construction and expertise in the nuclear industry,
according to the statement.  It’s the second cooperation accord on nuclear power
announced by the U.K. in six weeks. On Sept. 5, the U.K.
Department of Energy and Climate Change said it signed a
memorandum of understanding to allow Rosatom,  Russia ’s state
atomic energy company, to invest in British projects. That
followed a pledge in March by Britain and  France  to work
together on research and development of nuclear technologies.  The government has been in talks for more than a year with
 Electricite de France SA (EDF)  to guarantee the price of power for a
new nuclear plant planned in southwestern  England  by the French
utility.  Areva SA (AREVA)  and China General Nuclear Power Corp. plan to
become shareholders in the EDF project, three people with
knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  