-- U.S. Mortgage Rates Rise as Congress Vote Ends Shutdown
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-10-17T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/u-s-mortgage-rates-rise-as-congress-vote-ends-shutdown.html
U.S.  mortgage rates  climbed for a
second week, increasing borrowing costs as Congress voted to end
the government shutdown.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage rose to 4.28
percent from 4.23 percent,  Freddie Mac  said in a statement
today. The average 15-year rate increased to 3.33 percent from
3.31 percent, according to the McLean, Virginia-based company.  The end of the fiscal impasse may give a boost to the
housing market. During the shutdown, waits lengthened for some
borrowers seeking mortgages backed by the  Federal Housing
Administration  and Department of Agriculture, and confidence
among U.S. homebuilders fell to a four-month low.  “An agreement is great,”  Paul Diggle , property economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in London, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “It’s good for consumer sentiment and the
willingness of Americans to make major purchases.”  President  Barack Obama  just after midnight signed the bill
to fund the government and lift the borrowing limit, according
to a White House statement. The measure puts federal workers
back on the job starting today and permits the U.S. to pay its
debts, benefits and salaries.  An increase in mortgage rates since May has slowed the
housing recovery. Builder confidence in October weakened in
three of the four U.S. regions, with companies in the Northeast,
which includes the Washington area, showing the greatest
deterioration, according to the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo index of homebuilder sentiment.  Loan applications for U.S. home  purchases  declined 4.8
percent last week to the lowest level this year, the  Mortgage
Bankers Association  reported yesterday.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan jumped to a two-year high of 4.58 percent in August from a near-record low of
3.35 percent in early May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  