-- U.S. October Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 5 3 2 4 5 9 ]   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e   [ ]
-- 2013-10-17T14:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/u-s-october-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Philadelphia area manufacturing activity from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Oct-13  Manufacturing growth in the region continued in October,
according to firms responding to this month’s Business Outlook
Survey. The survey’s broadest indicators for general activity,
new orders, shipments, and employment were positive, signifying
growth. The survey’s indicators of future activity suggest
continued optimism about growth over the next six months.  Indicators Suggest Continuing Expansion
The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the
diffusion index of current activity, edged down from 22.3 in
September to 19.8 this month.  The index has now been positive
for five consecutive months. The percentage of firms reporting
increased activity this month (36 percent) was greater than the
percentage reporting decreased activity (16 percent).  The demand for manufactured goods, as measured by the current
new orders index, increased 6 points, to 27.5, its highest
reading since March 2011.  Shipments continued to expand: The
index fell 1 point to 20.4, following a 22 point increase last
month.  The diffusion indexes for inventories, delivery times,
and unfilled orders were all positive and higher than last
month.  Labor market indicators showed improvement this month. The
current employment index increased 5 points, to 15.4, its
highest reading since May 2011.  The percentage of firms
reporting increases in employment (23 percent) exceeded the
percentage reporting decreases (8 percent).  Price Indexes Suggest Moderate Pressures
The indexes for prices reflected moderate price pressures this
month.  Input price pressures were slightly less widespread this
month: The prices paid index fell 4 points, to 21.7. With
respect to prices received for manufactured goods, 21 percent of
firms reported higher prices, and 7 percent reported lower
prices. The prices received index increased 2 points, to 14.2.  Six-Month Indicators Reflect Optimism
The survey’s future indicators have suggested markedly improved
optimism among the reporting manufacturers in recent months. The
future general activity index increased 3 points, from 58.2 to
60.8, exceeding its previous highs since the end of the
recession in 2009 (see Chart).  Slightly over 63 percent of
firms expect increases in activity over the next six months;
only 2 percent of firms indicated that they expect decreases
over the next six months. The indexes for future new orders and
shipments also remained at relatively high levels.  Over 67
percent of firms expect increases in new orders and 57 percent
of firms expect increases in shipments over the next six months.
The future employment index fell 4 points; however, nearly 37
percent of the firms expect to increase employment over the next
six months.  For this month’s special questions, manufacturers were asked
about changes in their workforce and the changing use of
flexible workers over the past year (see Special Questions).
The share of firms that increased their total workforce over the
past year (51 percent) was significantly greater than those that
decreased their workforce (27 percent), reflecting a marked
improvement from when the question was asked last year. The mix
of employment has changed for many firms.  For example, 76
percent of firms indicated that they use part-time workers. Of
this number, 15 percent of firms indicated that their share of
the total part-time workforce has increased over the past year,
whereas 5 percent of the firms decreased their share of these
workers.  Fewer firms use temporary/agency workers (65 percent)
and contract workers (39 percent) compared with part-time
workers. Among the firms that use temporary/agency and contract
workers, these workers account for nearly 10 percent of their
workforce.  Summary
According to respondents to the October Business Outlook Survey,
the region’s manufacturing sector continued to grow this month.
All the broad indicators were positive, with firms reporting
improvements in new orders and hiring.  Input price pressures
were slightly less widespread this month.  Firms’ outlook has
shown notable improvement in recent months, with a majority of
firms now expecting to expand manufacturing activity over the
next six months and more than one-third expecting to add
workers.  Notes: (1) Items may not add to 100 percent because of omission
by respondents. (2) All data are seasonally adjusted. (3)
Diffusion indexes represent the percentage of respondents
indicating an increase minus the percentage indicating a
decrease. (4) Survey data reflect information received through
October 15, 2013.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 