-- Turkish Jets Confront Syrian Aircraft After Army Returns Fire
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-10-17T13:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/turkish-jets-confront-syrian-aircraft-after-army-returns-fire.html
Turkish warplanes warned off a
Syrian jet and a helicopter close to the border, a day after
Turkish artillery batteries fired on Islamist rebels inside
 Syria , the military said on its website.  The Syrian MiG-21 fighter flew close to the border, while
an IL-76 helicopter changed course within Syrian territory as
the Turkish F-16s flew toward them, the military said in a
statement.  The aerial confrontation came a day after Turkish artillery
opened fire on al-Qaeda-linked Islamist fighters across the
frontier, and 85 members of the Syrian rebels’ North Storm
Brigade crossed into  Turkey  and surrendered to Turkish troops
with their guns, according to the army.  Eighty-four members of the rebel group were deported early
today without weapons, while one was jailed pending charges, the
military said without elaborating. The North Storm Brigade is
linked to the rebel Free Syrian Army, the Hurriyet newspaper
reported on Sept. 30. Radical Islamic fighters linked to al-Qaeda have fought against Kurdish as well as Free Syrian Army
rebels over control of border regions.  Artillery batteries using howitzers fired four salvos at
positions of the Islamic State in Iraq and Sham after a mortar
round from the Azaz area landed close to the Turkish army border
post at Demirisik, near the town of Kilis, on Oct. 15, the
military said on its website yesterday, adding that the round
did not explode. The army statement didn’t make clear whether
the Islamists were firing at their nominal FSA allies.  Northern Fighting  Islamists and other rebels have engaged in increasingly
fierce fighting this year. Hours after the cross-border
exchanges, clashes broke out in northern Hassaka province
between Kurdish nationalists and Islamists, leaving 41 dead
including militants from the Islamic State in Iraq and Sham and
the Nusra Front, the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights 
reported on its website yesterday, citing local activists.  Islamic fighters linked to al-Qaeda are asserting growing
control over border areas close to Turkey. The al-Tawhid Brigade
has deployed tanks seized from the Syrian army to fortify its
positions at the Es Selame border crossing near Kilis in Turkey,
the military said, citing defecting members of the North Storm
Brigade.  Turkey has denied backing radical Islamic fighters, while
acknowledging that it’s aiding members of the Free Syrian Army
in their struggle to topple Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. On
Oct. 1, he used a Turkish television interview to accuse Turkey
of aiding the flow of Islamist fighters.  Turkish authorities have blamed a Turkish group linked to
the Syrian regime for car bombings that killed 53 people in
Reyhanli near the Syrian border in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  