-- Turk Army Fires on Islamists at Border as Rebels Flee
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-10-17T12:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/turkish-army-fires-on-islamists-as-syrian-troops-flee.html
(Corrects headline, lead, third paragraph to show fleeing
fighters are Syrian rebels.)  Turkish artillery opened fire on al-Qaeda-linked Islamic fighters across the border as scores of
Syrian rebels entered  Turkey , the army said.  Howitzer units fired four salvos at positions of the
Islamic State in Iraq and Sham after a mortar round from the
Azaz area landed close to the Turkish army border post at
Demirisik, near the town of Kilis, on Oct. 15, the military said
on its  website  yesterday, adding that the round did not explode.  Some 85 armed members of the rebel North Storm Brigade,
which is linked to the Free Syrian Army, turned themselves in to
Turkish forces at Demirisik on the same day, the army said,
without saying whether the Islamists were firing at the men.  Hours after the cross-border exchanges, fighting erupted in
northern Hassaka province between Kurdish nationalists and
Islamists, leaving 41 dead including militants from the Islamic
State in Iraq and Sham and the Nusra Front, the Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights  reported on its  website  yesterday,
citing local activists.  Islamic fighters linked to al-Qaeda have increasingly
asserted control along border areas with Turkey. The al-Tawhid
Brigade has deployed tanks seized from the Syrian army to
fortify its positions at the Es Selame border crossing near
Kilis in Turkey, the military said, citing defecting Syrian
soldiers.  Turkey has firmly denied backing radical Islamic fighters,
while acknowledging that it’s aiding members of the Free Syrian
Army in their struggle to topple Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. On Oct. 1, he used a Turkish television interview to
accuse Turkey of aiding the flow of Islamist fighters into
 Syria .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  