-- Murray Goulburn’s Bid for Warrnambool Tops Saputo’s Offer
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-10-18T05:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/murray-goulburn-tops-saputo-with-a-420-million-warrnambool-bid.html
Murray Goulburn Cooperative Co.,
Australia’s biggest milk processor, joined a three-way contest
for Warrnambool Cheese & Butter Factory Co., making a bid valued
at A$420 million ($404 million).  Murray Goulburn, Warrnambool’s second-largest shareholder,
offered A$7.50 cash a share, for the maker of brands including
Sungold and Warrnambool cheddar, it said today in a statement.
It’s priced at 7.1 percent more than  Saputo Inc. (SAP) ’s A$7 offer and
13 percent above  Bega Cheese Ltd. (BGA) ’s cash and share bid.  Warrnambool jumped 6.3 percent to A$7.89 in Sydney trading,
suggesting some investors expect a higher bid.  “Anything is possible at this stage,”  said Mark Topy, a
Melbourne-based analyst with Canaccord Genuity Group Inc. “They
have all gone a little hot on just getting the assets at any
price.” There is also an “outside chance” of further bidders
making offers for the dairy producer, Topy said.  Bidders are seeking to add production to meet rising demand
in Asia which will this year see the price of exported milk
powder surge 33 percent, butter rise 16 percent and cheese climb
12 percent, according to a Oct. 9 filing by Warrnambool.  The Victoria-state based producer relies on exports for
most of its sales and last year made 143,000 metric tons of
dairy produce including cheese, milk powder and infant-formula
ingredients.  China , the world’s most populous nation, is setting
new records for milk-powder imports, while dairy demand in  India 
is outstripping local production, the company said.  Competing Bids  Montreal-based Saputo,  Canada ’s largest dairy processor,
could increase its offer for Warrnambool, according to Topy.
“Price doesn’t seem to have been that big a consideration,” he
said. “They want a base in  Australia .”  Buying Warrnambool, which also supplies milk to make
Philadelphia cream cheese, would give Murray Goulburn control of
a neighboring processor and key export infrastructure, Managing
Director Gary Helou told reporters today on a conference call.  A deal would allow the farmer-owned co-operative to take a
“major step toward arresting the decline in our industry and
seizing the prize that Asian markets are offering us,” Helou
said.  Murray Goulburn, which had its 2010 offer for Warrnambool
rejected, made a bid priced at 1 percent more than Warrnambool’s
closing price of A$7.42 yesterday. The maker of Devondale milk
and cheese said it obtained A$350 million in extra debt
facilities to help fund the purchase.  Warrnambool directors will meet to consider the Murray
Goulburn proposal, it said today in a statement. The company’s
board has unanimously recommended Saputo’s offer and rejected
Bega’s bid as too low. “Shareholders will have ample time to
make a decision,” the producer said.  Consolidation  Helou said the company would seek approval for the deal
from the Australian Competition Tribunal, allowing it to respond
publicly to any regulatory concern over dairy industry
consolidation. “We think we have a compelling net public
benefit argument here,” Helou told reporters.  Evan Lucas, a market strategist at IG Markets in  Melbourne ,
said regulators would examine the potential that a deal could
restrict competition in milk processing in Victoria state and
South Australia state. “It may mean that Murray Goulburn talk
about getting round that issue by selling some assets,” he
said.  Bega rose 0.8 percent to A$3.88 in Sydney, swelling the
value of its bid to A$6.66 a share. The New South Wales state-based producer last month offered 1.2 shares and A$2 cash for
each Warrnambool share.  With a  cash balance  at June 30 of A$24.2 million, Bega is
unlikely to be in a position to raise its offer, according to
Topy. “The game is all about cash now,” he said.  Murray Goulburn, which is being advised by  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) ,
 holds 17 percent  and Bega Cheese holds 18 percent of
Warrnambool, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  