-- Valeo Third-Quarter Sales Rise Helped by Increased China Demand
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-10-17T16:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/valeo-third-quarter-sales-rise-helped-by-increased-china-demand.html
Valeo SA (FR) ,  France ’s second-biggest
car-parts maker, said third-quarter sales rose as demand grew in
 China  and  North America  and the European car market showed signs
of stabilizing.  Sales grew 2.2 percent to 2.91 billion euros ($3.98
billion) from 2.84 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based
company said in an e-mailed statement today. Nine-month revenue
amounted to 9.07 billion euros, up 2.6 percent from a year
earlier.  The French manufacturer stuck to its full-year target of a
“slight increase” in operating margin as a proportion of
revenue in 2013, “assuming stabilized market conditions in
 Europe .” Europe’s car market is set to shrink for a sixth
consecutive year following an 18-month recession in the euro
region that ended in the second quarter.  “The group recorded excellent figures for the original
equipment market, as well as in the aftermarket and demonstrated
its capacity for balanced growth,” Chief Executive Officer
Jacques Aschenbroich said in the statement. “These results
reflect the gradual entry into production of the high order
intake recorded by the group over the last three years and the
strength of Valeo’s growth model.”  Valeo, whose products span windshield wipers, headlights
and stop-start ignition systems, is focusing on technology
promoting vehicle safety, comfort and pollution reduction to
increase profitability. Aschenbroich pledged in March 2011 to
boost annual revenue to 14 billion euros by 2015, propelled by
sales of fuel-saving components.  Exchange Rates  The depreciation of South American currencies, including
the Argentinian peso and the Brazilian real, may weigh on
Valeo’s second-half operating margin, the CEO said in an
interview on Sept. 11. Changes in exchange rates and Valeo’s
structure had a negative impact on its third-quarter revenue of
5.2 percent and 4.4 percent respectively, it said.  The changes in the company’s structure stem from the sale
of Access Mechanisms and the acqusition of a controlling
interest in Foshan Ichikoh Valeo.  Exchange-rate effects reduced the first-half operating
margin by 0.3 percentage point, Valeo said on July 30.
Currencies affecting earnings included the yen, Brazilian real,
Indian rupee and Argentinian peso, arising from the need to
import parts to  South America , Chief Financial Officer Robert
Charvier said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  