-- Wal-Mart Revamps China Purchasing Operations, Shuts Some Stores
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-17T09:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/wal-mart-revamps-china-purchasing-operations-shuts-some-stores.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, is overhauling purchasing operations in China
and will close more than 20 underperforming stores there over
the next year to improve returns from the Asian nation.  The company is “restructuring” parts of its China
business with changes that include new management structures and
more efficient purchasing offices to curb costs, it said in a
statement today. The retailer continues to add new stores in
China even as it shutters less profitable ones.  The U.S. retailer faces stiff competition on the mainland
from regional rivals such as  Sun Art Retail Group Ltd. (6808)  and  China
Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291) , who have tailored promotions and
shopping experiences to Chinese tastes. While Wal-Mart  China ’s
net sales excluding an online grocer business rose 6.3 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier, customer traffic
declined 6.8 percent, according to a Bloomberg transcript of the
company’s earnings conference call in August.  Even as competition has risen in China, economic growth has
slowed with gross domestic product expanding 7.5 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the second straight
deceleration.  Wal-Mart will close more than 20 China stores representing
about 2.5 percent of its total sales volume there over the next
year, Scott Price, its Asia chief said in a conference call on
Oct. 15. The stores did not have ideal locations and layouts,
Price said.  The retailer said last October it plans to open more than
100 new stores over the next three years in the Asian nation.  India Setback  Wal-Mart is overhauling the China business as it faces
troubles in  India , where it recently ended a six-year local
partnership with Bharti Enterprises Pvt., a setback for its
plans to set up retail stores in that country.  The company has consolidated 29 buying offices into eight
this year, Price said on the call. The company is further
“consolidating the buying function,” the chain said in today’s
statement today, without providing specific details.  Affected employees in China’s merchandising unit will be
offered positions of similar levels in various other divisions
in China and the company will compensate staff that choose to
leave, according to today’s statement. It did not immediately
respond to questions on the number of staff affected.  Hypermarket chains are consolidating on the mainland amid
greater competition.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the largest U.K. retailer, said
in October it will form a joint venture and merge its more than
130 stores in China with the Hong Kong-listed China Resources
Enterprise Ltd.  Wumart Stores Inc. (1025) , a Chinese supermarket operator, also
said this week that it will buy 36 stores from  CP Lotus Corp. (121) 
through a share swap to expand in Northern China.  Sun Art is China’s largest hypermarket operator, with a 14
percent share of the industry last year, according to
Euromonitor International. Wal-Mart and China Resources are tied
for second place with an 11 percent share each in 2012.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  