-- Wal-Mart Backed Yihaodian to Double Items to Tap China Web Boom
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-17T18:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/wal-mart-backed-yihaodian-to-double-items-to-tap-china-web-boom.html
Yihaodian, the  Wal-Mart Stores Inc (WMT) .-
backed Chinese website that sells goods from phones to Oreo
cookies, said it will double offerings by the end of next year
to win a bigger share of the online shopping market.  The Internet retailer is focusing on building scale and has
yet to turn a profit, Yu Gang, Yihaodian’s chairman and co-founder, said in an Oct. 16 interview in  Shanghai . It currently
sells 2.7 million products.  “Right now I think our focus is still selection growth,
geographic region growth, service expansion,” said Yu.  Yihaodian faces larger e-commerce companies including
360buy Jingdong Inc. and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. in China,
where McKinsey & Co. estimates online shopping sales will triple
to $395 billion in 2015 from 2011. A broader line-up will help
Yihaodian earn customer loyalty, said Alex Wang Tingting, a
Beijing-based analyst at Internet consulting group iResearch.  “Should Yihaodian chase profits now those gains may be
very short term,” the analyst said.  China  has the highest number of people who buy goods
online, nearly 220 million in 2012, according to industry
researcher eMarketer Inc. Wal-Mart, the world’s largest
retailer, became a majority shareholder last year after
increasing its stake to about 51 percent.  Alibaba Group dominated the Chinese Internet retailing
market with a 51 percent market share in 2012, according to data
from Euromonitor International. 360buy holds 13 percent and Wal-Mart is seventh with 1.3 percent.  Traditional Stores  The Yihaodian stake helps Wal-Mart reach more customers in
the Asian nation, where brick-and-mortar supermarkets are
battling rising competition and increased costs.  While Wal-Mart China’s net sales excluding the website rose
6.3 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, traffic
declined 6.8 percent, according to a Bloomberg transcript of the
company’s earnings conference call. Wal-Mart is closing more
than 20 underperforming stores in the country even as it adds
others.  Yihaodian sales continue to grow “well in the double
digits” and the site is one of the fastest growing e-commerce
businesses in the country, Doug McMillon, president of Wal-Mart’s international business, said on the call.  The site plans to expand its array of imported products to
about a fifth of total items from about 10 percent now as
consumers’ food safety concerns and focus on quality drives
demand. “We want to provide vast customer choices,” said Yu.
It plans to at least double its products each year.  Sam’s Club  Online price discounting will remain a fixture in the
industry in the near term as companies compete for price-sensitive Internet shoppers in China, said Yu, who co-founded
the company with Chief Executive Officer Junling Liu in 2008.  Yihaodian had sales of 2.72 billion  yuan  ($446 million) in
2011, Yu said in a 2012 interview. There is no shareholder
pressure to be profitable and no immediate plan for a stock
listing, he said in this week’s interview, while declining to
disclose latest financial results. The company currently has
10,000 employees, up from 7,000 at the end of December, and 47
million registered customers, up from 30 million at the end of
2012.  Yihaodian has been working with Wal-Mart, its largest
shareholder, for synergies in sourcing, intercity-transportation
and e-commerce technology, Yu said. It is also in the early
stages of partnering with Wal-Mart’s Sam’s Club, with Chinese
customers able to order online and pick up groceries at brick-and-mortar outlets.  Alibaba more than doubled second-quarter earnings to $707
million with revenue increasing to $1.73 billion from $1.08
billion a year earlier. 360buy, part owned by Saudi billionaire
 Prince Alwaleed bin Talal , in February said that it sells more
than 7 million products from home appliances to books in China.  The global online grocery shopping market is expected to
reach $100 billion by 2018, according to a report by the  Boston
Consulting Group  this month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  