-- What Michigan Race Case Is Really About
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-10-17T17:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/what-michigan-race-case-is-really-about.html
The Supreme Court  heard  arguments
this week in a major but misunderstood affirmative-action case
in  Michigan . The central issue isn’t whether affirmative action
is constitutional. It involves the permissible uses of state
ballot initiatives.  For more than 30 years, members of the court have  debated 
this question: When, if ever, are public institutions allowed to
create race-conscious programs intended to help members of
racial minority groups? Some justices believe that the Equal
Protection Clause requires color-blindness. In their view,
universities may not favor black applicants, even if the goal is
to promote diversity in the classroom.  Other justices  believe  that the Equal Protection Clause was
designed to forbid discrimination against members of minority
groups, and not to forbid public institutions from taking steps
to overcome a history of discrimination, or to add diversity to
institutions that could benefit from it.  The court remains divided about the legitimacy of
affirmative-action programs. As the law now stands, the
Constitution prohibits rigid racial quotas, but it  allows 
universities to consider race in their admissions decisions, at
least if the aim is a more diverse institution and if race-neutral policies can’t promote that goal. Last June, the court
essentially affirmed that complex principle.  The Michigan case raises a different question.  Michigan Voters  The issue in  Schuette v. Coalition  to Defend Affirmative
Action isn’t whether the Constitution allows public institutions
to take race into account. It is whether the Constitution allows
the voters of Michigan to prohibit preferential treatment in
education, government employment and public contracting. In
2006, Michigan voters, by 58 percent to 42 percent, amended the
state constitution to do precisely that.  In general, everyone agrees that states may control the
practices of public universities. If a state wants to ban such
universities from having equestrian teams, or from
discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation, it is
permitted to do so. So Michigan is  asking : Why can’t our voters
decide that affirmative-action programs aren’t in the state’s
best interest?  Two Supreme Court decisions, neither involving affirmative
action, suggest a potential answer. In 1969, the justices were
confronted with a referendum that suspended the operation of a
local fair-housing ordinance and that required any such
ordinance to go through a special approval process. The  court 
said that the referendum was “an explicitly racial
classification treating racial housing differently from other
racial and housing matters.” The classification imposed unusual
obstacles on those seeking to use the law to protect against
discrimination. Because it “places special burdens on racial
minorities within the government process,” the court concluded
that the referendum was invalid.  In 1982, the justices  invalidated  a state ballot initiative
that barred school boards from requiring students to attend
schools not nearest (or next nearest) to their place of
residence. The purpose of the initiative was to reduce what its
proponents saw as unjustified “busing” to produce racial
balance. The court  said  that under the Constitution, the
government could not restructure the political process “by
explicitly using the racial nature of a decision to determine
the decisionmaking process.” In forbidding school boards from
doing what school boards are usually authorized to do, the
initiative  imposed  “substantial and unique burdens on racial
minorities.”  Do these precedents mean that Michigan voters may not
outlaw affirmative-action programs? A divided lower court
thought so. It  insisted  that under the  Supreme Court ’s
precedents, “the majority may not manipulate the channels of
change so as to place unique burdens on issues of importance
to” the minority.  Overruling Voters  With its statewide pronouncement, reordering the political
process in a way that  burdens  racial minorities, the state’s
ballot initiative “rigged the game” so that the majority could
“reproduce its success indefinitely.”  In light of the Supreme Court’s precedents, the argument
isn’t without force, but as this week’s oral argument suggests,
the issue is far from simple. True, the court has  struck down 
initiatives that created obstacles to efforts to produce equal
treatment. But Michigan believes that its initiative will
promote equal treatment by preventing preferential treatment.
Far from treating one group differently from another, Michigan
argues that it is prohibiting universities (and others) from
doing exactly that.  Whether or not Michigan’s argument is convincing, it is
relatively narrow. The state is insisting on the power of its
voters, through a ballot initiative, to forbid what they see as
discriminatory practices on the part of its universities.  Even if the court accepts the state’s argument, it is
unlikely to address the larger  question  of whether and when the
Constitution itself prohibits affirmative action. Having no need
to answer that question, the justices will almost certainly
leave it for another day.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 