-- Won Rises to Nine-Month High as U.S. Averts Default; Bonds Gain
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-10-17T07:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/won-trades-near-nine-month-high-as-u-s-senate-votes-bonds-gain.html
South  Korea ’s won advanced to a
nine-month high after lawmakers in the U.S. voted to end the
government shutdown and avert a debt default for the world’s
largest economy. Sovereign bonds rose.  President  Barack Obama  signed into law an agreement that
ends the 16-day impasse and extends the nation’s borrowing
authority to early next year. The won pared gains on speculation
South Korean authorities intervened in the market as the
currency rose to the highest level since January.  The won advanced 0.2 percent to 1,063.58 per dollar in
 Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier
touched 1,063.10, the strongest level since Jan. 23. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, fell 43 basis points, or 0.43
percentage point, to 6.28 percent.  “As the won strengthened against the dollar, the
authorities are suspected to have intervened to slow the pace of
gains,” Jude Noh, chief currency trader at Suhyup Bank in
Seoul, said by phone.  Jung Ho Seok, head of foreign exchange at  Bank of Korea ,
declined to comment when asked whether there was any
intervention to curb the won’s rise, which hurts the nation’s
exports.  South Korea  is closely monitoring the foreign-exchange
market for “herd behavior” and for an increase in volatility,
Kim Seong Wook, director at the Finance Ministry’s Foreign
Exchange Market Division, said by telephone.  Stocks, Inflows  The benchmark Kospi index of shares rose 0.3 percent and
overseas investors  bought  more local equities than they sold for
a record 35th day, pumping in some $11.1 billion since Aug. 22,
the last day of net sales, exchange data show. The nation’s
producer prices fell for the 12th straight month in September,
dropping 1.8 percent from a year earlier, according to a Bank of
Korea statement today.  With the U.S. default risk pushed back till next year,
focus may now return to the  Federal Reserve  and on when it will
start paring the $85 billion of monthly bond purchases that have
spurred demand for higher-yielding assets. The central bank
unexpectedly refrained from cutting stimulus last month.  “The won will continue to rise gradually against the
dollar until early next year as the Fed tapering probably won’t
begin this year,” Bae Sun Young, an auditor at Export-Import
Bank of Korea, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign notes due
June 2016 dropped two basis points to 2.85 percent, according to
Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  