-- Tymoshenko Gets Ukraine President’s Pledge for Foreign Care
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-10-17T14:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/tymoshenko-cleared-for-foreign-care-to-unlock-ukraine-s-eu-pact.html
Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych  said he’ll allow jailed ex-Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  to leave the country for medical care as he seeks to
clear the path to a delayed European integration accord.  Yanukovych said today in televised comments from Donetsk
that he’d sign a bill permitting her departure if lawmakers
approved it. Tymoshenko has suffered from back complaints as she
serves a seven-year sentence for abuse of office.  Ukraine is seeking to sign a European Union Association
Agreement and free-trade pact in November, cementing a westward
shift and rejecting membership of a Russian-led customs union.
The EU accord has been delayed since 2011 as Tymoshenko, a rival
of Yanukovych in the 2004 Orange Revolution, was convicted in a
case she and the 28-member EU deem selective justice.  “Yanukovych is looking for a way out and a law like this
is one of the possibilities,” Yuriy Yakymenko, head of the
political department at the Razumkov Center in the capital,
Kiev, said by phone.  Yields on Ukrainian government debt due 2014 fell to 11.247
percent as of 17:30 p.m. in Kiev, the lowest level since Sept.
20, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The hryvnia strengthened to
8.1868 per dollar from 8.1890 yesterday.  EU Compromise  While the EU had sought Tymoshenko’s release, she may not
need to be freed for Ukraine’s EU deal to proceed, Lithuanian
President Dalia Grybauskaite, whose country holds the bloc’s
rotating presidency through year-end, said last month. A
European Parliament commission led by ex-Polish President
Aleksander Kwasniewski and Pat Cox, the former head of the
legislature, has been working on a solution to he plight.  Yanukovych has said he can’t pardon Tymoshenko because
there are outstanding cases against her, including for alleged
tax evasion and claims she was involved in organizing a murder.  Tymoshenko has backed an EU proposal that she get medical
care in  Germany , Serhiy Vlasenko, her lawyer, said Oct. 4.
She’ll travel to Germany for treatment by Nov. 19, Reuters
reported today, citing her daughter, Yevgenia.  Her spokeswoman, Natalia Lysova, declined to comment
immediately on Yanukovych’s remarks, while Vlasenko didn’t
answer calls to his mobile phone.  Russian Contract  Tymoshenko’s abuse-of-office conviction stems from a
natural gas contract she signed with Russian President  Vladimir Putin  in 2009, which prosecutors say was damaging to Ukraine.
She says the case against her was engineered by Yanukovych to
keep her out of politics.  Tymoshenko first became prime minister in 2005 after the
Orange Revolution helped overturn Yanukovych’s presidential
victory, clearing the way for  Viktor Yushchenko . Yanukovych
defeated her to become Ukraine’s leader in a 2010 vote.  The planned EU deal has caused friction with  Russia , which
disrupted the passage of Ukrainian goods across its border in
August and has banned imports from its neighbor’s biggest
confectionery producer. The agreement is scheduled to be signed
in the Lithuanian capital of Vilnius in late November.  “I have no doubts we’ll sign the pact in November.”
Yanukovych said today. “We’ll have access to a huge market of
28 countries. I’m sure that getting such an opportunity will
bring better economic results.”  -- Editors: Andrew Langley, Balazs Penz  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  