-- ThyssenKrupp Holder Cevian to Raise Stake, Manager Magazine Says
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-10-17T13:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/thyssenkrupp-holder-cevian-to-raise-stake-manager-magazine-says.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ’s second-largest
holder wants to raise its stake in the company, Manager Magazin
reported, sending the shares to their highest in nine months.  Cevian Capital AB will seek to raise its stake in  Germany ’s
largest steelmaker to 10 percent by year-end from 6.1 percent,
the magazine reported, citing unidentified people. The shares
advanced 0.5 percent to 19.095 euros in Frankfurt trading, the
highest intraday level since Jan. 11, before retreating after
the companies declined to comment on the story.  The stock has gained 8 percent since Sept. 24, the day
before Cevian raised its  holding  from a minor stake, fueling
speculation that greater participation by the Swedish  investment
company  will spur restructuring. The producer has been trying to
expand its non-steel business and offload its unprofitable Steel
Americas division to weather a decline in demand.  Cevian wants a supervisory board seat, which ThyssenKrupp
management may agree to, reducing the seats of its largest
investor, the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Foundation,
from 3 to 2, Manager Magazin reported.  Spokesmen for Cevian and ThyssenKrupp both declined to
comment when phoned by  Bloomberg News . The foundation didn’t
return a call. The shares declined 0.4 percent to 18.915 euros
at 3:07 p.m.  “If an investor buys such a big share, it has given a lot
of thought to this move; some imitated that,” Christian Obst,
an analyst at  Baader Bank AG (BWB) , said by phone from Munich.  It is “conceivable that Cevian Capital will participate in
possible capital measures and thereby will increase its stake,”
Roland Klein, a spokesman for Cevian at CNC Communications, said
on Sept. 25. It isn’t interested in taking over ThyssenKrupp and
normally holds stakes for at least five years, he said at the
time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  