-- Hyundai Steel to Buy Hysco Unit for Carmaker Sheet Supply
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-10-17T10:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-17/hyundai-steel-to-buy-hyundai-hysco-s-cold-rolled-steel-business.html
Hyundai Steel Co. (004020) ’s plan to take
over the core business of its affiliate Hyundai Hysco Co. will
create a new type of integrated steelmaker with  South Korea ’s
largest carmaker as a captive customer.  Hyundai Motor Group Chairman  Chung Mong Koo , 75, is the
biggest individual stakeholder of both Hyundai Steel and Hysco,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and controls the
group’s 57 affiliates through a web of cross-shareholdings.  The all share deal for Hysco values the operation at 2.8
trillion won ($2.6 billion).  “Hyundai Steel will become a complete steelmaker, able to
rival the country’s biggest steelmaker Posco,” Lee Won Jae, an
analyst at SK Securities Co. in  Seoul , said by phone today after
the filing. “This is definitely a positive factor considering
that there are no steelmakers around the world that has a parent
company like Hyundai Motor Group, which has ongoing demand for
steel products.”  Hyundai Steel and global rivals including  Posco (005490)  have been
struggling with falling profits as  Europe ’s debt crisis and
 China ’s slowdown cut demand and prices. The deal gives Hyundai
Steel a cold-rolled steel unit that  provided 91 percent  of
Hyundai Hysco’s operating income last year. Hysco will retain a
steel pipe and steel byproducts business. Hyundai Steel gained
4.5 percent at the close in Seoul, while Hysco rose 0.7 percent.  “For Hyundai Steel shareholders, the deal looks to be not
that bad as they are taking over Hysco’s core business,” Bang
Min Jin, a steel analyst at HI Investment & Securities Co. in
Seoul, said by phone. “Hysco will be left with the pipeline
business, which does not have a bright outlook, while its
overseas processing business is somewhat promising.”  Family Ties  Chung’s son Chung Eui Sun is co-vice chairman at Hyundai
Steel, while Hysco Chief Executive Officer Shin Sung Jae is
Chung’s third son-in-law.  Hyundai Steel and Hysco are key links in Hyundai Motor’s
supply chain, which spans raw-material steel to end-product
cars. Hyundai Steel sells hot-rolled coil steel to Hysco, which
is then used as a raw material to make car sheets that are sold
to Hyundai Motor, the world’s fifth-largest carmaker.  Hyundai Steel, which plans to complete the transaction this
year, offered 0.3889584 of its shares for Hysco’s business unit,
according to filings by the companies today.  Hysco shares closed yesterday at 41,800 won, giving it a
market value of $3.1 billion. Hysco will hold a shareholder
meeting on Nov. 29 on the board’s merger decision, the company
said.  “The merger is also a burden for steel companies including
Posco and  Dongkuk Steel Mill Co. (001230) , since this will create a new
strong competitor at a time when the industry is seeing limited
local demand,” Lee at SK Securities said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  