-- AccuWeather Forecasts Above-Average Hurricane Season in Atlantic
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-05-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/accuweather-forecasts-above-average-hurricane-season-in-atlantic.html
The Atlantic will probably produce an
above-average 16 tropical storms this year, with eight of those
strengthening into hurricanes, AccuWeather Inc. said.  Four of the systems are expected to become major
hurricanes, Category 3 or stronger with winds of at least 111
miles (179 kilometers) per hour, according to the State College,
Pennsylvania-based forecaster.  The 30-year average for the Atlantic is 12 tropical storms,
six of which become hurricanes and three major storms. Atlantic
hurricanes are watched closely because of their threat to major
U.S. population centers and oil and natural gas production and
processing.  “It will be an above-normal season with perhaps stronger
storms than last year,” Dan Kottlowski, lead hurricane
forecaster at AccuWeather, said in a telephone interview. “That
doesn’t mean the stronger storms will hit the U.S., but we do
think there will be a lot more potential for stronger storms
this year.”  The Gulf of  Mexico  is home to 7 percent of U.S. natural gas
output, 23 percent of oil production and 44 percent of refining
capacity, according to the Energy Department. In addition,
 Florida  is the world’s second-largest orange producer, behind
 Brazil .  Strike Chances  AccuWeather said today that at least three storms may hit
the U.S. this year. It can’t say how strong they will be.  People should keep the example of  Hurricane Sandy  in mind
when judging threat, Kottlowski said. Sandy struck the coast of
New Jersey and inflicted billions of dollars’ worth of damage
although it was no longer classified a hurricane when it hit.  “You don’t need a Category 4 hurricane to cause massive
damage, all you need is a big, overgrown storm,” Kottlowski
said by telephone.  The Atlantic hurricane season begins June 1 and runs
through November. A tropical system receives a name when winds
reach 39 mph and becomes a hurricane when sustained winds grow
to 74 mph.  Each of the past three years produced 19 named storms, and
Kottlowski said all the factors that made those years so active
are still in place in the Atlantic, including warm ocean water.
Phenomena that could limit the number of storms, such as El Nino
or dust from the African desert, are absent.  Weather Patterns  El Nino, a warming in the central Pacific Ocean, causes
wind shear across the tropical Atlantic that can rob storms of
their power or destroy them altogether. Dust and dry air off
 Africa  can also damp a storm’s power and longevity.  “We’re trying to get a handle on how much some of these
other small factors such as African dust are going to have on
the season,” Kottlowski said.  In April, Colorado State University, which pioneered
seasonal hurricane forecasting, predicted 18 storms would
develop in the Atlantic this year and nine would become
hurricanes. The  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
will release its pre-season forecast on May 23.  The eastern Pacific Season, also tracked by the U.S.
 National Hurricane Center  in Miami, started today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  