-- Accused U.S. Spy Was Maxwell Smart in Moscow
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-05-15T20:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/accused-u-s-spy-s-tools-get-a-laugh-from-russians.html
Two wigs, one blond, one dark.
Three pairs of glasses. Two knives. Two envelopes containing
500 euro notes. One flashlight. One can of mace. One compass.
One paper map of Moscow. One ancient Nokia phone. One letter
in Russian, addressed “Dear friend.”  These, according to the state-controlled news agency RIA
Novosti, were the  objects  that were seized from Ryan
Christopher Fogle, third secretary of the U.S. Embassy in
Moscow, when he was  arrested  by Russian counterintelligence
late May 14 for allegedly trying to recruit a Russian special
services officer.  Russia declared Fogle persona non grata and is demanding
that he be sent home as soon as possible, the Foreign Ministry
said in a  statement  and Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov
conveyed a “protest” to U.S. Ambassador  Michael McFaul .  This was serious business: Fogle was apprehended just as
President  Vladimir Putin  was preparing a reply to an important
letter from U.S. President  Barack Obama . A month ago, Obama
proposed a number of steps to improve U.S.-Russian relations,
including a legally binding agreement to exchange information
on anti-missile systems, a high-level bilateral commission on
economic cooperation, further nuclear arms cuts and a direct
encrypted video link between the two presidents. The Kremlin
said it would reply by May 20.  Recorded Arrest  Footage  of the arrest, released by the Federal Security
Service, shows a Russian counterintelligence officer lecturing
Fogle and the U.S.  Embassy  officials who had come to pick him
up: “Against the background of improving U.S.-Russian
relations we have a U.S. diplomat committing a crime against
the Russian Federation.”  Yet Russian bloggers couldn’t help laughing as they
watched the spy thriller unfold: Fogle’s alleged toolkit was
too 20th century. “I can’t get rid of the feeling that this is
a clown’s farce,” wrote  blaster2009, a  LiveJournal  user.
“It’s as if the CIA wanted to make the FSB look stupid and
tried too hard, overacted. Or maybe they wanted to distract
people from something serious. This is just no way to recruit
anyone.”  The alleged U.S. spy’s methods elicited mockery, too.
“OK, I understand: a wig, a knife, a flashlight -- that’s
intelligence,” Moscow editor  Dmitri Butrin  wrote on Facebook.
“But why did the spy Fogle need a compass?”  Russian KGB veterans were less sarcastic: They pointed
out that a spy needed to avoid modern high-tech devices to
make detection more difficult. Nonetheless, they had a low
opinion of the CIA’s attempts to infiltrate Russian special
services. “When Americans have to deal with foreigners, they
believe there is the American way and the wrong way,” Soviet
military intelligence defector Viktor Suvorov told the  TV
channel Dozhd . “They are psychologically unprepared for such
work.”  Another former intelligence officer, the banker  Alexander Lebedev , told  Dozhd : “It looks like counterintelligence did
its job well, but the CIA operative looks silly. Well, there
are spies like this, too, and this is how they are trained and
what they look like.”  Still, the money Fogle supposedly carried -- 100,000
euros ($129,000) in large bills -- was no joke to anyone, and
neither was the promise of $1 million per year for “long-term
cooperation,” spelled out in the confiscated letter.  “The stakes are not just high, they are exorbitant,”
blogger Sergei Kolyasnikov wrote on  LiveJournal .  Incorruptible Officer  “A rank-and-file operative, not a legislator or top
bureaucrat, can never hope to earn that much in salary,” he
wrote. “What would you have done? I am just shocked by the
size of the payoff and proud of the honesty, valor and
incorruptibility of our officer.”  According to the FSB, the potential Russian recruit had
reported the U.S. diplomat’s advances several months ago and
made the arrest possible.  The FSB also announced May 15 that it had caught another
U.S. spy, also a third secretary at the Moscow embassy, in
January but had decided not to make that information public at
the time. Why then did Russian officials make a public display
of Fogle? Perhaps it was a signal from Putin that he wasn’t
impressed with Obama’s peace offering. The Kremlin has
recently stepped up its anti-U.S. rhetoric in response to
Congress’ Magnitsky Act, which barred a number of Russian
bureaucrats suspected of human-rights violations from entering
the U.S.  “Relations have never been so bad since the end of the
 Cold War ,” Alexei Arbatov of the Moscow Carnegie Center think
tank told   Gazeta.ru . “One spy here or there just could not
make things any worse.”  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 