-- Actavis Gaining More From Purchase Than Sale: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-05-15T14:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/actavis-gaining-more-from-purchase-than-sale-real-m-a.html
Actavis Inc. (ACT)  stands to return 17
percent more to shareholders by acquiring birth-control
drugmaker  Warner Chilcott  Plc than selling itself.  Shares of Actavis surged 12 percent last week to $119.86
after  Bloomberg News  reported that it’s in early-stage
negotiations to acquire Warner Chilcott, which the companies
later confirmed. The talks came after Actavis’s discussions to
sell itself to  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) 
stalled over price, people familiar with the matter said. Other
people said that Actavis also rejected a $120-a-share takeover
offer from Mylan Inc. Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. estimates that
Actavis may climb as high as $140 by buying Warner Chilcott.  Acquiring Warner Chilcott would reduce costs by as much as
$240 million and expand Actavis’s women’s health franchise,
Royal Bank of Canada said. It also may provide Actavis, which is
seeking to drive down its tax rate, with a $4-a-share tax
benefit because Warner Chilcott is incorporated in Ireland,
Leerink Swann LLC said. Adding to the $4.7 billion company’s
appeal, Warner Chilcott has the second-lowest valuation relative
to profit and free  cash flow  among its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The deal is good, the numbers work,” Ronny Gal, a New
York-based analyst with Bernstein, said in a telephone
interview. An acquirer of Actavis “would have to pay more than
the price the market assigns the combination with Warner
Chilcott.”  Merger Talks  Discussions between Valeant and Actavis regarding a merger
had been going on for some time, Bloomberg News reported April
26, citing a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations were private. The talks
reached an impasse because of a disagreement over price, people
familiar with the matter said April 28.  Actavis, which makes generic drugs, also had rejected a
cash-and-stock offer from rival Mylan this month valued at $120
a share, according to people familiar with the matter. In
addition, Israeli generic drugmaker  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  has looked at Actavis, said one of the people.
Teva is more keen on smaller acquisitions and isn’t likely to
bid, one of the people said.  Bloomberg News reported May 10 that Actavis is in early-stage talks to acquire Warner Chilcott, prompting both companies
to release statements confirming the discussions.  Actavis, which has a market value of $16 billion, is
discussing a bid of more than $5 billion for Warner Chilcott,
said another person. A deal could be completed in the next
couple of weeks, that person said.  Upside Potential  Charlie Mayr, a spokesman at Parsippany, New Jersey-based
Actavis, declined to comment beyond the company’s May 10
statement. Rochelle Fuhrmann, senior vice president of finance
at Dublin-based  Warner Chilcott (WCRX) , didn’t respond to a phone call
or e-mail. Representatives at Montreal-based Valeant, Mylan in
Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , and Teva declined to comment.  If Actavis buys Warner Chilcott, its  shares  may climb to
$130 to $140 apiece, Bernstein’s Gal said. That’s at least a 29
percent increase to its stock price before any talks were
reported last month and as much as 15 percent more than
yesterday’s record closing price of $121.68.  Alternatively, a $120-a-share bid for Actavis would value
the drugmaker at 20 times its earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization. While that would rank as the
second-highest valuation for a generic-drugmaker deal larger
than $500 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, it’s
still less than the possible gain for Actavis shares after a
Warner Chilcott purchase.  Bolstering Brands  Today, Actavis shares rose toward a new record, climbing
1.6 percent to $123.63 at 10:37 a.m.  New York  time. Warner
Chilcott climbed 2.8 percent to $19.45, headed for the highest
closing level in almost a year.  Actavis needs to do a deal so that its “long under-performing” branded medicines business can become a driver of
growth, according to Elliot Wilbur, a New York-based analyst at
Needham Group Inc.  Buying Warner Chilcott “would be a strong move toward
fulfilling that objective,” Wilbur wrote in a May 13 report.
The companies have complementary women’s health and urology
products, and Warner Chilcott would give Actavis a presence in
gastroenterology, he wrote, with a colitis drug that generated
$793 million of  sales  in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cost Savings  The combined entity may also be able to cut $120 million to
$240 million of operating expenses and reduce its  tax rate  from
28 percent to 23 percent, Shibani Malhotra, a New York-based
analyst at RBC, wrote in a May 13 note to clients. Jason Gerberry, a Boston-based analyst at Leerink Swann, said he
estimates about $200 million in cost savings and a combined
share price of as much as $125 apiece, which includes a $4 boost
from the lower levies in Ireland.  “If you think about it from Actavis’s perspective, buying
Warner Chilcott gives it the ability to potentially improve its
tax structure and expand its brand portfolio,” Gerberry said in
a phone interview. “There are some cost synergies also that
could be extracted because they have overlapping women’s health
and urology businesses.”  Opting to buy Warner Chilcott now would allow Actavis to
get the company while it’s cheap. Even after Warner Chilcott’s
stock surged 26 percent in the last three trading days, it has a
 price-earnings  ratio of 10, compared with the specialty
pharmaceuticals industry’s median multiple of 28, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Big Potato’  Bernstein’s Gal cautions that it would still be a large
deal for Actavis and the company shouldn’t be motivated by
Warner Chilcott’s cheap valuation alone. When adding up the
estimated value of each of its pieces, Irina Rivkind, a New
York-based analyst at  Cantor Fitzgerald  LP, arrives at $23 a
share. That implies a $9.2 billion transaction, including Warner
Chilcott’s net debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This is a pretty big potato,” Gal said. But “the
strength of the earnings and the cash flow of the combined
company are so high that it more than offsets the concerns we
have.”  Warner Chilcott, which tried to find a buyer last year,
would probably command a better price now because of drug
approvals the company has since received from the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration, according to Cantor Fitzgerald’s Rivkind.  “We think that the company walked away from an offer last
year since management thought it could do better later,” she
said in an e-mail. “With these approvals under their belt,
Warner Chilcott may now be able to command higher takeout
valuations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  