-- Activision Said to Shelve Plan for Vivendi Stake Purchase
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-05-15T20:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/activision-said-to-shelve-plan-for-vivendi-stake-purchase.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , the world’s
largest video-game publisher, has halted discussions on buying
back shares held by parent company  Vivendi SA (VIV)  amid a
disagreement on price, people with knowledge of the talks said.  Activision, based in  Santa Monica ,  California , was
considering buying at least part of Vivendi’s stake as recently
as last month, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private. Vivendi, which has a 61 percent
Activision shareholding valued at more than $10 billion as of
yesterday’s close, would have gradually sold its outstanding
shares on the open market if a stake remained, the people said.  Activision shares fell almost 2 percent to $14.90 at the
close in New York.  Vivendi is still exploring how to extract cash from its
stake, including a possible dividend recapitalization, one of
the people said. A sale of a small proportion of its shares to
the market that would still leave it in control of the video-game group is another option, another person said.  A spokesman for Vivendi declined to comment. Cassandra Bujarski, a spokeswoman for Activision at Sard Verbinnen, didn’t
return a call and e-mail seeking comment.  Re-evaluating Structure  Vivendi,  Europe ’s biggest media and telecommunications
company, last year failed to find buyers for its Activision
stake, which was the result of dealmaking by ousted Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy . The Paris-based
telecommunications and media group is re-evaluating its
structure amid sluggish share performance and tough competition
in the French mobile market.  Philippe Capron, Vivendi’s chief financial officer, said
yesterday on a conference call after its earnings report that
the board “continues to review a variety of different options”
for Activision.  The French daily newspaper Le Figaro reported last month
that Activision was considering using part of its $4.5 billion
cash pile to buy some of Vivendi’s stake.  While Activision has been a lucrative asset for Vivendi,
competition from so-called social games like those offered by
 Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  as well as the increasingly hit-driven nature of the
industry have drawn investor concern.  Its flagship “World of Warcraft” online game lost 1.3
million subscribers in the most recent quarter, and the company
faces the challenge of refreshing that franchise and its
military-themed game “Call of Duty.” Activision earlier this
month issued a cautious sales outlook for the rest of the year,
sending its shares down the most in 18 months.  Chief Executive Officer Bobby Kotick, who has led
Activision for more than 20 years, has meanwhile seen his
largest shareholder transformed from a stable, hands-off
investor to a candidate for breakup. Vivendi has sought to sell
its Maroc Telecom unit and GVT, a Brazilian broadband provider.
The company is also weighing a spinoff of its largest unit,
French mobile operator SFR, people familiar with the situation
said in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  