-- Aereo Asks Judge to Dismiss TV Networks’ Copyright Suit
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-05-15T14:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/aereo-asks-judge-to-dismiss-tv-networks-copyright-suit.html
Aereo Inc., the Barry Diller-backed
online TV service, asked a federal judge to dismiss copyright
infringement claims by the broadcast TV networks, which failed
to persuade an appeals court to shut down its operation.  Aereo yesterday requested judgment without a trial from
U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan in New York on the ground that
the federal appeals court ruled that the service didn’t violate
the networks’ right to public performance of its programming,
which requires a license.  Broadcasters including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC,  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  unsuccessfully petitioned the U.S.
Court of Appeals in New York to overturn Nathan’s order denying
a preliminary injunction that would have put New York-based
Aereo out of business.  The networks sued Aereo in March 2012, claiming that it
infringed copyrights by capturing their over-the-air signals and
by retransmitting the programming to subscribers on computers
and smartphones. Aereo’s transmissions are public performances
and require licenses, they said. Its service would devalue their
programming and cut viewership, jeopardizing revenue from
advertisers and pay-TV providers, according to the networks.  Last week Aereo sued CBS to prevent the network from
attempting to shut down the service in cities other than New
York. Since the appeals court ruling on April 1, Aereo announced
plans to expand its service to Boston and Atlanta.  The TV networks have petitioned the full U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit to review the decision last month
by two of three judges who heard arguments in the case.  The cases are American Broadcasting Cos. v. Aereo, 1:12-cv-01540, and WNET v. Aereo, 1:12-cv-01543, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  