-- Aircastle Aims to Double Plane Leasing Assets to $10 Billion
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-05-15T01:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/aircastle-aims-to-double-plane-leasing-assets-to-10-billion.html
Aircastle Ltd. (AYR)  aims to double its
aircraft leasing assets to $10 billion over the next five years
as rising travel in Asia spurs demand for planes.  The jet-leasing company, which owns  159 aircraft , plans to
invest $850 million this year, Chief Executive Officer Ron Wainshal said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday.  Aircastle, based at  Stamford , Connecticut, joins  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Asia’s largest aviation leasing
company, and  Orix Corp. (8591)  in expanding business as economic growth
in Asia boosts  travel demand . Asia-Pacific  air travel  will
expand 6.4 percent a year and the region will drive almost half
of the world’s air traffic growth in the next two decades,
Boeing Co. has forecast.  “There is nowhere in the world that has more demand for
wide-body aircraft than Asia,” Wainshal said. “It’s not a
number set in stone. If the market gets too high we will sell
more planes.”  The leasing company’s revenue may increase to $703.8
million this year, according to the average of nine  analysts’
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Profit will probably almost
triple to $93.6 million, the average of six analysts’ estimates
showed.  Aircastle’s stock rose 0.8 percent to $15.55 in New York
yesterday. It has gained 24 percent this year, compared with a
16 percent increase in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index.  The  leasing company , which employs 85 people worldwide,
increased the number of staff at its Singapore office to eight
this year from two, Wainshal said.  Bond Sale  The company, rated BB+ by Standard & Poor’s, may take
advantage of increased demand for speculative-grade corporate
bonds that pushed rates on the securities to a record low last
week. A bond sale could be for new capital or refinancing,
Wainshal said.  The yield to maturity on high-yield corporate bonds
worldwide fell below 6 percent last week, compared with a record
high of 23.2 percent in December 2008, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global High Yield index.  Aircastle, whose biggest shareholder is the Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan Board, has four bonds outstanding and is
paying a 9.75 percent coupon on $450 million of fixed-income
securities issued in 2010 that mature in August 2018, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “At the moment the  bond market  is incredibly attractive,”
Wainshal said. “I expect we could do something in the bond
market this year for growth or refinancing. The refinancing is
driven by what you have to pay to get out of existing
financing.”  Aircastle is interested in buying used planes or new wide-body planes, such as Boeing 777s, he said. The company isn’t
interested in ordering directly from Boeing and Airbus SAS at
the moment, Wainshal said.  “It has the strongest possibility of still being in
production at the end of the decade,” he said about the Boeing
777. “It still has a very good value.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in  Tokyo  at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  