-- Malaysia’s Growth Slows to Below 5% First Time in Seven Quarters
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2013-05-15T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/malaysia-s-growth-slows-to-below-5-first-time-in-seven-quarters.html
Malaysia ’s growth slowed to less than
5 percent for the first time in seven quarters as falling
exports offset domestic consumption gains from election spending.  Gross domestic product  rose 4.1 percent in the three months
through March from a year earlier, after a revised 6.5 percent
gain in the previous quarter, the central bank said in a
statement in  Kuala Lumpur  today. That is lower than all 22
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . The monetary authority
kept its full-year growth forecast at as much as 6 percent.  Prime Minister Najib Razak was returned to power in a
tightly contested election this month after giving handouts to
the poor, higher wages for civil servants and extending energy
subsidies. His efforts to boost domestic demand may help counter
the impact of falling exports amid a faltering global recovery.  “The recovery in terms of exports is quite weak” and will
be determined by a growth rebound in developed markets, Ho Woei Chen, a Singapore-based economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd.,
said before the release. “But consumption, investments will
remain strong in Malaysia.”  The ringgit slipped 0.4 percent at the close today. It has
risen about 2.6 percent in the past 12 months, the fifth-best
performer among 11 active Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index has gained more
than 14 percent and closed 0.3 percent lower today.  Malaysia’s central bank held its benchmark rate at 3
percent for a 12th meeting this month, even as policy makers
from  South Korea  to  Sri Lanka  cut borrowing costs. “Monetary
conditions remain supportive of economic activity,”  Bank Negara
Malaysia  said in a statement today.  ‘Significant’ Challenges  Malaysian  exports  have fallen in four out of six months
through March. Inflation has accelerated this year while
remaining among the slowest in the region, with  consumer prices 
rising 1.6 percent in March from a year earlier.  The global economic recovery from last year’s slowdown has
lost momentum over the past three months, with “several
economies still facing significant challenges and unlikely to
quickly resume normal growth rates,” Moody’s Investors Service
said in a report today.  Najib today announced new Cabinet appointments following
the May 5 election. Since taking charge in April 2009 during a
recession, he has opened up more industries to foreign investors
and implemented a minimum wage. A return to power allows the
premier to advance his so-called economic transformation program
aimed at drawing $444 billion in investments this decade in
projects including mass rail and oil storage.  Net exports of goods and services slumped 36.4 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier, after falling 9.3 percent
in the final quarter of 2012, today’s report showed.  Total consumption rose 6.1 percent in the January-to-March
period from a year ago after climbing 4.9 percent in the earlier
quarter, it showed. Gross fixed capital formation gained 13.2
percent, after an increase of 16 percent in the previous period.  “Domestic demand is expected to remain as the key driver
of growth, driven by sustained private sector expansion and
supported by the public sector,”  Bank Negara  said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 