-- Malfunction May End Kepler Spacecraft’s Hunt for Planets
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-05-16T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/malfunction-may-end-kepler-spacecraft-s-hunt-for-planets.html
Kepler, the  NASA  spacecraft that has
identified more than 2,700 planets orbiting distant stars, is
malfunctioning and may be abandoned, the U.S. space agency said.  A second “reaction wheel,” one of four that keep the
spacecraft’s camera stable as it examines stars for telltale
signs of orbiting planets, has failed, the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration said yesterday in a  statement . Without
at least three wheels, “it’s unlikely that the spacecraft will
be able to return to the high-pointing accuracy that enables its
high-precision photometry,” the agency said.  Kepler, launched in 2009, has made several discoveries,
including two planets found last month that may have the best
chance of any to date of being Earth-like and harboring life.
The planets, orbiting a star 2,000 light years away also named
Kepler, sit in the “habitable zone” of their sun where
temperatures may allow for liquid water.  “We’ve known for a while that this day would come,”
 William Welsh , an astronomer at  San Diego State University  who
has used Kepler data in his research, said in a telephone
interview. “Nevertheless, it is a sad day because it could mean
Kepler’s ability to take data on planets, or find new planets,
may be at an end.”  The faulty reaction wheel was discovered May 14 when
Kepler’s mission managers tried to communicate with the craft
and found it in “safe mode.” Kepler’s solar panels were facing
the sun and it was slowly spinning in space. NASA was able to
place the satellite in a “loosely pointed, thruster-controlled
state” while engineers try to determine how they might fix it.  Spacecraft Stable  “The spacecraft is stable and safe, if still burning
fuel,” NASA said. “In its current mode, our fuel will last for
several months.”  The first wheel malfunction occurred last year, according
to NASA.  The Kepler spacecraft is essentially a huge camera, parked
in orbit around the sun slightly behind Earth, that stares at a
single patch of sky containing about 160,000 stars, Welsh said.
It watches for tiny flickers of light as planets transit their
suns, causing distant eclipses.  The reaction wheels keep the camera stable. “Think of a
tripod that only has two legs instead of three,” said Jerome
Orosz, another San Diego State astronomer.  It’s possible that NASA could “unstick” the
malfunctioning wheel, Welsh said, which could extend Kepler’s
mission for months or years.  Top Achievement  If not,  Kepler  has completed its “primary” mission, which
was intended to last three and a half years, the space agency
said. It has been in an “extended mission phase” since
November, NASA said in the statement.  Welsh said Kepler has answered the question that led to its
launch: How common are small planets about the size of Earth?  “We now know that small planets and Earth-size planets are
really common, and there’s lots and lots of them,” he said,
calling Kepler “incredibly successful.”  Even if the spacecraft has to be abandoned, there are
“substantial quantities of data” already collected that
haven’t yet been analyzed, NASA said.  “The string of scientific discoveries is expected to
continue for years to come,” the agency said.  NASA seldom repeats its missions and is unlikely to replace
Kepler, Orosz said. The next step in planet finding, he and
Welsh said, will be spacecraft capable of identifying planets
orbiting stars near our own, and measuring their atmospheres for
chemicals that may indicate the presence of life, such as water,
oxygen and carbon dioxide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  