-- Altria, Lorillard Win Claims in Cigarette Trial
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-05-15T17:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/altria-lorillard-win-claims-in-cigarette-trial.html
Altria Group Inc. (MO) ,  Reynolds American
Inc. (RAI)  and  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  defeated most of the claims in lawsuits
brought by more than 700 West Virginia residents seeking damages
for death and injury caused by smoking.  A jury in state court in Charleston today ruled in the
cigarette makers’ favor on all but one question in the trial,
which began April 22, according to an online feed from Courtroom
View Network.  The jurors, who deliberated part of yesterday and today,
found against the smokers on claims of failure to warn,
negligence and fraudulent concealment. The jurors agreed with
the smokers’ claim that the manufacturers are liable for the
defective design of ventilated filter cigarettes.  The verdict resolves most of the liability questions in a
group of suits that were originally consolidated for trial
purposes in 2000. An earlier attempt to try the case ended in a
mistrial in 2011 after two weeks. If the plaintiffs had won,
jurors would have been asked to determine whether the companies
engaged in conduct that would support an award of punitive
damages.  Individual trials may be held in the cases based on
defective-design claims involving filtered cigarettes, Circuit
Judge Arthur Recht told lawyers today.  Officials at Richmond, Virginia-based Altria didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the verdict. Bryan
Hatchell, a spokesman for Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based
Reynolds American, and Ronald Milstein, Greensboro, North
Carolina-based Lorillard’s general counsel, also didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  The case is In Re Tobacco Litigation (Individual Personal
Injury Cases), 00-C-5000, West Virginia Circuit Court, Kanawha
County (Charleston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  