-- Lampard Agrees to One-Year Contract With Chelsea: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-15T06:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/lampard-agrees-to-one-year-contract-with-chelsea-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Lampard Deal  Frank Lampard  agreed to a new one-year contract that will
keep Chelsea’s all-time leading goalscorer at the Premier League
club next season, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Lampard, 34, is said to have significantly lowered his
financial demands and Chelsea has accepted the value of keeping
the midfielder, who is popular with fans, the newspaper added.  Giggs Role  Incoming Manchester United manager  David Moyes  is set to
offer  Ryan Giggs  a coaching role to harness his experience and
popularity among teammates, the  Daily Express reported .  Giggs, 39, signed a one-year contract extension in March,
though is likely to play fewer games in what is almost certain
to be his final season, the newspaper said. He has already
completed his coaching qualifications, the Express added.  Bayern Rules Out Rooney  Bayern Munich  has no interest in signing United forward
 Wayne Rooney , the Guardian reported, citing the German club’s
sporting director Matthias Sammer.  “I don’t know what Rooney would bring to the Bundesliga,”
the newspaper cited Sammer as saying. “I can’t answer that. I
can answer that we have great respect for Wayne Rooney, but
there has been no contact with him.”  Playoff Prospect  Chelsea and Arsenal may face a playoff to decide third
place in the Premier League, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The London rivals would end the season tied on points, goal
difference and goals for and against if Chelsea draws 0-0 with
Everton in its final game and Arsenal wins 2-1 at Newcastle, the
newspaper said. The league said last night that Chelsea’s home-and-away victories against the Gunners this season would not be
used as a tiebreaker, the Mirror added.  Trading Places  Liverpool will ask  Barcelona  for Cristian Tello in part
exchange for goalkeeper Pepe Reina, the  same paper reported .  Reds manager  Brendan Rodgers  doesn’t want to lose Reina,
though would be open to trading him if Barcelona adds Spain
under-21 forward Tello to any deal, the newspaper added.  Tello, 21, has a release clause of about 8.5 million pounds
($12.9 million), while Barcelona has indicated that it’s willing
to pay as much as 10 million pounds for Reina, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  