-- Anadarko’s Walker Named Chairman as Hackett’s Reign Ends
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-05-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/anadarko-s-walker-named-chairman-as-hackett-s-reign-ends.html
As  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  Chairman
Jim Hackett steps down and heads off to Harvard Divinity School,
Chief Executive Officer Al Walker’s biggest challenge is
convincing investors nothing will change at the $45 billion
global oil explorer.  Hackett, 59, who more than tripled Anadarko’s market value
during almost a decade of leadership, was succeeded last year as
CEO by Walker, who already was serving as president. Walker
combined those roles with chairman after the company’s annual
meeting yesterday, marking the first time he’ll be charting
future projects without Hackett.  “The strategy of this company is not changing,” Walker
said in an interview yesterday in The Woodlands,  Texas , where
Anadarko is based. “The culture’s not changing. And our
business model’s not changing.”  Walker takes on the dual role of CEO and chairman as other
U.S. energy producers, including  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ,
 Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  and  Hess Corp. (HES) , are separating the
jobs after shareholders protested poor stock performance.
Investors don’t have that complaint at Anadarko, which has seen
a 33 percent rise through yesterday during Walker’s CEO tenure.  “When Hackett came to this company, he did not have the
opportunity set that he is leaving for Al Walker,” said  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. “So Al Walker is
inheriting a much better company.”  Gheit, who has an outperform rating on Anadarko, said his
advice to Walker would be “don’t screw it up.”  Remaking Anadarko  Hackett remade Anadarko through deep-water exploration
projects in  Africa  and the Gulf of Mexico and more than $21
billion in acquisitions. Analysts are looking for Walker, 56, to
extract more value from the oil and natural gas assets Hackett
assembled, while helping the company move beyond an
environmental lawsuit and its association with  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 2010
Macondo oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  Anadarko boasts the largest market capitalization, other
than  ConocoPhillips (COP) , among U.S. oil and gas producers that don’t
have refineries or a chemical unit. In addition to expanding in
the deep-water offshore, it has seen surging U.S. output with
projects in the Wattenberg field of  Colorado , Eagle Ford Shale
in Texas and  Pennsylvania ’s Marcellus Shale.  The company is targeting compound annual production growth
of at least 5 percent to 7 percent through 2020, according to a
presentation in March. Some of its major projects are now
online, including off the coast of  Ghana  and in  Algeria . Off the
coast of Mozambique, Anadarko and its partners estimate they’ve
discovered as much as 65 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas.  Splashy Acquisitions  The thing “investors tend to worry about with new CEOs is
that they want to make a mark and make a splashy acquisition or
be more aggressive or show that the company is theirs in some
way,” said  James Sullivan , an analyst with Alembic Global
Advisors in  New York . So far, Walker has done a good job of
focusing on unlocking the value of the company’s asset base, he
said.  The company remains a favorite of analysts who track its
stock, with 29  ratings  equivalent to a buy and five equal to a
hold, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average 12-month price target for Anadarko from analysts tracked by
Bloomberg is $108.31, 22 percent more than the $88.77 closing
price yesterday.  Current Framework  In March 2012, the company told analysts it would seek to
make sure the value of the assets in its diversified model was
understood. Anadarko said then it might also look at further
asset sales and restructuring efforts.  Yesterday, Walker said “the current framework and
construction of the company is one that gives us a lot of
flexibility.” Walker said he has “no interest” in a possible
split of the company’s domestic and international assets. The
company continues to look to sell some assets, including its
Brazilian holdings and possibly 10 percent of its stake in a
deep-water project off the coast of  Mozambique .  Walker came to Anadarko in 2005. His titles have included
chief financial officer and chief operating officer. He
previously worked at UBS AG as an investment banker.  Walker’s succession has provided a sense of continuity,
said Sullivan, who has an overweight, or buy, rating on the
company’s shares and doesn’t own any. Splitting the chairman and
CEO roles can happen when shareholders want more oversight of a
chief executive, he said, while fusing the roles provides a
clearer line of leadership.  Hackett’s Arrival  Hackett, who retires next month, arrived at Anadarko in
December 2003 after the company had been missing production
targets. In 2006, he bulked up the company’s onshore and
offshore holdings with the acquisitions of Kerr-McGee Corp. and
Western Gas Resources Inc. In the  Gulf of Mexico , Anadarko,
which had a 25 percent stake in the Macondo well, eventually
paid BP $4 billion as part of a settlement.  Anadarko still is waiting to resolve potential
environmental liability in a case involving Tronox Inc. and the
cleanup of more than 2,700 sites. The chemical company was spun
off from Kerr-McGee, which Anadarko later acquired. The U.S.
government and other plaintiffs are seeking $25 billion. In a
May regulatory filing, Anadarko said it doesn’t see a loss as
probable. Potential costs from the lawsuit may be as much as
$1.4 billion, Walker said yesterday.  In March, Anadarko said Hackett would attend Harvard
Divinity School after his retirement to become better prepared
to write, speak and teach about faith and leadership.  “You have, I think, an outstanding CEO who will now become
your chairman of the board,” Hackett told attendees at
yesterday’s annual meeting, adding that Anadarko has a
“fantastic” portfolio of assets and employees. “God bless all
of you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  