-- Manatt, Jones Day, Howrey, Ropes & Gray: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-15T12:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/manatt-jones-day-howrey-ropes-gray-business-of-law.html
Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP
introduced Manatt Digital Media, an entity combining legal,
consulting and investment services for digital-media,
entertainment and advertising clients. It will be led by Los
Angles partner T. Hale Boggs.  Peter Csathy, formerly the chief executive officer of
Sorenson Media Inc., was hired as CEO of Manatt Digital Media
Ventures, a part of the platform that will provide non-legal
business consulting and evaluate investments for the firm’s
venture fund.  “We aim to disrupt the traditional legal model by offering
a unique range of services, depth of relationships, remarkable
access to artists, and unsurpassed commitment to the needs of
our clients,” Boggs said in a statement. “We are in a period
of exciting and transformative content distribution and customer
engagement that demands a re-imagined, more holistic approach to
client service.”  Boggs, a partner in Manatt’s capital markets,
corporate/finance and venture capital practice areas, opened the
firm’s Silicon Valley office in 1998 and helped establish its
 San Francisco  office in 2007. He said in an interview that the
concept of the new entity came from a strategy session that
looked to the firm’s health-care group, Manatt Health Solutions.  “We’ve done that very successfully and it’s become a
significant revenue driver,” Boggs said. “We thought of other
areas where that made sense and digital media was right at the
top of the list.”  New York  partner Linda Goldstein, chairwoman of Manatt’s
advertising, marketing and media practice, will also help lead
the practice.  “The explosion of digital media demands new solutions as
well as deep experience in the ever-increasing complexity of
government oversight,” Goldstein said in a statement. “It is
critical that global brands and emerging companies alike be
attuned to what can make or break an otherwise brilliant
strategy.”  Also part of the new entity is the firm’s venture fund,
which has invested in more than 90 companies since it began in
2000. The fund makes direct investments and co-investments and
buys limited partnership interests, often in the firm’s clients.  Manatt, Phelps has 400 lawyers and professionals at nine
offices in the U.S. and  Mexico .  Moves  Projects Lawyer Bill Napier Joins Jones Day in Sydney  Jones Day  hired Bill Napier in Sydney as a partner in the
projects and infrastructure practice. Napier joins the firm
after 22 years at Herbert Smith Freehills.  Napier advises clients on project development and
acquisition and debt and equity finance, with a focus on the
infrastructure, government procurement and utilities sectors,
the firm said.  Napier’s work has included handling the $2.3 billion
privatization of the Sydney Desalination Plant and the privately
financed Sydney 2000 Olympics projects, including the stadium
and the athletes’ village, the firm said.  Napier’s hire follows the firm’s recent addition of
projects partner John Cooper, who joined Jones Day in February
after 26 years at Allens.  “We believe that there will be more projects and
infrastructure work over the next few years and in response, we
are building our practice with  Australia ’s highest caliber
project lawyers,” Chris Ahern, partner-in-charge of Jones Day’s
Sydney Office, said in a statement. “With both Bill and John,
we now have two of Australia’s top infrastructure, construction,
and procurement lawyers and expect to attract many more projects
from Australian and International companies and governments as
the global economy recovers in this sector.”  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers in 36 offices
worldwide.  Drinker Biddle Adds New Partners to Head Information Practice  Bennett B. Borden and Jay Brudz joined Drinker Biddle &
Reath LLP as partners in the  Washington  office, where they will
chair the firm’s information governance and electronic discovery
practice as well as help oversee the firm’s ediscovery
subsidiary, Drinker Discovery Solutions.  They were previously co-chairs of the electronic discovery
and information governance section at Williams Mullen, the firm
said.  “Bennett and Jay will be a tremendous addition to the
firm,” Alfred W. Putnam Jr., chairman of Drinker Biddle, said
in a statement. “Between the hiring of this impressive pair and
the launch of Drinker Discovery Solutions, Drinker is defining
itself as a go-to firm for ediscovery and information
governance.”  Borden focuses his practice on electronic discovery and
information governance and conducts both offensive and defensive
discovery in complex litigation cases. He also counsels clients
on the establishment of information governance and records
management policies and advises on data privacy, security and
regulatory compliance, the firm said.  Brudz advises clients on the building and management of
discovery operations, and helps them address internal compliance
and Foreign Corrupt Practices Act investigations. He also works
with clients to develop enterprise-level information governance
best practices, the firm said.  Drinker Biddle has 650 lawyers in 11 U.S. offices as well
as a London office.  Firm News  Howrey Trustee Sues Jones Day, Hogan Lovells, Pillsbury  Bankrupt  law firm  Howrey LLP’s Chapter 11 trustee Allan B. Diamond, of Diamond McCarthy LLP, sued Jones Day,  Hogan Lovells 
LLP and Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP May 10, seeking to
recover revenues and profits from lawyers who left the firm as
it was dissolving.  “In a classic self-dealing transaction, Howrey’s former
partners attempted to shield themselves and their successor
firms (including Jones Day) from unfinished business claims by
executing a so-called Jewel Waiver on the eve of Howrey’s
dissolution. But the Jewel Waiver was a textbook fraudulent
transfer,” according to the court papers in the complaint
against Jones Day.  Diamond said the Howrey partners approved the waiver at the
same time as they decided to dissolve the firm, when Howrey was
already insolvent. He said they did so in order to benefit
themselves and their successor firms.  Jones Day hired more than 20 former Howrey partners from
offices in  California , Washington and  Europe ; Hogan Lovells
hired five U.S. partners in California while Pillsbury hired
nine in California and Washington, according to the papers.  “This lawsuit is another improper attempt by a defunct law
firm to excuse its own mismanagement and to profit from the
efforts of law firms like Jones Day that were retained by
clients to handle matters abandoned by the defunct firm,”
Jones Day litigation partner Bob Mittelstaedt said in an e-mailed statement. “We are committed to defending against this
type of claim until the courts recognize, as we are confident
they will, that the claims are without merit.”  Pillsbury and Hogan Lovells didn’t immediately respond to
e-mails seeking comment on the hires.  Once known for expertise in antitrust and intellectual
property law, Howrey filed under Chapter 11 in June 2011
following an involuntary filing in April 2011.  The bankruptcy is in San Francisco, where the firm had one
of its 19 offices. The firm closed in March 2011. At one time,
the firm had more than 700 lawyers.  The case is In re Howrey LLP, 11-bk-31376,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Video  DynCorp’s ‘Strategic’ Defense in Drug Crop Spraying Suit  Eric Lasker, partner at Hollingsworth LLP, talks with
Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about successfully defending
DynCorp International Inc. in U.S. federal court litigation with
several thousand Ecuadorian citizens over claims of widespread
environmental damages and alleged exposure to toxins through an
aerial herbicide spraying operation and anti-narcotics effort
known as “Plan  Colombia .”  Lasker, in this Rainmakers episode, also discusses the
differences in strategy between DynCorp’s case and  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ’s environmental suit over oil pollution in the Amazon
rainforest. The  oil company  was ordered to pay as much as $19.2
billion in compensatory and punitive damages for alleged dumping
by Texaco.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  Blogger: Legal Profession Will Split in Two: Video  Elie Mystal, editor at Above the Law, talks with Bloomberg
Law’s Lee Pacchia about the future of the legal profession.  In the next 10 years, there will be two tiers, Mystal said.
One group won’t ever make partner but will perform the manual
labor and make a stable middle-class living. The other tier will
be the traditional partner-track associate position.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  Litigation  Ex-BP Engineer Claims U.S. Withheld Evidence in Spill Case  A former  BP Plc (BP/)  engineer charged in the first criminal case
arising from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill asked a judge to
sanction U.S. prosecutors for withholding evidence that he says
might clear him.  The U.S. charged Kurt Mix with two counts of obstruction of
justice last year, alleging he deleted from his mobile phone
text-message strings related to the company’s effort to estimate
the size of the spill. Mix, who has pleaded not guilty, is
facing a June 10 federal trial.  Prosecutors failed to turn over evidence requested by the
defense, so-called Brady material, that Mix might use to dispute
government allegations, his lawyers said in court papers. They
asked U.S. District Judge Stanwood Duval at a hearing yesterday
in  New Orleans  to sanction the government, suggesting in court
filings a range of actions including rejection of certain
evidence or arguments, or complete dismissal of the indictment.  “The facts make it abundantly clear that these prosecutors
have violated Brady,” court orders and ethics rules, Joan McPhee, a partner at Ropes & Gray LLP and an attorney for Mix,
told Duval yesterday. “They have done so by knowingly and
intentionally suppressing evidence in their direct personal
possession” that contradicts their obstruction charges against
Mix, McPhee said.  U.S. prosecutors said in court papers they turned over all
relevant evidence.  “The defendant’s accusations of government misconduct are
demonstrably false,” Justice Department lawyers said in a May 6
filing asking Duval to reject Mix’s motion for sanctions.  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig in April 2010 killed 11 workers and started millions of
barrels of crude leaking into the Gulf. It also set off hundreds
of lawsuits against BP, its partners and contractors on the
project.  The case is U.S. v. Mix, 12-cr-00171, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Monsanto Wins Seed Case as High Court Backs Patent Rights  The U.S.  Supreme Court  bolstered  Monsanto Co. (MON) ’s ability to
control the use of its genetically modified seeds, ruling that
companies can block efforts to circumvent patents on self-replicating technologies. Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale &  Dorr
LLP’s  Seth Waxman  argued the case before the Supreme Court.  The justices unanimously upheld an $84,456 award Monsanto
won in a lawsuit against Vernon Hugh Bowman, an Indiana farmer.
Rather than buying herbicide-resistant soybean seeds from a
Monsanto-authorized dealer, Bowman used harvested soybeans
containing the technology to plant his crops.  The case may affect makers of live vaccines, genetically
modified salmon, and bacteria strains used in medical research,
potentially helping makers of those products restrict use beyond
the first generation. Even so, the court said its ruling was a
narrow one that didn’t resolve all issues concerning patents on
self-replicating technologies.  “It’s a huge victory for innovation. The Court made clear
that strong patent protection is critical to preserving the
incentives for innovation that Congress intended. The clarity --
and unanimity -- of the decision should put to rest any
questions about the role of the patent system in protecting
technologies like Monsanto’s,” Waxman said in a statement.  The case centered on a technology that has helped make
Monsanto the world’s largest seed company, with $14.7 billion in
annual revenue, as well as a prime target for opponents of
genetically modified food.  St. Louis-based Monsanto inserts genes into crops, letting
them withstand application of the herbicide Roundup. Farmers who
buy so-called Roundup Ready seeds must accept restrictions on
their use, agreeing not to save the harvest for planting in a
later season.  Monsanto has sued 146 U.S. farmers for saving Roundup Ready
soybeans since 1997, winning all 11 cases that went to trial,
the company says.  Bowman’s lawyer, Mark Walters, said in an e-mail that the
ruling “makes infringers out of 95 percent of America’s soybean
farmers, dependent on the grace of a single company to avoid
liability.”  WilmerHale represented Monsanto before the Federal Circuit
as well, with Paul Wolfson arguing the case. Partners Wolfson,
Greg Lantier and Christopher Babbitt assisted on the Supreme
Court briefs.  The case is Bowman v. Monsanto, 11-796, U.S. Supreme Court,
Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 