-- Land Securities Profit Climbs as Property Vacancies Drop
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-05-15T16:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/land-securities-full-year-profit-increases-as-vacancies-decrease.html
Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) , the U.K.’s
largest real estate investment trust, said full-year profit
increased as the company secured tenants for empty properties.
The shares rose the most in 16 months.  Net income rose to 533 million pounds ($810 million), or
68.1 pence a share, from 522.9 million pounds, or 67.4 pence, a
year earlier, the London-based company said in a statement
today. Adjusted net asset value climbed to 903 pence a share
from 863 pence last year.  Land Securities has 8.7 million square feet (810,000 square
meters) of offices and shops in London, where the value of
income-producing properties rose 7.4 percent in the first
quarter, according to Investment Property Databank Ltd. The
company and Canary Wharf Group Plc are building an  office tower 
nicknamed the Walkie-Talkie in the  City of London  district as
well as offices and shops in the Victoria area to capture higher
rents and values amid a shortage of space under development.  The Walkie-Talkie “is now 56 percent pre-let or in
solicitors’ hands, a year ahead of completion, demonstrating
clear demand for the right space in the right location,” Chief
Executive Officer Robert Noel said in the statement. “Our
relentless asset management has reduced voids even further.”  Land Securities rose 5.4 percent in London trading, the
biggest gain since January 2012. The shares closed at 985 pence,
lifting this year’s increase to 21 percent and giving the
company a market value of 7.71 billion pounds.  Beat Estimates  The company’s adjusted net asset value of 903 pence beat
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s estimates amid higher-than-expected
profit from the development pipeline, analysts including Harm Meijer said in a note to investors. JPMorgan has a neutral
rating on Land Securities.  The company sees more value in development than investment
at this time because there are few competitors, Noel said today
on a conference call.  “The development market for us at the moment is lower risk
because very few people can do it,” he said. “There such a
lack of development finance. We don’t really want to compete in
the investment market because we can make so much more money in
development.”  Revenue rose to 736.6 million pounds from 671.5 million
pounds a year earlier, the company said. Revenue profit, a
pretax measure that excludes one-time items, fell 2.9 percent to
290.7 million pounds as asset sales reduced recurring income.
Like-for-like vacancies fell to 2 percent from 2.8 percent.  Adjusted earnings per share declined 4.4 percent to 36.8
pence, exceeding the 35.8 pence average of 17 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  A Land Securities and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board
joint venture will begin developing a 768 million pound office
and retail development in Victoria in June. The company and
Frogmore Real Estate Partners Investment Management Ltd. in
January won planning permission to build stores on  London ’s
Oxford Street, the U.K.’s busiest shopping strip.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  