-- Angola to Sell More Than 30 State Companies to Bolster Economy
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-05-15T11:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/angola-to-sell-more-than-30-state-companies-to-bolster-economy.html
Angola ,  Africa ’s largest crude oil
producer behind  Nigeria , plans to sell about 33 state-owned
companies over the next five years to increase efficiency and
cut costs, Economy Minister Abrahao Gourgel said.  The formerly Marxist southwest African country has about 90
government-run businesses, from newspapers to diamond producers.
National petroleum company Sonangol EP, which isn’t for sale, is
the largest state enterprise, with profit of $1.24 billion last
year. It dominated the economy, which the  International Monetary
Fund  says depends on oil for 40 percent of its output, during a
27-year civil war that ended in 2002. Angola needs to diversify
its economy, Gourgel said in an interview last week.  “The war, a limited internal market and the lack of
capacity of those who bought state companies in the past meant
only a few successes in areas like beer and light industry,”
Gourgel said in  Luanda , the capital. “The new strategy is to
sell non-essential companies, reduce their costs and the amount
of government subsidies.”  Companies on the block are mostly small- and medium-sized,
he said, including Bricomil SARL, a construction company  owned 
by the state through Sonangol, two government banks and the
national insurer, Ensa Seguros de Angola SA. Gourgel didn’t say
how much the sales are expected to raise.  The disposal of any state financial companies would be run
by the central bank and the  Finance Ministry , said Gourgel, a
former Governor of  Banco Nacional de Angola . The Transport
Ministry is overseeing the amalgamation of the country’s railway
lines under one company within five years, he said.  Mining Stakes  The government will probably maintain its stakes in mining
companies because they need the state’s financial backing to
start large-scale projects, he said.  The state’s largest mining company is the national diamond
producer, Endiama EP, which owns about half of most projects.
Angola, the fifth-largest diamond producer by value in 2011,
sold stones valued at $1.16 billion that year, according to the
 Kimberley Process , an international group with 54 participants
representing 80 countries.  The government is “going slow” on implementing new rules
for public-private partnerships after approving a new law last
year, he said. Some senior members expressed skepticism on what
the government could achieve, citing disappointing results for
similar arrangements in  Portugal  and the U.K, he said.  Insurance Opportunities  Potential PPP candidates so far include small dams
producing electricity and the ports of Cabinda, a northern
province, and Lobito in the south. He declined to say which
companies were in the running for the contracts.  Insurance company Ensa has weathered an influx of new
private and foreign competitors as its former monopoly eroded in
certain areas, such as offshore oil projects, while new
insurance markets opened in areas such as housing, Gourgel said.  The $114 billion economy is forecast to expand 7.1 percent
this year from 7.4 percent in 2012, according to the government
and budget documents.  Edel EP , the state-owned electricity distribution company,
showed the strongest transformation compared with other
government companies over the past year after improvements in
accounting practices, internal organization and service
delivery, Gourgel said. Blackouts are common several times a day
across Luanda.  “We still need to make some investments and review
tariffs,” he said. “But we want this internal change to become
a visible improvement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  