-- Angola Plans Customs Levy Changes to Protect Local Industries
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-05-15T08:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/angola-plans-customs-levy-changes-to-protect-local-industries.html
Angola ,  Africa ’s second-largest crude
oil producer, plans to increase customs tariffs to protect local
business while eliminating duties on supplies for industry.  The new code, which may be implemented in the next six
months, will raise  import taxes  on items such as beer, water,
soft drinks, agricultural products and livestock to 50 percent
from as high as 30 percent, senior customs officials said in an
interview in Luanda, the capital.  Nigeria , the continent’s
largest oil producer, collected  $4.7 billion  in 2011 customs
revenue compared with Angola’s $3.4 billion that year.  “We need to protect national production,” Garcia Afonso,
head of the Tariffs and Trade Department at Angola’s  National
Customs Service , said May 6. “We’ve identified some goods for
protection while there will be tax exemptions for raw materials
used in industrial production.”  The measures come as the southwest African country
modernizes tax collection and customs to cut costs and meet
norms set by the World Customs Organization. The new tariffs
program may help the government’s goal to diversify the economy,
which relies on oil exports for about 40 percent of output and
70 percent of government income.  Goods can generally be moved through customs within 48
hours after steps were consolidated and moved into an electronic
format a decade ago, followed by scanners in 2007 and the
licensing of import-exporters by the Trade Ministry in 2010.  Implemention of a program to help importers classify
merchandise and determine how they should pay is under way, said
Nicholas Neto, head of the Policy and Procedures Department.  Petroleum Exemptions  The raw-materials exemptions won’t necessarily apply to the
oil and gas industry, which has its own arrangement with the
country’s Service for Migration and Foreigners and contracts
with the state, Neto said.  Discussions are under way at state petroleum company
Sonangol EP, the Ministry of Petroleum and among industry
officials about whether to reduce the number of exemptions and
trim the current 90 days that  oil companies  are allowed to
finish a customs declaration, he said.  The customs service is focusing less on revenue collection
and more on border control, he said.  “Last year we began a canine sniffer program for drugs,
money and weapons with 27 dogs,” Neto said. “We opened labs in
January to test merchandise such as meat and fish.”  Authorities are looking to model improvements on practices
in the U.S. and countries within the Southern Africa Development
Community and the Community of Portuguese Language Countries,
said Osvaldo Michinge, head of the Customs Legal Office.  The total workforce may increase from 1,700 to 2,250 as the
service increases staff at border posts to process more cargo,
Michinge said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  