-- LanzaTech Plans to Raise $80 Million for Waste Gas-to-Biofuel
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-05-15T14:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/lanzatech-plans-to-raise-80-million-for-waste-gas-to-biofuel.html
LanzaTech NZ Ltd., a closely held
developer of transport fuels and chemicals from waste gases,
plans to start raising $60 million to $80 million from  venture
capital  and strategic investors this year to develop technology.  The company is developing projects with Baosteel Group
Corp. and Shougang Group in  China  to use emissions from their
steel mills to make ethanol for vehicles, said Jennifer Holmgren, chief executive officer of the Auckland, New Zealand-based company. Holmgren will consider an initial share sale once
a plant is running, probably in 2015, she said.  “We started our business development in China because it
has 60 percent of the world’s steel industry,” Holmgren said by
phone. “We have relationships with steel mills in  India  and
 Korea  but in terms of moving those to commercial projects I
would say they’re at least six to 12 months behind.” The plants
are funded by Baosteel and Shougang.  Governments are pushing fuel suppliers to increase the
amount of biofuel in their mix as they strive to cut pollution.
 Europe  has a 10 percent target for biofuels in transport by
2020. The U.S. requires gasoline and diesel producers to blend
36 billion gallons (136 billion liters) of biofuel a year into
their products by 2022.  A 30 million gallon-a-year plant to convert gases from
 steel mills  into ethanol costs about $80 million, Holmgren said.
The commercial plant it’s building for Baosteel will produce 10
to 12 million gallons a year and for Shougang, about 25 million
gallons a year.  Jet Fuel  LanzaTech’s fuel so far has not been sold, having instead
been used to test and demonstrate that it’s identical to corn-based ethanol that is already used in cars, said Holmgren.
LanzaTech also has converted some of the ethanol into clean jet
fuel and tests have found it to meet all the properties of
petroleum-based fuel, she said.  ASTM International, the U.S. technical standards body that
in 2011 gave approval for airlines to start flying passenger
planes using fuel made from organic matter, is certifying
alcohol-based  jet fuel . It’s expected to grant approval by the
end of 2014. That’s when LanzaTech will be able to start selling
its clean jet fuel commercially, Holmgren said.  Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. probably will be the first
user of LanzaTech’s biofuel following an agreement they signed
in October 2011. Virgin in 2008 became the first airline to fly
a plane using biofuel from babassu nuts and coconut oil blended
with kerosene.  LanzaTech raised about $60 million in January 2012 from
Petroliam Nasional Bhd., the Malaysian state oil company known
as Petronas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  