-- Argentina Challenges EU Biodiesel Rules on Market Access Concern
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-05-15T19:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/argentina-challenges-eu-biodiesel-rules-on-market-access-concern.html
Argentina  has filed a challenge
against the European Union with the  World Trade Organization 
amid signals the trade bloc may limit biodisel exports from the
South American nation.  The complaint refers to EU measures to promote green energy
and control greenhouse-gas emissions as well as supports for its
biodiesel industry, the WTO said today on its  website .  The EU is studying whether to levy import tariffs on
countries including Argentina and  Indonesia  that may be
exporting biodiesel with state aid like it did for U.S.-based
ethanol producers in February, Roberto Rodriguez Labastida, a
London-based analyst at Bloomberg’s New Energy Finance, said
today by phone.  “The EU is now collating data on how much specific
Argentinean companies are exporting so that if it decides that
there’s a real threat of dumping it can quickly introduce
measures to counter them,” Labastida said.  The EU has 60 days to address the complaint, according to
the statement. The WTO will publish additional information on
the complaint in the next few days, it said.  Argentina levies an export tariff on soybean that sometimes
is lower than on biodiesel, the fuel that it’s processed into,
Labastida said. That may lead to lower prices of the vegetable
oil, which offers an advantage to Argentinean biodiesel
refineries over European refineries that use the feedstock.  Argentina, the world’s largest exporter of soybean
biodiesel,  complained  to the WTO in August over a decision by
 Spain  to just use EU fuel to meet quotas for biofuels used in
transport. Spain later reversed that decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  