-- Arkansas Ordered to Face Lawsuit Challenging Abortion Law
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/arkansas-ordered-to-face-lawsuit-challenging-abortion-law.html
Two  Arkansas  abortion providers in
Little Rock won a judge’s approval to proceed with a challenge
to the constitutionality of a state law making it illegal with
some exceptions to abort a pregnancy after 12 weeks.  U.S. District Judge Susan Webber Wright in Little Rock in a
ruling yesterday denied a request by the state’s attorney
general to dismiss the lawsuit. The judge said the two doctors
have standing to sue even though the law hasn’t gone into effect
and they have sufficiently alleged the law infringes women’s
constitutional rights.  The doctors have presented a “controversy that is ripe for
review,” the judge said.  In North Dakota, the Center for Reproductive Rights
yesterday sought court permission to challenge a new law
mandating abortion providers have hospital admitting privileges.  The measure, scheduled to take effect Aug. 1, requires all
doctors who perform abortions to have privileges at a hospital
within 30 miles of their facility and permission to perform
those same procedures at the hospital.  The Arkansas case was filed April 16 by Louis Jerry Edwards
and Tom Tvedten, who are doctors affiliated with Little Rock
Family Planning Services in the state’s capital city. Violation
of the law could result in a doctor losing his medical license,
according to their complaint.  The Arkansas Human Heartbeat Protection Act, known as Act
301, is scheduled to go into effect Aug. 16. It prohibits the
abortion of a viable fetus, defined as having a detectable
heartbeat, after 12 weeks unless the pregnancy is the result of
rape or incest or the mother’s life is in danger.  Detectable Heartbeat  The doctors said that at 12 weeks, a fetus has a detectable
heartbeat while still being months away from viability, and that
20 percent of the abortions in Arkansas take place after the
12th week, according to the ruling.  “The court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts
sufficient to state a claim that the provision of Act 301 that
prohibits abortions at 12 weeks gestation when a fetal heartbeat
is detected impermissibly infringes a woman’s Fourteenth
Amendment right to choose to terminate a pregnancy before
viability,” the judge said.  Assistant Attorney General Colin Jorgensen didn’t
immediately return a call to his office after regular business
hours seeking comment on the ruling.  In North Dakota, the Center for Reproductive Rights already
is suing the state on behalf of a Fargo women’s clinic over a
rule requiring contracts with back-up doctors.  Yesterday’s request to challenge the new law was filed by
lawyers for the Red River Women’s Clinic with Cass County Court
Judge Wickham Corwin in Fargo.  “Its purpose is to shut down the clinic, the sole abortion
facility in the state,” according to the proposed supplemental
complaint filed yesterday with the center’s bid for permission
to pursue the claim.  State Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem’s press office
didn’t immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on
the filing.  Governor Jack Dalrymple signed the bill March 26.  ‘‘The added requirement that the hospital privileges must
include allowing abortions to take place in their facility
greatly increases the chances that this measure will face a
court challenge,’’ Dalrymple said then in a press statement.  ‘‘Nevertheless, it is a legitimate and new question for the
courts regarding a precise restriction on doctors who perform
abortions,’’ the governor said.  That same day, Dalrymple also signed legislation banning
almost all abortions after the detection of a fetal heartbeat,
potentially as soon as the sixth week of a pregnancy,
acknowledging it too would likely face legal challenge.  ‘‘This bill is nevertheless a legitimate attempt by a state
legislature to discover the boundaries of Roe v. Wade,’’ he
said, referring to the 1973 U.S. Supreme Court decision
establishing a woman’s constitutional right to an abortion
before a fetus is able to live outside the womb.  Violation of the heart-beat rule would constitute a felony,
while a breach of the hospital admitting privileges rule would
be a misdemeanor.  Corwin last month presided over a trial of the clinic’s
challenge to the back-up doctor law and other restrictions
applied to so-called medication abortions, according to the
court’s electronic docket. He hasn’t issued a written decision.  The case in Arkansas is Edwards v. Beck, 13-cv-00224, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Arkansas (Little Rock).  The North Dakota case is MKB Management Corp., doing
business as Red River Women’s Clinic v. Burdick, 09-2011-cv-02205, District Court for the East Central Judicial District,
Cass County, North Dakota (Fargo).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  