-- Arms to Syria Opposition Authorized in Proposed U.S. Bill
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-05-15T22:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/arms-to-syria-opposition-authorized-in-proposed-u-s-legislation.html
U.S. lawmakers introduced legislation
that would authorize President  Barack Obama  to provide arms to
the Syrian opposition, even as support for the rebels weakened
at the  United Nations .  “Groups that have gone through a thorough vetting process
which meet certain criteria on human rights, terrorism, and
nonproliferation would be eligible,” Senator  Robert Menendez ,
of  New Jersey , the Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s
Democratic chairman, and Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee , its
senior Republican, said yesterday in a statement. “A
presidential waiver is included allowing for the distribution of
anti-aircraft defensive systems with strict limitations.”  While Obama administration officials have said they are
evaluating all options in Syria, the president and his national
security advisers have expressed reluctance to arm rebel groups
partly because some of the militant factions have ties to al-Qaeda.  “Understandably there’s a desire for easy answers,” Obama
said on May 7. “We want to make sure that we are acting
deliberately.”  Lawmakers have pressed the administration to take stronger
action after a U.S. intelligence assessment last month that
chemical weapons may have been used in the conflict. Obama has
backed the UN’s frustrated efforts to get into  Syria  to evaluate
conflicting reports on chemical weapons.  UN Vote  A symbolic vote in the world body’s General Assembly
yesterday reflected declining support for the Syrian opposition
as the two-year uprising against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime drags on.  The assembly voted 107-12 for a text drafted by Qatar that
designated a disorganized political grouping of rebels, the
Syrian National Coalition, as “effective representative
interlocutors needed for a political transition.” Fifty-nine
countries abstained.  A comparable resolution in August garnered 133 votes, more
than two-thirds of the General Assembly, where each of the 193
UN member nations is entitled to one vote.  The Syrian National Coalition welcomed the UN vote,
describing it on the group’s Facebook page as sending a “clear
message by the international community for Assad’s regime to
stop its savage oppression of the revolution.”  The measure was promoted primarily by Sunni Muslim
monarchies and blamed Assad for most of the bloodshed, accusing
his regime of threatening to use chemical weapons against his
own people.  Abuses Cited  The failure to attract more votes highlights a drop in
support for the opposition in the face of questions about abuses
by some militia members and the influence of al-Qaeda. The
Syrian regime routinely describes the rebels as “terrorists.”  Reports from Syria have cited alleged abuses by both sides
of the conflict, and there are conflicting accounts on the
possible use of sarin gas and who may have been responsible.  Menendez and Corker said the Foreign Relations Committee
will act on their measure on May 21. Among the provisions is a
transition fund of $250 million a year through fiscal 2015 to
help the civilian opposition in early planning to run the
country if they defeat Assad’s regime.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  New York  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  