-- Sex-Assault Cases Taken From Commanders Under Proposal
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-05-16T16:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/army-sergeant-said-to-get-soldier-to-work-as-prostitute.html
U.S. military commanders would lose
authority over sexual-assault cases and other major crimes under
legislation introduced today by lawmakers from both parties
responding to expanding allegations of wrongdoing.  “Clearly our system is broken,” Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a  New York  Democrat, said today at a news conference
where she was flanked by senators and House members backing
legislation to let military prosecutors who are outside the
chain of command decide whether to take cases to a court-martial.  The proposal -- opposed by military commanders for years
and resisted as recently as last week by Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel -- is gaining momentum in response to reports of sexual
assaults and harassment in the armed services, including two
cases involving service members who led programs that are
supposed to prevent and respond to such attacks.  Amid demands for action, President  Barack Obama  summoned
Hagel and the military’s Joint Chiefs of Staff to the White
House this afternoon to discuss the issue.  In the latest case, the Pentagon said on May 14 that a
soldier who worked on sexual-assault prevention for a battalion
of the Army’s III Corps was suspended from all duties.  The Army sergeant first class, who wasn’t identified by the
Pentagon, is being investigated by special agents from the Army
Criminal Investigation Command for “pandering, abusive sexual
contact, assault and maltreatment of subordinates,” the Defense
Department said in a statement.  Prostitution Allegation  The sergeant first class based at Fort Hood,  Texas , got a
private first class to prostitute herself with another military
service member, according to a congressional aide.  After that, the soldier tried to coax another woman in the
military to do the same, according to the aide who was familiar
with the matter and asked not to be identified because he wasn’t
authorized to speak with the media. The second woman resisted
and lodged a complaint a month ago, according to the aide.  In addition, a lieutenant colonel who led the Air Force’s
sexual-assault prevention office faces criminal charges on
allegations that he groped a woman in a parking lot not far from
the Pentagon.  U.S. Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs, yesterday called the issue of sexual assault “a
crisis” for the armed forces.  ‘Losing Confidence’  “We’re losing the confidence of the women who serve that
we can solve this problem,” Dempsey said during a return flight
from North Atlantic Treaty Organization meetings in Brussels,
according to the Pentagon’s American Forces Press Service.  The legislation introduced by Gillibrand would let
independent military prosecutors decide whether to refer to a
court-martial any crime punishable by a year or more in prison,
comparable to felonies in civilian courts, the senator said. She
said crimes unique to the military, such as going absent without
leave, would remain subject to prosecution within the chain of
command.  “We must ensure justice is swift and certain for the
criminals who perpetrate these crimes,” said Senator Susan Collins, a Maine Republican who was one of 11 other senators
announcing support for Gillibrand’s proposal. “It is clear to
me that legislation is needed and our bill is an important step
in the right direction.”  Under military law, commanders decide whether to bring
charges in sexual-assault cases, choose the jury and later have
the authority to reduce or overturn sentences.  Hagel’s Change  Last week, Hagel told reporters he opposed removing sexual-assault cases from the chain of command.  “The ultimate authority has to remain within the command
structure,”  Hagel said. This week, spokesman George Little
signaled a potential reversal, indicating that all options were
under consideration.  Hagel responded to the Fort Hood case by ordering the
military services to retrain all sexual-assault prevention
personnel and military recruiters, according to Little.  “These latest allegations of criminal behavior by yet
another sexual-assault prevention and response coordinator are
appalling and show the need for fundamental reforms,” Nancy
Parrish, president of Protect Our Defenders, a victims’ support
group, said in a statement. “The Pentagon is responsible for
failing to effectively govern its personnel.”  In the case surfacing earlier this month, the head of the
Air Force’s Sexual Assault Prevention and Response branch was
arrested in Arlington,  Virginia , on a sexual-assault charge.  Lieutenant Colonel Jeffrey Krusinski “approached a female
victim in a parking lot and grabbed her breasts and buttocks”
on May 5, according to an Arlington County police  report .
Krusinski didn’t enter a plea at his May 9 arraignment, at which
his trial was set for July 18.  Krusinski has been removed from his job leading the sexual-assault-prevention unit pending an investigation of the
incident, according to an Air Force statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  