-- Hartford Said to Seek Sale of Japanese Annuity Unit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-05-15T21:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/hartford-said-to-seek-sale-of-japanese-annuity-unit.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) , the insurance company pruning operations after an activist
investor urged it to split up last year, hired  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
to seek a buyer for its Japanese business, people with knowledge
of the matter said.  The people asked not to be identified because the process
is private. The Japan unit had about 400,000 variable annuities
contracts invested in stocks and bonds worth $27 billion as of
March 31, according to a  presentation  to investors on April 11.
Hartford had another $67 billion of annuities in the U.S. and
U.K., according to the presentation.  Hartford has been retreating from life insurance and
annuities under Chief Executive Officer Liam McGee to focus on
property-casualty. Billionaire  John Paulson , formerly Hartford’s
largest shareholder, pressed McGee to spin off property and
casualty from its life-insurance business in February 2012 to
increase  shareholder value . Annuities had saddled the firm with
ballooning liabilities during the financial crisis.  The Hartford, Connecticut-based company stopped selling
annuities overseas in 2009 and sold its  retirement plans  and
individual life-insurance businesses this year.  Shannon Lapierre , a spokeswoman for Hartford, declined to
comment, as did Mayura Hooper, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank.  Hartford gave its Japanese annuities business a so-called
market consistent value, a measure tied to  cash flow , claims and
expenses, of negative $1.2 billion as of March 31, according to
the presentation to investors last month. Market consistent
value “does not reflect the price a buyer would pay or receive
for the block,” the presentation shows.  Unclear Value  Selling the Japanese business could be difficult because it
is unclear how much it is worth, said Nina Gupta, an analyst
with Portales Partners in New York.  “They are shrinking it on their own at a fairly decent
pace,” she said. “I don’t think they would sell it unless the
pricing is very attractive.”  Variable annuities are insurance contracts with payouts
tied to the performance of bond and stock markets.  Sun Life
Financial Inc. (SLF)  and other insurers have struck deals to divest
annuities because low rates have made it costlier for them to
cover the guarantees embedded in such contracts.  Beth Bombara, who oversees the annuities units at Hartford,
told investors last month that the firm would consider divesting
annuities at the right price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  