-- S&P 500 Extends Record High While Euro Slumps on Economy
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-05-15T20:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/asian-stocks-gain-led-by-japanese-shares-won-palladium-retreat.html
Stocks rose, sending the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to another record, as weakness in manufacturing
and a drop in wholesale inflation fueled bets the  Federal
Reserve  will be in no rush to scale back stimulus. The euro slid
as the region’s recession deepened.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.5 percent to
1,658.78 at 4 p.m. in New York, reaching an all-time high for
the ninth time in 10 days. The yield on 10-year Treasuries slid
three basis points to 1.94 percent, retreating from a two-month
high. The Dollar Index jumped to the highest level since July as
the euro slid to a six-week low. Gold and silver tumbled more
than 2 percent to help lead commodities lower.  U.S. industrial production slid in April by the most in
eight months and manufacturing in the  New York  region
unexpectedly shrank in May as factories received fewer orders
and sales stagnated. The U.S. producer-price index declined 0.7
percent, the biggest decrease since February 2010, after falling
0.6 percent in March, according to a Labor Department report.
The euro-area’s recession extended into a record sixth quarter.  “We’re certainly seeing slowing manufacturing growth in
the U.S. that parallels very weak growth overseas,” Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more than $20 billion as chief
investment strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in
 Cleveland , said by phone. “At some point the market has to
decide whether the enthusiasm over the Fed’s continued easing is
truly offsetting all the signs of economic weakness that we
continue to see.”  U.S. Markets  Among U.S. stocks, American Express Co., Procter & Gamble
Co. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. rose more than 1.5 percent to lead
the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 60.44 points, or 0.4
percent, to a record 15,275.69.  Deere & Co. lost 4.4 percent as the world’s biggest
agricultural-equipment maker cut its equipment-sales forecast.
Macy’s Inc. rose 2.5 percent after reporting profit that beat
estimates and increasing its share buyback program.  The  S&P 500  is up 16 percent so far this year and has
surged 145 percent from a 12-year low in 2009, driven by better-than-estimated corporate earnings and three rounds of bond
purchases from the Federal Reserve.  About 91 percent of S&P 500 stocks traded above their
average prices from the past 50 days as of yesterday, according
to data  compiled by Bloomberg , approaching the two-year high of
93 percent reached January.  Stocks rallied yesterday after  David Tepper , the
billionaire who runs hedge-fund firm Appaloosa Management LP,
said he remains optimistic about markets as the  U.S. budget
deficit  eases.  Shrinking Deficit  The U.S. budget deficit will shrink by the end of fiscal
2013 to $642 billion, the smallest shortfall in five years,
according to the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  The agency yesterday reduced its estimate of the likely
shortfall by more than $200 billion compared with its February
projections. The agency cited stronger-than-expected tax
receipts as well as payments to the Treasury by government-owned
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  as major reasons for the change.  Thirty-year Treasury bonds also rose for the first time in
five days, sending yields down three basis points to 3.16
percent after they reached the highest level since March 20
yesterday. Two-year note yields lost one basis point to 0.24
percent.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the currency against six
major peers, rose 0.2 percent to 83.78, the highest since July
25. The dollar strengthened versus 10 of 16 major peers.  Factory Output  Output at factories, mines and utilities fell a more-than-forecast 0.5 percent after a revised 0.3 percent gain in the
prior month that was weaker than previously reported, a Fed
report showed. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called
for a 0.2 percent decline. Manufacturing, which makes up 75
percent of total production, unexpectedly fell 0.4 percent, the
third drop in four months.  The Fed Bank of New York’s  general economic index  declined
to minus 1.4 this month from 3.1 in April, compared with an
increase to 4 predicted in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  More than two shares advanced for each that dropped in the
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, which climbed 0.8 percent to close at
the highest level since June 2008. Commerzbank AG surged 12
percent, rebounding from a record low, on the first day of a
rights offer to raise about 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion).  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  rallied 8.3 percent as Europe’s second-largest
discount airline reported a narrower first-half loss.  London 
Stock Exchange Group Plc rose 5.3 percent as profit topped
estimates.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index was little changed as
Russia’s Micex index slid 1 percent, while the Hang Seng  China 
Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong 
added 0.5 percent.  India ’s Sensex jumped 2.5 percent, the most since June on a
closing basis, after  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao said yesterday that he would “take note” of softening
inflation at next month’s policy review.  The pound strengthened against 14 of 16 major peers as  Bank
of England  Governor  Mervyn King  predicted a U.K. recovery is now
“in sight.” The U.K. economy may expand 0.5 percent this
quarter from 0.3 percent in the first three months of the year,
according to the central bank.  The euro weakened against 14 of its 16 counterparts. Gross
domestic product fell 0.2 percent after a 0.6 percent decline in
the previous three months, the European Union’s statistics
office said today. The median of 39 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 0.1 percent contraction.  Forint Rallies  Hungary’s forint strengthened against all 16 major peers
after the economy recorded its first quarterly growth in more
than a year, beating estimates.  In European bond markets, rates on 10-year Swiss, Swedish
and U.K. securities rose, while Portugal’s and  Greece ’s
declined.  Greece’s 10-year government bonds advanced, pushing the
yield below 9 percent for the first time since October 2010,
after Fitch Ratings yesterday raised its grade one level to B-,
citing “clear progress” on rebalancing the economy. The yield
fell 53 basis points to 8.78 percent.  Commodities Fall  Commodities retreated after Bank of America Corp. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. this week cut 2013 growth estimates for the
world’s second-biggest economy to 7.6 percent after April
industrial production and fixed-asset investment trailed
forecasts.  Gold fell for a fifth day, the longest slump since
February, losing 2 percent to $1,396.20 an ounce, and silver
dropped 3.1 percent. Copper declined 0.7 percent in London and
nickel retreated 1.3 percent. China is the biggest buyer of
industrial metals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  