-- Aussie Falls to 11-Month Low as Yield Premium Over U.S. Shrinks
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-05-15T07:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/aussie-is-near-11-month-low-as-yield-premium-over-u-s-shrinks.html
Australia’s dollar fell to an 11-month low after the premium the nation’s bonds offer over  U.S.
debt  shrank to the least in a year, sapping the allure of the
currency as a higher-yielding asset.  The  extra rate  investors get by holding the South Pacific
nation’s 10-year notes instead of similar-maturity Treasuries
dropped to 1.27 percentage points yesterday, the lowest since
June 2012. Yields on U.S. securities reached a two-month high
this week amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  may consider
tapering bond purchases as the economy improves.  “For the remainder of the week, the Aussie dollar will be
quite heavy,” said  Joseph Capurso , a Sydney-based foreign-exchange strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the
nation’s biggest lender by market value. “The  U.S. dollar  will
remain quite firm, I think U.S bond yields will continue to lift
a bit further.”  The Australian dollar lost 0.3 percent to 98.63 U.S. cents
as of 5:29 p.m. in Sydney after touching 98.52, lowest since
June 12 last year. The currency extended its decline to an
eighth day, the longest run of slides since August 2011. New
Zealand’s currency was little changed at 81.90 U.S. cents.  The yield on Australia’s 10-year note gained three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.27 percent today. Traders
see about a 60 percent chance that the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
will lower the benchmark rate within three months after cutting
it to a record 2.75 percent on May 7, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg on overnight-index swaps.  RBA Policy  The  exchange rate  has been “little changed at a
historically high level over the past 18 months, which is
unusual,” the central bank in a statement after reducing
borrowing costs.  “The RBA is actually suggesting in its statement last week
that the RBA cut rates because they’re a bit concerned about the
currency strength,”  Paul Mackel , the head of Asian currency
research at HSBC Holdings Plc. in Hong Kong, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “The market hates that
type of thing.”  The statistics bureau said today the nation’s  wage index 
rose 0.7 percent in the first three months of this year from the
fourth quarter. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey estimated
a 0.8 percent increase.  The Aussie’s 14-day relative-strength index against the
greenback dropped to 24 yesterday, the least in a year and below
the 30 level that signals to some traders that a currency has
slid too far, too rapidly and is poised for a reversal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  