-- Aussie Disconnecting With Economy in 5% Plunge: Market Reversal
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-05-15T23:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/aussie-disconnecting-with-economy-in-5-plunge-market-reversal.html
Australia ’s growing economy will put
a floor under the nation’s currency, sparking a rebound from its
steepest decline in a year, trading patterns suggest.  The Australian dollar’s 4.6 percent slide this month cut
its 14-day relative strength index to 25, breaching the 30
threshold that signals a currency has fallen too far, too fast.
The so-called Aussie also pushed through the lower limit of what
traders call the Bollinger band, implying an imminent reversal.  The currency started tumbling amid a slowdown in  China , the
biggest customer for Australia’s commodity exports, and
interest-rate cuts aimed at maintaining the South Pacific
nation’s competitiveness. Australia’s above-average growth, its
AAA credit rating and relatively high benchmark interest rate of
2.75 percent makes its bonds attractive to international
investors, underpinning the currency.  “I expect a rebound,” said Genzo Kimura, a Tokyo-based
investor at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Co., which
oversees the equivalent of $41.2 billion. “Central banks like
buying Aussie dollars. When it becomes too weak, central banks
love to buy.”  The Australian dollar’s depreciation this month is the
biggest drop since it lost 6.7 percent in May 2012. The
following month, it jumped 5.2 percent. Its slide is exceeded
only by the yen’s 4.7 percent drop among the 31 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg against the  U.S. dollar .  Breaching Band  The Aussie weakened to an 11-month low of 98.52 U.S. cents
before closing at 98.98 cents yesterday in  New York . That was
less than the lower Bollinger band of 99.11 U.S. cents. When the
currency fell below the lower Bollinger band in March, it
strengthened more than 4 percent over the following five weeks.  Bollinger bands, developed by  John Bollinger  in the 1980s,
are used by technical analysts to identify the  turning point  in
an asset’s trajectory. The lower limit of the band represents
two standard deviations from the 20-day moving average and
typically implies that the likelihood of the currency dropping
below the band is about 2.5 percent.  The relative strength index has dropped from this year’s
high of 67.7 on Jan. 10, when the Aussie closed at $1.0598.
While a reading below 30 indicates a currency is “oversold,”
anything above 70 indicates it’s “overbought.”  Option Premiums  The premium for one-month options granting the right to
sell the Aussie against the U.S. dollar relative to those
allowing for purchases was 2.1 percentage points, up from 1
percentage point at the beginning of May, 25-delta risk reversal
rates show. A so-called Z-score of 2.1 means the premium is more
than two units of standard deviation from the 20-day average.  In these and other forms of technical analysis, investors
and analysts study charts of trading patterns and prices to
predict changes in a currency, security or index.  Australia’s status as a top-rated haven for investors’
money is propping up its currency, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  told
reporters in Canberra yesterday. That was a day after he said
the government is willing to run budget deficits to avoid job
cuts.  While growth in gross domestic product will probably slow
to 2.65 percent this year, that is still above the average of
1.09 percent for the Group of 10 nations, according to surveys
of economists by  Bloomberg News . At 2.75 percent, the central
bank’s key rate compares with a range of 0 to 0.25 percent in
the U.S., 0.5 percent in the  euro zone  and Japan’s 0 to 0.1
percent.  ‘No Problem’  “There’s no problem in the Australian economy,” said
Aaron Chen, who trades the Australian dollar in Taipei at
Shinkong Life Insurance Co., which has the equivalent of $57.5
billion in assets. “The main purpose of the  budget deficit  is
to strengthen the economy,” and that’s positive for the
currency, which “will rebound,” said Chen.  Chen forecasts the Aussie will climb to $1.02 in a month.
The average over the past decade is 85.39 U.S. cents.  Australia has stable AAA ratings from  Standard & Poor’s ,
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, along with Canada,
Denmark,  Finland , Norway,  Singapore , Sweden and Switzerland. S&P
and Moody’s affirmed Australia’s grade after this week’s budget.  The currency is held by as many as 34 central banks,
including those in China,  Russia  and Singapore, the  Reserve Bank 
said in documents released in February under a Freedom of
Information Act request.  China reported April 15 that  gross domestic product 
expanded 7.7 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
versus 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  responded
by lowering the target for overnight loans from 3 percent. The
odds of a reduction to 2.5 percent at the next central bank
meeting on June 4 are about 23 percent, rising to 79 percent for
a cut by November, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  