-- Australia’s Clarke Backs Himself to Get Through Two Ashes Series
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-15T04:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/australia-s-clarke-backs-himself-to-get-through-two-ashes-series.html
Australia  captain  Michael Clarke  said
his experience of managing a back injury throughout his career
will help him lead the team through consecutive Ashes cricket
series against England.  Clarke, who was last month named as the leading cricketer
of 2012 by Wisden Cricketers’ Almanack, the sport’s annual
reference book, is recovering from back and hamstring injuries
that forced him to withdraw from the final match of Australia’s
4-0 Test series loss in  India  in March.  It was the only elite five-day match Clarke has missed 
because of injury in his 92-Test career. When he returns, the 
32-year-old faces an eight-month schedule during which his team 
competes in June’s one-day Champions Trophy followed by 
best-of-five Ashes series beginning July 10 in  England  and then 
in Australia from Nov. 21.  “I’m confident it will be no different to how it has been
throughout my career,” Clarke, who scored an Australian-record
1,595 Test runs in 2012, told reporters in Sydney today. “I’ve
managed to play 90-odd Test matches and only missed one, so
that’s a big part of why preparation is so important for me.”  The eight-nation Champions Trophy is scheduled for June 6-23 in the U.K.  After winning eight straight Ashes contests between 1989
and 2003, Australia lost three of the past four and faces the
prospect of  losing three series  in a row against its archrival
for the first time since 1956. England is the 4-9 favorite to
win on home soil, according to U.K. bookmaker William Hill.  Clarke said the only difference between his preparation
compared with previous years is that Cricket Australia has had
more input, with national team physiotherapist  Alex Kountouris 
monitoring his rehabilitation and training program.  “I need to make sure I’m fit,” Clarke added. “I need to
make sure I’m not carrying too much weight. I need to make sure
I’m putting in the work to be fit in eight months or 12 months’
time. I’m really confident that, with the work I’ve been doing,
that I will be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  