-- Australia Horse Industry Sues Government Over 2007 Flu
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-05-15T06:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/australia-horse-industry-sues-government-over-2007-flu.html
Australian horse owners, trainers and
racing clubs sued the federal government, claiming its
negligence caused a 2007 equine influenza outbreak that
devastated the industry.  The lawsuit, filed today in Federal Court of  Australia  in
Sydney by Maurice Blackburn Lawyers, seeks unspecified damages
for more than 550 clients in the industry. The Department of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mailed request for comment, and a spokesman declined to
comment or be identified, citing government policy.  “There are still many hundreds of people struggling to
recover from the financial losses they suffered in 2007,”
Damian Scattini, a class-action lawyer at Maurice Blackburn,
said in an e-mailed statement. “There were systemic failures
across Australia’s quarantine system.”  Australia quarantined animals, canceled racing meetings and
banned the movement of horses in 2007 after the  H3N8 virus  was
detected. “Serious and systemic failures” in the nation’s
quarantine system resulted in the spread of the virus, Ian Callinan, a former High Court Justice, wrote in a 2008 report.  The virus probably entered Australia in August 2007 with
horses from  Japan , and was likely spread through contaminated
people or equipment leaving Eastern Creek Quarantine Station in
Sydney, Tony Burke, Australia’s Agriculture Minister, said after
the release of Callinan’s report.  Duty Failure  Eastern Creek was the only quarantine station in New South
Wales, according to a statement of claim filed by the
plaintiffs. The federal government, as the operator, breached
its duty by failing to exercise reasonable care to prevent the
virus from spreading, according to the court filing.  The plaintiffs’ damages will probably be in the hundreds of
millions of dollars, Scattini said in a phone interview today.  “The losses range from significant to huge,” he said,
declining to give a specific amount.  Australia spent more than A$342 million ($339 million)
eradicating the virus and providing financial assistance to
businesses and people affected as of 2008, Burke said at the
time.  The case is Clasul Pty v. Commonwealth of Australia.
NSD368/2013. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  