-- Banco do Brasil Boosts Loans Faster Than Company Forecast
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-05-15T12:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/banco-do-brasil-boosts-loans-faster-than-company-forecast.html
Banco do Brasil SA , the Brazilian
lender whose insurance unit held the world’s largest initial
public offering this year, said first-quarter lending expanded
faster than the company’s forecast, led by corporate loans.  Credit grew 26 percent to 592.7 billion reais ($293.9
billion) in the first quarter, compared with the Brasilia-based
bank’s forecast of 16 percent to 20 percent this year, the
company said today in a regulatory filing. Corporate loans at
Banco do Brasil, led by Chief Executive Officer Aldemir Bendine,
49, increased 33 percent from a year earlier.  Banco do Brasil and the nation’s other federally controlled
lenders, Caixa Economica Federal and development bank BNDES,
were pushed by President  Dilma Rousseff  to increase credit as
the Brazilian economy slowed. Itau Unibanco Holding SA boosted
lending 9.2 percent and Banco Bradesco SA’s increased 12
percent. The companies are the nation’s two largest privately
owned banks.  “The state-owned banks continue to post accelerated growth
rates,” GBM Grupo Bursatil Mexicano SA analysts Andre Riva Gargiulo and Gilberto Tonello wrote in an April 26 note to
clients, adding that those lenders increased loans by “an
astonishing” 29 percent in March from a year earlier. Brazilian
privately owned banks boosted credit 7 percent in March from a
year earlier, central bank data show.  BB Seguridade  Through yesterday, Banco do Brasil  gained  0.3 percent since
April 29, when its insurance unit,  BB Seguridade Participacoes
SA (BBSE3) , started trading in Sao Paulo. The division advanced 5.9
percent from the 17-real IPO price. The offering produced a
gross gain of 8.37 billion reais and “the funds raised were
fully reverted to Banco do Brasil,” the bank said in the
earnings statement.  Adjusted net income, which excludes one-time charges,
declined to 2.69 billion reais, or 91 centavos a share, from 2.7
billion reais, or 89 centavos, a year earlier, according to the
statement. The results compare with the average  estimate  of 2.72
billion reais in a Bloomberg survey of four analysts.  Total assets climbed 17 percent to 1.18 trillion reais. The
rate of debt payments overdue more than 90 days was 2 percent,
down from 2.2 percent a year earlier and 2.05 percent in the
three previous months.  Banco do Brasil reduced provisions for bad loans to 3.28
billion reais from 3.64 billion reais in the fourth quarter and
3.58 billion reais a year earlier.  Banco Votorantim, the auto-loan company in which Banco do
Brasil has about a 50 percent stake, posted a loss of 278.1
million reais, after losses of 358 million reais in the fourth
quarter and 596 million reais a year earlier, the company said
on its website. Last month, Bendine said Banco do Brasil is
close to an accord to increase its stake in Votorantim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  