-- Banco do Brasil Profit About Unchanged Amid Loan Growth
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-05-15T11:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/banco-do-brasil-profit-about-unchanged-amid-loan-growth.html
Banco do Brasil SA , the Brazilian
lender whose insurance unit held the world’s largest initial
public offering this year, said first-quarter profit fell less
than 1 percent and loan growth accelerated.  Adjusted net income, which excludes one-time charges,
declined to 2.69 billion reais ($1.33 billion), or 91 centavos a
share, from 2.7 billion reais, or 89 centavos, a year earlier,
the Brasilia-based lender said today in a regulatory filing. The
results compared with the average  estimate  of 2.72 billion reais
in a Bloomberg survey of four analysts.  Banco do Brasil and the nation’s other federally controlled
lenders, Caixa Economica Federal and development bank BNDES,
were pushed by President Dilma Rousseff to increase credit as
the Brazilian economy slowed. Banco do Brasil, led by Chief
Executive Officer Aldemir Bendine, 49, boosted credit by 26
percent in the first quarter, compared with its growth forecast
of an expansion of 16 percent to 20 percent this year.  “The state-owned banks continue to post accelerated growth
rates,” GBM Grupo Bursatil Mexicano SA analysts Andre Riva Gargiulo and Gilberto Tonello wrote in an April 26 note to
clients, adding that those lenders increased lending by “an
astonishing” 29 percent in March from a year earlier. Brazilian
privately owned banks boosted credit 7 percent in March from a
year earlier, central bank data show.  Banco do Brasil  has gained  0.3 percent since April 29, when
its insurance unit,  BB Seguridade Participacoes SA (BBSE3) , started
trading in Sao Paulo. The division advanced 5.9 percent from the
17-real IPO price. The offering produced a gross gain of 8.37
billion reais and “the funds raised were fully reverted to
Banco do Brasil,” the bank said in the earnings statement.  Loan Book  The bank’s loan book reached 592.7 billion reais in the
first quarter, according to the earnings statement. Total assets
climbed 17 percent to 1.18 trillion reais. The rate of debt
payments overdue more than 90 days was 2 percent, down from 2.2
percent a year earlier and 2.05 percent in the three previous
months.  Banco do Brasil reduced provisions for bad loans to 3.28
billion reais from 3.64 billion reais in the fourth quarter and
3.58 billion reais a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  