-- Barnett Newman Leads Sotheby’s NYC $294 Million Auction
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-05-15T03:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/barnett-newman-fetches-record-44-million-at-sotheby-s.html
A monumental Barnett Newman canvas
fetched a record $43.8 million at a $294 million  Sotheby’s (BID) 
auction last night, as contemporary art prices rose with stocks.  “The speculative element is returning to the market,”
said Jonathan Binstock, senior adviser in postwar and
contemporary art at Citi Private Bank. “There’s more money to
spend on riskier opportunities, ones that would have seemed
unappealing just a few years prior.”  Hours earlier, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index stock
benchmark climbed to its eighth high in nine sessions.  The auction’s tally surpassed the presale low estimate of
$284 million but fell short of the $383 million high estimate.
Records were set for four artists, including  Gerhard Richter  and
Nate Lowman, while 11 of the 64 lots didn’t sell. Bidders from
35 countries registered for the sale, Sotheby’s said.  Consigned by  Paul Allen , co-founder of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
Newman’s 8.5-by-10-foot “Onement VI” was estimated at $30
million to $40 million. Its sale was ensured by an undisclosed
third-party guarantee.  Claudia Dwek, deputy chairman of contemporary art in Europe
for Sotheby’s, bought the painting for a phone client. The price
smashed Newman’s previous auction record of $22.5 million, set
last May at Christie’s. At least five bidders competed for the
work.  Richter’s 1968 “Domplatz, Mailand (Cathedral Square,
Milan)” fetched $37.1 million against the presale estimate of
$30 million to $40 million. It set a record for the German
artist and was the highest price at auction for a living artist.
Donald Bryant, a New York collector, bought it in the saleroom.  Bacon Burned  The biggest casualty was a Francis Bacon portrait of his
lover that was estimated at $30 million to $40 million. Another
high-profile casualty: a sculpture of four vacuum cleaners by
 Jeff Koons , who has two major gallery exhibitions in New York.
It was estimated at $10 million to $15 million.  “Tonight was not the night of the Hoovers,” said  Tobias Meyer , the evening’s auctioneer, clad in a white tuxedo top.  The auction had a respectable mogul quotient --  Barnes &
Noble Inc. (BKS)  founder  Leonard Riggio  and developer  Harry Macklowe 
attended and designer Valentino Garavani bought at least two
works.  Yves Klein’s 1959 sculpture made with sea sponges drenched
in the artist’s trademark blue pigment fetched $22 million, the
highest price paid for a sculpture by the artist. Estimated in
the region of $20 million, it has been shown in numerous museum
exhibitions.  Wry Italian  Maurizio Cattelan’s “Stadium” sold for $2.6 million,
below its $3.5 million high estimate, but still dear for a 23-foot-long foosball game. Created in 1991, it was the first major
sculpture by the wry Italian, according to the auction catalog.  Art dealer  David Zwirner  won  Jackson Pollock ’s 1946
painting “The Blue Unconscious” at $20.9 million. He said he
bought it on behalf of a collector.  The Newman painting has an unusual history. It was
purchased in 1961 by the Beverly Hills collectors Marcia and
 Frederick Weisman . For years it hung in the living room of the
late Marcia Weisman, said her granddaughter Abby Weisman, who
attended the sale.  “That’s such a classic painting,” said Abby Weisman. “It
was hanging there until 1989.”  Tax Evasion  In 1990 “Onement VI” became part of an art trove acquired
by Contemporary Art Holding Corp., a company formed by people
including art dealer  Larry Gagosian  and newsprint mogul  Peter Brant .  In 2003, both men were charged with tax evasion related to
the one-day transaction which included acquiring 62 works of
art, selling 58 works of art, and earning about $17 million in
taxable capital gains, according to a civil lawsuit filed
against Gagosian and Brant by then-U.S. Deputy Attorney General
James Comey in Manhattan.  The Newman was one of four remaining paintings that weren’t
sold. In 2000, Brant sold “Onement VI,” according to the 2004
order of settlement and dismissal of the case.  The seller of the painting at Sotheby’s acquired the
painting in 2000, according to the catalog.  Eight lots in the sale were donated by artists and art
foundations to raise money for the construction of the Whitney
Museum of American Art’s new building at the High Line. The
group tallied $11.8 million, surpassing its high estimate of
$6.6 million.  Making his evening-sale debut at Sotheby’s was Lowman,
whose “Black Escalade” (2005) fetched $665,000, surpassing the
high estimate of $450,000 and setting an auction record for the
artist. He was born in 1979.  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on
 movies .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 