-- Bayer, Algeta Win U.S. Approval for Prostate Cancer Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-15T16:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/bayer-algeta-win-u-s-approval-for-prostate-cancer-drug.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Algeta ASA (ALGETA)  won U.S.
approval for their drug to treat an advanced prostate cancer
that doesn’t respond to standard testosterone-lowering therapy.  The Food and Drug Administration cleared the medicine more
than three months early for patients whose disease has spread to
their bones, the agency said today in a  statement . The drug,
Xofigo, is designed treat the secondary cancer that has settled
in the bones. Prostate cancer is the most common cancer among
men after skin cancer, according to the American Cancer Society.  The injection, also known as radium-223, has similar
properties to calcium and is drawn to bones, Oslo-based Algeta
said on its website. The injection may generate $802 million in
sales in 2017, according to the average of six analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Xofigo binds with minerals in the bone to deliver
radiation directly to bone tumors, limiting the damage to the
surrounding normal tissues,” Richard Pazdur, director of the
FDA’s Office of Hematology and Oncology Products, said in the
statement. “Xofigo is the second prostate cancer drug approved
by the FDA in the past year that demonstrates an ability to
extend the survival of men with metastatic prostate cancer.”  The FDA approved  Medivation Inc. (MDVN) ’s Xtandi for prostate
cancer Aug. 31.  Xtandi,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Zytiga and  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) ’s
Provenge are approved for men suffering from prostate cancer
that is resistant to hormone therapy and has spread to other
parts of the body.  Bayer Partnership  Algeta signed an agreement in 2009 for Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer to develop the treatment. The companies will co-promote the drug and split profit from sales in the U.S., Algeta
said in a statement in April 2012.  Bayer rose 0.6 percent to close in  Frankfurt  at 85.03
euros, the highest price since 1992. Algeta fell 1.8 percent to
207.80 kroner in Oslo.  Xofigo will be available for patient treatment in a few
weeks, the companies said.  “Most men with castration-resistant prostate cancer
develop bone metastases, which can decrease overall survival,”
Oliver Sartor, medical director of the Tulane Cancer Center in
New Orleans who worked on the main trial on the drug, said in
the companies’ statements. “Xofigo has demonstrated an anti-tumor effect on bone metastases and will be an important
addition to the treatment of this cancer.”  Patients who took radium-223 in a clinical trial survived a
median of 14 months compared with 11.2 months for men who took a
placebo, the FDA said. Prostate cancer will be diagnosed in
238,590 men and 29,720 will die from the disease this year in
the U.S., the Atlanta-based cancer society  said .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  