-- China May Not Import CO2 Credits as UN Seeks New Market
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-05-15T22:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/biggest-emitter-china-may-not-import-carbon-credits-for-decades.html
China, the world’s largest
greenhouse-gas emitter, probably won’t import  carbon credits  for
two decades as global diplomats craft a new emissions market
that will increase supply, the nation’s climate negotiator said.  Using offsets from outside China in that period is an
“unlikely scenario,”  Su Wei  said in an interview in Bonn
earlier this month. “Rather, internally we will have a lot of
offsetting credits.”  United Nations envoys are seeking to put together a new
carbon market as the world negotiates a climate-protection
agreement to take effect around 2020. The need for greenhouse-gas action may surge by then, when global emissions will
probably exceed by at least 18 percent the limits scientists
have said will keep temperatures from rising 2 degrees Celsius
(3.6 Fahrenheit), the UN estimated in November.  “We are not very hopeful that we’ll see a global agreement
over the next few years” that will increase demand, said
Albrecht von Ruffer, Hamburg-based managing partner of Nserve
Environmental Services GmbH.  While  China ,  South Korea  and  California  are building or
have installed carbon markets, “we don’t expect them to allow
meaningful volumes of imports,” he said in a May 13 phone
interview. The European Union is due to publish data today
showing which emission credits were used by factories, power
stations and airlines last year.  Excess Supply  Certified Emission Reduction, or CER, offsets are created
from carbon-reducing projects in  developing countries  under the
Clean Development Mechanism, the biggest UN market by supply.
Emission Reduction Units are from developed nation projects
under the UN’s Joint Implementation mechanism.  Supplies from both programs were at 2.1 billion tons as of
May 14, according to data from the  website  of the UN Framework
Convention on  Climate Change . That’s more than the 1.7 billion
tons allowed for compliance in the EU carbon market in the 13
years through 2020, according to that market’s rules.  CERs for December have jumped 48 percent so far this month,
amid buying by EU emitters for compliance in the world’s largest
carbon market. They rose 1 cent, or 2.6 percent, to settle at 40
cents a ton on ICE yesterday in London.  Waning demand for UN credits drove prices 90 percent lower
in the past year, according to ICE Futures  Europe  in London.  New Market  A new market might encourage installation of the latest
emissions-cutting technology in developing-nation industries,
said Artur Runge-Metzger, the EU’s lead negotiator.  The plan, still being put together, would stimulate nations
to enact policies requiring industries to cut emissions, Runge-Metzger said May 2 in an interview in Bonn.  For instance, a facility in the waste-management industry
may get credits for implementing technology that’s even more
advanced than set out in a government policy.  “That may be the part that is going to be credited,”
Runge-Metzger said. “You don’t have to go project by project,
or waste-management site by waste-management site.”  Crediting would result from a monitoring system that’s
industrywide rather than project-specific, he said.  Under the Clean Development Mechanism, each project must
win registration from UN-overseen regulators and monitor its own
emission reductions.  ‘Not Attractive’  A new  offsetting market  is “not attractive” to China, Su
said in a May 2 interview in Bonn. Nations need tighter
greenhouse-gas limits to spur consumption of credits, he said.  “If there are no ambitious targets, there will be no
demand,” he said. “So what’s the purpose of starting a new
market mechanism?”  Carbon markets are needed to encourage clean technology and
protect the climate, according to  Norway , a country that is
buying offsets.  “We believe the carbon markets will be very important in
the years going forward,” Kjetil Lund, an Oslo-based deputy
minister in the nation’s finance ministry, said in a May 7 phone
interview. “We’re not happy with the very low prices.” Nserve,
founded in 2003 before the EU’s market began, also is buying
selected offsets, favoring those that may be alternatively
marketed to companies and people who wish to voluntarily cut
their emissions, von Ruffer said.  That’s because there’s still not enough certainty about the
future of international regulated markets, he said. “I wouldn’t
build a business on this hope at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  