-- Bio Gives Up on Seaweed-to-Ethanol Effort in Chile
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-05-15T19:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/bio-gives-up-on-seaweed-to-ethanol-effort-in-chile.html
Bio Architecture Lab Inc. , the U.S.
biotechnology company that sought to turn seaweed into ethanol
in  Chile , has given up on the technology after deciding it made
more sense to sell the raw material than process it into fuel.  The company is seeking to sell Chilean operations including
a 20-hectare (49-acre) seaweed farm in a bay near the island of
Chiloe and a team of 20 employees, Chief Executive Officer Ric Lucien said in a phone interview today. He still needs to decide
what to do with a semi-completed ethanol production pilot plant.  Closely held Bio Architecture, based in Berkeley,
California, started operating in Chile in 2009 with an eye to
turning parts of the country’s 6,400-kilometer (4,000-mile)
coastline into farms for biofuel, he said. The company will
continue researching algae-to-ethanol technologies so that it’s
positioned if feedstock prices fall enough to make the business
model viable.  “Seaweed is worth $1.30 a kilogram without doing anything
to it, so why would you harvest it and produce ethanol” which
cost 75 cents a kilogram, Lucien said. “The opportunity cost is
too great.”  Lucien declined to comment on how much the company spent on
the effort and on the future of a  partnership  it has with  oil
company   Statoil ASA (STL)  to produce ethanol from algae off the coast
of  Norway . The Chilean project includes applications for permits
to 4,800 hectares of so-called aquafarms, he said.  Seaweed has been farmed since the fourth century in  Japan 
and is now processed into food products valued at as much as $5
billion a year, according to the United Nation’s Food and
Agriculture Organization’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  