-- BlackBerry Focuses on Emerging Markets With Q5
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-05-15T20:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/blackberry-focuses-on-emerging-markets-with-q5-corporate-canada.html
BlackBerry (BBRY)  is counting on growth in
 emerging markets  such as Brazil and  Indonesia  with a cheaper
smartphone and a plan to expand the popular instant-messaging
system that helped drive growth in those countries.  The Waterloo, Ontario-based company yesterday said it will
bring BlackBerry Messenger, a free service that generates more
than 10 billion messages a day from its 60 million users, to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices powered by Google Inc.’s Android
platform this summer. The plan risks loosening the company’s
grip on one of its most valuable services, while helping expand
the BlackBerry 10 platform and sales of the lower-priced Q5
against cheaper Android devices, said Kevin Stadtler, a
BlackBerry investor.  “The Q5 is clearly an emerging-market play,” said
Stadtler, president of  Fort Worth , Texas-based Stadtler Capital
Management, which owns about 70,000 BlackBerry shares. Giving
the BBM application away allows more devices to communicate with
BlackBerry handsets, removing an obstacle to sales, he said.
“They actually have a better shot of selling BlackBerry devices
by giving away the BBM app than not,” said Stadtler.  BlackBerry sales in  Latin America , South  Asia ,  Africa  and
parts of  Europe  have held up better than in  North America  in
part because BBM offered a free way for consumers to communicate
in countries where the cost of Internet data and text messaging
is typically higher. Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins is
betting that widening the reach of BBM to users of rival devices
will outweigh the short-term risks of losing the exclusivity on
BBM.  Losing Exclusivity  Sales from Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa accounted for
46 percent of sales last quarter, up from 37 percent three
quarters earlier. Before then, BlackBerry didn’t break out sales
by those regions. Latin America was stable at 14 percent and
Asia slipped from 21 percent to 18 percent.  “We now believe that BB10 is so convincing that we can let
BBM grow on its own merit,” Heins told reporters yesterday at
the annual BlackBerry Live conference in  Orlando ,  Florida .  The move is a gamble for the smartphone maker, Steven Li,
an analyst at  Raymond James in  Toronto, said in an interview at
the conference yesterday. While it increases the reach of the
service, it’s not clear how BlackBerry will make money given
that Apple and Android users won’t have to pay to download the
BBM app.  Getting Paid  “They are losing exclusivity, but counting on the fact
that the BBM experience is much better than any of the other
messaging apps,” said Li, who has the equivalent of a hold
rating on BlackBerry. “I’m still not sure how they monetize
it.”  New BBM channels -- essentially chat rooms focused on
specific themes -- will eventually create opportunities for
advertisers to target users by sponsoring posts, said Andrew
Bocking, BlackBerry’s executive vice president of software
product management. It’s too early to say when BBM channels
might begin to generate revenue, he said.  “With BBM channels, it will be the core set of brands that
users most care about,” Bocking said.  The stock fell 1.6 percent to $15 at 4:16 p.m. in  New York 
today. It fell 4 percent yesterday, the biggest decline in a
week.  Analyst Downgrade  Pierre Ferragu , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in  London , today cut his rating on the stock to the equivalent
of a hold from a buy and lowered his price target to $15.  “With BlackBerry Live behind us, we see few additional
positive catalysts coming through in the next six months and see
a danger that the company misses more optimistic expectations,”
Ferragu said in the note.  Shares of BlackBerry had climbed 142 percent through
yesterday from a Sept. 24 low, fueled by optimism over the
company’s comeback plan. Still, the stock remains 90 percent
below its 2008 high, and though Heins returned BlackBerry to
profitability last quarter earlier than analysts expected, sales
still fell 36 percent year over year. Nine analysts  recommend 
buying the stock, 13 rate it a hold and 21 call it a sell.  BBM will be available as a text-only application for the
competing smartphones in the next few months, before a voice
feature is added, Heins said yesterday.  Emerging Markets  The BlackBerry Q5, available in four colors, will go on
sale beginning in July. Heins also said the updated BlackBerry
10.1 operating system will roll out this week, featuring a Skype
phone application.  “We have reached solid ground with this company,” Heins
told software developers, suppliers and corporate customers at
the  BlackBerry Live  event. “Not only are we still here, we’re
firing on all cylinders.”  In the year since the company’s 2012 gathering, Heins has
worked to streamline the business and return it to
profitability, surprising analysts. Heins now faces the
challenge of reviving sales growth.  The Q5 Heins showed off yesterday was cherry-red and
resembled a more basic version of the Q10, a model that went on
sale in  Canada  and the U.K. about two weeks ago.  The Q10, which has a physical keyboard designed to appeal
to the BlackBerry faithful, has been faring well in other
markets, said Mark Sue, an RBC Capital Markets analyst. Heins
told  Bloomberg News  last month that the phone should sell in the
“several tens of millions,” without giving a time frame.  ‘Healthy’ Sales  Sales in the U.K. and Canada, where the Q10 is already
available, “remain healthy,” Sue wrote in a report this week.
He has a neutral rating on the stock.  A bigger test of the Q10’s appeal will be when it goes on
sale in the U.S. BlackBerry faces a battle to win back market
share it has ceded to Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple in
recent years.  The Q10 will debut in the U.S. in early June, Heins said at
the event, pushing back the target from late May.  Samsung, which makes devices that use Android software,
accounted for a third of global smartphone sales last quarter,
while Apple had 17 percent, according to research firm IDC.
BlackBerry saw its share fall to 3.2 percent in the fourth
quarter, before the company dropped out of the top five in the
first three months of this year.  Expanding BBM’s reach may help win over reluctant
developers, claw back some market share and open up new sources
of revenue, said Stadtler in an interview at the conference
yesterday. What BlackBerry needs most is scale to compete with
Samsung and Apple, he said.  “If they’re going to monetize that app, scale is the name
of the game,” Stadtler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  