-- Blankfein Says Bank Valuations to Climb as Rules Become Clear
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-05-15T18:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/blankfein-says-bank-valuations-to-climb-as-rules-become-clear.html
Many U.S. banks are trading below
book value because of concerns over regulation, and share prices
will rise as those rules are finalized, said  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein.  Bank stocks will climb toward book values as “regulation
will not turn up as bad as it’s judged to be, the economic
certainties will clear up and people will decide there’s
growth,” Blankfein said today in a presentation in Santiago,
 Chile .  Goldman Sachs’s shares are selling about 5 percent  above
book value , the only one of the five largest Wall Street banks
to trade above its accounting value of equity. The firm traded
for as much as three times book value in 2007. Banks are facing
new international capital rules along with U.S. regulations on
derivatives and a ban on proprietary trading in the wake of the
financial crisis.  “The natural response is to have more regulation,”
Blankfein told reporters after the event. “It may well go too
far, but if does, it will adjust.”  Blankfein cited the number of U.S. laws governing financial
services that were passed in the decade following the crash of
1929 and the start of the Great Depression.  “You’re not going to get it right the first time,” he
said. “There has to be very good dialogue between the firms
like ourselves, that have a lot of knowledge, the legislators
that have to make a decision and have to weigh risk versus
reward and safety to the system, and the regulators that have to
design and implement the regulations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  