-- Border Delays Cost U.S. $7.8 Billion as Fence Is Focus
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-05-15T00:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/border-delays-cost-u-s-7-8-billion-as-fence-is-focus.html
Delays at U.S.-Mexico border
crossings cost the  U.S. economy  $7.8 billion in 2011, as
improvements have lagged behind traffic growth and the political
focus has been on securing the rest of the border.  The toll could balloon to $14.7 billion annually if the
value of U.S.-Mexico truck trade reaches $463 billion by 2020 as
predicted, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As the U.S. Senate debates an overhaul of the nation’s
immigration system, the focus on fencing and securing remote
stretches of the southern border has overshadowed long-needed
improvements in technology, infrastructure and staffing at the
land ports, said Matthew Hummer, a senior transportation analyst
for Bloomberg Government.  “I think the most important issue here is stabilizing the
two economies, and the ports of entry do that: They facilitate
trade and create job opportunities,” said Hummer, the author of
a Bloomberg Government report on the border. “If Mexicans have
jobs in Mexico they are less likely to come to the U.S.”  Net Mexican migration dropped to zero from 2005 to 2010,
amid strengthening economic conditions in Mexico, heightened
border enforcement and other factors, according to a  Pew
Research Center study  last year. The Mexican economy has grown
at about twice the pace of the U.S. since the end of 2009.  Remote Areas  U.S. investment has remained focused on controlling the
rest of the border between the crossings, including remote areas
such as the  Arizona  desert. In the past decade, the number of
Border Patrol agents more than doubled while the number of
Customs and Border Protection officers, who staff the ports of
entry, has remained at about the same level, according to  a
report  by the Washington-based Woodrow Wilson Center’s Mexico
Institute and partner institutions.  Congressional funding for the areas between the ports has
eclipsed that for the authorized entry points since 2007, even
though the crossings have faced enhanced security requirements,
increasing trade and evidence that drugs and dangerous
individuals are more likely to cross there, according to the
Mexico Institute report.  That focus continues in the current immigration debate in
the Senate. The plan crafted by the so-called Gang of Eight
bipartisan senators, which is being considered by the Judiciary
Committee today, aims to secure Republican support by tying
immigrants’ path to citizenship to the ability of the U.S.
Border Patrol to stop 90 percent of illegal traffic across the
southern border between the official ports of entry. There is no
similar metric for the efficiency or security of the land ports.  ‘Less Attention’  “The way the border is currently run is costing the U.S. a
lot in terms of jobs and the economy,” said Christopher Wilson,
an associate with the  Mexico  Institute and co-author of his
group’s report on border trade. “In the context of the current
immigration debate, we are very focused on what is going on
between the ports of entry while this major issue, which is
about security but also about jobs and the economy, is getting a
lot less attention.”  Focusing politically on the rest of the border is easier
than facing the challenges of running effective ports of entry,
said Steven Camarota, director of research for the Center for
Immigration Studies, a Washington-based group critical of
increased immigration. While the land ports probably do need
more investment in infrastructure, there also should be much
more stringent security, including entry and exit checks to
catch those who overstay legal visits, he said.  “It seems to some extent we put too much emphasis on the
ease of movement across the border,” Camarota said. “The
border is not simply an obstacle to be overcome by businesses
and travelers. It is the part where our country begins, and it
is vitally important for security and immigration control.”  Modernizing Ports  Modernizing land ports of entry, which average more than 40
years old and were built before the increased security
requirements implemented after the terrorist attacks of Sept.
11, 2001, would cost $6 billion according to a 2011 Customs and
Border Protection report. About half of that cost would be for
the southern border, according to the Bloomberg Government
analysis.  The Senate bill includes funding for 3,500 additional
Customs officers and earmarks $6.5 billion for border security.
With the bill’s metrics tied to security elsewhere on the
border, though, that’s where most of the money will probably go,
Hummer said.  “Achieving the security metrics in the Gang of Eight bill
will likely divert funds away from land ports of entry,” Hummer
said.  Truck Crossing  More than 5.1 million trucks crossed the border at the six
largest commercial ports of entry in 2012, up from about 2.9
million in 1995 and expected to swell to more than 7.3 million
by 2020, according to the Bloomberg Government analysis. Over
the last decade, the inflation-adjusted value of goods
transported by truck through the southern border grew from $205
billion to $322 billion, Hummer said.  The average wait for commercial vehicles at the southern
border is just over an hour and much longer at peak times of
day, Hummer said. His analysis included additional costs of fuel
and driver wages as well as lost business opportunities.  Five industries that account for 66 percent of trade value
between the countries -- electrical machinery, computer devices,
vehicles, plastics and precision health instruments --shouldered
most of the costs of the border delays.  The delays could increase the costs of consumer electronics
and complicate supply chains for automakers, including Honda,
Nissan, Mazda and Audi, which have announced increased
production in Mexico, according to the report. Automakers often
ship parts across the southern border several times during
manufacturing, causing costs to add up.  Economic Ties  The value of the economic ties between the U.S. and Mexico
has been lost in the immigration debate amid calls by some
members of Congress to fence the entire length of the nearly
2,000-mile border, said Benjamin Johnson, executive director of
the American Immigration Council, a pro-immigration group based
in  Washington . The council’s Immigration Policy Center published
 a paper  last week on the importance of trade between the
countries called “Lost in the Shadow of the Fence.”  “We talk about fences, we talk about all kinds of security
measures and almost never is there a discussion of how do you
improve the incredibly valuable crossings in terms of trade and
people that happen at the border,” Johnson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  