-- Boston Bombing Judge Emerges as Target for Republicans
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n ,   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-05-15T17:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/boston-bombing-judge-emerges-as-target-for-republicans.html
A Harvard Medical School research
assistant who has served as a U.S. judge for 23 years now finds
herself at the center of the  Boston  Marathon bombing case, and
by extension the post-Sept. 11 issue of whether, and when,
suspected terrorists deserve constitutional rights.  Marianne Bowler, who also freelanced for magazines before
going to law school, became a civil litigator for the  Justice
Department  in the late 1970s. She put her background to use,
specializing in personal injury cases, medical malpractice,
swine flu and asbestos litigation, before eventually rising to
be the second-most powerful federal prosecutor in  Massachusetts .  Now 66 and a federal magistrate judge, her career as an
attorney and jurist took on a new headline when, at a bedside
court hearing in Boston’s Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center
last month, she advised bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev of his
rights under the U.S. Supreme Court ruling Miranda v.  Arizona .  On May 30, she is scheduled to preside over the first full
court hearing in Tsarnaev’s prosecution, as the government seeks
to show a trial is warranted on the two capital charges he
faces. Tsarnaev, 19, is accused of carrying out the April 15
attack that killed three and injured 260 with his brother
Tamerlan, 26, who died after a shootout with police. Bowler also
presides over the prosecution in Boston federal court of three
of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev’s friends accused of hindering the probe.  Attack Details  Bowler read Tsarnaev his rights to remain silent and seek
legal counsel in the hospital room hearing on April 22, three
days after he was captured. During those three days, Tsarnaev,
according to law enforcement officials, revealed details of the
attack to investigators who were acting under a so-called public
safety exception that allows pre-Miranda questioning if there is
a reasonable belief there is imminent danger to the public.  While he answered their questions freely during that time,
he stopped talking after Bowler read him his rights, said
Republican lawmakers, who seized on this in the following days,
making Bowler the issue with accusations that she chose to
intervene in the investigation.  “I totally disagree with what she did,” Representative
Pete King, a  New York  Republican, said today in a phone
interview. “From talking to a number of FBI agents, this
appears to be unprecedented for a judge to walk in and in effect
stop the interrogation and provide Miranda rights.”  ‘Cut Short’  Bowler’s action was “highly unusual” and may have harmed
the FBI probe, Representative Mike Rogers, the top Republican on
the House Intelligence Committee, said in an interview on April
26. “The problem in this case is you have a judge who hastily
intervened” in the public-safety exception.  “That cost us dearly in terms of valuable intelligence”
about the bombing and other possible plots, Representative Mike McCaul, a Texas Republican who leads the U.S. House Homeland
Security Committee, said April 26. “The FBI was cut short in
their interrogation when the magistrate judge decided to
Mirandize him.”  Tsarnaev may have revealed more information if the judge
hadn’t stepped in, McCaul said. As an example, the lawmaker
cited Tsarnaev’s pre-Miranda revelation that he and Tamerlan had
discussed going to Times Square in New York to detonate at least
seven more explosives.  The problem with the lawmakers’ criticisms of Bowler is
that they are misplaced, because she was just doing her job,
according to the Justice Department, the U.S. Attorney’s Office
and defense lawyers.  Authorities are required to notify courts of an arrest
within 48 hours by supplying an affidavit showing there was
probable cause for the detainment. Once that complaint is signed
by a judge, an initial court appearance must be scheduled
without “undue delay,” according to court rules.  Court Appearance  The Justice Department confirmed that, as required under
rules of criminal procedure, Bowler didn’t become involved in
the case until April 21 when prosecutors filed a criminal
complaint, which she signed that day.  “The court, that evening, scheduled an initial appearance
for Monday, which it then coordinated with the prosecutors,
federal defender, court reporter, U.S. Marshal Service and the
hospital,” said Dean Boyd, a spokesman for the government.
Under those same rules, the judge is required to advise a
defendant of his rights at the initial appearance.  Susan Phalen, a spokeswoman for Rogers, declined to comment
on Bowler. Mike Rosen, a spokesman for McCaul, said the
congressman had reversed his position since his April 26
statement, alleging that the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
provided inaccurate information about the reading of Miranda
rights to Tsarnaev.  Attack Details  King said the interrogation should have continued for as
long as it took to get details about the planning of the attack,
even if it meant the information couldn’t be used against the
suspect. There’s enough evidence to prosecute Tsarnaev without
that information, he said.  “Whether it was the FBI’s fault or the judge’s fault, the
Miranda should not have been read,” King said today.  Jason Pack, an FBI spokesman, declined to comment on
lawmakers’ statements.  There was nothing unusual about Bowler reading the  Miranda
warning , said Christina DiIorio-Sterling, a spokeswoman for
Boston U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz, who is prosecuting Tsarnaev.
“There have been claims that the judge abruptly entered the
hospital room unannounced; that simply was not the case.”  Brendan Garvin, Bowler’s spokesman, declined to comment
yesterday on the lawmakers’ statements.  Sudden Politicization  Friends of Bowler said that the sudden politicization of
her role runs counter to her reputation.  “I was very glad to see that she didn’t play to the
critics, because she ran that initial appearance in the hospital
in the same way it would have been conducted if it had taken
place in a courtroom involving an anonymous defendant,” said
Mark Pearlstein, a defense lawyer who has known Bowler since the
late 1980s and had an office next to hers when they were federal
prosecutors. The criticism is “wildly misplaced,” he said.  Bowler is evenhanded with both sides of the courtroom
aisle, said Pearlstein, now a criminal defense lawyer who leads
the Boston office of the  law firm  McDermott Will & Emery LLP.  “I would not regard her as being reflexively liberal or
conservative,” Pearlstein said in a phone interview. “She’s
taken a baseball umpire’s view of calling them as she sees
them.”  Continuing Probe  Tsarnaev is recovering from wounds sustained during the
police manhunt following the bombing. U.S. authorities are also
probing the activities of others, including Tamerlan’s widow,
and investigators have traveled to  Russia  and elsewhere in
pursuit of leads on the genesis of the attack.  Lawmakers briefed by federal law-enforcement officials have
said the Tsarnaev brothers, ethnic Chechens who came to the U.S.
with their parents as refugees from Russia’s Caucasus region,
were motivated by radical Islam they learned mostly over the
Internet.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, now held at a federal prison medical
center west of Boston, is charged with using and conspiring to
use a weapon of mass destruction and may face the death penalty
if convicted. He told investigators the original plan was to
target the city’s July 4 celebration and that the brothers
attacked last month’s race after building their bombs --pressure
cookers filled with explosives -- faster than expected,
according to an official briefed on the matter.  Possible Indictment  Bowler may be replaced by a U.S. district judge if a grand
jury indicts Tsarnaev. For now, she is the arbiter of the Obama
administration’s effort to bring the alleged bomber to justice
in a case where prosecutors have yet to say whether they will
seek the death penalty.  The day after Tsarnaev’s May 30 hearing, Bowler is
scheduled to preside over the next court appearance of his
friend, Robel Phillipos, 19. He is accused of lying to
investigators about how he and two other friends at the
University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth reacted when they realized
Tsarnaev might have been involved in the attack.  Phillipos, a U.S. citizen, has already sought to put
distance between himself and the other two men, Dias Kadyrbayev
and Azamat Tazhayakov, saying he -- unlike them -- isn’t accused
of destroying evidence. Phillipos was released on bail and is
under “strict house arrest,” as ordered by Bowler.  Fireworks Wrappings  Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov, both 19, are from  Kazakhstan .
They are accused of disposing of a backpack containing fireworks
wrappings they found in Tsarnaev’s dorm room on April 18, after
the FBI released pictures of the Tsarnaev brothers.  Both in the U.S. on student visas, Kadyrbayev and
Tazhayakov waived a probable-cause hearing that Bowler had
scheduled for this week because their lawyers wanted more time
to see government evidence.  Bowler, whose list of citations on her resume includes as
many medical journals as legal publications, was a pre-med
student in Regis College in Weston, Massachusetts, where she
graduated in 1967. She focused on biochemistry while at Harvard,
according to a biography supplied by the court, and as a writer
on medical subjects before obtaining a law degree from  Suffolk
University  in Boston.  Born in Boston, she became a judge there in 1990, after
serving in various roles as an assistant U.S. attorney in Boston
beginning in 1978, according to a biography on the federal
court’s website. As a government lawyer, she was part of a New
England “strike force” against organized crime in 1979.  Avoiding Ideology  Bowler has a reputation for avoiding ideology and public
pressure in high-profile cases, defense lawyers and former
colleagues said.  She is known for a formal approach to interacting with
litigants, said Michael Kendall, a formal federal prosecutor in
Boston who has known Bowler since the early 1980s.  “I can’t think of a person who would be less interested in
injecting any predisposed views into a case than her,” Kendall,
who now leads the white-collar defense group at  McDermott Will &
Emery  in Boston, said in a phone interview. “Whatever
ideological viewpoint she has never comes into the courtroom.”  Before ascending to the bench, Bowler was a trial lawyer
for the civil division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office -- a role
that required her to defend the U.S. in litigation.  Richard Egan, a retired FBI agent, said that when he was
sued by a political activist in the 1980s, Bowler was given the
job of defending him.  ‘Doesn’t Overstep’  “I could not have had better representation if I had hired
the most expensive law firm on  Wall Street ,” Egan said in a
phone interview. “She’s practical, understands personalities,
understands the process and doesn’t overstep it.”  An hour after Tsarnaev’s bedside hearing last month, Bowler
was back in her courtroom, presiding over an unrelated criminal
case involving the illegal possession of drugs and firearms.  At that hearing, she displayed her propensity for formality
in her courtroom. While Assistant U.S. Attorney Glenn MacKinlay
questioned his primary witness, an officer from the U.S. Bureau
of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, MacKinlay sat down briefly to
review his notes, and then asked another question.  Bowler immediately asked him if he intended to continue
questioning his witnesses from a seated position. MacKinlay said
it wasn’t his intention and hopped to his feet before
continuing.  “Courts are the last bastion of procedure and form in this
country -- she protects that civility and formality,” Robert Peabody, a former state and federal prosecutor in Boston who now
practices at Collora LLP in Boston, said in a phone interview.  Scolding Defendant  At the May 1 initial court appearance of Phillipos, Bowler
scolded him, telling him to “pay attention instead of looking
down.”  Bowler, who speaks in crisp sentences with perfect diction,
is known as Mimi to friends. She often presides at
naturalization ceremonies, swearing in hundreds of immigrants
and congratulating them on becoming citizens.  With her platinum blonde hair and white collars over her
robe, Bowler has been well known in Boston since the 1960s, when
the city’s society columns wrote about her debutante ball and
her wedding to a California man.  When Bowler became a federal judge, her friends pitched in
to buy her a designer black robe to wear on the bench, according
to Kendall. Bowler is “European chic” -- a Francophile who
travels to  France  regularly, skis in the Alps and attended a
gourmet French cooking school, he said.  Now married to Marc Pfeffer, a cardiologist at Brigham &
Women’s Hospital in Boston, much of her travel involves giving
lectures overseas about the U.S. justice system.  Shrewd, Elegant  “On one hand she’s a pretty shrewd, tough trial lawyer,
and on the other hand she’s one of the most elegant women you’ll
ever meet,” Kendall said.  Bowler’s roots in the law stem from her uncle John J.
Sullivan, who was a district court justice in the city for 30
years. She keeps a portrait of him in her offices, according to
court staff.  She grew up in western Massachusetts and graduated from an
all-girl’s prep school. Her father worked in real estate
appraisals and her mother was a fine art painter.  When Bowler was in the U.S. Attorney’s Office, she was the
kind of person who “gets all excited by talking about a cross
examination of a medical expert,” Kendall said. “She talks
about being a trial lawyer the way a carpenter talks about
building fine cabinetry -- anybody who has respect for a job at
that depth always wants to do it the right way.”  The Tsarnaev case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-mj-02106, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Farrell  in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  