-- Brazil Auction Rules May Boost Price of Cheap Wind Power
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-05-15T14:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/brazil-auction-rules-may-boost-price-of-cheap-wind-power.html
Prices for  wind energy  in  Brazil ,
currently the lowest in the world, may rise at least 15 percent
due to government policies designed to make the nation’s  power
grid  more reliable.  Developers must install as much as 15 percent more
generating capacity at new wind farms to compensate for the
variable output from turbines, under rules announced by the
Ministry of Mines and Energy last month, Elbia Melo, president
of Sao Paulo-based  Associacao Brasileira de Energia Eolica  said
yesterday. They also face new restrictions on where they can
build.  Brazil gets 81 percent of its power from hydroelectricity
and the government is seeking to stabilize a power grid that’s
overly dependent on renewable sources. The new policies are
aimed at ensuring that wind farms deliver a certain amount of
electricity, Melo said. They will also require developers to
spend more on equipment and may prompt them to build in
locations with less-than-ideal wind conditions that reduce
output.  “We understand that the government measures are legitimate
and sensible but our worry is that taking all those measures at
the same time could harm the industry,” Melo said in an e-mail.  She estimated the additional equipment needed at each
project would prompt developers to raise their prices for
electricity by about 15 percent.  Transmission Lines  The second policy requires developers to build their own
 power lines  to connect wind farms to the grid or install
turbines near existing cables, sites that may not have the most
wind, Melo said. That may lower output, and she couldn’t
estimate how much that may raise costs.  Under previous policies, the government auctioned the right
to build power cables that link wind farms to the grid.  The two measures will apply to wind projects that
participate in an Aug. 23 government-organized auction to sell
power and may apply to another event this year, Melo said.  The rules will drive up the cost of power from wind farms
that require more than 150 kilometers (94 miles) of power lines,
Pedro Pileggi, director of  investor relations  and new business
at Sao Paulo-based renewable-energy company  Renova Energia SA (RNEW11) ,
said in a telephone interview.  “It doesn’t kill the project but it reduces its
competitiveness,” he said.  There are about 600 megawatts of  wind turbines  installed in
Brazil’s northeast, where the breezes are best, that aren’t
connected to the grid because the power distributor responsible
for building the transmission lines is behind schedule, Melo
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  