-- Bristol-Myers Drug Cocktail Stymies Melanoma Tumors
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-05-16T20:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/bristol-myers-drug-cocktail-stymies-melanoma-tumors.html
Two drugs from  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY)  shrank tumors in as many as half of patients with advanced
melanoma, according to early research that may pave the way for
cocktails that trigger the immune system to destroy cancer.  In the study, 52 patients were simultaneously treated with
Bristol-Myers’s melanoma drug Yervoy and nivolumab, its
experimental therapy that targets the immune system in a
different way. Tumors shrank in 40 percent of patients, and in
53 percent of those who got the most effective dose combination,
according to data released yesterday in advance of the American
Society of Clinical Oncology  meeting  scheduled to begin May 31.  Bristol-Myers,  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and Roche Holding AG are
competing on new cancer therapies and drug cocktails that use
the immune system to seek and kill tumor cells. The treatments
have the potential to reap billions of dollars in sales while
lengthening patient remissions, analysts and oncologists say.  “The responses are occurring faster and the absolute
amount of shrinkage is more than we have seen with either drug
alone with this frequency,” said  Jedd Wolchok , an oncologist at
 Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in  New York , and lead
author on the study. “What we are seeing that is so impressive
is the number of patients that have had very deep responses,
their tumor burden decreasing by 80 percent or more.”  Tumors disappeared entirely in 10 percent of patients,
Wolchok said.  ‘Bottom End’  While the 53 percent tumor shrinkage rate “is at the
bottom end of Street expectations”, the number of patients with
near complete responses is “impressive”, wrote  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group, in an e-mail to clients
after the data came out yesterday.  Bristol-Myers shares fell 3.5 percent to $42.77 at the
close in New York. The company has  gained  31 percent this year.  The new drugs are designed to prevent flicking what is
essentially a molecular off switch, called PD-1, for immune
system T-cells, the body’s key defenders against attacks from
dangerous germs and infections. Many tumors may hide from the
immune system by triggering this switch.  While none of the drugs has been shown in large trials to
extend life, doctors are awaiting early results to gain clues
about which drugs may work best in which patients.  Merck Study  In addition to research from New York-based Bristol-Myers,
data was released yesterday from a preliminary study of
 Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck’s lambrolizumab that
also targets the PD-1 system. It shrank tumors in at least 35
percent of patients with advanced melanoma, according to an
abstract posted on the American Society of Clinical Oncology
website from the first 85 patients in a 294-patient study.  In a third study, Basel, Switzerland-based Roche’s
experimental drug MPDL3280A reduced tumor size in 29 of 140
patients with a variety of late-stage cancers. The drug helped
those with lung cancer, melanoma, kidney cancer, colorectal
cancer and stomach cancer. All but three of the 29 patients who
responded to the drug were still being helped by it, according
to a statement from the cancer doctors’ group.  Doctors are enthusiastic about immunotherapy because “this
type of approach may lead to much longer lasting benefit for
patients,” than many existing therapies, Sandra Horning, global
head of clinical development for cancer drugs at  Roche (ROG) , said in
a telephone interview before the data was released.  Yervoy Benefit  Yervoy, for example, doubles to 19 percent the number of
advanced melanoma patients who survive four years, according to
data presented last September. The medicine was approved for
U.S. sale in March 2011. And in the Bristol-Myers combination
trial, 90 percent of people who responded to the drug were still
doing well as of February 2013, Wolchok said on a conference
call with reporters.  With the new PD-1 drugs “we are seeing profound
responses” in a variety of tumors, said Roy Herbst, chief of
medical oncology at the Yale Cancer Center, who has been
involved in testing the Roche drug.  For Bristol-Myers, strong combination therapy data “could
open the door to significant potential upside” by giving the
company a competitive advantage over rivals testing compounds
against PD-1, said  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst at Leerink Swann
& Co., in a note to clients before the data was released.  While  Wall Street  expects Bristol-Myers’s nivolumab may
garner sales of $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion in 2020, the
revenue potential for it and the company’s other cancer immune
therapy drugs may increase if the Yervoy-nivolumab combination
works well in a variety of tumors, Fernandez said in the note.  Side Effects  The immune therapy medicines sometimes cause autoimmune
side effects. Yervoy can cause severe colon inflammation, while
the experimental PD-1 drugs from Bristol-Myers and Merck can
cause lung inflammation. In Bristol-Myers’s trial combining its
two drugs, some patients developed elevated pancreas and liver
enzyme levels, Wolchok said.  Based on the results, Bristol-Myers has begun a final-stage
trial combining nivolumab and Yervoy in advanced melanoma
patients. It is conducting five other final-stage studies of
nivolumab in  lung cancer , kidney cancer, and melanoma.  Merck is conducting a 500-patient, second-stage trial of
lambrolizumab in melanoma that may be large enough to gain
approval without the usual required third-stage of testing.
Meanwhile, Roche plans to begin a final-stage study of its drug
MPDL3280A in lung cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  