-- Bristol-Myers Targets Heart-Failure Drugs in R&D Effort
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-05-15T20:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/bristol-myers-targets-heart-failure-drugs-in-r-d-effort.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , pouring
resources into new immune system-based cancer drugs, said it
also plans to expand development of treatments for congestive
heart failure and fibrosis.  The drugmaker also isn’t ready to give up on therapies for
the neurodegenerative malady  Alzheimer’s Disease , despite the
failure last year of an experimental compound in the second of
three phases of trials. Bristol-Myers’s researchers discussed
the plans on a call yesterday held by  Tim Anderson , an analyst
with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Bristol-Myers is the  most dependent  of the major U.S.
drugmakers on pharmaceuticals, and has no non-drug businesses
such as animal health or diagnostics. The New York-based company
is ready to expand its research and development areas, said
Elliott Sigal, the outgoing head of R&D at Bristol-Myers.  “About a decade ago, we really reined in the research
efforts and focused on certain areas,” Sigal said. The company
has been “revising them slowly over time as we refine the need
and refine the science.”  Bristol-Myers said there are new opportunities in heart
failure, a field now dominated by generic medicines. “The
reason we want to re-engage is that the science has evolved to
the point where there are interesting targets,” said Brian Daniels, senior vice president of global development.  Bristol-Myers rose 5.1 percent to $44.34 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time, its highest closing price since March 2002, as investors
await new data on two Bristol-Myers’ cancer therapies that will
be released today by the  American Society of Clinical Oncology .  Neuroscience Efforts  The company won’t give up on neuroscience treatments, Sigal
said. “The science and the need is such that for a company our
size, that type of portfolio play is very important,” he said.
Avagacestat, an Alzheimer’s treatment, failed in trials in
December. And Bristol-Myers has an experimental migraine
treatment called BMS-927711 that it may sell.  Sigal will be replaced by new Chief Science Officer Francis Cuss on July 1.  Heart failure is now often treated with drugs to lessen the
cardiovascular system’s workload, classes of therapies known as
beta-blockers and ACE inhibitors.  Bristol-Myers believes it can improve on those drugs,
Daniels said. “There’s significant unmet medical need.”  Heart Failure  About a million people in the U.S. are hospitalized with
congestive heart failure every year, according to the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, and 5.8
million Americans have the disease. Patients with heart failure
can’t pump enough blood to meet the body’s needs, and it’s among
the most common reasons for a hospitalization, according to the
CDC. It can be caused by diabetes, high  blood pressure , or
blocked arteries.  Bristol-Myers will also test new treatments for pulmonary
fibrosis, Cuss said. It may run trials with drugs the company
has developed itself as well as AM152, an experimental therapy
gained with the $325 million purchase of Amira Pharmaceuticals
Inc. in 2011.  Pulmonary fibrosis is a disease of the lungs that affects
about 128,000 people in the U.S., according to the Coalition for
Pulmonary Fibrosis. The disease scars lung tissue, making it
more and more difficult to breathe. There is no known cure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  