-- Buffett’s Berkshire Discloses Chicago Bridge Stake
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-05-15T20:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/buffett-s-berkshire-discloses-chicago-bridge-stake.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  reported a
stake in Chicago Bridge & Iron Co. as billionaire  Warren Buffett 
gives his back-up stock pickers more funds to invest.  Buffett’s firm owned about 6.5 million shares of the energy
construction and engineering company on March 31, Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire said today in a regulatory filing
listing its U.S.  stock portfolio . Berkshire exited stakes in
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , according
to the filing.  Buffett’s deputies, Ted Weschler and Todd Combs, have been
adding holdings as they get more funds to invest. The managers
earn bonuses if their portfolios beat the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. That contrasts with the way Buffett, 82, manages
Berkshire’s money, keeping at least $20 billion in cash partly
to cover potential claims from insurance units.  Combs and Weschler have an incentive “to put that money to
work” if they think there are opportunities to outperform the
market, said  David Kass , a professor at the University of
Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of Business, who has taken
students to meet the billionaire in Omaha. “Buffett wants his
$20 billion rainy-day fund.”  The CB&I stake was valued at more than $400 million at the
end of the first quarter, when The Hague-based company traded
for $62.10 a share. The stock rose 99 cents to $58.75 in
extended trading at 4:15 p.m. in  New York .  Wells Fargo  As chairman and chief executive officer for more than four
decades, Buffett built Berkshire through  acquisitions  that
transformed the textile maker into a business that provides
insurance, hauls freight, manufactures chemicals and sells
products from underwear to diamonds. He also amassed the largest
equity stakes in companies including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  American
Express Co. (AXP)  and Coca-Cola Co.  Buffett’s track record has made him a cult figure for
investors. Berkshire’s  quarterly filings  of its U.S. stock
holdings are studied by mutual funds and individuals looking for
clues about the company’s investment strategy. The filing
doesn’t say who is responsible for each pick.  Berkshire has said that oversight of the $129 billion
stock-and-bond portfolio will fall to Combs and Weschler once
Buffett is no longer running the company. For now, he makes the
larger equity investments, while Combs, 42, and Weschler, 51,
are responsible for smaller bets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  