-- Bulgaria President Calls Talks on Opening New Parliament
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-05-15T13:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/bulgaria-president-calls-talks-on-opening-new-parliament.html
 Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev
will hold talks on May 17 with party leaders before asking
former Premier Boyko Borissov to form a new Cabinet after his
Gerb party won early elections last weekend.  Plevneliev will meet with the four parties entering the new
parliament about when to convene the assembly. The president
wants the session to begin by month’s end and then tap Gerb to
start coalition talks. Gerb took 30.5 percent, while the
Socialist Party garnered 26.61 percent, according to preliminary
results. The Central Electoral Commission releases final results
May 16.  The narrow gap between the two parties’ results may prolong
political tensions that started when Borissov’s Cabinet lost
power in February by anti-austerity protests. Squabbles with
rivals including the Socialists over curing the economic slump,
boosting  tax revenue  and building a 10 billion-euro ($13
billion) nuclear power plant raises concerns about whether
 Bulgaria  will have to call new elections as early as this year.  “Bulgaria needs a working parliament and a government with
clear priorities,” Plevneliev told reporters in Sofia today.  Gerb, which stands for Citizens for the European
Development of Bulgaria, is set to get about 97 seats in the
240-member Parliament, with about 84 seats going to the
Socialists, according to the electoral commission.  The Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which represents the
ethnic Turks in the Balkan country, won 11.29 percent and may
control 36 seats, while the radical nationalist Attack party got
7.3 percent with 23 lawmakers, the commission said.  Limited Options  “With only four parties having qualified for the next
parliament, the room for the political engineering that is
needed to produce a stable ruling coalition looks limited,”
Kristofor Pavlov, the chief economist at UniCredit Bulbank in
Sofia, said in an e-mailed note. “The polarized campaign makes
it unlikely that the elections restored faith in the political
system, which would have reduced the political and social
tension in the country.”  Gerb will comment on plans after official results are
released, the party said in an e-mailed statement after the
vote. Borissov was the only political leader who didn’t hold a
news conference after the elections.  Borissov’s party is seeking the informal support of Attack
to form a minority government, Pressa newspaper reported today,
citing unidentified politicians.  “I hope that by 10 a.m. on Friday, when we are scheduled
to meet with Gerb, we will know whether they accept the
election’s result,” Plevneliev said.  Coalition Strategies  The Socialists and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms
said they are prepared to form a coalition Cabinet, while Attack
said that no government can be formed with the composition of
the new parliament. The Movement ruled out a coalition with
Gerb.  A possible Socialist Cabinet with the Movement would be
“positive news that will help to avoid a return to the polls,”
Pavlov said. “But forming a coalition government is likely to
need either tacit or more formal support from the nationalist
Attack party, which is a clear drawback, given its excessive
fiscal populism and hostile rhetoric toward international
investors.”  Attack leader Volen Siderov said he will only support a
government that would “free Bulgaria of the colonial rule of
international monopolies.”  The Socialists and Attack want to scrap Bulgaria’s current
10 percent flat tax on personal and corporate income and resume
building the Belene nuclear power plant by  Russia ’s Rosatom
Corp. Borissov canceled the project because of a lack of funds
and investors. The Movement wants to keep the flat tax and is
neutral on Belene’s construction.  Former Finance Minister Plamen Oresharski, the Socialists’
choice for premier, told reporters on May 13 that the “economy
and finances are in a free fall” and the most urgent measures
would be to boost budget revenue by curbing contraband and
lifting administrative pressure on businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  