-- Bulgaria’s Economy Expanded for 11th Quarter on Domestic Demand
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-05-15T08:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/bulgaria-s-economy-expanded-for-11th-quarter-on-domestic-demand.html
Bulgaria’s economy expanded for an
11th quarter as rising domestic demand offset a drop in exports
to European nations struggling to emerge from the debt crisis.  Gross domestic product rose 0.4 percent in the first
quarter from a  year earlier , compared with a revised 0.6 percent
increase in the previous three months, the Sofia-based
Statistics Institute said today in a preliminary estimate. The
median estimate of three economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
0.6 percent. Seasonally adjusted GDP advanced 0.1 percent from
the previous quarter.  Unlike some other regional peers, Bulgaria weathered the
global economic crisis without borrowing abroad. The economy of
the European Union’s poorest country by per-capita output relies
on the 27-nation bloc to buy its exports of machinery, metals
and furniture. The previous government of Boyko Borissov
increased investment in road and railway construction, which is
co-financed by the EU.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm in
Brussels, cut  Bulgaria ’s economic growth forecast for this year
to 0.9 percent on May 3 from 1.4 percent on Feb. 22, citing a
“weak labor market” and “fragile external environment.”  The
interim government cut the 2013 GDP growth forecast 1 percent
from a previous estimate of 1.2 percent.  The social protests in February that led to the early
elections on May 12 are “set to have only a limited impact on
economic growth,” the commission said. GDP growth is projected
to “pick up toward the end of the year,” driven by recovery in
the EU and in domestic consumption, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  