-- Bulgaria President May Order Ex-PM to Start Cabinet Talks
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-05-15T09:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/bulgaria-president-may-order-ex-pm-to-start-cabinet-talks.html
Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev
will probably ask former Prime Minister Boyko Borissov to form a
new administration after his Gerb party won May 12 elections and
give a date for Parliament to reconvene.  The president is taking his first post-election step by
scheduling the start of coalition talks as the Central Electoral
Commission prepares to release final results. Gerb took 30.5
percent to the second-place Socialist Party, which garnered
26.61 percent. Plevneliev will make his announcements at 2 p.m.
in Sofia today.  The narrow gap between the two parties’ results may prolong
political tensions that started when Borissov’s Cabinet lost
power in February by anti-austerity protests. Squabbles with
rivals including the Socialists over curing the economic slump,
boosting  tax revenue  and building a 10 billion-euro ($13
billion) nuclear power plant raises concerns about whether
Bulgaria will have to call new elections as early as this year.  “With only four parties having qualified for the next
parliament, the room for the political engineering that is
needed to produce a stable ruling coalition looks limited,”
Kristofor Pavlov, chief economist of UniCredit Bulbank in Sofia,
said in an e-mailed note. “The polarized campaign makes it
unlikely that the elections restored faith in the political
system, which would have reduced the political and social
tension in the country.”  Gerb, which stands for Citizens for the European
Development of Bulgaria, is set to get about 97 seats in the
240-member Parliament, with about 84 seats going to the
Socialists, according to the electoral commission.  Also-Rans  The Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which represents the
ethnic Turks in the Balkan country, won 11.29 percent and may
control 36 seats, while the radical nationalist Attack party got
7.3 percent with 23 lawmakers, the Central Electoral Commission
said.  Gerb will comment on plans after official results are
released, the party said in an e-mailed statement after the
vote. Borissov was the only political leader who didn’t hold a
press conference after the elections. Gerb is seeking the
informal support of Attack to form a minority government, Pressa
newspaper reported today, citing unidentified politicians.  The Socialists and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms
said they are prepared to form a coalition Cabinet, while Attack
said that no government can be formed with the composition of
the new Parliament. The Movement ruled out a coalition with
Gerb.  Socialist Cabinet?  A possible Socialist Cabinet with the Movement would be
“positive news that will help to avoid a return to the polls,”
Pavlov said. “But forming a coalition government is likely to
need either tacit or more formal support from the nationalist
Attack party, which is a clear drawback, given its excessive
fiscal populism and hostile rhetoric toward international
investors.”  Attack leader Volen Siderov said he will only support a
government that would “free  Bulgaria  of the colonial rule of
international monopolies.”  The Socialists and Attack want to scrap Bulgaria’s current
10 percent flat tax on personal and corporate income and resume
building the Belene nuclear power plant by  Russia ’s Rosatom
Corp. Borissov canceled the project because of a lack of funds
and investors. The Movement wants to keep the flat tax and are
neutral on Belene’s construction.  Former Finance Minister Plamen Oresharski, the Socialists’
choice for premier, told reporters on May 13 that the “economy
and finances are in a free fall” and the most urgent measures
would be to boost budget revenue by curbing contraband and
lifting administrative pressure on businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  