-- Cameron Refuses to Rule Out Selling U.K. Stake in RBS at a Loss
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-05-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/cameron-refuses-to-rule-out-selling-u-k-stake-in-rbs-at-a-loss.html
Prime Minister David Cameron refused
to rule out selling the British government’s stake in  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  at a loss as the lender’s management eyes
a sale by late 2014.  Cameron said he is “open to all ideas” when asked
by reporters in New York yesterday whether he would sell the
81 percent holding for less than the government paid in 2008.
The Times newspaper in London said the Treasury is considering a
Policy Exchange proposal under which individual investors would
receive RBS shares and split any gains with the state.  “I keep a very close eye on this and want to make sure
progress is made as fast as possible,” Cameron said. “In terms
of returning RBS to the private sector involving people in
owning this bank in a genuine way, I’m open to all ideas and
proposals.”  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester is struggling to
turn around RBS and begin the process of returning it to private
ownership before the next general election, due in May 2015. The
Edinburgh-based lender, recipient of the biggest banking bailout
in the world, will be ready for sale by the end of 2014,
Chairman Philip Hampton said this week.  “The primary question is getting this bank back into good
health, and then obviously -- there are connections between the
ownership and health -- but step one is to continue the path to
health, and step two is to think about ways of changing its
ownership,” Cameron said.  The shares rose 1.5 percent to 307 pence in  London 
yesterday, below the 407 pence a share the government sees as
break even on its investment. Although the Treasury paid an
average 502 pence a share when RBS got a 46 billion-pound ($70
billion) taxpayer bailout, it has received fees from RBS linked
to the rescue.  Cameron could potentially use the proceeds of a sale to
fund tax cuts or more spending before a general election that
opinion polls indicate his Conservative Party may lose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in New York or  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  