-- Cameron Says Other Parties Have Heads in the Sand Over EU
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-05-15T14:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/cameron-says-other-parties-have-heads-in-the-sand-over-eu-1-.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
other political parties have their heads in the sand over
the European Union as his Conservative lawmakers pushed him to
bring forward a referendum on Britain’s continued membership.  Responding to accusations from his Liberal Democrat deputy,
 Nick Clegg , that the  Conservative Party  is “shifting the
goalposts” over the referendum, Cameron said he is keeping to
his pledge to renegotiate Britain’s membership terms and put the
result to a popular vote by the end of 2017.  “You can make your response sticking your head in the
sand and pretending nothing has changed and just carrying on
and accepting everything that comes out of Brussels,” Cameron
told reporters in  New York  today. “This is not a sensible
approach, although it does seem to be the approach some in
British politics seem to take.”  Cameron’s January pledge of a referendum on whether to stay
in the EU or leave failed to satisfy Tory lawmakers who want the
vote to be held before the 2015 general election. About 70 have
put their names to a parliamentary amendment expressing
‘regret” that the government made no provision for a vote in
the legislative program outlined last week. They will vote on
the amendment today, despite the Conservatives yesterday
publishing a draft bill guaranteeing a referendum by end-2017.  Cameron cannot put his referendum bill forward as
government legislation because his coalition partners, the
Liberal Democrats, oppose it. The opposition  Labour Party  says
uncertainty over Britain’s future in the EU could harm foreign
investment. In an effort to prevent tonight’s vote being
described as a rebellion, the Conservatives declared it to be a
“free” vote.  “The focus should be on the other parties,” Cameron said.
“What is your position, are you going to trust the British
people and allow them to have a say?” Cameron said today.
Standing in for Cameron in Parliament today, Clegg accused the
Tories of ‘shifting the goalposts” on a referendum.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in New York at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  