-- Canada Dollar Ends Four-Day Skid After U.S. Production Declines
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-15T21:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/canadian-dollar-falls-on-speculation-economy-being-left-behind.html
The Canadian dollar gained for the
first time in five days versus its U.S. counterpart after
American industrial production dropped in April by the most in
eight months.  The currency advanced against the majority of its 16 most-traded peers as output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities
fell a more-than-forecast 0.5 percent after a revised 0.3
percent gain in the prior month that was weaker than previously
reported, a report from the  Federal Reserve  showed in
 Washington .  Canada ’s dollar fell to an almost three-week low
earlier as the nation’s factory sales unexpectedly dropped for
the third time in four months  The U.S. “dollar has softened a little bit across the
board on the back of the weaker U.S. data,” David Bradley,
director of foreign exchange trading at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s
Scotia Capital unit, said by phone from Toronto. “We’re just in
an adjustment process now where softness in the Canadian dollar
is catching up to where the rest of the world is.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.2 percent to
C$1.0157 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. after touching C$1.0219,
weakest since April 25. One loonie buys 98.45 U.S. cents.  Canada’s 10-year benchmark  bonds  rose, with yields falling
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.92 percent.
The 1.5 percent note maturing in June 2023 gained 33 cents to
C$96.20.  The  Bank of Canada  sold C$2.7 billion of three-year
bonds at an average yield of 1.242 percent and a bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of securities offered, of 2.71. The 1 percent securities
mature in August 2016.  Oil, Stocks  Futures of crude oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 0.2
percent to $94.42 per barrel in  New York  after touching their
lowest point in almost two weeks. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of U.S. stocks added 0.5 percent.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. counterpart reached their highest point in more
than eight months. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk
reversal rate touched 1.6 percent, the highest since Sept. 6.
Risk reversals measure the premium on options contracts to sell
Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do the
opposite.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart reached 7.38 percent, the
highest level since Feb. 27. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  ‘Laggard’ Canada  Canadian  factory sales  dropped 0.3 percent to C$49.5
billion ($48.4 billion),  Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa,
following the revised February gain of 2.8 percent that was the
biggest rise since July 2011. Economists forecast a 0.5 percent
increase according to the median in a Bloomberg survey with 19
responses.  “We are becoming a little bit of a laggard,” said Don Mikolich, executive director of foreign exchange sales at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in Toronto.  The loonie pared its decline as the U.S. Federal Reserve
Bank of New York’s  general economic index  tumbled to minus 1.4
this month from 3.1 in April. Readings less than zero signal
contraction in New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern
 Connecticut . The median projection in a Bloomberg survey called
for an increase to 4.  Fed Buying  Canada’s factory sales “is maybe ignored to a certain
degree in favor of some of the weakness that we saw in the
Empire survey,”  David Tulk , chief macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, said by phone from Toronto.
“That might suggest the Fed will be purchasing assets over a
longer horizon and as a consequence the U.S. dollar weakens in
that environment and Canada does get a bit of lift.”  The Fed’s quantitative easing program has seen it buying
$85 billion of assets monthly since December in an attempt to
drive down borrowing costs and stimulate the economy. That has a
tendency to debase the currency.  “The  U.S. economy  is still dealing with some very heavy-duty fiscal tightening at this point,”  Doug Porter , chief
economist at the Bank of Montreal, said by phone from Toronto.
“As the fiscal drag begins to become a little less important,
we’ll see that underlying strength a little bit more clearly.”  The Canadian dollar has been the strongest performer in the
developed world in the last month, gaining 3.3 percent against
nine developed-world currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index. The  U.S. dollar  has gained 2.7
percent and the Australian dollar has fallen 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  