-- Canada March Manufacturing Sales Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-05-15T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/canada-march-manufacturing-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s manufacturing shipments report for March released
by Statistics Canada.  Manufacturing sales edged down 0.3% to $49.5 billion in
March, the third decline in four months. The decline largely
reflects lower sales in the petroleum and coal product, and
chemical manufacturing industries. Excluding these industries,
sales rose 0.3%.  Overall, sales declined in 10 of 21 industries,
representing approximately one-third of Canadian manufacturing.  Constant dollar manufacturing sales increased 0.2%,
indicating a slight increase in volumes once prices are taken
into account.  Sales of non-durable goods declined 0.8% to $24.4 billion
and were partially offset by a 0.2% increase in sales of durable
goods.  Bulk of decline in two industries  Lower sales in the petroleum and coal products, and
chemical manufacturing industries were the primary reasons for
the decline in total manufacturing. Petroleum and coal product
sales dropped 2.6% in March to $6.9 billion--the lowest level
since July 2012. Lower prices were a major factor in the
decrease.  Sales in the chemical manufacturing industry declined 2.0%
to $3.9 billion in March, the second drop in nine months. Colder
weather in many parts of the country in March may have
contributed to weaker than normal fertilizer sales.  These declines were partially offset by higher sales in the
plastics and rubber products, and motor vehicle industries.
Sales of plastics and rubber products advanced 3.7% on
widespread increases across the industry. Motor vehicle
manufacturers reported a 1.5% increase in sales to $4.3 billion,
the second consecutive monthly increase.  Sales drop in Saskatchewan and New Brunswick  Sales fell in six provinces in March with most of the
decreases reported by manufacturers in  New Brunswick  (-9.5%) and
Saskatchewan (-7.7%). Sales of non-durable goods fell 13.2% in
New Brunswick and 10.5% in Saskatchewan.  Partially offsetting these declines was a 30.7% increase in
sales in Newfoundland and Labrador. There was very little change
in the sales in other provinces.  Inventories largely unchanged  Manufacturing inventories decreased 0.1% in March. A 1.6%
drop in goods-in-process was largely responsible for the decline.
This was mostly offset by increases of 0.3% in finished products
and 0.7% in stocks of raw materials.  The largest drop in inventories occurred in aerospace
product and parts where inventories fell 3.8%, driven by a
decrease in goods-in-process. Non-metallic mineral product
inventories fell 6.0%, reflecting a 27.4% drop in goods-in-process.  Lower inventories in those industries were largely offset
by higher inventories in the petroleum and coal product (+3.4%),
and chemical manufacturing (+2.8%) industries. In particular,
the petroleum and coal product industry recorded a 10.2% rise in
raw materials, while chemical producers reported a 4.1% increase
in finished products.  The inventory-to-sales ratio held steady at 1.39 in March.  Unfilled orders decrease  Unfilled orders decreased 1.1% to $71.1 billion in March,
following four consecutive months of gains. The drop in unfilled
orders reflects lower unfilled orders in the aerospace product
and parts, and fabricated metal product industries.  Unfilled orders of aerospace product and parts were 1.1%
lower in March. The decrease largely reflects the appreciation
of the Canadian dollar from February to March. Most of the
industry’s unfilled orders are held in US dollars. Fabricated
metal products’ unfilled orders declined 3.0% in March. This
drop was widespread across the industry as many of the largest
establishments reported lower unfilled orders.  New orders dropped 2.2% to $48.7 billion. The decrease was
caused by a decline in new orders received in the transportation
equipment industry.  Note to readers  With this release, the Monthly Survey of Manufacturing
(MSM) has published new estimates based on an updated survey
sample as well as revisions to historical data. Estimates of
sales of goods manufactured, inventories and orders have been
revised back to January 2009 for unadjusted data and back to
January 2007 for seasonally adjusted data.  These new estimates result from five principal changes:  1. The re-stratification of the MSM sample  Re-stratification refreshes the sample and updates the
database to reflect on-going Business Register changes. The
sample size remained about the same (approximately 10,500
establishments), but about 50% of the establishments in the
sample were replaced to avoid long-term respondent burden. The
new sample, introduced with the December 2012 reference month,
is linked at the detailed level to prevent data breaks and
ensure the continuity of the time series. It is designed to be
more representative of the manufacturing industry at both the
national and provincial levels.  2. Data confrontation between the MSM and the 2011 Annual Survey
of Manufactures and Logging (ASML)  Data confrontation using the revised 2010 and preliminary
2011 ASML estimates was completed, along with historical
revisions to MSM data. This is an annual process undertaken to
ensure that the data for the largest units in both the annual
and monthly surveys are consistent.  3. Updates to X-12 ARIMA seasonal adjustment models  As in past years, trading-day weights and analysis of
trends, levels and moving averages have been updated and revised.
This ensures that seasonally adjusted data accurately reflect
the latest developments in manufacturing.  4. Conversion from NAICS 2007 to NAICS 2012  Statistics Canada , the Economic Classification Policy
Committee of the  United States , and  Mexico ’s Instituto Nacional
de Estadística y Geografía have agreed upon minor revisions to
the North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS)
effective for 2012 onwards. NAICS 2012 has been implemented for
MSM data back to 2009 with this release.  5. Revisions to the constant dollar series  The Industry Accounts Division and the National Economic
Accounts Division have updated the constant dollar series, based
on the revised MSM data. The volumes data were revised back to
January 2002. Additionally, the reference year for the Monthly
Survey of Manufacturing volume data has been changed from 2002
to 2007.  Monthly data in this release are seasonally adjusted and
are expressed in current dollars unless otherwise specified.  Non-durable goods industries include food, beverage and
tobacco products, textile mills, textile product mills, clothing,
leather and allied products, paper, printing and related support
activities, petroleum and coal products, chemicals, and plastics
and rubber products.  Durable goods industries include wood products, non-metallic mineral products, primary metal, fabricated metal
products, machinery, computer and electronic products,
electrical equipment, appliances and components, transportation
equipment, furniture and related products, and miscellaneous
manufacturing.  Production-based industries  For the  aerospace industry  and shipbuilding industries, the
value of production is used instead of sales of goods
manufactured. This value is calculated by adjusting monthly
sales of goods manufactured by the monthly change in inventories
of goods in process and finished products manufactured.  Unfilled orders are a stock of orders that will contribute
to future sales assuming that the orders are not cancelled.  New orders are those received whether sold in the current
month or not. New orders are measured as the sum of sales for
the current month plus the change in unfilled orders from the
previous month to the current month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  