-- CBS Plans Five New Shows for September
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-05-15T20:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/cbs-with-most-watched-prime-time-schedule-plans-five-new-shows.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , relying on a prime-time
schedule that already outdraws all competitors, will introduce
four new comedies and one drama for the new television season.  The network’s 2013-2014 schedule includes series featuring
Robin Williams and Sarah Michelle Gellar, and the new serialized
drama “Hostages,” the network said today in a statement. CBS
is creating a two-hour comedy block on Thursdays.  Come September, CBS is bringing back 20 shows. With a
schedule that already includes “NCIS,” the most-viewed drama
on television, the network has fewer slots for new programs. For
the first time in two decades, CBS is poised to finish the
current season as most-watched in total viewers and in the
marketer-sought 18-to-49-year-old category.  “This isn’t a fluky thing where one show drives
everything,” Senior Vice President Kelly Kahl said at a
presentation of the new schedule today in New York, where CBS is
based. “This is a schedule that’s built to last.”  CBS, controlled by Chairman Sumner Redstone, rose 0.7
percent to $50.40 at the close in New York. The stock has
advanced 32 percent this year, compared with a 16 percent gain
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 index.  The Thursday comedy block starts with the network’s top-rated “The Big Bang Theory,” a lead-in for “The Millers”
featuring Will Arnett as a recently divorced local news
reporter. It’s followed by “The Crazy Ones,” with the film and
TV comic Williams as the head of an advertising agency. Gellar,
best-known as “Buffy the Vampire Slayer” from the TV series,
plays his daughter.  Monday Shows  On Mondays CBS is introducing the new comedies “We Are
Men” and “Mom.” “Men” focuses on missteps in love for four
bachelors living in a temporary housing complex and includes
Tony Shalhoub in one of the title roles. “Mom” stars Anna Faris as a newly sober single mother.  The network’s new drama for the first half of the season,
“Hostages,” is a suspense thriller from producer Jerry Bruckheimer scheduled for Monday nights. The show stars Toni Collette as a surgeon whose family is taken by a rogue FBI agent
played by Dylan McDermott.  The network plans to introduce two dramas and one comedy in
the second half of the season next year, according to today’s
statement.  Through May 12, CBS is averaging 11.9 million viewers a
night, 1.4 percent more than a year earlier, according to
Nielsen data. It’s attracting 3.68 million nightly in the 18-to-49 demographic, a decline of 3.4 percent.  U.S. TV networks are introducing new shows ahead of
meetings with their biggest advertisers to obtain commitments
and set ad rates for the TV season that begins in September.  New Lineups  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, which announced its schedule on May
12, picked up three dramas and three comedies, including “The
Michael J. Fox Show.”  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox said on May 13 it will
add nine programs, including the comedy “Dads” from Seth MacFarlane and the drama “Almost Human” from “Star Trek”
producer J.J. Abrams.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC added five comedies
and seven dramas, including “Marvel’s Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.,”
based on the secret agency from Marvel’s “The Avengers” movie.  Ad spending on network television is projected to decline 2
percent this year to $16.9 billion, and total TV advertising,
including cable networks, will increase 2.8 percent to $63.9
billion, slowing from 7.1 percent in 2012, according to
ZenithOptimedia,  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) ’s research division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  