-- LCH.Clearnet Triples Fee for LME Before End of Clearing Deal
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-05-15T16:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/lch-clearnet-triples-fee-for-lme-before-end-of-clearing-deal-1-.html
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., which clears
trades made on the  London  Metal Exchange, plans to triple a fee
levied on contracts before the LME takes over clearing itself
next year.  The so-called registration fee will rise to 15 pence (23
U.S. cents) a contract from 5 pence as of June 1 for so-called
clearing members of the LME, London-based LCH.Clearnet said
today in a  statement . That includes companies from Jefferies
Group LLC to Deutsche Bank AG, the LME’s website showed.  LCH.Clearnet,  Europe ’s biggest clearinghouse, said it has
spent money on tasks including regulatory compliance and
improved risk-management services. That meant higher charges
were necessary, Alberto Pravettoni, chief executive officer of
repo and exchanges at the clearinghouse, said in the statement.  “Customers won’t pay higher commissions, so it means
member firms eat costs again,”  Andrew Patterson , head of metals
trading at Newedge Group SA in London, said by e-mail. The
company is an LME clearing member.  Clearinghouses stand between buyers and sellers to reduce
the risk of default and have become more valuable as regulators
seek to increase central clearing of derivatives. LME Clear, the
exchange’s own clearinghouse, is still on track to start
operating next year, bourse spokeswoman Miriam Heywood said by
phone today.  $14.5 Trillion  The LME is the world’s largest marketplace for industrial
metals from aluminum to zinc and handled 159.7 million contracts
worth $14.5 trillion last year. Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd. bought the bourse in 2012 for $2.2 billion.  The increased fee will apply to Newedge and the LME’s 10
other so-called Category 1  members  as well as the 29 Category 2
members. All of the 40 members can make trades electronically
and by phone, and the Category 1 members also are authorized to
trade on the exchange’s floor.  Higher clearing fees mean “increased cost on everybody’s
business,” said Simon Van Den Born, London-based global head of
metals at Marex Spectron Group, a Category 1 member.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  