-- Chelsea Wins Europa League on Ivanovic’s Stoppage-Time Goal
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-15T23:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/chelsea-defeats-benfica-2-1-in-final-of-soccer-s-europa-league.html
Chelsea became the first team to hold
both major European club soccer trophies at the same time by
beating Benfica 2-1 in the Europa League final.  Branislav Ivanovic’s stoppage-time header secured the win
last night in Amsterdam after Oscar Cardozo’s penalty kick for
Benfica tied Fernando Torres’s 60th-minute opener. Chelsea’s
victory in Europe’s second-tier club competition follows its
elite Champions League title last year.  “It’s been an amazing time for all of us in the last two
years,” midfielder Frank Lampard, who captained Chelsea in
place of the injured John Terry, said in a televised interview.
“Talk about ups and down. It’s a big up in the end.”  Chelsea, which became the fourth club to win all three
major European competitions, will hold both titles for 10 days
until German clubs Borussia Dortmund and Bayern Munich meet in
the Champions League final on May 25 in  London .  Benfica, a two-time European Cup winner, had been seeking
to end a 51-year trophy drought in continental competition and
fell to its seventh straight defeat in a European title match.  “We played an excellent final, but just lacked that bit of
luck we deserved,” Benfica coach Jorge Jesus said on the
website of tournament organizer UEFA.  Chelsea had dropped into the Europa League this season
after becoming the first Champions League titleholder to be
eliminated in the group stage.  It’s the second time Blues interim manager Rafael Benitez
has won the competition, after guiding Valencia to victory in
2004 when it was known as the UEFA Cup. Benitez joins Giovanni Trapattoni of Juventus and Inter Milan as the only coaches to
win the title with more than one club.  ‘Not Easy’  “It was not easy, we have been talking about this all the
time, so I am really pleased, really proud,” Benitez told ITV.
“It was a great performance in the second half. We had some
problems in the first half against a very good team.”  Benfica controlled play before the break with the best
chances coming from Cardozo and Nicolas Gaitan’s shots over
goal, while goalkeeper Artur reached back to knock Lampard’s
swerving shot out for a corner kick.  The Portuguese team began the second half on the offensive
and Cardozo was ruled offside as he headed in Gaitan’s cross.  Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech then saved Eduardo Salvio’s
header and started a counterattack with a throw that Juan Mata
flicked on to Torres. The Spanish striker held off defender
Luisao, went around Artur and shot into the open net.  The lead lasted eight minutes as Cardozo scored from the
penalty spot after Cesar Azpilicueta’s handball. Cech then
tipped Cardozo’s shot over the crossbar.  Looping Header  After Lampard hit the bar in the 88th minute, Ivanovic hung
in the air to score with a looping header off Mata’s corner
kick. Benfica had one last chance, though Gary Cahill’s sliding
tackle prevented Cardozo from getting a shot on goal.  Chelsea joins Juventus, Ajax and Bayern Munich as the only
clubs to win all three major European competitions: the European
Cup/Champions League, UEFA Cup/Europa League and the Cup
Winners’ Cup. Benfica’s last title came in 1962, when it
captured back-to-back European Cups.  “It’s a great feeling,” Ivanovic, who was suspended for
last year’s Champions League final, told ITV. “This team
deserves this. We have had a difficult season with a lot of
games. Now it’s time to celebrate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 