-- Chile Peso Falls to Lowest Level This Year on Rate-Cut Prospects
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-05-15T16:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/chile-peso-falls-to-lowest-level-this-year-on-rate-cut-prospects.html
Chile ’s peso dropped to its lowest
level of the year as signs of economic deceleration led traders
to project central bank rate cuts.  The currency depreciated for a seventh straight day,
falling 0.3 percent to 478.85 per  U.S. dollar  at 11:39 a.m. in
Santiago, the weakest level on a closing basis since Dec. 31. It
was the longest stretch of losses since February.  Chile’s  economic activity growth  slowed to 3.1 percent in
March from a year earlier, the weakest since 2011. Central bank
President Rodrigo Vergara said on May 8 that the peso had little
room left for appreciation, and he didn’t rule out intervention.  “The market is pricing in rate cuts after the activity
data came out,” said Alejandro Araya, a currency trader at
Banco Santander Chile in Santiago. “Chilean rates remain
generous compared to developed markets, and the peso will
probably find a level around 480 per dollar.”  The central bank has left its benchmark rate at 5 percent
since January last year. It will probably leave borrowing costs
unchanged at its meeting tomorrow, according to all 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Since reaching a 19-month high on April 8, the peso has
fallen 2.5 percent, more than any emerging-market currency
except the South African rand and the Polish zloty. The currency
slid earlier today to 479.78 per dollar, breaching 479.25, its
20-day upper Bollinger band. Technical analysts use Bollinger
levels to forecast moves in currencies.  Strategists at Barclays Plc, Bank of America Corp., BNP
Paribas SA and Nomura Holdings Inc. have recommended betting
against the peso.  Foreign investors in the forwards market increased their
short position in the peso by $3 billion this month to $8.3
billion on May 13, according to central bank data published
today. That is their biggest bet against the currency since
November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  