-- China Money Rate Declines to One-Month Low on Foreign Inflows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-15T03:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/china-money-rate-declines-to-one-month-low-on-foreign-inflows.html
China’s money-market rate fell to a
one-month low on speculation rising foreign inflows are boosting
the supply of cash.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for three-month
bills today, after issuing 27 billion  yuan  ($4.4 billion) of the
securities yesterday, according to a trader required to bid at
the auctions.  Yuan positions  at Chinese financial institutions
stemming from foreign-exchange transactions, a gauge of cross-border flows, rose 1.22 trillion yuan in the first three months
of 2013, more than four times as much as in the same period last
year, the latest central bank data show.  “The rising foreign capital inflows are probably one of
the reasons supporting liquidity,” said Song Qiuhong, a bond
analyst at Foshan Shunde Rural Commercial Bank Co. in Foshan, a
city in the southern province of Guangdong.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped three basis points to 2.77 percent
as of 11:40 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average
rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It
touched 2.5 percent earlier, the lowest level since April 10.  The central bank also asked lenders to submit orders for
28-day repurchase contracts and 14-day reverse-repurchase
agreements, said the trader.  Premier  Li Keqiang  said there is limited room for using
stimulus and direct  government investment  to achieve China’s
development targets for this year, according to a transcript
published last night on the government’s website.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.24 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Andrew Janes, Anil Varma  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 