-- China Yuan Declines as Lower Central Bank Fixing Forces Retreat
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-05-15T09:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/china-yuan-declines-as-lower-central-bank-fixing-forces-retreat.html
China’s  yuan  fell after the central
bank lowered its  reference rate , forcing the currency to weaken
to stay within the permitted trading range.  The People’s Bank of China cut the  fixing  0.06 percent to
6.2070 per dollar as the  Dollar Index (DXY)  climbed to the highest
since July. The fixing was 1.03 percent weaker than yesterday’s
closing level in the  spot market . Premier  Li Keqiang  said the
economy faces “relatively large” downward pressures and there
is limited room for stimulus, according to the transcript of a
speech posted on the central government’s website.  The yuan declined 0.05 percent to close at 6.1459 per
dollar in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The currency, which has strengthened 1.4 percent
this year, is allowed to trade as much as 1 percent either side
of the daily fixing.  “The dollar’s strength has driven a retreat in Asian
currencies including the yuan,” said Patrick Cheng, a foreign-exchange analyst at Haitong International Securities Co. in Hong
Kong. “Yuan appreciation is likely to slow as the government
will no longer stimulate the economy aggressively. The days of
rapid growth are gone as the new leadership seeks a more
balanced economy.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch reduced its estimate for
China’s 2013 economic growth to 7.6 percent from 8 percent,
according to a note from economists including Ting Lu in  Hong
Kong . The reasons for the cut include base effects and sluggish
external demand, Lu said.  Band Widening  In Hong Kong, the offshore yuan was steady at 6.1429 per
dollar, from yesterday’s 6.1421, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards declined 0.09
percent to 6.2276, a 1.4 percent discount to the onshore
exchange rate.  China may widen the yuan’s trading band in the next three
months after the foreign-exchange regulator announced rules to
deter speculative funds from betting on appreciation, Patrick Wu,
head of yuan trading at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in an
interview in Shanghai yesterday.  One-month implied volatility in the yuan, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
climbed three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.89
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  