-- China Granted Access to Arctic Club as Resource Race Heats Up
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-05-15T11:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/china-granted-access-to-arctic-club-as-resource-race-heats-up.html
China  was granted observer status by
the Arctic Council, giving the world’s second-largest economy
more influence amid an intensifying search for resources in the
globe’s most northern region.  The eight-member council at a summit today in Kiruna,
Sweden, also granted observer status to Japan, India,  Italy ,
Singapore, and the Republic of  Korea . The European Union
application was deferred until members are satisfied that issues
of concern -- largely Canadian objections about EU restrictions
on seal products -- have been allayed.  “The symbolic importance for China shouldn’t be
understated,” said Malte Humpert, executive director of the
Arctic Institute, a Washington policy group. “China has
identified the Arctic as a strategically and geopolitically
valuable region,” and  “having a seat at the table, albeit
only as a permanent observer, has long been an essential part of
the country’s regional strategy.”  The number of new observers reflects interest in the
region’s burgeoning economic opportunities as climate change
alters the physical landscape. Rapidly melting ice is opening
new shipping routes that will make the trip from  Europe  to Asia
shorter and cheaper during the summer months. The softening of
Arctic ice could also bring within reach the 30 percent of the
world’s undiscovered natural gas reserves and 13 percent of its
undiscovered oil that lie under the  Arctic Ocean  floor,
according to the U.S. Geological Survey estimates.  Arctic Values  As Arctic ice melt has increased the region’s economic
potential, the Arctic Council, founded in 1996, has been
evolving from a diplomatic forum into a “decision-making
body,” according to the Council’s outgoing chairman, Sweden’s
Arctic Ambassador Gustav Lind.  That has boosted interest on the part of many countries in
becoming an observer. It also made the council’s consensus
decision about which countries can join the current observers --
 France ,  Spain ,  Germany , the Netherlands, the U.K. and  Poland  --
a closely watched piece of business.  Giving China enhanced status undermines the council’s own
emphasis on democracy, respect for indigenous people and civil
society, according to critics such as Ellen Bork of the
Washington-based Foreign Policy Institute.  Long engaged in scientific research in the Arctic, China in
recent years signed its first European trade pact with  Iceland 
and built that country’s largest embassy. Former Premier  Wen Jiabao  started his European tour last year in Iceland.  Another Africa  China and its companies are investing in Russian Arctic oil
ventures and mining in Greenland. Its Snow Dragon ice breaker
took an 85-day voyage across the northern route last year, the
first time in history a Chinese vessel crossed the Arctic Ocean.
This summer, a Chinese shipping firm plans to make the country’s
first commercial voyage through the Arctic Ocean to Europe and
the U.S.  “The Arctic is another  Africa  for China,” Humpert said in
an interview, referring to China’s investment in Africa for its
natural resources. “With minimal investment, they can be in a
position, twenty, thirty, fifty years down the road, to yield a
big return and have a controlling influence.”  Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt said that admitting six
news observers “demonstrates the broad international acceptance
of the role of the Arctic Council, because by being observer,
these organizations and states, they accept the principles and
the sovereignty of the Arctic Council on Arctic issues.”  Bork, director of  Human Rights  at the institute, had urged
China’s application to be turned down because it doesn’t reflect
council values. Those values, as described by a U.S.
administration official, include respect for sovereignty, a
willingness to abide by existing legal frameworks, particularly
the UN Law of the Sea, and respect for indigenous peoples of the
region. The official wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  Beijing’s Record  Beijing’s track record in  Tibet , where “policies of
repression, environmental degradation, and the influx of ethnic
Han Chinese into Tibet” reveal little respect for indigenous
people, Bork said.  China also aggressively contests its neighbors’ claims of
sovereignty in the  South China Sea  and  East China Sea . Last
week, the Chinese Communist Party’s official newspaper, People’s
Daily, suggested China might own Okinawa, a major Japanese
island home to 1.3 million people.  “Clearly this behavior falls short of the respect for
other states’ sovereignty required of observers,” Bork said.  With China and other countries preparing to increase
shipping through the Arctic Ocean, a body of water roughly the
size of  Russia , Council members -- Russia, Finland, Denmark,
 Sweden , Norway, Iceland, the U.S. and Canada, plus indigenous
groups -- today signed a treaty on oil-spill preparedness to set
out shared responsibilities in the event of a disaster.  Oil Spills  “We have to be prepared for surprises, and we need to
increase the capacity to adapt and to grapple with conflicting
priorities,” said Annika E. Nilsson, the scientific coordinator
on a study of the resilience of the Arctic’s environment and
communities that was released today.  The study found that “Arctic sea ice is melting faster
than global models predict,” said Sarah Cornell, lead author of
threshold analysis on the study by the University of Stockholm
and the Stockholm Environment Institute.  As part of its effort to consider the environment, the
council also considered assessments on biodiversity, ocean
acidification and an ocean review. It reaffirmed its intent to
improve economic and social conditions for the region’s native
peoples, to act on  climate change  and protect the environment.  Last summer, the amount of ice covering the Arctic Ocean
had shrunk by half compared with average measurements from 1980
to 2000, according to the Arctic Institute. The thickness of the
remaining ice had dwindled by 80 percent. Within three to five
years, the Arctic Ocean, a body of water roughly the size of
Russia, could be ice-free in the summer, according to a White
House estimate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Kiruna at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
Niklas Magnusson in Kiruna, Sweden at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  