-- Cloning With Caffeine Produces Patient-Matched Stem Cells
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-05-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/cloning-with-caffeine-produces-patient-matched-stem-cells.html
Scientists have created embryonic
 stem cells  that are a near identical genetic match to patients,
an advance that could enable transplants and treatments based on
an individual’s own tissues.  The researchers, at  Oregon Health & Science University  in
 Portland , made embryonic stem cells through a procedure known as
somatic cell nuclear transfer, which involved taking DNA from
skin cells and inserting it into donated human egg cells. The
resulting stem cells thrived and could be turned into a variety
of cell and tissue types, including heart cells, according to
the study published in the journal Cell.  The advance was enabled by a surprising ingredient,
according to the report:  caffeine (KO)  gave the cells the boost they
needed to remodel the donor DNA into embryonic cells.  “It is a significant step,” said Dieter Egli, senior
research fellow at the  New York Stem Cell Foundation Research
Institute . If embryonic stem cells “can be made from adults
like us, that would mean we could make replacements for any type
of cells we would need.”  The study improves on results from two years ago at the New
York Stem Cell Foundation and  Columbia University , where
researchers, including Egli, created the first embryonic stem
cells using human eggs. While the cells from that research had
an extra set of chromosomes that made them useless for
therapeutic purposes, the new study describes a different method
that tackles the problem.  Caffeine Ingredient  Using a technique similar to that used to create Dolly the
cloned sheep in 1996, scientists removed the nucleus from a
donated human egg cell and replaced it with the nucleus of a
skin cell. By adapting procedures from the previous work, they
grew the cells into colonies of embryonic stem cells that
differentiated into a variety of cells and tissues, said
Shoukhrat Mitalipov, senior author of the study and professor at
Oregon Health & Science University.  A limitation in the prior study involved the difficulty in
removing the egg cell’s nucleus. In that study, researchers
inserted a second nucleus into the cell, defeating the purpose
of creating patient-specific cells, Mitalipov said.  Caffeine turned out to be an important step in solving the
problem this time around, according to Egli, who wasn’t involved
in the study. “They found that if you add caffeine, you can
correct the defect introduced by removing the oocyte genome,”
he said in a telephone interview.  Caffeine has been used in animal cloning, including by
 Keith Campbell , who cloned Dolly the sheep, Egli said. “It
seems to enhance programming efficiency.”  Next Step  Mitalipov said a next step is to compare these embryonic
stem cells with induced pluripotent stem cells, adult cells that
have been coaxed back to an immature state. Work leading to so-called iPS cells, by Shinya Yamanaka and John B. Gurdon, won the
 Nobel Prize  in Physiology or Medicine in 2012.  “We produced a new class of stem cells,” Mitalipov said.
“Now we’d like to compare these SCNT-derived stem cells to iPS
cells and see which one produces the best results.”  The hope is that one day, patients with diseases from
Parkinson’s to diabetes could benefit from regenerative medicine
using their own genetic material.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  