-- CommonWealth REIT Renames Trustee After Votes Fall Short
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-05-15T16:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/commonwealth-reit-renames-trustee-after-votes-fall-short.html
CommonWealth REIT (CWH) , the U.S. office
landlord whose second-largest investors are seeking to oust the
board, said one of its trustees has been reappointed after
failing to receive enough  shareholder  votes for election.  Joseph Morea resigned from the board after receiving less
than the majority of votes required to be re-elected at
CommonWealth’s annual meeting, the Newton, Massachusetts-based
real estate investment trust said today in a statement. The
board determined that the vote was the result of the company’s
battle with investors Corvex Management LP and Related Cos. and
not because of any personal failings, CommonWealth said.  “In these circumstances, and because the board’s
determination that Mr. Morea’s continued service and leadership
would be in the trust’s best interest, the board requested that
Mr. Morea accept appointment to the vacancy created by his
resignation,” CommonWealth said. “Mr. Morea subsequently
accepted appointment as an independent trustee.”  Morea was named to the board in July. He is a retired
banker who previously worked as head of U.S. equity markets for
 RBC Capital Markets , according to the REIT. RBC was one of the
underwriters of the company’s share sale earlier this year that
the investors tried to block.  External Manager  Corvex, founded by activist investor Keith Meister, and
Related, the New York-based property developer, are soliciting
votes to remove the trustees, claiming that an overlap in board
membership and the ownership of an external management firm,
Reit Management & Research LLC, has led to conflicts of interest
and mismanagement. CommonWealth has said it is better off with
its management structure and its shares will rise as it focuses
on its strategy of owning downtown office buildings.  The REIT’s president, Adam Portnoy, and his father, Barry,
a company founder, sit on CommonWealth’s five-member board and
are owners of Reit Management & Research.  “Shareholders sent a resounding message that they are
displeased with the status quo -– followed by an undeniable
response from the board that they have complete and utter
disregard for their rights and will stop at nothing to further
the Portnoys’ self-serving agenda,” Corvex and Related said in
a statement today. “To be clear, we are not attempting a
hostile takeover, but rather are pursuing the only path to put
an end to CommonWealth’s continued value destruction and
egregious  corporate-governance  practices.”  ‘Highly Problematic’  The move by CommonWealth’s board is common, said  Charles Elson , director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate
Governance at the  University of Delaware .  “It’s a case where shareholder suffrage should trump the
board’s authority to put someone back on,” Elson said in a
telephone interview. “It is routinely done and it’s highly
problematic.”  Proxy advisory firms  Glass Lewis  & Co. and ISS Proxy
Advisory Services recommended that investors vote against
Morea’s re-election because of CommonWealth’s “recent defensive
actions, combined with a history of poor corporate governance
(at the trust as well as its affiliates),” Glass Lewis said in
an April 25 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  