-- Commodity Trader Failure Seen as Limited Economic Risk in Study
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-05-15T10:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/commodity-trader-failure-seen-as-limited-economic-risk-in-study.html
Any failure of a commodity trader
wouldn’t pose a substantial systemic risk to the economy and
competitors probably would fill the space, according to Craig Pirrong, professor of finance at the  University of Houston .  Commodity merchants aren’t as leveraged as banks, their
balance sheets are smaller and they have short-term liabilities,
said Pirrong, who undertook a study for the Global Financial
Markets  Association  on whether such companies are too big to
fail.  “The basic conclusion was that they don’t pose substantial
systemic risk,” Pirrong said in a phone interview yesterday.
“They are substantially different from banks in a variety of
important ways and as a result they should not be a major
regulatory concern.”  Commodity merchants are expanding their activities and
hiring traders from banks as lenders overhaul raw materials
businesses amid a regulatory push to raise  capital requirements 
and curb proprietary trading. While there’s some “head-to-head” competition between traders and banks, the two models are
more “complementary,” Pirrong said.  “The existing regulations limit the ability of banks to be
competitive with the trading firms,” Pirrong said. “Just
because imposed regulation had many bad features on banks, it
doesn’t mean you need to impose the same bad things on other
commodity firms.”  Vitol Group the world’s largest independent oil trader,
reported revenue of $303 billion last year and Trafigura Beheer
BV’s  sales  were $120.4 billion.  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the
largest listed commodity merchant, had $189.7 billion in
marketing  revenue  last year.  GFMA chose not to publish the study, which was submitted in
July, Pirrong said. The report has been provided to regulators
and won’t be made more widely available, GFMA spokesman  James
White  said by phone and by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  