-- Commerzbank Jumps Most in Four Years as Share Sale Begins
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-05-15T11:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/commerzbank-jumps-most-in-four-years-after-selling-shares.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the German bank that
got an 18.2 billion-euro ($23.5 billion) government bailout,
surged the most in almost four years as it sold new shares to
repay taxpayers and bolster capital.  The stock rose as much as 18 percent, the biggest gain
since July 2009, and climbed 15 percent to 8 euros at 1:25 p.m,
in Frankfurt. That pared losses this year to 25 percent compared
with an increase of 10 percent for the 40-member  Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index .  Commerzbank is offering 2.5 billion euros of new shares
from today until May 28 to make final debt repayments to the
German state and insurer  Allianz SE (ALV)  and to meet tighter capital
rules. The plan and the recent decline of the share price
prompted Bank of America Merrill Lynch to raise its
recommendation on Commerzbank to buy and set a 12-month price
estimate of 10 euros a share.  “This is an attractive opportunity,” BofA analyst Johan Ekblom wrote in an e-mailed report to clients. A re-rating of
the stock by investors may “make Commerzbank one of the best-performing European bank stocks this summer,” he said.  Government Sells  The bank is offering shareholders 20 new shares for every
21 shares they own at 4.5 euros apiece in the capital increase.
Meantime,  Germany ’s state-run rescue fund Soffin completed the
placement of about 625 million euros of Commerzbank shares at 7
euros apiece as part of the bank’s plan to repay taxpayers,
Soffin said in an e-mailed statement.  Soffin, which is participating fully in the capital
increase, will get a remaining 1 billion euros in cash from
Commerzbank as the company pays back the final 1.63 billion
euros of the 16.4 billion euros in silent participations it
borrowed in the bailout during 2008 and 2009. The debt is a form
of non-voting capital.  Investors are now purchasing Commerzbank’s shares as recent
declines don’t reflect the bank’s value and prospects, said
Ronny Rehn, an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.  “The stock is looking much cheaper,” Rehn, who raised his
 recommendation  on the shares to the equivalent of hold from sell
today, said by telephone from  London . “This is an indication
that there will be enough demand for the bank’s share sale.”  The government, which owns 25 percent of Commerzbank, will
have reduced its stake to about 17 percent following the capital
increase, Soffin said.  Allianz Debt  Commerzbank is also repaying the 750 million euros it owes
Allianz from the cash raised in the share sale. Allianz Chief
Financial Officer Dieter Wemmer declined to say whether the
Munich-based company, which has a 2.84 percent stake in
Commerzbank, would take part in the capital increase on a 
conference call with reporters.  The bank’s common equity Tier 1 ratio under full Basel III
rules, a key measure of financial strength, will increase to 8.4
percent from 7.5 percent after the share sale. The ratio is
expected to rise to 9 percent by the end of next year, the
company said in a statement yesterday.  While Commerzbank’s capital levels will still lag behind
those of some of its competitors, “the near-term dilution risk
is minimal” for shareholders, Ekblom said.  Three of 33 analysts recommend buying Commerzbank’s shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average price
estimate for the stock is 7.90 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  