-- Continental AG to Keep Capital Spending at $2.58 Billion
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-05-15T08:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/continental-ag-to-keep-capital-spending-at-2-58-billion.html
Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts maker, will maintain investments in 2013 at
last year’s level of 2 billion euros ($2.58 billion) as global
production of cars and light trucks rises 2.5 percent.  Spending will be focused on expanding tire plants in the
U.S.,  Russia , China and  Brazil , as well as researching
technology such as vehicle suspension and driver-assistance
electronics, Chief Executive Officer Elmar Degenhart said.
Vehicle production worldwide will probably increase to 83
million units this year, he said.  “We are currently preparing those functions that will be
installed in tomorrow’s cars,” Degenhart said in the text of a
speech to be delivered today at the annual  shareholders’ meeting 
in Continental’s headquarters city of Hanover,  Germany .  Continental, also Europe’s second-largest tiremaker, has
sustained profit with a focus on supplying high-end auto
manufacturers with parts such as safety sensors, emergency-brake
systems and fuel-injection technology. The company reiterated
targets today for sales growth and a limited decline in
profitability this year.  First-quarter earnings before interest and taxes fell 5.1
percent to 747 million euros because of a decline at the
tiremaking division. Ebit adjusted for acquisition-related costs
and one-time gains or charges narrowed to 10 percent of sales
from a restated 10.7 percent a year earlier. Revenue dropped 3.4
percent to 8.03 billion euros.  The parts maker is shrugging off the first-quarter declines
as it prepares for a bond buyback to reduce interest costs.
Continental is sticking to forecasts that revenue will rise by
about 5 percent to exceed 34 billion euros this year, with
adjusted Ebit amounting to more than 10 percent of revenue. The
margin was 10.8 percent in 2012.  Degenhart reiterated statements from two months ago that
the company may be ready for an acquisition of as much as 1
billion euros, probably outside of  Europe  and independent of the
car industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Hanover at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  