-- Copper Declines to One-Week Low on Slowing Growth, Ample Supply
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-05-15T18:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/copper-reaches-one-week-low-as-economies-weaken-and-stocks-swell.html
Copper fell to a one-week low in  New
York  amid signs that economies are weakening in countries that
are the world’s biggest consumers of the metal, contributing to
a surge in stockpiles that are the highest since 2003.  Germany expanded less than forecast in the first quarter,
government statistics showed today. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch cut its estimate for growth this year in China, following
JPMorgan Chase & Co. by a day. U.S. industrial production
declined in April by the most in eight months, the  Federal
Reserve  said. The three nations are the largest copper users.  “Every bit of data lately seems to be showing less
industrial production, and less manufacturing is going to be a
problem for copper,”  Frank Lesh , a trader at FuturePath Trading
in Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “The buyers just
aren’t there, and we’re seeing a buildup in inventories.”  Copper futures for delivery in July fell 0.7 percent to
settle at $3.265 a pound at 1:24 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
after touching $3.224, the lowest since May 3. Prices tumbled
2.1 percent yesterday and are down 11 percent this year.  German gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent from the
fourth quarter, the Federal Statistics Office said, trailing the
0.3 percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Officials in China, the biggest copper consumer, have
little room to rely on stimulus policies or government direct
investment, Premier  Li Keqiang  said in a May 13 speech,
according to a transcript. The U.S. is the second-biggest user
of the metal, followed by Germany.  Copper stockpiles tracked by the London Metal Exchange
climbed 1.4 percent to 627,525 metric tons, the highest since
August 2003, on deliveries in  Malaysia  and  New Orleans , daily
figures showed. Orders to take the metal from warehouses jumped
8.9 percent to 208,550 tons on bookings in Johor, Malaysia.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months lost 0.6
percent to $7,198 a ton ($3.26 a pound).  Nickel, zinc, aluminum, tin and lead also fell in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  