-- Couch-Potato Fight With Liberty Spurs Bond Sale: Poland Credit
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-05-16T10:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/couch-potato-fight-with-liberty-spurs-bond-sale-poland-credit.html
Poland’s second-largest cable-television company is relying on proceeds from its record bond
sale to repel competition from billionaire  John Malone ’s Liberty
Global Inc. and Warburg Pincus LLC.  Multimedia Polska SA sold 1.04 billion zloty ($320 million)
of seven-year notes on May 10, the most ever by a Polish private
company at home, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company
paid 325 basis points over the  six-month  Warsaw Interbank
Offered Rate, or Wibor, 25 basis points more than planned, after
extending bidding by two weeks. That would make the yield 6.09
percent, more than double the 2.98 percent for Polish government
debt maturing the same year.  Cable providers are being drawn to Poland, the European
Union’s biggest eastern economy, because penetration levels are
half that of neighboring  Germany  even as  unemployment rises ,
according to a website presentation by the country’s biggest TV
network, Cyfrowy Polsat SA. Lower debt costs and an additional
loan of as much as 500 million zloty that Multimedia is seeking
might help it scoop up local smaller competitors.  “The size of the offering is impressive, especially for a
company without state ownership,” said Fryderyk Krawczyk, who
helps manage the equivalent of $3.1 billion at fund company
Skarbiec TFI SA. “The industry is quite stable as you don’t
usually cut your cable TV off even if you become jobless.”  Liberty, Vivendi  Yields on dollar debt from  telecommunications and media
companies  fell 40 basis points this quarter to 4.5 percent on
May 15, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Multimedia competes for TV subscribers with the local units
of Liberty,  Vivendi SA (VIV)  and for  Internet users  with companies
such as  France Telecom SA. (FTE)   Warburg Pincus  became a strategic
minority investor in Inea SA, the fourth-largest Polish cable
operator, the private-equity firm said in a statement on April
23 without disclosing terms.  Penetration of Polish TV, broadband and telephone packages
is 28 percent compared with 49 percent in Germany and 64 percent
in the Netherlands, according to Cyfrowy. Of the 14.5 million
Polish households, 11 million use pay-TV services, it said.  Multimedia had 757 million zloty of outstanding unsecured
bonds maturing between November 2015 and June 2017, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The three notes paid 300 basis
points, 350 basis points and 400 basis points over Wibor.  Spread Cut  “Thanks to the refinancing, we can put our funding
structure in order and cut the spread,” Chief Executive Officer
Andrzej Rogowski said in a phone interview on May 14. “This
enables the company to operate in the years to come.”  Banks bought 46 percent of the bonds and 45 percent was
purchased by Polish pension and mutual funds, the company said.
The transaction was managed by Bank Pekao SA, the country’s
second-largest lender, together with the local unit of
Raiffeisen Bank International AG.  Multimedia wants to sign a deal with banks on a loan
facility of 450 million zloty to 500 million zloty to fund
acquisitions, Rogowski said. That will help boost its market
share to 25 percent from 18 percent within four years, he said.  As Multimedia fights for users, its first-quarter net
income dropped 23 percent to 14.4 million zloty as higher debt
taken to finance acquisitions weighed on profitability,
Multimedia said in a website presentation.  Rate Cuts  With the central bank’s benchmark interest rate at a record
3 percent, other Polish companies are also seeking to cut debt
costs. Polkomtel, which provides high-speed mobile Internet, is
in talks with banks on refinancing its zloty loans with new
credit, Chief Financial Officer Joanna Nieckarz said in March.  Poland ’s gross domestic product rose 0.4 percent in the
year to March 31, matching the slowest pace since 2001 and
undershooting the central bank’s forecast as well as the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The additional yield on Polish  dollar bonds  over U.S.
Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
115 today, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The
premium of 10-year zloty yields over German bunds rose six basis
points to 192, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The zloty
strengthened 0.1 percent to 4.1823 per euro as of 10:28 a.m. in
Warsaw, reducing this year’s drop to 2.4 percent.  Default Swaps  Polish  credit-default swaps  fell four basis points to 73,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The swaps, which decline as
perceptions of creditworthiness improve, cost 99 basis points
less than the Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of countries in
eastern  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa . The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a borrower renege.  Polish corporate bond portfolios attracted 2.4 billion
zloty in the first four months of this year, according to
Warsaw-based fund monitor Analizy Online.  State-controlled Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA
sold a record 2.5 billion zloty of bonds to investors last year
while privately owned Polkomtel Sp z.o.o, the country’s second-largest mobile phone operator, controlled by Polish billionaire
Zygmunt Solorz-Zak, issued 1 billion zloty of debt in 2010.  “The current markets are quite favorable for issuers as
we’re seeing inflows to corporate debt funds and the Wibor rate
is falling,” said Radoslaw Galecki, who helps manage an
equivalent of $3.72 billion at Aviva Investors Poland TFI, in
Warsaw. “Investors are looking for higher yields and companies
with stable cash flows. There’s a lack of such big issuances.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  