-- Cyprus Money-Laundering Crackdown Has Deficiencies, Report Shows
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-05-15T15:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/cyprus-money-laundering-crackdown-has-deficiencies-report-shows.html
Cyprus’s attempts to stop money
laundering, required as part of a 10 billion-euro ($12.9
billion) international rescue, have “systemic deficiencies,”
according to a report by Deloitte Financial Advisory Srl.  “The data included in Deloitte’s analysis expose systemic
deficiencies in the implementation of preventive measures by the
audited institutions,” a summary of the report distributed to
reporters in Helsinki today shows.  Cypriot banks flagged no suspicious transactions to
regulators between 2008 and 2010 with regard to customers
included in the assessment, one in 2011 and “a few” last year,
according to the summary. “Deloitte’s forensic analysis of
customers’ transactions revealed 29 potentially suspicious
transactions during the last 12 months,” none of which was
reported by banks, the report shows.  Cyprus received a  first aid payment  of 2 billion euros on
May 13 and may get as much as 1 billion euros more in June from
the European Stability Mechanism, the euro area’s permanent
backstop fund. Euro-area finance chiefs discussed the Cypriot
bailout in Brussels the same day.  In a  statement  on Cyprus, the ministers welcomed the
completion of assessments by Deloitte and  Moneyval , the Council
of Europe’s money-laundering watchdog, of Cyprus’s
implementation of anti-money-laundering rules. The Central Bank
of Cyprus  appointed Deloitte  to prepare an independent review.  ‘Action Plan’  The  ministers said  said an “action plan” on money
laundering targets “areas covering implementation of customer
due diligence by banks, including through adequate supervision,
and the functioning of the company registry, among others.”  Customer business profiles are “generally not properly
established” by Cypriot banks, according to the summary. As a
result, lenders “were not consistently in a position to
understand the purpose of the account, define the customer’s
business economic profile and evaluate the expected pattern and
level of transactions,” the report shows.  Deloitte concluded that 70 percent of “the most complex
ownership structures” have nominee shareholders and an average
of three layers between the customer and beneficial owner,
according to the summary.  Countries including  Germany  had insisted that  Russia  bear
some of the cost of rescuing Cyprus, alleging that Russian
businesses were using the island to launder money. Russian
officials denied that funds on the island were illegal.  Aid Payments  An outside spokesman for Deloitte in  Italy  at Barabino &
Partners SpA declined to comment on the substance of the
summary, while confirming that the Italian Deloitte unit had
been hired to conduct an assessment. A Cypriot Finance Ministry
official declined to comment and referred to comments by Finance
Minister Haris Georgiades on May 14.  Georgiades told reporters there’s an end-July deadline for
working out the way in which the Cypriot government should enact
recommendations in this area. While further aid payments aren’t
directly linked to progress on this front, he signaled that a
political link exists and Cyprus will have to convince its euro-area partners of its compliance.  “While identifying no regulatory weaknesses, both reports
suggest that there are substantial shortcomings in the
implementation, by banks, of anti-money-laundering preventive
measures,” the summary concludes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  