-- Czech Slump Deepens as Decline Stretches into 6th Quarter
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-05-15T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/czech-slump-deepens-as-decline-stretches-into-6th-quarter.html
The Czech recession deepened in the
first three months, the longest economic contraction since
current records began in 1996, as people and businesses spent
less because of austerity measures and Europe’s debt crisis.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.8 percent from the previous
quarter, compared with a 0.3 percent decline in October through
December, the Statistics Office in  Prague  said in a flash
estimate today. The reading was worse than the median forecast
of a 0.1 percent contraction in a Bloomberg survey of 13
analysts. The GDP fell 1.9 percent from a year earlier, the
office said, without publishing a breakdown.  The $217 billion  economy  is enduring weak domestic demand
as government policies focused on narrowing the budget deficit
and Europe’s debt crisis curbed Czech exports such as cars and
auto parts. After cutting  interest rates  to effectively zero
last year, the central bank is debating whether to weaken the
koruna currency to stimulate spending as the recession keeps the
 inflation  rate below its target.  “The outlook remains gloomy,” Stanislava Pravdova-Nielsen, a Copenhagen-based  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  analyst, said in a
note before the data. “It’s generally expected the economy will
remain in recession this year” and private consumption “is set
to remain the main drag on growth.”  After cutting investment and raising some taxes to curb the
budget shortfall in the past three years, the government of
Prime Minister Petr Necas agreed last month to target a wider
 shortfall  than initially planned in 2014, when elections are
next held, to boost growth.  The government credits its measures with helping to cut
borrowing costs to record lows, with the yield on the 10-year
government bond falling to an all-time low of 1.52 percent on
May 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Czech consumers aren’t signaling a turnaround in the
economy as  retail sales  declined in five consecutive months
through March and the  confidence  indicator worsened again in
April after improving in two previous months.  Czech exports fell 4.4 percent in the first quarter,
compared with a 5.2 percent slump in imports, according to the
statistics office.  The central bank on May 2 cut its GDP outlook for 2013 to a
0.5 percent contraction and forecasts the economy to grow 1.8
percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  