-- Deere Cuts Forecast as Wet Weather Slows Construction
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-05-15T20:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/deere-cuts-sales-forecast-as-cold-weather-delays-crop-planting.html
Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest
agricultural-equipment maker, cut its full-year equipment sales
forecast after cold, wet weather slowed demand for construction
and turf-care machinery in  North America .  Equipment revenue will rise by about 5 percent in the year
through October, the Moline, Illinois-based company said today
in a statement, down from a February forecast of 6 percent.
Global construction and forestry equipment sales will drop by
about 5 percent, compared with a previous projection for a 3
percent increase. Deere also said the effect of unfavorable
foreign exchange will curb sales by about 1 percentage point.  The company maintained its full-year net income forecast of
about $3.3 billion, lower than the $3.35 billion average of 16
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Second-quarter profit
of $2.76 a share exceeded the $2.72 average of 18  estimates .  The shares fell 4.4 percent to $89.64 in  New York , the most
since Aug. 15.  “There was an expectation it would be a beat and raise,”
Steve Volkmann, a New York-based analyst for Jefferies & Co. who
has a hold rating on the shares, said in a telephone interview
today.  Deere’s near-term forecast is “tempered” by economic
concerns holding back business confidence and growth in parts of
the world, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Samuel Allen 
said in the statement. Those headwinds may slow the company’s
goal to reach $50 billion in revenue by 2018.  EU Recession  North America is Deere’s largest market. U.S.  construction
spending  fell 1.7 percent in March, the second drop in three
months, government data show. The euro-area economy shrank more
than economists forecast in the three months through March,
extending a recession to a record sixth quarter, the European
Union said today.  Germany  expanded less than forecast and  France 
slipped into a recession.  Deere said its net income rose to $1.08 billion in the
second quarter through April, from $1.06 billion a year earlier.
Revenue rose 9 percent to $10.9 billion in the quarter.  The company’s global farm and turf equipment sales will
rise about 7 percent for the full year on high commodity prices
and farm incomes. Industrywide farm machine sales will rise
about 5 percent in the U.S. and  Canada  and as much as 20 percent
in  South America  while falling 5 percent in the European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  