-- Delhi Gang Rape Accused in Critical Condition After Jail Attack
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-05-15T13:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/delhi-gang-rape-accused-in-critical-condition-after-jail-attack.html
One of the six men accused of gang
raping and murdering a physiotherapy student in  New Delhi  last
year is in a critical condition after being assaulted by fellow
inmates, according to his lawyer.  Vinay Sharma was attacked on May 13 in the country’s top-security  prison  and is in hospital recovering from his injuries,
A.P. Singh, his lawyer said in a phone interview.  “He is in a very serious condition, he has been very badly
injured in the assault,” Singh said. Three calls to the mobile
phone of Sunil Gupta, a spokesman for Tihar jail, weren’t
answered.  The alleged attack on Sharma follows the death in March of
the bus driver who was accused of leading the group that gang
raped the woman in a moving bus. Ram Singh was found dead in his
cell, hanging from a ceiling grill.  The brutal assault on the 23-year-old medical student as
she returned home from the cinema on Dec. 16 shocked  India  and
reverberated around the world, triggering street protests and
drawing attention to the scale of sexual violence against women
in the world’s largest democracy. The student died from her
injuries two weeks later in a Singapore hospital.  In the brutal two-hour assault that followed, the woman was
allegedly repeatedly raped before being dumped naked along with
a male friend beside a road near New Delhi’s airport. The couple
were then ignored by passersby and police argued over where to
take them as they lay bleeding on the street, according to
televised comments by the man who survived the attack. Neither
have been officially named.  India was named the fourth-worst place in the world to be a
woman after  Afghanistan , the  Democratic Republic  of Congo and
 Pakistan  in a 2011 survey by the Thomson Reuters Foundation.  The report cited female feticide, human trafficking, sexual
violence and poor education for India’s low score in the global
rankings.  Tihar jail, which houses many of India’s most dangerous
criminals, has 12,000 prisoners, almost double the sanctioned
capacity, according to the  prison  website, raising concerns
about the inmates’ safety.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  