-- Deutsche Post Tests Drop-Off Boxes to Spur Online Retail
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-05-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/deutsche-post-tests-drop-off-containers-to-spur-online-retailing.html
Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  is testing secure
boxes installed at people’s homes to enable a drop-off even when
the recipient is out as the German mail service seeks to boost
deliveries of food and consumer goods in its home market.  The company, Europe’s largest mail service, is also
upgrading its handling hubs to speed deliveries, and may team up
with major retailers to expand the business, Chief Financial
Officer Lawrence Rosen said in Frankfurt yesterday. The company
is testing the boxes first in Bonn, where it’s based, he said.  “Online grocery shopping in  Germany  is starting and growth
is very fast,” Rosen said in an interview. “We think it’s
going to be a strong business.”  Shoppers in Europe’s biggest economy are embracing Internet
purchasing after previously lagging behind the U.K. and some
U.S. locations such as  New York , Rosen said. Deutsche Post has a
40 percent share of the wider Germany parcels market, handling
970 million items there in the past four quarters. Demand is
likely to grow by as much as 7 percent a year, led by web-based
buying, the company estimates.  Deutsche Post is pushing online shopping partly to help
offset declining demand for traditional letters. In the U.K.,
people make 11 percent of clothing purchases online, according
to market leader  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , which said May 8 it
would speed up deliveries as it targets 1 billion pounds ($1.6
billion) of e-commerce sales by 2014.  Tesco Switch  In the food business,  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , Britain’s top retailer,
said last month it would scrap 100 supermarket developments and
focus on expanding Internet-based grocery transactions that rose
13 percent last year, together with  convenience stores .  Deutsche Post is spending 750 million euros ($965 million)
on automation in preparation for handling more food and medicine
and to move toward one-day deliveries. It’s also helping smaller
retailers get online via its Mein Paket shopping portal, and
owns a stake in web-based supermarket Allyouneed.com.  Away from the postal business, Deutsche Post’s DHL unit is
benefiting from a 40 percent share of time-definite express
shipments in  Asia  after  FedEx Corp. (FDX) ,  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) 
and  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  failed to invest sufficiently there, Rosen
said.  “We’re adding new routes to allow for faster service,” he
said. “We aren’t resting on our laurels. We are basically doing
everything we can to build on that leadership position.”  Profitability at DHL’s express business last year was three
times that of the bigger supply-chain unit, and twice that of
the cargo-forwarding division, which competes with Kuehne &
Nagel International AG, the No. 1 sea-freight forwarder.  M&A Recedes  “Kuehne has done a better job on efficiency,” Rosen said.
“They consistently have higher operating margins. We’ve begun
to work on that and are making significant progress.” Advances
include improved computer systems and structural changes, he
said.  Acquiring mail companies abroad would make little sense for
Deutsche Post, given the lack of operating synergies, according
to Rosen, who said there are few acquisition options in the more
attractive express market.  Atlanta-based UPS, the world’s largest parcel-delivery
company, scrapped a 5.16 billion-euro attempt to buy TNT Express
of the Netherlands in January amid European Union opposition.  “There are four major players in international express.”
Rosen said. “There doesn’t seem to be anything on the horizon
that suggests further consolidation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  