-- Sprint Faces Mounting Pressure as Dish Lines Up Financing
-- B y   J o d i   X u   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-05-17T00:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/dish-said-to-be-lining-up-four-banks-to-fund-sprint-bid.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  is under
increasing pressure to open up its books to  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ,
which is arranging the financing it would need to outbid
 SoftBank Corp. (9984)  with a $25.5 billion takeover offer.  Dish is already raising about $2.6 billion in a bond
offering managed by Barclays Plc, Jefferies Group LLC, Macquarie
Group Ltd. and Royal Bank of  Canada . The satellite-TV company is
also close to tapping the same banks for loans to help reach its
goal of $9.3 billion in financing for the Sprint transaction,
people familiar with the matter said yesterday.  Sprint hasn’t given Dish access to more detailed financial
information, a key step in the merger process, in part because
of concern over the satellite carrier’s ability to fund the
proposal, people familiar with the discussions said this month.
Dish Chairman  Charlie Ergen  said last week he would seek
committed financing when it was the “last remaining obstacle to
us getting access” to Sprint’s private financial data.  “If you listened to Charlie last week, you might conclude
that things are going his way and this is the last step,” Shing Yin, an analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC in New York, said
in an interview. “But on the other hand, I’d be surprised if
they were so far along that this was the last barrier. It seems
too quick.”  Talks Continue  Dish talked to Sprint about the financing this week and the
two sides will continue meeting to discuss the offer, which
compares with a $20.1 billion bid from SoftBank, said one of the
people familiar with the matter yesterday. The people asked not
to be named because the discussions are private.  The special committee of Sprint board members considering
the deal hasn’t said that the satellite company’s offer is
potentially superior to SoftBank’s, a move that would allow for
more serious consideration of the bid.  Sprint agreed to a takeover in October by Tokyo-based
SoftBank, which has its financing in place and offered to give
the U.S. wireless carrier an $8 billion cash infusion as part of
the deal. Dish stepped in with its counteroffer last month,
seeking to expand into the mobile-phone business to offset a
decline in satellite television.  Bill White , a spokesman for  Overland Park , Kansas-based
Sprint, declined to comment, as did Dish’s Bob Toevs, Barclays’s
Brandon Ashcraft, Jefferies’s Richard Khaleel, Macquarie’s Paula Chirhart and RBC’s Gillian McArdle.  Cost Savings  In addition to questioning Dish’s ability to finance the
deal, Sprint’s directors also have doubts about estimates that
the merged company would have $11 billion in cost savings,
people familiar with the deliberations said this month.  Dish had already gained financing commitments from
Jefferies, as well as Barclays, which is advising Dish and has
provided a letter saying it’s confident it can help raise the
necessary money, people with knowledge of the proceedings said
earlier. Dish previously told Sprint it wouldn’t provide
committed financing until it gained access to the carrier’s
financial information, people familiar with the matter said.  Sprint shares were little changed in New York trading
today, closing at $7.28. That puts them above the price offered
by SoftBank or Dish, suggesting that investors are expecting a
bidding war. Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , fell 1.3
percent to $38.69.  The Financial Times previously reported on the financing
deal with the four banks.  FCC Letter  Separately, Dish filed a letter today with the Federal
Communications Commission urging the agency to review SoftBank’s
conduct with banks. Citing a Reuters story, Dish said SoftBank
may have threatened potential sources of financing, saying that
working with the satellite company would hurt their chances of
participating in an initial public offering of Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd., a Chinese e-commerce company.  “Dish has reportedly been the target of possible
extortionate behavior on the part of SoftBank,” the company
said in the letter. “SoftBank is trying to force its offer on
Sprint’s shareholders by underhandedly seeking to undermine a
superior bid.”  A SoftBank spokesman said “this is yet another irrelevant
and unfounded filing based on unsubstantiated media reports.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jodi Xu in  New York  at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  