-- Doctors Protest Psychiatric Manual Revision in Global Petition
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-05-15T09:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/doctors-protest-psychiatric-manual-revision-in-global-petition.html
Doctors are protesting new guidance
for the diagnosis of some mental disorders, including autism,
contained in the revised edition of a professional manual to be
released in coming days.  The so-called “psychiatric bible,” whose first update in
19 years will be released at a  medical meeting  that opens in  San
Francisco  on May 18, also influences the way patients are
treated and reimbursed for mental disorders. A  petition  that
raised concerns about the manual’s diagnostic categories and
patient safety received more than 3,000 signatures from Paris to
 Montreal  in recent months.  The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
is the standard used by mental-health professionals for
diagnosing illness and for research. The newest edition is meant
to incorporate the latest research findings and has collapsed
several conditions, including Asperger’s syndrome and child
disintegrative disorder, into a single autism diagnosis.  The new guideline “is really an example of psychiatric
imperialism,” said  Gordon Parker , Scientia Professor of
psychiatry at Sydney-based University of New South Wales. It has
“a flawed logic and a flawed model which leads to compromised
research and also compromises management.”  Parker was speaking to reporters today with other
Australian academics who commented on the changes. In March, a
group of British mental-health professionals issued a petition
against the changes, according to a  release  posted on the
British Psychological Society’s website.  The manual known as DSM is the most widely used
classification system globally, Michael Berk, professor of
psychiatry at  Melbourne ’s Deakin University, said in an
interview last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  