-- Dow Chemical Damages Hit $1.2 Billion in Urethane Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D a n   M a r g o l i e s
-- 2013-05-16T20:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/dow-chemical-hit-with-1-2-billion-judgment-in-antitrust-case.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  was ordered by a
federal judge to pay a $1.2 billion judgment in a urethane
price-fixing case after losing its bid to undo a jury’s verdict
that it colluded with competitors.  U.S. District Judge John W. Lungstrum in  Kansas City ,
Kansas, yesterday rejected Dow’s request to overturn the
$400 million February jury verdict. Lungstrum tripled the
damages under U.S. antitrust law, making the award the biggest
U.S. verdict this year, according to data compiled by  Bloomberg
News . Dow said in a statement it will appeal.  Lungstrum rejected the company’s challenge to the verdict
on grounds the purchaser plaintiffs alleged a conspiracy
spanning the years 1999 to 2003 and were unable to prove its
existence before November 2000.  “The absurdity of its premise -- that Dow could escape
liability for an illegal antitrust conspiracy because plaintiffs
alleged a longer conspiracy than found by the jury -- convinces
the court that it should not create new law by adopting Dow’s
position,” the judge said in a 30-page ruling.  The case started in 2005 with allegations that Dow plotted
with  BASF SE (BAS) , Huntsman International LLC and Lyondell Chemical
Co. in violation of federal law. Only Dow didn’t settle.  At the heart of the suit were urethane-based products used
in the automotive, construction, appliance and furniture
industries.  Business Reasons  Dow denied the price-fixing allegations, maintaining there
were legitimate business reasons for the evidence the plaintiffs
cited as proof of their claims.  Dow fell 24 cents to close at $35.10 in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares earlier dropped as much
as 1.3 percent to $34.88.  “Dow will appeal the judgment entered against it,”
Rebecca Bentley, a spokeswoman for the Midland, Michigan-based
company, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We believe
that the jury’s findings required that judgment should have been
entered in Dow’s favor.”  A U.S. Justice Department probe into the matter was closed
in 2007 with no charges being filed, Bentley said.  The company also contended Lungstrum erred in not
decertifiying the purchaser class based on a March U.S. Supreme
Court ruling. In that case, involving cable-television service
provider Comcast Corp., the high court rejected a damages theory
propounded by the same expert used by the urethane buyers in
Dow.  Expert’s Testimony  The chemical maker didn’t object to the expert’s testimony
before or during the trial, Lungstrum said.  The expert, James McClave, testified to a causal link
between the single price-fixing conspiracy alleged at trial and
the impact on the plaintiffs, according to the judge.  “Dow had every opportunity to cross-examine him about
whether the impact on plaintiffs could have resulted from some
other wrongdoing,” Lungstrum said. The judge concluded there
was no basis for finding that McClave’s methodology couldn’t
provide an adequate link between the theory of liability and
classwide impact.  Purchasers’ attorney  Joseph Goldberg  said in an e-mailed
message that he was “pleased” the court upheld the jury’s
verdict. He is a partner in the Albuquerque law firm Freedman
Boyd Hollander Goldberg Urias & Ward PA.  In his ruling, Lungstrum also denied Dow’s requests for
judgment in its favor as a matter of law or a new trial.  Closing Arguments  “What Dow did was wrong,” Goldberg told the jury Feb. 19
in his closing arguments. “It colluded with its competitors and
entered into a price-fixing conspiracy.”  David Bernick, a lawyer for Dow, disputed that allegation
in his own summation.  “What kind of cartel is it where everybody is doing
exactly what they would be doing otherwise?” Bernick asked
jurors.  The purchasers’ case was “empty of truth, empty of facts
and empty of fairness,” said Bernick, a partner in New York-based Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP.  “An agreement can be just a wink and a nod,” Goldberg
told the jury. He said such schemes aren’t agreed upon in
corporate board rooms. They’re hatched in back rooms, on golf
courses and over cocktails, he said.  The case is In re Urethane Antitrust Litigation, 04-md-01616, U.S. District Court, District of  Kansas  (Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net 
Dan Margolies in Kansas City, Kansas,
at   margolies@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  