-- How Bad Can It Be for SEC Whistle-Blowers?
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-05-15T13:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/the-saga-of-one-sec-whistle-blower-william-d-cohan-correct-.html
(Corrects who convened meeting in eighth paragraph, deletes
reference to Freedom of Information Act request in 16th
paragraph.)  George Canellos, 48, has one of the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s top jobs. The SEC’s new
chairman, Mary Jo White, appointed him as co-director of the
enforcement division, along with Andrew Ceresney, a former
partner of White’s at Debevoise & Plimpton. Their job is to
oversee 1,200 investigators, accountants and lawyers who try to
root out corruption on  Wall Street . Canellos should be above
reproach.  But his alleged treatment of Kathleen Furey, 56, a senior
SEC lawyer and whistle-blower, who worked in the agency’s  New
York  office while Canellos was in charge makes me wonder if he’s
the right man for the job. If White is serious about reforming
the agency -- as she claimed during her confirmation hearing --
she will examine what happened to Furey, as  described  in a
recently filed complaint against the SEC.  Below is a synopsis of Furey’s story based on her
complaint, which she hopes will result in a lawsuit that seeks
back pay, a promotion and an end to what she claims is
retaliation by her supervisors.  Furey, a graduate of the  University of Virginia  and Fordham
University Law School, joined the SEC in September 2004 as a law
clerk in the enforcement division, and soon won praise and
promotions from her supervisors, who cited her work ethic and
her deft skill as a litigator.  Investigation Starts  Starting in December 2004, Furey began investigating an
investment adviser -- the name is redacted in my copy of the
complaint -- for violations of the Investment Company Act of
1940 and the Investment Advisors Act of 1940. By August 2007,
after another promotion, Furey was becoming concerned that the
case hadn’t advanced quickly enough to the formal-investigation
stage, a prerequisite for the SEC to issue subpoenas.  According to her complaint, she decided to go over the head
of her boss, Joseph Dever, and to alert George Stepaniuk, the
assistant regional director of the New York office. Stepaniuk
told her “We don’t do investment-management cases in this
group,” according to her complaint.  Furey took the matter to Stepaniuk’s boss, David Rosenfeld,
and asked for a transfer. She suggested to Rosenfeld that she
could take the case to a different part of the SEC and move
forward with it.  On Dec. 6, 2007, Mark Schonfeld, the New York office’s
regional director, called a meeting with Furey, Stepaniuk and
Rosenfeld, according to her court filing. He offered Furey two
choices: She could either drop her claim that Stepaniuk refused
to pursue investment-manager cases or she could take the matter
up with  David Kotz , the agency’s inspector general from 2007 to
2012. Two weeks later, the suit says, she e-mailed Kotz’s staff
and described her case as well as two others -- involving
investment managers -- “that were going nowhere.”  The reprisals had already begun, according to her
complaint. For instance, in November 2007, Furey’s boss, Dever,
told her that he had taken over her investment-manager
investigation. In March 2008, Dever sent Furey an e-mail telling
her “you should not communicate with me one-on-one”; “you
should know that I am keeping a record of your campaign to
harass me”; and that her actions had impeded the investment-manager probe, her complaint says.  Dever copied the office chain of command, including
Stepaniuk, Rosenfeld and Schonfeld. “Dever sent his e-mail
declaring his personal vendetta against Furey to all of his
supervisors,” according to her complaint. (In an April 18,
2008, report, Kotz  wrote  that he found no evidence that SEC
officials declined to pursue cases involving investment-management firms, but he did find that the SEC’s New York office
supervisors “created an atmosphere of fear, frustration and
confusion among many staff,” several of whom expressed “a
strong fear of retaliation by management.”)  ‘Whistle-blower Legacy’  On March 31, 2008, Furey transferred to the SEC’s office of
inspections and examinations, also in New York. “Furey soon
learned that the transfer did not mean she would be free from
her whistle-blower legacy,” her complaint says. She was, for
example, blocked from consulting with the enforcement staff on
matters that her new division had referred to that department.  But her new bosses seemed happy with her performance.
“You’re the best,” her supervisor, Thomas Biolsi, wrote Furey
after she completed one project. In her 2008 performance
evaluation, Biolsi told her she was “on track” for a
promotion, according to her complaint.  After Biolsi left the SEC in August 2009, Furey started
reporting to James Capezzuto, the acting associate director of
the New York office. In December 2009, Capezzuto recommended
Furey for a merit-pay increase. He also told her he would
support her for a promotion. In November 2010, he wrote in her
annual evaluation that she was “an intelligent, hard-working
person who honestly cares about her work.” She continued to
take on more responsibilities, including those of the position
she sought through a promotion. Capezzuto told Furey he had
recommended her promotion to Canellos, who became the head of
the New York office in July 2009.  Concerned that her role as a whistleblower might derail her
advancement, Furey met with Canellos on Sept. 29, 2010. He told
her that the enforcement division was “holding a grudge”
against her for going to Kotz and claiming that Stepaniuk
refused to pursue cases against investment managers. Canellos
told her the episode had hurt her chance for a promotion, the
complaint says.  In May 2011, Furey applied for a so-called desk audit -- an
independent review of her work -- to show that she was already
doing the job that she believed Canellos and others were denying
her. Capezzuto, her new boss, helped her with the application
and made suggestions for its improvement.  Perfect Score  Furey scored 1,760 points on the desk audit, a perfect
grade, and the auditor “unequivocally recommended” that Furey
be promoted, according to the complaint.  Finally, in July 2011, Capezzuto told Furey “he had lied
to her over the past year about recommending her promotion to
Canellos because he understood that Canellos would never agree
to the promotion,” according to the complaint.  Furey, frustrated with her difficulty getting a copy of her
desk audit, contacted Kotz, the SEC’s inspector general, a
second time on Oct. 19, 2011, to complain that she was a victim
of retaliation for testifying during his internal investigation.
Kotz helped Furey get her desk audit, which revealed her to be
highly qualified for the promotion, though Canellos denied it to
her all the same, according to her complaint. Furey remains at
the SEC, working at a job with a lower level of responsibility
than she once had.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on a
pending Freedom of Information Act request by Furey, which is
how her complaint became public. Nester pointed me to Kotz’s
2008  report  and to a list of 14 lawsuits the SEC brought against
investment advisers during the years Furey worked in the
enforcement division, although none of them was pursued by
Stepaniuk just as Furey had alleged in her complaint. Dever,
Stepaniuk, Biolsi, Capezzuto and Canellos didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  One of the more astounding things about Kathleen Furey’s
tale is that she filed her complaint against the SEC with the
U.S. Office of Special Counsel -- an independent federal agency
with a mandate to protect whistleblowers from retaliation -- in
January 2012. She amended it on April 17, five days before Mary
Jo White promoted Canellos to become the SEC’s co-director of
enforcement. With these allegations out there, I have to wonder
if it was a good idea to name Canellos without first addressing
the issues raised in Furey’s complaint.  For all I know, Furey is just a disgruntled employee and
her allegations are baseless. But in my experience it is the
rare employee in any profession who risks losing a job by
publicly questioning the behavior of supervisors.  There is a larger issue. Will White live up to her promise
to fix the agency? Or will she follow the pattern of her two
most recent predecessors and succumb to Wall Street interests?
For the sake of fairness, justice and the proper functioning of
our  capital markets , let’s hope White does the right thing.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at  jgreiff@bloomberg.net  or  