-- EADS Sees Use for Euro Hawk Spy Drone Gear After German Retreat
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-05-15T12:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/eads-sees-use-for-euro-hawk-spy-drone-gear-after-german-retreat.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. said equipment developed for five high-flying spy drones can
find other uses after the German government said it would abort
the 508 million-euro ($661 million) Euro Hawk project.  No more will be spent on Euro Hawk after the 250 million
euro already allocated, German Defense Ministry spokesman Stefan
Paris said today in Berlin. The government will not buy four
more drones beyond the one already built, he said.  The decision to scrap the purchase leaves the German
military with a shortfall after retiring the Breguet Atlantic
spy plane the Euro Hawk was to replace. The German air force has
had a long history of operating such equipment throughout the
 Cold War .  “The Cassidian-developed mission equipment can be
integrated on other platforms,” Bernhard Gerwert, the chief
executive officer of EADS’s defense unit, said in an e-mailed
statement. The development and investment that has taken place
can be reused to plug intelligence gathering shortfalls, he
said.  Germany  will consider pursuing a domestic development
effort, Paris said. The project revealed the complexities of
buying this kind of equipment from overseas, he said.  To meet U.S. and German security requirements, elements of
Euro Hawk work between  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and EADS had to be
separated during the development phase. Gerwert said the
experience shows the importance of having full information and
technology access.  The first Euro Hawk, designed to collect enemy
communications and radar signals, first flew in 2010 and logged
its initial sensor test flight in January. Gerwert said the
first test flights validated the performance of the system.  Euro Hawk is a modified version of the Global Hawk unmanned
aircraft used by the U.S.  Air Force , with EADS providing the
sensor payload after it teamed up with Northrop in 2000.  The German government previously said it plans to acquire
six Global Hawk unmanned aircraft for use in other observation
roles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  