-- EasyJet Sees 2013 Profit Gain as First-Half Loss Narrows
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-05-15T09:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/easyjet-sees-improving-profitability-as-first-half-loss-shrinks.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
discount carrier, said it will deliver improved returns and
profitability in the full year after a drive to secure more
business travelers helped pare fiscal first-half losses.  Revenue per seat for the second half to Sept. 30 is likely
to gain 4 percent, Luton, England-based EasyJet said today. The
pretax loss for the six months ended March 31 was 61 million
pounds ($93 million), versus 112 million pounds a year earlier.  EasyJet is ramping up efforts to draw corporate passengers
using allocated seating, flexible tickets and higher frequencies
on routes linking business centers. The carrier lured 10 million
such travelers in 2012 and plans to begin fast-tracking flexi-fare customers through security at 27 airports starting this
month. The first-half result was lifted by holiday traffic to
beach destinations in  Spain  and skiing hubs such as Geneva.  “Business travelers want frequent, punctual flights to
leading airports,” Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall said
in a statement. “We want to give them other services that they
truly value and which we can deliver without changing our simple
efficient operations.”  Shares of EasyJet rose as much as 7.1 percent and traded
5.6 percent higher at 1,193 pence as of 10:52 a.m. in  London .
The stock has gained almost 56 percent this year following a 79
percent advance in 2012 that helped propel it into the benchmark
FTSE 100 Index, valuing the company at 4.73 billion pounds.  Higher Occupancy  EasyJet boosted its  load factor , a measure of occupancy
levels, to 88.6 percent in the first half even as it increased
capacity 3.3 percent to 30 million seats. About 50 percent of
available berths have already been sold for the summer period.  McCall has sought to multiply frequencies on services
attractive to business clients while adding routes from London
to Moscow and between Milan and Rome Fiumicino airport. Higher
airport charges, especially in Spain and  Italy , will lift costs
per seat about 4 percent in the second half, the carrier said.  EasyJet outlined plans to offer people with flexible fares
priced from 79 pounds each way the option of using fast-track
security lanes at airports including  London Gatwick  and Milan
Linate. Flexi perks already include speedy boarding and a seat
at the front of the plane, on top of the right to switch flights
as little as two hours before the scheduled departure time.  Fleet Expansion  “Simplicity and complexity is something we talk about all
the time,” McCall said on a conference call with journalists,
when asked if the range of services could frustrate passengers.
“From a customer point of view, they’re not confused,” she said.  EasyJet, which operates 211 Airbus SAS A320s and A319s,
said it’s in the final stages of evaluating new jets needed to
grow the fleet beyond 2017, while also considering options for
the 2015-2017 “bridging period.” McCall said in March she’s
considering the re-engined A320neo and Boeing Co. 737 Max.  “We want to get the right terms and the right price,”
McCall said today. “This year is the year where we will know
either way whether we’re making a recommendation or not.”  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s No. 1 discount carrier, last
month ordered 175 Boeing 737-800s and said it’s mulling a
follow-on deal to take the fleet above 500 jets.  ‘Vanity Exercise’  “Ryanair has demonstrated operators can negotiate
successfully without committing to large future growth,” Peter Hyde, an analyst at  Liberum Capital  in London, said in a note to
investors, adding that an EasyJet plane order is likely to
confirm growth of about 5 percent over the medium term.  EasyJet founder and No. 1 shareholder Stelios Haji-Ioannou
has been a vocal opponent of fleet expansion.  “The results today were the outcome of buying only two new
planes in the last 6 months while selling six,” Stelios, who
prefers to be known by his first name, said in an e-mailed
statement. “All this good work could be undone by the vanity
exercise of buying new aircraft.”  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , Europe’s third largest discount carrier,
posted a first-quarter loss before interest and tax that widened
to 188.4 million euros ($243 million) from 149.3 million euros a
year earlier. That’s after its sales fell 2.6 percent following
an 11 percent capacity cut aimed at reviving earnings.  Dublin-based Ryanair will report full-year results May 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  