-- Einhorn’s Greenlight Buys Oil States, Apple Shares; Sells Ensco
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-05-15T21:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/einhorn-s-greenlight-buys-oil-states-apple-shares-sells-ensco.html
David Einhorn ’s Greenlight Capital
Inc. bought shares of  Oil States International Inc. (OIS)  and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , while selling out of  Ensco Plc (ESV)  during the first quarter.  Greenlight also took new positions in Hess Corp. and Spirit
Aerosystems Holdings Inc., according to a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission today. The hedge fund lowered
its stake in Microsoft Corp. and Seagate Technology Plc.  Greenlight bought $220.2 million of Oil States, which
Einhorn said this month may be worth $155 a share if the oil and
gas services company converts its accommodations unit into a
real estate investment trust. The stock has rallied 6.1 percent
to $101.25 since his May 8 comments.  Einhorn added 1.09 million Apple shares to bring his stake
to $1.06 billion, or 16 percent of the portfolio. It was the
only stock in which he increased an existing position. The stock
has dropped 19 percent to $428.85 this year.  Appaloosa Management LP, the hedge fund run by billionaire
 David Tepper , cut its stake in the iPhone maker by 41 percent
last quarter, according to a regulatory filing today. Birinyi
Associates Inc. also trimmed its holdings in the company, a
separate filing said.  Einhorn said May 7 that he increased his bet on the iPhone
maker after Apple took a “major step forward” by issuing debt
to give cash to shareholders. Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim
Cook  announced the largest stock-repurchase program in history
last month amid mounting pressure from Einhorn and other
investors to return more cash to owners.  ‘Loyal, Sticky’  “Our thesis remains that Apple has a terrific operating
platform,” he said on a conference call this month. “Its
loyal, sticky and growing customer base will make repeated
purchases of a growing portfolio of Apple products.”  Greenlight picked up $89.2 million worth of shares in Hess,
an  oil company  based in  New York , and $31.4 million of Spirit
Aerosystems, which makes airplane equipment, the filing showed.  The hedge fund exited its $225 million stake in Ensco, an
offshore drilling company. It also sold $115.3 million in shares
of Microsoft and $57.5 million of Seagate. Kynikos Associates
Ltd.’s  James Chanos  said this month he is betting against
Seagate as the switch to cloud computing reduces demand for hard
disk drives.  Einhorn, 44, established a reputation as a short seller by
betting against Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. before it
collapsed in 2008. In a short sale, a trader sells borrowed
shares in a bet they can be repurchased at a lower price. He
founded the $8.8 billion hedge fund in 1996.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  