-- Elliott Said to Buy JPMorgan in Volatility Trade Last Quarter
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-05-15T21:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/elliott-said-to-buy-jpmorgan-in-volatility-trade-last-quarter.html
Elliott Management Corp. built a
$44.2 million position in  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  during the first
quarter even as the hedge-fund company’s founder said it was
impossible to determine how risky financial institutions are.  The stake was part of an option-related volatility trading
position that Elliott no longer owns and wasn’t a bet on the
bank itself, according to a person familiar with the strategy
who asked for anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to comment.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, was Elliott
Management’s second-biggest new purchase by market value during
the three months ended March 31, according to a regulatory
filing today. The hedge-fund company bought 931,069 shares of
New York-based JPMorgan, according to the filing. The biggest
new buy was 2.88 million shares of  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  valued at
$141.2 million.  Paul Singer, Elliott’s billionaire president, provoked a
testy response from Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan’s chairman and chief
executive officer, when he criticized the opacity and leverage
in the global financial system as the two participated in a
panel discussion about banking regulation at the World Economic
Forum in Davos, Switzerland, during late January.  “One doesn’t know from disclosures, and one can’t find out
from disclosures, whether each of the very large global
financial institutions are actually risky or sound,” Singer
said at the panel, which was broadcast on CNBC. Dimon, 57,
responded by describing some of the bank’s  disclosures  and
telling Singer that “hedge funds are pretty opaque, too.”  Stock Advances  JPMorgan has  gained  16 percent so far this year, in line
with the performance of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the
Dow Jones Industrial Average, of which JPMorgan is one of 30
components.  Singer also advocated separating trading businesses from
banks funded with federally guaranteed deposits as “extremely
useful in normalizing the financial system.” Dimon, whose bank
had $1.2 trillion of deposits at the end of March as well as
Wall Street’s biggest trading business by revenue, has said that
big, diverse banks like JPMorgan help the economy grow and can
be sources of financial stability.  At an investor conference in New York last week, Singer
made it clear that his views on banks haven’t changed since he
spoke in January.  “Four and a half years after the crisis, banks are
opaque,” Singer said on May 8 at the Sohn Investment
Conference. “The financial system is highly leveraged and
opaque.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 