-- Tencent’s WeChat to Tap Mobile Users’ Pockets With Games
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-05-16T03:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/tencent-net-income-beats-estimates-on-higher-advertising-sales.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  China ’s
largest Internet company, will introduce games aimed at mobile
users of its WeChat messaging service in the next few months to
boost revenue after posting profit that beat analyst estimates.  Tencent  rose  as much as 5.5 percent, headed for the highest
since it started trading in 2004, after the Shenzhen-based company said it was working on the pipeline of games for
WeChat, known as Weixin in China. Billionaire Chairman Ma Huateng is counting on the app to bolster revenue and earnings
growth as consumers spend more time on smartphones and tablets.  “WeChat without doubt is the app with largest traffic in
China,” Deco You, an analyst at Beijing-based Internet
consulting group iResearch, said by telephone. “WeChat needs
five to 10 years to become fully monetized.”  The  Internet company  is trying to commercialize WeChat to
compete with  Sina Corp. (SINA) ’s Twitter-like Weibo. Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd., China’s largest e-commerce company, bought an 18
percent stake in Weibo for $586 million last month.  “On the mobile side, we’ll try to assemble a broad
collection of games,” Tencent President Martin Lau said on a
conference call yesterday. “We’ll try to source good games.”  Monthly active user accounts for the messaging service
surged more than threefold from a year earlier to 194.4 million
in the first quarter, Tencent said yesterday.  Profit Climbs  The company’s  net income  rose 37 percent to 4.04 billion
yuan ($657 million) in the three months through March, helped by
better advertising and e-commerce revenue. Profit exceeded the
3.75 billion- yuan  average of eight  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg before the results.  Tencent climbed 5.2 percent to HK$288.60 as of 11:42 a.m.
in  Hong Kong  trading, headed for the highest closing price since
its initial share sale in June 2004. The stock has advanced 16
percent this year, compared with a 2 percent gain for the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  WeChat is projected to have at least 400 million users by
the end of this year, Alicia Yap, an analyst at Barclays Plc in
Hong Kong, wrote in a March 13 report. If WeChat provides games
and related services, it could produce annual revenue of as much
as 2.16 billion yuan, Yap wrote.  The app is “quite strong” in  Southeast Asia , especially
in Singapore, Malaysia and  Indonesia , Tencent’s Lau said
yesterday. WeChat has more than 40 million users outside China.  QQ Service  Tencent’s QQ instant-messaging service had 825 million
monthly active user accounts at the end of March, a 9.8 percent
increase from a year earlier. It had 798 million accounts at the
end of December.  The company plans to offer games that can be downloaded and
played online, either on smartphones or lower-end feature
phones.  Tencent is  estimated  to post  profit growth  of about 24
percent this year, putting it on course for the smallest
increase since 2005, according to the average of analysts’
forecasts and data compiled by Bloomberg.  First-quarter online advertising  revenue  increased 57
percent from a year earlier to 849.5 million yuan. Sales of
value-added services, including mobile games, rose 29 percent to
10.7 billion yuan, representing 79 percent of total revenue.  WeChat poses a challenge for  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , whose
revenue for  text messaging , its most profitable business, fell
4.8 percent to 44.2 billion yuan last year.  Tencent found preliminary solutions for state-owned
carriers concerned that WeChat was eating into their profits,
Chairman Ma said this month, without providing more details. The
company is looking at opportunities for commercial cooperation
with Chinese carriers, it said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  