-- EnergyAustralia Considers Renewable Projects With New Partners
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-05-15T05:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/energyaustralia-considers-renewable-projects-with-new-partners.html
EnergyAustralia Holdings Ltd., a unit
of power supplier  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) , said it’s considering
developing wind and solar projects with infrastructure investors
Palisade Investment Partners and Northleaf Capital Partners.  The companies will focus on potential wind farms in the
states of South Australia and New South Wales, Ross Edwards,
executive manager of business development at Melbourne-based
EnergyAustralia, said yesterday in a phone interview.  EnergyAustralia plans to expand ties with Palisade and
Northleaf after announcing yesterday the sale of 75 percent of
its Waterloo wind farm in South Australia to the two companies
for A$228 million ($226 million). They may collaborate on
further ventures to contribute to Australia’s target of getting
20 percent of its power from renewable energy by 2020.  “This sort of structure positions us well for doing more
development in the future along side Palisade and Northleaf
Capital,” Edwards said. In addition to Australian wind farms,
“both parties are interested in solar investment in the future,
but we’ll see when those opportunities arise.”  EnergyAustralia’s assets include the 111-megawatt Waterloo
wind farm and the Cathedral Rocks wind farm in South  Australia ,
the Tallawarra gas-fired power station in New South Wales, and
the Yallourn coal-fired power station in Victoria state. CLP
Holdings is Hong Kong’s biggest electricity supplier.  Palisade is a Sydney-based infrastructure investor, and
Northleaf is a Canadian company that manages funds for pension
plans, university endowments and other investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  