-- Tepper’s Appaloosa, Bacon Cut AIG Stakes Amid Rally
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-05-15T21:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/tepper-s-appaloosa-bacon-cut-aig-stakes-amid-rally.html
David Tepper’s Appaloosa Management
LP joined Jana Partners LLC and Louis Moore Bacon’s Moore
Capital Management LP in cutting stakes in insurer  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  amid a share rally.  Appaloosa reduced its AIG holding about 29 percent in the
first quarter to 4.3 million shares as of March 31, according to
a regulatory filing today. Moore Capital exited its stake of
about 3.6 million shares, and Jana Partners sold its 3.5 million
share investment.  AIG rallied 10 percent in the first quarter, after it
reached a deal to sell its plane-leasing unit and repaid a U.S.
bailout in December. The company jumped an additional 19 percent
from March 31 through yesterday, as Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Benmosche  worked to boost earnings by improving the
property-casualty business, winning an upgrade of the unit from
Standard & Poor’s.  “Putting the company together the way we have has given us
great financial strength,” Benmosche said yesterday in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu , citing the S&P
upgrade.  George Soros ’s Soros Fund Management LLC cut its AIG stake
by two-thirds to 2.9 million shares. The firm is a family office
for the billionaire. Third Point LLC, the hedge-fund firm run by
Daniel Loeb, cut its stake by 27 percent to 13.5 million shares.
Bruce Berkowitz’s Fairholme Capital Management LLC remained the
investor with the largest stake, disclosing a holding of 85.9
million shares, an increase of less than 1 percent.  Citigroup, JPMorgan  Appaloosa manages about $17.9 billion and also reduced
holdings in Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. Bacon’s firm
has net assets of about $12 billion.  Jana Partners, run by  Barry Rosenstein , manages about $5
billion and often invests in companies undergoing changes such
as mergers, spinoffs and bankruptcies. It took stakes in Zynga
Inc. and Groupon Inc. last quarter.  AIG declined 1.1 percent to $45.58 in New York, where the
company is based. Jon Diat, a spokesman for AIG, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  