-- Ericsson, Nokia Siemens Oppose China Tariffs
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g ,   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-05-16T07:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/ericsson-nokia-siemens-oppose-eu-threat-on-china-tariffs.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB)  and Nokia Siemens
Networks urged the European Union to back off from its threat of
imposing tariffs on Chinese-made mobile-telecommunications
equipment, throwing support behind some of their biggest rivals
in the region.  The European Commission said yesterday it was prepared to
probe possible Chinese subsidies to network makers such as
Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063)  and the possible sale of
equipment in the EU below cost. The inquiries would cover EU
imports of more than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) a year and
determine whether these shipments unfairly harmed European
manufacturers.  “Ericsson does not support this move by the Commission,”
said Ulf Pehrsson, head of government and industry relations at
the Stockholm-based company, the world’s largest maker of
wireless networks. “We don’t believe in this type of unilateral
measure. Our policy is for open, free and unrestricted trade and
global supply chains.”  The threat of European tariffs against China’s
manufacturers highlights the EU’s growing concern about Chinese
dominance of markets in Europe and its readiness to make imports
more expensive in a bid to aid domestic competitors. The EU is
the biggest export market for China, which is the bloc’s second-largest trading partner, after the U.S.  Balancing Act  Yet, that push isn’t garnering overt support from Europe’s
biggest equipment makers because they are as concerned about
generating sales from the booming Chinese market as much as
fending off price competition in their home countries, where
phone carriers from  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  to Royal KPN NV are
struggling to cut debt and to finance network expansion.  “This is the first time the EU has initiated this type of
an investigation without a complaint from the vendors,” Dai
Shu, a Shenzhen-based spokesman for ZTE, said in a phone
interview today. “It’s kind of weird. There are no specific
vendors who initiated these allegations.”  As ZTE hasn’t received a formal notice from the EU, the
company isn’t able to do a detailed analysis of the business
impact of any tariffs, he said. ZTE’s share of Europe’s
infrastructure market is “very small” and the company denies
it receives subsidies or engages in dumping, he said.  China Sales  China  accounted for 5.9 percent of Ericsson’s  sales  last
year and Alcatel-Lucent SA  made  7.6 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed. Nokia Siemens made 9.6 percent from the
greater China region, the company said in its  annual report . The
term greater China typically refers to the region that comprises
mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau and  Taiwan .  China is evaluating bids for the rollout of high-speed
fourth-generation mobile networks, and western gearmakers are
hoping to get a share of the contracts.  “China is a major market for all the infrastructure
vendors, so there will be great interest in minimizing potential
impact on their opportunities in China,” said Susan Welsh de Grimaldo, director of mobile broadband at Strategy Analytics in
Newton,  Massachusetts .  Huawei, seeking to accelerate growth in Europe, said last
month it plans to hire 5,500 people in the region over the next
five years, predicting the need for faster services and cheaper
smartphones will drive demand in Europe. Nokia Siemens, Ericsson
and Alcatel-Lucent have announced more than 24,000 job cuts in
total since 2011.  Nokia Siemens  “We absolutely oppose any efforts to restrict free trade
and erect trade barriers of any kind and have urged the
Commission to refrain from taking such steps,” said Barry French, a spokesman at Nokia Siemens, the venture between  Nokia
Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens AG. (SIE)  “We have made that position clear to the
Commission both verbally and in writing.”  Simon Poulter, a spokesman for Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent,
declined to comment on the EU initiative.  Ericsson  shares  slipped 1.1 percent to 82.10 kronor at 9:32
a.m. in Stockholm, paring their gain this year to 26 percent.
Nokia rose 1 percent in Helsinki, Siemens fell 0.6 percent in
 Frankfurt , and Alcatel-Lucent increased 0.8 percent on the Paris
exchange.  U.S. industry has expressed similar concerns about a
backlash from China. In an April 4  letter  to Congress, groups
including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the
Telecommunications Industry Association wrote they feared a rule
that would make it more difficult for government departments to
acquire technologies from China might cause retaliation against
U.S. vendors “by enacting a similar policy for screening IT
system purchases in China.”  Fair Play  “If the Europeans were to act against the Chinese vendors,
they can expect retaliation against European companies in
China,” said Simon Leopold, an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates in New York.  In an e-mailed statement, Shenzhen-based Huawei said the
company is disappointed with the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy
investigations against Chinese vendors. In Europe and in all
markets, Huawei “always plays fair” and wins business and
trust from customers “through innovative technology and quality
service,” rather than via pricing or subsidies, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  