-- Merkel’s Greens Challenger Seeks CO2 Price Rises to Ditch Coal
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-05-15T08:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/merkel-s-greens-challenger-seeks-co2-price-rises-to-ditch-coal.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  must ditch
coal in favor of cleaner gas power plants to protect the
climate, said the co-leader of Germany’s Greens party, urging a
redoubling of efforts to raise carbon prices in the world’s
biggest cap-and-trade program.  The Greens will push for more ambitious European Union
climate targets for 2020 to help raise CO2 prices, said  Juergen Trittin , outlining his party’s strategy for federal elections in
little more than four months. A higher price for carbon permits
would make burning coal more expensive and so less attractive,
which the Greens would complement by setting strict efficiency
standards for new fossil plants, he said.  “It’s key that we succeed in getting CO2 certificates back
to a decent price,” Trittin said in a phone interview yesterday
in Berlin. “German gas plants are under threat of being closed
as a result of their low running times because they can’t
compete with coal” which he said is “highly subsidized.”
Older, written-off coal-fired stations should be “pushed out of
the market as they mess up prices and the climate.”  Trittin, one of his party’s two lead candidates for the
Sept. 22 elections, is returning to a core Green policy area as
he attacks Merkel’s handling of the energy overhaul that is the
signature policy of her second term. Polls suggest the Greens’
allied message of tax rises and more euro-area debt sharing may
resonate with the public: the party has 14-15 percent support
after taking less than 11 percent at the last election in 2009.  U.S. Talks  The Greens’ roots as an anti-atomic movement give them
added credence after Merkel’s decision to transform  Germany ’s
power market,  Europe ’s biggest, by more than tripling the share
of renewables in the electricity mix by 2050 while phasing out
nuclear generation. Underscoring the party’s clout, Trittin met
in Washington last week with U.S. acting Energy Secretary Daniel Poneman for talks on the energy switch and the fracking boom in
the U.S.  Germany will this year start up more coal-fired power
stations than at any time in the past 20 years, the Muenster-based IWR renewable-energy institute said in February. German
CO2 emissions rose 2 percent last year as more coal was burned
to generate power, the Environment Ministry said that same
month.  “We need a new market structure for a power system
dominated largely by renewables,” said Trittin, who replaced
Merkel as  environment minister  in 1998, serving in the same post
under Social Democratic Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  until 2005.
“The question is how to build up capacity markets, and there is
way too little discussion on that in Germany.”  Backloading ‘Compromise’  The fix for the carbon-market glut designed by the European
Commission, a measure called backloading, has divided industry,
the European Parliament and member states including Germany. The
Parliament on April 16 sent it back to the environment committee
for further debate, reflecting concerns that higher energy
prices would deepen the euro-area recession and that
intervention would be against the market nature of the program.  Backloading “is a compromise because one couldn’t agree on
a more ambitious target,” said Trittin, the architect of the
Schroeder government’s policy to exit nuclear power before
Merkel reversed that decision in 2010, then returned to it the
following year after the Fukushima disaster.  Trittin said he would give the  Environment Ministry  more
control over power grids, reform the EEG clean-energy law so
that energy from biogas plants is stored in the gas grid, and
invest in making buildings more energy-efficient.  The German government has been trying to prevent a voter
backlash after costs for the clean-energy expansion spiraled and
greenhouse gas emissions rose. Merkel has urged reform of the
country’s renewable subsidy system and slowing down an expansion
of onshore wind and solar generators to keep costs in check.  Consumer prices increased in part because of exemptions for
companies and excess supply of coal-fired power, said Trittin.  While putting the brakes on new renewable installations
would have only minimal effect on cost, it would “choke off an
industry that employs some 400,000 people,” Trittin said.
Adding more onshore wind in southern Germany would reduce the
need for building lines to ship electricity there, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  