-- Musk Bulls Power Tesla Ahead of Offering: Mover
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-05-16T20:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/tesla-issues-new-shares-notes-to-speed-u-s-loan-payment.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car
maker run by  Elon Musk , surged as much as 12 percent on investor
confidence in Musk’s plan to boost his stake in the company
that’s selling as much as $830 million in shares and debt.  Tesla, which is raising the money to fund operations and be
first to repay its Energy Department loan, gained 8.7 percent to
$92.25 at the close in  New York  after reaching $95. The  shares 
climbed 172 percent this year, compared with a 16 percent
increase for the Russell 1000 Index.  Tesla said in a U.S. regulatory filing and statement that
proceeds from selling 2.7 million shares, valued at $229 million
at yesterday’s $84.84 closing price, and $450 million in
convertible senior notes due in 2018 will go to pay off its $465
million loan with interest and fund other operations. Chief
Executive Officer Musk, Tesla’s biggest  shareholder , will buy a
further $100 million.  “There is some benefit from no longer being constrained by
the DOE loan covenants as well as positive perception benefits
from repaying  Uncle Sam  in full,” said Ben Schuman, an analyst
with Pacific Crest Securities, who rates Tesla sector perform.
While there will be some dilution of current shares and higher
debt costs, “positives, especially Musk’s investment, are
enough to offset those factors in investors’ minds,” he said.  The offering is scheduled to price today after market
close, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bullish Options  The cost of bullish options on Tesla jumped to the highest
level ever relative to bearish ones after the company’s first
profit triggered a 57 percent rally when short sellers rushed to
buy shares.  Calls betting on a 10 percent gain in the stock cost 2.5
points more than puts protecting against a 10 percent loss,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg on three-month
contracts. That’s the most since the options started trading in
July 2010.  “The legs supporting the short case have slowly been taken
out as they’ve hit their targets,” Elaine Kwei, a New York-based analyst at Jefferies Group LLC who rates the shares a buy,
said in a phone interview. “There was high degree of skepticism
that they’d be able to hit those targets, so that’s really been
the catalyst for the move.”  Tesla has “a higher probability” of adding models “given
the reduced financial risk” from raising funds,  Brian Johnson ,
a Barclays Plc analyst who rates Tesla overweight, wrote in a
report. Johnson today raised his price target for the shares to
$90. Tesla sells the Model S sedan and plans to introduce the
Model X sport-utility vehicle next year to be followed by a
lower-priced electric car.  Government Loans  Tesla is making the government whole by repaying a loan
awarded under the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing
program that was implemented by President  Barack Obama  in 2009.
The standard repayment schedule for  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s $5.9
billion loan and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s $1.4 billion loan is 10
years. Fisker Automotive Inc., which missed a payment in April,
is at risk of bankruptcy after halting vehicle output last year
and firing most of its staff last month.  “Some Republicans in Congress are also business people,
and they should know better than others that not all investments
pay off,” said  Dan Becker , director of the Safe Climate
Campaign, based in  Washington . Tesla’s moves “demonstrate that
a smart company with the government’s help can get off the
ground and become a success,” he said.  The Energy Department agreed to Tesla’s modified terms on
May 14, according to the carmaker’s filing.  Aoife McCarthy, an Energy Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment. Loans from the Obama administration were given out
in 2009 to spur a market for rechargeable autos including
Tesla’s  Model S , Nissan’s Leaf hatchback and Ford plug-in cars.  Political Critics  The government loans, along with Energy Department funds
for failed lithium-ion battery manufacturer  A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ) 
and solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC, have been a target of
criticism from Republicans.  Tesla and Fisker were lumped together as “losers” by  Mitt Romney , the 2012 GOP nominee, as he campaigned for president
last year. Sarah Palin, the Republican 2008 vice presidential
candidate, attacked Tesla last month in a Facebook  comment  as
“Obama-subsidized” and the loan program as an “atrocious
waste of taxpayer money.”  Musk, 41, said in an interview this month there was a need
for U.S. support following the 2008 recession.  “Particularly given the timing of where the economy was,
there was some merit to the government involvement,” Musk said
on May 2 in Hawthorne,  California .  First Profit  Tesla’s funding plan comes after the  Palo Alto , California-based company last week reported its first quarterly profit. The
next day a Consumer Reports magazine review of the Model S
scored the electric car, with a $69,900 base price, as among the
best it’s ever tested.  The carmaker in March announced an arrangement to repay its
U.S. loan in five years, rather than the original 10-year
period. Tesla didn’t clarify yesterday how much faster it would
pay back the funds.  The company said last week it made a payment of about $13
million in the first quarter.  “They are obviously striking when the iron is hot and are
probably going to find willing buyers,” said Alan Baum, analyst
at Baum & Associates in West Bloomfield,  Michigan .  CEO Musk is to buy $100 million of shares of common stock
at the same public offering price, the company said. He will
invest about $45 million in the public sale and about $55
million in a private placement.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will manage the stock offering,
and Goldman,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will
jointly manage the notes offering, Tesla said. The underwriters
have an option to buy as many as 405,454 additional shares, the
company said.  Recent gains for Tesla shares, along with  SolarCity Corp. (SCTY) ,
a solar power company also led by Musk, have raised his fortune
to $5.1 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  