-- EU Oil Manipulation Probe Shines Light on Platts Pricing
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i   a n d   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2013-05-15T12:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/eu-oil-manipulation-probe-shines-light-on-platts-pricing-window.html
Two weeks after  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
and Platts changed the way more than half of the world’s crude
is valued, the companies along with  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Statoil ASA (STL)  are
being probed by European antitrust regulators about potential
manipulation of  oil prices .  The investigation by the European Commission shines a light
on how price reporting companies including Platts, the energy
news and data provider owned by McGraw Hill Financial Inc., help
determine the cost of raw materials used in everything from
plastic bags to jet fuel. The suspected violations are related
to the Platts’  Market-On-Close  assessment process, or so-called
window, and may have been ongoing since 2002, Statoil said.  “The industry has developed a high degree of reliance, you
can almost call it dependence, on price reporting agencies,”
said John Driscoll, the managing director of JTD Energy Services
Pte., a Singapore-based energy advisory, and former trading
manager at GS Caltex. “They have tremendous discretionary power
in their ability to interpret and publish prices.”  Platts  has been assessing the cost of oil since at least
1923 when its founder, Warren Platt, started Platt’s Oilgram, a
daily newsletter devoted to prices and market information. The
influence of reporting companies has grown since the mid-1980s
when the industry began using market prices instead of a system
where they were set by international  oil companies  and the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Underpins Trading  The assessments made by reporting companies underpin long-term contracts, short-term, or spot transactions, futures
settlements and derivatives. Total SA,  Europe ’s third-biggest
oil company, estimates as much as 80 percent of all crude and
oil product deals are linked to reference prices including those
published by Platts, while as much as 20 percent use trades on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  or ICE Futures Europe.  Among the pricing companies, Platts assessments represent
as much as 95 percent of crude trades and 90 percent of oil
products and over-the-counter derivative deals, Total said in a
submission to report on oil pricing last year.  “The commission has concerns that the companies may have
colluded in reporting distorted prices to a price reporting
agency to manipulate the published prices for a number of oil
and biofuel products,” the executive arm of the EU said in its
 statement  yesterday. A single reporting company is involved,
Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s
antitrust commissioner, told reporters today in Brussels.  Price Assessments  Kathleen Tanzy, a Houston-based spokeswoman for Platts,
said the company didn’t have anything to add beyond its
confirmation yesterday that the European Commission has
undertaken a review at its office in  London  in relation to its
price assessment process and that Platts is fully cooperating
with the review.  U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said allegations of
price fixing in the oil market are “incredibly serious,” while
answering questions in Parliament.  The Market-on-Close  methodology  was introduced to Asian
refined oil products trading in 1992 and broadened to the
international crude market in 2000, according to Platts’s
website. The principle of the MOC is that Platts determines
prices at a particular time, for example 4:30 p.m. in London.  Platts Window  Assessments are based on transactions during this trading
window with deals done nearest to the cut off given precedence
over those earlier in the day. If there’s no trade, bids or
offers are used as an indicator of where companies were willing
to buy or sell. All Platts customers can view the window and any
registered company can post bids and offers.  Traders typically communicate information to reporters via
instant messenger or telephone. Companies are under no
obligation to report trading activity or partake in the MOC
process. Platts also has no legal authority over them. If a
company does not adhere to the rules or perform on a trade that
it reported in the MOC, Platts can refuse to recognize its bids,
offers or trades in the assessment process. The risk of not
participating is that the company loses influence over the
setting of prices.  The MOC process replaced a system whereby reporters made
assessments based on volume-weighted averages. This methodology,
favored by competitors including Argus Media Ltd., takes into
account deals done throughout the day. Platts moved away from
this process because it was concerned it could result in
assessments that lag actual market levels and aren’t repeatable,
Bassam Fattouh, the director of the oil and Middle East
programme at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, said in a
January 2011  report  on oil pricing.  Beyond Crude  The influence of price reporting companies stretches beyond
crude and oil products. The assessments published by Platts and
its competitors including Argus and ICIS, a unit of Reed
Business Information, are used to price the raw materials used
in the $2.2 trillion global base chemical industry as well as
coal, power, metals, emissions, liquefied natural gas and
shipping rates.  While some traders of energy commodities such as crude,
fuel oil and diesel are willing to be identified by the price
reporting services, the companies buying and selling in less
transparent markets such as polyethylene, coal, LNG and metals
typically provide information on the understanding their
identities and those of their counterparties won’t be published.  Dated Brent  High-volume contracts such as North Sea Dated Brent are
well-supplied with data from traders. Other markets rely on
reporters calling companies to gauge  price levels , and depend on
their sources being honest when they report their views. For
commodities that are not traded or reported every day, price
assessors can take into account information such as feedstock
costs to determine the price at which trades could take place
theoretically.  “Market participants are under no legal or regulatory
obligation to report their deals to price reporting agencies or
any other body,” Fattouh said in the report. “Whether
participants decide to share information depends on their
willingness, their reporting policies and their interest in
doing so.”  Platts said in March it would introduce a quality premium
for Ekofisk and Oseberg crudes, two of the four crude grades
that make up the Dated Brent marker used to price more than half
the world’s oil. The changes, which started on May 1, were
designed boost trading liquidity and to take into account their
superior quality over the other two grades, Forties and Brent,
that make up Dated Brent, Platts said at the time. That came
after Shell made adjustments to its trading contract.  Third Time  The European investigation marks the third time global
pricing benchmarks have drawn the regulators’ scrutiny in the
past year following investigations into bank manipulation of the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and ISDAFix, the
benchmark for the $379 trillion swaps market.  The International Organization of Security Commissions
concluded in October that price assessments could be vulnerable
to manipulation because traders participate voluntarily, meaning
they may selectively submit only trades that benefit their
positions. Total said in a submission to the forum of global
regulators that the published oil price is wrong “several times
a year.”  Argus and ICIS joined Platts in publishing a self-regulatory code in April 2012 in response to Iosco’s findings.  Market Manipulation  Statoil is taking the investigation “very seriously” and
cooperating to the best of its ability, Chief Executive Officer
 Helge Lund  said today in an interview in Harstad,  Norway .  Lund said he’s been given “very limited” information
about which products and markets are being investigated, adding
that it’s “important to underline that this is a suspicion, not
a conclusion.”  In April 2012, Optiver Holding BV and three employees
agreed to pay $14 million to settle market-manipulation
allegations by U.S. regulators. The Dutch proprietary-trading
firm used a high-frequency trading program called the “Hammer”
in 2007 to affect the settlement prices of crude, heating oil
and gasoline traded on Nymex. As part of the settlement, Optiver
didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
those companies in providing energy markets news and
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  