-- EU Tells China to Slow Telecom-Gear Exports or Face Duty Threat
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-05-15T12:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/eu-tells-china-to-slow-telecom-gear-exports-or-face-duty-threat.html
The European Union warned China of
possible tariffs on mobile-telecommunications equipment unless
the government in Beijing curbs exports, the latest EU salvo
against Chinese threats to manufacturers in Europe.  The European Commission said it was prepared to probe
possible Chinese subsidies to telecom-network makers such as
Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063)  and the possible sale of
the equipment in the EU below cost, a practice known as dumping.
The inquiries would cover EU imports of more than 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) a year and determine whether these
shipments unfairly harmed European producers such as  Ericsson
AB. (ERICB)   “This decision will not be activated for the time being to
allow for negotiations toward an amicable solution with the
Chinese authorities,” John Clancy, trade spokesman at the
commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm in Brussels, told
reporters today. “The clock is ticking.”  The threat of European tariffs against China’s telecom-network manufacturers highlights the EU’s growing concerns about
Chinese dominance of markets in Europe and its readiness to make
imports more expensive in a bid to aid domestic competitors. The
EU is the biggest export market for  China , which is the bloc’s
second-largest trading partner, after the U.S.  While China already faces more EU anti-dumping duties than
any other country, the bloc over the past three years has
pursued a new front in the battle to protect European industry
from Chinese rivals by scrutinizing alleged trade-distorting
government aid to them.  Anti-Subsidy Duties  In May 2011, the EU imposed anti-subsidy duties against
China for the first time by targeting imports of paper with
levies as high as 12 percent. In March this year, the bloc
applied such levies against China for the second time by taxing
imports of some steel with tariffs of up to 44.7 percent. In two
separate investigations, the EU is threatening to slap anti-subsidy duties on bicycles and solar panels from China.  Unlike the subsidy probes to date and standard dumping
investigations, the inquiries into possible Chinese subsidies to
mobile-telecom network makers and any dumping by them in Europe
would stem not from a complaint by European producers but from
the commission’s own initiative.  “This possibility is  particularly important  as it offers a
shield when the risk of retaliation against European companies
asking for trade-defense instruments is high,” the commission
said in a statement.  EU subsidy and dumping probes start with an announcement in
the bloc’s Official Journal and can last as long as 13 months
and 15 months, respectively. After  nine months , the commission
can impose provisional duties. Within a maximum of 15 months, EU
governments must decide whether to apply “definitive” five-year levies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  