-- Euro-Style Bail-In Plan Means Bondholder Wipe-Out: Brazil Credit
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-05-15T20:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/euro-style-bail-in-plan-means-bondholder-wipe-out-brazil-credit.html
Brazil is drafting rules that would
wipe out some creditors of failing banks in an effort to avoid
taxpayer rescues, echoing European proposals to make bondholders
shoulder more costs after three bailouts in as many years.  The central bank said May 6 it had prepared a draft of a
“bail-in” proposal that would impose losses on holders of
subordinated and unsecured bonds in case of insolvency and use
their investments to revive the lenders. The measure would boost
funding costs for the nation’s investment-grade banks, which
currently pay a near record-low 3.77 percent on  average  to
borrow dollars in the  bond market , according to Carlos Thadeu de Freitas Gomes, a former central bank director.  The proposal, similar to one being considered by European
Union lawmakers, comes after seven Brazilian banks became
insolvent in the past three years and the  deposit insurance fund 
spent 3.8 billion reais ($1.9 billion) to rescue Banco
Panamericano SA. The rules would clarify risks for investors,
save taxpayer money, and shield policy makers from political
pressure to rescue lenders that took excessive risks, even as it
pushes up costs for financial firms, said Freitas, now the chief
economist at the National Commerce Confederation.  “It’ll help establish order and more transparency,”
Freitas said in a telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .
“Investors know that, if there is a bankruptcy, they will have
to cover the costs.”  Guiding Principles  Brazil’s insurance deposit fund, known as FGC, didn’t
respond to e-mail and telephone requests for details on money it
committed to help rescue financial institutions that became
insolvent. The central bank’s press office said it was unable to
provide that information.  While yields on bank bonds jumped in the weeks following
Banco Panamericano’s bailout, funding costs are now lower than
those of investment-grade banks in  Mexico , which currently  pay 
about 4 percent on average to borrow dollars in the bond market.  Authorities have dealt with distressed banks on a case-by-case basis in recent years, operating without any public guiding
principles on which should be rescued, said Maria Celina Vansetti-Hutchins, a managing director at Moody’s Investors
Service in  New York City .  The central bank says its proposal is almost ready to be
sent to Congress for debate.  Defining Liability  Of the lenders that became insolvent since 2010, three were
liquidated, three were rescued and sold, and the fate of another
is still to be determined.  Banco Panamericano received cash injections and a line of
credit from state-owned minority shareholder Caixa Economica
Federal and then was bought in January 2011 by  Banco BTG Pactual
SA (BPAC3) , which took a 1.3 billion real loan from the non-government
deposit-insurance fund. Bondholders suffered no losses.  In contrast,  Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA  was wound down by the
central bank in September 2012 after it failed to find a buyer,
sticking investors holding $1.6 billion of bonds with the
biggest corporate default in  Latin America  in a decade.  Regulators found “serious” violations and unfunded
liabilities at the Sao Paulo-based lender that made it
impossible to resume normal operations, the central bank said in
September.  The draft proposal from the central bank would shift the
burden of saving troubled banks from regulators to bondholders,
said Moody’s Vansetti-Hutchins.  “It defines the liability of the government in regards to
the management of the financial system,” Vansetti-Hutchins said
in a telephone interview.  Protecting Taxpayers  The FGC now secures deposits up to 70,000 reais, and there
is a proposal to increase that amount to 250,000 reais. While
deposits of more than 100,000 euros faced losses in Cyprus’
rescue package this year, those FGC-protected funds would not be
tapped in the event of a bank insolvency. Forcing depositors in
 Brazil  to take losses would be a last resort, according to the
bill.  Authorities are also signaling their intention to protect
taxpayers from losses tied to the troubled banks, said Franklin Santarelli, a managing director at Fitch Ratings Ltd.  “The idea that they have to aid any bank is over,”
Santarelli said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“Whether that includes banks of systemic importance is another
question.”  ‘Bail-In Powers’  European Union lawmakers will begin voting this month on a
bill that would grant “bail-in powers” to regulators, after
the region’s banking crisis prompted wide-spread criticism
against the use of public money to prop up banks.  The Dutch government’s unprecedented expropriation of SNS
Reaal NV’s subordinated debt when the bank was nationalized this
year wiped out creditors holding about 900 million euros ($1.2
billion) of the Utrecht, Netherlands-based lender’s debt
securities. It was the first time European authorities have
immediately wiped out holders of dated subordinated bonds of a
bailed-out bank, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The amount paid by borrowers will continue to be determined
in large part by banks’ financial stability, not the bail-in
measure, according to Mauricio Costa de Moura, the chief of
staff for the Brazilian central bank’s office on financial
system organization.  “If you are going to put money in a company that you are
not sure about, you are going to ask for a greater premium
whether or not the bail-in option exists,” Moura said in an
interview in Brasilia on May 7. “If you are going to put your
resources in a solid institution, you are not going to pay more
because there’s a possibility of a bail-in in the future.”  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  widened three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 167 basis points at
3:51 p.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes.  The cost to protect Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose one basis point to 119 basis points. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails
to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real depreciated 0.2 percent to 2.0245 per U.S. dollar
Swap rates due in January 2014 increased one basis point to 7.97
percent.  The proposed bankruptcy legislation may prompt bank
creditors to demand more compensation when they invest because
they could lose their money in a recapitalization, according to
Klaus Spielkamp, a fixed-income trader at Bulltick Capital
Markets.  “Once the market realizes the lower protection they have
on their investments, they will demand higher returns,”
Spielkamp said in a telephone interview from Miami. “The
creditor will be more restrictive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  