-- Teva U.S. Jump Widens Holiday Discount: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-05-15T22:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/teva-u-s-jump-widens-holiday-discount-israel-overnight.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
resumes trading today in  Tel Aviv (TEVA)  at the biggest discount to  New
York  in 2 1/2 years after the prospect of acquisitions among
generic-drug makers fueled gains in its U.S.-traded stock.  Teva, the world’s biggest maker of generic medicines, rose
1.8 percent to $39.95 in the U.S. over the past two days that
Israeli markets were closed for a holiday. The advance boosted
American depositary receipts of the Petach Tikva, Israel-based
company to trade $1.95 above  Tel Aviv , where Teva shares closed
at 139 shekels May 13, or $38. The gap is the widest since Jan.
7, 2011. The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index added 1.3 percent
over the past two days in New York.  Teva, the most acquisitive generic-drug maker in the past
three years, has been rising after Parsippany, New Jersey-based
 Actavis Inc. (ACT)  said last week it was in talks to buy  Warner
Chilcott Plc (WCRX) , which makes birth-control medicine. Actavis’s
actions have stoked speculation Teva is also hunting for deals,
according to Gabelli & Co. and Piper Jaffray & Co. Jeremy Levin,
Teva’s chief executive officer, said May 2 that the company
would seek expansion through small acquisitions.  “Teva has been benefiting from some of the chatter,”
 David Amsellem , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co., who rates
Actavis the equivalent of buy and Teva neutral, said by phone
from New York yesterday. “There’s no question that Teva could
easily be acquisitive. They’ve been paying down debt, generate a
lot of  cash flow  and have a CEO that’s been an active
dealmaker.”  Early Stage  Shares of Actavis surged 13 percent last week after
Bloomberg News reported that it’s in early-stage negotiations to
acquire  Warner Chilcott , which the companies later confirmed.
The talks came after Actavis’s discussions to sell itself to
Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. stalled over price,
people familiar with the matter said.  Other people said that Actavis rejected a $120-a-share
takeover offer from Mylan Inc. Teva looked at Actavis, said one
of the people, though the Israeli company is more keen on
smaller acquisitions, one of the people said.  “Speculation was that they looked,” Kevin Kedra, analyst
at Gabelli, who rates both Teva and Actavis a buy, said by phone
from Rye, New York yesterday. “They weren’t necessarily
interested, but Teva said they’re looking to be active.”  Warner Chilcott rose 7.1 percent since the talks were
reported by  Bloomberg News  on May 11. Actavis added 3.4 percent,
while Teva increased 2.7 percent.  13 Deals  Teva completed 13 deals with an average value of $968.5
million over the past three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. As of March 31, Teva had  $3.82 billion  in free cash
flow, the highest in its history, Bloomberg data show. The
company’s total debt has declined 14 percent since the end of
2012 to $12.7 billion.  Levin assumed the chief executive role in May 2012 from
Bristol-Myers Squibb & Co., the maker of the blood thinner
Plavix, to help the company diversify its stable of medicines
and products. The company will cut as much as $2 billion of
costs in the next five years, Levin said as he laid out his
strategy in December.  “I don’t think he’ll be active in acquiring generic
assets,” Jason Gerberry, an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in
 Boston , said by phone yesterday. He has the equivalent of a hold
rating on Teva and Actavis and a buy on Warner Chilcott. “It’s
more likely he’ll be active in acquiring branded assets that
have longer exclusivity periods with them and will be more
durable.”  Mellanox Technologies  Charlie Mayr, a spokesman at Actavis, declined to comment
beyond the company’s May 10 statement. Rochelle Fuhrmann, senior
vice president of finance at Dublin-based Warner Chilcott,
didn’t respond to a phone call or e-mail. Representatives at
Montreal-based Valeant, Mylan in Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , and
Teva declined to comment.  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index added 0.4 percent to
92.59, the highest in 13 months.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  rose 3.4 percent to $55, the
highest price since April 24. The maker of data transferral and
storage software announced after the U.S. markets closed that it
agreed to acquire Monterey Park, California-based Kotura Inc.
for $82 million. The company is a developer of advanced silicon
photonics optical interconnect technology.  CaesarStone Sdot Yam Ltd. climbed the most on the Israel-US
gauge, jumping 3.9 percent to $26.69, a record high. SodaStream
International Ltd. slipped 1.6 percent to $63.05, for the
biggest decline on the index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  