-- Mexico Peso Falls as U.S. Output Decline Stokes Economic Concern
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-05-15T15:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/mexico-peso-falls-as-u-s-output-decline-stokes-economic-concern.html
Mexico ’s peso fell for a fifth day,
the longest stretch of losses since November, on speculation
slower global growth will damp the outlook for exports of  Latin
America ’s second-biggest economy.  The peso depreciated 0.3 percent to 12.2304 per  U.S. dollar 
at 9:54 a.m. in Mexico City, paring its rally this year to 5.1
percent, still the biggest among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The peso dropped today as the  Federal Reserve  reported that
industrial production in the U.S., Mexico’s biggest trading
partner, fell in April by the most in eight months. Mexico’s
output slid in March three times more than analysts had
forecast, a report showed last week. Mexico sends about 80
percent of its exports to its northern neighbor.  “Concerns about the state of the global economy” have
been fueling the peso’s drop, Aryam Vazquez, a global emerging-markets economist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “The data mix in Mexico hasn’t been too
robust and certainly speaks to a slowing economy, and that
certainly opens up the debate concerning the central bank and
whether it’s going to take action a lot sooner than many had
expected.”  Central bank board members said in minutes of their April
26 policy meeting, published on May 10, that “there are
downside risks to growth” for Mexico. Policy makers left the
target lending rate at a record low 4 percent last month after
cutting it by a half-percentage point on March 8.  Yields on six-month swaps tied to the  interbank rate  have
fallen 0.07 percentage point to 4.21 percent after central bank
Governor Agustin Carstens signaled in an April 29 radio
interview that the bank may consider more reducing borrowing
costs if inflation eases. That level of swap rates indicates
that traders project a 52 percent chance of a cut by October. As
recently as May 3, traders saw a 32 percent chance.  Annual inflation  in Latin America’s second-biggest economy
was 4.65 percent in April, above the nation’s 2 percent to 4
percent target range.  The yield on peso bonds due in 2024 fell two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.67 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose 0.27 centavo to 147.67
centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  