-- Explosives Next Door Unnerve Towns With Fertilizer Plants
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-05-15T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/explosives-next-door-unnerve-towns-with-fertilizer-plants.html
Employees at McKee Lumber Co. in
Corsicana,  Texas , were discussing last month’s deadly blast at a
fertilizer plant 50 miles away one recent morning when talk
turned to their neighbor:  El Dorado Chemical Co .  El Dorado sells fertilizer about 300 feet from the lumber
yard, including ammonium nitrate. That is the chemical suspected
in the explosion April 17 at a similar facility in West, Texas,
killing 14 and leaving a crater 93 feet wide by 10 feet deep (28
meters by 3 meters).  “For people near fertilizer plants, this has just brought
an awareness,” said Tim Young, the Corsicana lumber yard’s
manager. “If it catches fire, I’m gone,” he said, swinging a
finger in the direction he’d flee.  The disaster in West has revived a debate about whether
fertilizer distributorships should be permitted in populated
areas. No federal regulations prevent them from being near
cities, schools or hospitals. State and local regulations vary
widely.  The wooden building that houses the El Dorado facility
abuts the red brick streets of downtown Corsicana, a city of
23,000 less than an hour’s drive south of  Dallas . The entire
central business district, including shops, restaurants,
churches, city and county buildings and schools, lies within a
mile of the plant -- which is authorized to house 18 times as
much of the chemical as the facility that leveled West.  “If something did happen, it would be big,” Joshua Boyd,
co-owner of Muddy Motives ATV on East 3rd Street, said from
behind the counter. “A lot of people don’t know that.”  No Prohibitions  While ammonium nitrate makes up just 2 percent of nitrogen
fertilizer used in the U.S., it’s most widely used on pasture
land and for citrus crops in states such as Missouri, Tennessee,
 Alabama  and Texas, according to the Association of American
Plant Food Control Officials. In Texas alone, 115 facilities are
registered to store or sell ammonium nitrate, according to Ben
Jones, associate director of the  Office of the Texas State
Chemist .  “Anywhere there are crops grown, you are going to have a
feed, seed and fertilizer dealer,” Stephen McMurry, president
of the association of plant officials, said in an interview.
“In any farming community, they are going to have one fairly
close.”  Across the nation,  more than 2,400  businesses stock
ammonium nitrate, according to the U.S. Department of  Homeland
Security .  Pervasive Problem  “The problem of dangerous chemicals housed right near
where people live is very pervasive,”  Paul Orum, an
independent consultant who has published reports on chemical
safety for the Center for American Progress in  Washington , said
in an interview. “It needs a systemic, long-term solution.”  Investigators are still probing the cause of the fire and
blast in West, which destroyed an apartment block, school and
nursing home. A 15th death is being investigated as potentially
related. Last week authorities announced that they had opened a
criminal probe of the disaster.  The independent U.S.  Chemical Safety Board  says damage
caused by the blast at the West plant, owned by Adair Grain
Inc., is the worst the agency has ever investigated.  The Adair plant was approved to store 270 tons of ammonium
nitrate. El Dorado is authorized to hold 5,000 tons, according
to state health department records. Inside the warehouse, white
pearls of ammonium nitrate spill from a row of 10-foot high
wooden bins labeled “Nitrate 34-0-0.”  Deadly Accidents  Ammonium nitrate should be isolated from population centers
and stored in a fireproof building, rather than being held in a
wooden building in a town center, said Chris Damas, a chemist and a
fertilizer analyst with  BCMI Research , an independent investment
and consulting company with headquarters in Barrie, Ontario.  “If it were detonated in an intense fire, 4,500 tons of
ammonium nitrate would probably blow downtown Corsicana off the
face of the Earth,” Damas said by phone.  The highly explosive chemical is responsible for some of
the deadliest industrial accidents and terrorist attacks.
Timothy McVeigh used it in 1995 to destroy  Oklahoma City ’s
Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, killing 168 people. An
explosion of a ship carrying it in 1947 in  Texas City , Texas,
killed 581 and ranks as the worst U.S. industrial accident.  Government Oversight  The explosion in West caused more than $100 million in
property damage and registered 2.1 magnitude on earthquake
monitors. It has also spotlighted gaps in government oversight
of chemical safety. The administration of President  Barack Obama 
has spent four years working to develop rules to track sales of
ammonium nitrate. Republicans in Congress thwarted legislation
that would have prodded chemical companies to shift to safer
products. And the rules that do exist have been criticized by
government watchdogs as inadequate or poorly implemented.  Orum, the consultant, said the Environmental Protection
Agency could add ammonium nitrate to its various risk-management
lists, including one that would mandate local emergency
committees plan for a possible explosion. Tax breaks could be
used to induce facilities to move away from towns; local zoning
boards can keep development from encroaching on plants, he said.  In Corsicana, the El Dorado fertilizer warehouse has been
in its current location since at least the 1970s, predating
establishment of the city’s zoning ordinance in 1981, said City
Manager Connie Standridge. In the event of an emergency,
everyone in town could be phoned with an evacuation message in
less than a minute, Mayor Chuck McClanahan said.  “Our fire department is on top of it and understands the
dangers that are there,” Standridge said. “I believe we have
done as much as possible to protect our citizens without
violating any property rights that company might have from being
there so long.”  LSB Industries  Corsicana’s fertilizer dealer is owned by  LSB Industries
Inc. (LXU) , based in Oklahoma City. It distributes ammonium nitrate at
17 El Dorado dealers in the South, including 15 in Texas, making
it the state’s leading retailer of the potentially explosive
fertilizer. Ten of LSB’s facilities in Texas are authorized to
hold 5,000 tons of ammonium nitrate and five can store as much
as 500 tons in inventory, according to state records.  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , the largest U.S. farm-products retailer, is
exiting the business of selling ammonium nitrate because of the
risk, said Richard Downey, a spokesman. Only two of the
company’s 700 farm centers still sell ammonium nitrate, “and
they will soon be out of it entirely,” he said.  Ammonium nitrate is the cheapest form of nitrogen,
typically mixed into irrigation water with other nutrients, said
Damas, the consultant. It is particularly popular with cotton
and citrus growers, he said.  Industry Oversight  Corporate oversight makes LSB facilities safer than
independent operations such as the distributor in West, Barry H. Golsen, LSB president and chief operating officer said on a May
6 conference call.  “If there was industry oversight that basically came in
and said, ’We’re going to make sure that you’re in compliance
with all applicable regulations,’ it would probably have minimal
impact on us, since we already comply with all applicable
regulations,” Golsen said on the call.  LSB’s plants and retailers have experienced fires and
explosions in recent years.  In May 2012, a blast at an LSB plant that makes nitric
acid, an ingredient in ammonium nitrate, destroyed the factory
in El Dorado,  Arkansas , and damaged a second plant. In November,
an LSB ammonia plant was damaged in Cherokee, Alabama, after a
pipe ruptured. No injuries were reported in either incident.  80,000 Evacuated  LSB’s El Dorado retailer in Bryan, Texas, caught fire in
July 2009, prompting evacuations for 80,000 people in Bryan and
nearby  College Station , according to a report in The Eagle, a
local newspaper. Not everyone was aware of the evacuation order
because local officials neglected to activate the Emergency
Alert System, which interrupts radio and television broadcasts.  Firefighters, aware of the ammonium nitrate inside the
wooden building, kept clear and let the fire burn. More than 50
people sought medical attention, according to the Houston
Chronicle. LSB rebuilt the structure using concrete.  Fred Buonocore, a spokesman for LSB with The Equity Group
in  New York , didn't respond to a written request for comment
on the safety of LSB’s dealerships in populated areas, including
Corsicana, or the previous fires and explosions at its plants.  Corsicana Fire Chief Donald McMullan said he’ll examine
whether the local El Dorado warehouse should be replaced with
concrete, as in Bryan. If a fire started there, he said the
incident commander probably would have firefighters set
stationary hoses on the blaze and evacuate everyone within at
least half a mile.  Muddy Motives  McMullan said his department of 58 emergency responders
spread across four fire stations will review its procedures in
light of the fertilizer explosion in West.  “We’ll re-look at everything we do from planning to
training to communication,” he said in an interview at his
office.  Corsicana Fire Marshall James Palos said there has never
been a fire call from the El Dorado warehouse during his 24
years on the job.  “Part of it is prevention,” Palos said, noting that fire
officials inspect every business annually.  El Dorado reaches its ammonium nitrate capacity only a few
days each year, usually at the height of planting season, he
said. Some growers in the region farm thousands of acres and may
buy 50 tons of nitrogen fertilizer in a day, Palos said.  Joyce Cooper, owner of Cooper’s Closet Resale, said local
officials need to do a better job of informing the community
that their lives could be at risk from the fertilizer seller two
blocks away from her store.  “If we have the potential for an explosion, let’s put
plans in place,” Cooper said, seated behind a desk in the
second hand shop. “A wise man learns from the mistakes of
others and that’s what people need to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  