-- Bank Regulators See Progress on Cross-Border Resolution Accords
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-15T22:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/fed-s-gibson-says-regulators-need-consistent-laws-to-close-banks.html
U.S. bank regulators are boosting
efforts to set up agreements for shuttering failing banks with
officials in overseas hubs such as  Switzerland  and Japan, said
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Martin Gruenberg .  Agencies including the FDIC are building on “significant
commonality” with their counterparts in the U.K. and have been
in talks with Swiss and Japanese regulators, Gruenberg said
today in a speech at the Exchequer Club in  Washington .  “I think there is actually potential for the U.S., the
U.K. and the Swiss to collaborate together on cross-border
resolution,” he said in the remarks delivered before officials
from the FDIC, Treasury Department and  Federal Reserve  testified
at a Senate hearing on the topic.  U.S. lawmakers are pressing the Fed and other regulators to
eradicate perceptions that a government safety net remains for
the largest banks.  Fed officials  are implementing the Dodd-Frank
Act, which requires banks to provide plans for how they would be
unwound after a collapse and gives the FDIC authority to resolve
complex financial institutions.  Gruenberg -- who pointed out his agency’s cross-border
negotiations are focused on the U.K., European Union,  Japan  and
Switzerland -- said that talks are ongoing with Japan, and that
he hopes to have a “principals-level meeting” with Japanese
regulators this year.  Favored Approach  Switzerland -- home to  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  --
is working off the U.S.-favored approach of winding down failed
banks through parent holding companies, leaving healthy units
operating, Gruenberg said in his speech.  Regulators around the world need to achieve consistency
among laws governing the shutdown of a large, global bank, the
 Fed’s (FDTR)  top bank supervisor said in Senate testimony.  “We need to take additional actions to promote regulatory
cooperation among home and host supervisors in the event of the
failure of an internationally active, systemic financial firm,”
 Michael Gibson , director of the Fed’s Division of Banking
Supervision and Regulation, said in comments prepared for a
Senate Banking Committee subcommittee.  “Much remains to be done” to assure consistent procedures
for shutting down banks that may have subsidiaries spread
through different regulatory regimes around the world, Gibson
said.  The Fed and FDIC are using Dodd-Frank’s requirement that
banks produce so-called living wills on how to take themselves
through a hypothetical bankruptcy as a means to press for
changes that will ease the process if they fail, Gibson said.  Learning Experience  After the learning experience of the first round of living
wills last year, “it remains to be seen how much progress the
firms will demonstrate” in the second round, Jim Wigand, the
FDIC’s director of complex financial institutions, said at the
Senate hearing.  Wigand said the FDIC board is “prepared to look at its
authorities” in correcting deficiencies in the plans, which
includes the power to impose additional capital and liquidity
requirements and to force banks to divest some operations.  Senator  Mark Warner , the Virginia Democrat who leads the
National Security and International Trade and Finance
subcommittee, said regulators were given “enormous power” to
demand banks be safer to dismantle in a crisis.  “I’m personally hopeful that you will use those tools
somewhat aggressively,” Warner said.  The Fed and FDIC are also discussing a proposal that would
require the largest financial firms to hold a minimum amount of
long-term unsecured debt to bear potential losses or help
capitalize a bridge holding company for a financial institution
being shut down, Gibson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  