-- FIFA May Move World Cup Games as Brazil Struggles With Building
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-15T18:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/fifa-may-move-world-cup-games-as-brazil-struggles-with-building.html
Soccer’s governing body warned that
it would move World Cup matches should Brazilian cities fail to
complete construction projects in time for next year’s event.  FIFA’s general secretary  Jerome Valcke  is examining some of
the venues being used for the Confederations Cup, an eight-team
competition seen as a warm-up for the  World Cup ,  sport’s most-watched event. He said the stadium in Sao Paulo, which will host
the opening match, will be ready, after yesterday saying delays
could mean Brazil’s commercial hub would miss out.  “We can’t reduce any requirement: on any competition that
would be fine, except at the World Cup,” Valcke told reporters
after inspecting the Maracana stadium, the Rio de Janeiro venue
that will host both the finals of the World Cup and the
Confederations Cup. “The World Cup is 99 percent of the FIFA
system. The World Cup has to be perfect. The World Cup is the
diamond of FIFA.”  FIFA , based in Zurich, makes almost all of its $1.2 billion
in annual income from the quadrennial tournament through sales
of television rights and sponsorship agreements with companies
including  Adidas AG (ADS) , Coca-Cola Co. and Visa Inc.  Several cities have struggled to meet deadlines imposed by
FIFA. Valcke, who was joined on today’s visit by the country’s
Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo and Rio Governor Sergio Cabral, was
asked several times about the Arena Corinthians in Sao Paulo,
which beat competition from national capital Brasilia and Belo
Horizonte to stage the World Cup’s first game.  Construction Delays  Valcke today said the Sao Paulo site would be ready by
December, even though construction company Odebrecht said
installing the temporary seating needed to increase the 48,000-seat facility to the required 70,000 for the World Cup would
take until at least February. The World Cup opens June 12, 2014.  Valcke, who oversees the World Cup for FIFA, said his
organization would meet with politicians and other stakeholders,
including Odebrecht, in the next few days to ensure the stadium
is ready.  “I can tell you this stadium will be delivered in December
2013,” Valcke said.  FIFA is also facing delays with World Cup stadiums in
Natal, Coritbia and Cuiaba. Valcke described the Maracana as a
“Mecca” of soccer and congratulated workers on their efforts
to get it ready before the Confederations Cup. Construction
missed several deadlines and the facility will only have one
match at capacity -- a June 2 exhibition between  Brazil  and
 England  -- before the June 15 start of the tournament.  Iconic Stadium  The Maracana was built for the 1950 World Cup, the only
other time Brazil hosted the tournament. Its three-year
refurbishment at a cost of more than $500 million has faced
criticism over delays in construction, costs and plans to
privatize the venue.  “I know that the refurbishing of Maracana to a certain
extent was faced with controversy compared to the first
construction of the stadium,” Sports Minister Rebelo said. “I
think the visit to Maracana in this last phase after
refurbishing the stadium gives us the conviction that Brazil and
Rio de Janeiro in fact do have the stadium back with a stage
that will be at the right standard for the final match of the
World Cup.”  FIFA faced similar delays and problems with construction
when South Africa in 2010 became the first African country to
stage the tournament. Valcke reminded reporters that then,
unlike now, one of the Confederations Cup venues, Port
Elizabeth, had to be withdrawn over concerns it wouldn’t be
ready.  “It created a lot of noise and tension between the city
and us,” he said. “But this different here, we have been
active, we have been helping, often criticizing and pushing. I
have to recognize the marvelous job which has been done by the
different cities in order to deliver the stadiums beyond
deadline but definitely before the Confederations Cup.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  