-- Fitbit Flex Leads Wrist-Tracker Pack: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2013-05-15T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/fitbit-flex-leads-wrist-tracker-pack-rich-jaroslovsky.html
The main drawback to Fitbit’s
wearable activity monitors may be how unobtrusive they are. To
hear users tell it, their trackers have taken more unplanned
trips through the washing machine than a crumpled dollar bill.  Meet the new  Flex , which for the first time puts Fitbit’s
technology into a wristband. Even simpler than the already
uncomplicated clip-on versions, the band is also more powerful,
and there’s much less danger of forgetting it’s there.  The $100 Flex joins an increasingly crowded field of
devices jostling for wrist-share, including  Jawbone’s UP  and the
 Nike (NKE) + Fuelband. But it’s the best of the bunch.  The Flex package includes the wristband itself, a
comfortably light, rubberized strap slightly thicker on one
side, and the sensor, which lives in the band except when you
pop it into its USB-powered charging bracket every five days or
so.  If you have an iPhone or compatible Android phone, you’ll
most likely use Fitbit’s excellent free app, available in the
 Apple App Store  and from  Google Play , to sync your data.
(There’s also a Bluetooth adapter for use with a personal
computer.)  Wireless syncing is one of the Flex’s big advantages over
the UP, which requires you to remove a small, eminently losable
tip in order to physically connect the band with your phone’s
audio port.  Full Loop  Another Flex advantage is that it makes a complete loop
around your wrist, unlike the UP’s overlapping ends, which get
caught more easily on sleeves.  Then again, I had a devil of a time with the Flex’s clasp,
which holds it securely but requires a significant amount of
fiddling and pressure to close properly. (The company says it’s
working on tweaking the design.)  Like its clip-on Fitbit siblings, the Flex is primarily
focused on how many steps you take. The default goal is 10,000 a
day, which experts say is a pretty good yardstick for moderate,
healthy activity.  But unlike other Fitbits, as well as most other step-counters, the Flex can recognize and give you credit for some
non-walking activities. In my case, the band recognized time I
spent on a stationary bike and translated it into an equivalent
number of steps to help me meet my daily goal.  That was a big deal for me, providing what felt like a much
more accurate picture of my general activity.  Constant Companion  The Flex is an almost 24-hour-a-day companion. At night, if
you remember to tell it you’re going to bed by tapping it, it
tracks your sleep patterns. It also includes a silent alarm that
vibrates to rouse you without bothering a still-snoozing
partner.  It’s sufficiently water resistant that I wore it in the
shower repeatedly with no ill effects, though the company does
recommend removing it while swimming.  Unlike the  Fuelband  and Fitbit’s other trackers, which can
show letters and numbers, the Flex doesn’t provide you with a
lot of information at a glance. Its entire display, visible only
when you tap it, consists of five tiny lights that illuminate
based on how far you’ve progressed toward your daily goal; two
lights, for instance, means you’re 40 percent of the way there.  App Access  I missed being able to get more information directly from
the Flex, but it wasn’t far away. All I had to do was pull out
my phone and access the app, which uses low-energy Bluetooth
technology to minimize the battery drain.  More than just a display for the Flex, the app can be used
to set goals and to log your food, water consumption, weight and
activities the Flex can’t track, such as yoga. And for a little
mutual reinforcement, you can connect with friends to compare
step totals.  Wearable tech is still in its infancy but growing rapidly.
 Google (GOOG)  is getting reams of publicity for its Google Glass, which
currently is available only to developers, while rumors continue
to swirl around  Apple. (AAPL)  Jawbone recently doubled down in health
and wellness by acquiring device-maker BodyMedia and app
developer Massive Health.  Eventually, one of them may well rule the wrist. But for
now, Fitbit is at the head of the pack.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and Lance
Esplund on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .
On Twitter:  www.twitter.com/richjaro .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 