-- Fliers Accept Fees as Airlines’ Consumer Rating Improves
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-05-15T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/fliers-accept-fees-as-airlines-consumer-rating-improves.html
North American airlines earned their
highest rating for passenger satisfaction since 2006, before the
advent of baggage fees, in a survey showing the value of smiling
employees, onboard Wi-Fi and mobile applications.  Customers reported better experiences with both segments of
the industry, the traditional full-service carriers such as
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and low-cost competitors including  JetBlue
Airways Corp. (JBLU) , market researcher  J.D. Power & Associates  said
today in its 2013 North America Airline Satisfaction Study.  Travelers who checked in with a mobile app, surfed the Web
in flight and consistently received warm service helped buoy
airlines’ rankings, according to  Westlake Village , California-based J.D. Power. The study found fewer objections than in the
past to  luggage charges  and  booking-change  payments, which
totaled a record $6.1 billion in 2012.  “With each year, passengers are increasingly more
accepting of carriers unbundling baggage and other fees,” Ramez
Faza, senior manager of J.D. Power’s travel practice, said in a
statement.  On a 1,000-point scale, customer satisfaction across the
industry was 695, 14 points higher than in the 2012 survey,  J.D.
Power  said. The score for full-service airlines rose 16 points
to 663, and low-cost carriers gained one point to 755.  ‘Negative Impact’  While “charging for bags still has a pronounced negative
impact on passenger satisfaction,” according to Faza, the study
found that 37 percent of travelers who checked luggage said the
fees are reasonable, up from 28 percent a year earlier. Airlines
in the U.S. began adopting baggage fees in 2008.  The annual study was based on responses from 11,800
business and leisure fliers on “major” North American airlines
and measures passenger satisfaction in seven categories: cost
and fees; in-flight services; boarding, deplaning and baggage;
flight crew; aircraft; check-in and reservations.  The largest year-over-year improvements involved boarding,
deplaning and baggage, followed by check-in and aircraft.  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK) ’s Alaska Airlines ranked highest
among carriers with at least two cabin classes, followed by
Delta and  Air Canada. (AC/A)  The low-cost segment was led by JetBlue,
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and  Canada ’s  WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA)   “Traditional carriers have improved significantly across
all seven factors, and it is a positive sign to see them turn a
corner and starting to rise again,” said Jessica McGregor,
senior manager of J.D. Power’s global travel and hospitality
practice.  Flight Crew  Satisfaction with flight crews climbed to the highest since
2005. Travelers smiled at by employees at least occasionally had
an average satisfaction score 105 points higher than those who
never received one. The rating was 211 points higher for those
who consistently got a smile, the study found.  In other ways, technology improved travelers’ experience by
letting them bypass personal interaction with airline staff.  The survey showed 36 percent of passengers check in for
flights online, while 15 percent use a mobile device, more than
double the 6 percent share two years ago.  Satisfaction was
highest for users of mobile apps, at 866, followed by use of a
mobile device, 853. Check-ins at a kiosk had an average score of
805, trailed by an 801 for queuing up at the main ticket
counter.  J.D. Power & Associates is a unit of McGraw Hill Financial
Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  