-- Food-Stamp Boost Rejected as House Panel Debates Farm Law
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-05-16T04:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/food-stamp-boost-rejected-as-house-panel-debates-farm-law.html
Democrats on the House Agriculture
Committee failed to restore cuts in federal food-stamp spending
as the panel approved yesterday a $940 billion bill
reauthorizing U.S. Department of Agriculture programs.  The measure, sent to the House floor on a 36-10 vote, would
cut $40 billion in the next decade by eliminating $20.5 billion
over that period for nutrition programs including  food stamps  --
five times as much as proposed in a Senate Agriculture Committee
plan approved earlier this week.  Food stamp spending was $78.4 billion in 2012. Farm
subsidies and environmental initiatives would be cut in both
versions, and crop insurance would increase $8.9 billion in the
House version and $5 billion in the Senate plan.  “Farmers, ranchers and American taxpayers are counting on
us to pass a farm bill,” House Agriculture Committee Chairman
 Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma Republican, said before the vote.
“This committee will mark up a reform-minded bill that was
developed with true bipartisanship.”  The House farm-policy bill, like the Senate’s, includes
$6.4 billion in mandatory budget cuts known as sequestration
that began taking effect March 1. Crop subsidies benefiting
buyers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and food stamps
subsidizing purchases at  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  are targets for
lawmakers seeking to trim the deficit.  “No other committee in Congress is voluntarily cutting
money, in a bipartisan way, from its jurisdiction to reduce the
size and scope of the federal government,” Lucas said in a
statement released after yesterday’s vote.  Senate Debate  The Senate will begin debate on its $955 billion measure on
May 20, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
said yesterday. The House may vote on its plan as soon as next
month, giving the parties time to negotiate a bill before
current law expires on Sept. 30, said Representative  Collin Peterson  of  Minnesota , the House committee’s top Democrat.  Lawmakers are seeking to pass a new law after failing to
renew farm policy last year. The Senate passed legislation that
included the first major reductions in farm aid since 1996. The
measure died in the House, where Republican leaders wanted
deeper cuts to food stamps. The current law, passed in 2008, was
extended until September.  Funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program,
also known as food stamps, has again become the debate’s most
divisive and emotional issue. The committee defeated a bid by
Representative Jim McGovern, a Massachusetts Democrat, to
restore money cut from food stamps. The vote was 17-27.  Poverty, Unemployment  The reductions “will make hunger worse in America, not any
better,” McGovern said during a debate in which members of both
parties quoted biblical verses in arguing over the role of
government in assisting the needy with food. “We shouldn’t be
going down this path.”  Food-stamp enrollments are outstripping the U.S. poverty
rate and  unemployment (USURTOT) , said Representative Reid Ribble, a
Wisconsin Republican. “This issue doesn’t divide by dollars, it
divides by ideas of how best to fight poverty,” he said. “SNAP
dollars have gone up while unemployment has gone down.”  A record  47.8 million  people got food stamps in December.
Enrollment in February, the most recent month available, slid to
47.6 million and the program paid $6.3 billion.  Unemployment, which soared to 10 percent in October 2009
during the financial crisis, reached a four-year low of 7.5
percent in April, according to  government statistics . About 2
million people would be dropped from food-stamps rolls under the
House plan, according to a congressional estimate.  Dairy Plan  The House committee yesterday also rejected an attempt to
limit a revamp of dairy policies that would re-introduce supply
management into the boom-and-bust milk market.  The Dairy Security Act, part of the committee’s plan, would
subsidize insurance policies for producers to ease tight profit
margins created by low milk prices and high feed costs. In
return, farmers would agree to cut milk production once prices
fall below a set limit.  A producer in the program who ignored the agreement would
receive less in government payments. Money saved would then be
used to buy dairy products for distribution to the poor --
another way to lower inventories.  Small dairy producers say subsidies are needed to stabilize
their boom-and-bust business. Groups representing companies
including  Dean Foods Co. (DF)  say the market distortions would harm
trade and consumers.  Price Swings  Representative Robert Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican and
former chairman of the committee, offered an amendment stripping
the supply-management provisions from the bill. The proposed
dairy language would “penalize both consumers and dairy
producers who want to expand their operations,” Goodlatte said.  Peterson, who crafted the program, said his proposal would
deal with price swings.  “We’ve got to understand that we have to deal with milk,
and if we have an oversupply, what do we do?” he asked.
“Volatility is in the worst interest of the dairy producer.”  The amendment failed 20-26.  One of the few amendments to successfully be adopted was
offered by Representative Kurt Schrader, an Oregon Democrat, to
establish a program in which organic-foods producers could
create an industry-funded USDA research and promotion program,
which passed by a 29-17 vote.  Both Senate and House committees plan to end a program that
pays growers of corn,  rice  and other major crops regardless of
market prices, and use some of the savings to insure revenues in
less-profitable years.  Crop Insurance  The House and Senate proposals would each also expand crop
insurance and introduce some form of “shallow loss” protection
for farmers with revenue reductions not covered by indemnities.
Spending on government-subsidized crop insurance sold by  Wells
Fargo & Co .,  Ace Ltd. (ACE)  and others has soared to records,
galvanizing groups fighting for less farm aid.  Indemnities for last year’s Corn Belt drought, the worst
since the 1930s, are at  $17.1 billion  so far, according to the
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  