-- Foreign Demand for U.S. Financial Assets Declined in March
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-05-15T15:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/foreign-demand-for-u-s-financial-assets-declined-in-march.html
International demand for U.S. stocks,
bonds and other financial assets weakened for a second straight
month in March as a stronger economic outlook emboldened
investors to take other risks.  Net selling of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$13.5 billion during the month, the biggest net sales total
since May 2009 after selling of $13.3 billion in February, the
Treasury Department said today in Washington. The median
estimate of five economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg was for net
buying of $35 billion of long-term assets.  “The data does not suggest a pronounced global investor
rush into safety assets,” Gennadiy Goldberg, U.S. strategist at
TD Securities Inc. in  New York . “The weaker headline reading is
the result of a greater number of foreign securities sold to
U.S. investors, likely a consequence of decreasing global
uncertainty thus far in the year.”  The report showed investors were willing to seek higher-yielding assets amid signs of a stronger  U.S. economy .  Consumer
spending  climbed in February by the most in five months and
confidence unexpectedly improved in March, showing job-market
gains are helping Americans overcome tax increases and concern
about  federal budget  cuts.  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners bought a net $2.1 billion in March, down from net
purchases of $61.9 billion the previous month.  China remained the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in March after its holdings fell $1.4 billion to $1.25 trillion,
according to the Treasury. Japan, the second-largest holder,
maintained its holdings at $1.11 trillion.  Foreigners bought a net $5.3 billion of Treasuries in
March, according to today’s report, up from $2.6 billion the
month before.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  