-- Former Wall Street Trader Fulop Ousts Jersey City’s Mayor
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-05-15T16:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/former-wall-street-trader-fulop-ousts-jersey-city-s-mayor.html
Jersey City  Councilman Steven Fulop,
who quit Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s trading desk to run for
mayor, ousted incumbent Jerramiah Healy, whose administration
was caught up in an FBI investigation and who was once
photographed on his porch drunk, unconscious and naked.  Fulop, 36, who had financial backing from  Wall Street , won
53 percent of the vote yesterday, according to  results  on the
Hudson County clerk’s website. Healy, 62, who had endorsements
from President  Barack Obama  and  Newark  Mayor  Cory Booker , had 38
percent, with 96 percent of the votes counted. Both candidates
are registered Democrats, though the race was nonpartisan.  The candidates battled for control of a city savvy enough
to lure  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , UBS AG and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to
open offices, earning it the nickname “Wall Street West.”
Healy, though, was unable to shake Jersey City’s reputation for
a century of crooked politics. Fulop won after telling voters it
was time for Healy to quit embarrassing  New Jersey ’s second-most-populous city.  “The traditional party organization in Hudson County that
was strongly backing Mayor Healy was not as strong as some
people like to think,” said Ben Dworkin, director of the
Rebovich Institute for New Jersey Politics at  Rider University 
in Lawrenceville. “People will look to the divide in terms of
old Jersey City and new Jersey City.”  Never Charged  In 2009, Jersey City was rocked by “Operation Bid Rig,”
which netted 44 public officials and rabbis in the largest
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation corruption sting in state
history. The case led to prison sentences for Healy’s deputy
mayor, Leona Baldini, who had been his campaign treasurer, and
several other aides and allies.  Healy, recorded on a hidden FBI camera meeting with an
undercover informant, was never charged. Fulop used the footage
in a campaign advertisement with a tagline, “Mayor Healy got
away with it.” Healy’s campaign issued a cease-and-desist
letter that called the material defamatory.  Healy, a former prosecutor, municipal judge and councilman,
became mayor after winning a November 2004 special election to
succeed Glenn Cunningham, who died of a heart attack. He was re-elected in June 2005 and again in 2009.  If Fulop had received less than 50 percent of the vote, he
would have had to face Healy in a June 11 runoff. Yesterday’s
election, which drew 28 percent of registered voters, marked “a
generational shift,” Dworkin said last night.  Record Turnout  A total of 38,583 voters cast ballots for mayor, a record
for an election in which Healy was up for a full term, according
to data from the Jersey City clerk’s office. The figure was 18
percent higher than the 2009 total, and 35 percent higher than
in 2005. Fulop had said low turnout would keep Healy in office.  In 2004, while Healy was still a councilman, a photo of him
sleeping nude on his front porch surfaced on the Internet. The
 New York  Times quoted Healy saying in 2006 that he didn’t
remember how he got on his porch after drinking six to eight
beers at a local bar.  In an interview this year with the Star-Ledger of Newark,
Healy was quoted as saying that “three Hispanic girls” had
lured him outside, pulled off the towel wrapped around him and
did “filthy” things to him. He chased them off, then sat on
the porch, and was then photographed by a political enemy,
according to the newspaper’s account.  Bar Brawl  In 2006, the mayor was arrested and convicted of a
disorderly person offense after scuffling with police outside a
Bradley Beach bar owned by his sister. Four years later, the
state  Supreme Court ’s disciplinary review board admonished him
for the incident, and the Jersey Journal of Jersey City called
for his resignation.  Fulop worked at Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., leaving after the 2001 World Trade Center attacks to join
the U.S. Marine Corps and serve in  Iraq . He was elected to the
City Council in 2005 at age 27, and represents a ward that
includes downtown. He was endorsed for mayor by Advance
Publications Inc.’s Jersey Journal and Star-Ledger.  “With your help, we won tonight, and I know that this is a
tremendous responsibility to bring every community in this great
city forward,” Fulop told supporters last night. “It is
something I will work tirelessly on to make you proud.”  Wall Street  Fulop’s backers included Appaloosa Management co-founder
 David Tepper  and Pennant Capital Management founder Alan Fournier. He was the subject of supportive mailings from Better
Education for New Jersey Kids, a New Brunswick-based political
action committee that was started in 2011 by Tepper and Fournier
to support the creation of  charter schools , privately run with
public funding.  Healy had tried to get a Superior Court judge in Hudson
County to force the group to stop producing campaign ads. In a
May 10 lawsuit, Healy accused it of engaging in “explicit
advocacy of Fulop’s candidacy” and skirting campaign-finance
laws. Judge Peter Bariso dismissed the suit.  As of May 2, Fulop had raised $955,964 to Healy’s $804,028,
according to state campaign-finance data.  Jersey City, with 250,000 residents, is New Jersey’s most
diverse municipality, according to U.S. Census Bureau data
analyzed by Bloomberg. About 75 languages are spoken in the
homes of the children who attend its public schools.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  