-- France Starts Public Debate on Underground Nuclear Waste Site
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-05-15T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/france-starts-public-debate-on-underground-nuclear-waste-site.html
France  has started a public inquiry
into a plan to build a nuclear waste repository to be buried
half a kilometer under the northeastern countryside.  A series of public meetings will be held through Oct. 15,
according to the inquiry’s  website , and the government and
regulators will consider the outcome when they decide whether to
approve the site.  If approved, the  Cigeo  project will store highly
radioactive waste from  Electricite de France SA ’s 58 reactors in
a site near Bure that straddles the Meuse and Haute-Marne
regions. Andra, the waste-management agency spearheading the
plan, wants to start construction in 2019 and begin operations
in 2025.  The facility will cost 13.5 billion euros ($17.4 billion)
to 16.5 billion euros for construction and operation over 100
years, according to Andra’s  website .  The inquiry is “a masquerade and pure exercise in public
relations,” anti-nuclear group Sortir du Nucleaire said
yesterday in a statement. No one can guarantee the safety of the
site for such a long period, it said.  EDF now stores waste at reactor sites and at above-ground
facilities at La Hague in northern France. Sweden and  Finland 
are also developing deep repositories after the European Union
established nuclear waste disposal standards in 2011.  Under French law, nuclear operators including EDF and  Areva
SA (AREVA)  have to build portfolios or amass funds to pay for the
decommissioning of reactors and radioactive waste storage.  A parliamentary report published last year concluded
operators may not be setting aside enough money. Cost estimates
for the Cigeo site vary from 14.4 billion euros to 35 billion
euros, that report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  