-- France Slips Into Recession, Adding Pressure on Hollande
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-05-15T15:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/french-economy-slips-into-recession-adding-pressure-on-hollande.html
The French economy fell back into
recession, increasing pressure on President  Francois Hollande  to
adopt policies to revive growth.  Gross domestic product  shrank 0.2 percent in the three
months through March, following a revised 0.2 percent
contraction in the previous quarter, national statistics office
Insee said today. Economists expected a 0.1 percent drop, the
median of 25 forecasts gathered by  Bloomberg News  showed.  Celebrating his first anniversary in office today, Hollande
is struggling to reduce the number of  jobseekers  from a record
3.22 million and lift his popularity rating from a record low.
With the wider euro-area economy set to shrink for a second year
in 2013, Hollande has been pushing to slow the pace of deficit
cuts in the 17-nation bloc in favor of more pro-growth policies.  “The most important thing now is to create growth and
employment,” Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said this week
in Brussels. “We must absolutely fight to have stronger growth
in 2014 and to have the start of that growth in 2013.”  Across the euro area, GDP shrank 0.2 percent in the
quarter, the European Union’s statistical office said today.
 Germany , the region’s largest economy, posted an expansion of
0.1 percent, less than economists expected.  Euro-area GDP will drop 0.4 percent this year after a 0.6
percent decline in 2012, according to European Commission
forecasts released earlier this month.  More Time  The commission said May 3 that it would give  France  another
two years to reduce its deficit to less than 3 percent of GDP,
though it said the nation’s lack of competitiveness is as much a
part of the problem as the lack of growth in the region.  Hollande needs to press ahead with promises to revamp the
nation’s labor law and pension system, the Commission said.  “France badly needs to unblock its growth potential and
create jobs,” European Economic Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
told reporters in Brussels on May 3. The country needs to “put
a renewed and strong emphasis on structural reforms in the labor
market, in the pension systems, by opening up closed professions
and services markets.”  Hollande traveled to Brussels today to meet with all
European commissioners, the first such gathering for a French
president since 1997.  In the first quarter, investment by non-financial companies
fell 0.8 percent in France, while trade with other countries
contributed a 0.2 percent drag on the economy.  Consumer spending 
fell 0.1 percent, Insee said today.  Insee revised its estimate of growth in the first two
quarters of 2012, saying the French GDP was virtually unchanged
in the first three months of last year before declining 0.2
percent in the second period. Previously it had reported
declines of 0.1 percent in each of the two quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  