-- French Wheat Exports Prop Up March Farm Trade as Wine Sales Fall
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-15T11:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/french-wheat-exports-prop-up-march-farm-trade-as-wine-sales-fall.html
France ’s exports of grains including
wheat rose in March, helping to reduce the effect of lower
shipments of processed agricultural products from wine to candy.  Overall farm and food exports slipped 0.6 percent to 5.25
billion euros ($6.8 billion) from 5.28 billion euros in March
2012, with higher cereal and vegetable sales limiting the
decline, the Agriculture Ministry wrote in an online  report 
today. That masked a 6.7 percent slump in deliveries of so-called transformed farm products.  France is the world’s fifth-biggest exporter of farm and
food products, which jointly are the second-largest contributor
to its trade balance after the transportation industry, Finance
Ministry  figures  show. The country is a net importer in most
other industries, with a trade deficit of 15.9 billion euros in
the first quarter.  “The trade surplus with both third countries as well as
the European Union grows thanks to grain sales, while the
exports of transformed products diminish for both
destinations,” the Agriculture Ministry wrote.  France is the 27-nation EU’s largest grain exporter and its
third-biggest shipper of wine after Italy and Spain.  Deliveries of cereals excluding rice jumped to 963 million
euros in March from 745 million euros a year earlier, according
to the ministry. Vegetable sales increased to 250 million euros
from 213 million euros.  Exports of soft wheat rose by 115 million euros on the year
in March, mostly because of a 24 percent surge in prices,
according to the ministry. Deliveries climbed 7.6 percent by
volume on shipments to Morocco, Yemen and Tunisia, it wrote.  Beverage sales slipped to 1.05 billion euros from 1.12
billion euros, with exports of wine and champagne dropping by 37
million euros on reduced buying from the U.K. and  Japan ,
according to the report.  France’s exports of processed fish products fell to 53
million euros from 96 million euros, while sales of sugar,
candy, chocolates, vegetable oils and dairy also declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  