-- Gagfah Apartment-Rent Profit Falls After Homes Were Sold
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-05-15T10:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/gagfah-apartment-rent-profit-falls-after-company-divested-homes.html
Gagfah SA (GFJ) , the second-biggest owner
of German homes, said profit from its main business of renting
apartments declined 2.5 percent in the first quarter after it
sold units to help pay debt.  Profit from the leasing of investment properties fell to
91.5 million euros ($118 million) from 93.8 million euros a year
earlier, the Luxembourg-based company said in a statement today.  Gagfah, controlled by  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , in the
past 12 months has been focused on refinancing 3.4 billion euros
of debt that comes due this year. The company has been selling
apartments to help raise cash and said today it’s close to
repaying its final large loan of about 2 billion euros.  Gagfah owned about 144,000 apartments at the end of the
first quarter compared with about 148,000 a year earlier.  Funds from operations excluding sales, a measure of a
property company’s ability to generate cash, fell 0.8 percent to
23.6 million euros in the first quarter.  Deutsche Annington Immobilien AG, which owns about 186,000
apartments, is  Germany ’s largest residential landlord.  New CEO  Thomas Zinnoecker, who took over as Gagfah’s chief
executive officer last month, said on a conference call with
analysts that he’s reviewing Gagfah’s homes to identify those
that may require more investment or may need to be sold.  “If you have a portfolio in more than 300 locations,
there’s room for optimization,” he said.  The company plans to spend more on maintaining and
modernizing apartments to increase their value, he said. Gagfah
said it will spend as much as 13 euros a square meter in 2013,
compared with 11 euros in 2012. That amount is likely to grow in
the coming years, he said.  “We see a lot of improvement potential from investing more
money in the right places,” Zinnoecker said.  Gagfah may issue  new shares  to finance the additional
spending and to reduce its debt, he said. Zinnoecker said he
hasn’t decided whether Gagfah should resume dividend payments.
The payments stopped in 2011, according to  data compiled by
Bloomberg .  “Dividends are something we have in our focus,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  