-- Jets’ Garrard Tells NFL.com He’s Quitting Because of Knee Injury
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-16T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/garrard-won-t-play-for-jets-because-of-knee-injury-nfl-com-says.html
David Garrard told NFL.com that a
knee injury is forcing him to “call it quits” two months after
signing with the  New York  Jets, the latest twist in the team’s
uncertain quarterback situation.  “My knee is not holding up,” Garrard, 35, said yesterday
in a text message, according to  NFL.com  columnist Adam Schein.
“Continuing to swell after practices. Limiting what I can do.”  The Jets signed Garrard, who didn’t play in the  National
Football League  the past two seasons, in March to add
competition at quarterback after starter  Mark Sanchez  was
briefly benched late last season.  Jets new General Manager John Idzik has said the team’s
starting quarterback job is up for grabs and last month took
West Virginia University quarterback Geno Smith in the second
round of the draft. In addition to Sanchez,  Greg McElroy  and
Matt Simms are the other quarterbacks on the roster.  The Jets last month released  Tim Tebow , ending a failed
experiment with the fan-favorite quarterback who threw only
eight passes during his lone season with the team and was passed
over in favor of McElroy when Sanchez was benched.  The Jets didn’t respond to messages seeking comment on
Garrard’s status with the team.  Garrard spent his first nine NFL seasons with the
 Jacksonville Jaguars , completing 62 percent of his passes for 89
touchdowns and 54 interceptions.  Garrard was cut by the Jaguars five days before the start
of the 2011 season to save $9 million. He ended up sitting out
that season after undergoing back surgery and then signed with
the  Miami Dolphins  before the 2012 campaign. Garrard was
released by Miami after having surgery on his left knee.  Garrard’s knee injury further muddles the Jets’ quarterback
situation and leaves Sanchez, who has committed 26 turnovers
each of the past two seasons, as the only quarterback on the
roster with significant experience. Over four NFL seasons, the
former first-round pick has completed 55 percent of his passes
with 68 touchdowns and 69 interceptions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  