-- German Stocks Little Changed Near Record; ThyssenKrupp Rallies
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-05-15T07:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/german-stocks-little-changed-near-record-thyssenkrupp-rallies.html
German stocks  were little changed,
after the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  rose to its sixth straight record
high, as a report showed the nation’s economy expanded less in
the first quarter than economists predicted.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  jumped to a six-week high as the steelmaker
reported adjusted earnings that beat analysts’ predictions.
Commerzbank AG rallied 12 percent on the first day of its 2.5
billion-euro ($3.2 billion) capital increase, when shareholders
can exercise subscription rights for new stock. TUI AG gained
2.9 percent after saying it targets 1 billion euros in operating
profit by 2015 and plans to restore its dividend.  The DAX Index added less than 0.1 percent to 8,340.84 at
9:48 a.m. in  Frankfurt , after posting its longest winning streak
in almost 14 months. The benchmark rallied for three successive
weeks as companies reported better-than-forecast results and
optimism increased that central banks will maintain economic
stimulus. The HDAX Index fell less than 0.1 percent today.  “Until up to one month ago, everyone was expecting growth
to pick up in the second quarter or during the course of the
year -- that may be true in the U.S., but it’s absolutely not
true in Europe,” Nicola Marinelli, who helps oversee $180
million at Glendevon King Ltd in London, told Francine Lacqua on
Bloomberg Television. “Probably the number for  Germany , if you
adjust it for trading days, is negative. The weakness in Germany
can be good for the ECB as it gives them more leeway to more
monetary stimulus.”  The volume of shares changing hands on DAX-listed companies
was 85 percent greater than the average of the past 30 days,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  German Growth  The German economy, Europe’s largest,  expanded less  in the
first quarter than economists had predicted. Gross domestic
product rose 0.1 percent from the fourth quarter, when it fell a
downwardly revised 0.7 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said. Economists had forecast a 0.3 percent gain,
according to the median of 41 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The 17-nation euro area economy contracted 0.1 percent in
the first quarter, after a 0.6 percent decline in the final
quarter of 2012, economists  predicted  before the European
Union’s statistics office releases the initial figures at 11
a.m. in Luxembourg. That would be the sixth straight quarterly
contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in  London  at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  