-- German Economy Barely Expands While France Contracts
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-05-15T08:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/german-economy-expanded-less-than-forecast-in-1q.html
The German economy expanded less than
forecast in the first quarter and  France  slipped into recession,
increasing pressure on the  European Central Bank  to do more to
stimulate growth.  German  gross domestic product  rose 0.1 percent from the
fourth quarter, when it fell a downwardly revised 0.7 percent,
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists forecast a 0.3 percent gain, according to the median
of 41 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . The French economy
contracted 0.2 percent in the three months through March after
shrinking the same amount in the final quarter of last year.  The weaker-than-forecast GDP results in  Europe ’s two
biggest economies highlight the risks to the outlook and
indicate that the 17-nation euro region is almost certainly
still stuck in recession. The ECB cut its  benchmark interest
rate  to a record low of 0.5 percent this month and President
 Mario Draghi  said the bank is ready to act again if needed.  “The worse-than-anticipated start to the year will clearly
worry policy makers at the ECB,” said  Chris Williamson , chief
economist at Markit in  London . “Today’s data will add to calls
that more action is required beyond what many see as a token
gesture of a rate cut.”  The euro dropped more than a quarter of a cent after the
German report and traded at $1.2908 at 10:29 a.m. in Frankfurt.
The benchmark  DAX share index  rose to 8344.19, while the CAC 40
dropped to 3964.24. The yield on German 10-year bonds was little
changed at 1.37 percent.  ‘Almost Exclusively’  Germany ’s first-quarter growth was driven “almost
exclusively” by household spending, the statistics office said.
Investment declined and net trade barely contributed, it said. A
detailed breakdown is due on May 24. From a year earlier, the
economy shrank 0.2 percent when adjusted for working days.  “The fact that investment, exports and imports declined
isn’t nice and signals weak domestic demand,” said  Holger Sandte , chief European analyst at  Nordea Markets  in Copenhagen.
“The cold winter played a role and there will be something of a
rebound in the second quarter but with weaker sentiment, some
people might have to think about how realistic current full-year
growth forecasts are.”  Commerzbank AG today lowered its German 2013 growth
forecast to 0.2 percent from 0.5 percent.  Long Winter  Germany’s recovery may have been delayed by an unusually
long winter, which damped construction and business confidence,
the Bundesbank has said. It predicted in December that the
economy will grow 0.4 percent this year and 1.9 percent in 2014,
with inflation averaging 1.5 percent and 1.6 percent
respectively.  The Frankfurt-based ECB in March projected the euro economy
will contract 0.5 percent this year before expanding 1 percent
in 2014. It forecast an inflation rate of just 1.3 percent next
year, well below its 2 percent target.  “We will be looking at all the data that arrives from the
euro-area economy in the coming weeks and if necessary, we are
ready to act again,” Draghi said in a speech in  Rome  on May 6.
“ Monetary policy  will remain accommodative.”  Euro-region GDP probably fell 0.1 percent in the first
quarter after a 0.6 percent decline in the final quarter of 2012,
according to another  Bloomberg survey . That report is due from
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg at 11 a.m.
today.  Italy’s economy shrank 0.5 percent in the first quarter,
more than economists anticipated. The Dutch economy contracted
0.1 percent while Austria’s stagnated.  Euro-Area Drag  “The euro area is a drag on the economy and certainly a
handicap for German companies,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an
economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “The overall outlook still
speaks for a recovery, but for the recovery to gain momentum,
it’s important for investment to pick up again. That’s what
drives  job creation .”  In France, President  Francois Hollande  is struggling to
reduce the number of jobseekers from a record 3.22 million and
lift his popularity rating from a record low.  With the sovereign debt crisis set to cause a second
consecutive year of economic contraction in the euro region,
Hollande has been pushing to slow the pace of deficit reduction
in the currency bloc in favor of more pro-growth policies.  German business confidence fell for a second month in April
and investor confidence rose less than economists forecast in
May. The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said yesterday that its index of investor and analyst
expectations, which aims to predict economic developments six
months in advance, edged up to 36.4 from 36.3. Economists
forecast a gain to 40.  German Stocks  At the same time, Germany’s DAX climbed to a record high
this month as companies reported better-than-forecast results.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s second-biggest chipmaker,
gained the most in almost four years on May 2 after projecting
revenue for this quarter that would top analysts’ estimates.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-largest maker of
cement, said on May 8 that first-quarter earnings rose 3.3
percent as North American growth and job cuts helped offset
harsh winter conditions that impeded building in Europe.  “Germany is one of the few euro countries that grew at the
beginning of the year,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at
UniCredit Group in Munich. “Robust demand from the U.S. and
 Asia  bode well for exports and the domestic economy continues to
be solid, with private consumption a stable growth pillar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  