-- Getting Points for TV Part of Mobile-App Loyalty Programs
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-05-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/getting-points-for-tv-part-of-mobile-app-loyalty-programs.html
Loyalty programs are moving out of
wallets and into smartphones as a new generation of applications
seeks to reward consumers for shopping, watching television or
snapping photos.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  have signed up with
Shopkick Inc., which created a mobile app that gives points to
shoppers for entering stores or buying products.  Viggle Inc. (VGGL) ’s
software offers points for “check-ins” while watching TV
shows, while  Kapture Life Inc.  members can earn rewards by
shooting and sharing pictures of food or products.  With smartphone-based loyalty apps, marketers are able to
track consumer behavior while finding more ways to entice
shoppers to share information. Mobile location-based promotions
are projected in 2016 to capture 64 percent of $622.4 million in
local digital-marketing spending, from 33 percent of $174.5
million last year, according to Borrell Associates Inc.  “Everything grows as mobile grows,” said Kip Cassino,
director of research at Borrell Associates in Williamsburg,
Virginia. “By 2016, the tools will be perfected and it’ll take
off.”  Unlike typical card-based loyalty programs, many mobile-reward apps aren’t tied to a single merchant or company, and
they often provide cash or gifts instead of in-store discounts.  Comparison Shopping  With more than five million users,  Palo Alto , California-based Shopkick has also signed up  American Eagle Outfitters
Inc. (AEO) ,  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)   For retailers, mobile-reward programs offer a way to combat
so-called showrooming, which happens when consumers check out
merchandise in stores then search for better prices at online
retailers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  or  EBay Inc. (EBAY)   By 2016, smartphones will  influence  as much as 21 percent,
or $752 billion, of all U.S. retail-purchasing decisions in
stores, according to Deloitte LLP, up from 5.1 percent, or $159
billion, of all U.S. store sales last year, Deloitte said.  “The only way to fight showrooming is to fight fire with
fire,” said  Michael Boland , an analyst at researcher BIA/Kelsey
in Chantilly, Virginia.  The technology behind mobile-loyalty apps enhances their
effectiveness, Boland said. Shopkick’s software can track when
buyers enter stores. Using satellite positioning, smartphones
can also detect, for other loyalty applications, consumers’
proximity to a particular store and alert them to sales or
special promotions.  TV Rewards  Viggle analyzes sounds to identify what TV shows members
are watching, so that they can “check in” to a program and
collect points. Viggle, based in  New York , began running
commercials in March and has gained more than two million
registered users.  Frank Goraj, a 29-year-old Lexington,  South Carolina ,
resident, has won a trip to the  Super Bowl  and earned enough
Viggle award points for a $175 Best Buy gift card that he plans
to use for holiday shopping.  “If we run a trailer for a show, and push them a reminder,
46 percent will watch the show,” Greg Consiglio, Viggle’s
president, said in an interview.  TV network Fox Broadcasting Co. is using Viggle’s app to
attract viewers to new shows.  “The goal is to try to keep people watching Fox,” Hardie
Tankersley, a vice president at Fox, said in an interview. “We
know that the majority of people watching television have some
sort of a mobile device in front of them. If we can convert
these users into our viewers, that’s what drives our business.”  User Engagement  Consumers spent more time on average in Shopkick’s app than
they did in similar programs by Amazon, EBay and daily deals
provider  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , according a June 2012 study by Nielsen
Holdings NV, which  ranked  the top 10 shopping apps by unique
users.  “We are producing the same behavioral change as a 30 to 50
percent discount would,” Cyriac Roeding, Shopkick’s chief
executive officer, said in an interview. Consumers typically
earn 30 cents to 80 cents for visiting a store, and Shopkick
earns a small commission, he said.  Shopkick users buy twice as much at American Eagle
Outfitters as other shoppers, according to Jim Thompson, a vice
president at the Pittsburgh-based clothing retailer.  “American Eagle is looking to move away from pure
promotions and couponing, to user engagement,” Thompson said.  Kapture users who take photos of products and share them
with friends via social networks such as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  or
Twitter Inc. can earn products at stores. The company is looking
to expand beyond New York.  Redeeming Points  Competitors are beginning to take notice. Groupon, which
offers daily discounts at local shops, businesses and
restaurants, said its subscription model remains an effective
way to generate sales.  “Research shows that consumers spend beyond the value of
the Groupon and often come back and pay full price,” Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, wrote in an e-mail. “Most
mobile-reward programs haven’t yet proven to be as consistent or
effective.”  While Viggle, Shopkick and Kapture are competing with
Groupon and others for businesses’ marketing dollars, they’re
also challenging traditional loyalty programs.  At least a third of $48 billion in consumer-loyalty rewards
earned every year in the U.S. are  never redeemed , Colloquy, a
Cincinnati-based marketing researcher, said in 2011.  In 2012, only 48 percent of U.S. adults said loyalty
membership saved them a lot of money, according to Forrester
Research Inc. Just 22 percent of consumers thought such programs
influenced how much they spent.  “It’s a pretty low number,”  Emily Collins , an analyst at
Forrester, said in an interview. While buyers enrolled in
loyalty programs have come to anticipate deep discounts,
retailers are wary of expanding such initiatives because of
their impact on profits and questions about how well they work,
she said.  “What brands are realizing is, discounts aren’t effective
in creating long-term loyalty,” Collins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at   okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  