-- Glencore, Shell Fail to Buy Forties Crude; Gunvor Seeks Urals
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-05-15T17:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/glencore-shell-fail-to-buy-forties-crude-gunvor-seeks-urals.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc,  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Mercuria Energy Trading SA failed to buy North Sea
Forties crude at a higher price. Gunvor Group Ltd. didn’t manage
to find sellers for Russian Urals crude at a smaller discount to
Dated Brent.  Shell, BP Plc and Statoil ASA, three of Europe’s biggest
oil explorers, are among the companies being questioned by
European antitrust regulators about potential price manipulation
in oil and biofuels markets.  The companies and Platts, a unit of McGraw Hill Financial
Inc., said they’re being investigated after the European
Commission conducted raids in three countries to ferret out
evidence of collusion.  North Sea  Three bids were made for Forties at 25 cents a barrel more
than Dated Brent, up from a premium of 15 cents for a deal
yesterday, according to a Bloomberg survey of traders and
brokers monitoring the Platts pricing window. The first bid was
from Shell for June 4 to June 7, the second from Mercuria for
June 8 to June 11 and last from Glencore for June 1 to June 3.  Mercuria also failed to buy Forties for May 25 to May 27 at
parity to Dated Brent, while Glencore was unable to buy the
grade for June 7 to June 10 at a premium of 15 cents, the survey
showed.  Mercuria didn’t manage to buy Ekofisk for June 2 to June 4
at $1.15 a barrel more than Dated Brent, and Vitol Group failed
to buy Oseberg for June 7 to June 9 at the same premium,
according to the survey.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days rose by 15 cents to a premium of 4 cents a barrel
to Dated Brent.  Brent for June settlement traded at $101.62 a barrel on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange at the close of the window, compared
with $102.78 yesterday. The July contract was at $101.32 at the
same time today, a discount of 30 cents to June.  Daily exports of the 12 main grades of North Sea crude for
loading in June will decline to the lowest in nine months,
according to loading programs obtained by Bloomberg News.  Exports of Brent, Forties, Oseberg, Ekofisk, Statfjord,
Gullfaks, Alvheim, Aasgard, DUC, Flotta, Grane and Troll blends
will total 52.85 million barrels, or about 1.76 million barrels
a day, the least since September. That compares with a revised
1.90 million this month.  No cargoes of Flotta crude will be exported in June,
according to a shipping schedule. This compares with one
shipment of 650,000 barrels for May.  Mediterranean/Urals  Gunvor failed to buy 100,000 metric tons of Urals for May
30 to June 3 loading at 80 cents a barrel less than Dated Brent
on a delivered basis to Rotterdam, the survey showed.  Urals in the Mediterranean was unchanged at a discount of
10 cents a barrel to Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed. In northwest Europe, the  discount  was stable at 85 cents
a barrel less than the benchmark.  Russia  will ship seven cargoes of Urals crude from Primorsk
and four consignments from Ust-Luga on the Baltic Sea from May
31 to June 6, according to a loading program obtained by
Bloomberg News. All shipments are 100,000 tons each.  Four lots of 80,000 tons each and one shipment of 140,000
tons of crude will load from Novorossiysk on the Black Sea from
May 31 to June 5, the plan showed.  OAO Surgutneftegas issued a tender to sell two 100,000-ton
cargoes a month for six months from Ust-Luga and Primorsk
starting July 1, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter who asked not to be identified because the information is
confidential. The tender closes tomorrow.  Azerbaijan will export crude via the Baku-Novorossiysk
pipeline to the Black Sea until the end of the year, Socar
President Rovnaq Abdullayev said today. Azerbaijan and Russia
will hold talks on new terms for use of pipeline that could lead
to continued exports next year.  It’s “no problem” if the two countries fail to reach an
agreement as the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan, or BTC, line is operating
at 70 percent of capacity, Abdullayev told reporters in Baku.  Iraqi crude oil shipments started on a test basis today
after repairs to pipeline leading to  Turkey ’s port of Ceyhan,
according to a statement by state-run North Oil Co. Exports are
due to rise to 350,000 barrels a day within hours, the company
said. Iraq halted crude exports via Turkey on May 13 after the
pipeline was bombed in a second attack in a week.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend fell by 10 cents to $3.17
a barrel more than Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  