-- Global Regulators Probing Oil-Price Reporting Compliance
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-05-15T15:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/global-markets-regulator-probing-oil-price-reporting-compliance.html
Global financial supervisors are
reviewing whether benchmark price-setters for the oil market are
meeting international standards amid a European Union probe into
potential manipulation of the $3.4 trillion-a-year crude market.  The International Organization of Securities Commissions is
checking if the industry has met standards designed to counter
the threat of market abuse, said the group’s Secretary General
 David Wright . Madrid-based Iosco drew up the rules last year,
saying they were needed to wipe out “ vulnerabilities ” that
leave the door open for market abuse.  “Iosco has worked intensively on looking at oil price
reporting,” Wright said in an interview in Brussels today. “We
are in a process of reviewing the implementation of these
principles, to what degree they’ve been implemented, and to what
degree they have been effective.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and Platts, the
oil-price data collector owned by McGraw Hill Financial Inc.,
said they’re being investigated after the European Commission
conducted raids in three countries. Price fixing in energy
markets has the potential to inflate consumer prices for
everything from gasoline to airline tickets to cosmetics.  Iosco in October asked companies involved in setting  price
levels  used in the oil market to adopt robust controls and to
protect the reliability of the benchmarks by introducing
conflict-of-interest policies, providing audit trails to
regulators and establishing a formal complaints process.  Possible Manipulation  The group said that it would work with other international
organizations to monitor how well the standards are applied in
the 18 months after they were published.  The U.K.’s  Office of Fair Trading  said that it had received
“no credible evidence” of possible manipulation of oil spot
and futures markets in response to an appeal it made for
information.  “The OFT is currently assisting the commission with its
inspections in the U.K.,” the OFT said in an e-mailed
statement.  Aside from its work on oil price reporting, Iosco has also
been asked by the Group of 20 nations to draw up general
principles for benchmark setting in response to the scandal
engulfing the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and other
rates.  “We think it’s important to have overriding principles on
this, covering the whole range of benchmarks and indices,”
Wright said.  “We’ve got to identify alternative benchmarks, with
appropriate governance and determine the optimal transition
paths,” he said. The Financial Stability Board, which brings
together G-20 finance ministry officials, regulators and central
bankers “is certainly going to be looking at this issue.”  Iosco is aiming to adopt the benchmark principles at a
meeting of its board on June 18-19, Wright said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  