-- Gold Premiums in India Jump as Central Bank Curbs May Cut Supply
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-05-15T11:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/gold-premiums-in-india-jump-as-central-bank-curbs-may-cut-supply.html
Gold premiums in  India , the world’s
biggest buyer, more than doubled on speculation that government
restrictions on bullion imports by banks to rein in a record
current-account deficit would reduce supplies.  The fees jewelers pay dealers for bars jumped as high as
$40 an ounce today from $17 to $18 yesterday, Bachhraj Bamalwa,
a director at the All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation,
said by phone from Kolkata. The  Reserve Bank  of India on May 13
limited imports by banks on a consignment basis to only those
required to meet the genuine needs of exporters.  The biggest slump in prices in three decades last month led
to shoppers crowding retail outlets across India to buy jewelry
and coins, deepening concern that the nation’s  current-account
deficit , the broadest measure of trade, would widen from an all-time high. The rush to buy bullion caused a shortage of physical
supplies, prompting importers to charge a hefty premium over
 London  prices, according to Bamalwa.  “Banks have refused to deliver any gold except ordered
previously, and bullion dealers are not accepting fresh
orders,” Bamalwa said. “Whether the bankers and dealers will
find another route to import and how they will go about it, it
is very unclear.” Any impact from the restrictions is expected
to be transitory and overall volumes will be determined by
underlying demand, UBS AG said in an e-mail on May 8.  ‘Cause of Concern’  The central bank issued a notice imposing the curbs after
the trade deficit widened in April to $17.8 billion from $10.31
billion in March as gold and silver imports more than doubled to
$7.5 billion from a year ago.  Gold imports have been a cause for concern and shipments
need to be cut to 700 tons a year, said Chakravarthy Rangarajan,
chairman of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s economic advisory
council. Demand may decline if prices remain stable, he said at
a conference in  New Delhi  today.  Bullion entered a  bear market  in London last month as
investors sold the metal in favor of riskier assets on
speculation that the global economy was recovering. That sparked
a buying frenzy from India to  China  and  Turkey . Still, the price
fell for a fifth day today and is off to its worst start to the
year since 1982, losing 16 percent.  Inflation-Linked Bonds  Gold for immediate delivery dropped 1.1 percent to
$1,409.37 an ounce at 6:55 p.m. in  Singapore  and is 27 percent
below the record $1,921.15 reached in 2011. Futures tumbled to
25,270 rupees per 10 grams on the  Multi Commodity Exchange of
India Ltd. (MCX)  on April 16, the cheapest since September 2011. The
June-delivery contract fell 0.9 percent to 26,479 rupees today.  India’s government will start selling inflation-linked
bonds from June 4 as it seeks to wean away investors from gold
as a bet against inflation, according to a finance ministry
statement. The bonds may act as a substitute for some demand,
Rangarajan said.  “Any of the measures taken by the government will not be
able to curb the demand for gold because Indians have been
buying gold for centuries, not in the last three or four
years,” Bamalwa said. “A century-old habit cannot die away in
a span of one to two years.”  About 60 percent to 70 percent of  gold demand  is from rural
areas, where most buyers are unaware of other avenues for saving
money and have limited access to bank accounts, he said. It may
be four to five years before inflation-linked bonds become a
popular investment tool, he said.  Smuggling Concerns  The government may refrain from raising  import duties  as it
could fuel smuggling and illegal trade, Bamalwa said. India
tripled the tax since January last year to 6 percent to cut
buying and Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram attributed
the current-account deficit to a “passion” for gold. The
deficit widened to $32.6 billion in the last quarter of 2012.  Imports may jump to 900 tons in 2013 from 860 tons last
year because of the price decline, Bamalwa said.  “Gold will be at least 10 percent more expensive than
international prices after the curbs on banks,” Pankaj Parekh,
vice chairman of the  Gems & Jewellery Export Promotion Council ,
said in an interview in New Delhi. “Even at higher prices, the
demand will not fall and people will continue to buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  