-- Goldman Says Commodities, Stocks Diverge as Stockpiles Increase
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-05-15T01:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/goldman-says-commodities-stocks-diverge-as-stockpiles-increase.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said that
returns from commodities have diverged from developed equity
markets amid expectations for rising metal stockpiles and energy
supplies, maintaining its neutral outlook on raw materials.  Commodity returns as gauged by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Enhanced  index  will be 1.6 percent over 12 months, analysts led
by  Jeffrey Currie  wrote in a report dated yesterday. That
compares with an earlier estimate for a 2.5 percent return,
according to an April 23 report. Goldman is most bearish on
agriculture, forecasting a 13 percent loss over 12 months.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced to a record
yesterday, bolstered by improving confidence in the world’s
largest economy as the U.S. Federal Reserve presses with
unprecedented stimulus. Commodities as tracked by the S&P GSCI
Enhanced index are 3.9 percent lower in 2013 as copper, corn and
gold declined. Money managers are the most bearish on
commodities in more than four years, with a net 29 percent
underweight, a Bank of America Corp. survey showed yesterday.  The divergence between commodities and developed stocks
“represents a significant departure from the past decade, where
correlations across assets were particularly high,” New York-based Currie wrote. “Given where we are in the current business
cycle with excess capacity and slow growth, the lack of
commodity returns and volatility should be expected.”  Industrial metals led by copper have a more bullish near-term outlook, while energy is estimated to deliver a return of 5
percent over a year, Goldman said. The selloff in gold had been
faster than expected, and further sales from exchange-traded
products may push prices lower, the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  