-- Google Maps Updated to Offer Faster, Personal Service
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-05-15T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/google-maps-updated-to-offer-faster-personal-service.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is overhauling its
mapping service with quicker navigation, more personalized
information and updated look and feel as the search provider
keeps up pressure on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The new service, which is still in preview mode, aims to
put more information on the maps, eliminating extra clicks
needed to dig up information on a business or seek the quickest
route to a destination, according to Jonah Jones, lead designer
at Google Maps.  A central feature for smartphones, mapping applications
have become a key tool for software and hardware makers seeking
to attract more users. Apple introduced its own maps app in
September to replace one that relied on Google’s data. Following
poor reviews of Apple’s product, Google rolled out its own
version that’s become popular with iPhone users.  “We’re making everything more integrated and easier to
find and easier to use,” Jones said before Google’s annual
developers conference in  San Francisco , where the company
unveiled the new service. “This is as big an upgrade as when
 Google Maps  first launched.”  As users interact with the new version, it provides more
context and recommendations, whether that’s a particular
restaurant or museum, he said. Google’s preview of Maps is
tailored for the desktop and not yet mobile, according to Jones.
Still, as the service develops, the new version should be
available across all platforms, Jones said.  The upgraded Google Maps, which also competes with a
Microsoft desktop version, will let users quickly zoom into a
location without running into fuzzy images, thanks to technology
that renders the map repeatedly, depending on the speed of the
browser. The updates will include integration with the Google
Earth application as well, giving detailed views of sites around
the world without having to leave Maps.  The  Mountain View , California-based company will continue
to deliver advertising via the  service , enabling coffee shops
and mechanics to highlight their services when users search on
the maps, Jones said.  “We really want to make the ad experience a positive
one,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  