-- Google’s Page Describes Speech Malady, Funds Research
-- B y   B r a d   S t o n e ,   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-15T21:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/google-s-page-describes-speech-malady-funds-research.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Page  disclosed a health condition that can result in
hoarse speech and labored breathing, though according to doctors
won’t impede him from running the Web-search provider.  Page wrote in a  blog post  yesterday that he’s been
diagnosed with left vocal cord paralysis, a condition that
restricts vocal-cord movement, and is also experiencing
impairment on the right side.  The malady can make it hard for the Google co-founder to
exercise at peak capacity and limit his participation in some
company events, such as quarterly conference calls. He also said
that his condition has improved and that he’s able to do all
that’s required of him at work and home.  “Usually people with vocal-cord paralysis can find a way
to accommodate the vocal injury and still do what they need to
do,” said Brian Eldon Petty, a speech-language pathologist at
 Emory Voice Center in Atlanta .  Google climbed 3.3 percent to close $915.89 in  New York , a
record high. The stock has advanced 29 percent this year,
compared with a 16 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Page, who also disclosed that he has a thyroid disorder
that may play a role in his condition, said he detected
impairment in his other vocal cord about a year ago.  ‘Fully Able’  “After some initial recovery, I’m fully able to do all I
need to do at home and at work, though my voice is softer than
before,” he wrote in the post.  The revelations come almost a year after Google Executive
Chairman  Eric Schmidt  told investors that Page would miss
several company events, including annual meetings for
shareholders and developers, because of his voice condition.  “Now that we’re fully aware of what has gone on here and
how it’s affected Larry Page, I can’t imagine it having that
much of an impact on his ability to successfully run the
company,” said  Scott Kessler , an analyst at S&P Capital IQ.
“He’s provided more than sufficient information and
transparency about these circumstances.”  Cancer, which can in rare instances develop in patients
with Page’s type of thyroid disorder, has been ruled out as a
cause for Page’s vocal condition, according to people at Google
familiar with his treatment over the past year, who asked not to
be named because the details aren’t public.  ‘Very Lucky’  Page said that his ability to exercise strenuously has been
“somewhat reduced” because vocal-cord nerve damage can affect
breathing. He uses a microphone even for small staff meetings,
people familiar with his condition have said.  “My friends still think I have way more stamina than them
when we go kite surfing,” he said. “And Sergey says I’m
probably a better CEO because I choose my words more carefully.
So surprisingly, overall I am feeling very lucky.”  Sergey Brin  co-founded  Mountain View , California-based
Google with Page in 1998.  A patient with vocal-cord paralysis might need regular
speech therapy, “particularly in a corporate arena where they
have a lot of communicative involvement on an average day,”
Petty said, speaking in general terms about the condition.  Beyond that, a surgeon might inject a substance such as
Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp.’s Restylane -- an injectable gel
that stimulates collagen production -- into the vocal cords to
improve speaking ability or perform an operation to reposition
the vocal cord, Petty said.  Hashimoto’s Disease  Doctors still don’t know the exact reason for the lasting
damage to his voice, Page said. He also has  Hashimoto’s disease ,
an autoimmune disorder that causes chronic inflammation in the
thyroid, a butterfly-shaped gland in the front of the neck below
the voice box that produces hormones involved in many bodily
functions, from breathing to metabolism.  “It is possible that has something to do with it, or that
it is just virus related, or some other unknown cause,” Page
said.  Hashimoto’s, which typically affects middle-aged women, can
be treated with hormone-replacement pills such as  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) ’  Synthroid . Very rarely, thyroid cancer may
develop, according to the U.S. National Institutes of Health.  Vocal-cord paralysis occurs when one or both of the elastic
bands of muscle tissue in the voice box fail to open or close
properly. Normally functioning vocal folds open when people
breathe, close when they swallow, and vibrate to enable speech.  Breathing, Swallowing  The condition can be caused by an injury to the head, neck
or chest, by lung or thyroid cancer, or by a viral infection. It
can alter the sound of a person’s voice, causing hoarseness, and
also lead to difficulties breathing and swallowing.  Paralysis  of both vocal cords is rare, according to the
NIH. It is also more dangerous, according to Priya Krishna,
incoming director of the Voice and Swallow Center at Loma Linda
University Medical Center in  California , who spoke in general
terms without referring to any specific patient.  “The danger there is the person’s airway is compromised,”
Krishna said. “It’s definitely going to interfere with your
energy level. You’re working harder to breathe, so you’re
expending your energy you use to walk or talk to breathe.”  When both vocal cords are paralyzed and positioned closely
together, a surgeon might perform a procedure known as a
 tracheotomy , making an incision in the front of the neck and
inserting a breathing tube to restore air flow.  Treatment Options  “If they are close together, the person will have trouble
breathing, and if they are really far  apart , the person will
have trouble speaking,” said  Michael Benninger , chairman of the
Head and Neck Institute at the  Cleveland Clinic  in  Ohio . “You
either have no voice or no airway.”  The risk of developing paralyzed vocal cords from two
different viruses is exceedingly rare, Benninger said. While
paralysis of a single vocal cord may stem from an infection and
often clears up, bilateral damage is most often the result of
surgery or cancer, he said. The cause is unknown in about 10
percent of cases.  Hashimoto’s disease can also damage the vocal folds,
Benninger said. Steroids are sometimes used to reduce
inflammation caused by the disease, he said.  Treatment options for vocal-cord paralysis may be tailored
to the lifestyle requirements of an individual patient.
Entertainers or public figures may prioritize protecting their
voice, while athletes might opt for alternatives that preserve
aerobic stamina, Benninger said.  Page’s Donation  “Ultimately, it’s the patient’s decision,” Benninger
said. “Broadcasters and singers can’t tolerate a breathy voice,
while truck drivers may not care if they are a little raspy or
hoarse.”  Page is making a donation to fund a “significant research
program” into vocal cord nerve function at the Voice Health
Institute, which will be led by Steven Zeitels, chief of the
Center for Laryngeal Surgery and Voice Rehabilitation at
 Massachusetts General Hospital  in  Boston . The donation will be
in excess of $20 million, a person familiar with the matter
said.  Zeitels has performed vocal-cord surgery on high-profile
 patients  including Grammy-winning pop singer Adele. Zeitels said
in a statement that his research team will use Page’s donation
to help develop new voice-restoration surgical procedures. He
declined to be interviewed about Page’s medical condition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brad Stone in  San Francisco  at 
 bstone12@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jim Aley at 
 jaley@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  