-- Granderson Returns to Yankees’ Lineup for 4-3 Win Over Mariners
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-15T04:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/granderson-returns-to-yankees-lineup-for-4-3-win-over-mariners.html
Curtis Granderson  played his first
game this season as the New York Yankees rallied from a 3-0
deficit at home to beat the Seattle Mariners 4-3.  Granderson, who hit a team-leading 43 home runs last
season, broke his forearm Feb. 24 when he was hit by Toronto
Blue Jays pitcher J.A. Happ during his first at-bat of Major
League Baseball spring training. Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  put
him in left field last night, a position he last played in 2007.
Granderson usually plays center field.  “It was like another opening day,” Granderson told
reporters. “Nerves coming into it, since it’s the first game of
the 2013 season, to be here in Yankee Stadium.”  Kyle Seager drove in  Michael Saunders  in the third inning
last night at Yankee Stadium to give the Mariners a 1-0 lead.
Raul Ibanez’s two-run homer in the sixth put Seattle ahead 3-0.  Granderson, who went 0-for-3, scored on Lyle Overbay’s
double in the sixth. Robinson Cano had a two-run double in the
seventh to tie the game at 3-3 and Overbay followed with a
sacrifice fly to drive in Cano.  CC Sabathia struck out 10 batters and gave up Seattle’s
three runs on 10 hits in 6 1/3 innings. Shawn Kelley (2-0) got
the win after relieving Sabathia and Mariano Rivera struck out
one in the ninth for his 16th save.  Charlie Furbush (0-2) took the loss after surrendering two
runs on one hit and three walks in one-third of an inning.  Shortstop Derek Jeter, first baseman Mark Teixeira, third
baseman  Alex Rodriguez , infielders Kevin Youkilis and  Eduardo Nunez , and catcher  Francisco Cervelli  remain on New York’s
disabled list.  The Yankees lead the American League East by two games over
the Baltimore Orioles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  