-- GSW Chief Kottmann Told to Resign by Dutch Pension Fund
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-05-15T09:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/gsw-chief-kottmann-told-to-quit-by-dutch-pension-fund-investor.html
GSW Immobilien AG (GIB)  Chief Executive
Officer Bernd Kottmann should quit because his appointment
wasn’t transparent, said PGGM NV, the Dutch pension fund that
owns a stake in the German residential landlord.  “PGGM deems it extremely important that the companies it
invests in should have and maintain a robust corporate
governance structure,” the pension fund said in a  statement 
today, adding that it also wants Chairman Eckart John von Freyend to resign. “PGGM finds the procedure adopted for the
recent appointment of a new CEO at GSW to be unacceptable.”  GSW,  Germany ’s fourth-largest residential landlord by
market value, said on March 18 that Kottmann would succeed
Thomas Zinnoecker as CEO on April 16. The appointment was made
about a week after GSW announced Zinnoecker’s departure. The
Berlin-based company plans to fight PGGM’s proposals, Freyend
said by telephone.  “Their demands are incomprehensible,” he said. “We
assume that PGGM is misinformed because they’re criticizing the
selection process, but the process was extensive.”  The hiring process began on Feb. 13, before Zinnoecker’s
departure was announced, and lasted for five weeks, Freyend
said. GSW considered at least 10 candidates before choosing
Kottmann, he said.  Confidence Vote  GSW yesterday published an invitation to its annual
shareholders meeting on June 18 in which it said that PGGM had
called for a vote of confidence in Kottmann and proposed
removing Freyend. PGGM has a stake of 2.98 percent in GSW,
according to an October 2012 statement.  The Dutch company said it had doubts about the supervisory
board’s independence in making its selection. Both Kottmann and
Freyend worked at  IVG Immobilien AG (IVG) , another German real estate
company, which “got into great difficulties in 2008 under their
management,” PGGM said.  Kottmann worked at IVG from 1997 to 2009, holding positions
including chief operating officer and chief financial officer,
according to GSW’s website. Freyend was IVG’s CEO from 1995 to
2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  IVG’s stock  has
dropped more than 90 percent in the past five years as the Bonn-based company struggles to pay debt used to make acquisitions.  “In the end, Kottmann was chosen because he was an
exceptional candidate. The decision was taken by the six members
of the supervisory board, not by me,” Freyend said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  