-- Li Signals Reluctance on Stimulus to Boost China Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-15T08:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/li-signals-reluctance-on-stimulus-to-boost-china-growth.html
Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  signaled
policy makers are reluctant to use stimulus to counter a
slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy because the risks
outweigh the benefits.  “To achieve this year’s targets, the room to rely on
stimulus policies or government direct investment is not big --
we must rely on market mechanisms,” Li said in a May 13 speech
broadcast to officials around the country, according to a
transcript published last night on the central government’s
 website . Relying on government-led investment for growth “is
not only difficult to sustain but also creates new problems and
risks,” he said.  Li’s most extensive economic comments in almost two months
indicate China may be unlikely to boost  government spending  or
follow central banks across Asia in cutting  interest rates  as he
tries to pare the state’s role in the economy. Bank of America
Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. this week lowered 2013  growth 
estimates to 7.6 percent after April industrial production and
investment trailed forecasts.  “The comment suggests that there won’t be any large-scale
stimulus, but that doesn’t mean the government won’t try at all
to boost growth,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist and
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “The growth in
the first first four months is too weak for the government to be
fully relaxed.”  Last year China cut  interest rates  twice and accelerated
investment approvals in response to slowing growth.  Government Role  Li made the remarks at a nationwide teleconference on
reducing’s the government’s role in economic development. The
government will cut unnecessary checks and approvals to boost
private investment, Li said. The country’s growth is under
“relatively large” downward pressure, he said.  The remarks don’t necessarily mean China will pay less
attention to expansion. The nation needs to “make the cake
bigger” to support growth and employment, President  Xi Jinping 
said yesterday during a visit to a jobs center in the northern
city of Tianjin, according to a message posted on the Weibo
microblog account of the official Xinhua News Agency.  The benchmark  Shanghai  Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.4 percent at
the close, the first gain in three days. Commodity producers
including Yunnan Aluminium Co. and coal producer Wintime Energy
Co. fell.  Li’s predecessor,  Wen Jiabao , rolled out a 4 trillion  yuan 
stimulus ($586 billion at the time) and an unprecedented bank
lending spree at the end of 2008 to shield the economy from the
global financial crisis, leaving an overhang of debt from loans.  Break Monopoly  Rather than stepping up  government aid , China needs to
break an “administrative monopoly” in finance,
telecommunications, logistics, health care and education to
boost growth of  service industries , Li said in the speech. “The
barriers to entry in these areas are high or very high, but the
potential of these areas is huge for China,” he said.  Economic  growth  of 7.7 percent in the first quarter trailed
the median forecast of 8 percent in a Bloomberg News survey and
fourth-quarter expansion of 7.9 percent. The government in March
set a 2013 goal of 7.5 percent, the same target as in 2012.  Li’s comments reinforce Nomura Holdings Inc.’s view that
any policy easing is unlikely, at least this quarter, and growth
may slow to 7.5 percent in the April-June period, Zhang Zhiwei,
chief China economist in  Hong Kong , said in a note today.  That outlook is shared by economists at Bank of America led
by Lu Ting, head of Greater China economics in Hong Kong. “We
don’t expect China’s new policy makers to introduce any
significant incremental stimulus measures,” they wrote in a
note yesterday. “Neither do we expect rate cuts.”  Asia Easing  In the Asia-Pacific region,  Australia ,  India , South Korea,
 Vietnam  and Sri Lanka have cut interest rates this month, while
the  Bank of Japan  last month unveiled a record monetary stimulus
program. Global easing has helped push the yuan to a 19-year
high against the dollar this month and spurred capital inflows
that companies are disguising as trade, inflating official
export figures, according to economists including Lu.  Li’s strategy for growth includes a call to unleash private
investment by simplifying bureaucratic procedures. “Private
investors have money but no place to invest; they want to enter
certain areas but they can’t find the way,” Li said. A company
has to spend six to 10 months seeking approvals at 27 government
departments to start a new  investment  project, he said.  The central government will delegate more power to local
governments in approving new projects, he said. “Not every
matter has to come to Beijing for approval,” he said.  Kowalczyk of Credit Agricole CIB said the streamlined
regulatory procedures on private investment may help  China ’s
growth over the long run.  “The odds of a government stimulus are very, very small,”
Andy Rothman, China macro strategist for CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets in Shanghai, said May 13 in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  