-- Liberals Post Upset Win in British Columbia Vote
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-05-15T13:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/liberals-projected-to-win-british-columbia-vote-ctv.html
British Columbia Premier Christy Clark’s  Liberal Party  defeated the opposition  New Democratic
Party  in a surprise election result that may bolster plans by
 Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  to ship more oil across the Canadian province.  The ruling Liberals won 50 of the province’s 85 electoral
areas, according to results posted on the Elections BC website.
The opposition NDP led by Adrian Dix won 33 seats, the  Green
Party  took one and there was one independent. Clark was defeated
in her own district in Vancouver. The Liberals took about 44
percent of the vote, versus the NDP’s 39 percent.  Dix, 49, was favored to win the election, and had vowed to
block plans by Enbridge and  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  to
expand oil shipments from  Alberta  through  Canada ’s western-most
province. Clark didn’t rule out increased oil shipments, while
imposing five conditions on the projects.  The Liberal victory is positive for natural resource
development in British Columbia and for efforts to expand trade
with  Asia , said Greg D’Avignon, chief executive officer of the
Business Council of British Columbia.  “One of the key messages coming out of this was Mr. Dix’s
decision to oppose the Kinder Morgan pipeline expansion without
having seen the details,” D’Avignon said. “What British
Columbians said was, ‘we want principled decision making that
creates investment certainty’ and that’s good news for the
business community.”  Pipeline Projects  The pipeline projects through British Columbia by Calgary-based Enbridge and  Kinder Morgan  of Houston would together move
more than 1 million barrels a day from Alberta, home to the
world’s third-largest oil reserves. Oil-sands output will
increase to 3.8 million barrels a day by 2022, double that of a
decade earlier, according to Alberta’s main energy regulator.  Kinder Morgan isn’t prepared to comment on the British
Columbia election until the result is officially confirmed by
Elections BC, Lisa Clement, a spokeswoman for the company’s
Trans Mountain expansion  project  in Vancouver, said in a phone
interview yesterday. Todd Nogier, a spokesman for Enbridge,
declined to comment before official results were in.  Dix’s NDP was expected to oust the ruling Liberals based on
the latest polls. Clark, 47, narrowed the gap in the final weeks
of the campaign by pledging to be a better steward of the
economy and vowing to post a  budget surplus  this fiscal year.  ‘A Shock’  “Regardless of how the final votes come down, it’s a
shock,” Richard Johnston, a political science professor at the
University of British Columbia, said in a telephone interview
from Vancouver. “The popular vote for the Liberals is much
stronger than suggested in the public opinion polls -- it’s a
pretty striking result.”  The winning party needs 43 seats to form a majority
government; otherwise it requires opposition support to approve
legislation in Canada’s third-most populous province.  Clark, a former radio-show host, has been premier for two
years after she replaced former leader Gordon Campbell, who
stepped down.  The NDP was favored to oust the Liberals, who have been in
power for 12 years. The  New Democrats  had the support of 45
percent of British Columbians, while Clark’s Liberals had 36
percent, according to an online survey of 808 people published
by Angus Reid Public Opinion on May 11. The survey’s margin of
error was plus or minus 3.5 percent.  Alberta Result  The surprise result mirrors the election last year in
neighboring Alberta in which Premier Alison Redford defeated
challenger Danielle Smith of the Wildrose Alliance, who had led
in most polls ahead of the vote.  Clark’s budget in February forecast a surplus in the fiscal
year that began in April by lifting tax rates on companies and
top income earners.  The province will post a C$197 million ($195 million)
surplus in 2013-2014, after reporting a deficit of C$1.23
billion in the previous year. The budget assumes economic growth
of 1.6 percent for the province, whose industries including
forestry, mining, natural gas and tourism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  