-- IBM to Offer Up ‘Jeopardy!’ Winner Watson to Software Developers
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-05-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/ibm-to-offer-up-jeopardy-winner-watson-to-software-makers.html
International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
will offer its Watson technology, which beat humans in
“Jeopardy!,” as a building block for startup companies making
 business software .  “We’ll launch an ecosystem where Watson is a service and
you build applications around it,” Chief Executive Officer
Ginni Rometty said in a speech at the annual meeting of the
 National Venture Capital Association  in  San Francisco .  Rometty has been taking steps to commercialize Watson, a
high-powered computer that can answer questions after being
preloaded with documents and websites. It has been deployed in
the health and finance markets since its debut on the trivia
show “Jeopardy!” in 2011, with its first products for the
doctors and medical researchers announced this year.  Soon, other businesses will be able to design software that
takes advantage of Watson’s cognitive computing technology.
Rometty said the move would help usher in an era of “systems
that learn on their own.”  “That’s what will be of value in the future, this domain
expertise,” Rometty said yesterday. “It’s a question-and-answer, it’s not a search.”  IBM has already worked with doctors to build applications
using Watson’s technology, including one that can be used to
help diagnose and treat certain types of cancer. The doctor
inputs information about the patient’s condition, and then
Watson responds with a possible diagnosis and treatment plan,
displaying the evidence and percentage of confidence for each
theory.  In 2012, Watson became 240 percent faster and 75 percent
smaller so it can run on a single server, IBM said in February.
The Armonk, New York-based company now can install a Watson
machine on-site for a business or remotely via cloud computing
to a personal computer, tablet or smartphone.  Rometty didn’t indicate how many developers would get
access to Watson’s technology.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  