-- Ibovespa Futures Decline as Commodities Drop Dims Export Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-05-15T12:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/ibovespa-futures-decline-as-commodities-drop-dims-export-outlook.html
Ibovespa futures dropped as concern
that the global economy is weakening pushed commodities lower,
dimming the outlook for Brazilian raw-material producers.  Lender Itau Unibanco Holding SA may move after it agreed to
buy Citigroup Inc.’s credit-card unit in  Brazil  for 2.77 billion
reais ($1.37 billion).  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s biggest beef
producer, may be active after posting first-quarter earnings
that trailed estimates.  Ibovespa futures  contracts expiring in June slipped 0.2
percent to 54,460 at 9:10 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real was little
changed at 2.0214 per dollar while the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
index of 24 raw materials fell 0.7 percent.  Commodities dropped as the German economy expanded less
than forecast in the first quarter, statistics showed today.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut its estimate for growth this
year in  China , following JPMorgan Chase & Co. Wholesale prices
in the U.S. dropped in April by the most in three years and
manufacturing in the  New York  region unexpectedly shrank in May
as factories received fewer orders and sales stagnated.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge has lost 10 percent this
year, the worst performer among 19 major  emerging markets ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Ibovespa  trades  at
12.1 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four
quarters, compared with 10.8 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 8.05 billion
reais yesterday, compared with a daily average of 7.71 billion
reais this year through April 30, according to data compiled by
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  