-- Libya Bank Lending Paralyzed Amid Interest Ban: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S a l e h   S a r r a r   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-15T07:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/libya-bank-lending-paralyzed-amid-interest-ban-islamic-finance.html
Ali Gumma finally saved enough money
to buy a plot of land near Tripoli and was planning to build a
family home when he hit a brick wall: He couldn’t find a Libyan
bank willing to lend him the money.  “I can’t afford to build it on my own,” the 52-year-old
university professor said in an interview in the capital.
“Traditional banks are barred from offering loans because they
aren’t Islamic but no alternatives have been introduced.”  Euphoria over a law passed this year that would make  Libya 
the third Middle Eastern country after  Iran  and  Sudan  to ban
non-Shariah compliant banking by 2015 has turned into
frustration and confusion. Parliament and the central bank have
distanced themselves from the decision of commercial lenders to
stop offering loans immediately. The law didn’t stipulate when
the transition would start, according to Omar Hamaidan, a
spokesman for the legislature.  “There seems to be a lack of guidelines for what banks
should do with customers,” Mohammad Farrukh Raza, managing
director of U.K.-based  Islamic Finance Advisory & Assurance
Services , who recently visited Tripoli, said in an interview.
“The general feeling is that the sector has stalled.”  Loan Growth  Loans and advances in Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, climbed 17 percent in the first nine months of 2012,
according to the latest  central bank  data. The loan-to-deposit
ratio stood at 25 percent, compared with more than 50 percent in
neighboring  Egypt .  Libya’s law takes efforts to promote Shariah-compliant
finance a step further than Tunisia and Egypt, where Islamist
groups that came to power in 2011 following popular uprisings
have sought to integrate Islamic banks and debt into the
financial system. The two countries are planning their first
sukuk sales this year to diversify funding sources and cut
borrowing costs.  The average yield on sovereign Islamic bonds has plunged
113 basis points, or 1.13 percentage points, since the start of
2012 to 2.77 percent May 14, according to the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai
Sovereign U.S. Dollar Sukuk Index. The drop helped sales in the
six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes  Saudi Arabia 
and the  United Arab Emirates , triple last year to about $21
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fitful Transition  Unlike its neighbors, Libya has no immediate plans to sell
sukuk, Central Bank Governor Saddek Elkaber said in a May 9
interview in  Beirut .  Elkaber said the regulator initially wanted to promote
Islamic lenders alongside so-called conventional banks. The
General National Congress chose to ban non-Islamic banking
outright in response to “the desires of the street and
pressures,” he said, adding the law doesn’t apply to
institutions.  The debacle adds to Libya’s fitful transition since the end
of the armed conflict that ended Muammar Qaddafi’s rule in 2011.
Authorities are struggling to rein in the militias and root out
radical Islamists from the oil-producing east. A timetable for
the democratic transition has been largely abandoned while the
May 5 passage of a bill to purge senior Qaddafi-era officials
from office threatens more delays.  Unhappy Citizens  While the 200-member GNC didn’t order banks to stop giving
out loans, banning interest left lenders scrambling to find
Shariah-compliant alternatives, Fathi Agoub, adviser to the
governor, said. “We understand the feelings, needs and
situation of the citizens who aren’t happy with these
procedures,” he said.  At a Tripoli branch of Gumhouria Bank, the country’s
biggest, manager Miloud Taher throws his arms up in despair.  “Customers are angry; they come every day to ask when they
will be able to get loans and prepayments to solve their
problems,” Taher said. The bank offers Islamic  car loans , which
some customers use “because as soon as they buy the car they
sell it new in order to get money,” he said.  Gumhouria had assets of $6.46 billion and 142 branches
before the 2011 uprising. Standing inside the branch, mother-of-two Khadija, a school teacher, said she’s been trying for two
months to get a loan to finance her daughter’s wedding. “I need
financial support from the bank,” she said, declining to give
her full name. “It used to be very easy to get a loan and it
only took a few days.”  Lives ‘Paralyzed’  Taher said he doesn’t believe banks can hold off giving out
personal loans and overdrafts for as long as two years. “The
lives of people are paralyzed,” he said. “That is why we urge
the congress and the Central Bank to find ways to help customers
to get loans and make prepayment more easier.”  The process “probably has to be reviewed and restructured
to allow the system, infrastructure and resources to match the
challenge,” said Raza of the  Islamic Finance  Advisory &
Assurance Services. “Islamic banking is a priority, but
probably they have bigger priorities as well, so I’m not sure if
enough thought was possibly given to this challenge.”  In the meantime, the central bank plans to award about
three licenses for domestic Islamic banks, Elkaber said. The
minimum capital requirement is 250 million Libyan dinars ($196
million), according to Ali Shambesh, director of statistics and
planning department at the central bank.  Qatar’s Masraf Al Rayan said in February it planned to buy
a stake in a Libyan bank to gain foothold in the country.  Elkaber cited Libya’s oil-generated cash resources for the
decision not to tap global sukuk markets in the short term, even
as borrowing costs decline. The yield on Dubai’s $1.25 billion
6.396 percent sukuk maturing next year fell 10 basis points last
week to 2.16 percent. The yield rose 1 basis point today to 2.17
percent at 11:41 a.m. in the emirate, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “We don’t have a problem with liquidity,” the governor
said. “We want to employ the liquidity properly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saleh Sarrar in Dubai at 
 ssarar@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  