-- ICA May Sell Stake in Airport Unit to Raise $400 Million
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-05-16T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/ica-may-sell-stake-in-airport-unit-to-raise-400-million.html
Empresas ICA SAB (ICA*) , Mexico’s largest
construction company, may sell as much as 100 million shares in
its airport operator in a transaction that could raise about
$400 million.  Aeroinvest SA, a subsidiary of Mexico City-based ICA, filed
a shelf registration with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to sell the Series B shares in  Grupo Aeroportuario
del Centro Norte SAB (OMAB) , which is known as OMA. Shares in the
airport operator fell 0.6 percent to 49.03 pesos at the close in
Mexico City, before the registration was filed.  The possible sale would allow debt-burdened ICA to raise
money while maintaining control of the San Pedro Garza Garcia,
Mexico-based airport unit through another class of shares known
as Series BB. ICA’s debt climbed to 54.2 billion pesos ($4.4
billion) as of March 31, 15 percent higher than a year earlier,
while earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 21 percent to 1.11 billion pesos, the company
said April 26.  The shelf registration is a positive for ICA since it comes
at a time when the shares trade at a higher premium than some
international peers, Credit Suisse analysts Eugenio Amador and
Julian Bravo said in a note. The proceeds “are likely to be
used for growth” or to meet short-term obligations, they wrote.  New Projects  President Enrique Pena Nieto is expected to announce a
national infrastructure plan as early as next month, according
to the Mexican Construction Industry Chamber, a trade group
representing builders.  ICA’s shelf registration would be valid for three years if
declared effective by the SEC, ICA said in a statement to the
Mexican Stock Exchange. The company controlled 234.5 million OMA
shares as of Dec. 31, representing 58.6 percent of the airport
company’s stock, it said in a regulatory  filing  last month.  OMA operates 13 Mexican airports including those serving
the northern business capital of Monterrey and the Pacific
resort of  Acapulco . Excluding a maintenance provision and
construction activity, its earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization advanced 12 percent in the first
quarter to 393 million pesos, or 56 percent of revenue.  The possible share sale shows that ICA is seeking to raise
money even if it means reducing its stake in one of its most
profitable assets, said Javier Gayol, an analyst at Corporativo
GBM SAB. The company's airport division generated 23 percent of Ebitda, as the
measure of cash flow is known, while accounting for only 8.3 percent of sales,
according to Gayol.   “This is a good way to raise money, but you’d be losing
participation in a stable asset with good cash generation and
very strong margins,” Gayol said in a telephone interview from
 Mexico  City. “To me this says the company has a huge need for
capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  