-- Iceland Ready to Buy Currency for Buffer Before Exiting Controls
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-05-15T09:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/iceland-ready-to-buy-currency-for-buffer-before-exiting-controls.html
Iceland’s central bank said it’s now
ready to start selling kronur and purchase foreign currency as
policy makers create a buffer to shield the island when  capital
controls  are unwound.  “The bank will attempt to increase its non-borrowed
reserves,” Reykjavik-based Sedlabanki said today. “Increasing
the non-borrowed reserves is a long-term goal, however, and the
implementation of that aim depends on both the strength of the
krona and movements in the exchange rate.”  The bank today left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
at 6 percent for a fourth consecutive meeting after intervening
to strengthen the krona and cool inflation. Iceland suspended
its foreign currency auctions at the beginning of the year and
in February said it would instead buy kronur, taking pressure
off rates. Policy makers are trying to protect the krona from
losses as they try to phase out capital controls in place since
the island’s 2008 economic meltdown.  “Inflation is closer to target than it has been,” the bank
said today. “Uncertainty about near-term  exchange rate 
developments could contribute to more persistent inflation
expectations, however, and slow down the disinflation process
following this year’s appreciation of the krona.”  Krona Gains  The krona has gained almost 6 percent against the euro this
year, helping slow inflation to 3.3 percent in April, from more
than 6 percent last year. The central bank raised rates six
times since August 2011 to prevent krona losses from fueling
inflation.  In a further effort to take pressure off the krona,
Iceland’s politicians and central bank have signaled they will
force a write down of as much as $3.6 billion in krona claims
held by creditors in the three banks that collapsed in 2008. The
move will prevent a sell-off that might otherwise have ensued as
offshore bank creditors converted their kronur.  The bank today lowered its forecast for economy growth this
year to 1.8 percent from 2.1 percent, and its 2014 forecast to 3
percent versus 3.7 percent previously  Iceland’s efforts to stabilize the krona are key to
protecting households from inflation that threatens to bloat
mortgages linked to the  consumer price index . At the height of
Iceland’s financial crisis, inflation peaked at 19 percent in
January 2009 following the krona’s collapse.  April Elections  The winners of Iceland’s April elections -- the Progressive
and Independence Parties that ousted the Social Democrat-led
government of Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir -- have
pledged as much as 20 percent in mortgage-debt relief to voters
burdened by inflation-linked mortgages. Households owe domestic
lenders about 1.43 trillion kronur ($11.6 billion) and have
struggled to keep up with debt payments as price increases have
averaged more than 7 percent over the past four years.  Parliament in March abandoned a 2013 deadline for the
removal of capital controls, which are blocking as much as $8
billion in assets from being offloaded. The island imposed the
restrictions after the currency in 2008 plunged as much as 80
percent against the euro offshore, sending the nation into its
worst recession in six decades.  Iceland, which completed a 33-month International Monetary
Fund program in August 2011, is now outgrowing much of  Europe  as
it recovers from its recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  