-- Milk Powder Auction Prices Rise to Second-Highest on Record
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-15T20:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/milk-powder-auction-prices-rise-to-second-highest-on-record.html
Whole milk powder auction prices rose
to the second-highest on record as New Zealand’s most widespread
drought in at least 30 years curbs supply.  Powder for July delivery rose 2.8 percent, according to a
trade-weighted index on the Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.’s
 GlobalDairyTrade  website. The near-term contract for New Zealand
product rose to $6,151 a metric ton. The record was $6,283 on
April 16.  Prices have surged 93 percent this year as a drought
declared across the entire North Island including Waikato
province, the country’s biggest milk producer, curbed milk
collection. The nation may receive near-normal rainfall through
July, the National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research
said last week.  Fonterra on March 27 raised its forecast payout to farmers
for the current season citing rising global demand at a time of
restrained supply. Milk collection in April slumped 34 percent
from a year earlier, the Auckland-based company said May 8.  Fonterra, which accounts for about a third of the global
trade in dairy products, sells whole, skim and butter-milk
powder, dried-milk fat, lactose, butter, cheese and casein at
its GlobalDairyTrade auctions. The company offers monthly
contracts with delivery starting from two months after the sale.
Casein is a protein found in milk.  Whole-milk powder for August delivery increased 2.9 percent
while prices across all five product contracts out to November
dropped 1.7 percent, Fonterra said.  In other auctions, prices for July delivery of milk fat and
casein also increased, while butter, skim and butter-milk powder
declined. Cheddar, lactose and milk protein concentrate weren’t
offered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  