-- IMF Says Board Approves $1.3 Billion Loan for Cyprus
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-05-15T22:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/imf-says-board-approves-1-3-billion-loan-for-cyprus.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
approved a 1 billion-euro ($1.3 billion) loan to Cyprus as part
of a bailout plan with European countries while stressing the
“substantial” risks surrounding the program.  “Challenges ahead are significant, including restoring
credibility in the banking sector and reducing fiscal deficits
and debt to sustainable levels,” IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde , who chaired the fund’s board meeting, said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday in Washington. “There is no
room for implementation slippages.”  Cyprus became the fourth euro-zone country to tap IMF aid
in  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, which has entangled the
finances of banks and nations in a mutually destructive spiral.
Officials involved in the rescue have insisted that the plan,
which taps Cypriot bank accounts to help plug the country’s
financing needs, won’t set a precedent.  “The immediate priority is to stabilize the banking
sector,” Lagarde said in the statement. “The authorities need
to complete the bank recapitalization process, including by
using public funds for solvent institutions where necessary”
while “in parallel, decisive steps will be taken to restructure
weak banks.”  After a tumultuous week in which an initial aid plan fell
apart, European governments and the IMF agreed on March 25 to
loan Cyprus 10 billion euros as long as the country liquidated
its second-largest bank and forced losses on bank bondholders
and deposits of more than 100,000 euros.  “The macroeconomic outlook is subject to high uncertainty
and risks to the program are substantial,” Lagarde said. “Full
and timely implementation of the program is critical to maintain
credibility and achieve the program’s objectives.”  The Washington-based fund’s board of directors also agreed
to immediately disburse 86 million euros to the Mediterranean
island, it said in the statement.  Cyprus already received 2 billion euros on May 13 and may
get as much as 1 billion euros more in June from the European
Stability Mechanism, the euro area’s permanent backstop fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  