-- Production Falls as U.S. Feels Global Weakness: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-05-15T20:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/industrial-production-in-u-s-declines-by-most-in-eight-months.html
Industrial production declined in
April by the most in eight months, indicating American
manufacturers will provide little support for an economy beset
by weaker global markets and  federal budget  cuts.  The larger-than-forecast 0.5 percent decrease in output at
factories, mines and utilities followed a revised 0.3 percent
gain that was weaker than first reported, Federal Reserve
figures showed today in  Washington . An increase in homebuilder
optimism indicated housing remains the economy’s bright spot.  A European recession that extended to a record sixth
quarter and slower growth in  China  are curbing sales for U.S.
companies such as Deere & Co. A second straight decrease in
factory production combined with limited inflation show Fed
policy makers have room to maintain record monetary stimulus as
they try to bolster the expansion.  “The economy is just not picking up steam,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida , who projected a 0.4 percent drop in
industrial production. “The weakness in the rest of the world
doesn’t help. The Fed will keep trying to prime the pump.”  Stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
another record, as the production figures fueled bets the Fed
will be in no rush to scale back stimulus. The  S&P 500  climbed
0.5 percent to 1,658.78 at the close in  New York .  The euro-area economy shrank more than forecast in the
three months through March, extending a recession that began at
the end of 2011.  Gross domestic product  in the 17-nation  euro
zone  fell 0.2 percent after a 0.6 percent decline in the
previous quarter, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today.  Deere Forecast  Deere cut its global construction and forestry equipment
sales forecast to a decline of about 5 percent in the year
through October, compared with a previous projection for a 3
percent increase.  The world’s largest agricultural-equipment maker reduced
its full-year equipment sales forecast after cold, wet weather
slowed demand for construction and turf-care machinery in  North
America .  The Moline, Illinois-based company’s “near-term forecast
is being tempered by lingering economic concerns in many parts
of the world, which are restraining business confidence and
growth,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Samuel Allen  said
in a statement today. North America is Deere’s largest market.  Manufacturing, which makes up 75 percent of total
production, unexpectedly fell 0.4 percent, the third drop in
four months, the Fed’s report showed. Economists projected a 0.1
percent April gain in manufacturing, which accounts for about 12
percent of the economy.  Consecutive Declines  The decrease followed a 0.3 percent drop a month earlier,
the first back-to-back decline since June 2009, when the economy
was emerging from a recession.  The median forecast for total industrial production in the
Bloomberg survey was for a 0.2 percent decrease. Estimates of
the 85 economists surveyed ranged from a drop of 0.7 percent to
an increase of 0.3 percent. The prior month was previously
reported as a gain of 0.4 percent.  A regional report from the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
indicated today that the weakness in  manufacturing (IPMGCHNG)  extended into
May. A gauge of factories in the  New York area  fell to minus 1.4
this month from 3.1 in April. Readings less than zero signal
contraction in New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern
 Connecticut .  Today’s nationwide industrial production data showed broad-based weakness. Output declined for business equipment,  consumer
goods  and construction materials.  Vehicle Production  The output of motor vehicles and parts decreased 1.3
percent after a 2.3 percent gain a month earlier. Manufacturing
excluding autos and parts fell 0.3 percent after a 0.5 percent
drop.  Cars and light trucks sold at a  14.9 million  annual pace in
April, down from a 15.2 million rate the prior month, according
to industry data from Ward’s Automotive Group. The first-quarter
average was 15.3 million, the strongest since 2008 and a sign
the longer-term outlook remains positive.  Today’s Fed report also showed  utility  output slumped 3.7
percent after a 6.4 percent jump the previous month that was the
biggest in six years. Demand for electricity and natural gas
returned to normal after gaining during the coolest March since
2002, according to the National Climatic Data Center.  Limited inflation is allowing Fed policy makers to continue
with $85 billion a month in securities purchases that are
helping fuel housing demand.  Producer Prices  A report from the Labor Department today showed wholesale
prices slumped in April by the most in three years, reflecting a
drop in fuel costs. The producer-price index declined 0.7
percent, the biggest decrease since February 2010, after falling
0.6 percent in March.  The economy may cool to a 1.6 percent pace in the second
quarter, after growing at a 2.5 percent rate in the first three
months of 2013, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists
from May 3 to May 8. The projected slowdown reflects the lagged
effect from a two percentage-point rise in the  payroll tax  at
the start of 2013 and $85 billion in automatic budget cuts that
began on March 1.  Companies are paring inventories at the same time, setting
the stage for a rebound in industrial production in the second
half of the year.  Business inventories  were little changed in
March for a second month, as sales fell by the most since June,
Commerce Department figures showed on May 13.  Greenbrier Cos., a Lake Oswego, Oregon-based rail-car
maker, is among those that expect orders will grow as consumer
demand picks up and the industry works off the excess supply
built up in the past few years.  Next Year  “We think there will be a modest amount of demand
continuing in 2013,” Chief Executive Officer William Furman
said in a May 8 presentation to investors. “We see substantial
demand in 2014 and 2015 building up.”  Another report today showed housing remains a pillar of the
expansion as low  mortgage rates , a strengthening job market and
limited inventories benefit builders.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of  builder confidence  rose to 44 from a revised 41 in April, the
Washington-based group reported. Readings below 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were poor.  “Builders are noting an increased sense of urgency among
potential buyers as a result of thinning inventories of homes
for sale, continuing affordable mortgage rates and strengthening
local economies,” said Rick Judson, chairman of the trade group
and a builder from  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “This is
definitely an encouraging sign.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  