-- Lira Falls to Weakest Since March as Fed Stimulus Questioned
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-05-15T16:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/lira-falls-to-weakest-since-march-as-fed-stimulus-questioned.html
The lira weakened to its lowest level
since March on speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve may slow its
asset purchase program, weakening capital inflows into the
riskier emerging-market assets.  The currency dropped 0.3 percent to 1.8216 per dollar at
6:17 p.m. in Istanbul, the weakest since March 25. Yields on
two-year benchmark bonds rose two basis points to 5.04 percent,
advancing for a second day.  Turkey ’s central bank will hold its
monthly rate-setting meeting tomorrow.  Charles Plosser , president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia , said this week he favors reducing bond purchases
that have pumped more than $2 trillion into the  U.S. economy  and
weighed on the dollar. Fed policy makers are buying about $85
billion of treasuries and mortgage securities a month to foster
a recovery in the world’s largest economy.  “Markets are speculating that the Fed might slowly
decrease the pace of asset purchases and this is clearly
boosting the dollar,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a Frankfurt-based
currency strategist at Commerzbank AG, said in an e-mail. “This
is somewhat negative for emerging market currencies, which have
so far benefited from the ample liquidity coming from the U.S.”  Weaker Lira  A weaker lira may stop the Turkish central bank from
cutting  interest rates  tomorrow, according to Nguyen. “The
probability that it won’t cut has increased significantly due to
the large lira drop,” she said.  Policy makers will cut the benchmark repo, overnight
lending and overnight borrowing rates by 25 basis points each
tomorrow, the median estimates in three separate surveys of
economists on Bloomberg show. Turkey’s central bank reduced all
three rates on April 16 by 50 basis points, or 0.50 percentage
point, citing an increase of capital inflows.  Turkey’s currency is the least volatile on a three-month
basis among 10 major emerging market nations in  Europe , the
Middle East and  Africa , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The lira may weaken to 1.86 per dollar by the end of the year,
according to currency forwards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  