-- Iran Lawmakers Seek Bar on Two Candidates From Election
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-05-15T10:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/iran-lawmakers-seek-bar-on-two-candidates-from-election.html
At least 100 Iranian lawmakers called
for the authorities to ban two candidates from the June
presidential election.  The parliamentarians, about a third of the total, signed a
petition asking the Guardian Council, which is in the process of
screening presidential candidates, to prevent former President
Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, a top
aide to  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , the current head of state, from
participating in the June 14 race, the state-run  Mehr  news
agency reported.  “The role of some who signed up, whose children guided and
coordinated the sedition and united its leaders, isn’t unknown
to anyone,” the lawmakers wrote in the letter addressed to the
top body. Rafsanjani wasn’t mentioned by name.  In the past year, his daughter and son were temporarily
detained on charges of inciting unrest and spreading propaganda.
Rafsanjani has come under attack for his sympathy to the
opposition movement that emerged after the disputed 2009 vote.  The lawmakers also urged the watchdog to block “the
deviant circle” and “those who have diverted from the Islamic
Republic’s rhetoric,” according to Mehr. “They have tried to
replace Islamism with nationalism,” “have attracted the
morally corrupt and the liberals” and “came up with terms such
as a comprehensive human being to confront the supreme
leadership,” read the letter published in full which didn’t
refer to Mashaei by name.  Critics of Ahmadinejad have accused Mashaei, who the
president is promoting, of initiating a “current of
deviation,” which they say is endangering the Islamic Republic
that’s led by Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei .  The Guardian Council has started reviewing the background,
qualifications and beliefs of candidates who signed up before
the May 11 deadline. The  Interior Ministry  has said it will
announce the list of approved candidates on May 22. All
candidates are vetted by the Guardian Council, which usually
reduces the field to less than 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  