-- Iron Ore Tumbles Into Bear Market on China Growth Concerns
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-05-15T11:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/iron-ore-tumbles-into-bear-market-on-china-growth-concerns.html
Iron ore  slumped  into a bear market
on concern that slowing economic growth in  China , the world’s
biggest buyer, will reduce demand as global supplies increase.  Ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to the Chinese
port of Tianjin fell 1.3 percent to $126.40 a ton today,
according to The Steel Index Ltd. The benchmark price has lost
20 percent since Feb. 20, when it reached a 16-month high of
$158.90, meeting the common definition of a bear market.  China’s April industrial output trailed estimates and
fixed-asset investment slowed, data showed this week, after
economic growth unexpectedly contracted in the first quarter.
Bank of America Corp. reduced its estimate on China’s 2013 gross
domestic product  growth  to 7.6 percent from 8 percent.  “Chinese macro data has been worse than expected,” Daniel Hynes, Sydney-based head of commodity strategy at  CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , said before today’s price decline. Rio Tinto
Group’s planned expansion of its iron ore operation in  Australia 
“brings focus back on the supply side which, from an Australian
point of view, is growing strongly,” he said by phone today.  Prices will decline as supplies expand faster than demand
over the long term, Alan Chirgwin, general manager of iron ore
marketing at  BHP Billion Ltd. (BHP) , said May 8. Low-cost supplies
mainly from Australia and  Brazil  will replace more expensive
output and eventually exceed Chinese demand, he said.  Expansion Plans  Rio Tinto’s planned expansion in Australia’s Pilbara to 290
million metric tons a year is expected to be completed in the
third quarter, the world’s second-biggest mining company said in
February. The board is expected to approve in the fourth quarter
an increase in annual output to 360 million tons unless there
are significant changes to the global demand-supply situation,
Chief Executive Officer Sam Walsh said last week, according to
two people present at a meeting with investors and analysts.  The increase in global supply may take longer than
expected, while demand in China may be sustained into 2014, said
Morgan Stanley in a report dated yesterday. The bank said in
April that the global seaborne market will shift into surplus
from 2015, revising a January forecast of supplies outpacing
demand in 2014.  “Market concerns over the sustainability of strong iron
ore prices are focused on the prospect of an excess of supply
coming to market in 2013 and 2014,” analysts Joel Crane and
Peter Richardson wrote in the report, referring to expansions
such as the Pilbara operations. “While an increase in mine
capacity is well understood in the market, the timetable of
ramp-up into that capacity is not.”  Iron ore prices will go into structural decline in the long
term as the market moves into oversupply in 2014-2015, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said in a report dated yesterday, forecasting
an average of $115 a ton in 2014.  China Stimulus  Speculation of continued credit tightening in China’s
housing market may also be weighing on prices, according to
Hynes. Homes sales in China fell 13 percent in April from the
previous month after measures ordered by the government this
year, including higher down-payment requirements and strict
enforcement of transaction taxes, began to take effect.  Chinese Premier Li Keqiang signaled there is limited room
for using stimulus and direct government investments to achieve
China’s development targets for this year. China’s current
economic development situation is complicated and faces
“relatively large” downward pressure, he said, according to
the transcript of a May 13 speech on the government’s website.  Last year China cut  interest rates  twice and accelerated
investment approvals in response to slowing growth.  Iron ore is measured in dry tons, or metric tons less
moisture. At Tianjin port moisture can account for 8 percent to
10 percent of the ore’s weight.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  