-- IRS Scandal Rooted in Money, Power and Washington
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-15T22:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/irs-scandal-rooted-in-money-power-and-washington.html
Addressing the  scandal  exposed at the
 Internal Revenue Service  last week, President  Barack Obama 
announced the resignation of the agency’s acting commissioner,
adding: “I’ll do everything in my power to make sure nothing
like this happens again.”  Ideally, the scandal will lead to reform of the vague rules
that govern political groups. It will also lead Congress to end
the practice of anonymous donations to political causes, which
is at the heart of the controversy. Are you sufficiently naive
to believe such a fruitful outcome is possible? We didn’t think
so.  Nevertheless, it’s important to understand the troubling
events that unfolded at the IRS Determination Unit in
Cincinnati, where employees reviewed applications from groups
seeking tax-exempt status and apparently targeted conservative
groups for enhanced scrutiny.  Beyond the bureaucratic incompetence it exposed, this
fiasco says something about the power of both money and
influence in U.S. politics -- and it isn’t good.  The groups in question were applying for recognition as
social welfare organizations under section 501(c)(4) of the  tax
code . Among other advantages, these groups needn’t disclose
their donors.  “The promotion of social welfare,”  according to the IRS ,
“does not include direct or indirect participation or
intervention in political campaigns on behalf of or in
opposition to any candidate for public office.” The IRS then
effectively voids that prohibition in its very next sentence,
explaining that a social welfare organization “may engage in
some political activities, so long as that is not its primary
activity.” What constitutes “primary” activity? Who knows?  In a report released this week, the IRS inspector general
made clear that employees at the determination unit screened
applications for tax-exempt status using keywords such as “ Tea
Party ” or “Patriots” as proxies for political intent. Other
application screens initially used by the unit included
references to “ government spending , government debt or taxes” --
all interests more prevalent among conservatives than liberals.  The report cited “ineffective management” and shoddy
procedures as the sources of the problem. This appears to be a
genial understatement.  In order to determine whether groups applying for tax-exempt status were “primarily” engaged in partisan politics or
not, it seems the IRS employees were on the lookout for
conservative buzzwords. This had a crude logic to it: The
amorphous Tea Party phenomenon, which inspired many of the
groups submitting applications, is hardly apolitical. If you
were looking for organizations likely to be devoted to
electioneering and partisan politics during Obama’s first term,
screening for “Tea Party” would be one way to flag them.  Unfortunately, this defense crumbles when examined in the
context of the IRS’s approach to other groups. Indeed, some
highly political 501(c)(4) applicants seem to have enjoyed
smooth sailing.  Karl Rove ’s Crossroads GPS, a tax-exempt
organization that spent more than $70 million in the 2012
campaign aiding the election of Republican candidates,
experienced no great IRS troubles. Similarly, the  Service
Employees International Union  used a 501(c)(4) to work just as
obviously (albeit with fewer dollars) for the election of
Democrats. No hassles there, either.  The key question to be determined -- by a pending Justice
Department investigation and perhaps even by congressional
hearings, if they don’t devolve into farce -- is whether IRS
actions were informed by obtuseness or partisan spite. The
inspector general report clearly suggests that rank incompetence
(and a shocking degree of insubordination) had the upper hand on
partisanship in the Cincinnati office. This is a comfort -- but
not much of one.  It’s possible, too, that volume played a role: The number
of applications for 501(c)(4) status jumped from 1,735 in 2010
to 3,357 in 2012. Likewise, the amount of political spending by
these groups exploded. According to the  Center for Responsive
Politics , political spending in 2012 by 501(c)(4) organizations
surpassed $250 million.  The inspector general made a series of recommendations to
the IRS, which Obama said will be implemented. But according to
the report, the agency has already rejected two of them: that it
better document why applications are chosen for review and that
it develop guidance on “how to process requests for tax-exempt
status involving potentially significant political campaign
intervention.” For an institution that is feared and loathed in
roughly equal parts, declining an opportunity to explain its
murky ways seems ill-advised.  Then there’s the deeper dysfunction this episode exposed.
Until Congress passes the Disclose Act, which would end the
practice of anonymous political spending, the IRS will continue
to oversee groups that spend millions to influence the political
process.     What’s more, well-financed, powerful groups with deep
political connections and access to first-rate legal advice will
continue to whiz through the IRS express lane while genuine
citizen organizations, Tea-Party-inspired and otherwise, will
endure long waits to have their applications approved. The
inspector general found one hapless applicant waiting 1,138 days
for approval. We don’t know the victim’s name. We’re pretty sure
it wasn’t “Rove.”  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 