-- Italy Sets Size of 30-Year Bond Sale at 6 Billion Euros
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2013-05-15T14:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/italy-said-to-draw-bids-above-10-billion-euros-for-30-year-bonds.html
Italy  set the size of a sale of 30-year bonds via banks at 6 billion euros ($7.72 billion),
according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to
be identified because they’re not authorized to speak about it.  Investors submitted bids of more than 12.7 billion euros
for the securities due in September 2044, which will be priced
to yield 13 basis points more than the current 30-year
benchmark, the person said. The Finance Ministry said yesterday
it would sell the bonds through syndication and mandated five
banks as lead managers. The books closed at 12:15 p.m. London
time.  This is the first time the country has sold a new 30-year
benchmark security since September 2009. Spain sold 7 billion
euros of new benchmark 10-year notes through banks yesterday.  It’s probably more convenient for Italy to sell the bonds
via a syndication, Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates
strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, said by phone. “The
size is normally bigger than a standard auction and it also
allows the Treasury to have a better idea of who the buyers
are.”  Italy’s 30-year yield increased seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 4.86 percent as of 2:52 p.m.  London  time
after falling to 4.57 percent on May 3, the lowest since March
2007.  ‘Very Good’  The timing “looks very good since yields are still close
to their lows,” said Gianluca Ziglio, executive director of
fixed-income research at Sunrise Brokers LLP in London.  The new government of Prime Minister Enrico Letta may pass
this week measures to spur economic growth after the austerity
policies by his predecessor Mario Monti deepened a recession.  At a meeting on May 17 in Rome, the cabinet will probably
suspend the next payment of the property tax assessed on primary
residences and to renew a temporary layoff program as
unemployment remains near a 20-year high.  Italy’s economy contracted more than forecast in the three
months through March as weak domestic demand extended a
recession to its seventh quarter, the National Statistics
Institute Istat in  Rome  said in a preliminary report today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Zega in London at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  