-- Sumitomo Mitsui Leads Japan Banks Forecasting Lower Profit
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-05-16T08:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/mizuho-sees-profit-falling-from-six-year-high-as-margins-narrow.html
Japan’s three biggest banks led by
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  forecast earnings will
decline this year as monetary easing makes loans less profitable
even as borrowing picks up amid an economic recovery.  Sumitomo Mitsui said net income will fall 27 percent to 580
billion yen ($5.7 billion) in the year ending March.  Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ’s profit will slip 11 percent to 760
billion yen and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ’s will drop 11
percent to 500 billion yen, they said in statements yesterday.  Bank shares sank, even after a report today showed the
Japanese economy expanded the most in a year last quarter as a
weaker yen boosted exports and  consumer spending  rose. Falling
interest rates on the back of the  Bank of Japan ’s efforts to end
deflation are curbing loan profitability, keeping net interest
margins at the nation’s lenders the lowest in  Asia .  “The challenge for megabanks this year is how to increase
profit from lending at a time when low  interest rates  squeeze
margins,” said Katsuhide Takahashi, a credit analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in  Tokyo . “They need to take advantage of their
brokerage and fee businesses, which are benefiting from the
market rebound.”  Sumitomo Mitsui  shares  dropped 3 percent to 4,770 yen at
the close of Tokyo trading. Mitsubishi UFJ, Japan’s largest
bank, slid 3.6 percent and Mizuho lost 3.1 percent. The  Topix
Banks Index (TPX)  fell 3 percent, the worst performer on the benchmark
Topix, which slipped 0.6 percent.  Economic Growth  The profit projections of the Tokyo-based banks still beat
analysts’ estimates, signaling they are more optimistic that
credit demand will gain momentum and the equity rally will spur
fee income. The surging stock market is making consumers feel
wealthier, helping to fuel the economy’s 3.5 percent expansion
last quarter, Cabinet Office figures showed today.  Sumitomo Mitsui’s earnings forecast exceeded analysts’
projections for 551.5 billion yen. Japan’s second-biggest bank
by market value said profit surged 53 percent to a record 794.1
billion yen in the year ended March, led by income from trading
securities such as  government bonds .  President  Koichi Miyata  told reporters that he wants his
bank to “aggressively” increase lending and Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s policies will spur demand from borrowers. Lending
income grew 4 percent last year, the company said.  Abe’s Strategy  The Topix climbed about 40 percent in the past two
quarters, with Abe winning an election in December based on a
three-pronged strategy of fiscal spending, monetary easing and
deregulation. The government’s debt returned 2.2 percent in the
period, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Mitsubishi UFJ’s profit target exceeded the 747.5 billion
yen estimated by analysts. Net income dropped 13 percent to
852.6 billion yen last fiscal year, it said.  Mizuho’s earnings projection beat the 464.2 billion yen
average  estimate  of 17 analysts surveyed. Net income rose 16
percent to 560.5 billion yen last year, led by higher fees and
commissions and trading income, the bank reported.  “Megabanks’ better-than-expected forecasts probably
reflect their expectation for Abenomics to increase lending on
top of profits from fees and overseas businesses,” said Naoko Nemoto, managing director of financial institutions ratings at
 Standard & Poor’s  in Tokyo.  Raised Dividends  Mitsubishi UFJ joined Sumitomo Mitsui in raising  dividends .
The bigger lender boosted its payout to 13 yen a share for the
year ended March from 12 yen previously, the first increase in
five years. It plans a 14 yen dividend this year. Sumitomo
Mitsui on April 26 announced a 20 percent increase for last year
to 120 yen. It aims to pay 110 yen this year, it said yesterday.  Companies and households are borrowing more as the economy
recovers from last year’s recession. Bank lending rose 2.1
percent in April from a year earlier, the fastest pace since
July 2009, central bank figures showed last week.  Still, profitability on loans is shrinking. The average net
interest margin at the 85 companies on the Topix Banks Index is
1.33 percent, the least in Asia, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg based on their latest filings. The average interest
rate on  new bank loans  slid to an all-time low of 0.86 percent
in February, according to BOJ data.  Loan margin at the country’s banks is likely to drop this
fiscal year, Takeshi Kunibe, chairman of the Japanese Bankers
Association, said at news briefing in Tokyo today. The decline
in loan profitability may halt when loan demand increases with
the economic recovery, he said.  Higher Yields  Not all interest rates have been falling since Bank of
Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda unveiled his plan last month to
double the monetary base in two years. Government bond yields
have surged on expectations Kuroda’s measures will spark
inflation, highlighting the risk that banks -- the biggest
holders of the securities -- could incur losses.  Mizuho Chief Executive Officer  Yasuhiro Sato  told reporters
that any potential increase in long-term yields will be
controllable. The bank doesn’t plan to increase holdings of
government bonds or foreign debt, he said, adding that it will
keep the maturity of Japan notes below three years.  Mitsubishi UFJ President Nobuyuki Hirano said his bank will
continue to be a stable holder of Japan’s debt.  Benchmark 10-year government bond  yields  fell 1 basis point
to 0.84 percent at 4:49 p.m. The rate touched 0.92 percent
yesterday, the highest since April 2012.  Japanese banks, which have been using their excess deposits
to buy government bonds, have reduced their holdings as the
central bank increases purchases. Lenders had 164 trillion yen
of the securities in February, down from a record 171 trillion
yen in March last year.  “ Japan  long-bond yields are finding where to settle after
bold monetary easing,” said Kunibe, who is also president of
Sumitomo Mitsui’s banking unit. “It’s hard for banks to expect
high profit in JGB trading on low rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  