-- J&J Wins Expanded Approval of Simponi for Bowel Disease
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-15T20:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/j-j-wins-expanded-approval-of-simponi-for-bowel-disease.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  won U.S. approval
to use its rheumatoid arthritis drug Simponi to treat patients
suffering from a moderate to severe inflammatory bowel disease.  The Food and Drug Administration today cleared the drug’s
use in adults with a chronic condition called ulcerative colitis
after conventional therapy has failed or continuous steroid use
is required. About 620,000 people in the U.S. have the disease,
which causes ulcers in the colon and rectum that lead to
abdominal pain and diarrhea, the FDA said in a  statement .  Simponi, first approved in 2009, generated $607 million in
sales last year, a figure that may double to $1.2 billion by
2016, according to the average of four analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The FDA approved  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’
best-selling arthritis treatment Humira on Sept. 28 for
ulcerative colitis, a disease that may lead to removal of the
colon.  “It is critical that patients suffering from the serious
and painful symptoms of ulcerative colitis have additional
treatment options since patients experience the effects of the
disease and respond to treatments differently,” Andrew Mulberg,
deputy director of FDA’s division of gastroenterology, said in
the statement.  Colitis Market  J&J’s $6 billion drug Remicade, the  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based company’s top seller, is cleared for ulcerative
colitis and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  is studying its Xeljanz in the disease.
Patients who participated in a trial of Simponi for the bowel
disease had first failed to respond to steroids or medications
that suppress the immune system.  As many as 40 percent of people with ulcerative colitis
need surgery to remove the rectum and part or all of the colon,
according to the  National Institutes of Health . Simponi,
Remicade and Humira are antibodies that inhibit TNF-alpha, a
protein that when overproduced in the body causes inflammation.  The ulcerative colitis market is expected to double to $3.7
billion in 2021 in the U.S.,  Canada ,  Japan  and top European
countries, according to a December estimate from Burlington,
Massachusetts-based research and consulting firm Decision
Resources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  