-- Jana Took Stakes in Zynga, Groupon During First Quarter
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-05-15T20:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/jana-took-stakes-in-zynga-groupon-during-first-quarter.html
Jana Partners LLC, the hedge-fund
manager run by Barry Rosenstein, took stakes in  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and
 Groupon (GRPN)  Inc. last quarter while exiting companies including
insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and McGraw Hill
Financial Inc.  The fund acquired 25.5 million shares of social-gaming
company Zynga, valued at $85.6 million at the end of the
quarter, and 21.9 million shares of Chicago-based Groupon, worth
$134.3 million, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Jana, which manages about $5 billion, generally invests in
companies undergoing changes such as mergers, spinoffs and
bankruptcies, and is known for pushing management to consider
changes. Zynga Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  is working to
restart growth as more consumers shift away from games on
desktop machines, and toward games played on wireless devices.  The San Francisco-based company last month forecast second-quarter sales that may fall short of some analysts’ estimates as
revenue from mobile titles fails to make up for the drop in
users accessing games via  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s website.  Zynga gained 4.4 percent to close at $3.48 in New York.
Groupon declined 0.4 percent to $6.86.  Groupon’s Gains  Groupon’s shares have gained 41 percent this year as the
daily deal website increases coupon sales from its mobile
application and adds personalization features to attract more
users. Coupons sold on mobile devices accounted for 45 percent
of all transactions in  North America  in the quarter ended in
March, up from 30 percent a year earlier, the company said
earlier this month.  The hedge fund also took new stakes in aircraft maker
 Boeing Co. (BA)  and  DirecTV (DTV) , a satellite-television provider. Charles Penner, a Jana spokesman, declined to comment.  Jana exited its $122 million stake in insurer American
International Group and a $118 million holding in McGraw Hill
Financial. Jana had pushed McGraw Hill to consider changes and
the company completed the sale of its education unit to  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  in March.  Agrium Stake  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , the largest U.S. farm-products retailer, was
the New York-based hedge fund’s largest U.S.-listed stock
holding as of March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Jana has feuded with Agrium after proposing that the Calgary-based company split its retail farm-products operations from its
wholesale fertilizer unit.  Jana said in a separate filing in April that it took a
stake in  Oil States International Inc. (OIS)  and spoke with management
at the Houston-based company about separating its well-site
services unit and creating a real estate investment trust for
its oilfield housing business. The hedge fund also said in a
regulatory filing last month that it had acquired a 7.4 percent
stake in chemical maker  Ashland Inc. (ASH)   Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in U.S.
equities must file a Form 13F within 45 days of the end of each
quarter to list their holdings in stocks that trade on U.S.
exchanges, as well as options and convertible debt.  Hedge funds 
are lightly regulated pools of capital whose managers can invest
in any asset and share in annual profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  