-- Japan’s Bonds Halt Worst Drop in Decade After BOJ Adds Funding
-- B y   S a b u r o   F u n a b i k i   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-05-15T06:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/japan-s-bonds-halt-worst-drop-in-decade-after-boj-adds-funding.html
Japanese government bonds halted the
biggest slide in almost a decade after the central bank
announced a 2.8 trillion yen ($27 billion) infusion of funds.  The yield on the  five-year note  earlier reached 0.455
percent, the most since May 2011. JGBs have plunged in the past
three days as an advance in global shares and U.S. bond yields
sapped demand for debt with yields still among the lowest in the
world. The Bank of Japan supplied an extra 2 trillion yen in
one-year funds today, the first of such size since April, in
addition to a regular injection of 800 billion yen.  “The BOJ’s one-year supply operation is designed to calm
the bond market, targeting middle-term securities that have been
sold off the most,” said Toshiaki Terada, a researcher at Totan
Research Co., a money-market brokerage in Tokyo. “The
operations in April had a reasonable impact on the market.”  Five-year yields added one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 0.41 percent as of 3:02 p.m. in  Tokyo . The benchmark
10-year rate was up 1 1/2 basis point to 0.86 percent after
earlier reaching 0.92 percent, highest since April 2012.  The 10-year rate soared 25.5 basis points from May 10 to
yesterday, marking the biggest three-day surge since August
2003. Today’s operation was aimed at responding to the rapid
increase in interest rates, according to the BOJ’s market
operations division.  JGB Losses  “I don’t think the BOJ expected bond yields to rise to
these levels,” said Makoto Suzuki, a senior bond strategist at
Okasan Securities Co. in Tokyo, one of the 24 primary dealers
obliged to bid at government debt sales. “There will possibly
be bad effects on the economy from gains in bond yields, so the
BOJ may be showing its stance toward such market moves with its
supply of funds.”  JGBs initially surged after BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda
announced on April 4 that the central bank would double bond
purchases in an effort to end deflation. The 10-year yield
plunged to a record low of 0.315 the following day.  Japanese government debt lost 3.1 percent through yesterday
since the BOJ’s stimulus announcement last month, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. In dollar terms, JGBs
slumped 8.5 percent, reflecting the yen’s depreciation.  The Topix Index of shares jumped 1.8 percent today to the
highest since August 2008. Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields reached
1.985 percent yesterday, the highest since March 15.  Japan  has the largest debt burden in the world, making its
fiscal health vulnerable to rising interest rates. The nation’s
liabilities will probably balloon to 245 percent of economic
output this year, according to the International Monetary Fund’s
estimate. The debt totaled 991.6 trillion yen at the end of
March, a 0.6 percent decrease from the end of December,
according to a Ministry of Finance statement on May 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saburo Funabiki in Tokyo at 
 sfunabiki@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  