-- Japan’s Nuclear Watchdog Shows Its Bark Has Some Bite: Energy
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-05-16T09:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/japan-s-nuclear-watchdog-set-to-request-closing-reactor-on-fault.html
Japan ’s nuclear regulator, set up to
replace a predecessor that ignored warnings before the atomic
disaster in Fukushima, looks set to deliver a ruling that will
permanently shut at least one nuclear plant and maybe more.  An advisory board appointed by the Nuclear Regulation
Authority said yesterday that an earthquake fault running under
the country’s oldest reactor at Japan Atomic Power Co.’s Tsuruga
plant is active. Laws in Japan, which experiences about 10
percent of the world’s earthquakes, prohibit building reactors
on active faults.  Tsuruga is one of six plants the regulator is probing for
active faults after the quake and tsunami off Fukushima in March
2011 caused the meltdown of three reactors. Plants including
those run by Kansai Electric Power Co.,  Hokuriku Electric Power
Co. (9505)  and Tohoku Electric Power Co. also are under investigation.  “Japan Atomic’s survival is now in doubt,” Takashi Aoki,
a Tokyo-based  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset Management Co., said
by phone yesterday. This also raises the risk for other
operators facing similar investigations, and investors will take
note of that, he said.  Japan Atomic would have 256 billion yen ($2.5 billion) in
losses if the company closes its two reactors in Tsuruga and one
at its Tokai Dai-Ni plant, exceeding its 163 billion yen in net
assets, the trade and industry ministry estimated last June. The
ministry oversees the country’s power companies.  Japan Atomic’s Dai-Ni station lost external power during
the earthquake and tsunami that wrecked  Tokyo Electric ’s Dai-Ichi station 110 kilometers north up the coast. The plant was
closed after the disaster.  Prepared for Earthquakes  Scrutiny of earthquake preparedness has increased as well
in  Europe .  Electricite de France SA (EDF) , the world’s biggest
operator of reactors, was required to strengthen the concrete
base of its Fessenheim nuclear power plant by the end of the
year to better protect it against earthquakes.  Fessenheim, the oldest French nuclear plant, is located
about 50 kilometers (31 miles) from the Swiss city of Basel that
 in 1356 was demolished  by one of the most damaging historically
documented earthquakes in central Europe. French President
 Francois Hollande  has pledged to close Fessenheim by the end of
2016 after protests against it in France, Germany and
 Switzerland .  Japan Atomic, which is owned by the country’s 10 regional
utilities, including Tokyo Electric Power Co., has traded barbs
for months with the regulator over Tsuruga.  ‘Very Regrettable’  “It is very regrettable and unacceptable that such a
decision was made” as the company has repeatedly explained the
fault in question is not active, Japan Atomic said in a
statement yesterday. The report is not based on “objective
facts and data,” it said.  The Tsuruga report will be delivered to the Nuclear
Regulation Authority, Kunihiko Shimazaki, who led the
investigations, said yesterday in  Tokyo .  Once a fault line moves directly under a nuclear reactor
“it will easily run into a serious situation,” Shimazaki said
yesterday at the meeting.  Japan Atomic plans to complete its investigations on the
fault by the end of June, it said in a statement last month.  Fast Breeder  Separately, the Nuclear Regulation Authority said today it
will order the Japan Atomic Energy Agency to keep its Monju
experimental fast-breeder reactor idled until the operator
improves its safety management system.  The decision came after the operator reported in November
it failed to properly inspect thousands of pieces of equipment,
according to the regulator.  The Monju reactor, which uses reprocessed spent plutonium
and uranium for fuel, has been plagued with challenges.  The reactor had a sodium leakage in August 1995 three
months after it started power generation for the first time. The
JAEA resumed test operation of the reactor in May 2010 after 14
years of suspension. In August 2010, a fuel exchange device fell
into the reactor, and the unit has been shut ever since, the
regulator said today in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  