-- Japan Prime Minister’s Aide Makes Unannounced N. Korea Visit
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-05-15T07:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/japan-prime-minister-s-aide-makes-unannounced-north-korea-visit.html
An aide to Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe made an unannounced visit to  North Korea  that could
ease regional tensions after months of missile and nuclear
threats from the totalitarian state.  Isao Iijima arrived yesterday in Pyongyang, the state-run
Korean  Central News Agency  said in a statement, and was met by
Foreign Ministry official Kim Chol Ho. Iijima also served as a
secretary to former Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi , who
visited Pyongyang in 2002 and 2004 in a bid to resolve the issue
of Japanese citizens abducted by North Korea decades ago.  Abe today in parliament declined to comment on Iijima’s
visit. When asked whether he had any plans to meet North Korean
leader Kim Jong Un, he told lawmakers he would consider doing so
only if a meeting would help resolve the abductee problem, as
well as the nuclear and missile issues.  “Meeting is not the point,” he said. “There must be
results.”  Japan  broke off talks with North Korea on the abduction
issue in December after Kim’s regime announced plans to fire a
long-range rocket in defiance of international sanctions. North
Korea then detonated an atomic bomb and warned of preemptive
nuclear strikes against the U.S. and  South Korea , threats that
have moderated since the beginning of May.  The North admitted in 2002 to kidnapping 13 Japanese in the
1970s and 1980s, a key issue in the normalization of ties
between the two countries, and allowed five of them to return
home, saying the others were dead. Japan says at least 17 people
were kidnapped and that there must be a full accounting for all
those who have not been returned.  Nuclear Tests  North Korea has been ready to conduct a fourth nuclear
weapons test since its last atomic detonation in February, the
South Korean  Defense Ministry  said last month. Two ballistic
missiles have been withdrawn from a launch site in the east of
the country,  CNN  reported May 6. U.S. and South Korean forces
declined to confirm nor deny the possible missile withdrawal.  Abe, who visited Pyongyang with Koizumi a decade ago, has
been closely associated with the campaign for the return of the
abductees. In a February policy speech to parliament, he said
his mission would not be complete until all families of
abductees were reunited with their missing relatives.  Glyn Davies , the U.S. special envoy on North Korean issues,
yesterday in Seoul said he was unaware of Iijima’s trip. Davies
is in Beijing today before flying to  Tokyo .  “That will obviously be something that I discuss with the
Japanese when I have a chance to talk to my counterparts there
in a couple of days,” Davies told reporters yesterday. He said
the U.S. wants North Korea to “move back in a diplomatic
direction by taking actions to show their seriousness of purpose
on the denuclearization issue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  