-- Jobless Targeted in Angola Business Plan, Economy Minister Says
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-05-15T10:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/jobless-targeted-in-angola-business-plan-economy-minister-says.html
Angola ,  Africa ’s largest crude oil
producer after  Nigeria , plans to use loan guarantees and
investment to create thousands of companies and jobs, Minister
of the Economy Abrahao Gourgel said.  Part of the $435 million plan called  Angola Invests  is to
start or help 9,000 companies and generate 300,000 jobs to cut
unemployment from a government-estimated 20 percent, Gourgel
said in a May 10 interview in Luanda, the capital.  “We want to substitute national products for imports,
promote exports and support entrepreneurship,” said Gourgel,
who has held government posts since the early 1990s, including
central bank governor. “We want to improve the employment rate,
diversify the economy and increase national production.”  Angola is trying to support small and medium-sized
businesses to diversify its economy away from crude oil, which
accounts for about 40 percent of economic output and 70 percent
of government revenue, according to the  International Monetary
Fund .  The country, rebuilding from a 27-year civil war that ended
in 2002, wants to cut the red tape that has left it with a rank
of  172 of 183  economies on the  World Bank ’s 2013 Ease of Doing
Business Index and reduce unemployment that officials believe
may spark unrest.  “The economic development of the country as a whole has
bypassed a large proportion of the population,” Bath, U.K.-
based risk consultancy  Maplecroft  wrote in a February report.
“With 47.7 percent of the population under the age of 14, youth
unemployment is likely to become an aggravating factor in social
discontent, leading to protest in the longer term, with the
potential for significant unrest.”  Economic Expansion  The government’s goal is to slow inflation to 8.9 percent
by the end of the year from 9.11 percent in March while
maintaining average annual growth at more than 7 percent for the
next five years, Gourgel said. The $114 billion economy is
forecast to expand 7.1 percent this year from 7.4 percent in
2012, according to the government and  budget documents .  While Angola pumped 1.8 million barrels of oil a day in
April, mostly from offshore fields operated by  Total SA (FP) ,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  BP Plc (BP/) , the capital-intensive industry accounts
for only about 1 percent of jobs, according to the  African
Economic Outlook . Unemployment has averaged 27 percent since
2007, an Outlook report showed.  Loan Guarantees  The project overseen by the  Economy Ministry  is targeting a
$900 million boost to the economy, the minister said. It
includes $100 million in loan guarantees for 70 percent of the
value granted, and a $250 million capital-risk fund that gives
the government temporary stakes in companies deemed to have
“competitive advantages,” according to ministry documents.  Small and medium-sized businesses are eligible for loans at
5 percent interest and get tax breaks, according to the
ministry. They’ll get access to credit from 20 of Angola’s 23
commercial banks. The program gives priority to investments in
agriculture, mining, construction and services such as
accountants, electricians and mechanics, government documents
show.  “Angola Invests is a very good idea,” Luis Filipe Rodrigues Lelis, head of Corporate and Investment Banking at
 Banco Angolano de Investimentos SA , Angola’s largest bank by
assets, said in an interview. “But being conservative, we had
to tell many applicants to adjust to the reality of the
economy.”  The government’s one-stop shop to set up a local business,
called  Guiche Unico da Empresa , is expanding across the country
and reducing bureaucracy of approvals from different agencies.
Retail and import-export companies are the most popular types,
Guiche director Pedro Filipe said in an interview.  “Now a company can be created in three hours and we do
about 450 a month,” Filipe said. “Five years ago we created
600 companies a year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  