-- Joplin Rebuilding After Tornado Saves on School Bonds
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-05-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/joplin-rebuilding-after-tornado-saves-on-school-bonds.html
Joplin,  Missouri , where 161 people
were killed in the deadliest single U.S. tornado in almost 60
years, is joining hurricane-ravaged East Coast towns borrowing
to rebuild while municipal yields are near  generational lows .  About 3,000 of Joplin’s 7,500 students are in temporary
classrooms as construction progresses on four schools with the
help of $62 million in general-obligation bonds the city’s
school district sold in July and last month, said Paul Barr, the
chief financial officer. The rebuilding is a critical element of
recovery after the twister on May 22, 2011, carved a six-mile
swath of destruction in the city of about 50,000, he said.  Joplin joins U.S. cities selling munis to recover from
natural disasters amid the longest tax-free rally in two
decades.  Long Beach ,  New York , is seeking permission to issue
deficit-financing bonds to mend its finances after  Hurricane
Sandy  hit in October. New Jersey Shore towns approved short-term
borrowing last year for Sandy costs. Even with the disaster, the
Joplin district’s yield penalty shrank 56 percent from July.  While some individual investors may have gotten “spooked”
by the Joplin damage, “for us, that’s where the opportunities
sometimes lie,” said  Paul Brennan , who helps manage $95 billion
in  Chicago  at Nuveen Asset Management, which bought some of the
school bonds.  April Sale  The school district of Joplin, in southwest Missouri, sold
$27 million of tax-exempt debt April 30 after issuing $35
million in July. In last month’s sale, bonds due in March 2032
were priced to yield 2.9 percent, or about 0.25 percentage point
above benchmark munis, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In July,
a segment with the same maturity yielded 3.2 percent, a spread
of about 0.57 percentage point.  The $3.7 trillion municipal market is on pace for a 10th-straight quarterly gain, the longest streak since 1993, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show.  Proceeds from Joplin’s sale came on top of $35.4 million in
estimated federal and state disaster-relief funding, $85.9
million from an estimated insurance settlement and $1.7 million
in donations for rebuilding, data from the district show.  The twister, with winds exceeding 200 miles (322
kilometers) per hour, was the deadliest single U.S. tornado
since 1953. It leveled more than 4,000 homes and 531 businesses,
according to the city.  Storm Losses  The Missouri Department of Insurance expects losses from
the storm to top $2 billion, Chris Cline, a spokesman, said in
an e-mail. As of Oct. 31, companies had paid $1.65 billion on
19,870 claims, according to data from the department.  The tornado destroyed or damaged 10 of Joplin’s 20 school
buildings, including its high school, the district said.
Officials immediately vowed to open classes on time in temporary
spaces that August, and voters approved the largest  bond issue 
in city history in April 2012, Barr said.  While Joplin could have rebuilt the schools to their
previous standards, it constructed larger, more advanced
facilities, Barr said.  “We’re leading the recovery,” Barr said in a telephone
interview. “You do have to, in the face of adversity and
tragedy, look for a silver lining and make the best of an
opportunity that you didn’t ask for.”  Opening Day  The district is spending about $200 million on construction
and repairs, Barr said. Two elementary buildings and a middle
school are to open in December, and a combined high school and
vocational technology center should be ready by August 2014, the
district said.  Because the bond proceeds weren’t needed all at once, the
district saved about $1 million in interest by selling in two
stages, Barr said.  The total interest cost for the 2012 sale was 3.39 percent,
compared with 3.53 percent for the April sale, Greg Bricker,
executive vice president of underwriter George K. Baum & Co.,
said from  Kansas City .  Standard & Poor’s  assigned an A+ rating to the bonds and a
AA+ long-term rating reflecting the district’s participation in
a Missouri direct-deposit program. State aid is transferred to a
trustee, who pays the bondholders.  State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., the largest
U.S. home and car insurer, bought the bonds. The Bloomington,
Illinois-based company made the purchase in part because it is
the largest insurer in Joplin and wanted to support the
recovery, said Jim Camoriano, a spokesman. The insurer, with
$7.6 billion in assets under management, has almost 2 million
policies in Missouri.  ‘Community Return’  “We want to invest where it makes sense, but our return is
not simply dollars and cents,” Camoriano said. “Our return is
to see the community return.”  Besides the school rebuilding, Mercy health-care system,
the city’s third-largest employer, with about 1,800 workers, is
constructing a $450 million hospital to replace one destroyed by
the tornado, said a spokeswoman, Angie Saporito.  The site, expected to open in March 2015 and funded with
capital reserves, debt and donations, will feature windows
capable of withstanding winds of 250 miles per hour, Saporito
said.  The new schools and hospital should attract professionals
and families, said Crystal Harrington, executive officer of the
Home Builders Association of Southwest Missouri.  ‘Defining Moment’  City Manager Mark Rohr, who wrote a book called “Joplin:
The Miracle of the Human Spirit,” estimated the city is about
80 percent recovered. The focus now is on a rebuilding plan that
includes planting 25,000 trees, and a five-year goal of
reversing an estimated population loss of about 5.8 percent
since the storm.  “It was a horrific thing that happened to us, but when you
lose one-third of your city and you build it back, that one-third of the city is virtually brand new,” Rohr said by phone.
“I call it the defining moment in our lives, whether we like it
or not.”  Elsewhere in the local-debt market, issuers plan to offer
about $6.5 billion in debt this week, less than the weekly
average of $6.9 billion for 2013.  New York City , which suffered billions of dollars of damage
from Sandy, is set to lead issuers next week with an $800
million general-obligation sale, its biggest borrowing this
year. The refunding debt will be offered to individuals for two
days starting May 20.  At  1.8 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis compare
with  1.98 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the two  interest rates , a gauge of relative
value between the asset classes, is about 91 percent, the lowest
since March 11. The lower the figure, the more expensive local-government bonds are when compared with federal securities. The
ratio has averaged 92 percent since 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  