-- JPMorgan Sees Yuan Band Widening in 3 Months After SAFE Rule
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-15T06:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/jpmorgan-sees-yuan-band-widening-within-3-months-after-safe-rule.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said  China  may
widen the yuan’s trading band in the next three months after the
foreign-exchange regulator announced rules to deter speculative
funds from betting on appreciation.  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange said May 5 it
would put in measures to increase monitoring of cross-border
trade flows and ordered banks to adjust currency positions so
that dollar loans are kept at a certain proportion to deposits.
Patrick Wu, head of yuan trading at JPMorgan, the largest  U.S.
bank  by assets, said the move may be part of preparations to
broaden the band.  “If SAFE widened the band without the new measure, it
would trigger more speculation,” Wu said in an interview
yesterday in  Shanghai . “However, if they introduce the measure,
it would be more helpful to push down the  yuan ’s spot level and
give SAFE more room to widen the band because corporates and
banks will have to reduce short-dollar positions.”  The government has pledged to allow more flexibility in the
exchange rate and promote freer movement of capital in and out
of the country for investment purposes. China’s State Council,
or cabinet, signaled May 6 it will propose plans this year for
yuan capital-account convertibility. The central bank last
widened the band in April 2012, to 1 percent from 0.5 percent.  Yuan Outlook  The People’s Bank of China sets a daily reference rate
against the dollar around 9:15 a.m. in Shanghai. The yuan has
been within 0.1 percent of the upper limit on most days since
October. The fixing was weakened 0.06 percent to 6.2070 today.
Wu said the  reference rate  may strengthen to 6.10 by year-end.  “There will be fewer speculative foreign-exchange trades
in the onshore market because banks have limitations in making
loans for corporates to go long on the yuan and short on
dollars,” said Wu. “The whole outlook for the yuan still
remains unchanged.”  The yuan weakened 0.06 percent to 6.1462 per dollar as of
2:22 p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. It touched 6.1307 on May 9, the strongest level
since the government unified official and market exchange rates
at the end of 1993. A long position is a bet that a currency
will appreciate while a short position anticipates a decline.  China’s currency has appreciated 1.5 percent in the last
three months, the third-best performance among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the  Mexican peso 
and  Malaysia ’s ringgit.  Around June  Widening of the band is likely in June or shortly after,
Credit Agricole CIB strategist Dariusz Kowalczyk wrote in a
research note on May 7. With the new foreign-exchange position
limits for banks, policy makers were likely trying to reduce
speculative capital and prepare ground for foreign-exchange
regime relaxation, Hong Kong-based Kowalczyk said.  The band may be expanded around June, before the U.S.-China
Strategic Economic Dialogue in  Washington  during the week of
July 8-12, Bank of America Merrill Lynch strategist Christy Tan
in  Singapore  wrote in a report on April 24. The PBOC may widen
the band against the dollar to 1.5 percent or 2 percent, while
1.5 percent is more likely, Tan said.  China is testing the yuan’s  exchange-rate  equilibrium and
may soon double its trading band, Shanghai Securities News
reported May 13, citing people it didn’t identify.  A widening is likely “in the near future,” People’s Bank
of China Deputy Governor Yi Gang said in April. China will push
ahead with opening its capital account because current economic
conditions are favorable, Yi said.  One-year implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure
of exchange-rate swings used to price options, rose nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 2.43 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest since Jan. 15.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  