-- JPMorgan Asset Plans U.K.’s First Convertible Investment Trust
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-05-15T14:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/jpmorgan-asset-plans-u-k-s-first-convertible-investment-trust.html
JPMorgan Asset Management, the money
management unit of the  biggest U.S. bank  by assets, said it’s
starting the U.K.’s first investment trust dedicated to global
convertible bonds.  The JPMorgan Global Convertibles Income Fund will be set up
as a closed-end fund, which has a fixed number of shares,
targeting a 4.5 percent yield through dividend income and
capital growth, according to Antony Vallee, the unit’s London-based head of convertible bonds. The closed-end structure will
add flexibility to the investment strategy by avoiding the need
to hold cash and the most liquid securities to meet potential
withdrawals, he said.  Convertible debt combines a bond with an option to buy a
preset amount of stock, allowing lenders to share in gains from
the growth or revival of borrowers while offering the same
protection of capital as a traditional bond. New issuance, which
soared to more than $10 billion in the first quarter, a record
for the period in  Europe , stalled in recent weeks as improving
economic indicators in some regions encourage chief financial
officers and other managers to view their stock as undervalued.  “Few CFOs in the world are happy to issue convertibles
because of the dilution,” Vallee said at a  presentation
today. “Right now they’re looking at the U.S. and  Japan  and
expecting that equities will go up. When companies need some
money they will come back.”  The new fund plans to raise at least 100 million pounds
($152 million) and its size is capped at 300 million pounds. The
directors plan to prevent its value falling to a discount of
more than 5 percent to net asset value by buying back stock
where necessary.  The shares of the investment trust are expected to start
trading by the middle of next month, according to the term
sheet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  