-- JPMorgan Sues Portugal-Owned Companies to Enforce Swaps
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   N i c h o l a s   D u n b a r
-- 2013-05-15T14:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/jpmorgan-sues-portugal-owned-companies-to-enforce-metro-swaps.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  sued state-owned
Portuguese companies running the Lisbon and Oporto metro rail
services, as well as the country’s strategic oil reserves, to
enforce derivative contracts worth at least 455 million euros
($587 million).  JPMorgan filed the lawsuits in London on April 26, the same
day  Portugal  made a deal with other banks to reduce its 3
billion-euro exposure to derivatives entered into by state-owned
firms. The government failed to reach an agreement with JPMorgan
and Banco Santander SA’s Portuguese unit, and said it would sue
to defend its interests.  “We were forced to take protective measures in the English
courts” following the April announcement by Portugal, JPMorgan
spokesman  Brian Marchiony  said in an e-mail. The New York-based
bank remains open to negotiations and the contracts aren’t in
default, he said.  Banks are turning to U.K. courts to resolve swaps disputes
with local governments and state-owned companies that say they
lost money on complex derivatives. More than half a dozen
Italian municipalities are embroiled in legal disputes with
investment banks in London.  Maria Luis  Albuquerque , Portugal’s secretary of state for
treasury and finance, described the country’s hedging contracts
as “toxic” with “elevated risks,” when she announced the
April deal. An official at Portugal’s finance ministry declined
to comment.  Santander Suits  Santander’s Portugal-based unit also sued the Oporto and
Lisbon metro and bus companies in  London  on May 10. Peter
Greiff, a Santander spokesman in  Madrid , didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment.  Metropolitano de Lisboa had at least 455 million euros of
swap contracts with the JPMorgan at the end of 2011, as measured
by notional value, according to the company’s annual report. The
disclosed JPMorgan contracts had a negative value of 221 million
euros, Metropolitano de Lisboa said.  JPMorgan’s Marchiony said in an e-mailed statement the
figures weren’t accurate and declined to comment further. A
Metro de Lisboa spokesman declined to comment beyond the
company’s filings.  Metro Porto had 120 million euros of outstanding loans with
JPMorgan at the end of 2011 according to its annual report,
which didn’t disclose details of derivatives held with the bank.
The Strategic Oil Reserve Fund didn’t disclose details of its
derivative counterparties.  The cases are: JP Morgan Securities PLC v. Metropolitano de
Lisboa EP,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division ,
Commercial Court, 13-607; JP Morgan Chase Bank NA v. Entidade
Gestora De Reservas Estrategicas De Produtos, High Court of
Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial Court, 13-606; and
JP Morgan Chase Bank NA & Anr v. Metro Do Porto SA, High Court
of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial Court, 13-603.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Dunbar in London at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  