-- Julius Baer Assets Climb 16% as Merrill Businesses Absorbed
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-05-15T08:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/julius-baer-assets-climb-16-as-merrill-businesses-absorbed-1-.html
Julius Baer  Group Ltd., the third-largest Swiss wealth manager, said client assets rose 16 percent
in the first four months of the year after integrating Merrill
Lynch businesses acquired from Bank of America Corp. last year.  Assets under management increased to 220 billion Swiss
francs ($228 billion) from 189.3 billion francs at the end of
December, the Zurich-based bank said in a  statement  today. That
included 11 billion francs from Merrill Lynch’s Swiss wealth
unit and 13 billion francs from businesses in  Uruguay ,  Chile ,
 Monaco  and Luxembourg.  Julius Baer expects to absorb Merrill’s Singapore,  Hong
Kong  and U.K. operations later this year as part of a deal that
may boost assets by as much as 72 billion francs by 2015. While
gross margins, which reflect how much the bank makes in revenue
on managed assets, rebounded with increased client activity, the
formerly unprofitable Merrill business crimped that improvement.  “The trends are positive,” said  Andrew Stimpson , an
analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in London, who rates the
shares market perform. “Still, the growth in managed assets and
the recovery in gross margin aren’t as strong as we were
expecting given what we saw at other Swiss banks in the first
quarter. It’s a slightly disappointing statement.”  On Track  Julius Baer rose 0.1 percent to 38.78 francs as of 9:55
a.m. in Zurich, extending the stock’s gain to 20 percent this
year. That gave the firm a market value of 8.7 billion francs.  The gross margin was 98 basis points during the first four
months of the year, or 99 basis points stripping out the Merrill
business, Julius Baer said. That compares with 94 basis points
in the second half of last year. A basis point is one hundredth
of a percentage point.  We believe the “acquisition is on track but assume margins
will be under pressure going forward as well as net new money,”
 Teresa Nielsen , an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG in Zurich who
recommends selling the stock, wrote in a note to clients today.  Net new money for 2013 will be close to the lower end of
the bank’s 4 percent to 6 percent target range, as European
cross-border clients make self-declarations to tax authorities
in their resident countries and as the firm implements
withholding-tax agreements negotiated by  Switzerland  with the
U.K. and  Austria , Julius Baer said.  Julius Baer’s cost-income ratio improved to below 70
percent in the first four months of the year, from 71.6 percent
in the second half of 2012. Merrill Lynch’s non-U.S.
international wealth management units recorded a pretax loss in
2011 with a cost-to-income ratio of 114 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  