-- Keller Jumps to Six-Year High on U.S. Construction: London Mover
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-05-15T15:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/keller-jumps-to-six-year-high-on-u-s-construction-london-mover.html
Keller Group Plc (KLR) , the U.K. builder
that drilled foundations for the Chicago Trump Tower, rose to
the highest price since 2007 as a recovery in U.S. construction
provided more profit than it had forecast, prompting analysts to
raise their share predictions.  Keller gained 7.7 percent to 934 pence at the close of
trading today in  London , for the third-biggest gain among stocks
in the FTSE 350 Index. Jefferies raised its  target price  28
percent today to 1,050 pence, while Numis Securities and
Investec both boosted their predictions to 1,000 pence.  At the Suncoast unit in the U.S., “revenue and profit in
the year to date are well ahead of both last year and budget”
because of residential construction growth, Keller said today in
a statement. In  Canada , it expects “significant business
benefits” from cooperation between Geo-Foundations Contractors
Inc., acquired in January, and the Hayward Baker unit.  “The general message is that difficult markets are no
worse than previously and strong growth areas have improved,”
Chris Millington, an analyst at Numis, said today in a note.  U.S. housing prices rose 9.3 percent in February from a
year earlier, the fastest pace since May 2006. The recovery is
“key for European building materials companies” to perform
well and reduce debt this year, Moody’s Investors Service said
in a May 8 report.  In  Europe , there has been “no further deterioration in
market conditions since the start of the year,” Keller said,
though economic difficulties are still holding back a
construction recovery.  Of nine analysts who report their recommendations to
Bloomberg, six advise buying the shares, while three have a hold
recommendation. Keller’s stock has more than doubled in the past
12 months, valuing the London-based company at 601 million
pounds ($913 million.) Share  trading  today was more than double
the three-month daily average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  