-- Kenneth Heebner Buys Goldman Sachs, Hertz; Sells BofA, Herbalife
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-05-15T17:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/kenneth-heebner-buys-goldman-sachs-hertz-sells-bofa-herbalife.html
Kenneth Heebner, who once ranked as
America’s No. 1 stock picker, took new positions in Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) , while selling
out of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)   Heebner’s Capital Growth Management LP purchased 843,000
shares of Goldman Sachs during the first quarter, based on a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The  money
manager  bought 4.9 million shares of auto-rental chain Hertz
Global. Capital Growth sold $152.1 million of Bank of America
shares and $110.2 million of Herbalife, a marketer of
nutritional supplements, in the three months ended March 31.  Heebner’s  CGM Focus Fund (CGMFX)  topped all diversified U.S. stock
mutual funds in the decade through 2007 and has returned 22
percent this year, beating 99 percent of its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Boston-based fund’s assets
plunged to $1.5 billion at the end of October from the June 2008
peak of $10.3 billion, as it lost an annual 8.9 percent in the
past five years, the data show.  Goldman Sachs has surged 22 percent this year compared with
the 16 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The Wall
Street bank, which generates the highest percentage of sales
from trading, reported last month that revenue from that
business fell more than its rivals during the first quarter.  Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. lender by revenue,
has climbed 16 percent in 2013. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company said in April mortgage banking and trading marred
first-quarter results and slowed the company’s turnaround.  Hertz, the largest publicly traded U.S. rental-car
operator, is awaiting U.S. antitrust approval for its
 acquisition  of Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group. Shares have
surged 54 percent this year.  Heebner’s firm added to its stake in Herbalife in the
fourth quarter when shares plunged 31 percent after hedge-fund
manager  Bill Ackman  accused the company of operating a pyramid
scheme. Herbalife has surged 37 percent in 2013.  Capital Growth also exited positions in Ford Motor Co. and
Foot Locker Inc. during the first quarter. The firm also bought
homebuilder NVR Inc. and BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest
asset manager. While Heebner’s firm remained bullish on housing
stocks, with Lennar Corp. and DR Horton Inc. among the five
biggest holdings, the biggest decreases in market value was to
PulteGroup Inc., the largest U.S.  homebuilder  by revenue.  The money manager’s stake in financial companies remained
the biggest allocation out of 10 industries. Citigroup Inc. and
Morgan Stanley remained the firm’s two largest holdings,
accounting for 6 percent and 5.8 percent of its investments,
respectively. The firm also boosted its ownership of industrial
and energy shares, while trimming holdings of consumer
discretionary and staples stocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  