-- Krawcheck to Acquire 85 Broads From Ex-Goldman Executive
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-05-15T16:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/krawcheck-to-buy-85-broads-from-former-goldman-executive-hanson.html
Sallie Krawcheck , the former senior
executive at  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , agreed to
buy 85 Broads, the global network with 30,000 members that
promotes women as business leaders.  Krawcheck is buying the firm from founder Janet Hanson, a
former executive of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., according to a
 statement  on the 85 Broads website. Hanson will keep a stake and
become chairman emeritus, according to the statement, which
didn’t disclose terms.  The deal puts Krawcheck at the head of her own company
after stints in the top ranks of the nation’s biggest lenders.
Since then, Krawcheck has turned the spotlight on research that
shows increased participation by women improves shareholder
returns and helps the economy.  “For most of my career, I tried to avoid the topic of
being a woman in business, vaguely concerned that talking too
much about it would hold me back in some way,” Krawcheck wrote
on her  LinkedIn page . “But I’ve been thinking about it over the
past year ... a lot.” Krawcheck said “the research and
business case for the economic advancement of women is so
compelling, in a world deeply in need of greater economic
prosperity.”  Bigger Role  85 Broads, which began on  Wall Street  and expanded to
colleges and universities, arranges networking events for
professionals and students, often featuring women with leading
roles in their fields. It operates more than 40 regional
chapters and campus clubs in at least 130 countries, according
to its  website . The name is derived from the address of Goldman
Sachs’s former New York City headquarters.  Krawcheck, 48, is among corporate leaders advocating for
increased involvement for women in executive roles. Sheryl Sandberg, chief operating officer of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , has been
promoting her book “Lean In,” which encourages women to expand
their roles in the workplace.  Warren Buffett , chairman and chief
executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said this month
that women need to pursue more recognition for what they
accomplish.  Krawcheck has become a regular publisher on  LinkedIn
Corp. (LNKD) ’s website, writing about women’s role in finance and
lessons she learned from her career on Wall Street.  “She has been spending considerable time over the last
year or two really focusing on what’s happening with women,”
Hanson said today in a telephone interview. “What I really
loved about her more than anything, she’s a straight shooter.
Her whole being oozes authenticity.”  Banking Career  Krawcheck was Citigroup’s chief financial officer and head
of strategy, and later ran the New York-based bank’s  wealth-management  division until late 2008, when she was replaced by
Michael L. Corbat, who is now CEO.  She joined  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
in August 2009 to run wealth management and oversaw more than
15,000 advisers under the firm’s Merrill Lynch brand. She was
ousted amid a management shakeup in September 2011 and granted a
$6 million severance package.  In the U.S., women hold 14 percent of  executive officer 
positions and 17 percent of board seats, according to Catalyst
Inc., an organization that publishes research on women in
business. Companies with more women on the boards have better
financial performance than those with fewer women, according to
a July 2012  report  by Catalyst.  Hanson, 60, left Goldman Sachs after almost 14 years in
1993 and founded the women’s networking firm in 1997.  “It’s time for me to pass the baton to a younger person
who has energy,” Hanson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  