-- Kuwait-Led Group in Takeover Approach for U.K. Water Firm
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-05-15T15:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/kuwait-led-group-in-takeover-approach-for-u-k-water-firm.html
Severn Trent Plc (SVT) , the U.K.’s second-largest publicly traded water company, rejected a takeover
approach from Kuwait’s sovereign wealth fund and a Canadian
infrastructure investor.  The proposal “completely fails to recognize the existing
and potential value of Severn Trent,” the company said in a
statement. Severn Trent, which supplies water to 7.7 million
people, has a market value of 5 billion pounds ($7.6 billion).  The Kuwait Investment Office, Borealis Infrastructure
Management Inc. and Britain’s Universities Superannuation Scheme
approached the utility about a possible takeover, they said
yesterday in a statement. The group has until 5 p.m. on June 11
to announce a formal intention to make an offer or that they
won’t, according to U.K. takeover rules.  “I think this is not the end of this and we will see a
higher bid for sure,” said Dimitra Christakou, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “There is strong interest from
investors in the water sector recently” because it offers
stable returns linked to inflation, she said today in an e-mail.  Severn Trent shares, which jumped the most in 4 1/2 years
yesterday, rose 0.6 percent to 2,090 pence today in London.
They’ve gained 33 percent this year.  Pennon Group Plc (PNN)  and United
Utilities Plc, Britain’s second-biggest publicly traded water
utility, were almost unchanged in London trading.  Foreign Ownership  A takeover would make Severn Trent, which takes its name
from two of Britain’s biggest rivers, the latest U.K. utility
under foreign ownership after buyouts including Yorkshire Water
Services Ltd. and South Staffordshire Plc.  Thames Water Utilities Ltd., with 14 million customers in
the London area, was bought in 2006 by Kemble Water Holdings
Ltd., with investors including Macquarie Group Ltd.’s European
Infrastructure Funds.  Borealis Infrastructure co-owns the U.K.’s largest ports
operator, Associated British Ports. Borealis is the
infrastructure unit of Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement
System, or Omers. Omers, based in Toronto, is  Canada ’s sixth-biggest pension fund manager.  The companies approached the board of Severn Trent with a
view of making a possible cash offer, Borealis said in a
statement yesterday.  Takeover Talk  U.K. water companies have been the subject of recent
takeover talk. The Daily Mail last month reported state-owned
Abu Dhabi Investment Authority was considering a bid for Pennon
while the Sunday Times said United Utilities hired Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. amid speculation of a possible takeover deal.  “This latest approach highlights an emerging trend of
foreign investment in the British water industry,” said
Alasdair Wilson, a water analyst at London-based BNEF.  The Financial News website reported May 13 that  Kuwait 
Investment Authority formed a group for a 5.3 billion-pound bid
for Severn Trent, citing people with knowledge of the matter.
That would be a premium to the regulated asset base of about 30
percent, in line with historical transactions in the industry,
said Ashley Thomas, a London-based analyst at Societe Generale
SA.  The approach comes at a time the British water regulator
Ofwat is consulting on prices water and sewerage companies must
deliver for the five years from 2015 to 2020, with final prices
to be published next year.  Liberum Capital Ltd. analyst Peter Atherton said in a note
it was “surprising” for a potential bid to be made in the
third year of the five-year regulatory period. A bidder would
take “considerable regulatory risk” if it pays a 35 percent
premium to regulatory capital value at this point, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  