-- N.Y. Assembly Shielded Lopez From Sex Claims, Report Says
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-05-15T20:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/n-y-assembly-shielded-lopez-from-harassment-claims-report-says.html
New York  Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver was more interested in protecting his chamber than female
employees of fellow Democrat Vito Lopez who accused the Brooklyn
lawmaker of sexual harassment, a special prosecutor said.  Daniel Donovan, the Staten Island district attorney, said
in a seven-page report today that he won’t file criminal
charges. Donovan, a Republican, was appointed special prosecutor
in the investigation, which coincided with a similar probe by
the state ethics commission. Both began in September after
Lopez, 71, was stripped of his committee chairmanship and Silver
said the Assembly had secretly settled harassment claims with
two female employees for $103,000.  “Donovan’s decision not to seek criminal charges against
Assemblyman Vito Lopez is a just and welcome end to this sad
saga,” Gerald Lefcourt, Lopez’s attorney, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Six weeks after Lopez signed the settlement in June, which
included a confidentiality agreement he pushed for, two other
female staff members complained of harassment to the attorney
representing the Assembly majority, which is led by Silver, 69,
according to a report by the Joint Commission on Public Ethics,
which was also released today. The two other women were hired to
replace the pair involved in the settlement.  Mitigating Damages  “During the mediation and negotiation of the settlement,
the chief concern of those in the Assembly was mitigating the
Assembly’s damages,” Donovan wrote. “That goal outweighed any
interest in investigating or disciplining Assembly Member Lopez
or in preventing similar occurrences in the future.”  The women who won the settlement had also filed complaints
with the majority’s attorney in December 2011 and January 2012,
according to the ethics commission. Those complaints weren’t
referred to the Assembly Ethics Committee, a move Silver
endorsed, the commission report said.  In July, when the two other employees stepped forward,
their complaints were sent to the ethics committee, which then
removed Lopez from his role as head of the Assembly Housing
Committee.  Resignation Call  Michael Whyland, a Silver spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement that the speaker, who represents Lower  Manhattan , is
calling for Lopez to resign.  “It was a mistake not to immediately refer the initial
complaints to the Assembly Committee on Ethics and Guidance, one
that will not be repeated,” Whyland said. “The Speaker is
deeply committed to ensuring that all our employees are treated
with respect and dignity.”  That wasn’t evident in this case, the National Organization
for Women, the largest U.S. group working to advance women’s
rights, said today.  “The Assembly engaged in a shameful cover-up at great
expense to all women who live and work in New York State,” NOW
said in a statement. “It’s clear that neither the public
interest, nor the interests of justice, were served.”  Deputy Chief Administration Judge for New York City Courts
Fern Fisher appointed Donovan after Brooklyn District Attorney
Charles Hynes sought an order relieving him from responsibility
in the case because of his political ties to Lopez.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  