-- Najib Cabinet Rewards Base as Chinese Sidelined: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-05-16T07:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/najib-cabinet-rewards-base-as-chinese-sidelined-southeast-asia.html
Malaysia  Prime Minister Najib Razak
stocked his Cabinet with party stalwarts ahead of a leadership
test after a poor showing by his coalition’s ethnic Chinese
partners led to its narrowest election win since independence.  Najib tapped leaders of his ruling United Malays Nasional
Organisation for key positions before party polls later this
year that will determine whether he stays on as prime minister.
He also gave posts to the heads of Malaysia’s biggest bank, a
corruption watchdog and a Hindu rights group. Two of the new
line-up are Chinese, compared with more than a dozen previously.  “The Cabinet reflects a prime minister concerned about
retaining the premiership and the presidency of UMNO,” said
Edmund Terence Gomez, a professor at the  University of Malaya  in
 Kuala Lumpur . “I don’t see any move in the direction to talk
about reconciliation and transformation and inclusivity in this
cabinet.”  Najib’s coalition retained power in the May 5 election even
after losing a majority of the popular vote for the first time
since 1969, which the prime minister attributed to a loss of
support from Chinese voters. Besides an ethnic divide, his
administration faces a weakening economy, with Malaysia’s growth
slowing to less than 5 percent for the first in seven quarters.  “Slower growth was led by a contraction in exports and
weak government spending,” Chua Hak Bin, an economist with Bank
of America Corp., wrote in a note. “We had expected stronger
 government spending  in the lead up to elections, and slightly
stronger investment spending.”  GDP Misses  Gross domestic product  rose 4.1 percent in the three months
through March from a year earlier, after a revised 6.5 percent
gain in the previous quarter, the central bank said yesterday.
That’s lower than all 22 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .
The monetary authority kept its full-year growth forecast at as
much as 6 percent.  The ringgit declined 0.3 percent to 3.0124 per dollar as of
3:01 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur after reaching 3.0176 earlier, the
weakest level since May 6, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It’s the second-best performer this year among the 11
most actively traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg, up
1.5 percent.  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index, which has
underperformed benchmarks in the  Philippines ,  Indonesia  and
 Thailand  this year, fell 0.8 percent to 1,769.61, poised for its
biggest loss since May 3.  Najib’s coalition won 133 seats, topping the 89 seats
claimed by  Anwar Ibrahim ’s three-party opposition, which
captured 51 percent of the popular vote. Anwar has said he’ll
challenge about 30 seats, enough to swing the result, and has
held rallies in different states after the election.  MCA Vote  Ethnic Chinese parties in the government won nine seats
compared with 23 in the 2008 election. Chua Soi Lek, president
of the Malaysian Chinese Association, said on May 6 the party
wouldn’t take up its allotment of Cabinet posts.  Najib said he has reserved the transport minister’s
position for the party in case it changes its mind when it meets
to select a new leader.  “We are a balanced cabinet and the transport ministry will
be given to MCA once they have decided,” Najib said in
Putrajaya, the country’s administrative capital.  UMNO held about half the seats in a Cabinet with almost 60
members. Najib remained finance minister, while Muhyiddin Yassin
kept his posts as deputy prime minister and education minister.
Ahmad Zahid Hamidi, one of three UMNO vice presidents, moved to
home affairs from defense, swapping jobs with Hishammuddin
Hussein.  Facebook Call  Several key UMNO members joined the Cabinet, including
party Secretary-General Tengku Adnan Tengku Mansor, youth chief
Khairy Jamaluddin -- a son-in-law of former Prime Minister
Abdullah Ahmad Badawi -- and Supreme Council member Shahidan
Kassim, who in 2010 called for Facebook to be blocked if users
posted insults to Malaysia’s leaders and Islam.  “Over the past months and years, divisions have opened up
in Malaysian society,” Najib said in a statement yesterday.
“Now it is time for all of us, in government and beyond, to put
the bitterness behind us, and work towards national
reconciliation - and national unity.”  Ethnic Chinese account for about a quarter of the
population, while Malays and indigenous groups make up about 60
percent. Najib faced voters for the first time as leader after
taking over mid-term four years ago.  One of the ethnic Chinese members new to the cabinet is
Paul Low, president of the local arm of  Transparency
International . Malaysia was ranked last among 30 nations
surveyed in the Berlin-based advocacy group’s 2012  Bribe Payers
Index .  Maybank’s CEO  Najib appointed six ethnic Indians, including P. Waytha
Moorthy, chairman of the Hindu Rights Action Force. The non-governmental organization, known as Hindraf, staged street
protests before the 2008 election demanding an end to alleged
racial discrimination of ethnic Indians.  Abdul Wahid Omar, chief executive officer of  Malayan
Banking Bhd. (MAY) , is the only new face from the private sector. He
joins Idris Jala, who formerly ran Malaysian Airline System
Bhd., in overseeing Najib’s plans to transform the economy.  “I look forward to applying the experience I have gained
throughout my career in the private sector for the benefit of
Malaysia,” Abdul Wahid said in an e-mailed statement.  Since taking charge in April 2009 during a recession, Najib
has opened up more industries to foreign investors and
implemented a minimum wage. A return to power allows the premier
to advance his so-called economic transformation program aimed
at drawing $444 billion in investments this decade in projects
including mass rail and oil storage.  Net exports of goods and services slumped 36.4 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier, after falling 9.3 percent
in the final quarter of 2012, yesterday’s report showed.  Total consumption rose 6.1 percent in the January-to-March
period from a year ago after climbing 4.9 percent in the earlier
quarter, it showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  