-- National Fraternities Face More Legal Risk After Ruling
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-05-15T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/national-fraternities-face-more-legal-risk-after-ruling.html
A national fraternity with chapters
on more than 125 campuses must stand trial over the drinking
death of a  Wabash College  freshman, an  Indiana  court said in a
 ruling  that may force the organizations to take more
responsibility for misconduct at chapter houses.  The Indiana Court of Appeals on May 8 reinstated a lawsuit
against Delta Tau Delta by the family of Johnny Dupree Smith.
Smith, 18, was found dead on Oct. 5, 2008, his blood alcohol
level at five times the limit for legal intoxication. He had
passed out during “Pledge Family Drink Night,” according to
the complaint in the wrongful-death case.  The ruling is the first by an appellate court in Indiana,
where many fraternities are based, that a national fraternity
must face a trial for injury or death at a chapter house,
Stephen Wagner, a lawyer for Smith’s parents, said.  Unless reversed on appeal, the decision may compel national
fraternities “to re-double their efforts to protect all their
members” from injury, said Robert Heidt, who teaches negligence
law at  Indiana University ’s Maurer School of Law in Bloomington.
“If every court in the country did this, I bet it would change
the structure of fraternities.”  The ruling comes as Greek life rebounds in the U.S., with
membership up 29 percent since 2005. Death and injury from
fraternity-related hazing, drinking and partying are also
climbing. Since 2005, at least 54 students across the U.S. have
died and six were paralyzed in incidents connected with such
activities, according to a Bloomberg analysis of lawsuits, news
accounts and interviews.  A Choice?  Beset by lawsuits claiming negligent supervision, national
fraternities have argued in court that they’re not responsible
for misconduct at their local affiliates because they don’t
actively supervise them. One fraternity lawyer recently told
national groups that most state courts won’t hold them liable if
they’re “predominantly passive” in their supervision of
affiliates’ “daily activities.”  Last week’s ruling, if upheld, may make it harder for
national fraternities to take that middle-of-the-road approach,
said  Donald Gjerdingen , who also teaches torts at Maurer.
Instead, national fraternities will have to decide whether to
supervise fully or not at all, he said.  “You can imagine the scenario where the fraternity says
we’re going to take these things on,” said Gjerdingen. “Or
they’ll say, ‘It’s not worth it -- we leave it up to the
local’” chapters to supervise its members.  Men’s School  The lawsuit also names Wabash College, an all-male
institution of 900 students 48 miles northwest of Indianapolis,
and the local fraternity chapter. It claims Delta Tau Delta,
which is based in Fishers, Indiana, and Crawfordsville, Indiana-based Wabash encouraged hazing and excessive drinking.  According to the complaint, Smith, who was from Tucson,
 Arizona , attended a chapter party where new initiates were told
there would be “an abundance of alcohol.” After drinking beer
and vodka, he was unable to walk, could barely talk and fell
down a stairwell, according to the complaint.  Left on a mattress in an upstairs bedroom, Smith was placed
on his side “so he wouldn’t choke on his vomit,” according to
court papers. He was found dead the next morning.  The appeals court detailed how  Delta Tau Delta  set rules,
monitored and punished its local chapter for hazing, drinking
and other wrongdoing. The court said jurors at a trial must
determine whether the fraternity had assumed a “duty to
protect” Smith, and then breached the duty.  “Through its chapter consultants and chapter advisors,
Delta Tau Delta remained apprised of the daily activities of
their local chapters,” a three-judge panel said. “Not only
were chapter advisors required to report conduct violations,
they also were responsible to ensure the local chapter complied
with any enforcement and corrective mechanisms.”  ‘No Involvement’  The appellate court didn’t rule on the merits of the case
in reinstating claims, dismissed by a lower court last year,
against Delta Tau Delta.  Kevin Schiferl, Delta Tau Delta’s lawyer, said in an
interview that he hasn’t decided whether to appeal the decision
to the state  Supreme Court . The national fraternity “had no
involvement in this incident,” he said.  Since 2005, three student deaths have been associated with
local affiliates of Delta Tau Delta, which was founded 150 years
ago. The fraternity and a related charitable foundation had
revenue of $5.5 million in 2011. A fraternity spokesman didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on the ruling.  Jim Amidon, a spokesman for Wabash, declined to comment.  The ruling is controlling only in Indiana. Plaintiffs
injured in other states may try to sue in Indiana if a
fraternity is based there, Heidt said.  ‘Message Sent’  Heidt , who was critical of the ruling, said it may drive
national fraternities to abandon oversight of their chapters.  “In a way, the message sent by this is that national
organizations should make no effort at enforcing their
guidelines,” he said.  Separately the Indiana Supreme Court is reviewing a case in
which a national fraternity was found not responsible for what a
student said was hazing at another local chapter at Wabash.
Gjerdingen said he expected the state Supreme Court to review
the Smith case if Delta Tau Delta asks it to do so.  The case is Smith v. Delta Tau Delta, 54A01-1204-CT-169,
Court of Appeals, Indiana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  