-- Kings Suitors, NBA Aim to Close Sacramento Deal in Next Few Days
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-05-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/nba-owners-reject-seattle-bid-for-kings-to-move-from-sacramento.html
National Basketball Association
Commissioner  David Stern  and a group of suitors assembled by
Sacramento Mayor  Kevin Johnson  will try to persuade the Maloof
family to complete a sale of the Kings within the next few days.  The group’s $525 million offer, which would be a record
price for an NBA team, is the only bid remaining after team
owners yesterday voted 22-8 to block the Kings from moving to
Seattle. The decision ended a $625 million bid from a group led
by Valiant Capital founder Chris Hansen that included  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer .  Johnson said his group -- which includes Vivek Ranadive, a
 Golden State Warriors  part-owner and the founder of  Tibco
Software Inc. (TIBX)  -- two days ago placed in escrow the purchase
amount while a final sale agreement is negotiated. George Maloof
said after yesterday’s vote in  Dallas  that he doesn’t feel any
pressure to sell the team his family has owned since July 1999.  “It is my expectation that we’ll be able to make a deal
with the Maloofs and the Ranadive group to transfer title of the
team in Sacramento,” Stern said at a news conference yesterday.
“It’s not a certainty, but we’re going to work on that
result.”  While the Maloofs have said throughout the process that
their preference was to sell to the Hansen group, the Kings
owners have never said they won’t sell to his investors, Johnson
said at a news conference last night. Lawyers for the Maloofs
and bidders have been in talks for a few weeks, Johnson said.  New Arena  “I feel pretty confident that we can get something done in
the next few days,” Ranadive said in a news conference. “We
can get this done very quickly.”  The  Sacramento  bid includes a plan to build a new $448
million arena downtown in  California ’s capital city. The Maloofs
reached a deal with Sacramento in February 2012 to build a new
arena, only to have the accord fall through within two months.  “We’re going to deliver because it’s bigger than
basketball,” Johnson, a former NBA player, told reporters
yesterday. “We’ve got a chance to transform our downtown.”  Yesterday’s vote by the NBA’s Board of Governors came after
a 12-member panel of team owners recommended unanimously on
April 29 that the NBA turn down Hansen’s bid.  The Maloofs reached an agreement in January with Hansen to
sell the Kings for $525 million and relocate the franchise to
Seattle, which lost its team in 2008 when the SuperSonics ended
their 41-year stay by moving to  Oklahoma City  and becoming the
Thunder.  Increased Bid  Hansen’s group increased its offer to $550 million after
Ranadive’s group matched the bid. The Seattle group last week
again boosted its bid to $625 million to “further demonstrate
the extent of our commitment to bring basketball back to
Seattle,” Hansen said at the time.  “Our day will come,” Hansen said in a statement after
yesterday’s vote, “and when it does it will just be that much
sweeter for the struggle.”  Stern and  Adam Silver , who is due to become NBA
commissioner on Feb. 1, said they may look at expanding the
league beyond 30 teams after a new television deal is
negotiated, in about a year.  “We’ve never wavered from our desire to return to
Seattle,” Silver said in a news conference. “We fully expect
we will return there one day.”  The record for an NBA team sale is $450 million, which Joe Lacob and  Peter Guber  spent to buy the Golden State Warriors in
2010.  Backup Deal  The  Associated Press  reported three days ago that the
Maloof family had a backup deal with the Seattle group that
would allow Hansen to purchase at least 20 percent of the
Maloofs’ ownership stake at a valuation of $600 million.  While the Maloofs would retain majority ownership and
continue to run the team in Sacramento, the  Seattle  group would
hold the right to purchase a controlling stake in the franchise
within two years, AP said. Hansen’s group would still need
approval from other NBA owners to become limited partners.  The Kings franchise began in 1948 in Rochester,  New York ,
as the Royals; moved to Cincinnati in 1958; became the Kansas
City-Omaha Kings from 1972 to 1975, and was the Kansas City
Kings from 1976 to 1985 before moving to Sacramento. The team’s
only NBA title was in 1951.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  