-- Netflix Shares Rise to Highest Since August 2011
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-05-15T20:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/netflix-rises-to-highest-since-2011-on-margin-target.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the dominant
subscription video-streaming service, rose to its highest since
August 2011 after saying its revival of the cult TV show
“Arrested Development” could help second-quarter results.  The exclusive program, which becomes available starting May
26 after it was dropped by the  Fox network , “might have an
impact” on the company’s financial performance, Chief Financial
Officer  David Wells  said at a JPMorgan Chase & Co. conference in
Boston today.  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos , California,  rose  4 percent to
$243.40 at the close in New York, its highest level since Aug.
15, 2011. The shares have more than doubled this year.  Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  has positioned
Netflix as the undisputed leader in online video, recovering
momentum he lost two years ago after pricing and product
missteps, by adding original shows and exclusive studio deals.
The company aims to widen its gross margin, the percentage of
sales remaining after product costs, by an average of 100 basis
points quarterly, Wells also said today.  Netflix is reviving “Arrested Development,” the comedy
show that was canceled by Fox in 2006, as it bets on original
programming to fend off competitors like  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   “We’re excited about it, but it’s a bit of a wild card,”
Wells said of the new series.  The company’s service accounted for almost a third of
tablet-video viewing in the U.S. in March, according to
researcher NPD Group Inc. Netflix dominates online viewing
through home networks in North America, accounting for 32.3
percent of prime-time  Internet traffic ,  Sandvine Inc. , a network
services and research company, said in a report yesterday.  Original Shows  Netflix finished the first quarter ending in March with
29.2 million domestic subscribers. In April, the company
forecast new U.S. subscribers would increase by as much as
880,000 in the current quarter. The period is typically slower
for U.S. subscriber sign-ups, Wells said.  The company charges $7.99 a month for its mix of TV reruns,
old movies and original shows, with a policy that lets family
and friends share one account. As many as 10 million people
watch the service without paying, by sharing passwords,  Michael Pachter , a Wedbush Securities analyst in Los Angeles, has
estimated.  Analysts have suggested Netflix might start offering a new
range of plans, including individual accounts, surcharges for
additional users or some combination, to increase revenue and
margins.  “Our observation and our view is that password sharing is
not as large as has been floated out there,” Wells said today.  Netflix in the current quarter  forecasts  net profit of $14
million to $29 million, or 23 cents to 48 cents a share. That
compares with analysts’ projections of 38 cents a share, the
average of 25 estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  