-- Nigeria’s UBA Sees Up to 40% Loan Growth for Oil, Power Projects
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2013-05-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/nigeria-s-uba-sees-up-to-40-loan-growth-for-oil-power-projects.html
United Bank for Africa Plc ,  Nigeria ’s
fifth-largest lender by market value, plans to increase loans by
as much as 40 percent this year to fund oil, power and
manufacturing projects.  “We have some deals in the power sector,” besides
investments in “oil and gas that have the largest chunk of our
portfolio,” Ugochukwu Nwaghodoh, the Lagos-based bank’s chief
financial officer, said in a telephone interview on May 14. That
compares with growth of about 13 percent last year to 659
billion naria ($4.2 billion), he said.  UBA sold its bad loans to the Asset Management Corp. of
Nigeria, or Amcon, set up by the government in 2010 to buy
troubled debts from the country’s lenders and stabilize the
financial system when loans to stock market speculators and
gasoline importers threatened the industry with collapse
following the global financial crisis.  Having improved risk management and with a non-performing
loans-to-assets ratio of about 2 percent, “one of the bank’s
key focus is robust loan growth,” Nwaghodoh said, with loan-to-deposit ratio expected at 45 percent.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer, is selling majority
stakes in  power plants  and letting private investors acquire
holdings of as much as 60 percent in six transmission and 11
power-distribution companies spun out of the former state-owned
utility. Banks have also increased lending to the oil industry
as smaller producers expanded drilling. Companies including
London-based  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL)  and Lagos-based Neconde Energy
Ltd. bought stakes in fields owned by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Eni
SpA and Total SA.  Profit Growth  The lender is targeting a profit growth of 15 percent to 30
percent in 2013 and return on equity of 20 percent, Nwaghodoh
said, “as the central bank introduced a new banking tariff that
will see a reduction in earnings” and a new Amcon rule requires
lenders to pay more toward its costs.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  said March 27 lenders in sub-Saharan Africa’s second-biggest economy will drop charges on
commission on sales and cut fees and commissions on other
transactions starting April 1 to minimize conflict between banks
and their customers. Amcon, which is partly funded by the
nation’s lenders, increased the assets banks need to contribute
to its sinking fund to 0.5 percent this year, from 0.3 percent.
It said it spent 5.6 trillion naira in 2011 to acquire non-performing loans.  UBA isn’t considering raising capital this year for its
operations, though it has approval to sell bonds as the need for
capital arises, Nwaghodoh said.  Profit Rises  “We have enough for our operations at present, with a
balance sheet of over 2 trillion naira, more than 70 percent
being earning assets,” he said.  Net income for the three months through March increased to
16.3 billion naira from 12.3 billion naira a year earlier,
according to a May 13 filling to the  Nigerian Stock Exchange .
Revenue rose to 62.8 billion naira from 52.4 billion naira.  UBA, which has operations in 22 countries, plans to
increase income from units outside Nigeria to 40 percent in the
next two to three years from 20 percent last year, Nwaghodoh
said. The lender may open in  Angola  this year if regulators
there approve, he said.  “Otherwise we don’t plan any other offshore expansion in
the short to medium term,” he said.  The bank’s  shares  have risen 89 percent this year, compared
with 23 percent a gain by the Bloomberg Nigerian Stock Exchange
Banking 10 Index, which tracks the country’s 10 largest lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  