-- Nintendo, Apple, Samsung, Metso: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-15T11:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/nintendo-apple-samsung-metso-intellectual-property.html
Nintendo Co. (7974) , maker of the Wii video-gaming system, won a U.S. appeals court ruling that makes it
harder for patent-licensing companies to seek an import ban on
products as a way to demand royalties.  Motiva LLC, which claimed Nintendo infringed its patents
for a system to track a game user’s position, didn’t meet the
requirements to file a trade complaint, the Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit said May 13 in a decision posted on its
website. The ruling backs the U.S. International Trade
Commission’s decision against the Dublin, Ohio-based company.  The ITC’s goal is to protect U.S. markets from unfair trade
practices, and it requires patent owners to prove they have
something worth protecting. The agency said Motiva’s three-year-old lawsuit against Kyoto, Japan-based Nintendo in a district
court didn’t pass that test, and the appeals court agreed.  The ITC had found Nintendo didn’t infringe the patents. The
Federal Circuit, rather than ruling on that issue, made its
decision on the question of whether a case should have been
allowed at the commission.  The ITC has the power to block products that infringe U.S.
patents. Companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Apple Inc. have said
that potential threat is being used too often by patent-licensing firms to force legal settlements.  The ITC has only issued four import bans to companies that
don’t make products, and in each of the cases, the patent owner
developed the technology, according to an April report from the
commission.  Motiva was founded in 2003 by two men who sought to
integrate fitness and video games through motion detection,
according to the complaint. They were unsuccessful in
commercializing any product.  In November 2006, Nintendo began selling the Wii, which
features a motion-sensor controller that allows users to
replicate movements like swinging a tennis racquet on screen.  Motiva sued Nintendo in 2008 in federal court in Tyler,
Texas, a district with a history of decisions favoring patent
owners. Nintendo succeeded in having the case transferred to a
federal court in Seattle, and then having it put on hold while
the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  reviews the validity of the
patents.  The ITC complaint was filed in September 2010, which both
the agency and the Federal Circuit said was too late if Motiva
wanted to show it was interested in preserving its ability to
commercialize the inventions.  The case is Motiva LLC v. ITC, 12-1252,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The ITC case is In
the Matter of Video Game Systems and Controllers, 337-743, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  Apple Seeks to Add Samsung Galaxy S4 to Infringement List  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  told a U.S. judge it will seek permission to add
Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy S4 smartphone to a list of 22
“accused products” Apple alleges infringes its patents.  The disclosure came in a footnote to a May 13 filing with
U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh in San Jose, California,
responding to her April 24 directive that each side submit a
limited list of the other’s allegedly infringing products.  This is the second infringement lawsuit between the
companies in the same court. Apple filed the case last year to
address technology in newer smartphones made by the companies.  “Apple has identified (and separately counted) specific
Samsung products -- not product lines,” the Cupertino,
California-based company told Koh in its six-page submission.
Included on its 22-item list are Samsung’s Galaxy SII and SIII
phones, Galaxy Note, Galaxy Note 10.1 and Galaxy Note II hybrid
phone-tablets and three Galaxy series tablet computers.  Should Apple win permission to add the Galaxy S4 smartphone
that Samsung released last month, it will drop one of the other
devices from the list, according to the filing.  Samsung, too, submitted a 22-product list to Koh,
identifying as alleged infringers five models of Apple’s iPhone,
five versions of the iPad tablet computer, three types of iPod
digital-music players and the MacBook Pro and MacBook Air
computers.  Each side also accused the other of failing to properly
interpret and comply with the court’s April 24 directive.  This second patent suit follows a case in which a jury
awarded Apple $1.05 billion after finding Samsung infringed six
of the iPhone maker’s mobile-device patents.  Koh, correcting what she said was the jury’s error, reduced
the damages total to $639.4 million and ordered a new trial in
November for some products at issue in that case.  The earlier case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
Ltd., 11-cv-01846, and the second case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co., 12-cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  Metso’s $31.6 Million Victory Over Terex Tossed on Appeal  Metso Oyj’s (MEO1V)  $31.6 million patent-infringement victory over
 Terex Corp. (TEX)  was thrown out by a U.S. appeals court that said its
patent on a machine that sorts rocks and gravel was invalid.  Metso had won a $15.8 million verdict that was doubled by a
trial judge based on the jury’s finding that the infringement
was willful. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
in Washington yesterday reversed the verdict, saying the
disputed patent 5,577,618 covers an obvious variation of earlier
know-how. The opinion was posted on the court’s website.  The dispute is over Terex’s Powerscreen machines with a
method of screening a large amount of sand and gravel into
different hoppers for distribution. Metso’s invention relates to
conveyors that can be folded into the side so the machine can
travel on roadways.  Terex, the Westport, Connecticut-based maker of cranes and
lifts, argued that the invention was little different from the
older Masterskreen Dominator developed by the same inventor. The
Federal Circuit agreed. It was “ordinary skill and common sense
rather than innovation” that led to the patented invention, the
three-judge panel said.  Metso, based in Helsinki, makes paper machines in addition
to rock crushers.  The case is Metso Minerals Inc. v. Powerscreen
International, 11-cv-01572, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Metso
Minerals Inc. v. Powerscreen International Distribution Ltd.,
06-cv-01446, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
( Central Islip ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Forever 21’s Trademark Case Against Discounters Set for May 28  Forever 21 Inc.’s trademark lawsuit against discount
clothing stores is set to go to trial in federal court in  Los
Angeles  on May 28.  The Los Angeles-based clothing company sued the off-price
stores, claiming they were selling Forever 21 merchandise
without authorization, even if they cut out the Forever 21
labels or substituted new labels.  Investigators for Forever 21 shopped at the off-price
stores and purchased items that contained some of the chain’s
trademarks, the company said. In a complaint filed in February
2012, Forever 21 said the sales violated its exclusive rights to
sell goods under its marks, and that consumers would be confused
by the similarity.  Defendants have responded in court filings, saying that
when they buy clothing bearing brands, the practice is to remove
all identifying marks before the items are placed on the selling
floor. They also said that Forever 21 waited too long to place
its claim and had misused its trademarks.  The case could have “resounding effects” on the off-price
clothing market,  according to  California Apparel News.  The case is Forever 21 Inc. v. Seven Lions Inc., 12-cv-01152, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  GNC Sues Florida Pawnshop Chain Saying New Logo Infringes Mark  GNC Holdings Inc. (GNC) ’s General Nutrition Investment and
General Nutrition Centers units sued a Florida-based pawn shop
chain for trademark infringement.  A new logo used by  Gold N Connection LLC  of Pompano Beach
infringes marks used by the health and wellness stores and
confuses the public, GNC alleged in a complaint filed in federal
court in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.  GNC objects to the pawn shops’ signage that identifies the
stores as “GNCPAWN.”  The Pittsburgh-based company says it has
many GNC stores in south Florida, including 13 within five miles
(8 kilometers) of one of the pawn chain’s stores.  The pawn shop’s gift cards are now identified as “GNC,”
and the company operates a website at the www.gncpawn.com
Internet domain name. These also confuse the public, as does the
pawn chain’s use of GNC as an identifier in Twitter Inc.’s
short-message service, Pittsburgh-based GNC said.  GNC asked the court to bar the pawn chain’s use of
“GNCPAWN” and to halt any other infringing activities.
Additionally, the nutrition company seeks destruction of all
infringing promotional materials and awards of attorney fees,
litigation costs and money damages.  Joshua Davis, a co-founder of the pawn chain, said in a
 statement  that “GNC is delusional if it believes the public
will be confused into thinking that GNCPAWN.com sells vitamins
or dietary supplements.” Gold N Connection will fight the
“meritless” lawsuit, the company’s attorney, Douglas J.
Jeffrey of Miami Lakes, Florida, said in the statement.  The case is General Nutrition Investment Co. v. Gold N
Connection LLC, 13-cv-60978, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  European Parliament Member Calls for Free Film, Music Sharing  The youngest member of the European Parliament, 25-year-old
 Amelia Andersdotter , said Europe’s copyright laws need to be
changed to permit non-commercial downloading of content for
free, the U.K.’s Independent  reported .  Andersdotter, a member of Sweden’s Pirate Party, told the
Independent that the revenues in all cultural sectors are rising
and people are spending a lot more money on content, even if
they also copying pirated material.  Speaking at a debate held at the  London School  of
Economics, Andersdotter said the  music industry  isn’t struggling
financially and “funds itself fine, actually,” the Independent
reported.  She said that file-sharing of films and music flows from
people’s desire to expand cultural horizons and shouldn’t be
criminalized, according to the newspaper.  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Stanford Names Phillip Malone to Head Juelsgaard IP Clinic  Stanford Law School appointed Phillip Malone to head the
school’s new Juelsgaard  Intellectual Property  and Innovation
Clinic.  Malone , who will be a professor of law at Stanford, is
presently director of the Cyberlaw Clinic at Harvard Law
School’s Berkman Center for Internet & Society, the California
school said in a  statement .  Stanford’s new clinic was established with the support of
Stephen Juelsgaard, who received his law degree there and was
most recently chief compliance officer and executive vice
president and secretary at Genentech Inc.  Students in the new clinic will represent primarily
nongovernmental organizations in subject areas that include
biotechnology,  information technology , pharmaceuticals, clean
technology and the creation and distribution of knowledge,
according to Stanford’s statement.  Before he went to Harvard in 2001, Malone was a senior
attorney with the antitrust division of the U.S. Justice
Department. He was lead counsel in the government’s
investigation of Microsoft Corp. and worked with outside counsel
 David Boies  in the subsequent antitrust case. He was also one of
the lead lawyers in the government’s antitrust case against
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   Malone has an undergraduate degree from  Harvard College  and
a law degree from the  University of Arizona .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  