-- Obama Forces Out Acting IRS Chief in Bid to Rebuild Trust
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-05-15T23:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/obama-says-acting-irs-commissioner-steve-miller-resigned.html
President  Barack Obama  announced the
resignation of acting Internal Revenue Service Commissioner
Steven Miller amid an escalating scandal over the agency’s
selective scrutiny of nonprofit organizations.  “It’s inexcusable, and Americans are right to be angry
about it, and I am angry about it,” Obama said today at the
White House in announcing Miller’s departure. “It’s important
to institute new leadership that can help restore confidence.”  Miller was forced out after the IRS acknowledged on May 10
that employees had selectively screened groups’ applications for
tax-exempt status based in part on whether their names included
the phrases “tea party” or “patriot.”  Obama didn’t say who will run the IRS in the interim. He
hasn’t nominated a permanent commissioner since the term of
Douglas Shulman, a George W. Bush appointee, ended in November.  “This has been an incredibly difficult time for the IRS
given the events of the past few days,” Miller wrote in a
letter to IRS employees. “And there is a strong and immediate
need to restore public trust in the nation’s tax agency.”  Miller wrote that he will leave the IRS in June, completing
a 25-year career, after working on an “orderly transition” to
a new acting commissioner.  Republicans have complained since early 2012 about delays
in approving anti-tax Tea Party groups’ applications and the
extensive questionnaires sent to the organizations. The
targeting of groups started in 2010, and some IRS managers knew
by June 2011.  ‘No Stonewalling’  “More than two years after the problem began, and a year
after the IRS told us there was no problem, the president is
beginning to take action,” Senator Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky ,
the chamber’s Republican leader, said in a statement today after
Obama’s remarks.  “If the president is as concerned about this issue as he
claims,” McConnell said, “he’ll work openly and transparently
with Congress to get to the bottom of the scandal -- no
stonewalling, no half-answers, no withholding of witnesses.”  Shulman told lawmakers in March 2012 that the agency wasn’t
targeting groups based on their ideology. Miller said in July
2012 that the IRS had grouped applications together without
explaining how it was done.  The IRS said Shulman and Miller were informed of the
targeting of small-government groups in May 2012. They didn’t
inform Congress, a decision the agency said was done to avoid
interfering with an inspector general’s report.  May 2012  Lawmakers have been focusing on the officials’ silence amid
intense congressional interest in the issue.  The issue exploded into a scandal on May 10, when Lois
Lerner, a mid-level IRS official, acknowledged the practice and
apologized. She spoke four days before the release of the
inspector general’s report.  Attorney General Eric Holder has opened a criminal probe
and four separate congressional committees are investigating.  “My question isn’t about who’s going to resign,” House
Speaker John Boehner said earlier today. “My question is: Who
is going to jail over the scandal?”  Holder said the Federal Bureau of Investigation inquiry
wouldn’t be limited to IRS employees in Cincinnati, where the
applications were handled, and may include Washington employees
if the evidence points that way.  “The facts will take us wherever they take us,” Holder
told the House Judiciary Committee today as he pledged to
lawmakers that the investigation would be “dispassionate” and
nonpartisan. “Anybody that has broken the law will be held
accountable.”  House Hearing  The House Ways and Means Committee will hold the first
hearing on the controversy on May 17. Miller and Russell George,
the IRS inspector general, will testify.  The Senate Finance Committee will hold a hearing May 21 and
the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee will follow
on May 22.  The oversight committee requested transcribed interviews
with five mid-level and lower-ranking IRS employees: Holly Paz,
John Shafer, Gary Muthert, Liz Hofacre and Joseph Herr.  Also today, the IRS gave a clearer explanation for why
employees started using “tea party” to screen applications for
tax-exempt status. Some employees had noticed applications from
tea party groups that had presented concerns that they were too
political to qualify as a social welfare group, the agency said
in a questions-and-answers document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  