-- Obama Administration Releases E-Mails on Benghazi Account
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-05-16T18:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/obama-administration-releases-benghazi-talking-points-e-mails.html
President  Barack Obama  called on
Congress to “fully fund” his request to bolster security at
U.S. diplomatic outposts as he sought to contain political
fallout from last year’s deadly attack in Benghazi, Libya.  Obama used a White House news conference with Turkish Prime
Minister Tayyip Erdogan today to urge the cooperation of
Congress, where House Republicans are conducting multiple
hearings on the attack and the administration’s response.  His plea came a day after the White House released almost
100 pages of e-mails showing the internal debate about how to
characterize the Sept. 11, 2012 assault on a U.S. facility in
Benghazi that killed Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other
Americans.  “We need to come together and truly honor the sacrifices
of those four courageous Americans and better secure our
diplomatic posts around the world,” Obama said.  The White House is confronting simultaneous controversies
involving the Benghazi attack, Internal Revenue Service scrutiny
of political groups and the Justice Department’s subpoena of
Associated Press telephone records in a leak investigation.  Republicans have accused the administration of failing to
protect U.S. personnel as the Benghazi attack unfolded and then
tailoring what was said publicly about it to deflect criticism
of Obama in the closing weeks of the presidential campaign.  Funding Debate  Some Democrats have countered by saying Republicans
repeatedly cut funding requests from the State Department for
security.  Obama said he’s putting in effect recommendations of an
independent review board convened in response to the Benghazi
incident.  “But we’re not going to be able to do this alone,” Obama
said about embassy security. “We’re going to need Congress as a
partner.”  In his budget for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, Obama
proposed $2.2 billion for building projects to improve security
at diplomatic facilities. The funding is part of a $4.4 billion
budget request for security staff, construction and
infrastructure upgrades in fiscal 2014, a $996 million increase
from fiscal 2012.  The documents released by the White House yesterday capture
two days of internal discussion among Obama staff members, the
CIA and the State Department over what to include in talking
points about the Benghazi attack.  E-Mail Traffic  The e-mail traffic and the resulting talking points have
become a point of contention between the administration and
congressional Republicans, who contend they show politically
motivated attempts to down play the involvement of terrorist
groups.  In the end, the talking points were so pared down, from six
bullet points to three, that then-Central Intelligence Agency
director David Petraeus suggested they be discarded.  The e-mails reveal a process where the agency made major
revisions to the talking points, after receiving input from its
staff and objections from the State Department, before
delivering the finished version to Congress and United Nations
Ambassador Susan Rice. An initial assertion that “Islamic
extremists with links al-Qaeda” were involved in in the attack
was changed to a suggestion that “extremists participated in
the violent demonstrations.”  The White House has insisted that it made only
“stylistic” changes to an account originally drafted by the
CIA.  House Report  Yesterday’s document release had been sought by Republican
lawmakers.  Brendan Buck , a spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner, said the Benghazi e-mails don’t contradict the
conclusions of an interim House report. That examination said
that the State Department sought changes to avoid criticism that
it didn’t heed warnings of extremist threats.  “The seemingly political nature of the State Department’s
concerns raises questions about the motivations behind these
changes and who at the State Department was seeking them,” Buck
said by e-mail.  The administration e-mails reveal how the drafting of a
document originally requested by Congress quickly involved
several government departments. Roughly six hours after the
first draft was sent from the CIA to the White House on Sept.
14, one agency official wrote to another that the coordination
process had run “into major problems.”  ‘Major Concerns’  “A number of agencies have been looped in,” reads the e-mail, sent from the CIA official, whose name is redacted in the
documents. “The White House has cleared quickly, but State has
major concerns.”  In a briefing for reporters, the officials described the
inter-agency process that produced the talking points as
routine. Many of the State Department’s concerns were raised
contemporaneously, and independently, by Michael Morell, deputy
director at the CIA, according to one official, who asked not to
be identified in describing the previously classified documents.  The documents show the talking points changing as they
march through government agencies, shepherded by Morell, who
makes the final edits. One page of the documents shows a copy of
the talking points after edits from Morell, striking more than
half of the sentences.  While some of Morell’s objections, such as the inclusion of
previous warnings by the CIA about extremists in eastern Libya,
were shared by the State Department, Morell arrived at his
concerns independently, according to one official.  Sentence Removal  He removed a sentence that indicated the CIA “had produced
numerous pieces on the threat of extremists linked to al-Qaeda
in Benghazi and eastern Libya,” because it could have laid some
of the blame for inadequately protecting Americans at the State
Department, without giving its staff the opportunity to respond,
according to one official.  At the same time, then-State Department spokeswoman
Victoria Nuland raised similar objections.  “I have serious concerns about all the parts highlighted
below, and arming members of Congress to start making assertions
to the media that we ourselves are not making because we don’t
want to prejudice the investigation,” she wrote.  Attorney General Eric Holder said the Justice Department
and FBI will be prepared soon to release the results of their
inquiry into how the four Americans died. “We have made very,
very, very substantial progress in that investigation,” Holder
told lawmakers at a House Judiciary Committee hearing.  Morell made other changes to the talking points to ensure
that they didn’t include any details that could have impeded the
FBI’s investigation, according to the officials.  Petraeus’ Reaction  In the end, the pared-down talking points left CIA’s
Petraeus disappointed.  “Frankly, I’d just as soon not use this,” he wrote after
reviewing the talking points on the afternoon of Sept. 15.
“This is certainly not what Vice Chairman Ruppersberger was
hoping to get,” he said, referring to Maryland Representative
Dutch Ruppersberger, the top Intelligence Committee Democrat.  While the administration officials said that final changes
were made by Morell after a brief discussion at a deputies’
meeting on the morning of Sept. 15, an e-mail from an
unidentified official in Rice’s office suggests otherwise.  “Morell noted that these points were not good and he had
taken a heavy editing hand to them,” read an e-mail from an
official whose name was redacted for security reasons.  That contention was disputed by administration officials at
the White House news briefing. Morell didn’t discuss the talking
points in detail at the meeting, according one administration
official.  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee held
hearings on the matter last week and Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, said “more hearings and more information” are to
come.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  