-- Obama Asks Schumer to Revive Bill to Shield Reporters
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-05-16T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/obama-asks-schumer-to-revive-legislation-to-shield-reporters.html
Under pressure from lawmakers and
journalism groups for the Justice Department’s subpoena of
reporters’ telephone records, the Obama administration sought to
revive a bill to help journalists protect confidential sources.  President  Barack Obama ’s staff asked Democratic Senator
Charles Schumer to reintroduce legislation he co-sponsored in
2009 that would limit the circumstances under which the U.S.
government could compel journalists to reveal information about
their news gathering.  “Right now there’s virtually no guidelines, there’s no
supervision,” Schumer, of New York, told reporters yesterday.  At the same time, Attorney General Eric Holder told the
House Judiciary Committee yesterday that he was confident in the
prosecutors who obtained the telephone records of the Associated
Press journalists.  Holder, who recused himself from the leak investigation
that led to the subpoenas, said he wasn’t sure a so-called
shield law would make a difference in the AP case. Schumer also
said he was unsure it would change the outcome for the news
service, since the bill contains a national-security exception.  Representative Jim Himes, a Connecticut Democrat, took to
the House floor to say he was “profoundly concerned” about the
latest case. “It’s time for the Department of Justice to stand
back,” said Himes, who questioned whether the actions would
chill whistle-blowers in the government.  Records Subpoenaed  Under Obama and Holder, the Justice Department has
prosecuted more government officials for alleged leaks to the
news media under the World War I-era Espionage Act than all
prior attorneys general combined.  The Justice Department informed the AP on May 10 that it
had subpoenaed records from some of its telephone numbers over a
two-month period last year. The records were taken without
notice or a chance for the news agency to challenge in court.  White House press secretary Jay Carney said the president
and his staff weren’t involved in the probe. Asked if the White
House push for Schumer’s bill was to deflect political attacks,
he said Obama viewed it as “appropriate to resubmit” the
shield law legislation “at this time.”  Holder said he wasn’t informed in advance of the records
seized because he had recused himself from the case.  The push for the federal shield law came as Obama also
tried to contain political damage from probes into its handling
of information about the attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi,
Libya, and the Internal Revenue Service targeting of small-government groups seeking tax-exempt status. Obama on television
announced the resignation of the acting IRS commissioner.  Broad Requests  Representative Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican and
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said at a hearing
that “any abridgment of the First Amendment right to the
freedom of the press is very concerning.”  Representative John Conyers of  Michigan , the top Democrat
on the panel, said he was “troubled by the notion that our
government would pursue a broad array of phone records over a
period of time.”  Schumer’s measure, which never went to the Senate floor for
a vote in 2009, was similar to laws in 49 states. It would
impose a test for federal judges in deciding whether to force
disclosure of the sources.  The legislation would let the government compel disclosure
of confidential information if it’s essential to stopping or
mitigating terrorist acts or other significant harm to national
security.  Court Approval  Schumer’s office said in a statement that it’s unclear
whether the legislation would have affected the AP phone records
case because a national security exception might have applied.
Law enforcement authorities could still seek to “convince a
court that special circumstances warranted a delay in the
disclosure,” according to the statement.  The Supreme Court ruled in 1972 that the First Amendment
doesn’t protect reporters from having to comply with grand jury
subpoenas. At the same time, Justice Lewis Powell said in a
separate opinion that judges should strike “the proper balance
between freedom of the press and the obligation of all citizens
to give relevant testimony.”  Because Powell represented the controlling vote, lawyers
have spent decades debating the meaning of his words and the
extent to which his opinion limits the ability of prosecutors to
demand information from reporters.  No Explanation  The Justice Department letter informing AP of the subpoena
didn’t specify why it collected the records.  The AP, a nonprofit news cooperative owned by U.S.
newspapers and broadcasters, said the review of its journalists’
phone records may be related to a federal probe into a May 7,
2012, news report about an intelligence operation in Yemen that
foiled a plot to blow up an airliner around the first
anniversary of the killing of Osama bin Laden.  Five reporters and an editor who worked on the terror story
were among those individuals whose phone records for April and
May 2012 were accessed, the news service said this week.  Deputy Attorney General James Cole, who took over
supervising the leak investigation after Attorney General Eric Holder recused himself, said in a May 14 letter to AP’s chief
executive that the department doesn’t “take lightly the
decision to issue subpoenas” for phone records to the media.  “The subpoenas were limited to a reasonable period of time
and did not seek the content of any calls,” Cole wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  