-- Lockheed Martin Explores Naval Weapons Link With Europe’s MBDA
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-15T07:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/lockheed-martin-explores-naval-weapons-link-with-europe-s-mbda.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the No. 1
defense company, and MBDA, the No. 2 missile maker, are
considering cooperation in naval weapons to attract more
customers worldwide.  The agreement could lead to offerings of Lockheed Martin’s
weapons launchers with MBDA’s new Sea Ceptor ship-defense
missile system, Paris-based MBDA said in a statement today. A
demonstration to launch MBDA’s Common Anti-Air Modular Missile
from Lockheed’s Mk. 41 vertical launcher, used by more than a
dozen navies, is planned this year, it said.  European and U.S. defense companies are increasingly
seeking sales abroad as their domestic markets shrink and are
looking at opportunities from naval modernization in Asia, the
 Middle East  and  Latin America . The naval weapons market has been
dominated by  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  with weapons such as the Tomahawk
long-range cruise missile and Standard Missile air and missile
defense family of interceptors.  “There is a strong logic for MBDA to join forces with
Lockheed Martin whose vertical launch systems have a strong
presence in the naval market,” MBDA Chief Executive Officer
Antoine Bouvier said in the statement. “Working in concert, we
will be able to offer greater choice to naval customers around
the globe providing them with solutions optimized to their exact
needs.”  MBDA is a joint venture of European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co.,  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)  It has
cooperated in the past with Lockheed Martin, and they are
working together on the Medium Extended Air Defense System
program to replace Patriot air and missile defense systems in
the U.S.,  Germany , and Italy. Budget cuts mean Meads will not go
into production.  MBDA’s Sea Ceptor program is a new ship air-defense
initiative for deployment on Royal Navy Type 23 destroyers in
2016 and later equipping the replacement Type 26 destroyer. MBDA
secured a 483 million pound ($743 million) development  contract 
last year from the U.K. government to work on the missile that
can fly at three times the speed of sound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  