-- Hollande’s First Anniversary as President Marred by Recession
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-05-15T11:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/hollande-s-first-anniversary-as-president-marred-by-recession.html
French President Francois Hollande’s
first anniversary in office today was marred by confirmation of
 France ’s second recession in two years.  Europe ’s second-largest  economy shrank  0.2 percent in the
first quarter, the same pace as in the previous three months, as
investment and exports plunged and  consumer spending  dropped,
national statistics office Insee said today.  “Francois Hollande has been in trouble from the
beginning,” said Dominique Reynie, a politics professor at
Sciences Po in Paris. “No candidate in last year’s election
addressed the true state of the world. Today Hollande is paying
the price for that.”  Hollande’s approval rating is 24 percent, according to a
 TNS Sofres poll  of 1,000 voters taken between April 24 and 27.
The next lowest rating at this stage of a presidential mandate
was Nicolas Sarkozy’s 32 percent in 2008, TNS data shows.
 Francois Mitterrand  and  Jacques Chirac  held at 44 percent or
more in both of their two terms.  Hollande is struggling to balance demands from the European
Union for deficit reduction and voter frustration with record
joblessness. Two weeks after the European Commission gave France
two extra years to cut its deficit below 3 percent of gross
domestic product, Hollande todays meet all European
commissioners, the first such gathering for a French president
since 1997. He holds a press conference in Paris tomorrow.  French lawmakers yesterday approved a plan that will loosen
the nation’s labor laws and Hollande has begun talks with unions
and business leaders about overhauling the retirement system.
Last month, he announced he was rolling back some of his own tax
increases.  ‘Personal Responsibility’  “ Francois Hollande  has a personal responsibility in the
worsening of the French economic situation,” Jean-Francois Cope, head of the opposition UMP party, told reporters today.
“Our companies are strangled by tax measures that penalize
their competitiveness, that penalize their margins, and penalize
their ability to invest and hire.”  Hollande and his lieutenants say France’s troubles are no
worse than the 17-nation euro area’s. “The economic situation
in France results above all from the aggravation of the euro
zone’s economic crisis, even if France held up better at the end
of the year than most of its partners,” Najat Vallaud-Belkacem,
the government’s spokeswoman said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  