-- Home Capital CEO Soloway Sees No Canada Housing Bubble
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-05-15T21:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/home-capital-ceo-soloway-says-sees-no-housing-bubble-in-canada.html
Home Capital Group Inc. (HCG) , the largest
non-bank mortgage lender in  Canada , said it sees no housing
bubble in the country.  “Despite a softening housing market in Canada, we do not
believe there is a bubble,” Gerald Soloway, chief executive
officer of Home Capital, said at the company’s annual meeting in
Toronto today. “While the volume of home sales may have
declined about 15 percent across Canada, prices have remained
very stable.”  Home Capital rose 2.7 percent to C$51.10 at the 4:00 p.m.
market close in Toronto. The company’s shares have declined 14
percent this year as Canada’s housing market cooled. Home resale
prices in Canada rose in April at the slowest pace since 2009.  Short interest on Home Capital stock reached a peak on May
14, with 23 percent of the stock shorted, data compiled by
London-based Markit show. Short sellers profit from price
declines by selling borrowed securities and replacing them with
stock bought at cheaper levels.  Steve Eisman, the Emrys Partners LP founder who rose to
fame betting against U.S. subprime mortgages, said he was
shorting Home Capital stock at the Ira Sohn conference in New
York on May 8 as he forecast a housing slowdown.  Soloway said he sees solid growth for the company in 2013
and that it will increase its presence in urban markets.  Fred Westra, a Montreal-based analyst at Industrial
Alliance Securities, said today Home Capital was a top pick and
raised his price target to C$79 from C$75,  The stock decline had been overdone, Westra said,
forecasting higher loan fees and securitized lending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe in Toronto at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  