-- London City Vacancies Fell 22 Percent, Recruiter Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-05-16T07:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/london-city-vacancies-fell-22-percent-recruiter-says.html
Job vacancies at  London ’s financial-services companies fell 22 percent last month as a weak economy
curbed hiring, according to a recruitment firm’s survey.  New vacancies in the British capital’s City and Canary
Wharf financial districts dropped to 5,922 in April from 7,661 a
year earlier, London-based Morgan McKinley said in a statement
today. Vacancies fell 5 percent from March.  “The total number of newly available temporary and
permanent jobs still remains subdued compared to previous
years,” Hakan Enver, operations director at Morgan McKinley
Financial Services, said in the statement. “We do expect to see
further fluctuations in recruitment levels throughout the rest
of the year.”  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  declared a U.K.
recovery “in sight” yesterday, with officials predicting
growth to accelerate to 0.5 percent in the current quarter from
0.3 percent in the previous three months. The BOE also said that
the recovery remains “weak and uneven” and will be slower than
after previous recessions.  The 10 biggest investment banks, including JPMorgan Chase &
Co.,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG, have
lost about 11,000 front-office staff in the past two years, the
analytics firm Coalition said yesterday in a statement.  The deepest cuts in banking and trading positions were made
in  Europe  and the Asia-Pacific region over the past year,
London-based Coalition said, a 17 percent drop from 2011.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest bank, said yesterday it
will eliminate as many as 14,000 more jobs as Chief Executive
Officer  Stuart Gulliver  set out plans to cut an additional $3
billion of costs as he tries to revive profitability.  “Organisations are still looking for replacement hirings
and there is still a drive for cost control” at banks, Enver
said in an interview. Firms are also reshuffling staff within
their businesses rather than adding new employees, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  