-- London Stock Exchange Annual Profit Exceeds Estimates
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-05-15T16:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/london-stock-exchange-annual-profit-tops-estimates.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , the
operator of  Europe ’s oldest independent bourse, reported annual
profit that beat estimates as revenue increased.  Net income for the 12 months ended March 31 fell to 217
million pounds ($330 million) from 522 million pounds a year
earlier when the company booked a one-time gain related to its
stake in FTSE International Ltd., the London-based company said
in a Regulatory News Service statement today. Analysts had
projected profit of 204.1 million pounds, according to seven
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are optimistic about the year ahead and we will
continue to focus on building best-in-class capabilities,
extending our global footprint and to developing
opportunities,”  Xavier Rolet , LSE’s chief executive officer,
said in the statement.  Rolet is trying to diversify LSE’s business away from
traditional equities trading after losing share to new market
entrants. The exchange earlier this month completed its purchase
of a majority stake in LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. LSE previously
scrapped a bid for TMX Group Inc., the operator of the Toronto
stock exchange, after failing to win support from the Canadian
company’s stockholders.  “LSE’s diversification strategy is showing its benefits
with a broad-based beat,” Peter Lenardos, an analyst at RBC
 Capital Markets  in London, wrote in a report. “It continues to
be a story of diversification, transformation and acquisition.
We believe the company is being exceptionally run, especially
given the challenging market backdrop.”  LSE Shares  Shares in LSE rallied 5.3 percent to 1,406 pence at the
close of trading in London, the biggest jump since November.
They have rallied 29 percent in 2013.  LSE  earns net treasury income  from taking margin or
deposits from traders who use its Italian central counterparty.
The exchange holds the deposits, pays interest to the depositors
and receives an income by investing the funds for the short term
in the Italian  interbank market .  Net treasury income declined 8 percent to 116.7 million
pounds in the period. Revenue advanced 6.9 percent to 726.4
million pounds. So-called adjusted total income rose 5 percent
to 852.9 million pounds.  Information-services revenue climbed 40 percent to 306.3
million pounds, while sales from technology services rose 6.7
percent to 56.1 million pounds. Sales from capital markets,
where LSE makes money from company listings and trading, fell 11
percent to 267.5 million pounds. Revenue from post-trade
services dropped 9.6 percent to 91.8 million pounds.  Speaking on the CNBC television network, Rolet said he sees
“excellent signs of recovery” in the initial public offerings
market in Europe.  Second-half net income dropped 75 percent to 101 million
pounds, according to Bloomberg calculations. The company last
year booked a one-time gain from the stake it already owned in
FTSE International.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Andrew Rummer
at   arummer@bloomberg.net  