-- Mongolia’s Erdenes TT to Mine Coal Coveted by Peabody, Shenhua
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-05-15T06:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/mongolia-s-erdenes-tt-to-mine-coal-coveted-by-peabody-shenhua.html
Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi LLC will begin
this year to mine Mongolia’s West Tsankhi coal area as part of
the debt-laden company’s plan to ramp up output and pay off
money owed to Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  Erdenes TT, as the state-owned company is also known, will
pick a contractor in the next few months to start work at West
Tsankhi with target output of 2.6 million metric tons for 2013,
Chief Executive Officer Yaichil Batsuuri said yesterday in an
interview in Ulaanbaatar. Erdenes TT will also mine as much as 5
million tons at its main East Tsankhi site this year, up from
2.5 million tons in 2012, he said.  The move marks a turnaround in Mongolia’s policy two years
after the nation named China’s Shenhua Group, OAO Russian
Railways, and  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  of the U.S. among companies
due to develop West Tsankhi, which is part of the 6.4 billion
ton Tavan Tolgoi coal basin. Companies from  Japan  and South
Korea also bid to help develop West Tsankhi.  “Many parties could not find a common language, that’s why
the consortium didn’t work,” Batsuuri said, referring to
initial plans for the foreign companies to work together as a
group. “Just in order to increase our output and get over our
current financial problems” Erdenes TT will begin to mine West
Tsankhi by itself, he said.  A number of companies have already expressed interest in
buying Erdenes TT coal from West Tsankhi, he said. Erdenes TT
plans to announce its contract miner for West Tsankhi at the end
of the month, he said.  Repaying Debt  Mongolia’s biggest state coal miner is seeking to boost
output as it needs to repay Aluminum Corp., or Chalco as the
Chinese company is known, $186 million with deliveries of the
fuel. Erdenes TT stopped coal shipments to Chalco, its only
customer, for three months this year in a dispute over price.
The Mongolian miner resumed deliveries last month and may be
able to repay Chalco about six months from now, he said.  Erdenes TT also owes about $200 million to Development Bank
of Mongolia LLC, which is also state-owned, he said. The company
shipped less than it planned to  China  last year as growth in
Asia’s biggest economy slowed.  “If we compare the financial problems with the overall
picture of the project, the debt problem is small,” Batsuuri
said.  Erdenes TT envisions increasing output to 15 million tons
next year and more than 30 million tons by 2017, he said. That
would be more than Mongolia exported last year after output fell
7.7 percent to 28.6 million tons on a slowdown in Chinese
demand, the World Bank said in an April report.  Partnership Eyed  As production rates increase, Erdenes may still pursue some
form of partnership with foreign companies as Mongolian coal
miners have no experience producing more than 10 million tons a
year, he said.  “We would like to work with one of these international
mining companies” such as Peabody,  Anglo-American Plc. (AAL)  and
Chinese firms including Shenhua, Batsuuri said. “They have good
management, engineering, and equipment. We need them. We would
like to work with them on marketing.”  Erdenes TT has scaled down its investment program as the
rail line the company needs to reach Chinese buyers will be
built by other Mongolian state entities, he said. A rail line
could cut transport costs by half since 40 percent of Erdenes TT
costs are currently tied up in paying for trucks to take the
fuel about 260 kilometers (162 miles) south to China, he said.  The state will also take responsibility for adding power
capacity that the company can tap, he said.  Washing Facility Builder  This leaves Erdenes TT to focus on a $400 million plant to
wash coal, which produces a more value-added product, and a $100
million water supply project, he said. The company plans to pick
the builder for the washing facility this year and start
operating it in two or three years, he said.  “We urgently need this project,” which will produce 20
million tons of coal a year, he said. “When we have this plant
ready, the price for our coal will double.”  Once Erdenes TT increases output, adds the washing plant
and other infrastructure, and improves management and
efficiencies, the company will return to the idea of an initial
public offering, Batsuuri said. The share sale, which was
initially planned in 2011 and estimated to raise $3 billion, is
still about a year or two years away, he said.  Mongolia has distributed 1,072 shares in Erdenes TT to each
of its almost 3 million citizens in anticipation of the IPO that
was slated for Hong Kong,  London  and Ulaanbaatar.  “We’re working hard” on the IPO, which will help to
finance the company’s expansion and increase the value of the
stock held by Mongolian citizens, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Ulaanbaatar at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  