-- Lonmin Workers Asked by Union to Return to Duty at Marikana Mine
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-05-15T14:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/lonmin-workers-prolong-strike-after-union-official-assassination.html
The union representing the most
workers at  Lonmin Plc (LON) , the world’s third-largest platinum
producer, asked employees to report for duty after a wildcat
two-day strike halted operations at its biggest mine.  Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union President
Joseph Mathunjwa said miners should report for work tonight and
tomorrow. He was addressing thousands of people wearing green
AMCU T-shirts at the Wonderkop stadium, which is near the
Marikana mine near Rustenburg, 120 kilometers (75 miles)
northwest of Johannesburg.  The two-day walkout at the mine comes after the killing of
a local organizer for the AMCU this weekend. The organization
has been in talks with Lonmin over a recognition agreement after
it surpassed the  National Union of Mineworkers  as the biggest
representative of lower-category employees such as laborers and
drillers.  “Other meetings and negotiations are still ongoing --
hopefully employees will return for the night shift,” Lonmin
spokeswoman Sue Vey said in a text message.  The AMCU represents 70 percent of lower-level workers at
Lonmin and the NUM 20 percent, according to the company. The
AMCU wants a threshold for recognition of 30 percent, while the
company is seeking a level of 10 percent, according to the
union, which has referred recognition talks to  South Africa ’s
Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration. The
company employs 27,000 workers and an additional 10,000
contractors.  Office Closure  AMCU members have stopped working because the NUM hasn’t
honored a notice, served by Lonmin last year, for it to close
its office at the mine, Mathunjwa said in an interview on
Johannesburg-based Talk Radio 702.  “They are still operating, the company should close that
office,” he said. “The demand has been made to management and
management just blatantly ignored it.”  Mathunjwa told workers at Wonderkop stadium that Lonmin
failed to call the police to investigate NUM members accused of
bringing weapons to Marikana. A mass meeting has been scheduled
for miners to attend tomorrow afternoon, he said, according to a
translated version of his remarks.  Violence at the mine in August that erupted from a dispute
over pay left at least 44 people dead, including about 34 who
were shot dead by police on a single day, 70 injured and led to
about 250 arrests. A lengthy strike could threaten Lonmin’s
forecasts of increased output after saying this week that it
plans to exceed production of 700,000 ounces of platinum metals
in concentrate this year after the strikes cut volumes and
raised costs.  Strike Inappropriate  “Lonmin cannot stand another five days of unprotected
strikes; we are going to see retrenchments,” NUM General
Secretary Frans Baleni said in a Cape Town interview. “It is
inappropriate that workers will go on a strike to demand the
closure of another office when that union is party to a peace
accord which promotes freedom of association.”  The shares erased an earlier decline,  rising  2.2 percent to
270.90 pence at 3:05 p.m. in  London . The company returned to
profit in the six months through March from a loss a year
earlier.  “After being marginalized in the past” and now with the
majority of workers as members, AMCU doesn’t appear to want to
negotiate, Tyler Broda, an analyst at Nomura International Plc
in London, said in an e-mail. “It does look like AMCU has
reached a critical mass that will be difficult for NUM to
recover from.”  Production Losses  The company could lose about 2,000 ounces of platinum
production a day if operations are disrupted, Edward Sterck, an
analyst with BMO Capital Markets, said in an e-mailed note to
clients. Lonmin has built a reasonable stockpile of metal in
concentrate and the disruption of a short strike could be small,
he said.  “Lonmin is fully committed to achieving a fair and
peaceful resolution of the dispute, although this has yet to be
achieved,” Mark Munroe, Lonmin’s executive vice president of
mining, said in a statement yesterday. The company has increased
the number of random weapon searches and investigated all
allegations of firearms being held in union offices, he said.
None have been found, Munroe said.  The rand weakened 0.2 percent to 9.2547 per dollar, the
lowest intraday level since April 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  