-- Monsanto Sees ‘Elitism’ in Social Media-Fanned Opposition
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-05-16T00:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/monsanto-sees-elitism-in-social-media-fanned-opposition.html
Monsanto Co. (MON)  opponents who want to
block genetically modified foods are guilty of “elitism”
that’s fanned by social media and fail to consider the needs of
the rest of the world, Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Grant  said.  The global population is growing and food consumption will
rise even faster as people enter the middle class and eat more
protein, the head of the world’s largest seed maker said in an
interview. Those who can pay more for organic food want to block
others from choosing more affordable options, Grant said.  “There is this strange kind of reverse elitism: If I’m
going to do this, then everything else shouldn’t exist,” Grant
said at Monsanto’s St. Louis headquarters yesterday. “There is
space in the supermarket shelf for all of us.”  Opponents question  studies  from the National Research
Council and others that found engineered foods are no more risky
than crops developed through conventional techniques. An
outpouring of concerns was cited by the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  in its decision last week to conduct an
environmental impact statement on herbicide-tolerant crops,
rather than a briefer study.  More than 400,000 people signed a petition to the USDA
opposing approval of  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s 2,4-D tolerant corn and
soybeans, and 31,000 form letters were submitted opposing
dicamba-tolerant soybeans and cotton developed by Monsanto and
 BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest chemical maker.  Social Media  The advent of social media helps explain why many people in
the U.S. have come to oppose genetically engineered crops in
recent years, Grant said.  “I’d feel a whole lot better if it was marinated a little
on where is that extra chicken going to come from or who is
going to grow the new bushel,” Grant, who is also Monsanto’s
chairman, said in the interview.  Crops engineered to withstand herbicide, tolerate disease
and kill insects will play an important role in helping farmers
meet rising food demand on limited arable land, Grant said.  Plant breeding does much more to increase crop yields than
genetic modification, said Charles Benbrook, a research
professor at Washington State University’s Center for Sustaining
Agriculture and Natural Resources. Engineering crops to tolerate
herbicides makes farmers jobs easier, while increasing the
public’s exposure to chemicals such as dicamba and 2,4-D that
have been linked to reproductive problems, he said.  “Most of the people that become motivated to engage the
political issues have become convinced that going down the road
of genetically engineered foods is not the way to meet the needs
of a food insecure population,” Benbrook, who submitted his own
studies opposing approval of the Dow and Monsanto crops, said in
a telephone interview today.  Research Budget  Monsanto spends about half of its $1.5 billion research and
development budget on biotechnology and the other half on
breeding.  Some people lose sight of the bigger global picture, the
CEO said.  “This place is getting busier and more crowded,” Grant
said. “As long as you’ve got money in your back pocket and you
drive your station wagon to the supermarket on weekends, then
it’s out of sight out of mind, so far.”  The best way to help alleviate hunger is for the world to
reduce  food waste , eat less meat, and restore soil fertility,
Benbrook said. Still, genetic engineering is beginning to
produce crops that benefit consumers, such as Monsanto’s Vistive
soybeans that produce healthier oils, he said.  Opponents on social media are capitalizing on an increased
public interest in how their food is produced, Grant said.  ‘Sad Piece’  “And the sad piece of this is, it ends up either or,”
Grant said. “So you get conventional agriculture or broad scale
or however you define it, and organic. I think we’re going to
look back on this period and say, ‘How on earth did that ever
become the fight that it became.’”  Grant said his dicamba-tolerant crops should still be
approved around mid-decade, roughly on schedule with the
company’s own timeline, because scientists at the USDA will
review the applications objectively. The technology will be
added to Monsanto’s Roundup-tolerant crops to help farmers
control weeds that are no longer killed by Roundup herbicide.  “In the U.S., we have a system that works,” Grant said.  He praised Mark Lynas, a 1990s British campaigner against
genetically modified foods who publicly apologized in a January
 speech  for starting what Lynas now calls an “anti-science
movement.”  “That was a gutsy thing to do, and it’s a healthy
conversation,” Grant said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in  St. Louis  at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  