-- Morgan Stanley Share Target Lifted by Mayo on CEO’s Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-05-15T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/morgan-stanley-share-target-lifted-by-mayo-on-ceo-s-plan.html
Michael Mayo , an analyst at CLSA
Ltd., raised his share-price estimate on Morgan Stanley to $36
after Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said the firm may
reach his profitability target next year.  Morgan Stanley shares can rally almost 50 percent, Mayo
said yesterday in a note to investors, raising the price
estimate from $30. Reaching Gorman’s target of 10 percent return
on equity implies earnings per share of $3 for 2014, higher than
the average estimate of $2.50, Mayo wrote.  Gorman, 54, laid out a plan in January to double return on
equity, a measure of how well the New York-based firm reinvests
earnings, from 5 percent in 2012, without assigning a date to
the goal. He said at yesterday’s annual shareholder meeting, in
response to a question from Mayo, that the target can be reached
next year if regulators allow  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to return
“reasonable” amounts of capital to shareholders through
buybacks and dividends.  “The new explicit time frame for consolidated ROE allows
investors to keep the pressure on,” Mayo wrote. Gorman and
Morgan Stanley board members Robert Kidder and Erskine Bowles
“were on the same page about the importance of ROE” at the
meeting, Mayo said.  Mayo raised his Morgan Stanley rating on July 19 to
outperform, after having it at underperform for at least three
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He upgraded the
firm to buy in September and maintained that rating yesterday.  The shares , which climbed 2.5 percent to $24.27 yesterday
in New York, have advanced 83 percent since July 19.  Gorman’s plan to boost ROE involves cutting $1.6 billion of
costs in the next two years, reducing capital used by the firm’s
fixed-income trading business and boosting the pretax margin at
the wealth-management division.  “We’re now in a position where we have excess capital;
however, returning that to shareholders is dependent upon our
regulators granting that desire to return it,” Gorman said
yesterday. “But we expect, with reasonable capital returns,
that we will deliver those goals in 2014. That’s been our
expectation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  