-- Mosaic Says It Will Be Independent After Cargill Resolution
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-05-15T14:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/mosaic-says-it-will-be-independent-after-cargill-resolution-1-.html
Mosaic Co. (MOS) , the second-largest North
American producer of potash, said it sees itself remaining an
independent company once it resolves the ownership of about $8
billion of stock previously held by Cargill Inc.  BHP Billiton Ltd., Rio Tinto Group and Vale SA -- the
world’s largest mining companies -- aren’t in a position to make
a bid after markets for their main commodities weakened, Chief
Executive Officer Jim Prokopanko said yesterday in an interview
at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . Antitrust concerns would
probably block a combination with one of Mosaic’s largest
competitors, he said.  “There’s probably not room for consolidation amongst
potash producers,” Prokopanko said.  Mosaic, also the world’s biggest phosphate-fertilizer
producer, recently completed a five-yearly “deep dive,” in-depth review, which affirmed its strategy of focusing on
phosphate and potash, he said. The Plymouth, Minnesota-based
company plans to grow through joint ventures, expanding existing
mines, and may make acquisitions.  “We didn’t find anything more attractive than crop
nutrition,” Prokopanko said. “Potash and phosphate, that’s the
center of the fairway for us.”  Still, there may be acquisitions in the industry involving
smaller companies, according to the Mosaic CEO. He cited Denver-based  Intrepid Potash Inc. (IPI)  and  Australia ’s  Incitec Pivot Ltd. (IPL)  as
companies of the size that might prove to be attractive.  “If we want to do a large deal we can just do it,” he
said.  Share Buyback?  Mosaic was split off from closely held Cargill about two
years ago. It plans to start talks with charitable trusts
associated with Cargill’s founding family and family member
about buying the 129 million Mosaic shares that they acquired in
the split.  Negotiations can start May 26 under the terms of an accord
agreed to by all the parties involved. Buying back those shares
is “one possibility we would welcome,” Mosaic Chief Financial
Officer Larry Stranghoener said in the interview.  Mosaic said May 13 it has $5 billion of surplus cash and
available debt capacity to be used for share repurchases and
other uses.  Potash prices have dropped since surging in 2008 and 2009
as producers increased capacity. Potash most recently fetched
$410 a metric ton in Vancouver, a major export port for the
commodity, according to  data  from Green Markets. That’s 19
percent lower from a year earlier.  Jansen Project  Prokopanko said prices aren’t high enough to justify
developing so-called greenfield projects, the industry term for
new mines at sites previously untouched. That includes the
Jansen potash mine in  Canada , which BHP is considering building,
he said. Brownfield projects, meaning expansions at existing
sites, are still viable at current prices, he said.  In 2010, BHP made an abortive $40 billion takeover bid for
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the largest North American
potash producer.  “By the end of the decade, when the world’s growing potash
demand has been satisfied with brownfield projects, prices will
have to move up to $600 a ton to justify new money coming into
these projects,” Prokopanko said.  Mosaic dropped 0.4 percent to $61.37 at 10:09 a.m. in New
York. The stock has climbed 8.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  