-- Osborne Vows to Stay Fiscal Course Amid Signs of U.K. Recovery
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-05-15T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/osborne-vows-to-stay-fiscal-course-amid-signs-of-u-k-recovery.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  vowed to stick with his budget-consolidation plans amid
signs of an improvement in the British economy.  In comments aimed as much at the  International Monetary
Fund  as the opposition  Labour Party , both of which advocate
relaxing austerity, Osborne said his strategy was beginning to
pay off. He cited  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King , who
today said recovery is “in sight.”  “Our plan is working,” Osborne told the Confederation of
British Industry in London, according to remarks released by his
office. “Now is not the time to lose our nerve. Let’s not
listen to those who would take us back to square one.”  Stronger-than-forecast growth of 0.3 percent in the first
quarter has given Osborne ammunition against critics who say his
policies are acting as a brake on the economy at a time when it
is still recovering from the financial crisis. IMF inspectors,
currently in London to carry out their annual review of the
British economy, said in April that Osborne should consider
easing the pace of cuts.  “Just as the argument for fiscal stimulus three years ago
was mistaken, so is the suggestion for a discretionary fiscal
loosening now,” Osborne said in reference to Labour’s plans.  The Washington-based IMF lowered its growth forecast for
the U.K. last month to 0.7 percent in 2013 and 1.5 percent in
2014, a 0.3 percentage-point reduction in both years. Chief
Economist  Olivier Blanchard  said Osborne risked “playing with
fire” by pressing ahead with the deepest budget cuts since
World War II.  “The fact is, the most recent economic news has been more
encouraging,” Osborne said. “The economy is growing. Surveys
are better. Confidence is returning to financial markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at +44-20-7222-1092 or
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at +33-1-5365-5075 or
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  