-- Most Overpaid Yankee, Biggest Cheat in ’Who’s on Worst’
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2013-05-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/most-overpaid-yankee-biggest-cheat-in-who-s-on-worst-.html
Who’s the worst pitcher of all time?
Herm Wehmeier of the  Cincinnati Reds , who compiled an earned run
average of 5.25 over nine seasons.  Who’s the worst hitter (excluding pitchers)? Bill Bergen of
 Brooklyn , who had a zero-for-45 slump in 1909 and a career
batting average of .170.  These are the sorts of baseball questions that are asked,
and answered, in “ Who’s on Worst ’’ (Doubleday, $24.95), a
beguiling little volume by Filip Bondy, a New York Daily News
sports columnist with a sharp eye for the miff and the whiff
produced by what he calls “major-league oafs.’’  Bondy finds some beauts: The most overpaid Yankee (pitcher
Kei Igawa, who was paid $46 million, finished with a 2-4 record
and an ERA of 6.66 in 2007-2008). The worst manager ever (Gene
Mauch, whose 1964 collapse with the Phillies is the stuff of
legend). The biggest cheater of all time (Gaylord Perry, whose
pitching skills were enhanced by Vaseline). The biggest goat
(that’s easy:  Bill Buckner  of the  Red Sox , whose fumble threw
away a World Series victory in 1986, breaking many hearts,
especially mine).  One complaint: Bondy chooses Jimmy Piersall, known for
clownish antics and antagonistic behavior, as the worst teammate
ever. Not fair. Piersall suffered from bipolar disorder, and his
public openness about mental illness was revolutionary for the
time. The guy deserves a break if not some measure of
admiration, and his autobiography, “ Fear Strikes Out ,’’ remains
a classic.  ‘On These Courts’  Wayne B. Drash’s irresistible “ On These Courts ’’
(Touchstone, $26) is probably the only book you’ll ever
encounter about middle-school basketball. It recalls a “miracle
season’’ -- for once, a subtitle that doesn’t over-promise -- at
the Lester Middle School in a tough corner of  Memphis ,
 Tennessee .  The star of the story is Penny Hardaway, who grew up mostly
under the sway of his grandmother, flunked algebra and floated
through Memphis State University only to leave early for a
career in basketball. He was drafted third and was a four-time
All Star during his 15 years in the NBA.  But wait. Hardaway would tell you the stars of the story
are the kids he coached, cajoled -- and convinced they could be
champions.  It all began when his old friend, the coach, grew ill and
Hardaway took over the team. He was tough, telling his players
they were students first, then athletes. The lesson sunk in:
“The kids were willing to listen to a millionaire who’d
conquered basketball greatness.’’  Dream Coach  Those kids had a Dream Team coach but far from a dream
life. Hardaway became a surrogate father, and more. He procured
beautiful uniforms and outfitted them in new shoes -- really
nice new shoes. And he took them to a state championship.  “ Relentless: From Good to Great to Unstoppable ’’
(Scribner, $26) is the latest in the genre of self-improvement
books with a sports twist. Its author is trainer Tim S. Grover,
whose clients have included  Dwyane Wade ,  Michael Jordan ,  Charles Barkley  and  Kobe Bryant .  The motivational formula here is not particularly
complicated: “Decide. Commit. Act. Succeed. Repeat.’’  Not even Kobe Bryant’s guru is going to sell a book of only
five words, so the rest of the volume is an exposition of how a
true winner doesn’t stop at the finish line. Sports metaphors
are unavoidable here. Please forgive.  But to employ a set of different images: In politics, it’s
the permanent campaign. In romance, it’s constant courting. In
sports, it’s the relentless effort. Or, as Grover puts it: “You
keep pushing yourself harder when everyone else has had
enough.’’  But in the end Grover is not preaching Marvin Hamlisch
(“What I Did for Love’’) so much as Paul Anka (“My Way’’). And
one more thing: You don’t have to love what you’re doing. You
only have to love succeeding at what you’re doing.  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  James S.
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 