-- Most Emerging Stocks Rise on India Gains as Russia Falls
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-05-15T21:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/most-emerging-stocks-advance-as-indian-shares-rally-won-drops.html
Most emerging-market stocks rose, led
by health-care and consumer shares, as  India ’s benchmark measure
surged to the highest level in more than two years.  Mortgage company  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFCB)  rallied
to a record, while a gauge of Indian lenders rose to the highest
level since 2010 on speculation the central bank will cut banks’
reserve requirements. The Shanghai Composite Index climbed for
the first time in three days, while Rossi Residencial SA led a
gain in  Brazil ’s Ibovespa. Russian shares dropped the most in
four weeks as OAO Rosneft slumped.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index was little changed at
1,046.10, as 488 stocks rose while 284 declined. Reserve Bank of
India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said yesterday he would “take
note” of softening inflation at next month’s monetary policy
review after April data showed wholesale prices grew at the
slowest pace since November 2009.  “India is performing well because of expectations of more
rate cuts following this week’s good inflation numbers,”
Maarten-Jan Bakkum, an emerging-market strategist at ING
Investment Management in the Hague, said by e-mail. “ Russia  is
the outlier. The market has been a dog for a while.”  A  gauge  of health-care stocks in the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index gained 1.1 percent, while commodity producers fell. The
broad measure has slipped 0.9 percent this year, compared with a
13 percent advance in the MSCI World Index.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund gained less than 0.1 percent to $43.39. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, rose 0.5 percent to 19.41.  Ibovespa Gains  Brazil’s Ibovespa rose 0.5 percent as consumer stocks
gained after retail sales increased more than analysts forecast
in March. Homebuilder Rossi jumped 10 percent after posting
first-quarter sales that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  The Mexican IPC index was little changed. TV Azteca SAB,
 Mexico ’s second-largest broadcaster, fell to the lowest price
since October 2011. A law to boost competition in
telecommunications and media gained approval from a majority of
state legislatures, officials said yesterday.  Russia’s Micex slid to its lowest close since May 2. OAO
Rosneft, the nation’s largest crude producer, fell for the first
time in five days. OAO Surgutneftegas, which traded without the
right to receive a dividend today, lost 10 percent.  The ruble weakened against the dollar after Bank Rossii
kept the nation’s refinancing rate on hold at 8.25 percent for
an eighth month, as predicted by 18 of 24 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Largest Lender  India’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  jumped 2.5 percent to the highest
level since Jan. 5, 2011.  State Bank of India , the nation’s
largest lender, added 3.9 percent, the biggest advance since
September. HDFC jumped 4.5 percent to a record.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  climbed 1.1 percent and
 Thailand ’s  SET Index (SET)  added 0.4 percent to its highest close
since January 1994. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland companies listed in Hong Kong rose 0.5 percent.  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd., the world’s largest producer
of polysilicon, soared 10 percent, the  biggest  advance in the
emerging markets gauge, after China Securities Journal said the
nation may announce solar power subsidy policies soon.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 268 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  