-- Overstock.com, Newegg Win Patent Appeal on Alcatel-Lucent
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-05-15T17:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/overstock-com-newegg-win-patent-appeal-on-alcatel-lucent.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  lost its appeals
court bid to revive patent-infringement claims against
 Overstock.com Inc. (OSTK)  and Newegg Inc. over online shopping in a
effort to increase its royalties.  Overstock.com and Newegg won a jury verdict in 2011 that
they didn’t infringe three Alcatel-Lucent patents and that one
of the patents was invalid. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit in Washington, without issuing a formal opinion,
upheld the decision in a notice posted on the court’s website.  The appeal focused on the single patent covering a way to
exchange information with multiple users that was found to be
invalid. The decision could be a boon to other retailers,
including Barnes & Noble Inc., which is challenging this and
other e-commerce patents owned by Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent.
Companies including Amazon.com Inc. and Netflix Inc. settled
before the 2011 trial.  “The vast focus on the appeal was them trying to get their
patent back,” said Ed Reines of Weil Gotshal in Redwood Shores,
 California , who argued the appeal on behalf of both retailers.
“If they had been able to revive this patent, the litigation
machine would have continued on.”  In the 2009 case filed in federal court in Tyler,  Texas ,
Alcatel-Lucent was seeking $6 million from Salt Lake City-based
Overstock.com, a discount retailer, and $12.4 million from
closely held Newegg, which sells consumer electronics and
computers.  This is the second time Newegg, based in City of Industry,
California, won a patent-infringement case that’s helped other
Internet retailers. In January, the Federal Circuit threw out a
$2.5 million verdict Newegg lost and invalidated patents owned
by Soverain Software.  The ruling benefited dozens of companies that had also been
sued by Soverain, including Oracle Corp., International Business
Machines Corp., EBay Inc. and Macy’s Inc. Reines, who
represented Newegg in that case as well, said the victory become
something of a marketing tool for the company with its tech-savvy customers.  “I don’t think Newegg took a principled stand for anything
other than taking a principled stand, but it’s had a wonderful
effect on their business,” he said.  The new case is Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. v. Overstock.com
Inc., 12-1629, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ). The lower court case is Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. v.
Amazon.com Inc., 09cv422, U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Texas (Tyler).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  