-- How Nonprofits Became Tax-Exempt
-- B y   R o b e r t   W r i g h t
-- 2013-05-15T20:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/how-nonprofits-became-tax-exempt.html
The uproar over allegations of
politically motivated  investigations  by the
Internal Revenue Service shouldn’t be surprising given
Americans’ long love affair with nonprofits and their strong
disdain of partisanship, especially within bureaucracies.  After independence, and especially after ratification of
the Constitution, Americans began forming businesses, charities
and other associations at unprecedented rates. Unshackled from
British law and the threat of monarchical tyranny, they sought
to invest in long-term stability, and in each other, in ways
that required the establishment of large and lasting
organizations.  To create these institutions, early Americans adapted
corporate laws from Britain. At first, incorporation required
both for-profit and nonprofit organizations to obtain a charter
from state governments. Charters were special laws passed by
state legislatures and signed by governors under the rules of
state constitutions.  Before the Civil War began in early 1861, more than 22,000
businesses and untold numbers of churches, charities,
promotional associations and other nongovernmental organizations
incorporated.  Religious Services  While not all successfully began operations or lasted very
long, business corporations supplied much of the nation’s early
transportation infrastructure, financial services, manufacturing
and mining production, and utilities (water power, potable
water, gas lighting and telegraphs). Similarly, nonprofit
corporations provided early Americans with many religious,
charitable, educational, literary and promotional services.  Special incorporation, however, spawned political
favoritism. New York, for example, denied the  Bank of New
York  a charter from 1784 until 1791 for purely
partisan reasons: The bank was controlled by Federalists while
the governor and his allies in the legislature were Democrats.
In the early 19th century, politicians also denied the Merchants
Bank of New York a charter for several years. Other
entrepreneurs across the U.S. also complained that their charter
applications were denied for purely partisan reasons.  Luckily for the development of the U.S. economy, early
entrepreneurs stymied by state governments had several other
options. They could charter in another state, as several banks
did in New Jersey when New York proved intransigent. At
some risk, entrepreneurs could also form an unincorporated
joint-stock association and contractually assert the legal
advantages held by duly chartered corporations, including
perpetual succession, entity shielding and defined liability.  Most then bided their time and applied for a charter when
the political winds were more favorable.  Entrepreneurs also quickly learned to make their charter
bids appear nonpartisan. But then legislators began asking for
nonpartisan incentives to vote for charters, such as cash, stock
and a variety of favors, including in at least one reported
case, a favor of an intimate nature. Matters got so bad that in
1812, New York’s Democratic governor, Daniel Tompkins, prorogued
the legislature in response to widespread accusations that
agents of the Bank of America (not the bank of the same name
active today), including the state printer and the state
treasurer, had exerted “undue influence” on several lawmakers.  Federalists immediately painted Tompkins’s suspension of
the legislature as an act of partisan interference with business
even though his action was legal under New York’s first
constitution.  Political Target  Early nonprofits were generally immune from such politics
and were rarely cash cows that corrupt legislators could
plunder. Swamped with charter applications from churches,
libraries, cemeteries and societies for the advancement of beet
sugar, silk, viticulture and other entities, state legislatures
soon streamlined their chartering processes, ultimately creating
general incorporation laws that allowed nonprofits to simply
fill out a few forms and pay a small fee. The U.S. soon became a
“nation of joiners,” where voluntary associations proliferated
and addressed problems that were the province of governments in
other countries.  Facing accusations of corruption and favoritism, state
governments slowly extended the general incorporation principle
to businesses. Although special chartering persisted into the
20th century in some states, by the late 19th century most
businesses in most states obtained charters under general
incorporation laws (especially those of New Jersey and later
 Delaware ).  By World War I, several hundred thousand business
corporations were active in the U.S. A century later, there are
millions of business corporations and the nation rightly prides
itself on the speed and ease with which businesses can form and
incorporate.  Now, however, it is the nonprofit sector that appears to be
subject to partisan politics and bureaucratic bungling.
Nonprofits can incorporate as quickly, easily and cheaply as
ever, but that is of little use if the IRS can harass them or
simply delay their 501(c) applications to be
exempted from taxes.  Many nonprofits rely on donations, which are difficult to
obtain until tax-exempt status is officially granted. Others are
only worth forming or operating if they are tax exempt.  Yet the IRS can take as long as a year to make a decision
on routine 501(c)(3) applications (for nonprofits providing
religious, educational, charitable, scientific, literary and
other specific services).  That means it took less time to obtain tax exemptions,
which were built into many early charters, in the 18th century.
Unlike early state governments, the IRS faces no direct
competition and apparently doesn’t fully appreciate the services
that nonprofits provide the American people.  (Robert E. Wright is the Nef Family Chair
of Political Economy at Augustana College in South Dakota and
the author of “Corporation Nation,” which will be published in
December by the University of Pennsylvania Press. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Wright at  robert.wright@augie.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  