-- How Obama and Erdogan Can Start to End Syria’s War
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-15T15:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/how-obama-and-erdogan-can-start-to-end-syria-s-war.html
Two deadly car bombings last weekend
near Turkey’s border with Syria underscored what Turkish Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  will be looking for from President
 Barack Obama  in  Washington  this week: stronger U.S. leadership
on Syria’s civil war.  What Turkey wants specifically is U.S. support for arming
rebel fighters in Syria and creating a no-fly zone to protect
them. Obama should be open to these ideas, but he should also
ask for actions by the Turks that would ease concerns over
potential drawbacks of U.S. intervention.  The May 11 attacks, which killed about 50 people in an area
that Syria has long claimed as its territory, demonstrated
Turkey’s vulnerability to the bloodshed next door. Erdogan and
his government quickly arrested nine people identified as
members of a left-wing Turkish terrorist group with ties to
Syria’s intelligence agency. The claims are unproven, but they
show the Turkish government’s fear of contagion.  The Obama administration is, of course, equally concerned
about Syria’s violence spreading. Yet the U.S. and  Turkey  have
some very different views on the conflict that need to get
resolved.  Radicals’ Threat  The first concerns extreme Islamist groups such as the al-Nusra Front, an al-Qaeda affiliate, that are fighting against
President Bashar al-Assad’s forces. In Turkey’s view, U.S.
worries over the growing role of these radicals are overblown
and self-fulfilling. Turkey thinks that if mainstream rebel
fighters were better armed and financed, then support for the
militants would fall away.  Although there is truth to that view, the U.S. is rightly
concerned that its weapons will end up in the hands of al-Qaeda.
It also worries that a no-fly zone could help extremists to a
victory that leaves them in charge of part or all of  Syria ,
including its chemical weapons.  Obama should make it clear to Erdogan that the price of
increased U.S. support would be for Turkey to lock down its
territory as a transit point for foreign jihadis who are
routinely seen arriving at Hatay Airport, headed for the war in
Syria. It would also need to be more cooperative toward U.S.
officials operating covertly in southern Turkey (Turkey has been
less cooperative than Jordan in this regard). And it should
speak out more clearly to condemn Islamist radicals, with the
goal of marginalizing them, even if that hurts Turkey’s
popularity with the rebels.  Second, Turkish policy assumes that with proper support,
the more moderate Free Syrian Army can make a clean end to the
fighting, after which the new regime would either drive Islamist
radicals out of the country or eradicate them. The U.S. is less
sanguine. It worries that victory will probably be messy and may
result in a dismembered country, with rebel groups battling for
wider control. Like the administration, we see the latest U.S.-
Russian effort to broker peace talks as the ideal way to avoid
such an outcome, though we hold out little hope.  Erdogan should understand that U.S. support on a scale
needed to end the fighting quickly and cleanly isn’t possible --
ground troops are out of the question. As a recent International
Crisis Group  report  notes, Turkey has become dangerously exposed
by working so closely with the Syrian opposition, allowing rebel
fighters to move freely and “blurring” the border with a former
Ottoman province. Instead of assuming rapid regime change, the
report rightly says Turkey should develop a more neutral policy
toward Syria’s opposition factions, reaching out more to non-Sunnis and preparing for Turkey to work with whatever regime
emerges from the war.  Religious Tensions  Third, the Syrian conflict and the sectarian fissures it
has opened throughout the  Middle East  have pushed Turkey into
the role of a Sunni power in the region. This isn’t a policy
choice Erdogan made -- he reached out to Shiite  Iran  and to
Assad, an Alawite, before the Arab Spring. He also deserves
enormous credit for starting a  peace process  with the Kurdistan
Workers’ Party, easing a severe source of tension in the region.  Still, Erdogan’s government needs to set out a more clearly
nonsectarian agenda in Syria by reducing its commitment to the
Sunni Muslim Brotherhood politicians and fighters it supports
and publicly backing the formation of a transitional government
based on the kind of secular constitution that would include
Alawites, Christians and Druze minorities, as well as Sunnis.  Similarly, Turkey should look to repair damaged relations
with the Shiite leadership in  Iraq . Turkey angered the Iraqi
government by supporting the Sunni opposition to Prime Minister
Nouri al-Maliki in 2010 election, and last month agreed to a
lucrative deal to ship oil out of  Iraqi Kurdistan  against fierce
opposition from  Baghdad , which says the deal is illegal.  Finally, Turkey’s leaders should recognize that they can’t
advocate a regional, international intervention in Syria while
grandstanding with Hamas in Gaza and criticizing  Israel  for its
airstrikes on heavy-weapon convoys on their way from Syria to
Hezbollah in Lebanon.  For Erdogan to get the U.S. military action he wants, he
will need act more as a regional broker and less as the
parochial leader of a Sunni state.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 