-- Pacers Put N.Y. Knicks on Brink of NBA Elimination as Spurs Win
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-05-15T04:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/pacers-win-93-82-to-put-n-y-knicks-on-brink-of-nba-elimination.html
The  New York Knicks  are on the brink
of National Basketball Association playoff elimination after a
93-82 loss at  Indiana , while the  San Antonio Spurs  are one win
from a spot in the Western Conference finals.  Paul George  had 18 points and 14 rebounds and the Pacers
never trailed as they took a three-games-to-one lead in the
best-of-seven second-round series against the Knicks. Indiana
can advance to the Eastern Conference finals with a win tomorrow
night in Game 5 at New York’s Madison Square Garden.  “I still do believe that we are the better team,”  Carmelo Anthony , who had 24 points on 9-for-23 shooting for the Knicks,
said in a news conference. “We gotta remain even more confident,
because if we come into Thursday’s game with no confidence they
can walk away with that game.”  In San Antonio, the Spurs took a 3-2 lead against the
 Golden State Warriors  with a 109-91 win.  Tony Parker  had 25
points and 10 assists for the Spurs, who held the Golden State
backcourt of Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson to a combined 13
points on 6-of-22 shooting.  Kawhi Leonard added 17 points for the Spurs, who can
advance with a win tomorrow night at Oakland, California.
Harrison Barnes led the Warriors with 25 points while Curry had
nine points on 4-of-14 shooting and Thompson shot 2-of-8 for
four points.  Parker said a key to the win was keeping Curry in check.
Curry came into the game averaging 25 points in his previous 10
contests this postseason.  “He’s the head of the snake,” Parker said in a television
interview. “When he’s playing well, the whole team feeds off
him.”  Tonight’s Games  The defending champion  Miami Heat  will try to finish off
the Chicago Bulls tonight in Game 5 of their Eastern Conference
series. The Heat, who are at home, lead the series 3-1 after
winning the last three games. Miami guard  Dwyane Wade  is
questionable for the game with a bruised right knee.  Also tonight, the  Memphis Grizzlies  are at Oklahoma City as
they try to eliminate the Thunder. The Grizzlies lead 3-1 in the
series.  George Hill  had 26 points to lead the Pacers, who
outrebounded the Knicks 54-36 at Bankers Life Fieldhouse in
Indianapolis. New York shot 36 percent against Indiana, which is
5-0 at home this postseason.  “We got hammered on the boards again, we’ve got to rebound
the basketball,” Knicks coach  Mike Woodson  said in a news
conference. “We’ve got to figure out how to block out. That’s
what really hurt us, that was the big difference tonight
again.”  Pacers’ Runs  The Pacers opened the game with an 11-3 run as the Knicks
missed 10 of their first 11 shots. New York responded with its
own 11-3 run, taking advantage of three Indiana turnovers.  Indiana came right back with a 9-2 run and ended the first
quarter up 23-16. The Pacers ended the second period with a 13-4
run and led 48-34 at halftime. The Knicks were 2-for-14 on 3-pointers in the first half.  The Pacers built their margin to 18 points late in the
third period and the Knicks got no closer than eight points the
rest of the game.  “Our effort was just off the charts, I couldn’t be more
proud of our defensive effort, our rebounding effort,” Indiana
coach Frank Vogel said in a news conference.  Anthony went scoreless in the fourth quarter and fouled out
with two minutes remaining in the game. He has not scored a
basket in the final period of the last two games, having been
held to two free throws in the fourth quarter of Game 3.  “I really believe that we can do something special here,”
he told reporters. “Our backs are definitely against the wall
at this point. We must win Thursday and figure it out from
there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 