-- Petrobras Besting Sugar Mills in Ethanol Boom: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-05-15T15:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/petrobras-besting-sugar-mills-in-ethanol-boom-corporate-brazil.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the state-run
oil producer, stands to profit the most from Brazilian measures
to boost ethanol output as rising biofuel supplies reduce the
need to sell imported gasoline at a loss.  Surging demand for ethanol made from sugar cane will help
Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras cut gasoline imports by about 20
percent this year to an average 52,415 barrels a day, said Salim Morsy, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in Sao Paulo.
For millers from  Sao Martinho SA (SMTO3)  to  Biosev SA (BSEV3) , tax breaks and an
increase in the mandatory use of ethanol mixed with gasoline
won’t be enough to offset a 48 percent slump in sugar prices
since early 2011, industry association Unica said.  President Dilma Rousseff’s stimulus for millers to process
a record sugar-cane crop into ethanol will help Petrobras pare
losses at its fuel-supply unit from $17.5 billion last year.
Petrobras also benefits as the second-largest shareholder of
petrochemicals maker Braskem SA, which won tax incentives along
with ethanol mills starting this month, Banco do Brasil SA
equity analyst Carolina Flesch said.  “We are talking about a package of measures that, coupled
with cost cutting and higher output, should help the company to
improve margins,” Flesch, who raised Petrobras to the
equivalent of a buy from hold after the April 23 tax breaks were
announced, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “I’m
sanguine about coming quarters.”  Share Returns  Petrobras, the biggest loser among the world’s 10 largest
oil producers by market value last year after Moscow-based OAO
Gazprom, is returning 3.2 percent including dividends this year.
The returns are trailing those for San Ramon, California-based
Chevron Corp., London-based BP Plc, The Hague-based Royal Dutch
Shell Plc and Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil Corp., according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company traded at 8.1 times estimated 2013 earnings
yesterday, compared with 9.9 times for Chevron and 11.9 times
for Colombia’s Ecopetrol SA, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It
fell 0.3 percent to 19.49 reais at 12:27 p.m. in Sao Paulo.  Petrobras is  rated  a buy by 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Seven recommend holding the stock. None say sell.  An official at Petrobras in Rio de Janeiro, who asked not
to be named citing internal policy, said the company won’t
comment on the fuel imports and benefits from rising ethanol
output.  Profit beat expectations in the first quarter after
Petrobras boosted fuel production, reduced imports and ramped up
 refinery  output. Profit fell 17 percent from a year earlier to
7.69 billion reais, exceeding the 7.41 billion-real average
estimate of five analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 9.7
percent to 72.5 billion reais.  Ethanol-Gas Blend  Brazil is spurring a surge in output of biofuel made from
cane after increasing the mandatory amount blended with gasoline
to 25 percent from 20 percent since May 1 and offering loans and
tax breaks for ethanol mills as of  May 8 .  Brazil  is the biggest
ethanol producer and consumer after the U.S., where the fuel is
made from corn.  Ethanol output in Brazil’s Center South, the world’s
largest sugar-cane producing area, almost tripled last month
from a year earlier, rising to 1.58 billion liters (417 million
gallons), according to millers group Unica.  Mills will get tax credits equal to as much as 12 centavos
(6 cents) a liter of biofuel sold. The alternative fuel was sold
for 1.36 reais a liter on average in April, according to the
University of Sao Paulo’s Cepea agricultural commodities
research agency.  New Investments  While spurring more ethanol output, the incentive for mills
won’t boost sales enough to encourage investments to revamp
plants and counter falling profit margins after international
sugar prices plummeted in the past two years, Antonio de Padua Rodrigues, technical director at Unica, said on April 29.
Increasing ethanol output will allow Petrobras to cut fuel
imports by about half, said  Adriano Pires , head of the Brazilian
Center for Infrastructure, a research firm.  “It’s a package of measures designed to help Petrobras,”
Pires said by telephone. “The ethanol industry needs more. It
needs long-term policies if you want to see new investments.”  Rising demand for auto fuel in Latin America’s biggest
economy led Petrobras to import a record 87,000 barrels a day of
gasoline last year, double the amount imported in 2011. Gasoline
sales increased 17 percent in 2012 to 570,000 barrels a day, the
company said in its April 26 earnings report.  Price Caps  The government, which  controls  Petrobras’s board with a
50.26 percent voting stake, caps the price the company can
charge fuel distributors as part of a policy to keep inflation
in check. It allowed Petrobras to raise diesel prices 11 percent
and gasoline prices 6.6 percent this year, narrowing the
discount to international prices.  Brazilian consumer prices rose 6.49 percent in the year
through April, near the high end of the central bank’s target
range.  Petrobras, led by Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster, is now selling gasoline to distributors for about 9
percent less than the price it pays abroad, said Auro Rozenbaum,
a Sao Paulo-based analyst at Banco Bradesco SA. The gap narrowed
from an average of about 20 percent last year, helped by the
domestic price rise and falling international prices, he said.  The ethanol measures “just put a short-term patch over the
problem,” Carlos Jesus, an analyst at Lisbon-based bank Caixa
Banco de Investimento SA, who rates the stock a hold, said in a
telephone interview. “If the gap between international and
domestic prices widens, you’ve got a problem again no matter how
much higher the ethanol blend is.”  Petrobras will post a profit of 31.8 billion reais this
year, according to the average of nine analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg, up from 21.2 billion in 2012.  “The company has improved operational efficiency and on
top of that you have the government measures,” Flesch said.
“It’s a good start and they are on the right track.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  