-- Pickens Buys Apache, Goodrich, Apple Shares in First Quarter
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-05-15T22:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/pickens-buys-apache-goodrich-apple-shares-in-first-quarter.html
Billionaire investor T. Boone Pickens
added shares in oil and natural gas producers  Apache Corp. (APA)  and
 Goodrich Petroleum Corp. (GDP)  to his energy fund during the first
quarter, along with a stake in technology company  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Pickens’ Dallas-based BP Capital Management LP bought
almost 125,000 shares of Apache valued at $9.6 million in the
three months ended March 31, according to a filing today with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The fund boosted
its stake in Goodrich by more than 500,000 shares to give it a
holding in the company worth $9.4 million.  Apache, based in Houston, has been the third-worst
 performer  on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Oil & Gas Exploration &
Production Index this year. On May 9, the company said it plans
to sell $4 billion of assets this year and announced a program
to buy back as many as 30 million shares. The moves follow a $16
billion acquisition spree in 2010 through 2012.  Goodrich, also based in Houston, has climbed 40 percent
this year. The company has properties in Texas and Louisiana,
including assets in the Eagle Ford and Haynesville shale
formations, according to its  website .  BP Capital bought new stakes in 14 companies, including
refiners such as  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  and  Phillips 66. (PSX)  It
also added a holding in  Halcon Resources Corp. (HK) , whose chief
executive officer is Floyd Wilson, formerly of Petrohawk Energy
Corp. The fund’s new stake in Apple, a departure from its energy
focus, is valued at about $221,000.  Shares Sold  Pickens’ fund sold its stakes in eight companies, including
producers such as  Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN)  and Range Resources
Corp., as well as drilling contractor  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)   The fund’s top holding by market value is  Pioneer Natural
Resources Co. (PXD)  BP Capital added more than 43,000 shares in the
company to give it a stake worth $12.9 million, the filing
showed.  The value of Pickens’s equity holdings rose less than 1
percent to $100.9 million as of March 31, from $100.8 million at
the end of the fourth quarter, according to the filing.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the SEC within 45 days of
each quarter’s end to show their U.S.-listed stocks, options and
convertible bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or
how much cash the firms hold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  