-- Pimco Attracted Deposits of $52 Billion in First Quarter
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-05-15T16:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/pimco-attracted-deposits-of-52-billion-in-first-quarter.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
whose co-founder  Bill Gross  said last week the 30-year  bull
market  in bonds is probably over, attracted the most client
deposits ever in the first quarter.  Pimco took in 40.4 billion euros ($51.9 billion), an 84
percent jump from a year earlier, according to a  presentation 
today by Pimco’s parent  Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s largest insurer.
Allianz said its asset management unit, which includes Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco and Allianz Global Investors, saw 
profit  jump 50 percent to 568 million euros.  Pimco’s co-chief investment officer Gross said May 10 that
the bull market for bonds probably ended at the end of April as
yields reached a low and prices peaked. Gross, who earned the
nickname “The Bond King” in media outlets and was named fixed-income manager of the decade in January 2010 by  Morningstar
Inc. (MORN) , said fixed-income returns will probably be in the range of
2 percent to 3 percent.  “There was a lot of discussion of asset rotation and
outflows” from bonds, Allianz Chief Financial Officer Dieter
Wemmer said during a conference call today with analysts. “When
you actually follow the details of the asset rotation, then
mainly the money-market funds are suffering and showing a lot of
outflows,” he said.  Gross spoke about an end to the fixed-income market rally
in 2010, saying in March of that year that bonds may have seen
their best days and then eight months later that a renewal of
asset purchases by the Federal Reserve may signify an end of the
bond bull market.  Pimco managed $2.04 trillion in assets as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  