-- Playing Defense Among U.S. Stocks Seen Fading: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-05-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/playing-defense-among-u-s-stocks-seen-fading-chart-of-the-day.html
Investors may be moving away from
shares of U.S. companies least affected by economic growth in
favor of those that benefit more from expansion, according to
 Russ Koesterich , BlackRock Inc.’s chief investment strategist.  As the CHART OF THE DAY shows, health care is the only one
of four so-called defensive industry groups that’s ahead of the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index by at least 1 percentage point this
quarter. The four were the only ones to advance in last year’s
second quarter among the index’s 10 main industry categories.  Shares of telephone companies lost almost all of their
second-quarter lead over the index yesterday. Makers of food,
beverages, household products and other consumer staples, along
with utilities, have failed to keep pace.  “The recent underperformance of some of the defensive
areas of the market makes sense,” Koesterich wrote two days ago
in a  report . He cited a swing in valuations of consumer staples,
health-care and utility stocks since 2009 that has made these
groups more costly than the  S&P 500  on average.  Utility shares in particular are “quite overpriced” and
poised to decline further, the New York-based strategist wrote.
The S&P 500 Utilities Index’s value at the end of April was the
highest relative to earnings since December 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. This month, the index has dropped 4
percent.  Anyone looking for cheap stocks ought to focus on energy
and technology, Koesterich wrote. The S&P 500 indexes for the
so-called cyclical industries have lower price-earnings ratios
than the broader gauge, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  