-- Primecap Rides Health to Top Growth Fund: Riskless Return
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-05-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/primecap-rides-health-to-top-growth-fund-riskless-return.html
Primecap Odyssey Aggressive Growth
Fund (POAGX) , run by a firm that’s best known as a  money manager  for
Vanguard Group Inc., beat peers over the past five years with a
heavy dose of health-care stocks, many held for years.  The $2.8 billion fund had the best risk-adjusted
performance among major U.S. growth funds, a category that
includes household names such as Fidelity Growth Company Fund
and Growth Fund of America, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS
RETURN RANKING. All eight mutual funds run by Pasadena,
California-based Primecap Management Co., including five for
Vanguard, have beaten the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since
inception.  “These guys have made some great calls on health care, and
as the numbers bear out, this has been a great fund to own,”
said Daniel Wiener, chief executive officer of Newton,
Massachusetts-based Adviser Investments, which manages $2.5
billion and owns shares of the fund.  The  fund , started in 2004, has about a third of its
holdings in medical stocks, a call that proved prescient in a
five-year stretch when health-care stocks returned more than
three times as much as the U.S. equity market. In letters to
shareholders, the Primecap managers have said they want to buy
quality stocks that offer better growth prospects than the
market expects.  Multimanager Model  Primecap was started in 1983 by three managers who
previously worked at Capital Group Cos. in  Los Angeles , which
runs the  American Funds , the third-largest mutual-fund family.
One of the founders, Howard B. Schow, died last year at age 84.
After two decades of sub-advising funds for Vanguard, Primecap
created three mutual funds under its own name in 2004, including
Odyssey Aggressive Growth.  Like their American Funds counterparts, the Primecap
investors divide a portfolio among several managers who each run
a piece independently. The fund’s turnover ratio, a gauge of how
much the holdings change in a year, is about one-fifth the
industry average, according to Morningstar.  “They look to make long-term investments in what they have
determined to be great companies,” Dan Newhall, a principal at
Vanguard.  Primecap Odyssey Aggressive Growth gained 3.3 percent,
adjusted for price swings, in the five years ended May 10,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its total return was
No. 1 among 87 U.S. growth funds with at least $2 billion in
assets, more than making up for volatility higher than about
two-thirds of the competition. The fund focuses on small and
mid-cap stocks, which tend to be more volatile than larger ones.  Beating American  The fund is run by Theo A. Kolokotrones, one of Primecap’s
founders; Joel P. Fried, who has been with the firm since 1986;
and Alfred Mordecai, who joined in 1997. The managers declined
to be interviewed for this article.  The $4.4 billion  Eaton Vance Atlanta Capital Smid-Cap Fund (EISMX) 
gained a risk-adjusted 2.9 percent, second-best in the group,
with the third-highest total return and about average
volatility. The $11.4 billion  T. Rowe Price New Horizons Fund (PRNHX) ,
rose almost 2.9 percent and ranked third, combining the second-best total return with above-average volatility.  American Funds has two competitors in the ranking. The
$29.4 billion Amcap Fund ranked 26th and the $121 billion Growth
Fund of America, once the biggest U.S. mutual fund, came in
69th. The $46 billion Fidelity Growth Company Fund, run by
Boston-based  Fidelity Investments , was 36th.  The risk-adjusted return isn’t annualized. It’s calculated
by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree of daily
price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk.
Higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  ‘Competitive Advantage’  The Primecap managers, in shareholder letters, stress the
progress being made in medical science, from development of new
drugs to advances in gene sequencing. Along with  information
technology , health care is a field where “the U.S. has a strong
competitive advantage relative to the rest of the world,” they
wrote in November.  Pharmacyclics Inc. (PCYC) , a New Brunswick, New Jersey-based drug
maker that is developing an experimental therapy for blood
cancers, made the  biggest contribution  to the fund’s returns
over the past five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Shares of Pharmacyclics rose more than 80-fold over the
past five years, from $1 to about $88 a share. The stock was the
fund’s largest  equity holding  as of March 28.  ‘Quadruples, Octuples’  Pharmacyclics and its partner, New Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , said in February they will submit their
ibrutinib therapy to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration this
year. The drug won “breakthrough” status from U.S. regulators,
making quicker approval possible.  Other medical stocks that have boosted returns include
 Cepheid Inc. (CPHD) , a Sunnyvale, California-based diagnostics company,
and cancer drugmaker  Seattle Genetics Inc. (SGEN)  of Bothell,
Washington. Both have soared at least fivefold since March 2009.  “We don’t go for 20 percent or 30 percent gains,” Schow
told Forbes magazine in 1994. “We go for triples, quadruples,
octuples. But that takes years.”  Several of the fund’s holdings were taken over during the
five-year period. American Italian Pasta Co., the stock with the
second-biggest contribution to the fund’s returns, almost
quintupled in price in the two years before it was bought out in
2010 by cereal maker Ralcorp Holdings Inc., one of several
stocks Primecap owned that benefited from acquisitions by bigger
companies.  Takeover Targets  The managers accumulated American Italian Pasta shares in
2006 and 2007 after the dry noodle maker lost fourth-fifths of
its value after a 2002 accounting scandal.  Another holding, Medarex Inc., a Tyler, Texas-based cancer
drugmaker, was taken over at a 90 percent premium in 2009. 3Par
Inc., a Fremont, California-based maker of data-storage systems,
more than tripled in price in 18 days before it agreed to be
acquired in 2010 after a bidding war.  Last month, Bayer AG agreed to buy  Conceptus Inc. (CPTS)  for about
$1.1 billion, or 20 percent above the previous closing price for
the  Mountain View , California-based contraception device maker.
Conceptus was the fund’s 13th-biggest equity holding.  “When your companies are acquired it is a reflection of
that fact that you are buying good quality franchises that are
undervalued in the marketplace,” Thomas Perkins, manager of the
$12.4 billion  Perkins Mid Cap Value Fund (JMVCX) , said in a telephone
interview.  ‘Disappointing’ 2007  Primecap manages $48 billion for Vanguard and about $70
billion altogether, according to the Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based firm. The $33 billion  Vanguard Primecap Fund (VPMCX)  returned 13
percent a year since it was opened in 1984, compared with 11
percent for the  S&P 500 Index (SPX) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The $8.7 billion  Vanguard Capital Opportunity Fund (VHCOX) 
gained 13 percent a year, versus 5.1 percent for the index since
February 1998, when Primecap took over.  Primecap Odyssey Aggressive Growth buys smaller stocks than
the other two Primecap branded funds, and holds shares that
“typically provide little current income,” according to the
Primecap website.  “They own more speculative companies in this fund,” David Kathman, an analyst for Morningstar, said in a telephone
interview. “They are willing to go out more on a limb.”  That willingness to take risks hurt the Primecap
aggressive-growth fund in 2007, when it trailed 93 percent of
peers, a slump the managers blamed on “disappointing stock
selection” in health-care and technology.  Poor Picks  Among picks that have misfired in recent years are
BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (BB)  of Waterloo, Ontario,
and Redwood City, California-based video-game maker Electronics
Arts Inc. In the year ended Oct. 31, the two holdings lost 61
percent and 47 percent respectively, according to a regulatory
filing by the fund. The managers acknowledged “poor stock
selection” in industrials, consumer stocks and technology in a
May 2012 letter to shareholders.  “These managers will have stretches when they
underperform,” Vanguard’s Newhall said in a telephone
interview.  Even so, the fund beat 68 percent of peers in 2011 and 94
percent last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock picking in technology has hurt performance over the
past five years, the data show. The fund’s technology stocks
returned about one-third as much as that sector in the S&P 500
Index. Primecap Odyssey Aggressive Growth had 29 percent of its
money in technology as of Jan. 31, almost twice the  weighting  in
the U.S. benchmark.  Avoiding Consensus  The managers did better staying away from most financial
and energy stocks, two sectors that lost money in the past five
years. The fund had 2.4 percent of assets in financials and 3.3
percent in energy as of Jan. 31, compared with about 17 percent
and 10 percent, respectively, in the index.  In a 2009 letter to shareholders, the managers said all
Primecap funds had been light on financials since they were
begun in 2004. In a November 2011 letter, they said energy had
done well over the past decade because of rising demand from
China, India and Brazil.  “Contrary to conventional wisdom, this trend is
unsustainable,” they wrote. “We have frequently found the
risks to be greatest in stocks and sectors that have been viewed
most favorably by the consensus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  