-- Putin Said to Face Rift on Central Bank Role in Economy Plan
-- B y   E v g e n i a   P i s m e n n a y a   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-05-16T14:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/putin-said-left-facing-rift-on-stimulus-in-economy-revival-plan.html
Russia ’s government is split over
charging the central bank to support the economy as part of
efforts to revive growth, leaving President  Vladimir Putin  to
decide, according to an official familiar with the proposals.  While the government suggests lowering bank loan rates,
slowing utility-price increases and compelling state companies
to pay out 25 percent of profit under international standards as
dividends, its plan doesn’t resolve the questions over Bank
Rossii’s responsibility for economic growth and how target
levels for credit may be set, the official said, asking not to
be identified because the recommendations aren’t public.  Putin, 60, who returned to the Kremlin for a third term a
year ago, faces the weakest economic expansion since a 2009
contraction as demand wanes for the country’s commodity exports.
Putin  told  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s government last
month to settle their differences and submit a plan by May 15 on
bolstering growth.  “The plan was sent to the Kremlin,” Putin’s spokesman
 Dmitry Peskov  said yesterday. “No meetings are planned yet.”  Expansion near 2 percent shows Russia is falling behind its
neighbors, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  told reporters
in Moscow today. “Such a growth trajectory amounts to failure
for Russia, and in that sense it’s unacceptable,” he said.  Policy Shift  The Economy Ministry has proposed making Bank Rossii, which
is shifting its policy regime to target inflation by 2015,
responsible for economic growth together with the government.
The ministry, led by Andrei Belousov, has also called for the
regulator to publish benchmarks for banks’ lending rates. The
measures are opposed by the Finance Ministry and central bank,
the official said.  The debate reflects efforts to “shift responsibility from
the government to the central bank,” said Vladimir Tikhomirov,
chief economist at Otkritie Financial Corp. in Moscow.  Bank Rossii has limited scope to reignite growth using its
interest-rate policy, with the economy remaining largely
beholden to the government, according to Tikhomirov. A
structural overhaul and a reduced state presence in the economy
are needed to improve Russia’s outlook, he said today by phone.  Bank Rossii left the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent
yesterday for an eighth month, brushing off government calls for
lower borrowing costs to stimulate the economy and repeating an
incremental cut to seldom used rates after inflation accelerated
last month.  ‘New Arguments’  “The Russian central bank has prioritized lowering
inflation, while the government wants economic stimulus, and the
Kremlin is finding new arguments to support its demands,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , chief economist at BNP Paribas SA in Moscow, said in
an e-mailed report. Putin is “very likely” to support amending
the  law  governing Bank Rossii and making the regulator
responsible for stimulating economic growth, she said.  High borrowing costs and tight budget policy are stifling
economic activity, with a stronger ruble hurting the
competitiveness of Russian exporters, Belousov said at a
government meeting today. Global economic woes are eroding
Russia’s overseas sales, with exports failing to grow in real
terms for eight consecutive quarters, he said.  The economy has slowed for five straight quarters on an
annual basis, bringing growth to 1.1 percent in the January-March period, according to Belousov.  The trend of slowing economic growth may be broken this
quarter, with expansion set to exceed 3 percent in the second
half, Belousov said.  Slowing Economy  Economic expansion decelerated to 2.1 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier. That prompted the  Economy Ministry 
last month lowered its forecast for expansion this year to 2.4
percent, down from a projected 3.7 percent. The inflation rate
rose to 7.2 percent in April from 7 percent increase in March,
remaining more than one percentage point higher than the central
bank’s target.  The ruble has lost about 4 percent against the dollar in
the past three months, the fourth-worst performance among more
than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
ruble advanced 0.3 percent against the dollar to 31.3495 as of
6:23 p.m. in Moscow.  The 50-stock  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index stock index slipped 1.2 percent to
1,375.48, its fifth day of declines. The benchmark gauge has
dropped 6.8 percent this year.  The revival plan, sent to Putin yesterday, includes a
budget rule that caps federal spending based on long-term  oil
prices  and forbids dipping into the country’s oil wealth funds
to cover gaps, the person said.  25% Payout  The Finance Ministry won backing in the plan sent to Putin
to make all state companies pay out a minimum 25 percent of
profit under International Financial Reporting Standards,
instead of Russian accounting rules, the person said. The
ministry’s alternative call to increase dividend payouts to 35
percent was rejected, the person said. The Economy Ministry’s
suggestion to cut the value-added tax and simultaneously
reinstate a levy on sales was also set aside, the person said.  The  federal budget  will get 153 billion rubles ($4.9
billion) in extra income in 2013 if all state companies set
their dividend payout at 25 percent, adding to this year’s
planned budget intake from dividends of 172 billion, the  Finance
Ministry  estimates.  “The plan is prepared,” Medvedev’s press secretary
Natalya Timakova said yesterday by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Evgenia Pismennaya in Moscow at 
 epismennaya@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  