-- Bomb Threats Against China Flights Unfounded, Xinhua Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-15T11:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/three-chinese-airlines-receive-threats-cancel-some-flights.html
Bomb threats that caused  China
Eastern Airlines Corp. (670)  and two other carriers to alter some
flight plans today were unfounded, Xinhua News Agency reported.  Police are investigating the matter, Xinhua said, citing
the Civil Aviation Authority of  China . China Eastern, Shenzhen
Airlines Co. and Juneyao Airlines Co. diverted or canceled at
least five flights after receiving the threats, according to
reports by state-run media and company statements.  Chinese airlines have received a number of bomb hoaxes in
the past year, resulting in at least three arrests. The carriers
have had to abort flights even as they contend with currency
fluctuations and  fuel costs  amid slower economic growth.  State-controlled China Eastern received a threat by phone
against its flight flying from Lanzhou to Xi’an today, Shen 
Xiaosheng, deputy head of the carrier’s media department, said 
today. Security checks showed everything about the flight was 
normal and the police are investigating, he said.  China Eastern fell 2.9 percent to close at HK$2.97 in Hong
Kong trading today, the lowest since Dec. 13. The  stock  has
dropped 3.9 percent this year, compared with a 1.7 percent
advance for the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Shenzhen Airlines, a unit of  Air China Ltd. (601111) , received
threats against three of its domestic flights. While one
aircraft returned to Nanjing, a second flight landed in Guilin
city, the carrier said in a statement posted on its official
microblog. A third flight was canceled before it took off.  Air China gained 0.3 percent to HK$6.72 after earlier
falling 0.9 percent. The stock has advanced 2.6 percent this
year.  Nothing Dangerous  A Juneyao Airlines flight from  Shanghai  to Shenzhen also
turned back this morning after getting a phone threat, Xinhua
reported on its microblog, citing the carrier. Police searched
the aircraft that was threatened and found nothing dangerous,
the news agency said.  In December, Chinese police detained a man in the central
province of Henan on suspicion of making a bomb threat that
forced two planes to remain grounded. In September, a man whose
bomb hoax caused an emergency landing of a Shenzhen Airlines
flight was detained in the central Chinese city of Wuhan.  A Chinese man was sentenced to one year and two months in
prison in July after calling Shanghai Pudong International
Airport claiming that he had planted a bomb on an Air China
flight and demanding 1 million  yuan  ($162,700) be remitted to
his bank account, according to Xinhua.  Security Measures  Chinese authorities have boosted security measures at
airports, such as limiting how much liquid passengers can carry
onto flights, after past attempts to hijack planes.  In June, Chinese police arrested six suspects for trying to
hijack an airplane in the northwestern region of Xinjiang. The
suspects were overpowered by the crew and passengers upon
attempting to hijack a Tianjin Airlines plane 10 minutes after
the flight took off from Hotan Airport. At least 10 of the 100
people on board were injured.  Chinese carriers have expanded their fleet and added more
routes as the nation’s  economic growth  spurs air travel demand
in the world’s most populous nation. Airlines in China will need
5,260 new planes worth $670 billion through 2031,  Boeing Co. (BA) 
forecast in September.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Tan in Beijing at 
 ztan39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  