-- Relational Investors Ups Timken Stake Amid Spinoff Battle
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-05-15T21:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/relational-investors-ups-timken-stake-amid-spinoff-battle.html
Ralph Whitworth’s Relational
Investors LLC increased its holding in Canton, Ohio-based
manufacturer  Timken Co. (TKR)  in the first quarter as he pressured the
company to sell its steel unit.  Relational bought 1.12 million shares in the three months
ended March 31, increasing its stake to 6.62 million shares
valued at $374 million, according to a filing today with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Relational is the
largest single shareholder in Timken with  6.9 percent  of
outstanding shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Whitworth won support in a non-binding vote of Timken
shareholders on May 7 urging management to spin off the
company’s steel unit from its larger ball-bearing business.
Directors will study the results and announce steps within 45
days, Chairman Ward J. Timken said in a statement the same day.  Relational and California State Teachers’ Retirement
System, a state pension fund, have been lobbying for a breakup
of Timken since November on the grounds that it would boost
 shareholder value . The board argued that a spinoff would boost
expenses, reduce efficiency and inflate borrowing costs for an
independent steel operation.  Relational sold its $519 million stake in Purchase, New
York-based  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and bought shares valued at $329 million
of Deerfield, Illinois-based food and beverage maker  Mondelez
International Inc. (MDLZ)   Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the SEC within 45 days of
each quarter’s end to show their U.S.-listed stocks, options and
convertible bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or
how much cash the firms hold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  