-- Bangladesh Safety Pact to Cost Retailers $60 Million
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-05-15T23:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/retailers-to-pay-up-to-2-5-million-each-in-bangladesh-agreement.html
Twenty-five retailers including
 Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA (ITX)  pledged at least $60 million
over five years to monitor safety in Bangladesh factories ahead
of a midnight deadline to sign the accord after a building
collapse that killed more than 1,100 people.  The pledge, which would cost a company like H&M less than
0.1 percent of its annual profit, calls for the appointment of a
committee that will oversee safety inspections and a training
program for workers, managers and security staff. Companies
would then be required to ensure their suppliers have enough
money to repair and renovate factories, according to the
agreement announced today by the IndustriALL global union.  The cost to retailers will be “far beyond” the $500,000 a
year that they have each agreed to contribute for the five years
of the agreement, Scott Nova, executive director of the Worker
Rights Consortium, a Washington-based labor-rights monitoring
group, said by phone today. The WRC has said it would take $3
billion of investment to bring factories up to snuff.  “The bottom line is that brands and retailers must make
sure that the factories have enough money to pay for the repairs
and renovations,” Nova said. “No one retailer is going to be
paying $200 million a year, but the cost will be substantive.”  Agreement Signatories  Retailers were discussing agreements on improving labor
conditions in Bangladesh both before and after the collapse of
the Rana Plaza factory complex -- the worst industrial incident
in the country’s history. The disaster killed at least 1,127
people and followed a series of deadly fires that already had
prompted activists to push Western retailers to take more
responsibility for  work conditions  there.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc, (MKS)   Loblaw Cos. (L)  and  Associated
British Foods Plc (ABF) ’s Primark clothing chain are among retailers
that have accepted today’s agreement.  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF) ,
based in  New Albany ,  Ohio , has given a verbal agreement to
IndustriAll to join the accord.  “We are committed to Bangladesh and support industrywide
efforts to improve safety standards,” Kim Harr, director of
sustainability at Abercrombie, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We believe this is the right thing to do to bring about
sustainable, effective change.”  Other signatories include  Carrefour SA (CA) ,  Tesco Plc (TSCO) ,  J
Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) ,  Next Plc (NXT) , El Corte Ingles, Mango and Benetton
Group SpA.  Non-Binding  “We recognize the commitment that these companies are
making towards ending the cycle of factory disasters in
 Bangladesh ,” IndustriALL general secretary Jyrki Raina said in
a  statement  on the union’s website. “We call on all other
global brands sourcing from Bangladesh to join us in making sure
that every garment worker in Bangladesh can work in safety.”  Five apparel and retail trade associations in the U.S. and
 Canada  announced the Safer Factories Initiative today.  The plan
is a non-binding proposal that brings together workers, factory
owners, buyers and the Bangladeshi government to develop an
industry standard on fire and building safety, Nate Herman, vice
president for international trade for the American Apparel and
Footwear Association, said in a phone interview. It also would
look to increase education, improve assessments and bolster
training, he said.  Global Unions  The trade groups are not working with the global unions and
advocacy groups involved in the accord H&M and other European
retailers have signed, Herman said. A draft of the group’s
proposal will be released in the coming weeks, he said.  “Clearly what’s happening here is the American companies
are all joining together under AAFA and the  National Retail
Federation  and they’re all together saying, ‘We don’t want to do
anything that’s legally binding,’” Liana Foxvog, organizing
director at International Labor Rights Forum, said of the Safer
Factories Initiative announcement in a phone interview. “We
know the track record of programs that are company-run.”  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  has said it won’t accept an agreement
“at this time” and will instead make public safety inspections
at all of its suppliers’ authorized factories in Bangladesh. A
Gap Inc. spokeswoman, Debbie Mesloh, said on May 13 that the
company is “ready to sign on” pending a change to the
provision regarding binding arbitration.  Fire Training  The money from the agreement announced by IndustriALL will
fund safety inspections, fire training and remediation programs,
the union said in the statement. A committee of unions and
retailers will be formed to oversee disputes, with any
arbitration award being enforceable in a court of law, the union
said. Inspections will be transparent and public statements will
be made on any factory that is not acting “expeditiously” to
implement upgrades.  “The whole issue in terms of safety and other standards
could be quite expensive to monitor and generally deliver,”
said Colin McLean, chief executive officer and fund manager at
SVM Asset Management in Edinburgh.  The largest companies such as Wal-Mart “can show some
leadership” on the matter, McLean said.  Wal-Mart said yesterday that reviews of the 279 supplier
plants will be completed within six months, and the factory
names and inspection information will be posted on its website.
The world’s largest retailer said it expects the costs of
“appropriate remediation and ongoing safety investments to be
appropriately reflected in its costs of goods purchased.”  ‘Sourcing Equation’  Retailers “do need to make the investment” because
Bangladesh is “a significant part of the sourcing equation,”
accounting for about 10 percent of overall production volume,
said Jamie Merriman, a retail analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  Still, the cost of manufacturing apparel in Bangladesh is
rising at a pace that means it may be no cheaper than  China 
within five years, according to Merriman. She cited Eurostat
figures showing that the cost of importing clothing into  Europe 
has been increasing about 4 percent a year from China for the
last 5 years, compared with about 7 percent from Bangladesh.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  