-- Tribune CEO Says Protest Over Koch Newspaper Sale Is Premature
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-05-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/tribune-ceo-says-furor-over-possible-newspaper-sale-is-premature.html
Tribune Co. (TRBAA)  Chief Executive Officer
Peter Liguori, responding to a protest over a possible sale of
the Los Angeles Times to Koch Industries Inc., said speculation
over potential buyers of the company’s papers is “premature.”  The Los Angeles County Federation of Labor rallied this
week outside the offices of Tribune Co. investor  Oaktree
Capital (OAK) , trying to ward off a sale of the Times to Koch
Industries, a privately held company controlled by the
billionaire Republican donors Charles and  David Koch .  Tribune, which emerged from bankruptcy at the end of 2012,
entered negotiations to sell its newspapers earlier this year,
according to people familiar with the process. In addition to
the Times, the company’s holdings include the Chicago Tribune,
the Baltimore Sun and six other daily papers.  “There’s been a lot of noise recently about the possible
sale of our newspapers and speculation on who the interested
parties might be,” Liguori said yesterday in a memo to
employees. “From the get-go, such speculation has been and is
premature. A sale transaction is only one of our possible
strategic options, and there are many others.”  Koch Industries has been cited among several potential
buyers -- a group that includes News Corp.,  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , Wrapports LLC and Freedom Communications Inc., people
familiar with the negotiations said in March.  Labor Objections  Labor groups, including the  AFL-CIO , have raised concerns
about a Koch purchase, citing the Koch brothers’ support for
initiatives such as  California ’s Proposition 32, a failed ballot
measure that would have prohibited unions from using payroll
deductions for political purposes without permission.  Melissa Cohlmia, a spokeswoman for Wichita, Kansas-based
Koch Industries, said it’s company policy not to discuss
potential acquisitions. While Koch Industries has never said
it’s interested in buying the Los Angeles Times, news reports
that it may make a bid began appearing in March.  “Setting aside for a moment the fact that we don’t own the
L.A. Times and that this is a protest about pure speculation in
the media, we encourage people to learn the truth about Koch
Industries,” she said in an e-mailed statement. About 30
percent of the company’s workers are represented by unions,
Cohlmia said.  “Our union employees, along with all Koch company
employees, play an important role in our continued growth and
success,” she said.  Tribune’s publishing group was valued at about $623 million
in its bankruptcy filings. Selling the papers would let the
company focus on its more lucrative television business.
Chicago-based Tribune operates 23 TV stations, along with
websites such as Cars.com.  Liguori said in the memo that the company has received “a
great deal of unsolicited interest in our publishing businesses,
which says a lot about the strength of our brands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  