-- Rice Sales From India to Drop on Vietnam, Pakistan Supplies
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-05-16T06:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/rice-sales-from-india-may-drop-from-record-on-vietnam-pakistan.html
Rice exports from  India , the world’s
second-largest grower, are poised to slump from a record as
supplies from  Vietnam , Myanmar and Pakistan widen a global glut,
according to the International Rice Research Institute.  Shipments including the aromatic basmati variety may
decline 32 percent to 7 million metric tons this year from 10.25
million tons in 2012, said Samarendu Mohanty, a senior economist
with the Philippines-based organization. This compares with 9
million tons estimated by the Foreign Agricultural Service of
the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Corn and wheat prices have fallen in  Chicago  this year,
while rice is little changed as farmers in the U.S. increase
production after the worst drought since the 1930s wilted crops
last year. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is bearish on agriculture
this year because of prospects for higher output in the Americas
and rising reserves, the bank said in a report May 14.  “There’s a lot of surplus globally and this is a buyer’s
market at present and this will continue until the end of this
year,” Mohanty said in a phone interview. “ Thailand  will be
selling aggressively at low prices to reduce its stockpile and
capture some of India’s markets of cheap quality rice in  Africa 
and the Middle East.”  Production of rice, the staple for half the world, will
climb 2.1 percent to 497.7 million tons in 2013, while world
inventories are forecast at 171.8 million tons as supply beats
consumption, says the United Nations’ Food & Agriculture
Organization. Thailand may ship 8.5 million tons to 9 million
tons, while Vietnam is set to sell 7 million tons this year,
Mohanty said. Thailand exported 6.95 million tons and Vietnam
sold 7.72 million tons in 2012, according to the Foreign
Agricultural Service.  Thai Stockpiles  Any decline in shipments from India will be met by supplies
from Vietnam, Pakistan, Myanmar and Cambodia and is unlikely to
boost global prices, said  Concepcion Calpe , the secretary of the
FAO’s inter-governmental rice group.  “The Thai government will have to sell the rice it owns at
a loss, which may bring world prices down,” she said in an e-mail yesterday. “Only if there is a major production shortfall
somewhere in the world, could this be avoided.”  Stockpiles in Thailand jumped after Prime Minister Yingluck
Shinawatra’s government started buying grain from farmers in
2011, fulfilling an election pledge to boost rural incomes.
Milled rice reserves in Thailand may jump 29 percent to 16.3
million tons in 2013, according to the Rome-based FAO.  Minimum Prices  The free-on-board price of 25 percent broken rice in
Vietnam, an Asian benchmark, has fallen to $361 a ton in April
from $373 in January, while the rate in India climbed to $418
from $398, according to FAO. Exporters in  Pakistan  offered rice
at $378 in April, FAO data show. Rough-rice futures on the
Chicago Board of Trade traded 0.3 percent lower at $15.180 per
100 pounds at 12:05 p.m. in Mumbai today.  Rice prices in India rose after the government increased
the minimum price at which state agencies buy the grain from
farmers, Mohanty said. The Commission for Agricultural Costs and
Prices, which advises the government, recommended that prices of
common paddy be raised to a record 1,310 rupees per 100
kilograms (220 pounds) for the 2013-2014 season.  “Rice offered by Vietnam and Myanmar is very much cheaper
than India,” said Prem Garg, managing director of Shri Lal
Mahal Ltd., a New Delhi-based exporter. “Our prices are higher
due to the minimum support price assured by the government to
the farmers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;  Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  