-- Rino International Settles SEC Executive-Spending Lawsuit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-15T17:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/rino-international-settles-sec-executive-spending-lawsuit.html
Rino International Corp. (RINO)  agreed to
settle a lawsuit in which the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission alleged two of its executives diverted $3.5 million
of company assets to buy a home, cars and designer clothing.  Dejun Zou and Jianping Qiu, husband and wife, will pay
investors at least that much money to resolve allegations that
they also engaged in a scheme to overstate revenue at the
Dalian, China-based maker of water-treatment equipment,
according to federal court filings today in Washington. Zou is
Rino’s chief executive officer, and Qiu is chairman.  Without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations, Zou and
Qiu also agreed to pay civil penalties of $150,000 and $100,000,
respectively, according to the court filings. The settlement
needs a judge’s approval.  Rino has fallen from a 52-week high of $20.74 in April 2010
to 5 cents a share. Its market capitalization is $600,000, down
from a high of about $500 million, according to the SEC.  The agency opened an investigation after  Muddy Waters
Research , a Hong Kong-based firm that analyzes Chinese
companies, issued a report saying Rino had falsified financial
documents.  On the day the company completed a public offering in
December 2009 that raised almost $100 million, Zou and Qiu used
$3.5 million of company funds to purchase a home in Orange
County,  California , according to the complaint.  Corporate Card  They used a corporate  credit card  the following July to buy
clothes from the from the Chanel and Valentino stores in  Beverly
Hills , California, the SEC alleged. Rino spent about $95,000 on
two Mercedes Benz vehicles that were used by the couple and
other employees in the U.S., according to the complaint.  Those expenses weren’t recorded as personal expenses or
disclosed in Rino’s filings with the regulator, the agency said.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Rino
International Corp., 13-cv-00711, U.S. District Court,  District
of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in  Washington 
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 