-- Roche Experimental Leukemia Drug Helps Shrink Tumors
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-05-16T08:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/roche-experimental-leukemia-drug-helps-shrink-tumors.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s experimental
leukemia drug shrank tumors in more patients when added to
chemotherapy, according to study results that may aid the
company in expanding its line of blood-cancer treatments.  Combined with chemotherapy, the drug, GA101, shrank tumors
in 76 percent of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia
compared with 30 percent for those getting just chemotherapy,
according to a summary of the 589-patient trial. The results
will be presented at the  American Society of Clinical Oncology ’s
meeting starting May 31 in  Chicago .  The data are the first results from a two-part trial as
Roche tries to position GA101 as heir to its top-selling drug
Rituxan, which will face competition from biosimilar products.
Results were good enough to show that GA101 may be more active
than Rituxan, said Bill Wierda, a professor in the department of
leukemia at the  University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center .  “It’s exciting because it appears that it may be more
active, but we need to see the final data,” Wierda, who has
worked with Roche on other research but wasn’t involved in this
trial, said in a telephone interview. “This is very encouraging
data.”  Roche fell 0.5 percent to 246.50 Swiss francs at 10:30 a.m.
in Zurich after rising as much as 1.1 percent earlier in the
session. The stock has gained 34 percent this year.  Study Findings  The Roche trial reported yesterday also compared Rituxan,
combined with chemotherapy, to chemotherapy alone. Both the
GA101 and Rituxan combinations performed better the solo
chemotherapy, with Rituxan shrinking tumors in about 66 percent
of patients -- less than GA101’s 76 percent.  Rituxan helped the patients live a median of 15.7 months
without their cancer progressing, compared with 10.8 months on
chemotherapy alone. Compared with GA101, chemotherapy patients
lived 10.9 months without cancer progressing. Patients who got
GA101 as well lived more than twice as long, 23 months, though
the results on that measure weren’t definitive.  The data will probably support GA101’s regulatory approval,
Wierda said, for the CLL patients the trial studied: older,
less-fit people with other ailments who haven’t had a CLL
treatment before.  A cancer of the bone marrow and white blood cells,  CLL  is
the second-most common type of leukemia in adults and usually
affects people in middle age or older, according to the  National
Institutes of Health . About 15,680 U.S. residents will probably
be diagnosed with the disease this year, and about 4,580 people
will die of it, according to National Cancer Institute
statistics. Patients in the trial were a median 73 years old.  Side Effects  About two-thirds of the patients who got GA101 experienced
side effects graded as severe or worse during the course of
treatment, compared with 41 percent who had chemotherapy alone.  “After the data are presented at ASCO we’ll have a new
view of the potency of this drug,” Niko Andre, Roche’s global
head of medical affairs, said in an interview before the results
were released. The second stage of the trial is a head-to-head
comparison of GA101 and Rituxan. Roche said in a statement that
it had filed for regulatory approval of the drug with the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  and the European Medicines Agency.  Like Rituxan, GA101 targets CD20, a type of immune cell
that plays a role in non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and chronic
lymphocytic leukemia. Roche is also testing the drug in non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma patients.  Smarter Version  “In theory it’s a smarter-designed version of Rituxan,”
Tim Race, a London-based analyst for Deutsche Bank AG, said in
an interview before the results were released. “The problem is
that Rituxan is a brilliant drug, and being better than a
brilliant drug is always difficult.”  Also known by its generic name rituximab, Rituxan  generated 
6.7 billion Swiss francs ($7.4 billion) in sales last year.
Roche’s patents on Rituxan expire in 2018 in the U.S. and
earlier in  Europe .  Biogen Idec (BIIB)  Inc. markets the drug in the U.S.  Also published yesterday before the cancer meeting were
final results for an early-stage study of  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s
idelalisib, also known as GS-1101. The medicine shrank tumors in
30 of the 54 CLL patients and patients lived a median of 17
months without their cancer progressing, the data showed.
Patients had taken a median of five other therapies before
starting idelalisib.  Gilead Drug  The drug, which Gilead gained in its 2011 purchase of
Calistoga Pharmaceuticals Inc. for $375 million, is in five
late-stage trials in CLL and indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma,
Gilead said on a May 2 conference call. It is being tested in
combination with drugs such as rituximab and bendamustine.  In the early-stage trial of Gilead’s drug alone, idelalisib
helped with splenomegaly, or enlarged spleen, and low blood cell
counts, the data showed. Most common adverse effects included
fatigue, diarrhea and fever.  “Drugs like idelalisib are probably going to change the
landscape of the disease in the next few years,” Jennifer
Brown, assistant professor of medicine at Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute and lead author of the study, said in a statement,
referring to CLL. “While this research is early and ongoing, we
hope this drug, along with others like it, will lead to
prolonged survival and eventually help turn CLL into a condition
that is treated like high  blood pressure .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  