-- Rossi Surges as Earnings Signal Strategy Shift: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-05-15T16:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/rossi-surges-as-earnings-signal-strategy-shift-sao-paulo-mover.html
Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  rallied after
the builder’s earnings report showed it focused on selling its
existing inventory of inexpensive houses and generating cash as
it shifted away from government-subsidized projects.  The shares rose 10 percent to 3.52 reais at 1:34 p.m. in
Sao Paulo after rallying 11 percent in the biggest intraday gain
since August 2012. It was the  best performer  on the Ibovespa
equity benchmark, which added 0.8 percent. Trading volume was
1.7 times the average daily volume of the past three months.  While Rossi  posted  an adjusted net loss of 10 million
reais, compared with the average estimate for a profit of 24.2
million reais among three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the
company said in its first-quarter earnings report that it didn’t
start any new projects during the period. The company has said
it plans to exit low-income housing after it built inexpensive
homes faster than it could sell them.  The existing inventory sales in the first quarter show
Rossi “remains focused on delivering legacy projects (bearing
low margins), such as those outside core regions and core income
segments, as well as generating cash, which in our opinion is
one of the most important steps in the turnaround process,”
analysts including Luiz Mauricio Garcia at Banco Bradesco SA’s
brokerage unit, wrote in a note to clients today.  Rossi’s first-quarter sales totaled 720 million reais,
exceeding the average estimate of 688.6 million reais among
eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company’s cash burn of
61 million reais during the period was offset by the sale of 97
million reais of land and “significantly less” than the
average of 234 million reais in each quarter of 2012, Bradesco’s
analysts wrote.  “The main positive highlight was the company’s ability to
keep cash burn in check,” Itau BBA Securities real-estate
analysts including David Lawant wrote in a research note to
clients today.  The Sao Paulo-based homebuilder’s shares have fallen 22
percent this year, compared with the Ibovespa’s 9.7 percent
decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  