-- Rubber Inventory at China’s Qingdao Port Slips From Record Level
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-15T10:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/rubber-inventory-at-china-s-qingdao-port-slips-from-record-level.html
Rubber inventory in Qingdao,  China ’s
main hub for the commodity used to make tires, fell from a
record as users drew down stocks amid a season lull in supply
from Southeast Asia.  Stockpiles in the bonded zone, where traders store
deliveries before paying duties, fell to 363,300 metric tons,
from the record 371,100 tons on April 26, Cai Zhiwei, general
manager at the Qingdao International Rubber Exchange Market,
said in an interview today. China accounts for 33 percent of
global demand and tires represent 70 percent of natural-rubber
consumption in the country, according to exchange’s estimate.  Benchmark rubber futures traded in Tokyo neared a  bull
market  this week, a month after slumping into bear territory as
 Japan’s currency  weakened and seasonal demand from China picked
up. The low production period, or so-called wintering season,
normally ends in May in Thailand, the world’s largest producer
and exporter.  “The inventory draw-down is in line with the seasonal
pattern, and doesn’t seem to be significant enough to indicate a
turnaround in supply and demand,” Zhao Zhong, an analyst at
China Cifco Futures Co., said by phone from Chongqing today.
“We may see Qingdao inventory rise again when wintering
finishes and supply comes on stream again from the  Southeast
Asia .”  Qingdao is in Shandong province, the source of about half
of China’s tire output, according to data compiled by  Sri Trang
Agro-Industry Pcl (STA) , Thailand’s largest publicly traded rubber
exporter.  Rubber for delivery in October traded on Tokyo Commodity
Exchange lost 1.7 percent today to settle at 282.7 yen a
kilogram ($2,759 a metric ton). The contract for September
delivery traded on the Shanghai Futures Exchange fell 2 percent
to 19,875  yuan  ($3,234) a ton, extending its slump this year to
25 percent.  Deliverable stocks of natural rubber jumped 23 percent this
year to 121,090 tons on the Shanghai exchange, near the highest
level since February 2010, bourse data showed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  