-- Russia Ousting U.S. Official Accused of Being CIA Spy
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-05-15T11:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/russia-ousting-u-s-official-accused-of-being-cia-spy.html
Russian authorities are expelling a
U.S. official they accused of being a CIA officer who offered a
member of the special services in Moscow as much as $1 million a
year for information.  The accused spy, identified as Ryan Christopher Fogle, was
detained in a sting operation on May 13, the Federal Security
Service said yesterday on its  website . Fogle worked under a
cover in the U.S. embassy’s  political section , according to the
FSB, as the successor to the Soviet-era KGB is known in Russian.  Russia  declared Fogle persona non grata and is demanding
that he be sent home as soon as possible, the Foreign Ministry
said in a  statement  yesterday. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister
Sergei Ryabkov conveyed “ protest ” over the incident to U.S.
Ambassador  Michael McFaul  at a meeting in Moscow today.  The incident marks a new source of tension between Russia
and the U.S. Fogle’s arrest shows that intelligence services are
resuming their Cold War spying tactics after the end of the
“reset” policy championed by former President  Dmitry Medvedev 
and his U.S. counterpart Barack Obama, said Nikolai Kovalyov,
who ran the FSB from 1996 to 1998, when he was replaced by
 Vladimir Putin .  “This won’t lead to global changes in relations between
countries and security services, though it is a signal that
Americans have returned to their old tactics and methods of
work,” Kovalyov, now a member of the security committee in the
lower house of parliament, said by telephone from Moscow.  Recruitment Foiled  The man the FSB identified as Fogle was detained in a
nighttime operation that included video footage and  photographs 
that were later distributed to media outlets and broadcast on
state television. Fogle was returned to the embassy yesterday,
an on-duty FSB officer said by phone.  An identified Russian official shown in the  video  says
Fogle had tried to recruit an officer linked to counter-terrorism work in the North Caucasus, an area where intelligence
services of the former  Cold War  foes have sought to broaden
cooperation in the aftermath of the  Boston  Marathon bombing
case.  “At first we didn’t even believe this could be happening
because as you know the FSB actively helping with the
investigation of the Boston bombings and with information on
threats to the U.S. national security,” the officer tells
American officials in the video.  Tsarnaev Brothers  Tamerlan Tsarnaev and his younger brother Dzhokhar, ethnic
Chechens who moved to the U.S. from the Dagestan region of
Russia, are suspected of detonating the two bombs that killed
three people and injured more than 260 at the Boston Marathon
last month. The older brother was killed during a shootout with
police on April 19, while the younger one is being held at a
federal prison hospital outside Boston.  Kovalyov said Russian leaders are puzzled by what he said
was U.S. reluctance to work more closely with Russia on the
global war on terror.  “After the Boston bombings, the whole world saw Russia’s
readiness to cooperate against a common threat, but for some
reason the Americans didn’t use this chance,” Kovalyov said in
the interview yesterday.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said two weeks ago that Russia
had been “very cooperative” in the investigation of the
attack, which included a visit to Dagestan by a team of FBI
agents.  Russian intelligence agencies had told the FBI that
Tamerlan Tsarnaev had become radical and asked for information
about him, prompting the FBI to open an inquiry. The Central
Intelligence Agency was also provided with the information.  No Response  The Russians didn’t respond to requests for more
information after the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  conducted
interviews and searched U.S. terrorism and crime databases,
finding nothing incriminating, according to U.S. officials who
asked not to be identified discussing intelligence matters.  “There are still suspicions sometimes between our
intelligence and law enforcement agencies that date back 10, 20,
30 years, back to the Cold War,” Obama said at a White House
news briefing on April 30.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  refused to comment on
the Russian charges today and emphasized U.S.-Russia cooperation
on  Syria  instead as he stood beside Russian Foreign Minister
 Sergei Lavrov  at a meeting of the Arctic Council in Kiruna,
 Sweden . In  Washington , Patrick Ventrell, a State Department
spokesman, declined yesterday to answer repeated questions about
the Russian spying allegations and Fogle’s role.  Detained, Released  “We can confirm that an officer at our U.S. embassy in
Moscow was briefly detained and was released,” Ventrell said.
“We have seen the Russian Foreign Ministry announcement, and we
have no further comment at this time.” He declined to say
whether Fogle was still in Russia.  One photo of the nighttime operation shows the contents of
the backpack the FSB said Fogle was carrying at the time of his
arrest, neatly arrayed on a table, including dark and light
wigs, sunglasses, a compass, a map of Moscow, two knives, a
notepad, a microphone, a plastic cigarette lighter and an RFID
shield.  Another image showed what the FSB said was a printed letter
in Russian that Fogle intended to deliver to the target of a
recruitment effort. The missive, which starts, “Dear Friend,”
promises $100,000 just to “discuss possible cooperation” and
as much as $1 million a year for supplying information demanded
by the U.S., state-run RT television said on its website. It
instructs the recipient to open a new Gmail account, write an e-mail to  unbacggdA@gmail.com  and wait a week for a reply, RT
said.  ‘Numerous Attempts’  The FSB said in its statement the Fogle case is just the
latest in “numerous attempts” by the U.S. recently to recruit
Russians in  law enforcement  and the security services.  Kovalyov said relations have worsened since the U.S. passed
the so-called Magnitsky Act last year that sanctions Russian
officials deemed complicit in human rights abuses. The bill is
named for a legal adviser who accused officials of stealing $230
million from Russia’s treasury. Supporters of Sergei Magnitsky,
who was arrested on tax evasion charges and died in jail in
2009, say he was tortured and denied medical care.  Putin, who returned to the presidency a year ago, responded
by banning adoptions of Russian children by American families
and urged the Obama administration to pressure Congress to tame
its hostile attitude toward Russia.  “While the presidents of our countries confirmed their
readiness to expand bilateral cooperation, including the
intelligence services’ fight against international terrorism,
such provocative acts in the spirit of the Cold War hardly
facilitate the strengthening of mutual trust,” said Russian
Foreign Ministry in the statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  