-- Russia Spurs Calls to Cut as Inflation Tops Economic Woes
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-05-15T14:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/russia-holds-rates-for-eighth-month-with-inflation-above-target.html
Russia left its main  interest rates 
unchanged for an eighth month, brushing off government calls for
lower borrowing costs and repeating an incremental cut to seldom
used rates after inflation accelerated last month.  Bank Rossii kept the  refinancing rate  at 8.25 percent, half
a point above the record low, the Moscow-based regulator said in
a  statement  on its website today. The move was forecast by 18 of
24 economists in a Bloomberg survey, with six predicting a
quarter-point cut. The main lending and deposit rates were also
kept unchanged.  Outgoing Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev has limited
room for policy easing with inflation more than a percentage
point above target, putting him at odds with an international
push for monetary stimulus this month. As officials from
 Australia  to  Israel  lower borrowing costs to recharge growth,
his successor, President  Vladimir Putin ’s economic aide  Elvira Nabiullina , is helping prepare a plan to revive an economy
that’s expanding at the weakest pace since a 2009 contraction.  “The central bank is remaining very cautious,” Maxim Oreshkin, chief economist for Russia at VTB Capital in Moscow,
said by phone. “Inflation clearly remains the central bank’s
top priority.”  The ruble paired losses against the dollar following the
announcement and was 0.5 percent weaker at 31.521 as of 5:20
p.m. in Moscow. The 50-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added to losses and was
1.3 percent lower at 1,287.28, heading for the lowest close
since May 2.  Tight Policy  Some government members, including Economy Minister Andrei Belousov, have criticized  Russia ’s restrictive monetary policy,
arguing that the economy may slide into a recession later this
year without stimulus. Putin called the regulator’s stance
“largely justified” last month in a televised show where he
took questions from the public, saying the central bank needed
to rein in inflation.  Gross domestic product  grew 2.1 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since a 2009
contraction. The Economy Ministry last month lowered its
forecast for gross domestic product to expand this year by 2.4
percent, down from a projected 3.7 percent increase in an
outlook published in September.  Policy makers held their main lending rates, the overnight
and one-week auction-based repurchase rates, at 5.50 percent,
while the overnight deposit rate was kept at 4.50 percent. Costs
on some longer-term loans, including those backed by gold and
non-marketable assets, were reduced by a quarter-point for a
second month.  Assessing Risks  “The decision was made based on an assessment of
inflationary risks and the prospects for economic growth,” the
central bank said in the statement. Moving the longer-term rates
closer to the main policy tools will “strengthen the
effectiveness of the interest rate channel’s transmission
mechanism for monetary policy.”  Bank Rossii is targeting a range of 5 percent to 6 percent
for consumer-price  growth  this year after overshooting the same
goal in 2012 to finish at 6.6 percent. Inflation will gradually
slow this year and is “likely” to return to the target range
by year-end, Bank Rossii said in a quarterly  report  on monetary
policy.  Still, Ignatiev called April’s reductions a “first
decision” toward easing. Bank Rossii will wait to see a
sustained slowdown in inflation before cutting the main
borrowing costs, he said. The decreases applied to loans
representing about one-fifth of the central bank’s refinancing
operations, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  ‘Dovish’ Turn  “We believe that the decision to lower longer-term rates
likely marks the start of a more dovish stance on the part of
the monetary authorities, which may lead to further interest
rate decreases this year to support growth,”  Yaroslav Lissovolik , Moscow-based head of research at Deutsche Bank AG,
said in an e-mailed note.  Inflation expectations among the public “fell
significantly” since December, the central bank said yesterday,
citing a survey of 2,000 people conducted March 25-April 1. Even
so, consumer prices advanced 7.2 percent in April from a year
earlier, faster than March’s 7 percent increase.  Policy makers’ assessment of the risks to growth and from
inflation “looks like a copy-paste from April,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for Russia at ING Groep NV, said in a
note.  “The central bank sticks to its guns, resisting pressure
from outside,” he said. “No change in the policy statement and
the unchanged refinancing rate, which the central bank uses as a
signaling tool for further policy moves, might indicate a chance
for a similar outcome in June.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  