-- Rutgers Hires Julie Hermann as First Female Athletic Director
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/rutgers-hires-hermann-as-athletic-director-star-ledger-reports.html
Rutgers University  hired Julie Hermann as athletic director to replace Tim Pernetti, making her
the first woman in school history to hold the position.  Hermann, 49, was most recently the senior associate
athletic director at the University of Louisville. She was
selected over  University of Wisconsin  deputy athletic director
Sean Frazier,  the Star-Ledger of Newark, New Jersey, reported ,
citing two unidentified people familiar with the situation.  Hermann was chosen following an emergency vote by the 11-member Board of Governors at Rutgers after the school’s six-member executive athletic committee was deadlocked at 3-3
between Hermann and Frazier, the Ledger said.  “I’m a builder at heart and part of my attraction for this
opportunity is knowing that many things are coming together,”
Hermann said yesterday at a news conference. “A fantastic
academic institution, an athletic department with some great
tradition and the opportunity in the Big Ten, which we will take
advantage of to continue to position ourselves to get as
competitive as possible in as many sports as we can.”  Hermann becomes the third woman to hold the top athletic
department position at a school in a Bowl Championship Series
conference, joining Debbie Yow at North Carolina State and Sandy Barbour at the  University of California , Berkeley.  Hermann, an all-conference volleyball player at the
 University of Nebraska  from 1981-84, spent the past 16 seasons
in athletic administration at Louisville.  As executive senior associate athletic director, she was
responsible for supervising 20 of Louisville’s 23 sports as well
as student development, sports medicine, strength and
conditioning, marketing and the academic unit, according to her
 profile  on the school’s website.  Football, Basketball  Football and men’s basketball weren’t among the sports she
was responsible for overseeing while at Louisville, whose
football team won the Sugar Bowl last season and whose men’s
basketball team won the national championship.  Hermann, who is also the president of the National
Association of Collegiate Women’s Administrators, will oversee
Rutgers through a transition year in the American Athletic
Conference before it moves to the Big Ten conference in 2014.
The  Big East  becomes the American Athletic Conference at the end
of the 2012-13 sports season.  Pernetti stepped down as athletic director on April 5 amid
questions about his handling of evidence that former men’s
basketball coach Mike Rice physically and verbally abused
players. Rice was fired by the school three days after the
national telecast of a video showed him punishing players by
throwing balls at their heads in practice and attacking them
with vulgarities and gay slurs.  Rice Scandal  Pernetti, with the support of Rutgers President Robert Barchi, initially suspended Rice after the school’s former
director of player development made him aware of the coach’s
behavior. Pernetti said he was accountable for the decision and
came under fire from faculty members and  New Jersey  politicians
after video of Rice’s transgressions aired last month.  Governor  Chris Christie  had called on Pernetti to explain
why Rice wasn’t fired in December.  The exits of Rice and Pernetti came less than a month after
Rutgers was invited to join the Big Ten.  “It is a new day. It is already fixed,” Hermann said of
any concerns about improper coaching at the school. “That will
never happen again on this prestigious, fantastic campus.”  Pernetti, whose annual salary was $452,769, signed a five-year contract in 2009, with benefits including a $12,000 car
stipend and an opportunity to earn as much as $50,000 in bonuses
for reaching academic, financial and competitive goals. Hermann
will receive an annual base salary of $450,000 and is eligible
for annual performance bonuses of up to $50,000, the school said
in a statement.  Pernetti Tenure  Pernetti was hired in February 2009 with a charge to cut
the $17.9 million in education funds and $7.8 million in student
fees that the athletic department received as a subsidy.  Even after selling football stadium naming rights, getting
bigger donations from boosters, outsourcing ticket operations
and cutting staff, the subsidy grew.  By June last year, Pernetti was tapping the university for
$18.46 million and students for another $9.52 million, bringing
total support to $28 million, one of the highest subsidies in
the nation, according to revenue and expense reports obtained
from the school by  Bloomberg News  using open-records requests.  Rutgers said it expected to erase the subsidy with the move
to the Big Ten conference.  Before joining Louisville’s athletic department, Hermann
spent one year as an assistant coach for USA Volleyball and six
seasons as women’s volleyball coach at the University of
 Tennessee . She also had coaching stints at Northern  Arizona ,
Georgia and  Wyoming  after helping  Nebraska  win four conference
championships as a player.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  