-- RWE Quarterly Profit Rises on Cost Savings, Gas Contracts
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-05-15T15:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/rwe-quarterly-profit-rises-on-cost-savings-gas-contracts.html
RWE AG (RWE) ’s first-quarter profit beat
analysts’ consensus estimates for the first time in more than a
year, rising as  Germany ’s second-largest utility cut costs.  Recurrent net income, used to work out dividends, gained to
1.30 billion euros ($1.7 billion) from 1.29 billion euros, the
Essen-based company said today in a statement. The result beat
the 1.20 billion-euro average of eight estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, exceeding consensus for the first time in five
quarters. Sales gained 2.9 percent to 16.1 billion euros.  “Recurrent net income is slightly above my expectations,”
Daniel Seidenspinner, a B. Metzler Seel Sohn & Co. KGaA analyst,
said from  Frankfurt . “Efficiency measures are effective. One-time effects helped, e.g. the cold weather increased gas use.”  The utility and larger rival EON SE are reducing costs and
selling assets after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  ordered the
closing of all nuclear reactors by 2022 following the Fukushima
disaster in  Japan . RWE said in March it would sell its Dea oil
unit to cut spending. It’s seeking to raise as much as 5 billion
euros from the sale, a person familiar with the matter said.  RWE affirmed its full-year target for recurrent net income
of 2.4 billion euros and operating profit of 5.9 billion euros,
below last year’s level, according to today’s statement.  “Positive effects from the efficiency program and
improvements in gas procurement conditions were contrasted by
substantial earnings shortfalls in the conventional power
generation business,” it said. “These factors will continue to
have an impact on business performance for the year.”  RWE fell 0.7 percent to 27.41 in Frankfurt, while EON
dropped 0.5 percent to 12.95 euros.  EON last week reported a 16 percent decline in first-quarter earnings because of asset sales, lower output and
narrower margins in power generation from fossil fuels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  