-- San Miguel Says May Scrap Deal to Sell Bank Stake to CIMB
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-05-15T04:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/san-miguel-says-deal-to-sell-bank-stake-to-cimb-may-be-scrapped.html
San Miguel  Corp. may walk away from a
12.2 billion-peso ($297 million) agreement to sell its majority
stake in Bank of Commerce to  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)   San Miguel, the Philippines’  largest  company, confirmed in
a stock exchange filing President Ramon Ang’s comments that he
would know in about a week whether to proceed with or scrap the
CIMB deal. The Philippine Daily Inquirer  published  Ang’s
comments yesterday and reported that Philippine laws restricting
foreign ownership of real estate have become a stumbling block,
citing unidentified sources.  “It would be a lost opportunity for both CIMB and San
Miguel,” Astro del Castillo, managing director of First Grade
Holdings Inc., said an interview today. Sale proceeds would have
helped San Miguel expand into other ventures, while CIMB would
gain a foothold in the  Philippines , del Castillo said.  CIMB in May 2012 agreed to buy a 60 percent stake in Bank
of Commerce from San Miguel and other shareholders, helping the
Kuala Lumpur-based bank expand its Southeast Asia footprint. The
delay is being caused by CIMB’s lack of legal capability to
absorb Bank of Commerce’s real estate operations and has nothing
to do with valuation or asset quality, according to the report.  CIMB didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment today. The deal is in its final stages, Ang was quoted
as saying. If it collapses, he will run the bank and increase
its capital by $2 billion, he said. The comments were confirmed
in San Miguel’s statement today.  The stake sale helps San Miguel exit the banking business
and would bolster its growth beyond traditional food and drinks.
The Manila-based company has expanded into airlines, oil and
electricity and is in talks to invest in an energy venture
through a $5 billion equity investment, Ang said on May 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  