-- Sandberg Delay in Lawsuit Deposition Must End, Judge Says
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-05-15T23:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/sandberg-delay-in-lawsuit-deposition-must-end-judge-says.html
Lawyers who want to interview
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg as part of
lawsuit alleging that seven technology companies broke antitrust
laws should seek a court order compelling her to cooperate, a
federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh in San Jose, California,
told plaintiffs’ lawyers that they need to “bring to a close”
Sandberg’s deposition after Sandberg’s attorneys resisted a
subpoena. Koh ordered a hearing to resolve the matter after
learning today that a similar proceeding set for last month with
a magistrate judge didn’t take place.  “I think you’re going to get some hours with her, so why
are you waiting?” Koh asked Kelly Dermody, a lawyer for the
employees. “I don’t see any point in delaying this any further.
Set the hearing and get a ruling,” Koh added. “Either you need
her or you don’t.”  Defendants in the 2011 case include  Google Inc., (GOOG)  where
Sandberg was formerly an executive,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Intuit Inc. (INTU) ,
 Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Pixar
animation unit and Lucasfilm Ltd. Neither Facebook nor Sandberg
is a defendant. Plaintiffs’ lawyers contend senior officers at
the companies personally entered into non-solicitation
agreements to eliminate competition.  Sarah Feinberg, a spokeswoman for Menlo Park, California-based Facebook, declined to comment today on the Sandberg
deposition.  2008 Hiring  Sandberg was hired as COO of Facebook in 2008 and appointed
as the company’s first female director in June 2012. She is also
a director of Walt Disney.  Before joining Facebook, Sandberg was vice president of
global online sales and operations at Google.  Dermody told the judge today she’s been working with
Sandberg’s lawyers to get questions answered without need for a
deposition.  “We have been working very cooperatively to see if it can
be avoided,” Dermody said.  Lawyers for the employees said a March 22 deposition of
Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  and a March 25
deposition of Intuit executive Alex Lintner confirmed Sandberg’s
“relevance” to the antitrust case.  “Google believes that Ms. Sandberg is unlikely to offer
any testimony that would be admissible or lead to admissible
evidence,” defense lawyers said in a March 29 court filing.  The San Jose case is In Re High-Tech Employee Antitrust
Litigation, 11-cv-02509, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of California (San Jose). A previous case is U.S. v. Adobe
Systems, 10-cv-01629, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  