-- Senate Democrats Urge Delay in Student Loan Rate Increase
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2013-05-15T18:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/senate-democrats-urge-delay-in-student-loan-rate-increase.html
U.S. Senate Democrats today called
for a two-year postponement of a scheduled increase in the
 interest rate  charged on education loans to millions of college
students.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and other top Democrats
unveiled legislation that would head off an increase set to hit
in July and would instead extend the current 3.4 percent rate
into 2015. They rejected President  Barack Obama ’s call for more
sweeping changes in the loan program, including replacing its
fixed rates with ones that would vary with market conditions.  Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat who heads the Senate
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, said that while
he supports allowing rates to float, with certain conditions,
lawmakers don’t have time to sort out such big changes before
July.  “We just want to do something very simple,” said Harkin,
whose panel has jurisdiction over the loan programs. “Just
leave it the way it is.”  Today’s measure marks the latest in a series of proposals
aimed at heading off a July 1 increase that will lift the charge
on subsidized Stafford loans to 6.8 percent. That’s the legacy
of a 2007 law in which Democrats gradually cut rates before
allowing them to jump back up because they couldn’t agree on how
to finance a more permanent reduction. The federal government is
the source of most  student loans .  Floating Rate  In its fiscal 2014 budget request, the Obama administration
proposed pegging loan interest rates to the rate of the  10-year
Treasury note  plus various surcharges, a plan that worries some
education advocates because it wouldn’t cap the maximum rate
that could be charged. Rates could get very high in the future
when interest rates return to historic levels, easily topping
the scheduled doubling of the current rate in July.  House Republicans have seconded the administration’s plan.
Last week they unveiled a bill, H.R. 953, that also would allow
rates to float, though their plan would limit how high the rates
could go.  “Actually, some of what the House did is pretty good,”
said Harkin, adding that he believed lawmakers should leave more
permanent changes to the reauthorization of the Higher Education
Act.  Senate Democrats said their plan wouldn’t add to the budget
 deficit  because its cost would be offset by curbing tax breaks
for retirement savings accounts, oil and gas companies and
foreign companies.  The plan is backed by the chamber’s entire Democratic
leadership, including Senators  Dick Durbin  of Illinois,  Charles Schumer  of New York and  Patty Murray  of Washington. Senator
 Elizabeth Warren , a Massachusetts Democrat, has a competing
proposal, S. 897, that would cut rates even more by pegging them
to whatever the Federal Reserve charges banks for loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  