-- SingTel Banks Said to Plan Debt Package for Optus Satellite Sale
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-05-15T04:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/singtel-banks-said-to-plan-debt-package-for-optus-satellite-sale.html
Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse
Group AG will offer a highly-leveraged debt package to help
 Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)  sell its Optus Satellite
division, according to three people familiar with the matter.  The banks, hired in March by  Southeast Asia ’s largest phone
company to look at options for the Australian unit, will offer
the pre-arranged funding to potential buyers, the people said,
declining to be named as the details are private. Information
memorandums for the sale will be sent out within two weeks, one
of the people said.  A sale of the division, which Nomura Holdings Inc. said may
be worth A$2 billion ($2 billion), would provide cash for
acquisitions as the company, known as SingTel, rolls out a
mobile network in Australia amid mounting competition that’s
curbing growth in Optus, its biggest unit by sales. SingTel
today said it plans to spend S$2 billion ($1.6 billion) on
acquisitions after fourth-quarter  profit  fell 33 percent.  Michele Batchelor, a Singapore-based spokeswoman for
SingTel, declined to comment on the proposed financing.  Optus Satellite has five satellites in orbit with a sixth
to be launched this year, and in 2011 signed a five-year, A$200
million deal to provide support to NBN Co., which is building a
national broadband network in  Australia .  High Leverage  A number of parties had signed confidentiality agreements
to look at the unit, two of the people said.  The banks may offer a high level of leverage, lending more
than six times Optus Satellite’s earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, two of the people said. Among
more than 200 telecommunications companies globally with sales
higher than $100 million, the average net debt to Ebitda ratio
was 2.01 and the median was 1.16, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Optus Satellite  had revenue of A$319 million last financial
year, according to SingTel, which doesn’t disclose earnings for
the unit.  The banks could finance the deal through either high-yield
bonds or the U.S. term loan B market, the two people said.  The debt package would aim to attract bidders including
strategic buyers, infrastructure investors and private equity
firms that have previously bought satellite businesses, the
people said.  Potential buyers include European and north American
satellite companies, such as Intelsat Global Holdings SA,
Eutelsat SA,  SES (SESG)  SA, and  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT) , as well as infrastructure
funds, Jeffrey Tan, an analyst at  OSK Holdings Bhd. (OSK) , said in
March.  A sale will face hurdles because of the national security
implications of selling satellites that carry Australia’s
defense communications, said  Simon Morris , a Melbourne-based
partner with Corrs Chambers Westgarth who’s given legal advice
on cross-border transactions, in a March interview. It would
also need to be approved under U.S. rules on the export of
satellite technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  