-- Singapore April Residential Sales Decline 51% From Record
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-05-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/singapore-april-residential-sales-decline-51-from-record.html
Singapore ’s April home sales dropped
51 percent from a record in March as developers marketed fewer
projects as residential prices posted the smallest gain in three
quarters.  Home sales fell to 1,375 units in April, according to data
from the  Urban Redevelopment Authority  released today. Sales in
March rose to a record 2,793 units.  The island-state’s private residential property  price index 
rose 0.6 percent in the three months ended March, the slowest
pace in three quarters, according to data by the authority.
Government measures in January, the seventh round of curbs in
about four years, included an increase in the stamp duties for
homebuyers by 5 percentage points to 7 percentage points.  “Developers couldn’t sustain the pace of launches they had
in March, so we are seeing fewer sales in April,” said Alan
Cheong, senior director of research and consultancy at broker
Savills (Singapore) Pte. “The month of May will probably see
the same pace of launches as April. We may see a pickup from the
start of the third quarter.”  Home sales rose to a record in March, rebounding from a 14-month low in February and the highest since the government
started releasing the information in June 2007, the data showed.  The curbs in January also included higher taxes on
permanent residents when they buy their first home, and for
Singaporeans starting with their second purchase.  Singapore will offer five residential sites in May which
can yield about 2,725 homes, according to a government statement
today.  More Taxes  Home sales reached 22,699 units in 2012, based on the
government data that dates back to 1996.  Singapore also plans to raise taxes for luxury homeowners
and residential properties that are rented out. The higher tax
will apply to the top 1 percent of homeowners who live in their
own residences, or 12,000 properties, Singapore Finance Minister
 Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said in his budget speech on Feb. 25.  The government tightened loan-to-value limits for buyers
seeking a second mortgage, referring to the amount they are
allowed to borrow relative to the value of their properties. The
cash down-payment will rise to 25 percent from 10 percent
starting from the second loan, it said.  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when the government barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest
payments for apartments still being built.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story: ]
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  