-- GE Doesn’t Stall Way to Find Callers Opposed by E-ZPass
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-05-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/smartphone-locating-aid-for-rescues-pushed-as-ge-objects.html
Technology to help locate wireless
callers inside buildings got past objections from  General
Electric Co. (GE) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and the  E-ZPass Group , who told U.S.
regulators that it may interfere with millions of devices.  Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski  on May 14 asked fellow commissioners to approve
closely held Progeny LMS LLC’s indoor-location system, Neil Grace, an agency spokesman, said yesterday. To proceed, the
measure needs to win an FCC vote, and companies can lobby
members on the issues in the interim.  Under Progeny’s proposal, smartphones would calculate their
position using radio signals put out by the company, and would
report that location during emergency calls. In tests, Progeny’s
technology was able to pinpoint within 2 meters (7 feet) the
vertical position of the handset making the call, “potentially
revolutionizing the speed of emergency response in large, multi-story” buildings, the company said in a  filing  with the agency.  Progeny’s technology represents “a clear improvement”
over current techniques, which don’t offer reliable location
information for indoor calls from wireless phones, the
International Association of Chiefs of Police, an Alexandria,
Virginia-based organization, said in an FCC filing.  Progeny “is trying to cure the problem of E911 from
wireless phones,” Gary Parsons, the chief executive officer,
said in an interview. “When you go indoors, they don’t know
where you are.”  Airwave Interference  Progeny, based in McLean,  Virginia , and Sunnyvale,
 California , paid for its airwaves license at an  auction  in 1999.
The system it has designed won’t interfere with other devices
using nearby airwaves, the company  told  the agency last year.  Wireless systems that Progeny’s system may interfere with
include networks used to monitor medical patients, read utility
meters, and operate valves and pumps in water systems, companies
such as Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE and Houston-based
pipeline operator Kinder Morgan Inc. said in a January filing.  Progeny would place at risk the operation of “millions of
unlicensed devices,” the companies said, without supplying a
specific figure.  The agency should reject Progeny’s proposal for “high-power transmitters that may interfere with millions of lower-powered unlicensed devices,” Internet search provider Google
Inc., based in  Mountain View , California, said in a Jan. 29
 filing  with the agency. The affected airwaves should be kept
clear to meet increasing demand from tablet computers and
machine-to-machine wireless networks, the company said.  E-ZPass Concern  Interference from the system could hamper the free flow of
traffic if it disrupts electronic toll gates, the E-ZPass Group
told the agency in a filing. The organization has issued more
than 23 million mobile devices through member agencies in 14
states, including  New York  and  New Jersey .  E-ZPass asked for more testing, as did  Kapsch TrafficCom
AG (KTCG) , which makes E-ZPass gear.  Progeny won’t use airwaves likely to interfere with E-ZPass
operations, Parsons said in a May 9 letter to the organization.  The Progeny CEO is a former head of XM Satellite Radio
Holdings Inc., now part of  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)   Progeny is owned by  NextNav , which lists backers including
Alexandria, Virginia-based technology-investing firm Columbia
Capital LLC, Goldman Sachs Investment Partners, part of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management, and Miami-based Telcom Ventures LLC.  Genachowski, the FCC chairman since 2009, has said he will
leave the agency May 17. His departure will mean the five-member
commission will have two Democrats, one Republican and two
vacancies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 