-- SNB Will Cap Franc as Long as Deflation Risks Persist
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-05-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/snb-will-cap-franc-as-long-as-deflation-risks-persist.html
The  Swiss National Bank  will maintain
its cap on the franc as long as necessary to ward off deflation
and doesn’t consider creating a sovereign wealth fund for its
currency reserves “sensible,” board member Fritz Zurbruegg
told  L’Hebdo .  “The floor rate will remain in force as long as necessary
to carry out our mandate of maintaining  price stability ,”
Zurbruegg said, according to an interview with the French-language newspaper published tomorrow. “The current  exchange
rate  still seems overvalued.”  The Zurich-based SNB set a cap of 1.20 per euro on the
franc in September 2011 to lessen the risk of deflation and a
recession after investors pushed the Swiss currency close to
parity with the euro. Even so, consumer prices dropped for a
19th month in April, extending their longest slump in at least
four decades.  In response to whether the SNB might shift the cap to
another level, as labor unions have urged, Zurbruegg said the
SNB wouldn’t respond to particular economic interests.  “The risk of another significant rise of the Swiss franc
against the euro can’t be ruled out,” he said.  The SNB has amassed 433.6 billion francs ($447 billion) of
foreign currency -- about three quarters of annual output -- due
to its efforts to defend the ceiling. That’s raised questions of
how it might invest the money.  No Fund  The SNB doesn’t take strategic stakes in companies, and
diversifies investments by replicating indexes for a given
currency, Zurbruegg said, repeating comments made last month.
Because of its strategy to remain a passive investor, the SNB
sees little value in founding a sovereign wealth fund to hold
its reserves, he said.  “Creating such a fund for investing the SNB’s currency
reserves wouldn’t be sensible,” according to Zurbruegg. SNB
President Thomas Jordan made a similar remark last year.  In adopting loose monetary policy, central banks around the
world were trying to foster economic growth and weren’t engaging
in a currency “dumping,” Zurbruegg said.  Switzerland ’s real-estate market is experiencing its
biggest rise in two decades, thanks to the SNB’s easy monetary
policy, with the regions of Zurich and Geneva having seen a
particularly strong increase in apartment prices.  “What we currently see is due to the persistence of low
 interest rate  that, according to our predictions, will probably
stay there,” Zurbruegg said.  Capital Buffer  The SNB has repeatedly urged banks to be cautious when
allotting mortgages. The government has also ordered lenders to
hold an extra 1 percent of risk-weighted assets linked to
domestic residential mortgages. They have until the end of
September to comply.  The upward trend in  house prices  remains a concern, though
that doesn’t necessarily mean the new requirement won’t prove
effective, Zurbruegg said.  “It’s still to early to judge the impact of this measure”
he said. “We’ll continue to monitor developments on the
mortgage and real-estate markets closely and periodically
evaluate whether to adjust or disable the countercyclical
capital buffer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  