-- SocGen’s Rosbank CEO Detained in $1.5 Million Bribery Sting
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-05-15T17:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/socgen-s-rosbank-chief-caught-in-1-5-million-moscow-bribe-sting.html
The head of  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s
Russian unit was detained in a sting operation with cash on his
desk after demanding $1.5 million from a company seeking to
modify loan terms, Russian police said.  Vladimir Golubkov, chief executive officer of the French
lender’s  OAO Rosbank (ROSB)  unit, was caught counting cash in his
Moscow office today, Andrey Pilipchuk, an  Interior Ministry 
spokesman in Moscow, said by phone. The CEO had 5 million rubles
($159,000) out of the amount he’d asked for prolonging the loan
and reducing the  interest rate , Pilipchuk said.  Golubkov had a senior vice president collect the bribe from
a company official who tipped off police, Pilipchuk said. The
vice president was detained when she accepted the money. After
agreeing to cooperate with police, she passed the cash to her
boss, he said.  The arrest of a banker at such a senior level “hasn’t
happened before in Russia, in my memory,” Pilipchuk said.  Rosbank named First Deputy CEO Igor Antonov as interim
chief and is cooperating with the authorities, Dmitry Grachev, a
spokesman for the lender, said in an e-mailed statement that
didn’t identify the executives who were detained.  Societe
Generale ,  France ’s second-largest lender, declined to comment.  Rosbank  shares  fell 2.5 percent to 83 rubles on the Micex,
the lowest level since April 29, cutting its market value to
$4.1 billion. Societe Generale rose 2 percent to 30.60 euros in
Paris.  Paris Trip  Golubkov had already received $1.2 million earlier this
year from the same company official, according to Pilipchuk. The
CEO was seeking the remaining amount by May 1 before traveling
to Paris and may have been trying to make up for a cut in his
compensation, Pilipchuk said.  The borrower is in the automobile industry, and the loan
was for about $80 million, he said.  Golubkov joined Rosbank in 1999 from United Card Services
and became CEO in September of 2008, after Societe Generale
gained control of the lender, according to the bank’s  website .
Born in 1966, he graduated from Moscow State Technical
University in 1990, the website says.  A  video  sent by e-mail from the Interior Ministry shows
police officers with machine guns entering Golubkov’s office as
he stands by his desk, which is covered in stacks of ruble
notes.  “We don’t have any questions, this will all be reviewed
during the initial investigation,” a police representative
tells Golubkov in the video.  Societe Generale raised its stake in the Russian lender to
about 82 percent after agreeing in 2010 with billionaire
 Vladimir Potanin ’s Interros Holding to merge its local
operations into Rosbank. Potanin remains a shareholder.  As CEO, Golubkov helped Rosbank weather the collapse of
global financial markets and Russia’s recession in 2009,
restoring profitability as the lender reduced costs and cut
jobs. Societe Generale’s Russian operations, including Rosbank,
contributed 39 million euros ($50 million) of net income in the
first quarter, up from 3 million euros a year earlier, the
French lender said May 7. Russian revenue rose 12 percent while
costs dropped 4.4 percent from a year earlier.  Societe Generale has a 141-year-long history in Russia and
had extensive bank operations in the country before the 1917
revolution. In 1993, the French lender was the first foreign
bank to acquire a general license from the Russian central bank,
according to Rosbank’s website. Rosbank serves 3 million
customers in 340 cities and towns in  Russia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  