-- Soldier Who Led Sex-Abuse Prevention Under Investigation
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-05-15T18:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/soldier-who-led-sex-abuse-prevention-under-investigation.html
A U.S. Army sergeant who served as a
sexual-assault prevention coordinator at Fort Hood, Texas, is
under investigation on allegations including “abusive sexual
contact” and “pandering,” according to the Pentagon.  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel responded to the Fort Hood
case by ordering the military services to retrain all sexual-assault prevention personnel and military recruiters, Pentagon
spokesman  George Little  said in an e-mailed statement.  “I cannot convey strongly enough his frustration, anger,
and disappointment over these troubling allegations and the
breakdown in discipline and standards they imply,” Little said
of Hagel’s reaction.  The disclosure marked the second time in two weeks that a
military official assigned to combat the problem of sexual
assault in the ranks has been accused of sexual misconduct. Last
week, the Pentagon released the results of a survey of active-duty troops that estimated 26,000 cases of unwanted sexual
contact last year, a 35 percent increase from two years earlier.  The revelation stirred fresh outrage in Congress and
intensified a debate over how to curb the sexual abuse and
harassment that have plagued the military for decades.  “I will not be satisfied with any response to this crime
that fails to hold both the perpetrator and the chain of command
responsible,” Representative Howard “Buck” McKeon of
 California , the Republican chairman of the House Armed Services
Committee, said in a statement.  ‘Abusive’ Conduct  The Army sergeant, who wasn’t identified, is being
investigated by special agents from the U.S. Army Criminal
Investigation Command for “pandering, abusive sexual contact,
assault and maltreatment of subordinates,” the Pentagon said in
a statement.  Under the U.S.’s Uniform Code of Military Justice,
pandering refers to compelling, inducing, enticing or procuring
acts of prostitution.  The sergeant, who had been assigned as a prevention
coordinator for a battalion of the Army’s III Corps, was
suspended from all duties when the allegations surfaced,
according to the Pentagon.  “These latest allegations of criminal behavior by yet
another sexual assault prevention and response coordinator are
appalling and show the need for fundamental reforms,” said
Nancy Parrish, president of Protect Our Defenders, a victims’
support group, in a statement. “The Pentagon is responsible for
failing to effectively govern its personnel.”  Air Force  The Army investigation emerged less than two weeks after
the head of the  Air Force ’s Sexual Assault Prevention and
Response branch was arrested in Arlington,  Virginia , on a sexual
assault charge.  Lieutenant Colonel Jeffrey Krusinski “approached a female
victim in a parking lot and grabbed her breasts and buttocks”
on May 5, according to an Arlington County police report.
Krusinski, 41, didn’t enter a plea at his May 9 arraignment,
when his trial was set for July 18.  The Pentagon’s anonymous survey of active-duty troops
produced an estimate that 26,000 reported experiencing unwanted
sexual conduct last year, amounting to an average of 71
incidents per day. A survey two years earlier estimated 19,300
such incidents. In 2006, the only other time the survey was
conducted, there were an estimated 34,200 incidents.  About 6.1 percent of active-duty women and 1.2 percent of
active-duty men surveyed said they had experienced unwanted
sexual contact within the previous 12 months.  ‘Work to Do’  Those estimates dwarf the number of cases reported each
year. Victims have said they’re afraid of coming forward, partly
because they feared risking their careers. There were 3,374
reported cases of assault in 2012, a 5.7 percent increase from
the previous year, the Defense Department said.  “This report tells us we’ve got more work to do,” said
Major General Gary Patton, director of the Pentagon’s Sexual
Assault Prevention and Response Office.  Asked today whether the reported increase in sexual-assault
cases in the military reflects American society at large,
Little, the Pentagon spokesman, told reporters, “It really
doesn’t matter if our rates are similar to the rest of society.
We must hold ourselves to a higher standard, and that’s what the
American people demand.”  Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who heads the
Armed Services Committee, said his panel will act next month on
a number of measures to address sexual assault in the military.  “Tragically, the depth of the sexual-assault problem in
our military was already overwhelmingly clear before this latest
highly disturbing report,” Levin said in a statement last night
after the Army investigation was disclosed.  Reviewing Assignments  Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat, said the
latest allegation raised questions about the personnel assigned
by the Pentagon to address the issue of sexual assault.  “If these allegations are proven, then now is the time for
our military leaders to reevaluate who is being put into these
positions,” McCaskill said in an e-mailed statement.  Little said today he couldn’t immediately say how many
sexual assault-prevention and response personnel and military
recruiters will be affected by Hagel’s order that all of them be
retrained.  The Pentagon has worked with a “well-respected” outside
group to certify about 3,000 sexual-assault prevention and
response personnel since October 2012, Little said.  Chain of Command  The training and certification program for sexual-assault
prevention personnel, mandated by Congress in the 2012 defense
authorization act, is managed by the National Organization for
Victim Assistance, according to the Pentagon’s  website .  President  Barack Obama  pledged at a news conference last
week to “exponentially step up our game” to combat sexual
assaults in the military. Some lawmakers have questioned whether
the administration and the military are ready to go far enough.  Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a  New York  Democrat who serves
on the Armed Services Committee, said she will push to prosecute
sexual assault cases outside the military’s chain of command so
that victims will be more comfortable in coming forward.  “They don’t feel that there is an atmosphere by which they
can report safely,” Gillibrand told Air Force leaders at a
hearing last week.  In the House, a bill sponsored by Representative Jackie Speier, a California Democrat, would create an independent
office within the Defense Department to handle assault cases.  Military leaders have rejected proposals in the past to
take sexual-assault cases outside the chain of command. Hagel
resisted the idea last week, even as he announced steps that he
said would help curb assaults.  ‘Ultimate Authority’  “The ultimate authority has to remain within the command
structure,” Hagel said at a Pentagon news conference held to
announce the annual report on sexual assaults.  Today, Little said going outside the command structure is
among options that Hagel is weighing. The defense secretary
wants to “work closely with Congress” as well as with the
independent panel he has created to see “what ideas they have”
before making a decision, Little said.  The Air Force is still reeling from a scandal in which at
least five military instructors were convicted of sexual
assaults or unprofessional relationships with trainees or
students at Lackland Air Force Base in  San Antonio ,  Texas .  An investigation of the Lackland case identified 23 alleged
offenders and 48 alleged victims.  Overturning Convictions  Hagel last month proposed barring military commanders from
overturning court-martial convictions of sexual assault and
other major crimes.  No charges have been filed in the case of the unnamed Army
sergeant while the investigation proceeds, according to the Army
statement. No additional information about the case is being
released “to protect the integrity of the investigative process
and the rights of all persons involved,” it said.  Army Secretary John McHugh voiced his concerns regarding
sexual assaults in the military last week at a House
Appropriations defense subcommittee hearing.  “This is so contrary to everything upon which the Army was
built,” McHugh said, according to an Army statement. “To see
this kind of activity happening in our ranks is really heart-wrenching and sickening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  