-- Staying Fit Cuts Cancer Death Risk in Middle Age in Study
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-05-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/staying-fit-cuts-cancer-death-risk-in-middle-age-in-study.html
Middle-aged men who stayed fit were
less likely to die from three common cancers after being
diagnosed than those who were out of shape, research found.  In a study of 17,049 men, those with good respiratory and
cardiovascular fitness were more likely to survive prostate,
lung or colorectal cancer, and avoid developing lung or
colorectal cancers. The results were released yesterday by the
 American Society of Clinical Oncology  in advance of the group’s
meeting set to begin May 31 in  Chicago .  The research is among the first to show the benefit of
fitness in cancer prevention and survival, adding to well-known
advantages against heart disease, breathing ailments and
metabolic conditions such as diabetes, said Susan Lakoski, the
study’s lead author and the director of Cardiovascular
Prevention for Cancer Patients at the Vermont Cancer Center.
Lakoski said the study controlled for well-known factors like
 smoking and obesity .  “It’s important to be fit in mid-life to avoid the adverse
consequences of cancer and dying from cancer,” Lakoski said.
“It’s a very strong relationship.”  Lung cancer is the most lethal cancer in the U.S., causing
158,081 deaths in 2009, according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  Colorectal cancer  is the
second-biggest killer, with 136,717 people diagnosed and 51,848
deaths. Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy in men,
though less deadly. In 2009, 206,640 men in the U.S. were
diagnosed and 28,088 died, according to the CDC.  Fitness Comparisons  Just a slight increase in fitness correlated with a 14
percent reduction in dying from the cancers, the study found.
The fittest one-fourth of men in the study were also 68 percent
less likely to develop lung cancer and 38 percent less likely to
get colorectal cancer than the least fit.  “I don’t want people to feel like ‘I have to be high
fitness to have protection.’ I want people to avoid being low-fit,” Lakoski said in a telephone interview. Just going a few
minutes longer on a treadmill, for example, is an easy goal for
patients to understand and work toward, and enough to show a
benefit.  “It’s very specific, very goal oriented, it’s highly
predictive of mortality,” Lakoski said.  The research was part of the  Cooper Center  longitudinal
study, a four-decade-long examination of men’s fitness and
health, and how it affects disease over their lifetimes.  The researchers next plan to include women in the study, as
well as a wider age range of patients.  “It really does lead to telling patients that they can do
something to control their outcome,” Sandra Swain, president of
the  American Society of Clinical Oncology , said in an interview
in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  