-- Subbarao to ‘Take Note’ of 41-Month Low Indian Inflation
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-05-15T07:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/subbarao-to-take-note-of-41-month-low-indian-inflation-1-.html
Reserve Bank  of  India  Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said the slowest inflation since 2009 will be
factored into monetary policy decisions next month. Benchmark
bond yields dropped to a three-year low and stocks surged.  “We certainly will take note of the softening of inflation
and the external payments situation in the next mid-quarter
policy statement on June 17,” Subbarao said at an event in
 Frankfurt  yesterday. He was “happy to see” official data that
showed Indian inflation at a 41-month low in April, he said.  The yield on the 8.15 percent note maturing in June 2022
slid 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.42 percent
as of 12:05 p.m. in Mumbai. That is its lowest level since May
2010. The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index climbed as much as 2.1
percent, the biggest intraday gain in a month.  Subbarao is battling a record current-account deficit and
the threat of a resurgence in price pressures even as he seeks
to revive the $1.8 trillion  economy  expanding at the slowest
pace in a decade. Any room to cut  interest rates  further is
“practically non-existent,” he signaled this month, after
reducing borrowing costs three times this year.  ‘Still High’  The commerce ministry reported yesterday that the
 wholesale-price index  rose 4.89 percent in April, the least
since November 2009. Data this week also showed consumer prices
rose 9.39 percent from a year earlier in the same month, which
Subbarao said is “still high.” The RBI imposed curbs on some
gold imports by banks on May 13 after data showed inbound
shipments of the yellow metal widened the trade deficit to a
three-month high in April.  India’s central bank this month lowered the repurchase rate
to 7.25 percent from 7.5 percent, a third straight quarter-point
cut. The current-account shortfall is “by far the biggest risk
to the economy,” it said, after the  gap  swelled to $32.6
billion in the quarter ended Dec. 31, a record 6.7 percent of
gross domestic product.  GDP rose 5 percent in the year ended March, the smallest
gain since 2003, according to an initial estimate from the
government.  “Easing price pressures and weak growth will allow the RBI
to continue with its calibrated easing,” said Tirthankar
Patnaik, a Mumbai-based strategist at Religare Capital Markets
Ltd. The central bank may cut its  repo rate  by another 75 basis
points by March 31, he said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s minority government has
changed policies since September last year to spur  growth  and
avert a credit-rating downgrade. The steps included trimming the
 budget deficit , opening the retail and aviation industries to
more investment from abroad and reducing a levy on foreign
investors in local bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  