-- Susan Rice Isn’t at Fault in Benghazi Attacks
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-05-15T13:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/susan-rice-isn-t-at-fault-in-benghazi-attacks.html
So it turns out that  Susan Rice , the
U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations  and, before a group of
leading Senate Republicans decided that she was evil incarnate,
a top contender to replace  Hillary Clinton  as secretary of
state, had nothing to do with formulating the White House’s
response to the fatal attacks last year at the American
diplomatic mission in Benghazi,  Libya .  You could be forgiven for believing otherwise. In fact, you
could be forgiven for believing that Rice had been personally
assigned by President  Barack Obama  to pull a guard-duty shift at
the mission that night but slept through her assignment, given
the level of hatred subsequently directed her way.  Republican Senators Lindsey Graham and  John McCain , among
others, argued for weeks that Rice was a crucial cog in a huge
conspiracy to hide the facts of Benghazi from the American
people. The truth, as they saw it, was that the administration
was desperate to blame the tragedy on rioters angered about an
anti-Muslim video, rather than a terrorist attack by extremists
with links to al-Qaeda, because the president saw his anti-terrorism accomplishments as an important advantage in his re-election bid.  The senators focused their wrath on Rice because she was
the designated spokeswoman for the administration on the Sunday
morning news shows soon after the attacks. (How she drew that
short straw should be the subject of another inquiry.)  ‘Essential Player’  Here’s what Graham  said about Rice  at a news conference in
November: “Somebody has got to start paying a price around this
place. I don’t think she deserves to be promoted. There are a
lot of qualified people in this country the president could
pick” for secretary of state, “but I am dead-set on making sure
we don’t promote anybody that was an essential player in the
Benghazi debacle.”  Essential player, huh? Rice actually had nothing to do with
the writing and editing of the talking points she delivered that
Sunday. They were a product of the intelligence community; they
originated in a request by members of Congress to David Petraeus, then the director of the Central Intelligence Agency,
for an unclassified version of the summary of events he had
presented to them on Sept. 14. The talking points were edited
and re-edited, then sent to the State Department, whose
spokeswoman,  Victoria Nuland , read them. In his  New York  Times
 column ,  David Brooks  noted that the talking points -- each
iteration of them, in fact -- stated that the attacks were
inspired by protests in Cairo, and that al-Qaeda-linked radicals
had participated in the attacks. Brooks said Nuland “was just
kicking the process up to the policy-maker level.”  The day before Rice’s fateful talk-show appearances, there
was more haggling over what the talking points should say, and
they were watered down further.  And this is where Rice, the “essential player,” enters the
picture. She was presented with the talking points at about 8
p.m. Saturday, and summarized them on air hours later. She got
ahead of the talking points by explicitly linking the attacks to
protests over the anti-Muslim video, but  that’s about it : Her
crime was simply to lean on a document that was produced in a
chaotic atmosphere by bureaucrats working with imperfect
information and perhaps some turf to protect. I’ve seen zero
evidence to suggest that Rice had any hand in the formulation of
these talking points. If I see such evidence, I’ll certainly let
you know.  I don’t expect that Graham will apologize to Rice for
accusing her of engaging in an enormous conspiracy, when all she
seems to have done is take the consensus of several government
agencies and present it publicly. But you would hope Graham
would think twice before threatening again to stop her
advancement in government.  One larger point: It’s interesting to watch the Washington
scandal machine destroy people for making mistakes (Victoria
Nuland has become the new Susan Rice), but it would be actually
useful if, instead of trying to turn Benghazi into Watergate --
which it isn’t -- Republicans in Congress would spend a bit more
energy thinking about ways to protect American diplomats and
spies in dangerous places, and on making those places less
dangerous.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 