-- Sweden Needs to Alleviate Pressure From Krona, Premier Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-05-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/sweden-needs-to-alleviate-pressure-from-krona-premier-says.html
Sweden  needs policies that will keep
 interest rates  low and curtail the damage the surging krona is
causing for exporters in the largest Nordic economy, its premier
said.  “We have to make sure that our public finances are in
order because that’s also the foundation for making sure that
interest rate levels are low,” Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt 
said yesterday in Stockholm. “That’s exactly what we’ll see if
we can do this autumn. Do we have any room, can we do something
to strengthen Swedish competitiveness, increase incentives to
work.”  The krona has surged 27 percent versus the euro since the
end of 2008, sparking calls from exporters to stem its gains.
While policy makers, including Reinfeldt, earlier this year
signaled little concern, they are now stepping up rhetoric to
cool the krona as government from Zurich to New Zealand act to
stem currency appreciation.  The krona’s 8.5 percent rise over the past 12 months is the
best performance in a correlation-weighted basket of 10
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg in the period,
after the  New Zealand dollar . The Norwegian krone, which has
also benefitted from haven appeal, is up 3.5 percent.  Currency strength is triggering a shift in strategy from
the region’s central banks and could also endanger the export-based Nordic model of growth. Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  last week said that country would need to act should
additional krona strength add to pain for exporters.  Export Reliance  Reinfeldt said yesterday that the country, home to
multinationals such as Ericsson AB and  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , will
keep its focus on what has built Sweden.  “It has served us very well, our export-reliance, and it
has built our riches and financed our welfare,” he said.  Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves acknowledged last month the
strong krona had undermined the efforts to achieve its inflation
target as the bank delayed rate increases.  Norway ’s central
bank, which kept rates unchanged this month, has eased twice in
2010 and 2011 to cool the krone, even as they risked fanning a
debt bubble in  Europe ’s second-wealthiest country.  Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg yesterday
declined to comment on the krone, while also reiterating that
the country is doing better than the rest of Europe because it
has “managed the oil revenue in in a responsible way.” Norway,
western Europe’s largest oil exporter, will act as a beacon for
the unemployed across Europe and the Nordic region, he said.  Importing Labor  “We will continue to import labor from the rest of Europe
-- people from Sweden,  Denmark  and elsewhere will continue to
come to Norway to work,” he said. Norway’s unemployment rate
was 2.6 percent in April.  Sweden this year cut its economic forecasts for 2014,
citing the krona’s impact on exports and the labor market. The
Riksbank on April 17 said it needs to delay monetary tightening
plans until the second half of 2014 as it forecast price growth
won’t reach its 2 percent target until 2015.  The economy will expand 2.2 percent next year, compared
with a December estimate of 3 percent, the  Finance Ministry 
estimated in April. Gross domestic product will grow 1.2 percent
this year, he said. The economy grew 0.8 percent in 2012,
according to the latest official figures.  Sweden generates half its economic output from exports, of
which 70 percent are destined for Europe. The AAA rated nation
emerged as a haven from Europe’s debt crisis last year, only to
watch its currency appreciate more than most of its developed-world peers.  “We have a Swedish krona that’s priced by the market and
weighs on big parts of our export industry, not the least all
that’s related to paper pulp and forest,” he said. “We have
tried to govern in a way that compensates for that by among
other things improving the business climate given that the krona
has become very strong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net 
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net 
NI NIGERIA
NI SWEDE
NI POL
NI GOV
NI ECO
NI BUD
NI INF
NI LABOR
NI SWECO
NI FX
NI BON
NI FRX 