-- U.S. Must Fight Harder Against TB
-- B y   C e l i n e   G o u n d e r
-- 2013-05-15T22:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/u-s-must-fight-harder-against-tb.html
In 2011, tuberculosis killed 1.4
million people worldwide, almost as many as died from HIV/AIDS.
And death isn’t the only damage TB does.  In many countries, women with the disease are stigmatized
and abandoned. Families of poor victims find themselves thrust
further into poverty. And infants and children who get TB --
often from their parents -- go undiagnosed. TB remains the most
common cause of death among people with HIV, and in developing
countries skyrocketing rates of smoking and diabetes -- also
risk factors for TB -- are driving the epidemic.  Because about a third of all sufferers worldwide lack
access to high-quality treatment, the disease easily spreads and
becomes drug-resistant.  This is a problem for developed countries, too. In March, a
Nepalese man with extensively drug-resistant TB flew to  Brazil 
and then traveled by plane, car, boat and on foot before
crossing  Mexico  into  Texas . More than 60 percent of TB cases in
the U.S. occur among the foreign-born, which means that to
control TB within its borders, the U.S. must help control it
overseas.  And yet the  U.S. Agency for International Development  has
proposed to cut $45 million from TB spending for 2014 -- 20
percent of that program’s budget.  Budget Cuts  During a congressional hearing last month, Rajiv Shah, the
head of USAID, responded to concerns about the proposed TB
budget cuts by saying, “We are expanding our efforts in HIV-related TB.” In fact, there are no plans to extend funding for
HIV-related TB in 2014.  Furthermore, a $223 million cut has been proposed for
 Pepfar  (the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief), which
supports HIV-related TB programs. Although this reduction is
counterbalanced by a $350 million increase in U.S. spending on
the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, only 17
percent of that agency’s budget has been used against TB.  USAID’s proposed budget cut will severely hamper the
agency’s efforts to contain the global spread of drug-resistant
TB, and to expand access to better drugs. In some parts of the
world, more than a third of TB cases are multidrug-resistant. In
 India  and South Africa, doctors are seeing strains that don’t
respond to any known medicines. In the absence of technical
assistance from USAID, well-intentioned efforts to treat such
strains may simply lead to greater drug-resistance.  While USAID’s TB budget is being slashed, public-health
spending on tuberculosis in the U.S. is also being cut. On top
of belt tightening from sequestration, the administration of
 Barack Obama  has been pillaging money from the U.S. Department
of Health and Human Services’  Prevention and Public Health Fund ,
which goes to efforts such as immunizations, health screenings
and smoking prevention. Last year, some of this money was used
to prevent a scheduled cut in Medicare payments to doctors. This
year, some will go toward educating and helping to enroll people
in new health-insurance plans available under the Affordable
Care Act.  Almost all TB specialists in the U.S. work in public
clinics and hospitals. Many patients, being either uninsured or
underinsured, have nowhere else to go for their treatment. Even
after the Affordable Care Act is fully in place, public TB
clinics will remain important safety nets for undocumented
immigrants and legal immigrants who don’t yet qualify for public
services. It’s safe to assume that cuts in public health funding
will have the same effect we saw in the early 1990s after
earlier reductions: Many patients will be inadequately treated,
allowing greater transmission of TB and the emergence of
multidrug-resistant strains.  CDC Spending  What’s more, the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
-- led by Tom Frieden, who once was New York’s TB czar -- is
planning to cut funding for its  Tuberculosis Trials Consortium 
by 30 percent. The consortium has been looking for shorter,
less-toxic drug combinations to treat tuberculosis and for
better regimens against multidrug-resistant TB -- an effort that
has begun to pay off. Last year, the  Food and Drug
Administration  approved bedaquiline, the first new TB drug in 40
years, which may reduce the duration of TB treatment (currently
six months to two years, depending on drug resistance).
Additional drugs in the consortium’s pipeline now may not make
it to the end.  Access to old medicines and diagnostic tools is in
jeopardy, too. The U.S. faces shortages of isoniazid and
rifampin, two first-line TB drugs, as well as the second-line
drugs streptomycin, cycloserine, ethionamide, rifabutin,
amikacin, capreomycin and kanamycin. And there is a nationwide
shortage of tuberculin, which has been used since the 1930s in a
skin test to see if someone has been infected.  TB control is no easier today than it was 20 years ago. Our
world is more interconnected, and multidrug-resistant TB is more
common. Instead of cutting funding for national and
international programs -- almost certainly leading to
unnecessary deaths -- the Obama administration should be moving
in the opposite direction. By strengthening the public health
system to deliver essential TB services in the U.S. and abroad
and expanding the number of TB drugs, we should be working to
prevent all deaths from tuberculosis.  (Celine Gounder is a primary care doctor and a specialist
in infectious diseases and public health. She previously served
as assistant commissioner for New York City’s Bureau of
Tuberculosis Control. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Celine Gounder at  me@celinegounder.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  