-- U.S. Action in Syria Could Sway Iran on Nukes
-- B y   M e g h a n   L .   O ’ S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-05-15T21:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/u-s-action-in-syria-could-sway-iran-on-nukes.html
Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad must
be pleased at how, within a week, the conversation has shifted
from his regime’s alleged use of chemical weapons to an
 international peace conference  on  Syria ’s civil war.  The idea of ending the bloodshed -- and presumably
addressing Syria’s chemical weapons as well -- through an accord
similar to that of post-Arab Spring Yemen is certainly worth
exploring. Let’s hope Assad’s foreign patron,  Russia , has
altered its stance enough to make some sort of deal feasible.  The conference, however, cannot become an excuse to sweep
the chemical weapons issue under the rug, not to mention the
deaths of more than 80,000 in the civil war. If negotiations
don’t bear fruit, and we get conclusive proof that the regime
has used chemical arms, the U.S. will need to take stronger
action.  Critics, naturally, will warn that increased U.S. pressure
against Assad may have terrible repercussions. They will point
to the Syrian reaction to recent Israeli air strikes near
Damascus as “an act of war,” and to Hezbollah’s  declaration 
that Syria will give it “game-changing weapons,” and argue
that more U.S. action will foment even greater instability
across the Middle East.  So here’s a suggestion that may sound counterintuitive: A
more aggressive U.S. response to proof of Assad’s chemical-weapons use may be more likely to defuse the prospects of a
regional conflict, in part by swaying Iran to rethink its
nuclear ambitions.  Targeted Strikes  Consider the scenarios. If President  Barack Obama  decides
to act, the likely step would be to directly arm the Syrian
opposition. Many of the fears that initially kept the White
House from doing so -- the radicalization of the rebels, rising
sectarianism, the empowerment of al-Qaeda-affiliated groups --
have already come to pass, without any of the benefits or U.S.
influence that would have resulted from aiding those who oppose
Assad.  Yet, at the same time, there may be an even stronger
argument for the U.S. to respond with limited military force of
its own. If the facts conclusively point to chemical-weapons use
by the regime, Obama should opt for targeted air strikes on
Syria’s planes, air bases and missile-defense systems. Although
a narrowly focused air campaign wouldn’t tip the balance of war
in favor of the rebels, it would help make the conflict more
even, given the air superiority of the regime. It would force
Assad to think twice about any further use of chemical weapons,
and impair his ability to do so.  Contrary to the claims of those urging restraint, such
strikes wouldn’t signal the start of a sustained war effort.
Operation Desert Fox, launched in December 1998 on President
 Bill Clinton ’s watch, was a four-day bombing campaign to degrade
 Iraq ’s ability to produce, store and deliver weapons of mass
destruction. It didn’t mark a restart of the first  Gulf War  or
even lead to broader hostilities. And, unlike Desert Fox --which
France, Russia and  China  all protested -- a campaign against a
Syrian government proven to have used chemical weapons would
probably gain broader international support. (Before such
action, the U.S. would call, in conjunction with its allies, for
Syria’s disarmament, which Assad would, almost certainly,
rebuff.)  There will be those who will warn that direct U.S. action
risks widening the war and costing hundreds of thousands of
lives. If this were simply about Syria’s civil war, they might
be right. But any decisions should be made in the context of the
entire region.  ’Breakout Ability’  Syria’s war has already sparked violence outside its
borders, in Lebanon and  Turkey . More than 500,000 Syrian
refugees have flooded into Jordan, a country of 6 million. Iraqi
politics, partly because of the instability next door, have
deteriorated to the point where sectarian violence is rising and
the fragmentation of the country is conceivable.  Then there is the real panic-inducing scenario for the
region: the use of military force against Iranian nuclear sites
by the U.S.,  Israel  or both. This is not inconceivable.
Negotiations between Iran and the five permanent members of the
 United Nations Security Council , as well as  Germany , have ground
almost to a standstill, largely due to Iranian intransigence.
Iran continues to enrich uranium in a steady march toward the
point at which observers, notably Israel, will conclude it has
“breakout ability” to rush to a bomb.  Despite the preference of the Obama administration to deal
with every crisis in the Middle East independently, policy
makers should look at responding to Syria’s alleged chemical-weapons use in a way that positively affects the entire region.
If they did, they might conclude that limited, targeted air
strikes against Syria could contribute to a breakthrough on the
Iranian nuclear front.  I don’t make this claim on the familiar grounds that a
failure by the U.S. to act after the president’s “red line” in
Syria had been crossed would embolden  Iran  to speed ahead on its
nuclear program. That argument is overstated for two reasons.
First, Iran has watched American foreign policy long enough to
know that there is little consistency from theater to theater;
the “responsibility to protect” doctrine was touted as
motivating the Libyan intervention in 2011, yet it clearly has
carried little weight in the context of Syria. Second, Iran has
already violated numerous red lines set out by the international
community, with little or no consequence. Iran’s leaders likely
suspect the phrase has little meaning.  A more compelling argument is that the use of military
force -- even of limited scope -- would cause Iran to rethink
one of its fundamental assumptions: That the U.S., chastened by
its Iraq intervention, won’t use military force in the  Middle
East  for any reason.  Iranian Perspective  From the Iranian perspective, this isn’t a crazy conclusion
to have drawn. Obama has repeatedly spoken of how the time of
war has ended, of the need to nation-build at home, of how the
withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq was one of his legacy
achievements, and of the imperative to rebalance American
attention and resources toward  Asia . The budget sequestration, a
slow-growing economy, and fatigue of the American people after a
decade of wars reinforce this conclusion, while the heavy
reliance on the use of drones underscores U.S. reluctance to
risk American lives overseas.  Air strikes against Syrian targets, in challenging this
Iranian assumption, could help address the fundamental flaw in
the current effort to curb Iran’s nuclear ambitions through
diplomacy. In the current context, the threat of U.S. military
force isn’t credible, no matter how many times Obama declares
that Iran won’t be permitted to acquire a nuclear weapon. An
Iran unconcerned about U.S. military action has little incentive
to come to a diplomatic compromise, given its willingness and
ability to withstand the economic pain of sanctions.  In forcing the Iranians to re-evaluate the assumption that
American threats of force are hollow, limited air strikes on
Syria in response to proven chemical weapons use could lead to a
more engaged and compliant Iran at the negotiating table.
Ultimately, the use of a little force in Syria now could save
the U.S. and its allies from having to use force on a much
grander scale in Iran down the road.  (Meghan L. O’Sullivan, a professor at Harvard University’s
Kennedy School of Government and former deputy national security
adviser in the George W. Bush administration, is a Bloomberg
View contributor. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Meghan L. O’Sullivan at  Meghan_OSullivan@hks.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  