-- Senators Urge Obama to Press Iran by Increased Sanctions
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-05-16T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/u-s-seeks-more-ways-to-isolate-iran-treasury-s-cohen-says-1-.html
Members of Congress from both parties
urged Obama administration officials to impose greater economic
pressure to curtail Iran’s nuclear ambitions and punish its
human-rights violations.  Senator  Robert Menendez , chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee and sponsor of several Iran sanctions laws, cited
estimates that the global oil market has enough supply to let
the U.S. press Iran’s remaining oil buyers to radically curtail
their purchases without causing a surge in gasoline prices.  “Oil markets are now and predicted to be loose for the
coming year” and “it would seem that this is the time to press
our allies to further reduce crude purchase from Iran,”
Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, told a committee hearing
yesterday on preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon.  The  International Energy Agency  said the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries’ spare crude oil production
capacity will increase 25 percent in the next two years as
rising U.S. shale output crimps demand for OPEC’s supplies.  Crude production by non-OPEC countries will increase by
990,000 barrels a day annually to 2013, according to the Paris-based IEA. West Texas Intermediate crude for June delivery
settled at $94.30 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange,
the first advance in five days.  Menendez, who’s drafting legislation to tighten sanctions
on Iran, urged Undersecretary of State Wendy Sherman and
Treasury Undersecretary  David Cohen  to pressure the six
remaining importers of Iranian oil, particularly  China .  Additional Sanctions  Existing sanctions punishing Iran for its suspected nuclear
weapons program include curbs on financial transactions and
crude oil exports, the country’s main source of revenue.  Sherman and Cohen testified that President  Barack Obama ’s
administration is looking at sanctions on additional sectors of
Iran’s economy. The U.S. is focused on Iranian “revenue,
reserves and the rial,” Cohen said, referring to the currency.  Iran’s currency has depreciated by more than 50 percent
over the past 12 months and the official inflation rate is 32
percent, Sherman told the panel. Unofficial estimates put the
actual rate much higher.  The first U.S. law targeting Iranian oil sales, which went
into effect in mid-2012, coupled with a European Union oil
embargo that went into force at the same time, cut  Iran ’s crude
oil and condensate exports by 50 percent to about 1.3 million
barrels a day by early this year, Cohen said. Iran’s
petrochemical exports also have been hit, dropping by at least
7.6 percent in 2012, Cohen said.  Sanctions Bite  Representative Ed Royce, chairman of the House Foreign
Affairs Committee, said at a hearing of his panel that sanctions
must be tougher to make Iran stop development of nuclear
technology.  In the Senate, Menendez expressed concern that Iran may be
using its automotive industry to produce dual-use items for its
nuclear program, and suggested the auto sector might be targeted
for penalties, as well.  Menendez also questioned whether the administration is
doing enough to enforce its own prohibitions on Iran’s gold
trade issued last summer.  He cited estimates in a report by the Foundation for
Defense of Democracies and Roubini Global Economics that Iran
has imported more than $6 billion in gold, mainly from  Turkey 
and the United Arab Emirates, since the administration’s ban on
gold trade with Iran’s government took effect last summer.
That’s equivalent to about 10 percent of Iran’s 2012 oil exports
of $60 billion, Menendez said.  Gold Ban  “We are actively enforcing” the gold ban, Cohen said.
“We have been very clear with countries that are exporting gold
to Iran, principally Turkey and the UAE, on precisely what the
law permits and what it forbids, and we are following the
information very carefully.” Cohen reminded lawmakers that this
July 1, the ban will extend to private sales.  To date, though, the administration hasn’t penalized any
entity in Turkey or the UAE for trading in gold with the Iranian
government.  While Iranian officials say their country’s nuclear program
is for energy and medical research, the U.S., its European
allies and  Israel  say Iran may be trying to develop a nuclear
weapons capability.  “We are about changing the behavior of the regime, not the
regime,” Sherman told the Senate committee, while saying Obama
wouldn’t hesitate to use force if that were the only way to stop
Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon.  The Treasury yesterday identified two companies it said
were linked to Iran’s efforts to evade international sanctions.
Al Hilal Exchange and Al Fida International General Trading,
both based in the  United Arab Emirates , were designated for
providing financial services to Iranian banks, the Treasury said
in a statement in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  