-- Treasury’s Brainard Says Expanding Europe Demand Is Top Priority
-- B y   K e v i n   C o s t e l l o e
-- 2013-05-16T12:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/u-s-s-brainard-says-global-economy-still-sluggish-and-fragile-.html
The U.S. Treasury’s top international
official said that strengthening European demand is “the most
important immediate imperative” for reviving global growth.  Lael Brainard, the Treasury’s undersecretary for
international affairs, also said in the text of a speech today
in New York that  China  needs to increase the flexibility of its
exchange rate system.  The euro-area economy shrank more than economists forecast
in the three months through March, a report said yesterday,
extending its recession to a record sixth quarter and increasing
pressure on the currency bloc’s leaders to spur growth. Gross
domestic product in the 17-nation euro zone fell 0.2 percent
after a 0.6 percent decline in the previous quarter, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said.  “Domestic demand in the euro area is now lower than at the
low point of the global crisis in 2009 in real terms,” Brainard
told the Council on Foreign Relations. “All of the recovery in
European output since that time has come from net exports.  That
is not sustainable for a region that accounts for almost 20
percent of the world economy.”  Tightly controlled exchange rate regimes “put an undue
burden of adjustment on those emerging economies with market
exchange rates,” Brainard said. Such tightly controlled systems
also “contribute to the weakness of demand in the advanced
economies,” she said.  Brainard said it is “imperative that China take additional
measures to increase the flexibility of its exchange rate
regime,” while it is “critical” for  Japan  to expand domestic
demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Costelloe in Washington at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  