-- TUI Targets $1.3 Billion Profit as new CEO Promises Dividend
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-05-15T05:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/tui-targets-1-3-billion-profit-as-new-ceo-promises-dividend.html
TUI AG (TUI1)  said it plans to generate 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) in operating profit by 2015 and
resume its dividend as new Chief Executive Officer Friedrich Joussen overhauls  Europe ’s largest tour operator.  Joussen, who took over from Michael Frenzel in February,
will cut administrative costs and jobs at the corporate
headquarter in Hanover,  Germany , reduce interest costs to about
one third of the current 160 million euros each year, lower the
number of hotel brands and restructure its Hapag Lloyd cruise
business, he said in a statement today.  TUI, which last paid a dividend in 2008, has been
struggling to maintain profitability as consumers increasingly
book flights and hotels on the Internet, and TUI failed to build
up a strong presence in the thriving market for cruises. TUI had
a net loss in three of the past seven fiscal years, and
investors have labeled Frenzel’s reign as two lost decades.  “The current financial year will be a year of transition
on our path towards resuming dividend payments,” Chief
Financial Officer Horst Baier said in the statement.  The company will streamline operations with its largest
unit,  TUI Travel Plc (TT/) , of which it owns 54.5 percent, and
introduce a joint customer relationship management and
synchronize online strategies as well as their brands of tour
operators and hotels. The companies agreed on performance
targets for travel activities in Germany,  Russia  and  France , as
well as its specialist & activity business.  Closer Ties  The closer integration follows a failed combination of the
two companies earlier this year. The value of TUI’s stake in the
U.K. company is equivalent to the German parent’s entire market
capitalization.  Jobs at the company headquarter will be cut to “less than
100,” or about half the current 186, while personnel costs will
also be trimmed at Hapag Lloyd.  TUI today reported a net  loss  of 248.4 million euros for
the quarter ended March 31, as it booked charges to trim the
corporate holding, wrote down the value of a hotel project in
 Italy  and booked provisions for a longer startup phase to
increase its fleet of  cruise ships . The loss compares with a
deficit of 185.2 million euros a year earlier. Sales rose 1.9
percent to 3.34 billion euros.  The company said it lifted its guidance for this year, and
anticipated underlying earnings before interest, tax and
amortization to improve, while reported earnings on that level
will increase “slightly.” TUI said it eventually plans to pay
out about 50 percent of its net  cash flow  in forms of dividends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  