-- Hungary GDP Growth Boost EU Budget Monitoring Exit Chance
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-05-15T14:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/hungary-first-quarter-growth-exceeds-economist-forecasts.html
Hungary ’s  economy  posted quarterly
growth in the first three months of the year for the first time
since 2011, supporting Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s quest to
avoid European Union funding cuts.  Gross domestic product grew a seasonally adjusted 0.7
percent in the first quarter, the statistics office in Budapest
said today. That’s more than the 0.1 percent median estimate of
eight economists in a Bloomberg  survey . The economy shrank 0.9
percent from a year earlier, less than the 1.4 percent
contraction predicted in a separate survey of 19 economists.  Orban, who sacrificed growth in 2012 to keep the budget gap
at less than 3 percent of GDP and avert a cut in EU funding, has
argued that the economy will expand more than the European
Commission forecasts this year, allowing him to keep the
shortfall within the bloc’s limit. The government forecasts
growth of 0.7 percent, compared with the European Commission’s
0.2 percent estimate.  The government target “now also looks more realistic and
we see a better chance of Hungary exiting the EU’s excessive-deficit procedure this year,” Nora Szentivanyi, an economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London, said in an e-mailed note.  Currency Jump  The forint gained 0.8 percent to 291.86 per euro by 4:03
p.m. in Budapest, rising the third-most among emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg behind the Indonesian rupiah and
the Indian rupee.  Hungary’s biggest export market,  Germany , narrowly avoided
recession in the first quarter as its economy grew 0.1 percent
from the last three months of 2012, missing a 0.3 percent
forecast from a Bloomberg survey of economists.  France  fell into
its second recession in a year as output contracted 0.2 percent.  Hungarian GDP may expand 1 percent this year and may
outpace the rest of Europe in 2014, the state-run MTI news
service reported May 7, citing Orban, who faces re-election next
year. Construction, hotels and telecommunication posted above-average output in the first quarter, statistician Pal Pozsonyi
told reporters today.  Eastern Europe’s economic performance was mixed in the
first quarter. Romanian GDP grew 1.1 percent from the previous
three months and 2.1 percent from a year earlier, beating
economists’ predictions.  ‘Extremely Weak’  Still, the Czech Republic’s recession extended to the
longest since records began in 1996 as GDP fell 0.8 percent from
the fourth quarter after a 0.3 percent decline in the October-December period. Poland reported first-quarter growth of 0.4
percent from a year-earlier yesterday, matching the slowest pace
in 11 years.  “Data suggest that the slowdown in the region’s economy
bottomed out at the start of the year,” William Jackson, an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mailed note today. “But growth is still extremely weak, and
performances across the region are uneven.”  Hungary has boosted revenue by levying Europe’s highest
bank tax and imposing extraordinary taxes on energy, retail and
telecommunication industries, damaging lending and investments.
The Cabinet also passed multiple rounds of fiscal cuts last
year, bringing the budget gap to 1.9 percent of GDP.  State Savings  The government said last week that it would freeze 92.9
billion forint ($409 million) of planned spending this year and
next and is ready to save another 80 billion forint in 2014
mostly by delaying payments for projects such as soccer
stadiums. If that’s insufficient to exit EU budget monitoring,
Hungary is also prepared to raise the bank tax and the
financial-transaction levy, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said
last week.  The commission will publish its recommendation on whether
Hungary should be allowed to exit the excessive-deficit
procedure on May 29.  “The government took the necessary steps for fiscal
stability and to stop debt growth, but these have the
inconvenient side effect of not really being growth-friendly,”
Sandor Csanyi, the chairman and chief executive of OTP Bank
Nyrt., the nation’s largest lender, said on Inforadio on May 13.
“Growth has quasi-started, we expect 1 percent growth for this
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  