-- UnitedHealth, Humana May See Surge in Medicare Advantage
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-05-15T19:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/unitedhealth-humana-may-see-surge-in-medicare-advantage.html
Enrollment in the U.S.-funded
Medicare plans run by  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , Humana Inc. and
other insurers may rise 50 percent in the next decade rather
than declining as predicted earlier, U.S. budget analysts said.  Medicare Advantage plans for the elderly and disabled will
swell to 21 million participants by fiscal 2023 from 14 million
this year, the Congressional Budget Office said yesterday in its
 annual review  of the  federal budget . The CBO didn’t explain the
revision from its previous estimate that enrollment would fall
to 11 million and a spokeswoman didn’t respond to an e-mail.  The reversal shows that a recent slowdown in health-care
cost growth may be permanent, said Joseph Antos, a health
economist at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington who
has advised the CBO in the past. Medicare Advantage plans, which
offer added benefits over traditional Medicare such as lower
out-of-pocket spending, may be able to increase those benefits
as costs slow.  “CBO really seems to have accepted hook, line and sinker
that we’ve seen a shift down in that spending curve in
general,” Antos said in a phone interview. Advantage plans will
be better at “managing unnecessary costs out of the system.”  The CBO estimates Medicare will pay Advantage plans $250
billion in 2023 compared with $145 billion projected for this
year.  While Minnetonka, Minnesota-based UnitedHealth is the
largest Medicare Advantage provider by enrollment,  Humana (HUM)  is
among the most dependent on the program. Louisville, Kentucky-based Humana gets 66 percent of its revenue and 58 percent of
profit from Medicare Advantage, according to estimates by Cowen
& Co. analysts.  UnitedHealth and  Health Net Inc. (HNT) , based in Woodland Hills,
 California , each get 25 percent of revenue from Advantage plans.  Attracting Customers  “Membership growth has been an integral draw of the
Medicare Advantage program,” helping insurers even as growth
among private-sector plans has stalled, Jennifer Lynch, a BMO
Capital Markets analyst in New York, said yesterday in a note to
clients.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Managed Care Index has jumped 19
percent this year, edging out gains of the broader S&P 500, as
government policies on Medicare and on implementation of the
2010 health-care system overhaul turn out to be more favorable
to insurers than some investors had anticipated.  UnitedHealth  fell  less than 1 percent today to $61.53 at
3:29 p.m. New York time. Humana fell less than 1 percent to
$79.28. UnitedHealth shares rose 14 percent this year through
yesterday, while Humana gained 16 percent.  Health Costs  U.S. health-care costs grew at an average annual rate of
about 3 percent from 2009 to 2011, measured on a per capita
basis, according to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services. That’s less than half the rate in 2007, and a third of
the rate in 1990. Economists are debating whether the slowdown
in spending is mostly an outgrowth of the recession of 2008-2009
or if more permanent changes, including efficiency and care
improvements at hospitals, have played a large role.  A policy change in April by the Obama administration may
also have influenced the CBO’s projections, Antos said. The
administration backtracked on a proposed 2.2 percent cut in
payments to Advantage plans that was based on an assumed
reduction in doctor compensation. The rate will now rise 3.3
percent next fiscal year.  The Advantage program “has proven too important to
undermine and we expect the Center for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, along with stakeholders, to eventually identify an
appropriate level of funding to support sustainable” membership
growth,’’ Lynch wrote in her note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  