-- Turkish Air Flying Amid Strike Surges to Record: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-05-15T15:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/turkish-air-flying-amid-strike-surges-to-record-istanbul-mover.html
Turk Hava Yollari AO (THYAO) ,  Turkey ’s
flagship carrier, climbed to a record after saying its staff
disregarded a union call to strike.  As of 5:30 p.m. 618 flights had been made, with no delays
or cancellations due to the protest, company spokesman Ali Genc
said in a phone interview. “Operations continued as usual and
passengers were not aggrieved.”  Turkish Airlines, as the company is known, rose 3.2 percent
to close at 8.38 liras in Istanbul, the highest level since the
stock started trading in 1995. About 25.7 million shares changed
hands, or 1.5 times the three-month average daily volume,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Borsa Istanbul
National 100 index advanced 0.9 percent.  “Even if the strike had an effect, it would have only
resulted in small losses in daily operations,” Hasan Bayhan, an
analyst at Global Securities in Istanbul, said in a phone
interview. “Investors believe the union and the management will
come to an agreement in the end.”  The Hava-Is labor union started the strike at 3 a.m.,
demanding the reinstatement of 305 former employees. The
organization also seeks a 12 percent pay increase this year,
against the company’s offer of 3 percent raise in the first half
and another 3 percent in the second, union Chairman Atilla Aycin
said in an April 10 interview.  Strike Action  “We have heard that flight delays and cancellations are
rising,” Gizem Surer, a press spokeswoman at Hava-Is, said in a
phone interview, without giving details. “The strike will
continue until our demands are met.” The union will set up a
strike tent in front of the company’s headquarters in Istanbul
tomorrow, she said.  Turkish Airlines  reported 1.13 billion liras ($620 million)
in 2012 net income on March 15, beating the average estimate of
1.05 billion liras in a Bloomberg survey of 21 analysts. It may
report a loss of 11.3 million liras in the first quarter,
according to the  average  of eight analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Seventeen analysts recommend buying the carrier’s
shares, while eight say hold and one recommends selling,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  