-- Venezuela May Allow Companies to Repatriate Some Dividends
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-05-15T20:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/venezuela-may-allow-companies-to-repatriate-some-dividends.html
Venezuela  may allow foreign companies
operating in the country to repatriate some of their profits in
exchange for increased investment in the Latin American nation,
said Pedro Cortez, head of  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s local unit.  Cortez made the comments to reporters in Caracas today
after a “positive” meeting with Finance Minister Nelson Merentes. Merentes declined to give a timetable for any changes.  “Once we come to an agreement, we’ll draw up a timetable
for payment,” Merentes told a news conference at the central
bank.  The government has tightened currency controls over the
past 10 years as dollars became increasingly scarce in a country
sitting on the world’s largest oil reserves. That has left
companies such as Telefonica holding about $12 billion in
dividends that they can’t repatriate, according to Caracas-based
research firm Ecoanalitica. Those funds lose value with every
devaluation and pick-up in inflation.  Merentes said today that the government has enough dollars
to meet demand, without giving further details.  Telefonica, which expanded in Venezuela with the 2004
takeover of Bellsouth Corp.’s Latin America wireless business,
accumulated dividends valued at 18.8 billion bolivars ($3
billion) over the past seven years, according to a company
presentation seen by  Bloomberg News . The dividends have lost
about $1.4 billion in value, taking into account the February
devaluation of the bolivar to 6.3 per dollar from 4.3.  Mounting Shortages  The government has held meetings with more than 1,500
business owners to address foreign currency short falls that are
stoking inflation and generating shortages of goods on
supermarket shelves, Merentes said.  Telefonica’s Venezuela unit has an eight to 10 month delay
in paying providers because of the shortage of foreign currency,
Cortez said today.  Venezuela introduced a new currency system this year that
auctioned $200 million on March 27. The system, known as Sicad,
has not auctioned any foreign currency since.  Fewer dollars for importers have exacerbated shortages of
staple goods including chicken, corn flour, sugar and toilet
paper. The central bank’s scarcity index, which measures the
amount of goods that are out of stock on the market, rose to
21.3 percent last month, the highest since it started tracking
the measure in April 2009. Food prices, which account for 37
percent of the bank’s inflation index, climbed 6.4 percent in
April from a month earlier.  State oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA is finalizing
terms with  China  for a $4 billion loan to increase production at
the Sinovensa oil field in Venezuela’s Orinoco Belt, Oil
Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 