-- VimpelCom Says Wind Isn’t for Sale in Rebuff for Sawiris
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-05-15T10:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/vimpelcom-says-wind-isn-t-for-sale-in-rebuff-for-sawiris.html
VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  Chief Executive
Officer Jo Lunder said the mobile carrier will stick to its Wind
Telecomunicazioni SpA unit, keeping the Italian asset off limits
to former ownerNaguib Sawiris, the Egyptian billionaire who is
seeking to re-enter the market.  VimpelCom today reported a 4 percent gain in Italian
customers for the past year as first-quarter net income for the
Amsterdam-based carrier with divisions from Russia to  Bangladesh 
rose 28 percent. Lunder said Wind, VimpelCom’s second-biggest
 business , is a keeper because it’s growing faster than rivals.  “We are proud of Wind, which is outperforming competitors
by growth in subscribers and revenue,” Lunder said in a phone
interview. “We don’t plan to sell.”  Sawiris, who sold Wind along with assets in  Algeria ,
Pakistan and Bangladesh to VimpelCom two years ago, told
 Bloomberg News  this month he is seeking to re-enter the Italian
market and may look into assets including Wind. Late last year,
he tried unsuccessfully to buy a stake of at least 2 billion
euros ($2.6 billion) in market leader  Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT) 
Telecom Italia is now studying a combination with H3G, the
Italian unit of  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)   Italy accounts for about 29 percent of VimpelCom’s revenue,
trailing only Russia. VimpelCom said Wind’s fixed-broadband
revenue increased 9 percent in local currency in the first
quarter and mobile Internet revenue added 29 percent as the unit
gained market share. Subscribers rose to 22 million from 21.1
million a year earlier.  Canada, Algeria  American depositary receipts of VimpelCom  rose  0.5 percent
to $11.31 yesterday in New York, valuing the company at $19.9
billion.  For the company as a whole, earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization increased to $2.35 billion
from $2.31 billion a year earlier. Profit was in line with
analyst estimates. The Ebitda margin widened to 42 percent of
sales from 41.1 percent. Net income rose to $408 million from
$318 million a year earlier.  VimpelCom is working to reduce spending and improve
operations to help cut $28.6 billion in debt resulting from the
acquisition of Wind and other assets from Sawiris in 2011.  The company is still reviewing options for its Canadian
business, where it can either expand or sell its assets, Lunder
said today. The company isn’t able to estimate when its long-running discussions with the Algerian government will be
concluded, he said. Algerian government has been in talks with
the company for more than a year about buying a controlling
stake in its local Djezzy carrier.  Orascom Rejection  VimpelCom also controls Cairo-based Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE after buying a majority stake in the mobile carrier in 2011.
That unit  reported  a first-quarter loss of $208.3 million after
a $115.7 million profit a year earlier as revenue slid 5.6
percent, hurt by declines in Algeria’s and Pakistan’s currencies
against the  U.S. dollar .  Orascom Telecom, which operates in the  Middle East ,  Africa ,
and Asia, yesterday told holders to reject a buyout offer from
billionaire  Mikhail Fridman , whose investment firm is the
biggest shareholder in VimpelCom. Orascom shares were valued at
86 cents a share by its adviser, HC Securities & Investments,
compared with Fridman’s offer of 70 cents, Orascom said.  Vimpelcom’s total mobile subscribers rose 4 percent from a
year earlier to 215 million users, boosted in part by a
competitor’s shutdown in Uzbekistan. VimpelCom cut commercial
costs in Russia by shifting to a revenue-sharing model with
distributors and reduced human-resources costs.  Net debt on March 31 widened 4 percent from the end of
December to $22.9 billion, while the ratio of net debt to Ebitda
narrowed to 2.3 from 2.6 in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  