-- Visa, MasterCard Swipe Deal Draws Little Rock Objection
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-05-15T19:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/visa-mastercard-swipe-deal-draws-little-rock-objection.html
Little Rock ,  Arkansas , objected to a
multibillion-dollar settlement of a price-fixing case against
 Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  over the fees charged to merchants
to process credit-card transactions.  The settlement doesn’t address potential future fixing of
the so-called interchange or swipe fees and contains
“unacceptable obligations,” City Manager  Bruce T. Moore  said
in a filing today in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, where
the agreement is under review.  The proposed $7.25 billion settlement, estimated to be the
largest-ever U.S. antitrust accord, has drawn criticism from
trade associations and retailers, which contend that it grants
the card companies too much leeway to raise rates in the future.  Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the
world’s largest retailer, said in a statement in July that it
was “disappointed” in the settlement and would encourage
merchants to reject the deal.  Little Rock, the state capital and home to department-store
chain  Dillard’s Inc. (DDS) , said it was protesting the settlement in
its capacity as a potential member of a class that has accepted
Visa and MasterCard credit-card payments.  Separately, the city of Oakland, California, also filed an
objection to the settlement today. The city, which also accepts
credit-card payments, said the accord “explicitly permits Visa
and MasterCard to continue to fix interchange fees for their
banks,” forcing consumers to pay higher prices.  Higher Prices  “Interchange fees on credit card transactions result in
higher prices for Oakland’s residents, and amount to a hidden
and regressive tax on goods and services,” the city said in its
objection, filed by attorney Jeffrey Shinder, who is also
representing several trade associations that oppose the deal.  Hundreds of objections have been filed since U.S. District
Judge John Gleeson gave a preliminary sign-off to the deal in
November, including many from smaller retailers and merchants.  Large retailers including  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Home Depot Inc. (HD) 
have also spoken out against the accord.  Last month, Gleeson ordered that corrections be made to
websites established by groups opposing the settlement,
including  Merchantsobject.com , which directed business owners to
pages where they could submit objections electronically. The
judge said that the sites were misleading and failed to
prominently display a link to a court-approved website,
 paymentcardsettlement.com .  Consider Remedies  At a follow-up hearing earlier this month, Gleeson said he
would consider remedies for merchants that dropped out of the
settlement, leaving them unable to receive payments for damages,
based on what he described as misleading information on the
sites.  The settlement was unveiled in July after about seven years
of litigation. A hearing on final approval of the deal, which
would cover merchants throughout the U.S., is scheduled for
Sept. 12.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, at
   csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  