-- Wall Street Internships Offer NFL Players Option When Game Ends
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-05-15T04:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/wall-street-internships-offer-nfl-players-option-when-game-ends.html
Thomas Welch knows there’s a better
chance he will be fired than retire. So he spent his vacation
interning at Merrill Lynch  Wealth Management  to prepare for a
second career to sustain him for the next 40 years.  The fourth-year National Football League offensive lineman
and Vanderbilt University economics graduate worked six weeks as
an intern at the unit of  Bank of America Corp.  He is in the
final year of a two-year contract with the  Buffalo Bills  and
says he knows his long-term future won’t be on a football field.  “It was a great experience,” Welch said in a telephone
interview. “I made some contacts, and I got a better
understanding of what they do -- not just about wealth
management, but all aspects of the financial industry.”  Welch , 25, did research and helped advisers develop their
clients’ asset allocations. His final project was to assemble a
hypothetical $1 million portfolio, which he is now tracking to
see how he did. The investments returned 4.98 percent in the
first quarter of 2013 when he was an intern with the company.  The Bills’ 6-foot-6, 300-pound offensive tackle later
attended a National Football League-sponsored four-day boot camp
at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School. The classes
concentrated on real estate and negotiations, and included
breakout sessions on financial planning and studying for the
Graduate Management Admission Test -- required to be admitted
into a Master of Business Administration program.  Internships are just one of the services managed by the
league’s  office of player engagement , run by retired five-time
Pro Bowl cornerback Troy Vincent.  “Football is not a career; it is an experience,” Vincent,
who played from 1992-2006, said in an interview. “The body has
an expiration date. It’s out of your control when you are going
to be released. They need to start planning their next career
right away.”  Career Length  For every player like Vincent, with his 15 seasons of
experience, there are several who aren’t as successful. The
average career lasts about 3 1/2 years, according to the NFL
Players Association.  The league provides assistance with writing resumes, re-enrolling in college, job shadowing and interview skills. It
holds career training camps at schools including  Pennsylvania ,
the  University of Michigan ,  Stanford University  and the
University of  Notre Dame  on subjects such as franchising,
hospitality, the music and film industries, social
entrepreneurship and evaluating business opportunities.  The NFL also has set up hotlines for assistance with child
care, elder care and financial and legal help. Its financial
planning site is peppered with stories titled: “Borrowing from
Retirement as a Last Resort,” “Are You Managing Your Family
Budget Properly?” and online tools such as “tracking your
spending worksheet” and “college savings calculator.”  More Counseling  Vincent  said there was an increase in the use of the
league’s counseling services this year, especially those for
mental  health services , following news coverage of concussions
and other health issues.  In a video on the engagement department’s website, former
Dallas Cowboys receiver Michael Irvin  speaks directly  to players
about depression and how former athletes need to help others not
feel isolated when they stop playing.  David Howard , 25, a Brown University graduate selected by
the  Tennessee Titans  in the seventh round of the 2010 draft,
turned an internship at Merrill Lynch Wealth Management into a
full-time job.  Based in Towson,  Maryland , he works with Merrill Lynch
Managing Director  Kent Pearce  developing financial strategies
and investment portfolios for clients.  Special Skills  Pearce said Howard, who was signed by four teams and never
played in an NFL regular-season game, brought a skill set that’s
impossible to teach.  “Work ethic and discipline,” Pearce said in an interview.
“I attribute a lot of that to a tough Ivy League academic
regimen and from the requirements of pro sports. David is hungry
and has great determination.”  Howard said the NFL offered him assistance with his career
transition, including internship and shadow opportunities before
he chose to put his economics degree to work at Merrill Lynch.
Once football was over, he said, he already knew who to call at
Merrill, how the system works and what they’d be looking for.  “I played at a small school where football wasn’t a big
deal, and so I didn’t have the athlete mentality,” Howard said.
“I’ve always known there would be life after football and
career was more of a priority.”  ‘No Excuse’  Vincent said his office is trying to create more awareness
of its programs and that if players aren’t taking advantage of
the NFL’s internships, career counseling services and other
programs, they have to take responsibility for that.  “The player today has to make a conscious effort not to
engage, because the service and program offerings are robust,”
he said. “There is no excuse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  