-- Warren’s Bank Trials, Visa Probe, Ratings: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-05-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/warren-s-bank-trials-visa-probe-ratings-compliance.html
U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren has
questioned three more federal agencies’ enforcement practices by
asking if they’ve studied the costs of favoring settlements with
big financial firms over taking them to trial.  Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat on the Senate Banking
Committee, had earlier questioned Comptroller of the Currency
Thomas Curry about why his agency doesn’t take wrongdoing
financial firms to trial, such as in the money-laundering case
of London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  She sent a similar query in a
letter yesterday to Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke,
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White and
Attorney General Eric Holder.  “If large financial institutions can break the law and
accumulate millions in profits and, if they get caught, settle
by paying out of those profits, they do not have much incentive
to follow the law,” Warren said in the letter. She argued
regulators have “a lot less leverage” if they show a
continuing unwillingness to go to trial.  Curry said in a response to Warren last week that the OCC
hasn’t conducted research on the benefits of settling without
forcing admissions of guilt, according to the letter. Warren is
putting the same question to Bernanke, White and Holder about
whether they’ve conducted research on the trade-offs between
settling and litigating.  White said in testimony before a House Appropriations
subcommittee May 7 that the SEC is reviewing its practice of
settling cases without requiring defendants to admit guilt.  The policy has benefited investors while saving SEC
resources, White testified. The settlements leave no question
“about what the conduct was,” she said.  Compliance Action  Visa Europe Offers to Cap Credit-Card Fees to End EU Probe  Visa Europe Ltd. plans to “significantly” reduce the fees
it sets for processing cross-border credit-card payments in a
bid to allay European Union competition concerns, the bloc’s
antitrust watchdog said.  Visa Europe’s offer would bring its fees in line with those
of its main competitor  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the European Commission
said yesterday. The operator of the EU’s largest payment-card
network also committed to overhaul its rules so that banks will
be able to apply a reduced cross-border interbank fee when they
compete for clients cross-border.  Visa Europe proposed to reduce by 40 percent to 60 percent
its so-called interbank fees for credit-card payments to a level
of 0.3 percent of the value of the transaction for cross-border
and domestic transactions, the commission said. The remedies
would last for four years. Visa Europe was sent a formal
complaint over the levies last year.  Joaquin Almunia, the EU’s antitrust commissioner, said in a
video statement that antitrust officials will carry out a so-called market test with industry groups before deciding to make
the commitments legally binding.  Visa Europe’s so-called multilateral interchange fees
“harm competition between acquiring banks, inflate the cost of
payment card acceptance for merchants and ultimately increase
consumer prices,” the commission said yesterday.  “Today’s outcome is the result of constructive dialogue
between Visa Europe and the European Commission and is  in line 
with the level of 0.3 percent established in the industry,”
Peter Ayliffe, Visa Europe’s chief executive officer, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Cheung Kong Cancels Hotel-Room Sales After Regulator Probe  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , the developer controlled by
Asia’s richest man, is canceling the sale of HK$1.4 billion
($180 million) of hotel rooms after Hong Kong’s securities
regulator began a probe into the transactions.  Cheung Kong, controlled by billionaire  Li Ka-Shing , will
return all deposits and part payments plus interest to all the
buyers of the individual rooms at the Apex Horizon project in
the city’s west, after being notified by the  Securities and
Futures Commission  that the sales constitute a unauthorized
“collective investment scheme,” the developer said in a
statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange May 13.  The sale of the 360 hotel rooms in February drew the
government’s ire as it was seen as a means of skirting an
increase in taxes on apartments that was aimed at cooling
prices. Within days of the sale, the government extended the
taxes to include hotels and other commercial property, and sent
inspectors to check that Apex Horizon units weren’t being used
as residences.  “We do not agree” with the SFC, Cheung Kong said in a
separate e-mailed statement. The decision was made “as the
difference in legal opinion may lead to legal uncertainty in
respect of the sale and purchase of the hotel room units, which
may affect the buyers’ ownership, mortgage arrangement or
subsequent sale of the hotel room units,” the company said.  Hong Kong’s securities law requires the regulator’s
authorization before a collective investment scheme can be
marketed to the public, according to a statement on the SFC’s
website yesterday.  The SFC intended to start legal proceedings seeking orders
to unwind the sale, according to the statement. The agreement
with Cheung Kong avoids court action at this stage, it said.  For more, click here.  EU Confirms Raids on Companies in Oil and Biofuels Sector  The European Commission said antitrust officials raided the
premises of “several companies active in and providing services
to the crude oil, refined oil products and biofuels sectors.”  These inspections took place in two European Union member
states, the commission said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The raids took place over concerns the companies “may have
colluded in reporting distorted prices to a price reporting
agency to manipulate the published prices for a number of oil
and biofuel products,” the commission said in the statement.  Inspections were also carried out on its behalf by the
European Free Trade Association’s Surveillance Authority in one
European Economic Area member state, the Brussels-based
commission said.  Separately, EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia
said officials carried out surprise inspections at “a number of
producers of white sugar in several member states,” last month,
without providing further details.  Courts  Ranbaxy to Pay $500 Million to Settle Criminal, Civil Cases  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  agreed to pay $500 million to
resolve fraud allegations made in a whistle-blower’s lawsuit and
federal criminal charges that the company sold adulterated drugs
while lying about it to U.S. regulators.  Ranbaxy, in papers filed in federal court in Baltimore May
13, admitted it sold batches of drugs that were improperly
manufactured, stored and tested. The company,  India ’s biggest
drugmaker, also pleaded guilty to making fraudulent statements
to the Food and Drug Administration about how it tested drugs at
two of its Indian plants.  The resolution of the lawsuits and the criminal charges
filed yesterday caps allegations about Ranbaxy’s practices
dating to 2003 when the company distributed a batch of acne
medication it knew had failed a quality test, according to the
criminal charges.  In January 2012, Ranbaxy settled an FDA lawsuit by agreeing
to stop production of drugs for the U.S. market at the two
plants until they met American standards. In 2007, the whistle-blower’s lawsuit, unsealed May 13, alleged the company defrauded
public health-care programs.  The felony criminal charges included provision for the
payment of a fine and forfeiture of funds. The false claims
portion of the settlement directs the company to pay the U.S.
and states, as well as the whistle-blower in the civil case,
Dinesh Thakur, of Belle Mead, New Jersey, a former Ranbaxy
executive.  “While we are disappointed by the conduct of the past that
led to this investigation, we strongly believe that settling
this matter now is in the best interest of all of Ranbaxy’s
stakeholders,” Arun Sawhney, chief executive officer and
managing director of Gurgaon, India-based Ranbaxy, said in a
statement. “The conclusion of the DOJ investigation does not
materially impact our current financial situation or
performance.”  The company said in the settlement agreement to the lawsuit
that it denies wrongdoing in the civil case.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Ranbaxy U.S.A., 13-cr-00238,
U.S. District Court,  Maryland  (Baltimore). The civil case is
Thakur v. Ranbaxy U.S.A. Inc., 07-cv-00962, U.S. District Court,
Maryland (Baltimore).  Interviews/Panels  Credit-Ratings Industry Is Oligarchy to Be Broken, Franken Says  Senator Al Franken, a Democrat from  Minnesota , said
financial regulators must intervene in the credit ratings
industry or risk another U.S. financial “catastrophe.”  “My plea today is that you take action,” Franken said at
Securities and Exchange Commission credit ratings roundtable in
 Washington  yesterday.  The ratings companies  S&P (MHP)  and  Moody’s (MCO)  didn’t give financial
products “accurate, objective ratings,” Franken said.  Senator Roger Wicker, a Republican from  Mississippi , urged
the SEC to take the “next steps” to revamp industry.  Franken said his joint bill with Wicker would require the
agency to name an independent board that would appoint different
credit rating agencies to assign ratings based on an agency’s
expertise and eventually its track record. Such a set-up would
restore trust in the market and allow smaller agencies to break
up the current “oligarchy,” Franken said.  SEC Commissioner Luis Aguilar, who also spoke at the
roundtable, said “the past can’t be repeated.”  In November, the SEC said credit-ratings companies failed
to follow their own standards, were late in downgrading deals,
and delayed disclosure of methodology changes.  Dodd-Frank requires regulators to stop relying on ratings
and increase oversight of companies that issue them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New York  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  