-- Weiner Hires Manager for NYC Mayoral Run, Politico Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-05-15T21:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/weiner-hires-manager-for-nyc-mayoral-run-politico-says.html
Anthony Weiner, the former U.S.
congressman who resigned in 2011 over lewd online behavior,
hired a campaign manager and is likely to announce his run for
 New York  mayor next week, according to Politico.  Weiner, 48, hired Daniel Kedem, a former campaign adviser
affiliated with the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee,
the Washington-based news website said, citing two people
familiar with the situation that weren’t identified.  “I definitely have to decide soon,” Weiner told  Newsday
reporters outside his Manhattan home today, according to the
newspaper. “People have a right to be skeptical, and hopefully
if I run, they’ll get a chance to judge me based on the
issues.”  The Democrat, who is polling second in the mayor’s race and
served 12 years in the  House of Representatives , raised the
possibility of a mayoral run in an April New York Times Magazine
interview. He has about $4.3 million in campaign funds from an
aborted 2009 run for the Democratic mayoral nomination.  “Most people involved in city politics have believed he
would run, and with the first days of petition gathering set for
June 4, Weiner has to set up a field operation,” said George Arzt, a political consultant not involved with this year’s
mayoral race. “Once you start hiring people, that’s really the
same as announcing.”  Congressional Campaign  Weiner didn’t respond to e-mailed requests for comment on
his plans. Kedem, who worked on the failed 2012 Staten Island
congressional race of Democrat  Mark Murphy , didn’t respond to e-mails and telephone calls seeking comment.  Kedem’s name doesn’t appear in expenses Weiner listed in a
city campaign financial disclosure statement today. The report
covers a period from March 12 through May 11.  To qualify for a position on the ballot in the Sept. 10
primary election, state law requires citywide candidates to
collect 3,750 voter signatures on petitions during a period that
begins June 4 and ends July 11, said Valerie Vazquez, a
spokeswoman for the city Board of Elections.  A Marist College poll released last month showed Weiner
running second among Democratic candidates for mayor, even
though he hadn’t entered the race.  Trailing Quinn  Weiner was favored by 15 percent of 556 registered Democrats
polled by telephone April 11-15, behind City Council Speaker
Christine Quinn, who got 26 percent, the survey showed. He told
the New York Times last month that he may re-enter politics and
join the race to replace Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , the founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Term
limits  prevent the mayor from running again.  Other Democratic candidates in the poll included
Comptroller  John Liu , with 12 percent; Public Advocate Bill de Blasio and former Comptroller  William Thompson , tied at 11
percent; and former City Councilman Sal Albanese, with 2
percent. Undecided voters made up 22 percent of respondents.
Democrats outnumber Republicans by 6-to-1 in  New York City .  Half of Democrats surveyed say they wouldn’t consider
voting for Weiner. The poll of Democrats had a margin of error
of plus or minus 4.2 percentage points.  Weiner’s resignation came after he said that he engaged in
“inappropriate conversations” with six women over the previous
three years, including by e-mail and telephone and on the
websites of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc.  He had publicly denied sending a racy photograph of himself
to a Seattle woman using Twitter.com, saying his account was
hacked. The photo showed a man from the waist down in gray
underwear.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  