-- Wholesale Prices in U.S. Decrease by Most in Three Years
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-05-15T12:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-fell-in-april-by-most-in-three-years.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S. dropped
in April by the most in three years, reflecting a decrease in
fuel costs that is helping underpin profits.  The producer-price index declined 0.7 percent, the biggest
decrease since February 2010, after falling 0.6 percent in
March, according to a Labor Department report released today in
Washington. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 73
economists projected the index would decline 0.6 percent. So-called core wholesale inflation, which excludes often-volatile
food and energy prices, climbed 0.1 percent.  Slow growth in the U.S. and abroad is holding input-price
gains in check for American factories. Absent a surge in
inflation, policy makers at the  Federal Reserve  have the option
of weighing whether the U.S. economic expansion needs more
stimulus to pick up.  “For now, producers are in a pretty comfortable
position,” said Jacob Oubina, a senior economist at RBC Capital
Markets LLC in  New York , who correctly forecast the April drop
in prices. “Input costs are benign at the moment.”  Another report today showed manufacturing in the New York
region unexpectedly shrank in May as factories received fewer
orders and sales stagnated. The Federal Reserve Bank of New
York’s general economic index declined to minus 1.4 this month
from 3.1 in April. Readings less than zero signal contraction in
New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut . The
median projection in a Bloomberg survey called for an increase
to 4.  Shares Fall  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June
fell 0.2 percent to 1,645.2 at 8:43 a.m. in New York.  Economists’ estimates for the April producer-price index
ranged from a drop of 1.2 percent to a gain of 0.5 percent. The
increase in  core  wholesale prices matched the median forecast in
the Bloomberg survey.  Compared with a year ago, companies paid 0.6 percent more
for materials in April, the smallest year-to-year gain since
July. The core price index climbed 1.7 percent in the past 12
months through April, the same as in the prior month, today’s
report showed.  Fuel costs dropped 2.5 percent in April from the previous
month, led by an 8.8 percent plunge in the cost of home heating
oil that was the biggest in almost four years.  Food Costs  The cost of finished consumer foods declined 0.8 percent as
vegetable prices fell by almost 11 percent. Squash prices
plunged 62 percent, the most in five years.  Prices also dropped further down the production pipeline.
Expenses for intermediate goods, including  diesel fuel  and
chemicals, decreased 0.6 percent. Costs for crude goods, such as
corn and metals, fell 0.4 percent.  Officials at the Fed are debating what slower inflation
means for monetary policy. Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said yesterday that recent tepid price
gains don’t yet warrant a response.  “Should inflation expectations begin to fall, we might
need to take action to defend our inflation goal, but at this
point, I do not see inflation or deflation as a serious threat
in the near term,” Plosser said.  Bullard’s View  Central bankers including St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said last month persistent disinflation may require the
Fed to provide stimulus beyond the $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases it has already undertaken.  Consumer prices rose 1 percent in March from a year
earlier, the least since October 2009 as measured by the Fed’s
preferred gauge of inflation. The Fed aims for a 2 percent
inflation pace.  Manufacturing executives, such as those at  Cooper Tire &
Rubber Co. (CTB) , the second-largest U.S. tiremaker, have also taken
notice of the lack of price pressures.  “We believe raw material prices have been constrained due
to relative low growth in the global economy,” Roy Armes, the
Findlay, Ohio-based tiremaker’s chief executive officer, said
during a May 9 earnings call. An index of input costs tracked by
Cooper was down 10 percent in the first quarter compared with a
year earlier, he said. “However, we continue to maintain that,
on a longer-term basis, raw-material prices will generally trend
higher and, at times, may be volatile as economic growth gains
momentum in the future.”  The producer-price index is one of three monthly inflation
gauges released by the Labor Department. The import-price index,
published yesterday, fell 0.5 percent in April on cheaper fuel.
The consumer-price index, due tomorrow, is expected to decline
0.3 percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  