-- Korea Won Completes Weekly Loss on Intervention Risk; Bonds Drop
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-05-16T07:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/won-falls-toward-3-week-low-on-intervention-concerns-bonds-drop.html
South Korea’s won completed the worst
week in more than a month on speculation authorities will weaken
the currency to safeguard exports after the yen slumped to a
four-year low.  Government bonds  declined.  The Financial Services Commission will monitor market risks
including the weak yen and take preemptive measures if needed,
it said in an e-mailed statement today. Finance Minister Hyun Oh
Seok said companies should strengthen their competitiveness as
the Japanese currency is likely to stay low for “quite some
time,” according to a Yonhap News report yesterday. Local
markets will close tomorrow for a public holiday.  “Although it’s still uncertain, there’s speculation on
possible intervention by the authorities,” said Son Eun Jeong,
an analyst at Woori Futures Co. in  Seoul . “Because of global
monetary easing policies, investors are looking for riskier
assets for profit, which may support the won.”  The won fell 0.9 percent this week to 1,116.6 per dollar in
Seoul, the biggest weekly drop since the period ended April 5,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,118.96
today, the weakest level since April 24. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate 
used to price options, rose 86 basis points this week and 21
basis points today to 8.5 percent.  The yen reached 102.76 per dollar yesterday, the weakest
level since October 2008, and was trading at 102.42 today, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The won rallied 13 percent against
the yen this year and fell 4.7 percent versus the dollar.  Producer Prices  That makes it harder for Korean exporters such as Samsung
Electronics Co. and Hyundai Motor Co. to compete against
Japanese rivals overseas.  Foreign funds  sold $5 billion more
Korean equities than they bought this year through yesterday,
data show.  Japan ’s aggressive monetary easing has a “big impact” on
 South Korea ’s economy, Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo
said last week after the central bank unexpectedly cut its
benchmark seven-day repurchase rate by a quarter percentage
point to 2.5 percent.  South Korean producer prices fell 2.8 percent in April from
a year earlier, the most since October 2009, according to
central bank data released today.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent government bonds
due March 2018 climbed two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, this week to 2.65 percent, prices from Korea Exchange
Inc. show. It fell one basis point today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  