-- World’s Worst Bonds Brace for Losses on Abe Growth: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-05-15T02:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/world-s-worst-bonds-brace-for-losses-on-abe-growth-japan-credit.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s stimulus
probably helped the Japanese economy grow the most in a year,
adding to pressure on 2013’s worst-performing bond market.  Gross domestic product  likely expanded an annualized 2.7
percent in the three months through March, according to the
median forecast in a survey of 36 economists before data
tomorrow. Japanese bonds declined 14 percent in dollar terms
this year, versus a 0.1 percent loss in Treasuries and a 1.5
percent drop in German bunds, indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies show.
Inflation expectations rose to the most since at least 2009.  Abe’s push for monetary and fiscal stimulus to overcome
more than a decade of deflation is invigorating demand among
consumers, as a 46 percent surge in the  Topix Index (TPX)  of shares
this year boosts confidence. The economic rebound is also
spurring expectations that consumer prices will increase as the
yen tumbles, causing bond yields to surge in spite of a doubling
of debt purchases under  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda.  “Consumer sentiment is improving and consumption is
gathering steam at an unexpectedly rapid pace, becoming a
locomotive for  Japan ’s economic rebound,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a
senior economist in Tokyo at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management
Co., which manages the equivalent of $101 billion in assets.
“If the GDP data show a very strong expansion, that’s bad news
for Japan’s bond market.” He predicts 2.9 percent annualized
growth.  Stimulus Measures  Abe, who came to power in December, budgeted an extra 10.3
trillion yen ($101 billion) in fiscal spending. Kuroda’s BOJ
policy board decided last month to double debt buying to more
than 7 trillion yen a month to achieve 2 percent inflation in
two years.  The measures are aimed at supporting the world’s third-largest economy, which has suffered through three technical
recessions in the last five years. Abe is also trying to end
more than a decade of persistent price declines that have
weighed on consumer demand.  Japanese  government bonds  have tumbled this week amid
speculation he may succeed. Benchmark  10-year yields  climbed 5
1/2 basis points, or 0.055 percentage point, to 0.9 percent
today. That extended an increase of 25 1/2 basis points in the
previous three sessions that was the most since August 2003.  Breakeven Rate  Abe is also fueling the market’s inflation expectations,
according to the  breakeven rate , a measure of investors’ outlook
for consumer prices. The gauge is signaling annual inflation of
1.86 percent over the next five years, the most on record going
back to June 2009.  “The gains in bond yields reflect expectations of economic
recovery in Japan and the U.S.,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a
senior strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which
oversees more than $69 billion in Tokyo. “I expect the Japanese
economy to improve going forward with an accelerated pickup in
the U.S. and the delayed effects of the yen weakness.”  Ishigane forecast Japan’s 10-year yield may reach 1 percent
this year.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Lixil Group Corp.
canceled a plan to sell 7-year and 10-year bonds, according to a
statement yesterday from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. The Tokyo-based housing material maker cited
“sudden market changes” for the decision, the brokerage said.  Corporate Bonds  Hokuriku Electric Power Co. offered 20 billion yen of 1.04
percent, eight-year notes, according to a statement from Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. The utility based in Toyama, central Japan,
sold 10-year debt paying 1.158 percent in February, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s corporate bonds have handed investors a 0.52
percent loss this month, compared with a 1.38 percent decline in
the nation’s sovereign debt, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Company notes worldwide have lost 0.68
percent.  Abe’s stimulus has helped weaken the yen by more than 20
percent against the dollar in the past six months, the most of
16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded at 102.27
per dollar as of 10:51 a.m. in  Tokyo , after falling to 102.43,
matching the weakest since October 2008. A depreciating currency
boosts the value of overseas income at Japanese exporters when
repatriated and makes their products more competitive abroad.  Earnings Improve  Aggregate net income for the 166 companies on the Nikkei
225 Stock Average who have declared earnings for the three
months ending March 31 rose to 1.78 trillion yen, a 45 percent
increase on year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Toyota Motor Corp.’s profit more than doubled to 314
billion yen last quarter, the world’s largest automaker said
last week. The company estimates it earns about 40 billion yen
every time Japan’s currency weakens by 1 yen against the dollar.  Gains in  consumer spending  are set to drive economic
growth, with a  private consumption index  rising 0.9 percent in
the first quarter compared with the previous three months.
 Consumer confidence  in April is forecast to rise to the highest
in almost six years.  Home purchases also supported growth in the first quarter.
 Housing starts  rose for seven straight months through March,
according to government data.  Bond prices may stabilize after this week’s plunge as the
central bank pushes ahead with its purchases of the debt,
according to Hiroshi Shiraishi, a senior economist at BNP
Paribas SA in Tokyo.  BOJ Effect  “While the pace of Japan’s economic growth has quickened,
driven mainly by the stimulus measures, bond yields will stay
low on the BOJ’s strong monetary easing,” said Shiraishi, who
projects an annualized 3.2 percent growth for the period.  Finance Minister Taro Aso said yesterday it’s “natural”
for investors to shift funds to stocks as they rise, and that is
behind the advance in bond yields. The Topix advanced 2.2
percent to 1,257.89 at 10:27 a.m., near the highest level since
August 2008.  Five-year credit-default swaps to insure Japan’s sovereign
bonds were at 55 basis points yesterday after falling to 54 on
May 13, the lowest since November 2010, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The drop suggests there’s little concern in the market
about the government’s finances even as public debt will
probably expand to 245 percent of GDP this year, according to
the International Monetary Fund’s estimate.  Living costs in Japan are far from rising to the BOJ’s 2
percent target.  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food fell 0.5
percent from a year earlier in March, marking the fifth straight
month of declines, government data showed last month.  “In their hearts, Prime Minister Abe and government
officials might not really want to see inflation rising to the
BOJ’s goal because that runs the risk of driving up bond
yields,” said Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management’s Muto. “A jump
in  interest rates  could bankrupt the nation’s finances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  