-- Yankee Stadium to Host Rangers, Devils, Islanders in NHL Games
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-15T18:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/yankee-stadium-to-host-rangers-devils-islanders-in-nhl-games.html
New York’s Yankee Stadium will host a
National Hockey League double-header next season, with the  New
York Rangers  facing the New Jersey Devils on Jan. 26 and playing
the  New York Islanders  three days later.  The games complete the NHL’s 2014 Stadium Series, which
also includes a Jan. 25 matchup between the Anaheim Ducks and
Los Angeles Kings at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, and a March
1 contest between the  Pittsburgh Penguins  and Chicago Blackhawks
at Chicago’s  Soldier Field .  Yankee Stadium hasn’t hosted a hockey game since opening in
2009 next to the original Major League Baseball venue.  “The innovative nature of the Stadium Series affords the
opportunity to have all three NHL teams in the New York-New
Jersey metropolitan area play, outdoors, at one of the most-celebrated stadiums in the world,” NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman said in a statement. “We’ll be able to create a multi-faceted, multi-day experience for our fans.”  The Rangers, Islanders and Devils have combined to win 11
Stanley Cup championships, including eight of the past 32.  The Sunday, Jan. 26 game between the Rangers and Devils has
a 12:30 p.m. start time, while the Jan. 29 matchup between the
Rangers and Islanders starts at 7:30 p.m.  The NHL’s first regular-season game contested outdoors was
played in 2003, when the Edmonton Oilers hosted the  Montreal
Canadiens  at Commonwealth Stadium. Since then, the NHL has held
six more regular-season games outdoors, including the Rangers’
3-2 win over the Philadelphia Flyers in the 2012 NHL Winter
Classic at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia.  Five of the six most-watched regular-season NHL games in
the U.S. in the past 38 years were played outdoors.  In addition to the Stadium Series, the NHL’s 2014 Winter
Classic is scheduled for Jan. 1, when the Detroit Red Wings host
the  Toronto Maple Leafs  at Michigan Stadium on the University of
Michigan campus. The 110,000-seat stadium is the biggest in the
U.S. and could break its own record for largest attendance at a
hockey game, as 104,000 fans were at a 2010 contest between
Michigan and Michigan State.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  