-- YPF Rises Most in 5 Months on Chevron Deal: Buenos Aires Mover
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-05-15T18:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/ypf-rises-most-in-5-months-on-chevron-deal-buenos-aires-mover.html
YPF SA, Argentina’s biggest energy
company, rose the most in almost five months after it said
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-biggest U.S. oil company, will be the
first major crude producer to partner with it to develop shale
oil and natural gas.  YPF gained 8.3 percent to 114.80 pesos at 3:15 p.m. in
 Buenos Aires . The  stock earlier  rose as much as 10 percent to
116.50, the biggest intraday increase since Nov. 23.  Miguel Galuccio, chief executive officer of YPF, and  Ali Moshiri , Chevron’s head of  Latin America , Middle East and
 Africa , visited the Patagonia shale formation yesterday, the
Buenos Aires-based company said late yesterday in a statement.
Moshiri was “surprised” with the advanced state of YPF’s
exploration project, the Argentine company said in the
statement.  “The news saying Chevron will finally seal its $1.5
billion deal with YPF has indeed triggered this rally because it
isn’t any company, it is Chevron,” Carlos Aszpis, an analyst at
Schweber & Cia. Sociedad de Bolsa, said by telephone from Buenos
Aires. “Argentina just needs more companies like Chevron
trusting in the country.”  Moshiri and Galuccio in December signed an agreement to
negotiate final terms for YPF to transfer a 50 percent interest
in the fields Loma de la Lata Norte and Loma Campana. The fields
for the $1.5 billion joint venture comprise an area of 290
square kilometers (180 miles) in southwestern  Argentina .  Alejandro Di Lazzaro, a YPF spokesman, declined to comment
in a phone interview from Neuquen on reasons for YPF’s rally.  YPF said it is pumping 7,000 barrels of oil a day, up from
4,000 in January. Vaca Muerta, which means “dead cow” in
Spanish, holds at least 23 billion barrels of oil equivalent,
according to a report by independent auditor Ryder Scott
released in February 2012 by YPF. Argentina holds the world’s
third-largest shale gas reserves, according to U.S. Energy
Information Administration data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  