-- ThyssenKrupp ‘Cannot Exclude’ Capital Raising Over Next 9
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-05-15T15:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/thyssenkrupp-to-cut-3-000-jobs-as-loss-widens-on-writedown-1-.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s biggest
steelmaker, said it can’t rule out the need to raise capital in
the next nine months after a 683 million-euro ($880 million)
writedown of its Steel Americas unit widened its quarterly loss.  The net loss increased to 656 million euros ($845 million)
in the second quarter from 587 million euros a year earlier, the
Essen, Germany-based company said today in a statement. The
steelmaker said it will cut 3,000 administrative jobs.  “We cannot fully exclude a capital increase for the next
six to nine months” due to “limited balance sheet capacity,”
Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger  said today on a
conference call.  ThyssenKrupp confirmed its outlook for adjusted earnings
before interest and taxes from continuing operations of about 1
billion euros for the year ending in September. Sales will be
down from the 40.1 billion euros a year earlier, it said. The
number of administrative staff will be cut within the next three
years from current levels of about 15,000.  “Despite a persistently difficult economic environment we
are on track to meet our operating targets for the full year,”
Hiesinger said in the statement. The disposal of the company’s
Steel Americas unit “is also running to plan. We remain focused
on signing a deal promptly.”  ThyssenKrupp fell 1.7 percent to 14.85 euros in  Frankfurt 
trading.  Waning Demand  The company is selling plants in  Brazil  and the U.S. as it
reduces the number of business units to five from eight while
expanding non-steel operations. Waning demand from the auto and
construction industries and competition from  China  has pushed
steel prices lower and squeezed producers’ profit margins.  “The targets ThyssenKrupp reached must be very low,”
Hans-Peter Wodniok, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH & Co KG, said
by phone from Kronberg near Frankfurt. “It’s going downhill
everywhere except for elevators and industrial solutions. The
drop in sales is accelerating. That shows it’s getting even more
difficult.”  Cia.  Siderurgica Nacional (CSNA3)  SA, Brazil’s third-largest
steelmaker, has emerged as the leading bidder for ThyssenKrupp’s
Brazilian and U.S. steel-plant assets, people with knowledge of
the talks said earlier this month. ThyssenKrupp and CSN could
sign an agreement in coming weeks, said one of the people.  While Hiesinger confirmed today that there’s a leading
bidder for the assets, he didn’t name the party and said the
steelmaker is continuing talks with other potential buyers.  ThyssenKrupp’s adjusted loss before interest and taxes at
the Steel Americas unit narrowed to 12 million euros from 228
million euros a year earlier.  While the group’s equity ratio fell to 9.5 percent in the
quarter, it said it’s “solidly financed.” Adjusted Ebit fell
33 percent to 241 million euros, beating the average 202.3
million-euro estimate of 15 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  