-- Zloty Slumps to Five-Week Low as Inflation Slowest Since 2006
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-05-15T15:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-15/zloty-slumps-to-five-week-low-as-inflation-slowest-since-2006.html
Poland’s currency declined to a five-week low as inflation decelerating to the slowest pace in almost
seven years boosted speculation the central bank will cut
interest rates.  The zloty weakened 0.5 percent to 4.1871 against the euro
at 5 p.m. in Warsaw, the worst performance among more than 20
emerging-market peers tracked by Bloomberg behind the Czech
koruna. Forward-rate agreements, used to bet on future interest
rate changes, retreated for the first time in three days.  Consumer prices  rose 0.8 percent in April from a year
earlier, the lowest rate since June 2006, the statistics office
in Warsaw said today. That compares with the 0.7 percent median
estimate of 36 economists in a Bloomberg survey. There is “some
room” to cut rates further, Anna Zielinska-Glebocka, member of
the central bank’s rate-setting committee, told TVN CNBC in an
interview today after the data was released.  “While inflation came in slightly above expectations, it
is still declining and is now visibly below 1 percent,” Andrzej Krzeminski, head of foreign exchange at Bank BPH SA, said by
phone today. “Weaker current-account data had negative
influence on the zloty.”  The  current-account  gap was 200 million euros ($257
million) in March, more than double the 79 million-euro
shortfall predicted in a Bloomberg survey.  Inflation slowed for a seventh straight month in April, the
longest streak in eight years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  If the central bank chooses to cut rates, it should do it
“quickly,” Zielinska-Glebocka said in the TVN CNBC interview.  Six-month forward-rate agreements, derivatives used to bet
on future interest rate changes, fell five basis points to 55
basis points below the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, showing
scope for more than two quarter percentage-point cuts.  The  yield  on the Polish government’s two-year bonds rose
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.52 percent,
increasing for the fourth day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  