-- Advil Ingredient Maker Sees Patent Expiry Boom: Corporate India
-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-11-12T04:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/advil-ingredient-maker-sees-patent-expiry-boom-corporate-india.html
Shasun Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (SAPH) , an
Indian supplier of the main ingredient in  Pfizer (PFE)  Inc.’s  Advil 
pain medicine, expects sales to double in three years on
increasing demand from its generic drugmaker customers.  Revenue may climb to 20 billion rupees ($366 million) by
March 2015, from 10.6 billion rupees in the year ended March 31,
Managing Director S. Abhaya Kumar said in an interview at the
company’s headquarters in Chennai in southern  India . The growth
would largely be driven by sales of ingredients of drugs that
lose patent protection in the next two years, he said.  Shasun, whose  stock  has more than tripled this year,
expects to be the sole supplier of the key ingredients in
Sanofi’s  Renvela  and Daiichi Sankyo Co.’s  Welchol , when patents
on the drugs expire starting 2013, according to Kumar. Shasun
may get more than 2.5 billion rupees in sales catering to the
demand for these two medicines, according to First  Global
Securities Ltd. (GLBS)   “Right now, it looks like we are the only player other
than Sanofi” with the regulatory filings to produce the drug
ingredients, Kumar said. “We see a huge growth coming from
there.”  Generic drugmakers introducing their products after patents
expire, typically source ingredients from other companies that
already have the manufacturing expertise and regulatory
approvals in place.  ‘Quite Strong’  “The company’s overall growth prospects remain quite
strong,” Devina Mehra, an analyst with First Global in Mumbai,
wrote in an Oct. 12 note to clients. Mehra cited Shasun’s
“strong order book position, robust” new drug and active
pharmaceutical ingredient pipelines among the reasons for rating
the stock moderate outperform.  Shasun, backed by OrbiMed Advisors LLC, will sign long-term
contracts with drugmakers and expects to start exports of the
ingredients by June 2013, Kumar said.  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Genzyme unit has had sales of $653 million so far
this year from Renvela and the related drug Renagel, which are
used to control phosphorous levels in patients undergoing  kidney
dialysis , according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.
Daiichi Sankyo’s Welchol cholesterol treatment for diabetics had
 sales  of 26.9 billion yen ($340 million) in the 12 months to
March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Indian drugmaker, which began operations in 1976 as a
supplier of the anti-inflammatory drug ibuprofen, has sought to
diversify and get a greater share of its sales from finished
medicines and contract manufacturing operations. Ibuprofen, the
key ingredient in Pfizer’s Advil, contributed about 25 percent
of sales last year, versus about 50 percent in fiscal 2006,
Mehra wrote in the report.  Drug Outsourcing  This diversification comes as the number of medicines
losing patent protection is set to drop after  peaking in 2012 ,
according to IMS Health Inc. Four drugs with sales exceeding
$500 million will lose patent protection in the U.S. in 2016,
compared with 10 this year, IMS said in July.  The company’s foray into drug outsourcing came with its
acquisition of two factories in England and  Scotland  from a unit
of  France ’s Rhodia SA in April 2006. That division counts
biotech firms and big pharmaceutical companies like  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  and Pfizer as its clients, and produces ingredients for
experimental treatments that are undergoing clinical trials.  The drugmaker currently gets almost half its income from
this business, and plans to invest 4 billion rupees in expanding
plants in southern India and the U.K., Kumar said.  Shasun is the  best-performing health-care stock  this year
of the 500 companies on the National Stock Exchange’s S&P CNX
500 Index. The  shares  rose 1 percent to 145.05 rupees as of 9:54
a.m. in Mumbai trading.  Regulatory Risk  Still, Shasun’s increased focus on contract research and
manufacturing is not without uncertainty, according to Surya Narayan Patra, an analyst at Systematix Shares & Stocks Ltd. The
drug outsourcing business lends itself to greater risk when
suppliers invest in research and build-up capacity, even before
a drug is approved by regulatory authorities, Patra said.  “If for some reason it doesn’t succeed in the clinical
trials, they will lose out,” Mumbai-based Patra said in an
interview. “The predictability of these products is under
question, because there could be delays in the FDA approvals.”  In the last five years, the company has spent 5.4 billion
rupees for acquisitions and factory expansions, according to
First Global’s Mehra. Shasun’s free cash flows, which have been
 negative  for the last nine years according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, are likely to turn positive from April, Mehra wrote.  “The company should begin reaping the benefits of these
investments in the next few years,” Patra said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in  Chennai  at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  