-- Mallya Distiller Sale Seen Falling Short of Kingfisher Needs
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-11-12T11:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/mallya-s-distiller-sale-seen-falling-short-of-kingfisher-revival.html
Vijay Mallya’s sale of a 36.3
billion rupee ($664 million) stake in liquor unit  United Spirits (UNSP) 
Ltd. may not be enough to resolve the cash crunch that forced
his  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  to stop flying.  The Indian brewing tycoon and others agreed to sell 19
percent of United Spirits to London-based  Diageo Plc (DGE)  on Nov. 9
as he seeks funds for the airline. Diageo also intends to buy
another 34 percent of United Spirits, the maker of McDowell’s No.
1 whiskey, to gain a majority.  While the deal eases some of the financial pressure on
Mallya, who lost his billionaire ranking at Forbes last month,
it falls short of the $1 billion that Kingfisher’s biggest
lender has said the carrier needs to raise. The unprofitable
airline halted operations last month after failing to pay wages
because of an 86 billion rupee debt pile.  “The Diageo deal doesn’t fundamentally move the needle an
inch,” said P. Phani Sekhar, a  fund manager  in Mumbai with
Angel Broking Ltd. “Even if the entire proceeds from the deal
is plowed into Kingfisher Airlines that would hardly be enough
to erase existing debt, let alone any question of infusing fresh
equity.”  Mallya, speaking on a conference call following the United
Spirits sale, declined to comment on what the deal means for
Bangalore-based Kingfisher Air, which is named after his
flagship beer.  Stake Sale  Mallya has been seeking to sell a stake in the carrier for
at least a year because of losses caused by price wars, debts
and rising fuel costs. The airline has also cut flights, delayed
new planes and returned other aircraft to lessors to pare costs.  The carrier stopped flying Oct. 1 after staff walked out
because of unpaid wages. They subsequently agreed to return
after management pledged to make payments. In the meantime, the
Directorate General of Civil Aviation suspended the carrier’s
operating license.  Kingfisher is working on a turnaround plan and expects to
resume services in “the near future,” it said in an earnings
press release last week. The airline, which began flying in 2005,
reported a wider net loss of 7.54 billion rupees for the quarter
ended September.  Diageo Deal  Diageo will buy new and existing shares in United Spirits
at 1,440 rupees apiece. That’s a 5.8 percent premium to the Nov.
9 closing price. Mallya’s UB Group will continue to hold 15
percent and he will remain as chairman, according to a statement.
The deal gives Diageo, which already sells Johnnie Walker
whiskey and Smirnoff vodka in  India , control of the largest
distiller in the world’s biggest whiskey-drinking nation.  United Spirits, which also owns brands of Scotch including
Whyte & MacKay, rose by a record 35 percent in Mumbai trading to
1,832.95 rupees. Kingfisher Air climbed 4.4 percent to 14.10
rupees.  The  airline  has dropped 35 percent this year, cutting its
market value to $207 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Jet Airways (India) Ltd. and SpiceJet Ltd., the
nation’s two other listed  carriers , have both more than doubled,
partly because Kingfisher’s flight cuts have helped them boost
sales. Jet’s domestic revenue jumped 35 percent in the quarter
ended September.  Formula One  State Bank  of India Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri said Nov. 7
that Kingfisher should eventually raise $1 billion of fresh
capital. Some of that will have to be found this month, he said,
without saying how much or giving a timeframe for raising the
full amount.  Kingfisher’s founders have contributed 11.5 billion rupees
to the company since April 1, Mallya told shareholders at its
annual meeting Sept. 26. The airline has 10 airworthy planes,
down from 66 in the year ended March 31, 2011, Arun Mishra, the
director general of civil aviation, said last month.  Mallya, who also has a stake in a Formula One team and owns
an Indian Premier League cricket team, had guaranteed $1.1
billion of Kingfisher debt as of March 31, according to the
company’s  annual report . The carrier had slumped from second to
sixth in terms of domestic market share because of flight cuts
and service disruptions caused by unpaid bills.  UB Group will invest in Kingfisher Air to help revive
operations, an Indian government official said Oct. 26, after a
meeting between the regulator and the airline’s chief executive
officer. The carrier must prove it has adequate funds to pay
airports, fuel suppliers and other vendors before the license
suspension can be lifted, said the official, who declined to be
identified citing rules.  “It looks like it will be a difficult proposition to
revive the airline,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , New Delhi-
based chief strategist at SMC Global Securities Ltd. “The
airline business is arguably one of the toughest businesses to
run in the world and Kingfisher is no exception.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  