-- An Obama Economic Team to Sweep Wall Street Clean
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-11-11T23:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/an-obama-economic-team-to-sweep-wall-street-clean.html
When U.S. voters elected Barack Obama president in November 2008, many of us were convinced he
would make a top priority of reforming Wall Street, which had
just almost succeeded in bringing down our way of life through
greed and lack of accountability.  Despite the fact that  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  were among Obama’s top 10
financial backers in 2008, we were hopeful we would see a change
in the system whereby bankers, traders and executives were
rewarded every day to take huge, asynchronous risks with other
people’s money.  We also believed that Obama wouldn’t succumb to the
backroom maneuverings of the plutocrats and behind-the-scenes
money men -- such as former Treasury Secretary  Robert Rubin  and
former Deputy Secretary  Roger Altman  -- who were busy advocating
a quick return to the status quo and looking to move their
friends into positions of great importance in Obama’s Cabinet.  It turned out we were either naive or stupid to think that
when candidate Obama spoke about “change you can believe in,” he
was including Wall Street.  In ways we may never fully understand, Rubin quickly cast
his spell on Obama. Before long, Rubin proteges were appointed
to the three most important economic positions in the new
administration: Timothy Geithner as Treasury secretary,  Lawrence Summers  as national economic adviser and  Peter Orszag  as
director of the Office of Management and Budget. For good
measure, the administration named  Mary Schapiro , the head of the
 Financial Industry Regulatory Authority , Wall Street’s
dysfunctional self-regulatory organization, as chairman of the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Rubin’s Proteges  Summers has gone back to Harvard University, and Orszag is
now at Citigroup (and writes a column for Bloomberg View).
Geithner and Schapiro will be leaving Washington shortly. Yet
other Rubin acolytes --  Gene Sperling , now the national economic
adviser; Jack Lew, Obama’s chief of staff; and  Michael Froman ,
the president’s top international economics adviser -- are still
very much in residence at the White House.  What did these men and women collectively achieve during
Obama’s first term? A remarkably Wall Street-friendly set of
policies. To recap, the big banks continued to be bailed out;
the weak Dodd-Frank financial reform act continues to get
watered down as its specific rules are hammered out; not one
Wall Street trader, banker or executive has been held criminally
liable for actions leading up to the financial crisis; and the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  has doubled since its nadir in March 2009.
The  Federal Reserve  also did its part: pumping trillions of
dollars into the capital markets to keep  interest rates  at rock-
bottom levels (a gift to Wall Street and a tax on savers).  A pretty amazing list of favors, if you think about it. Yet
Wall Street clearly thinks it is owed even more. The antipathy
between the financial sector and Obama has never been greater.
Eight of Republican challenger  Mitt Romney ’s  10 top donors  in
the election were Wall Street firms. (Meanwhile, the markets
responded to Obama’s re-election with a 400-plus point drop.)  So, President Obama, the time has come for you to do in
your second term what many people hoped you would do in the
first: Institute meaningful reform on Wall Street. An essential
first step is to sweep out the remaining vestiges of the Rubin-
Altman nexus. Bring in a new group of people who not only
understand how Wall Street really works but also have dedicated
much of their lives to changing it.  Treasury Pick  Who might some of those people be? For Treasury secretary,
the best choice is Erskine Bowles, who has distinguished himself
as co-chairman of the National Commission on Fiscal
Responsibility and Reform. Although it is true that Bowles was
chief of staff to President  Bill Clinton , and thus rubbed elbows
with Rubin and Altman, he isn’t in that Rubin orbit. He
understands Wall Street -- he founded a small eponymous
investment bank and a private-equity firm, Carousel Capital, and
was a partner at private-equity giant Forstmann Little & Co. --
and did a fine job serving as president of the sprawling
University of North Carolina system.  More important, he has spent the past year shaping his
commission’s report -- despite Obama’s having ignored it -- into
legislation that Congress can take up immediately to try to
resolve the budget deficit and the looming fiscal cliff, the
more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts
scheduled for next year. He has a proven record of
bipartisanship, working well with  Alan Simpson  and the other
Republicans on the commission. Appointing Bowles to Treasury
would show that Obama is serious about getting the country’s
fiscal house in order and finding a more productive relationship
with Wall Street.  To address the vacuum of accountability on Wall Street,
Obama should appoint former  New York  Governor  Eliot Spitzer  as
the new chairman of the SEC. I’m not joking. Having prosecuted
Wall Street misdeeds as New York attorney general a decade ago,
he knows where the bodies are buried and won’t be afraid to dig
them up. As a cable-television host, he has proved to be the
news media’s most aggressive and informed critic of Wall Street.
The question, of course, is whether the president would nominate
him and the Senate would confirm him given his humiliating fall
from grace in a prostitution scandal. My reply: Is only Bill
Clinton entitled to political resurrection?  To replace Sperling, who has had more lives in Washington
than a Persian shorthair, Obama should recruit  Carmen Reinhart ,
a highly respected Harvard economist with an up-from-nothing
personal history that rivals the president’s own (her family
fled Castro’s Cuba with little more than the clothes on their
backs). That she has a keen understanding of how economies get
into financial difficulty and how they get out of them -- she is
the co-author, with  Kenneth Rogoff , of the best-seller “This
Time Is Different” -- is a huge plus. And she calls things as
she sees them: Although usually considered to be on the right of
the political spectrum, she was a  strong detractor  of Romney’s
mathematically illiterate tax plan.  In his victory speech, Obama said, “You voted for action,
not politics as usual.” It was similar to the refrain he used
four years ago, before disappointing us with politics as usual.
By choosing Bowles, Spitzer and Reinhart as the anchors of his
new economic team, he could start proving that this time really
is different.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 