-- Lance Armstrong Quits Cancer Charity to Lessen Damage
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-11-11T23:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/lance-armstrong-cuts-ties-with-livestrong-cancer-charity.html
Lance Armstrong, the seven-time Tour
de France cycling winner stripped of his titles on cheating
allegations, has cut his last official tie to the cancer charity
Livestrong by resigning from its board.  Armstrong, who stepped down as the group’s chairman on Oct.
17, was the target of a report released by the U.S. Anti-Doping
Agency in October that alleged he was part of the largest sports
cheating ring in cycling history.  Armstrong’s last day as a board member at the charity he
founded in 1997 was Nov. 4, according to Katherine McLane, a
spokeswoman for the group. One of the world’s best-known
athletes, Armstrong created the Austin, Texas-based foundation
after testicular cancer nearly ended his career. Its mission is
to connect cancer patients with resources to help with their
care, and to inspire them to live active lives.  “Lance decided to resign from the board of the foundation
to spare it any negative effects as a result of controversy
surrounding his cycling career,” McLane wrote today in an e-
mail.  Armstrong has never said he cheated, and he has repeatedly
denied any such allegations. He chose not to fight the current
round of charges against him, allowing the USADA and the Union
Cycliste Internationale to strip him of his wins.  Yesterday, Armstrong  posted a picture  on his Twitter
account of him lying on the couch, with seven of the yellow
jerseys he won and was recently stripped of framed on the wall
behind him. There is no mention of his latest decision.  Philanthropy Listing  There’s evidence the cheating allegations may have hurt the
charity. In an annual survey published last year, Livestrong was
ranked 343rd among the top 400 charities in the Chronicle of
Philanthropy’s list. This year it fell out of the rankings,
though it remains the top athlete-founded charity.  Armstrong was also dropped by his personal sponsors in
October, including sportswear maker Nike Inc. and sports
eyeglasses company Oakley Inc.  Livestrong is hopeful donors will look past Armstrong’s
alleged cheating to the good work done by the charity in linking
cancer patients with resources, Greg Lee, the foundation’s chief
financial officer, wrote in an e-mail before Armstrong’s board
resignation was announced. The foundation has sufficient
reserves to survive a downturn, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  