-- Antarctica’s Sea Ice ‘Increasing Slowly,’ Scientists Say
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-11-12T21:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/antarctica-s-sea-ice-increasing-slowly-scientists-say.html
(Corrects name of ocean region in sixth paragraph of story
published Nov. 11.)  Sea ice surrounding Antarctica is
expanding due to increased winds, according to a paper published
today in the journal  Nature Geoscience .  “The total Antarctic sea-ice cover is increasing slowly,”
Paul Holland, the lead author of the report, said in a
statement. The report didn’t say how by much the ice is
expanding.  Arctic ice covering the other pole shrank to the smallest
ever in September, one of the most visible effects of climate
change. Increasing wind activity near the South Pole over the
past 19 years has had the opposite effect on the ice cover, said
Ron Kwok, co-author of the report.  “In certain areas, it’s moving the ice edge out toward the
ocean,” Kwok said in an interview.  Antarctica, unlike the Arctic, is significantly more
vulnerable to strong winds because the northern ice cap “is
landlocked, except for certain passages into the ocean,” said
Kwok, a National Aeronautics and Space Administration researcher
at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in  Pasadena ,  California . “It’s
less sensitive to wind.”  Ice cover in the Ross Sea region close to the South Pacific
Ocean, has expanded the most, he said, while in other areas,
“where the wind is pushing toward the coast, it’s shrinking.”  The Arctic ice cap shrank to 3.41 million square kilometers
(1.32 million square miles) on Sept. 16, the lowest in a
satellite record that dates back 33 years, according to the  U.S.
National Snow and Ice Data Center  in Boulder,  Colorado .
Satellite data for the Antarctic ice cover dates back 19 years.  The NSIDC deems an area of ocean to have ice cover if a
section that measures 25 square kilometers is 15 percent
covered. That means strong winds may spread dense ice over a
wider area without changing the total volume.  “We don’t know the thickness,” Kwok said. “We don’t know
the volume of the ice very well. It’s something that we’re still
trying to understand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  