-- Areva, Unable to Obtain Funding, Scraps Australia Solar Plan
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-11-12T01:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/areva-truenergy-solar-projects-won-t-get-funds-australia-says.html
A venture including  Areva SA (AREVA) 
abandoned plans for a A$1 billion ($1 billion) solar-thermal
project in Australia after failing to get government funding.  The Australian Renewable Energy Agency, established last
year to spur investment in the industry, is “no longer pursuing
development” of the 250-megawatt Solar Dawn plant in Queensland
state, it said today in a statement. ARENA also said it won’t
fund a solar power project in Victoria state proposed by  CLP
Holdings Ltd. (2) ’s Australian unit, EnergyAustralia.  While Paris-based Areva and its partner, Wind Prospect
Group Ltd., won’t go ahead with Solar Dawn, the venture
“remains committed to Australia’s large-scale concentrated
solar power industry,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  The government agency said it’s continuing talks with
Pacific Hydro Pty and Fotowatio Renewable Ventures about their
proposed solar farm in New South Wales as the nation moves
toward a target of getting 20 percent of its power from
renewable energy by the end of the decade. ARENA also is still
in discussions with  Infigen Energy (IFN)  and  Suntech Power Holdings
Co. (STP)  on another planned solar project in New South Wales.  ‘Disappointed’  Although the Areva venture was awarded A$464 million in
Australian government funds in 2011 to develop the solar plant,
it failed to meet a June 30 financing deadline and to reach a
power-supply agreement. The  Queensland government  also pulled
A$75 million in funding for the project. The federal government
in July referred Solar Dawn to ARENA for consideration.  The Australian Renewable Energy Agency has about A$2.2
billion in funds available for investment, it said today as it
released the organization’s funding strategy.  EnergyAustralia is seeking to develop a solar project in
northern Victoria with a capacity of as much as 180 megawatts.
The Melbourne-based company is “disappointed with the
decision,” it said in an e-mailed statement. “We will continue
to assess what funding options are available.”  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK)  in June won A$129.7
million in government funds to build a 159-megawatt solar
project across two sites in New South Wales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  