-- Australia’s Military Cuts Understandable, U.S. Ambassador Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-11-11T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/australia-s-military-cuts-understandable-u-s-ambassador-says.html
Australia ’s military spending cuts
are understandable and don’t jeopardize its alliance with the
U.S., Ambassador Jeffrey Bleich said before the country hosts
talks with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  “We understand there are going to be these adjustments in
budgets year-to-year but in terms of commitments, we hear the
same thing we always hear from Australia,” Bleich said in an
interview with Sky News television yesterday. “They will meet
their commitment to us as allies.”  President  Barack Obama  is promoting a military “pivot”
away from the  Middle East , part of a U.S. push to expand its
footprint in the Asia-Pacific area as  China ’s military power
grows, as an opportunity to boost cooperation in the region.  Australia, which has begun hosting Marines in its northern
port of Darwin under an agreement announced by Obama and Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  a year ago, in May said defense spending
will be cut by A$5.4 billion ($5.6 billion) over four years.  “There have been periods where the U.S. has had to make
adjustments in its own defense spending and our allies have
always shown confidence in us that, no matter what our budget
demands are, we’re always going to meet our obligations to our
allies and also maintain the security needs of the U.S.,”
Bleich said in the interview from Australia’s national capital,
Canberra. “We’ve seen that in Australia.”  Clinton’s Visit  Clinton, who is embarking on a 10-day Asia-Pacific trip,
and Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta  are due to discuss
security co-operation with Australia’s Foreign Minister  Stephen Smith  and Foreign Minister Bob Carr in Perth on Nov. 14.  The secretary of state will discuss U.S. concern over
Australia’s cuts to defense spending at the meeting, the Age
newspaper reported Nov. 10, citing Assistant Secretary of State
for East Asian and Pacific Affairs  Kurt Campbell . The nation’s
defense budget this fiscal year is set to be 1.56 percent of
gross domestic product, down from 1.8 percent last year,
according to the report.  Campbell’s comments to the Melbourne newspaper were
“misinterpreted,” Bleich said yesterday. Smith, in an
Australian Broadcasting Corp. interview yesterday, said the
nation’s cuts to defense spending, triggered by Gillard’s push
to get the national budget back into surplus next year, won’t be
discussed at the annual talks in Perth.  Military Ally  “The assertion that somehow the U.S. is coming here to
talk about our defense cuts is frankly a nonsense,” Smith said.
“Defense cuts are not on the agenda. We’re going to deal with
the sweep of strategic issues that are of importance to us.”  Australia, a military ally of the U.S. for more than 60
years, is allowing as many as 2,500 Marines to be based in
Darwin. Both nations, involved in the war in  Afghanistan , intend
to withdraw most combat troops from that country by the end of
2014.  “We’re continuing with our enhanced, practical co-
operation with the U.S. through the rotation of Marines in
Darwin and the prospect of enhanced aerial aviation down the
track,” Smith said.  Allowing the U.S. Navy greater access to Australia’s Indian
Ocean naval base HMAS Stirling in Perth is “a number of years
off,” he said. Smith confirmed that  Indonesia  would be involved
in military exercises with Marines and Australian forces next
year.  Nuclear Submarines  Leaders in Australia’s opposition Liberal-National
coalition, favored in polls to win elections due next year, want
to open the debate with the U.S. over the possible purchase of
nuclear submarines to replace the navy’s diesel fleet, the
Australian Financial Review reported Nov. 10.  “It’s an idea to speculate about, but it’s so far away
from ever being a serious policy consideration,” Bleich said.
Australia, which doesn’t allow nuclear generation, doesn’t have
the technological capacity for such a plan to be feasible, he
said.  Clinton will travel to Adelaide after the talks in Perth to
tour military ship- and submarine-builder Techport Australia
before heading to  Southeast Asia , the State Department said Nov.
9 in an e-mailed statement from  Washington . Some of her trip to
the region will coincide with the itinerary of Obama, who will
this month become the first U.S. head of state to visit Myanmar
while in office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  