-- Australia Business Investment Phase Nearing Peak, Deloitte Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-11T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/australia-business-investment-phase-nearing-peak-deloitte-says.html
Australia ’s business investment rose
last quarter, spurred by projects in the state of Queensland,
even as weaker commodity prices sparked a drop in sites under
consideration, a Deloitte Access Economics report showed.  The value of projects under construction or committed
climbed 3.8 percent to A$461.7 billion ($481 billion) as of
Sept. 30 from the prior quarter, the Canberra-based  research
company  said in a report released today. In contrast, a lack of
new plans and some cancellations resulted in the value of
projects categorized as under consideration or possible falling
A$10.6 billion to A$465 billion, Deloitte said.  “For the construction leg of the mining boom, the summit
is now approaching,” according to the report, which predicted a
peak in 2014. “What has been the big growth driver of the
Australian economy over recent years -- business investment --
will be now somewhat absent.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia last week reduced its 2013
economic growth forecast as lower spending in  iron-ore , coal and
natural-gas projects restrains the economy. It cited the local
currency’s sustained strength -- even as commodity prices
dropped last quarter -- as a factor in decisions by mining
companies to put off some investment.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s delay of a decision on the Port Hedland
outer harbor iron-ore expansion for at least 12 months reflects
concern about the future demand for Australia’s key export,
Deloitte said. The price of iron ore, which made up more than 20
percent of Australian exports last year, dropped as much as 37
percent last quarter before recovering in recent months.  “While the quantum of projects in planning has moderated a
little over the past year, some of those on the drawing board
may be further from the green light now than they were three or
six months ago, given the downturn in global commodity prices
and concerns over  China ’s development path in the short term,”
Deloitte said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  