-- Dodgers Pay $25.7 Million to Negotiate With Korean Pitcher Ryu
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2012-11-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/mlb-s-dodgers-get-negotiating-rights-to-korean-left-hander-ryu.html
The Los Angeles Dodgers’ bid for
negotiating rights to pitcher Ryu Hyun-Jin was accepted by
Hanwha Eagles of the Korea Baseball Organization,  Major League
Baseball  said.  The South Korean team accepted the Dodgers’ $25.7 million
bid for the rights to the left-handed ace of their staff,
according to a Korean-language statement posted on the Eagles’
website.  “I’ve taken a step toward a dream come true,” Ryu said in
a statement on the website. “I’ll prepare thoroughly so I can
give hopes to Korean fans and youngsters who want to become
baseball players.”  The Dodgers have 30 consecutive days to sign Ryu to a
contract. If they fail to reach a deal, Ryu remains with the
Eagles and can’t be posted again for one year, and the payment
is refunded to the Dodgers.  “We have watched Ryu pitch for a long time, and he is
another option to consider as we look to improve our team in
2013 and beyond,” Dodgers General Manager Ned Colletti said,
according to MLB.com.  Ryu, 25, was 98-52 with a 2.80 career earned-run average
during seven seasons in  South Korea . He pitched for his country
on teams that won a gold medal at the Beijing Olympics in 2008
and reached the championship game of the 2009 World Baseball
Classic.  Japanese players Yu Darvish,  Ichiro Suzuki  and Daisuke Matsuzaka joined Major League teams under the posting system.
The  Texas Rangers  paid a record $51.7 million to the Hokkaido
Nippon Ham Fighters for the right to talk to Darvish, who signed
a six-year contract guaranteeing him $56 million, the  Associated
Press  reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net 
Sungwoo Park in Korea at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  