-- Bank Indonesia May Raise Deposit Facility Rate, Sarwono Says
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-11-12T06:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/bank-indonesia-may-increase-deposit-facility-rate-sarwono-says.html
Bank Indonesia  may gradually raise
the rate it pays lenders on overnight deposits while keeping the
benchmark unchanged, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said,
signaling the need to boost short-term borrowing costs as the
rupiah declines.  “There’s a possibility that the Fasbi rate will be
gradually increased,” Sarwono said in a Nov. 9 interview at the
central bank in Jakarta, referring to the deposit facility rate.
“There’s no pressure to change” the main reference rate in the
next three to six months, because it is still “consistent”
with the inflation target, he said.  Indonesia  has kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at
a record-low 5.75 percent for nine meetings, refraining from
joining neighbors from  Thailand  to the  Philippines  in extending
monetary easing as growth exceeding 6 percent reduces the need
for stimulus. At the same time, rising imports have spurred a
current-account deficit and weakened the rupiah, prompting the
central bank to intervene to limit  exchange-rate  fluctuations.  The central bank needs to look more closely at the Fasbi
rate because exporters may not want to sell their dollars to
finance their domestic business when they can borrow cheaply on
the rupiah market, Sarwono said. His biggest concern is the day-
to-day volatility of the currency that may hurt investor
confidence, rather than  growth  or inflation, he said.  Rupiah Falls  The rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 9,635 per dollar as of 1:48
p.m. in Jakarta, prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg
show. The currency lost 0.1 percent last week.  “We don’t have to overreact in our policy implementation
but managing day-to-day liquidity is important,” Sarwono said.
“We don’t want to choke economic activity because this is only
a short-term problem, not a medium- and longer-term problem.”  Bank Indonesia raised the deposit facility rate in August
to 4 percent from 3.75 percent, even as it has left the key
 reference rate  unchanged since a cut in February.  The Fasbi rate is “in many ways more important” than the
 reference rate  because it represents the floor for interbank
borrowing costs, Jens Lauschke and Eugene Leow, analysts at DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore , said in an August  report .
Lenders have no incentive to loan to other banks at levels below
what they can earn at Bank Indonesia, so Fasbi rate changes can
have “significant impact” on interbank rates and the rest of
the yield curve, they said.  Monetary ‘Looseness’  Economists from Bank of America Corp. and HSBC Holdings Plc
are among those predicting the central bank will raise the
deposit facility rate by 75 basis points in coming months. The
rate will reach 4.75 percent by the middle of 2013, Chua Hak Bin,
an economist at Bank of America, said in a Nov. 8 report.  “Given the ongoing looseness of monetary settings and the
robustness of domestic indicators, we think the central bank
still needs to work at keeping domestic demand - and hence
import pressures - contained,” Lim Su Sian, an economist at
HSBC, who sees scope for three 25 basis-point increases in the
Fasbi rate, said in a Nov. 8 research note.  Indonesia’s currency has fallen about 6 percent against the
dollar this year, the biggest decline among the 11 most-traded
Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Currency Outlook  The currency probably won’t weaken further and will start
appreciating as the current-account shortfall narrows and the
capital-account surplus improves, Sarwono said. The decline this
year was because of the current-account deficit and the central
bank didn’t try to prevent the drop, he said.  “We don’t use a depreciation policy to support exports so
we just let the fundamentals of the economy dictate the movement
of the exchange rate,” he said. The current exchange rate of
about 9,600 rupiah a dollar is “still consistent with the
fundamentals and it will move back to an appreciation trend”
when uncertainty over the global economy abates, he said.  The current-account shortfall in the third quarter narrowed
to 2.4 percent of GDP, or $5.34 billion, from 3.5 percent in the
second quarter, the central bank  said  last week, citing a
recovery in the  trade balance  as consumption goods imports ease.
The balance of payments last quarter was a surplus of $834
million, and that may increase as the capital account is boosted
by foreign direct investment, it said.  The rupiah’s movement is still in line with market
conditions, and the intensity of the depreciation is easing,
Bank Indonesia said last week. The currency’s one-month implied
volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to price
options, has fallen to 4.80 percent, the lowest level since
September 2008.  ‘Thin’ Market  “The problem is our market is very thin in Indonesia,”
Sarwono said. “There’s a short supply because exporters don’t
want to sell their dollars or commercial banks are keeping their
money in term deposits.”  While the central bank steps into the market to provide
enough liquidity from time to time, the intervention may not be
as big as before and isn’t intended to change the level of the
exchange rate, he said.  Indonesia is studying measures to counter any excessive
capital inflows due to quantitative easing in developed nations
if needed, including adjusting the reserve requirement and using
available open-market instruments to absorb excess liquidity,
the deputy governor said.  Capital Inflows  “Although Indonesia very much welcomes capital inflows to
finance medium and longer-term economic activity, we remain
vigilant of the impact of short-term capital reversal, so we
have to have ammunition or instruments to reduce the volatility
in the exchange-rate market,” he said.  Elsewhere in  Asia  where currencies have climbed, policy
makers have moved to prevent excess funds in the financial
system from spurring inflation. In July, the Philippine central
bank tightened rules on capital inflows by limiting where
foreign funds can put their money.  Bank Indonesia reduced its 2012 growth target to 6.3
percent from 6.5 percent last week while keeping the forecast
for 2013 at 6.3 percent to 6.7 percent. Inflation remains
manageable and will probably be at the midpoint of the monetary
authority’s target range of 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent at the
end of this year, it said.  This year’s growth forecast was cut because of uncertainty
over the outlook for  China  and  India , with China’s prospects
being affected by political developments, Sarwono said. The
“baseline” scenario for 2013 is an expansion of 6.5 percent in
Indonesia, he said.  Fuel Prices  A planned increase in electricity tariffs and a possible
rise in fuel prices may boost cost pressures next year, Sarwono
said. Even then, inflation in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy
will probably not exceed 5.5 percent, he said.  “The fuel price impact will depend on how much they
increase but as long as we can mitigate the second-round
impact,” the effects will be for a short period, he said.  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service have raised
Indonesia to investment grade, boosting investments in some of
the country’s asset markets. The yield on the government’s 7
percent bonds maturing in May 2022 dropped three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.53 percent today, according to
prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association. That’s the
lowest level since March.  While the faltering global economy has prompted investors
to adopt a “wait-and-see” stance, companies aren’t changing
overall business plans drastically, he said. “We remain
vigilant, we don’t use any drastic policy to alter this
situation,” he said, referring to the central bank’s stance.  Deepening Market  The most urgent task for Indonesia in the medium to longer
term is to deepen its financial market and provide investors
with more avenues to put their money in the country, while
helping fund infrastructure programs, Sarwono said. Should the
government take steps to boost the capital and corporate bond
markets, the central bank will be prepared to ensure liquidity
in those areas, he said.  Currently, the central bank can “stabilize” the
 government bonds  with purchases in the secondary market, he said.
It can perform a similar role with corporate debt if needed in
the future, he said, citing the possibility of a “third-party
repo market” with commercial lenders because Bank Indonesia
can’t buy company bonds directly.  “We know that investors still want to invest their money
but from our side we don’t have papers or instruments to sell to
them because government bonds are very limited,” he said. “The
 budget deficit  is very low, below 3 percent, so there’s no
intention from the government in this year and next to issue
much government bonds, although the investors are there.”  The government is in talks with the  Asian Development Bank 
and the  World Bank  on instruments to finance the country’s
infrastructure projects, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  