-- BBC Chief Quits After TV Report Airs False Sex Abuse Claims
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-11-11T09:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/bbc-chief-quits-after-tv-report-airs-false-sex-abuse-claims.html
British Broadcasting Corp. Director
General George Entwistle quit his post last night, less than two
months after being appointed and fewer than two weeks after a
BBC television report falsely implicated a former senior
politician with sexual abuse of a child.  Entwistle, who served also as editor-in-chief and took over
from former Director General  Mark Thompson  in mid-September,
said “exceptional events” in recent weeks -- two sexual abuse
investigations gone awry -- led to his decision.  Citing unacceptable journalistic standards involved in the
“Newsnight” broadcast, Entwistle said in a statement, “I have
decided that the honourable thing to do is to step down from the
post of director-general.”  On Nov. 2, “Newsnight” aired false claims by an abuse
victim involving an ex-Conservative Party politician at child-
care homes in Wales. Even though the politician, Alistair
McAlpine, wasn’t named on “Newsnight,” he was wrongly
identified on the Internet as the alleged abuser, the BBC said.  That followed on the heels of a controversy over why the
broadcaster canceled a report last year involving child sex
abuse allegations against Jimmy Savile, a former host at the
 BBC .  One abuse victim, Steve Messham, has apologized to
McAlpine, Tory treasurer during  Margaret Thatcher ’s leadership,
saying McAlpine didn’t assault him.  The BBC is conducting two investigations, one addressing
the culture and practices of the BBC when Savile worked there
and one on why the episode of “Newsnight” discussing Savile
was canceled.  ‘Immediate Pause’  The BBC’s internal inquiries also will look into the role
of executives such as Thompson, who is scheduled to start a new
job as the  New York Times Co. (NYT) ’s chief executive officer
tomorrow.  Robert Christie , a spokesman for the  New York  Times Co.,
said yesterday Thompson will start the job as planned. He
declined to comment further.  BBC Trust Chairman  Chris Patten , commenting on Entwistle’s
resignation, said it’s “undoubtedly one of the saddest days of
my public life.”  The BBC has ordered an “immediate pause” in “Newsnight”
investigations, and a suspension of all co-productions with the
Bureau of Investigative Journalism, which worked on the
“Newsnight” broadcast.  Entwistle, 50, joined the BBC in 1989 as a broadcast
journalism trainee.  London police are probing claims that Savile, who died last
year at the age of 84, may have abused more than 300 people as
far back as 1959. He started at the BBC in 1964 and worked there
for more than three decades. He was the host of “Top of the
Pops” and “Jim’ll Fix It.”  London ’s Metropolitan Police said in a statement today they
arrested a man in his seventies in Cambridgeshire,  England  this
morning on suspicion of sexual offenses. He is the third person
to be arrested under “Operation Yewtree,” the investigation
into alleged sexual abuses by Savile and others. The police did
not name the man.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  