-- BBC Faces Overhaul as False Report Leads to Chief’s Exit
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n ,   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-11-12T00:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/bbc-needs-radical-overhaul-as-false-tv-report-sees-chief-quit.html
The British Broadcasting Corp., the
90-year-old media organization that runs U.K.’s most-watched TV
channels, was urged by the head of its supervisory body to
embark on a “radical overhaul” after errors surrounding a
sexual-abuse investigation forced its director general to quit.  George Entwistle, 50, resigned Nov. 10 after a  BBC  program
erroneously implied that a senior politician had molested a
young boy. That followed revelations last month that management
had failed to stop an alleged pedophile ring operating out of
BBC studios and decades of abuse by entertainer Jimmy Savile.  The scandal intensifies the scrutiny of the license-fee-
funded broadcaster, already facing criticism from private and
publicly traded competitors. An overhaul may mean changes to how
the BBC’s 22,000 employees are organized and how its journalists
are overseen as the broadcaster seeks to justify the annual 3.61
billion pounds ($5.7 billion) it receives from U.K. households.  The BBC needs a “thorough, radical, structural overhaul”
of its management, said  Chris Patten , who is chairman of the
panel that oversees the corporation, on the BBC’s “Andrew Marr” program yesterday. If the corporation loses public trust,
“it’s over,” he said.  Entwistle’s resignation is the latest in a scandal-ridden
couple of years for the U.K. press.  London  police, in addition
to investigating claims that Savile may have used his position
as a TV host and volunteer to sexually abuse more than 300
people as far back as 1959, are still looking into claims that
reporters at News Corp., owner of the most-read U.K. newspapers,
hacked into mobile phones and bribed police for stories.  ‘Newsnight’ Future  Patten said he is considering the creation of a more
powerful position as head of news at the BBC, saying the future
director general will need “strong support” in that area. The
BBC needed to devolve decision-making, Patten said, adding that
he had once joked that “there were more senior leaders in the
BBC than there were in the Chinese Communist party.”  On Nov. 2, “Newsnight” aired false claims by an abuse
victim involving an ex-Conservative Party politician at child-
care homes in Wales. Even though the politician, Alistair McAlpine, wasn’t named on “Newsnight,” he was identified on
the Internet as the alleged abuser, the BBC said.  One abuse victim, Steve Messham, has apologized to
McAlpine, Tory treasurer during  Margaret Thatcher ’s leadership,
saying McAlpine didn’t assault him.  Patten said he would discuss the future of “Newsnight”
with acting Director-General Tim Davie, while a permanent
replacement for Entwistle will be appointed within weeks.  Unacceptable Standards  U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May said on the “Andrew Marr”
program that Entwistle’s resignation was the “right decision,”
and added that the BBC needs to work hard to re-establish public
trust in its journalism.  Entwistle, who served also as editor-in-chief and took over
from former Director General  Mark Thompson  less than two months
ago, cited unacceptable journalistic standards involved in the
“Newsnight” broadcast in his resignation statement. Entwistle
first joined the BBC in 1989 as a broadcast journalism trainee.  Patten played down suggestions he may resign as well,
saying those calls are coming come from  Rupert Murdoch ’s News
Corp. newspapers. “I am not going to take my marching orders
from Rupert Murdoch’s papers,” he told  Sky News .  “I now have to make sure that, in the interests of the
license-fee payer and the audience, that the BBC has a grip,
that we get ourselves back onto the road,” Patten told the
BBC’s “Andrew Marr Show.” “I think that my job is to make
sure that we learn the lessons of those inquiries and that we
restore confidence and trust in the BBC.”  Swift Action  Prime Minister  David Cameron  doesn’t believe the BBC is
facing an “existential crisis,” a government official said.
The official, who declined to be named in line with U.K.
government policy, said Cameron had emphasized that Patten needs
to take charge of the situation and that the government expects
him to show a grip of what needs to be done.  “George Enwistle was right to resign because he was editor
in chief,” Conservative lawmaker  John Whittingdale , who chairs
Parliament’s media oversight committee, told the BBC’s “The
World This Weekend” radio program. “The job of the trust is to
oversee the BBC. I don’t think there is a case for Lord Patten
to go but certainly Lord Patten has to act very swiftly.”  BBC, founded in 1922, runs operations that span from
international news gathering to entertainment, sports and
educational shows. The broadcaster is affectionately nicknamed
“Auntie” in the U.K. for its familiarity to generations of
viewers. In the year through March, BBC got more than 70 percent
of its 5.09 billion-pound income from license fees paid by U.K.
households with TVs.  Savile Scandal  Rivals have criticized BBC for years, with media companies
including  News Corp. (NWSA)  saying that it lacks accountability and
suggesting that it should compete less with private companies.  The BBC is conducting two investigations, one addressing
the culture and practices of the BBC when Savile worked there
and one on why the episode of “Newsnight” discussing Savile
was canceled. The BBC’s internal inquiries also will look into
the role of executives such as Thompson.  Entwistle told a U.K. parliamentary committee last month
that he failed to ask any questions after being warned Savile
was the subject of the “Newsnight” probe that could interfere
with tribute programs following the star’s death, saying he
didn’t think it would be appropriate to interfere.  Thompson, who led the BBC for eight years until September,
has said he wasn’t aware of the abuse allegations and didn’t
participate in stopping “Newsnight” from airing its Savile
segment.  Third Arrest  Thompson is due to start his new position as chief
executive officer of the  New York  Times on Monday.  Robert Christie , a spokesman for the  New York Times Co. (NYT) , said Thompson
will start the job as planned. He declined to comment further.  Savile started at the BBC in 1964 and worked there for more
than three decades. He was the host of “Top of the Pops” and
“Jim’ll Fix It.”  London’s Metropolitan Police said yesterday they arrested a
man in his seventies in Cambridgeshire,  England , on suspicion of
sexual offenses. He is the third person to be arrested under
“Operation Yewtree,” the investigation into alleged sexual
abuses by Savile and others. The police didn’t name the man.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  