-- Best Buy Said to Hire McCollam as CFO
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-11-12T21:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/best-buy-said-to-hire-mccollam-as-cfo.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY)  hired former Williams-
Sonoma Inc. Chief Financial Officer Sharon McCollam as CFO as
the world’s largest consumer-electronics retailer seeks to
reduce its store count and strengthen its online operations.  McCollam, 50, starts Dec. 10 and also will serve as chief
administrative officer, Best Buy said today in a statement. She
retired from Williams-Sonoma in March. Jim Muehlbauer, Best
Buy’s current finance chief, said last month that he would step
down from the role.  Chief Executive Officer Hubert Joly is hiring McCollam as
he works to boost sales while reducing store space amid
intensifying online competition. Joly, who took charge in
September as the company resisted buyout overtures from founder
Richard Schulze, is meeting with analysts tomorrow in  New York 
to discuss his strategy to revive the retailer.  “The board does not appear to be standing still in terms
of driving the business forward,” Greg Melich, an analyst at
International Strategy & Investment Group in New York, said
today in a note. He rates Best Buy hold.  Best Buy rose 3.6 percent to $15.85 at the close in New
York. The shares have fallen 32 percent this year.  Fragmented Market  McCollam said she plans to bring the financial, operational
and multichannel skills she developed at Williams-Sonoma to
improve Best Buy’s profitability. The retailer controls 16
percent of U.S. consumer electronic sales in a “very highly
fragmented market,” with about half of the market served by
competitors with less than 4 percent of sales, she said.  “Realistically we are the only place you can go at retail
or online to buy virtually any consumer-electronics product or
service,” McCollam said in a telephone interview today from
Richfield,  Minnesota , where Best Buy is based. “We are getting
the opportunity by these customers coming into our stores to
serve them.”  While at Williams-Sonoma, McCollam helped reduce the San
Francisco-based home-goods retailer’s square footage 7 percent
from 2008 to 2011 while boosting sales 11 percent, Melich said.  Williams-Sonoma started several e-commerce websites while
McCollam was CFO and chief operating officer and improved its
supply chain, said  Anthony Chukumba , a BB&T Capital Markets
analyst in New York. He speculated in June that McCollam was a
leading contender to become Best Buy’s CEO.  ‘Major Step’  “Sharon McCollam’s hiring is a major step in the right
direction for Best Buy, as we cannot envision anyone better
suited for the challenges the company faces,” Chukumba wrote
today in a note. He rates the shares hold. “She is experienced
in shrinking a retail store base and developing a higher-margin
e-commerce distribution channel -- two of Best Buy’s most
pressing needs.”  Best Buy posted a $1.2 billion net loss in its latest
fiscal year and said Oct. 25 that fiscal third-quarter profit
will probably be “significantly” below last year’s results as
sales at established stores decline.  Schulze, who resigned as chairman in June, offered to take
the company private at $24 to $26 a share two months later.
Schulze, 71, later reached an agreement with the company on
conducting due diligence on a possible deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  