-- BlackRock Sticks With Pimco in Tusk Bond Fan Club: Poland Credit
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-11-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/blackrock-sticks-with-pimco-in-tusk-bond-fan-club-poland-credit.html
The rally that sent  Poland ’s bond
yields to record lows has further to run as the country’s
economy and relatively lower debt make it a favorite among
emerging markets for the world’s biggest investors.  Andrew Bosomworth , managing director at Pacific Investment
Management Co., which oversees the globe’s biggest bond fund,
called Poland “the blue-chip emerging market.” Polish bonds
“look attractive in the current environment,” Beata Harasim, a
money manager at BlackRock Inc., the largest fund company.  Lured by interest rate and budget deficit cuts, investors
have been buying Polish debt and held a record 35 percent of
zloty bonds on Sept. 30, Finance Ministry data show. The yield
on the government’s 10-year zloty bonds tumbled 169 basis points
this year to a low of 4.20 percent on Nov. 9, on track for the
biggest rally in a decade, while euro notes have been narrowing
the premium gap with Germany.  “There is some on-going scope here for Polish bonds to
provide good returns,” Bosomworth said in an interview in
London on Nov. 8. “In so long as Poland keeps on doing what it
has been doing, then even the local currency bonds could deliver
respectable returns.”  Asian Buyer  Kokusai Global Sovereign Open (1131197C) , Asia’s biggest fixed-income
fund, last month bought Polish government bonds for the first
time because of lower debt than in the euro region. Public debt
amounted to 56.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2011,
compared with an 87.3 percent-average for the 17-nation euro
area, based on figures from Eurostat.  The yield on Poland’s euro-denominated notes due in 2020
fell 293 basis points this year, reducing the premium over
similar German bunds to 130 basis points, compared with a 372
point gap on Dec. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government of Prime Minister Donald Tusk will narrow
the  budget deficit  to 3.1 percent of GDP next year after it
raised the retirement age, froze public sector wages and cut
some spending, the European Commission said on Nov. 7. The gap
stood at 7.9 percent in 2010.  The economy will slow to 1.8 percent next year from 2.4
percent in 2012 as the euro area, Poland’s biggest trading
partner, contracts, according to EU’s executive.  “Poland’s ability to balance growth and fiscal discipline
is a very strong point supporting the local bond market,”
Harasim said in a phone interview from  London  on Nov. 8. She
helps oversee the equivalent of $34 billion in European fixed-
income assets for New York-based BlackRock.  ‘Easing Cycle’  Policy makers are taking steps to prop up the economy. The
central bank cut interest rates on Nov. 7 for the first time
since 2009 in what Governor Marek Belka called the start of an
“easing cycle” to spur growth. The government plans to spend
about 300 billion zloty ($92 billion) on investments by 2020
while pledging to keep fiscal goals intact.  Slowing  economic growth  and the prospect for more rate
reductions have weakened the zloty by 2.1 percent in the past
month, the biggest decline among 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the Indian rupee. A weaker zloty diminishes
returns for any foreign buyers of bonds who don’t protect
themselves against currency swings.  Zloty bonds carry “greater risks” than Poland’s foreign
currency-denominated debt because the currency may “come under
pressure” in “risk-off environments,” said Bosomworth.  ‘Fairly Valued’  The currency “looks very close to being fairly valued”
and “in the short-term it will be driven by weaker growth
prospects not only in Poland but in Europe,” according to
Harasim. Poland sells 54 percent of its exports to the euro
area, including 25 percent to  Germany , government data show.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Poland’s
government dollar bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 122 on Nov. 9, indexes
compiled by JPMorgan Chase and Co. show.  The additional yield on Polish 10-year zloty bonds over
bunds narrowed 10 basis points to 283 on Nov. 9, the lowest
since July 2011. The zloty gained 0.3 percent to 4.1570 against
the euro on Nov. 9, paring last week’s loss to 1.1 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost to insure Polish state debt against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps rose four basis points
to 90, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The swaps cost 94 basis
points less than the average for countries in eastern  Europe ,
the Middle East and  Africa  included in Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA
Index, compared with an average 78 basis-point difference in the
first half of 2012. Default swaps decline as the perception of
credit worthiness improves.  ‘Risk-On’ World  The yield on Poland’s 2020 euro bonds fell to a record low
of 2.32 percent on Nov. 9, compared with 1.02 percent yield on
eight-year German bunds, prices compiled by Bloomberg show.  Polish bonds are appealing as the country’s “fundamentals
are still supportive, with the risk of recession being very
low,” Harasim said. The economy of the 27-nation EU is expected
to contract 0.3 percent in 2012 before expanding 0.4 percent
next year, according to European Commission forecasts last week.  “We are in a world now where things are now either risk-on
or risk-off,” Bosomworth said. “If Europe moves forward, and I
think they are doing that -- it’s two steps forward, one step
back, but I think the momentum is forward -- then that’s going
to be beneficial for  emerging markets .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  