-- Bulls Cut Wagers as Prices Rally Most in Two Months: Commodities
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-11-12T20:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/bulls-cut-wagers-as-prices-rally-most-in-two-months-commodities.html
Speculators cut bullish commodity
wagers by the most in five months as prices had their biggest
gain in eight weeks on mounting speculation that stimulus
measures will bolster economic growth.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators lowered combined
net-long  positions  across 18 U.S. futures and options by 11
percent to 931,048 contracts in the week ended Nov. 6, the
biggest cut since June 5, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. Holdings have dropped for five weeks, the longest
slump since April. Gold wagers fell to the lowest since August
before prices gained the most since January.  U.S. consumer  confidence  climbed to a five-year high in
November, and exports reached a record in September, separate
reports showed last week. President  Barack Obama  won his bid for
a second term on Nov. 6, defeating Republican challenger  Mitt
Romney , who had criticized Federal Reserve policies. The central
bank may extend its program of debt buying through 2014 because
the economy is still burdened by 7.9 percent unemployment,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The tailwind for commodities from policy makers to boost
economies will help demand rise,” said Adam De Chiara, who
helps manage $4 billion of assets at CoreCommodity Management
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “I don’t see the easing stopping
anytime soon as the slowdown concerns remain.”  GSCI Rally  The  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index of commodities climbed 1.7
percent last week, the biggest gain since the week to Sept. 14.
The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities fell 2.2 percent,
and the dollar rose 0.5 percent against a basket of six major
currencies. Treasuries returned 0.8 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows. The S&P GSCI fell 0.3 percent to 634.49 at
3:01 p.m. in New York.  The U.S.  trade deficit  shrank to $41.5 billion, the
smallest since December 2010 and lower than any estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists, the Commerce Department said
Nov. 8. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
consumer sentiment index rose to 84.9, the highest since July
2007, data showed Nov. 9. Consumer spending accounts for about
70 percent of the  U.S. economy .  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  told
journalists in  Frankfurt  on Nov. 8 that the bank stands ready to
activate its bond-purchase program to “avoid extreme
scenarios” for economies. The Fed’s open-ended program to buy
$40 billion of bonds per month will last through the first half
of 2014, and mortgage-debt purchases may reach $700 billion,
according to  Michael Feroli , the chief U.S. economist at
JPMorgan in New York.  Fiscal Cliff  Stimulus programs may not be enough to combat an economic
slowdown because the U.S. faces a so-called fiscal cliff, said
Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion of assets
at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,  Alabama .  The U.S. risks entering a recession that will hurt economic
growth worldwide should Congress allow the more than $600
billion of tax increases and spending cuts to take effect next
year,  Fitch Ratings  said Nov. 8. Standard & Poor’s stripped the
U.S. of its AAA credit rating on Aug. 5, 2011, after months of
political wrangling over the debt ceiling.  “The issue of a global slowdown and worries about the
fiscal cliff will be a drag, and that makes me cautious,”
Hellwig said. “The environment is less than attractive, and we
have not added to our position in commodities for some time and
have a minimal exposure.”  Goldman Outlook  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is “increasingly cautious” about
copper in the short term because of the fiscal cliff. Refined
supplies have been in surplus for the past several weeks,  Max Layton , one of the bank’s analysts in  London , said in a report
Nov. 8. Net-long positions in copper fell 70 percent to 2,077
contracts, the lowest since Sept. 4, the CFTC data showed.  Money managers added a net $235 million to commodity funds
in the week ended Nov. 7, with gold and precious metals
accounting for $501 million, according to  Cameron Brandt , the
director of research at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR
Global, which tracks money flows.  China ’s industrial  production  rose 9.6 percent in October
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said Nov.
9, exceeding analyst estimates. The country is the world’s
biggest consumer of copper, soybeans and pork. The U.S. is the
top user of corn and crude oil.  Gold Wagers  Investors trimmed gold  wagers  by 13 percent to 130,128
contracts, the lowest since Aug. 21. Prices jumped 3.3 percent
last week, and are up 10 percent in 2012, heading for a 12th
straight annual gain.  Twenty-five of 33 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect
gold prices to rise this week, and three were bearish. A further
five were neutral, making the proportion of bulls the highest
since Aug. 24. Investors boosted assets in gold-backed exchange-
traded products to an all-time high of 2,596.1 metric tons on
Nov. 8, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators trimmed
bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 12 percent to
532,601 contracts. Bets on a hog rally tumbled 23 percent to
23,979 contracts, the biggest drop since Aug. 28. Prices jumped
3.9 percent last week, reaching the highest in more than three
months on Nov. 9. The U.S. Meat Export Federation said Nov. 6
that the value of shipments may top $11.5 billion this year,
exceeding the 2011 record.  “While fundamentals will help the agriculture pack, the
continuous money-printing policy that central banks have adopted
will support most commodities,” said Jeffrey Sica, the
Morristown, New Jersey-based president of SICA Wealth
Management, who helps oversee more than $1 billion of assets.
“The overall long-term trend remains bullish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  