-- Cathay Pacific Sees Little Christmas Cheer for Air Cargo
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-11-12T10:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/cathay-pacific-sees-little-christmas-cheer-in-cargo-shipments.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , the
largest carrier of international air cargo, said it has seen
only a small increase in freight ahead of the  Christmas shopping
season , prolonging an 18-month downturn in industry volumes.  The rise is “nothing like the really strong peak we might
have seen,” Chief Executive Officer John Slosar said Nov. 9 in
 Kuala Lumpur , where he was attending an airline group meeting.
Still, there is a “little bit of a pickup.”  A slow quarter will add to pressure on Asian carriers,
which have already cut cargo flights, scrapped freighters and
parked planes this year because of weak demand and competition
from Middle East airlines. It also suggests that U.S. and
European retailers are placing smaller orders because of
concerns about the outlook for the Christmas shopping season.  The cargo slump “tells you just how pessimistic people are
about the economic outlook overall,” said  Andrew Herdman , the
head of the Association of Asia-Pacific Airlines. “There’s no
growth expectations.”  The group’s 15 member-airlines suffered a 3.2 percent drop
in cargo volumes in the first nine months of the year, according
to data on its website. The proportion of cargo capacity filled
with freight dropped 0.5 percentage point in the period to 66.2
percent.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  said Nov. 3 that it will park one
of its 13 Boeing Co. 747 freighters for more than a year
starting in January after losses at its cargo unit tripled in
the quarter through September.  Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560) , South
Korea’s second-biggest carrier, may consider returning its
leased freighter if there’s no improvement in volumes, CEO Yoon Young Doo said at the Kuala Lumpur meeting.  ‘Challenging Market’  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  has cut some freighter
flights, without yet parking any cargo planes, said its CEO
Ahmad Jauhari Yahya.  “The market is challenging,” he said. “We just have to
manage our capacity correctly.”  Cathay Pacific, which gets about a quarter of sales from
cargo, has scrapped one freighter and parked two others this
year. The Hong Kong-based carrier may consider further measures
because of the slowdown, Slosar said. It filled 63 percent of
 cargo space  in September, down from 70 percent two years earlier,
according to its latest traffic update.  ‘Reduce Capacity’  “It’s a problem,” Slosar said. “If the cargo isn’t there,
the cargo isn’t there -- the only thing to do is reduce
capacity.”  The  airline  rose 1.5 percent to HK$13.86 in Hong Kong
trading today. It’s climbed 4.1 percent this year, trailing a 16
percent gain for the  Hang Seng Index . The Bloomberg Asia Pacific
Airlines Index, which tracks 17 airline stocks, has fallen 5.8
percent. Cathay Pacific separately said today that it plans to
begin a weekly freighter service to Colombo, Sri Lanka on Dec. 2.  Globally, Europe has led a slowdown in cargo volume as
recessions and cuts in  government spending  damp  consumer
confidence . Euro-area retail sales decreased a more-than-
expected 0.2 percent in September from August. Consumers in the
region plan to cut spending on year-end holidays by 0.8 percent
to an average of 591 euros, according to a study by Deloitte LLP.  Global air-cargo traffic was little changed from a year
earlier in September, according to the  International Air
Transport Association . Monthly demand has risen more than 1
percent only once since April 2011, excluding distortions caused
by China’s lunar new year holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  