-- Charlie Beljan Overcomes Panic Attack to Get First PGA Tour Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/charlie-beljan-gets-first-pga-tour-victory-after-hospital-stay.html
Charlie Beljan captured his first
career U.S. PGA Tour golf title after overcoming a second-round
panic attack that sent him to the hospital at the Children’s
Miracle Network Hospitals Classic.  Beljan shot a 3-under par 69 during yesterday’s final round
at Walt Disney World Resort in Lake Buena Vista,  Florida , and
had a four-round total of 16-under 272. He finished two shots
ahead of Matt Every and  Robert Garrigus , earning $846,000 and an
automatic spot on the PGA Tour for the next two years.  Beljan, 28, had been taken to the hospital in an ambulance
after his second-round 64 three days ago, having hyperventilated
on the golf course after experiencing tightness in his chest and
an elevated heartbeat. Beljan said he feared for his life and
wasn’t sure if he’d be able to return to the tournament after
spending the night in the hospital and undergoing tests that
included blood work, X-rays and scans of his heart and lungs.  “Friday was frightening,” Beljan said at a news
conference. “But I know that physically I’m OK. I’m going to go
and try to figure out a few things out when I get home. Now I’ve
got some time off and no stress.”  Beljan also passed out on a flight while returning home
from a  PGA Tour  event in Reno,  Nevada , this year and said
doctors told him his episode this week was an anxiety or panic
attack that “spun out of control.” He said he’s had six or
seven episodes since passing out on the airplane, an incident
that prompted an emergency landing.  Beljan, a rookie on the PGA Tour this season, said the
latest attack may have been prompted by factors including the
stress of being in contention at the culmination of a year that
saw him have hand surgery, get married and have his first child.  “Physically everything is wonderful,” Beljan said before
the final round. “It’s that little space between those ears
that I got to work on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  