-- Man. City Wins to Move Second in Premier League as Chelsea Ties
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-11-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/chelsea-liverpool-tie-1-1-in-premier-league-man-city-wins.html
Manchester City  beat Tottenham 2-1
to go second in soccer’s Premier League as Chelsea was held to a
1-1 tie by Liverpool. Chelsea’s John Terry scored, then left the
field injured on his return from a ban for racial abuse.  Bosnia striker Edin Dzeko got the winning goal in the 88th
minute for City, the defending league champion, as it rallied
from a halftime deficit at its Etihad Stadium yesterday.  “It was a huge win because it was a difficult moment,”
City manager  Roberto Mancini  told reporters. “Tottenham I
didn’t feel had chances apart from a couple of set-pieces, we
need to improve there. But after they scored first I thought we
played fantastic.”  Chelsea was denied a win as  Luis Suarez  scored for visiting
Liverpool in the second half at Stamford Bridge. Terry headed
the Blues into a 20th-minute lead before injuring his knee later
in the first half. Terry received a four-game ban in September
from an independent panel appointed by England’s Football
Association for racially abusing Queens Park Rangers defender
 Anton Ferdinand  in a game last season.  Manchester United tops the standings with 27 points, City
has 25 and Chelsea 24. Everton and West Bromwich Albion both
have 20 points. West Ham moved into sixth spot, on 18 points,
with a 1-0 victory at Newcastle.  City maintains the only remaining unbeaten record in the
Premier League this season after turning the match around after
halftime.  Spurs led after 21 minutes when Steven Caulker headed into
the net from a free kick by  Tom Huddlestone .  Penalty Appeals  City twice appealed for penalties during the opening half,
first when the ball hit William Gallas’s arm, then after a clash
between Huddlestone and  Pablo Zabaleta .  The home team pushed forward after the interval and  Sergio Aguero  profited from a deflection to collect the ball then place
a low shot into the far corner of the net after 65 minutes.  Tottenham’s Wales winger Gareth Bale had a shot saved by
 Joe Hart  soon after, but it was City that continued to provide
the greater attacking threat.  The game was decided with two minutes of normal time
remaining as substitute Dzeko scored his seventh goal of the
season. Six of those have come in matches in which he didn’t
start. Dzeko fired past  Brad Friedel  after he collected a
chipped pass from  David Silva .  At Stamford Bridge, Terry took advantage of loose marking
at a corner to head past Brad Jones.  His return lasted only 38 minutes, with the former England
captain suffering a knee injury in an accidental clash with
Suarez. He was carried off on a stretcher.  Chelsea Pressure  Liverpool had dominated possession in the first half
without creating many chances. It was Chelsea that appeared more
likely to score again, with Jones forced to save from Fernando Torres midway through the half. Eden Hazard hit a follow-up shot
wide.  Blues midfielder Juan Mata fired just over the bar in
first-half injury time.  Jones stopped a close-range header from Torres early in the
second half as Chelsea applied pressure on the visitors.  Liverpool was, though, able to score from a corner to earn
a point. Jamie Carragher flicked the ball across the penalty
area and Suarez headed into the net from three yards.  Suarez has scored in three straight league games and has 11
goals this season.  “I thought we did push on and had the chances to score the
second goal,” Chelsea manager Roberto di Matteo told  Sky
Sports . “We’ll have to have a scan on  John Terry  on Monday to
fully understand the extent of the injury.”  West Ham Victory  West Ham got its second away win of the season, with a goal
from former Newcastle midfielder Kevin Nolan securing the three
points at St. James’s Park.  Two days ago, Manchester United recovered from a two-goal
deficit to win 3-2 at Aston Villa, Arsenal was held to a 3-3 tie
by Fulham, Everton defeated Sunderland 2-1, and West Bromwich
Albion won 2-1 at Wigan.  Southampton climbed from last spot with a 1-1 draw against
Swansea, replaced by Queens Park Rangers after a 1-0 loss at
Stoke. The match between Reading and Norwich was scoreless.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 