-- China Consumers to Dominate in 10 Years, Maersk CEO Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-12T08:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/china-consumers-to-dominate-in-10-years-maersk-ceo-says.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , owner of
the world’s largest container shipping line, is betting that
China will evolve into a consumer economy from a nation driven
by export growth within a decade.  “We’re investing in our China set-up as we’re building up
a large organization there so we can be ready to help customers
who want to export to China,” Chief Executive Officer Nils Smedegaard Andersen, 54, said in a Nov. 9 phone interview from
Maersk’s Copenhagen headquarters.  The world’s second-largest economy is targeting more
sustainable growth as it prepares for a shift in leadership,
with Vice President  Xi Jinping  set to replace President  Hu Jintao  as head of China’s Communist Party. Prime Minister  Wen Jiabao  has already cut China’s economic growth target as the
government encourages consumer demand and weans the nation off
its reliance on exports.  “It will be very, very positive for us -- and probably
also for the rest of the world -- if China succeeds in this
development,” said Andersen. “We can already register the
trend as we’re seeing rising Chinese imports. So it’s already
happening.”  For now, Maersk’s container line, which ships about 15
percent of the world’s sea-born consumer trade, is still sending
empty containers to China as exports continue to outpace
imports.  Export Growth  The value of China’s  exports  rose 11.6 percent from a year
earlier to $176 billion, while the value of  imports  gained just
2.4 percent to $144 billion, according to trade statistics
released Nov. 10 by the Beijing-based Customs General
Administration.  Still,  China ’s foreign trade expanded at a slower pace than
last year in the first 10 months of the year, according to the
Nov. 10 report, putting at risk the government’s 2012 target of
10 percent growth. Exports through October rose 7.8 percent
while imports gained 4.6 percent, leaving a trade surplus of
$180.2 billion.  “In about 10 years I think we may reach a level where
there’s more of a balance between container goods going into
China and leaving China,” Andersen said.  While the increase in China’s gross domestic product slowed
to 7.4 percent in the July-September period from a year earlier,
the weakest in three years, gauges of manufacturing and retail
sales have pointed to a recovery. China’s economic expansion
will probably accelerate to 7.7 percent this quarter and to 7.9
percent in the three months through March 2013, based on the
median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg Oct. 18-22.  ‘Good Growth’  “China will probably be able to uphold a good growth
level” next year, Andersen said. “Most people expect 8 percent
growth or slightly less. The country could grow more than 8
percent in the short term.”  Maersk  rose as much as  1.3 percent in Copenhagen trading.
The shares advanced 1.1 percent to 40,880 kroner at 9:09 a.m.
local time, giving the company,  Denmark ’s biggest by revenues, a
market value of 175 billion kroner ($29.8 billion).  Maersk’s  container unit ,  Maersk Line , reported a third-
quarter net profit of 2.87 billion kroner on Nov. 9, compared
with a year-earlier loss of 1.53 billion kroner. The division,
which transported the equivalent of 2.1 million 40-foot
containers in the three-month period, was helped by freight
rates that were 5.7 percent higher than a year earlier.  Maersk Line lowered its 2012 estimate for global container
demand to 3 percent from 4 percent in August as European
consumption slumps. The unit kept a forecast for “modest”
profit for the year.  The parent company, which also owns a port terminal
operator and an oil unit, employs 108,000 people world-wide,
12,500 of which are based in China and  Hong Kong .  So long as China’s exports outpace imports, the country’s
growth rate will have a limited impact on Maersk’s container
earnings, Andersen said.  “If  China’s economy  is booming ahead while European
consumers don’t want to consume, it wouldn’t result in any more
sea transportation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  