-- China Billionaire Liang Sees Bigger Role for Companies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-12T02:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/china-billionaire-liang-seeks-bigger-role-for-private-companies.html
Chinese billionaire Liang Wengen,
who heads the nation’s biggest machinery maker, called on the
country’s new leadership to give more space for private
enterprises to grow.  Liang, chairman of  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031)  and founder of
parent company Sany Group Co., spoke at a briefing yesterday in
Beijing as part of the Communist Party congress that opened Nov.
8 to begin a once-a-decade leadership change. Liang is one of 27
delegates from the private sector attending the meeting,
according to the official Xinhua news agency.  In his speech at the opening of the congress President Hu Jintao pledged to “deepen economic structural reform” and to
“enhance the vitality of the state-owned sector” while
encouraging the development of the non-public sector. A February
report by the World Bank and Development Research Center of
 China ’s State Council said the new leadership must overcome
opponents of change, including state-owned companies and banks.  Liang said it wasn’t clear whether state-owned enterprises
were advancing and private companies were retreating. “If
state-owned enterprises can keep reducing in numbers this is a
good thing for China’s development and this is what I hope
for.”  The dominance and expansion of state-owned enterprises has
inspired a new four-character Chinese aphorism:’The state
advances and private companies retreat,’ ’’ Liang said.  Open Markets  Private entrepreneurs “hope the new generation of leaders
will continue to reform and open the market, which means fine-
tuning the relationship between the government and the market,
deepening reforms so the market’s ability to allocate resources
will be stronger, and provide more space for private enterprises
to develop,” Liang said.  Liang is worth $5.1 billion as of Friday, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . He is the sixth-richest
individual in mainland China. His fortune has dropped 27
percent so far this year, according to data from the index.  Sany Heavy, along with Caterpillar Inc. and Hitachi
Construction Machinery Co., has cut production of diggers in
China amid an equipment glut and a seven-quarter slowdown in
economic growth.  The company’s excavator sales, its second-biggest revenue
contributor, fell 27 percent to 2,034 units in the third
quarter, according to  data compiled  by Nomura Holdings Inc.  Profit Decline  The Changsha, Hunan-based company posted a 59 percent drop
in third-quarter  net income  to 714 million yuan ($114 million)
based on domestic accounting standards, according to a  filing  to
the Shanghai stock exchange on Oct. 29. Sales fell 18 percent to
8.9 billion  yuan  while accounts receivable jumped 83 percent to
20.7 billion yuan as of Sept. 30 from nine months earlier,
according to the statement.  “Sany’s current performance is slightly lower compared
with last year, but it’s not a drastic decline,” Liang said
yesterday, without specifying whether he was talking about the
listed company or the parent. “This is a normal adjustment due
to the adjustment in China’s economy. We still have much room to
grow.”  Sany Group aims to derive 40 percent to 50 percent of its
sales from overseas in five years through expansion of the
Putzmeister brand and through other investments, Liang said
yesterday. The company currently derives 15 percent of sales
from outside the country, he said at the Nov. 10 briefing.  Sany Heavy bought Putzmeister Holding GmbH,  Germany ’s
largest cement-pump maker, for $653 million, including debt, in
April 2012.  Liang said Sany “won’t exclude more acquisitions in  Europe 
as there are opportunities due to the  European debt crisis .”  The company has no plans to expand in  Japan  in the next
five years, Liang said, describing the market as “very
protected and hard to enter.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  