-- McIlroy Gets Money-List Double as Manassero Wins in Singapore
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-11-11T19:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/mcilroy-secures-money-list-double-manassero-wins-singapore-open.html
Rory McIlroy will finish atop the
European and U.S. money lists this year after coming third at
the Singapore Open. Italian teenager Matteo Manassero won the
event in a playoff against  Louis Oosthuizen .  Northern Ireland’s McIlroy, the world’s top-ranked golfer,
emulates England’s Luke Donald, who last year became the first
to head both lists in the same season. The 23-year-old was
already assured of the PGA Tour title, with yesterday’s result
adding the European Tour’s Race to Dubai crown.  “A lot of hard work went into this and I am really proud
of what I’ve achieved in 2012,” McIlroy told reporters. “I’ve
still got two events remaining this year and the goal is still
to try and win at least once more.”  McIlroy ended on 10-under-par 274 after shooting a 6-under
final round to climb within three shots of Manassero and South
Africa’s Oosthuizen.  He finished his round with a 30-foot eagle putt to move
ahead of Denmark’s Thomas Bjoern, with  Adam Scott  of  Australia 
and Italy’s Francesco Molinari on 8-under for the tournament.  “I left myself a little bit too much to do to win, but it
was a great way to finish off the round and the tournament,”
McIlroy said.  Manassero, 19, beat Oosthuizen at the third play-off hole
to become the first teenager to win three times on the European
Tour.  He set the record for the youngest winner on the Tour at
the Castello Masters in 2010, aged 17 years, 188 days, and also
won at last year’s Malaysian Open. There have only been a total
of 11 European Tour wins by teenagers.  Manassero collects a check for 770,226 euros ($979,300),
the biggest prize of his career.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 