-- Texans Beat Bears 13-6 as Jets, Giants Lose in NFL’s Week 10
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-12T06:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/cincinnati-bengals-defeat-new-york-giants-31-13-in-nfl-week-10.html
The Houston Texans defeated the
Chicago Bears 13-6 in a showdown of one-loss teams in the
National Football League, while New York’s Giants and Jets both
lost by at least 18 points for the first time in 29 years.  Houston’s  Arian Foster  caught a two-yard pass just before
halftime for the only touchdown last night at Soldier Field in
Chicago. The Texans improved to 8-1, matching Atlanta for the
NFL’s best record after the Falcons lost 31-27 yesterday on the
road against the New Orleans Saints.  The Bears (7-2) had four turnovers as their six-game
winning streak ended.  Jay Cutler  had two interceptions before
becoming the third starting quarterback to be knocked out of a
game with a concussion yesterday, joining  Michael Vick  of the
 Philadelphia Eagles  and  Alex Smith  of the San Francisco 49ers.  The Eagles, without Vick, lost their fifth straight game as
the Dallas Cowboys scored three fourth-quarter touchdowns to
rally for a 38-23 victory. The 49ers and St. Louis Rams played
to a 24-24 tie, the first in the NFL since Nov. 16, 2008.  The  Seattle Seahawks  sent the Jets to their third straight
loss with a 28-7 victory yesterday, while the Cincinnati Bengals
routed the Giants 31-13 to end a four-game losing run. The last
time both New York teams lost by at least 18 points on the same
day was Oct. 16, 1983, according to ESPN.  The  New England Patriots  held on for a 37-31 win over the
 Buffalo Bills , improving to 6-3 as Devin McCourty intercepted a
pass in the end zone with 23 seconds left.  Ravens’ Outburst  Joe Flacco  threw three touchdown passes and ran for a score
as the Baltimore Ravens set a franchise record for points scored
in a game to improve to 7-2 with a 55-20 rout of the Oakland
Raiders. In yesterday’s other Week 10 matchups, it was Tennessee
37, Miami 3; Minnesota 34, Detroit 24; Tampa Bay 34, San Diego
24; and Denver 36, Carolina 14.  The Week 10 schedule, which began Nov. 8 with the
 Indianapolis Colts  winning 27-10 against the Jacksonville
Jaguars, concludes tonight with the Pittsburgh Steelers hosting
the  Kansas City Chiefs . The Steelers are 3-0 at home this season
and seeking a fourth straight victory overall.  The  Green Bay Packers , Cleveland Browns, Washington
Redskins and  Arizona  Cardinals don’t play this week.  The Texans managed only 215 offensive yards against the
Bears’ defense last night, yet held Chicago to 249 yards and
forced two fumbles in addition to twice picking off Cutler, who
didn’t return after halftime because of the concussion.  With backup Jason Campbell at quarterback, the Bears
managed one first down on their four fourth-quarter possessions
and gained a total of 32 yards.  ‘Tough Night’  “It was a tough night for the offenses,” Texans coach
 Gary Kubiak  said at a news conference. “I’m proud of my team
that we found a way to win.”  The Falcons, who entered Week 10 as the NFL’s only unbeaten
team, lost in New Orleans as Saints quarterback Drew Brees threw
three touchdown passes. The Saints (4-5) twice prevented the
Falcons from scoring in the final two minutes, including once
after Atlanta reached their 1-yard line.  The Seahawks rolled past the Jets in Seattle as receiver
Golden Tate caught a touchdown pass and also threw for a score.
The Seahawks improved to 6-4, including a 5-0 mark at home,
while New York dropped to 3-6, extending its worst start since
losing eight of its first nine games during the 2007 season.  The Jets, coming off a bye week, managed 185 yards of
offense and had three turnovers. Their only score came on a 21-
yard fumble return by Muhammad Wilkerson, as quarterback  Mark Sanchez  finished 9-of-22 for 124 yards, with one interception
and a fumble.  ‘Two Percent’  “We had two weeks to prepare for this game, we thought we
were prepared,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said. “It’s just really
disappointing. It’s about a two percent chance of making the
playoffs or something like that with the record we have, but
we’re going to take that shot.”  In Cincinnati,  Andy Dalton  threw four touchdown passes as
the Bengals sent the Giants to a second straight loss. The
Bengals (4-5) scored on their opening two possessions, including
a 56-yard reception by A.J. Green, who scored for the eighth
straight game to extend the NFL’s longest active streak.  Andre Brown got New York’s sole touchdown on a 2-yard run
with 2:46 to play. Giants quarterback Eli Manning has now gone
three games without throwing a touchdown pass.  “I told the team that we certainly got into this mess
together and we’ve got to find a way to get out of it
together,” said Giants coach  Tom Coughlin , whose team takes a
6-4 record into its bye week.  Cowboys Win  The Cowboys improved to 4-5 as their defense scored two
fourth-quarter touchdowns off turnovers by Eagles rookie
quarterback Nick Foles, who replaced the injured Vick.
Philadelphia fell to 3-6 and has now logged five consecutive
defeats for the first time in coach  Andy Reid ’s 14-year tenure.  The 49ers scored 17 fourth-quarter points behind backup
quarterback Colin Kaepernick to force overtime against the Rams,
yet couldn’t pull out the win. Both teams missed field goals in
overtime, while the Rams (3-5-1) had an 80-yard pass completion
on the first play of extra time erased because of an illegal
formation penalty. The 49ers are now 6-2-1.  “I’ve been doing this a while and I don’t think I’ve ever
been in a game like this,” said Rams coach  Jeff Fisher , who’s
in his 18th year as an NFL head coach. “We had a number of
chances to put this one away and unfortunately we didn’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  