-- Could Economic Growth Kill Us?
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2012-11-11T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/could-economic-growth-kill-us-.html
Now that the  U.S. presidential
election  is over, attention has turned to the challenge of
keeping the world’s largest economy growing. The underlying
assumption is that growth is always the proper goal.  What if that assumption were wrong? Given our current
economic malaise, and the obvious needs of the poor in
developing nations, growth may be the only sensible aim in the
short term. But what if, in the very long term,  economic growth 
had some natural limit, beyond which it actually became
detrimental to the survival of the human race?  This idea has been treated as heresy every time it has been
raised,  first by Thomas Malthus  two centuries ago, and again by
the famous  Limits to Growth  analysis initiated in the 1970s by
the  Club of Rome  think tank. Yet heresies have at times turned
out to be true. And this one has some pretty good logic on its
side.  The argument takes many forms, but for me the most
convincing centers on energy. Nothing in physics is more
fundamental. The “E” of Einstein’s famous E=mc^2 is the vital
quantity behind all action and motion. It is never created or
destroyed, it merely changes form. The energy in  Hurricane Sandy 
hasn’t vanished. It has transmogrified into destroyed buildings,
felled trees and vast quantities of heat -- released by rains 
-- spread across the eastern U.S.  Energy Use  Every organism, from a tiny bacterium to an elephant,
relies on a steady flow of energy to maintain its physical
function, warding off the cold equilibrium of death. Homo
sapiens is no exception, both individually and collectively.
Humans use a constantly increasing amount of energy to keep
themselves warm and to fuel increasing economic activity. Over
the past three centuries, in the U.S. and globally, energy use
has increased at an average annual rate of about 3 percent or
so, which means we now use roughly 10,000 times as much energy
as we did 300 years ago.  Most people -- certainly most economists and politicians --
seem to expect such growth to continue indefinitely, as we grow
ever richer through technology and innovation. All we need are
clean energy sources -- a green revolution, perhaps, or a final
breakthrough in harnessing nuclear fusion -- to guarantee our
growth and prosperity.  Such expectations ignore a big problem, and it’s not the
possibility of running out of energy. In the long run, the
danger is that we will use too much of it, no matter how we
obtain it. Discovering a source of limitless free energy could
actually be a disaster.  Here’s why. Most of the energy we use unavoidably ends up
as heat in the environment. Heat your house and it will
eventually escape to the air outside. Drive your car and you
heat the engine and tires, stirring the air along the way. Run
any machine or factory and you will create heat. The more energy
we use, the more the environment should tend to warm up.  Currently, this dynamic is nothing to worry about. It’s not
even a small contributor to  climate change . All told, we gather
and use only one part in 10,000 of all the energy arriving at
the Earth from the sun. This amounts to less than 1 percent of
the energy imbalance linked to carbon-dioxide emissions, which
trap the sun’s heat in the Earth’s atmosphere.  In the long term, though, our energy use alone can easily
eclipse emissions as the primary driver of global warming.  Boiling Oceans  Consider what now looks like an impossibly rosy scenario:
Our leaders act over the next few decades to limit carbon-
dioxide levels so that warming linked to them stops by 2050. In
that case, an annual increase of only 1 percent in energy use --
very slow growth by historical standards -- would be enough to
cause noticeable climate change in about 150 years, according to
 research  by Nick E.B. Cowern and Chihak Ahn of Newcastle
University. If we want our economy to grow at, say, 3 percent a
year in the long run, with energy use rising 2 to 3 percent each
year, then the numbers suggest we will actually boil the oceans
in only a few centuries. (Physicist  Tom Murphy  of the  University
of California  at  San Diego  offers an informative and amusing
look at the logical consequences of exponential growth in energy
use on his blog  Do the Math .)  Needless to say, we can’t do that. But if energy use has
limits, so may economic growth. So far, at least, nobody has
found a way to decouple the two. Data on economic growth and
energy across many nations over the period 1980 to 2003 show
that larger economies as a rule require more energy. Energy use
doesn’t appear to grow quite as fast as economic output --
there’s an  efficiency of scale  that begins to kick in. The
pattern looks remarkably like one known from biology: Big
animals use more energy than small ones, but are slightly more
efficient pound for pound. Economies might have something like a
metabolism.  In the absence of a miraculous decoupling, we’re faced with
a daunting prospect. In the West, our economies are designed
around growth and would collapse without it. Slowing growth, if
and when it happens, will require an attendant transformation of
the very foundations of economic organization -- a
transformation of a kind that no one can now honestly imagine.
The few thinkers who have tried -- such as economist  Herman Daly 
-- have generally been ignored by the mainstream.  Perhaps a few supersmart economists out there at places
like Harvard, Chicago and MIT are at work now, at least part
time, trying to imagine a future beyond growth, thinking about
how we might prepare ourselves and organize our economies
differently. I hope so.  ( Mark Buchanan , a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  re-examining the cost of
federal flood insurance  and on  ending the opacity at the
European Central Bank ; William D. Cohan on  Obama’s next economic
team ;  Noah Feldman  on how  same-sex marriage and marijuana votes 
can influence the  Supreme Court ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  Obama’s ideal
fiscal-cliff point man ;  Simon Johnson  on  candidates for Treasury
secretary ; Colin Woodard on the  regional philosophies behind
Obama’s and Romney’s supporters .  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 