-- Crook, Manager of Del Piero’s Sydney FC, Resigns After Losses
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-11-11T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/crook-manager-of-del-piero-s-sydney-fc-resigns-after-losses.html
Ian Crook, the manager of Alessandro Del Piero’s Sydney FC in  Australia , quit after his six games in
charge of the  A-League  soccer team netted only two wins.  Former World Cup winner Del Piero, who became Australia’s
biggest soccer import in September when he signed a two-year
contract, was part of the team on Nov. 10 when Melbourne Victory
came back from two goals down to beat Sydney FC 3-2. That came a
week after the Central Coast Mariners routed Sydney 7-2.  “I’ve felt like it’s been a burden,” Crook told reporters
at a press conference in Sydney yesterday. “This is 100 percent
my decision.” His club’s last two results were the “straw that
broke the camel’s back,” he said.  Sydney FC beat competition from clubs in  England ,
 Switzerland  and  Scotland  to sign Del Piero, who became a free
agent in May after scoring 289 goals in a record 704 matches for
28-time Italian champion Juventus.  Sydney FC has been a pioneer in bringing high-profile
players to the A-League. The club, which won the championship in
2006 and 2010, made former Manchester United striker Dwight Yorke its first marquee signing in 2005 and also brought
Brazilian World Cup winner Juninho to Australia in 2007.  Del Piero, 38, is being paid about A$2 million ($2.1
million) a season, making him the highest-paid player in
Australia’s four football codes, according to the Sydney Morning
Herald.  During his time with Juventus, Del Piero won six Italian
Serie A championships, one Champions League title and the
Intercontinental Cup. He also played 91 games for the Italian
national team and his 27 goals put him in a tie for fourth place
on the country’s all-time goalscorers’ list.  England-born Crook, 49, is a former player for Tottenham
Hotspur and Norwich City, which he coached in 2009-10. Assistant
coach Steve Corica will play a caretaker manager role at Sydney
FC until a permanent replacement is named.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  