-- China to Raise RQFII Quota, Boost Foreign Investor Access
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-12T04:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/csrc-says-china-ready-to-increase-foreign-investor-access.html
China  will increase fourfold a
program that allows investors to bring in  yuan  raised overseas
to meet demand for the nation’s securities.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission, the People’s
Bank of China and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange
have agreed in principle to increase the quota for the  Renminbi 
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program by 200 billion
yuan ($32 billion),  Guo Shuqing , chairman of the securities
regulator, said at a briefing in Beijing yesterday. Hong Kong
officials asked for the amount to be lifted, Guo said. The
current quota is 70 billion yuan.  China approved the RQFII program last December, allowing
the Hong Kong units of Chinese financial companies to raise yuan
offshore for investment in domestic  capital markets . Guo has cut
trading fees, pushed companies to increase dividends and allowed
 trust companies  to buy equities since becoming chairman a year
ago in an effort to shore up the stock market.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index added 0.1 percent to 2,071.80
at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break, while the yuan gained the
most in six weeks after the government reported the fastest
export growth in five months.  “The RQFII program is very positive,” said Wu Kan, a  fund
manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co. in Shanghai, which oversees
$285 million. Still, “the 200 billion-yuan quota isn’t big
enough to shore up stocks immediately.”  While the yuan is freely convertible for trade
transactions, investment in stocks or bonds onshore can only be
made using quotas assigned by the government and direct
investments need regulatory approval.  Stocks Slump  The Shanghai index has lost 5.8 percent this year, while
the  MSCI China Index (MXCN)  of mostly Hong Kong-traded shares, open to
overseas investors, has gained 11 percent as U.S. bond purchases
spurred foreign funds to pour money into  emerging markets .  China also plans to boost its stock markets by announcing
bigger  tax deductions  on dividends for long-term investors, the
Xinhua News Agency reported over the weekend, citing the CSRC.  “The  tax policy  will guide investors to holding stocks for
the long term, and companies paying high dividends will attract
more attention in the market,” Xinhua reported Nov. 10, citing
an unidentified CSRC spokesman.  QFII Expansion  China will “definitely” expand the foreign-currency quota
provided under the Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor
program once the current allotments are filled, Guo said. The
central bank and the foreign exchange regulator have no
objection, he said.  “We are ready to implement many more measures to help
resolve the issue of inconvenience,” Guo said at the briefing,
held as the 18th Chinese Communist Party congress gathered to
elect new leaders. Those changes include tax incentives and
rebates for foreign investors, on which there has been “solid
progress,” and support from other government departments, he
said, without giving more details about the policies.  China raised QFII quotas to $80 billion from $30 billion in
April. The securities regulator is studying the possibility of
boosting the $1 billion ceiling on individual funds in the QFII
program, Guo said.  The securities regulator is also studying rule changes that
would lower the threshold for Chinese companies to sell shares
in  Hong Kong , Guo said. Any changes would need the approval of
Hong Kong authorities and no formal agreement has been reached
yet, according to Guo.  Currency Flows  Regulators are studying ways to improve the management of
foreign exchange flows, according to Guo. The securities
regulator is considering rules allowing large institutional
investors, to move money out of China in stages, either within a
few years or in a single year, he said.  “In the past, we encouraged inflows and restricted
outflows of funds,” Guo said. China should move to “more
balanced” and “more neutral” measures, he said. “That
doesn’t mean that there will be no control at all. There will
certainly have to be some control so that market movements will
not be too volatile,” Guo said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  