-- Del Potro Tops Federer to Reach ATP World Tour Semifinal
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-11T17:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/del-potro-tops-federer-to-reach-atp-world-tour-semifinal.html
Top-ranked Novak Djokovic came back
from a set and a break down to beat Juan Martin  del Potro  and
book a spot in tomorrow’s championship match at the  ATP World
Tour Finals .  The 25-year-old from  Serbia  defeated the 24-year-old
Argentine 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 at  London ’s O2 arena. Djokovic, the 2008
champion at the season-ending event, remains undefeated this
week in London.  “It’s a big win for me,” Djokovic said in a court-side
interview. “He was the better player in the first set but I
managed to turn it around. I just told myself to stay out there
fighting,” said the Serb, who had lost the bronze medal match
at the London Olympics to Del Potro.  The six-foot-six Del Potro had characterized the semifinals
line-up as “three big names and one big guy,” with Wimbledon
champion Roger Federer and Olympic gold medalist  Andy Murray 
contesting the other match.  Del Potro made Djokovic run all over the court in the first
set as he attacked him on both wings with his flatly struck
forehand.  Djokovic held his hands on his hips after he missed an easy
smash at 3-3 that bounced before the net to hand Del Potro a
break point. Although he held for 4-3 as Del Potro hit a
forehand into the net, the Serb was broken in his next service
game as the sixth-seed kept on applying pressure from the back
of the court with groundstrokes of more than 100 miles-per-hour.
Del Potro served out the first set to love with a backhand
winner.  The match seemed over after Djokovic got broken again early
on in the second set with a blistering forehand.  Del Potro Errors  Instead, he got the break back for 2-2 as the Argentine
started to make unforced errors. Del Potro, who qualified for
the semifinals yesterday by beating Federer in three sets while
Djokovic had the day off, seemed a step slower after that. Now
Djokovic was in command in the long baseline rallies as he broke
once again for a 5-3 lead.  Djokovic forced a deciding set on a mishit forehand. The
Belgrade-born player quickly went up a double-break, and served
out the match as his opponent hit a return into the net.  “I tried to stay positive, stay composed,” Djokovic said.
“It worked another time,” added the five-time Grand Slam
champion, who twice beat Federer in the semifinals of the  U.S.
Open  from match points down.  Federer and Murray’s meeting later today will be their
third this season in London.  Federer Oldest  Second-ranked Federer has lost 10 of 18 matches against
Murray. The Swiss beat the third-ranked Scot at Wimbledon in
July, a result that reduced his opponent to tears afterwards. A
month later, Murray got the better of Federer in the Olympic
gold-medal match.  Federer, the oldest man in the eight-man field at 31, won
the year-end championships for a record-extending sixth time
last year.  Ivan Lendl  and  Pete Sampras  are next with five
titles.  Murray, 25, is trying to become the first British man in
the tournament’s 42-year history to play in the final. He
rewrote the tennis history books in September by beating
Djokovic in the final of the U.S. Open, ending Britain’s 76-year
wait for a male Grand Slam singles champion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at London’s O2 arena through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  