-- Yen Drops After Japan GDP Shrinks Most Since 2011 Quake
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-11-12T06:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/euro-trades-near-2-month-low-before-european-finance-chiefs-meet.html
The yen weakened against most of its
major counterparts after data today showed  Japan ’s economy
contracted in the third quarter at the fastest pace since last
year’s record earthquake.  The Japanese currency halted three days of advances versus
the euro after  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa signaled
the central bank remains distant from its 1 percent inflation
target, fanning speculation that policy makers will expand
stimulus. The euro rebounded from near a two-month low against
the greenback after Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras secured
support from a majority of lawmakers for the 2013 budget needed
to unlock international bailout funds.  “We’re seeing a bit of yen selling against its crosses,”
said Lee Wai Tuck, currency strategist at Forecast Pte in
Singapore. “There is some concern that Japan may be falling
into recession.”  The yen slid 0.2 percent to 101.26 per euro as of 6:51 a.m.
in  London  from 101.05 at the close on Nov. 9, following a 1.9
percent gain over the previous three sessions. It was little
changed at 79.51 per dollar. The euro added 0.2 percent to
$1.2735, after touching $1.2690 last week, the lowest since
Sept. 7.  In Japan, gross domestic product fell an annualized 3.5
percent in the three months through September, after a revised
0.3 percent gain the previous quarter, the Cabinet Office said
in  Tokyo  today. The median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 3.4 percent drop.  Recession Again  The world’s third-largest economy will probably shrink at
an annual pace of 0.4 percent this quarter, according to the
median forecast of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That
would be the third technical recession since 2008. Japanese
recessions are officially defined by a government-charged panel
that considers data beyond GDP figures.  Shirakawa said today that the nation’s economy is
weakening, citing a strong currency. The BOJ increased its
asset-purchase program by 11 trillion yen ($138.4 billion) to 66
trillion yen on Oct. 30, saying the central bank and the
government will make “ utmost ”  efforts to overcome deflation.
Shirakawa and his board next gather on Nov. 19-20.  The yen has declined 5 percent this year, the worst
performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has fallen
1.4 percent while the euro has weakened 3.3 percent.  Greece’s Samaras secured the vote on Greece’s 2013 budget
with 167 votes in the 300-seat parliamentary chamber today,
setting up the next tranche of an international bailout. The
nation’s fiscal plan, which forecasts a deficit of 5.2 percent
of GDP and a sixth year of contraction, is designed to regain
the confidence of its euro-area and International Monetary Fund
creditors.  Bailout Prospects  The vote was the second in five days after lawmakers
approved an austerity bill on Nov. 8 containing economic reforms
and 13.5 billion euros of austerity measures demanded by
 Greece ’s creditors.  Euro-area finance ministers will meet at 5 p.m. in Brussels
today. While ministers probably won’t approve 31.5 billion euros
($40 billion) in fresh loans to Greece, the maturing of 5
billion euros of Greek bills on Nov. 16 won’t lead to an
“accidental default,” a European official said last week.  “People may be buying back the euro a bit on the news that
Greece passed the budget,” said Kumiko Gervaise, an analyst at
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in Tokyo. “But it doesn’t
necessarily mean that we can expect a smooth decision on the
aid.”  Futures traders increased their bets that the euro will
decline against the dollar for a third week, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  Net Shorts  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 67,141 on Nov. 6,
compared with net shorts of 58,204 a week earlier.  Australia ’s dollar rose after a bigger-than-estimated trade
surplus in  China  brightened prospects for commodity exports, and
data today showed Australian  home-loan approvals  rose for a
second month.  China’s customs administration said Nov. 10 the nation’s
exports exceeded imports by $32 billion in October, compared to
a $27.3 billion trade surplus estimated by economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. China is Australia’s biggest trading partner.  In Australia, the number of loans granted to build or buy
houses and apartments rose 0.9 percent in September from the
previous month, when it grew by a revised 2.1 percent, the
statistics bureau said in Sydney today.  The so-called Aussie dollar climbed 0.3 percent to
$1.04218.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  