-- Mexico Peso Worst-From-First Slide Means U.S. Slump: Currencies
-- B y   Y e   X i e ,   B e n   B a i n   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-11-12T19:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/mexico-peso-worst-from-first-slide-means-u-s-slump-currencies.html
Mexico ’s peso has turned from the
world’s strongest major currency into the weakest of the past
month amid growing investor concern the economy will slow as
demand diminishes from the U.S., its biggest trading partner.  After strengthening 12 percent against the dollar since the
end of May, the peso has weakened more than 2 percent, the
biggest decline among 16 most traded currencies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. X-Trade Brokers Dom Maklerski SA,
the second most-accurate forecaster, says it will depreciate
another 3.7 percent by September and Bank of Nova Scotia, the
third-best, recommends selling the peso. Futures traders are
cutting bullish bets at the fastest rate since June.  The peso is vulnerable because Mexico, which depends on the
U.S. for 80 percent of its exports, will expand 3.6 percent next
year, the least since the 2009 recession, as President-Elect
Enrique Pena Nieto takes office, the median of 23 economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows. The past month’s losses
surprised investors who bought Mexican assets to take advantage
of the nation’s higher interest rates at a time when the Federal
Reserve was debasing the dollar.  “The peso is really a very good indicator of the risk-on,
risk-off mood that markets have been displaying lately,”
Guillermo Ortiz, chairman of Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB and
Mexico’s former central bank governor, said in a Nov. 7
interview in Mexico City. “All the uncertainties regarding the
world economy, the fiscal outlook and so on and so forth,
determine the appetite of investors.”  Foreign Demand  For much of this year, the peso advanced as international
investors increased holdings of Mexico’s local fixed-rate bonds
to a record 964 billion pesos ($73 billion) last month, or 52
percent of those outstanding, from 43 percent at the end of
2011, according to the central bank.  While the Fed, European Central Bank and Bank of  Japan  have
cut borrowing costs to near zero or bought bonds since July 2009
to spur economic growth, Mexico central bank Governor Agustin Carstens has kept its benchmark at 4.5 percent, the only Group-
of-20 nation to stand pat in that period.  Now, the currency is weakening as U.S. President  Barack Obama  negotiates with Congress to avoid more than $600 billion
in mandated spending cuts and tax increases starting Jan. 1. The
so-called fiscal cliff may drive the U.S. back into recession,
according to the Congressional Budget Office.  ‘Crowded Positioning’  Scotia recommended on Nov. 5 that its clients sell the
peso, citing “somewhat crowded positioning” and
“uncertainty” over U.S. debt talks and global growth. Morgan
Stanley advises using options to buy insurance against a
“deeper” sell-off.  X-Trade predicts it will decline to 13.71 per dollar by the
end of September, from 13.2003 last week. There’s a 37 percent
chance that the peso will trade at that level or weaker by Sept.
30, according to option prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso fell 1.2 percent last week against the dollar, the
most since June. The currency’s decline handed an investor in
Mexican bonds a 3 percent loss in dollar terms over the past
month, according to data compiled by Bank of America Corp.  It fell 0.2 to 13.2207 per dollar as of 1:10 p.m. in Mexico
City, trading at 2.6 percent below its 200-week moving average.
The peso lost 9 percent in the three months after crossing below
the moving average in August 2011.  The currency is moving against the consensus expectations
of Wall Street strategists. The median estimate of more than 25
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg shows the peso will strengthen to
12.8 per dollar by Dec. 31 and to 12.4 by the end of 2013.
JPMorgan Chase & Co., the most accurate forecaster, sees it at
11.9 by September.  Stronger Peso  Carstens signaled last week that a stronger peso would help
curb  inflation , which accelerated to 4.77 percent in September,
the fastest since March 2010. Mexico’s currency has “solid
grounds” to advance, he said in a Nov. 5 interview in Mexico
City following the conclusion of G-20 meetings. Two days later,
he said the “greatest concern” was that persistently
“elevated” inflation would become more entrenched.  Economists predict the central bank won’t reduce benchmark
interest rates in the next year, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  “We like the fundamentals of Mexico and the peso is still
attractively priced,” said Thomas Kressin, a senior vice-
president and head of European foreign-exchange in Munich at
Pacific Investment Management Co. The company, which oversees
$1.9 trillion from its headquarters in Newport Beach,
 California , is betting the peso will rise against the dollar and
the euro.  At an estimated 43 percent of gross domestic product,
Mexico’s debt load compares with 107 percent for the U.S.,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  Higher Yields  The 5.33 percent yield on Mexico’s 6.5 percent bonds due in
2022 is more than three times higher than comparable-maturity
Treasuries. The nation’s government debt has returned 11.5
percent this year, compared with 4.3 percent for sovereign bonds
globally, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Investors also bought the peso on speculation that Pena
Nieto, 46, will follow through on plans by current President
Felipe Calderon to boost the labor market. Pena Nieto, who takes
office Dec. 1 after helping the State of Mexico win four credit-
rating upgrades by Standard & Poor’s when he was governor from
2005 to 2011, has also said he will make tax collections more
efficient and increase private investment in the energy sector.  Recent peso weakness shouldn’t “detract from the bigger
picture, which is an incredibly competitive currency, a very
supportive monetary and fiscal backdrop, decent economic data
with growth likely this year to be close to 4 percent and sound
public finances,” Adrian Owens, a money manager at GAM in
 London , said in a Nov. 8 interview. His firm is a unit of GAM
Holding AG with $48 billion under management.  Fiscal Cliff  Owens favors betting on the peso against a basket of
currencies made up of the New Zealand and Canada dollars, the
pound and the euro. “I will be looking at any near-term
weakness” in the peso “to add to that position,” he said.  Such views are increasingly at risk amid speculation that
Mexico won’t be able to escape a U.S. slowdown. Even if the
government defers the spending cuts and tax increases,
economists have cut their 2013 growth estimates to 2 percent
from 2.4 percent as recently as June, according to the median of
more than 80 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a gain in the peso versus a decline
is shrinking, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show.  Net longs  fell by 11,587
contracts to 114,422 last week, continuing their drop from
141,256 in the week of Sept. 25, the highest level since at
least 1995.  Global Shocks  Peso weakness contrasts with gains in the  Dollar Index (DXY) ,
which measures the U.S. currency against six major trading
partners and is up 2.7 percent since Sept. 14. That was a day
after the Fed said it would print dollars to buy $40 billion of
mortgage bonds a month in a third round of so-called
quantitative easing.  The Fed added $2.3 trillion to the financial system in the
first two rounds of QE, between December 2008 and March 2010,
and from November 2010 through June 2011. The Dollar Index
declined 4.6 percent during the first round and 3.9 percent in
the second.  The peso is the most sensitive of any major currency to
shocks to the global economy, based on the 30-day correlation
with the  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX) , a
measure of U.S. equity derivatives known as the fear gauge.  The currency depreciated 9.5 percent in May as the  European
debt crisis  spread to Spain and  Italy , and tumbled 12 percent in
the two months after Standard & Poor’s stripped the U.S. of its
AAA credit rating on Aug. 5, 2011, sparking a selloff in stocks
around the world.  “The Mexican peso has more downside risk than upside
risk,” Stephen Jen, managing partner at hedge fund SLJ Macro
Partners LLP in London and the former head of currency research
at Morgan Stanley, said in a telephone interview. “A lot of
money has gone into the peso. I am skeptical.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  