-- Gay Marriage and Marijuana Are Coming to the Court
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-11-11T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/gay-marriage-and-marijuana-are-coming-to-the-court.html
Washington  remains essentially
unaltered after last week’s election. In the states, however,
referendums on same-sex marriage and medical marijuana represent
genuine change -- and will have an impact at the Supreme Court
as well.  The four referendums on same-sex marriage mark a striking
minitrend. Before last week’s election, six states had legalized
same-sex marriage, but in each case it was either mandated by
the courts or enacted by the state legislature. Because judges
are mostly unelected and state legislators are mostly unknown
(quick: name yours), it’s plausible that this approval of same-
sex marriage did not fully reflect the public’s view.  This time around, majorities of voters in  Maryland ,  Maine 
and Washington passed laws that would extend marriage rights to
same-sex couples. These popular votes represent a real shift in
public opinion, at least in these relatively progressive states
without large contingents of either evangelical or conservative
Catholic voters. (Meanwhile, in  Minnesota , voters rejected a
proposed state constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage
-- more evidence of blue-state sympathy for the cause.)  These four results matter particularly because the Supreme
Court is very likely this year to consider two cases that
implicate the question whether there is a fundamental
constitutional right to marry whomever you want.  Judicial Wariness  The general arc of the Supreme Court’s decisions on gay
rights has been gradually bending toward marriage. Indeed, in
the 2004 case of  Lawrence v. Texas , which established a right to
gay sex, Justice Antonin Scalia explicitly stated that the
majority opinion (which he did not join) “leaves on pretty shaky
grounds state laws limiting marriage to opposite-sex couples.”
At the same time, the court is traditionally wary of getting too
far ahead of national opinion on hot-button social issues.  Conventional wisdom has it that high-profile, controversial
Supreme Court decisions create a backlash against the position
they affirm. According to this view,  Roe v. Wade  is the very
model of what not to do: By creating a constitutional right to
abortion before the public was ready for it, the decision
intensified opposition to abortion and harmed the legitimacy of
the court.  Those who worry about backlash believe that the remedy is
for the court not to enact new rights until a national social
movement has begun to make those rights broadly accepted in the
public mind. For the gay-rights movement, then, these popular
referendums approving same-sex marriage could not have come at a
better moment. More than any lower-court decision, they let the
justices know that the time for same-sex marriage is near.  Advocates for same-sex marriage know that they cannot rely
solely on referendums, of course, which will not pass in red
states in the foreseeable future. But these votes can help show
the justices that a gay-rights decision would be hailed as
historic and heroic, not reviled and rejected as premature.  The legalization of marijuana is not a moral issue on par
with same-sex marriage. But advocates of legalization also hope
to create the impression of a trending social movement. Colorado
and Washington became the first states in U.S. history to pass
referendums making recreational marijuana use legal. Meanwhile,
 Massachusetts  became the 18th state to permit medical marijuana.  Again, the means are as important as the end: Elected
officials may not see the advantage in being soft on drugs, but
the public -- which, after all, needn’t worry about standing for
re-election -- can vote its conscience. If laws permitting
medical marijuana are seen as reflections of public sentiment
for its eventual legalization, not an unreasonable inference,
then the direction of the movement is clear. Colorado and
Washington have broken the taboo on overt legalization.  New Litigation  This new scenario will involve Supreme Court precedent and
maybe new litigation. Even if states legalize marijuana,
Congress has the power to make its use a crime, and to ban
physicians from prescribing it where it is medically legal.  In 2005, in  Gonzales v. Raich , the Supreme Court held that
Congress could make it a crime to use medical marijuana even
when the drug was home-grown by the user, was not sold, and did
not move in interstate commerce. The key precedent was the 1942
case of  Wickard v. Filburn , which presented almost the same
facts and reached the same conclusion regarding the production
of wheat for home use. (Wickard was also the central case cited
by Chief Justice John Roberts when he cast the deciding vote  to
uphold  the Affordable Care Act last June. As much as
conservative justices might regret Raich, there is no way
Roberts would undercut his controversial vote to accommodate
potheads.)  If the federal ban on marijuana is here to stay, that
leaves the question of the federal government’s capacity to
enforce its laws. In practice, the feds cannot go after small-
time growers in any serious way, to say nothing of users. Could
they enlist state law enforcement to enforce federal law? The
health-care decision says that Congress cannot threaten the
withdrawal of major funding, and earlier precedent involving gun
control says that the federal government may not commandeer
state resources. So any federal effort to make states enforce
antidrug laws would be subject to legal challenge.  The upshot is that de facto legalization of marijuana might
occur even if the federal government never takes part. There
will be no dramatic headline, as there would be for a same-sex
marriage decision. But the will of the people will prevail, and
the Supreme Court will not stand in the way.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at Harvard University and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  re-examining the cost of
federal flood insurance  and on  ending the opacity at the
European Central Bank ; Mark Buchanan on the  limits to economic
growth ; William D. Cohan on  Obama’s next economic team ; Albert
R. Hunt on  Obama’s ideal fiscal-cliff point man ; Simon Johnson
on  candidates for Treasury secretary ; Colin Woodard on the
 regional philosophies behind Obama’s and Romney’s supporters .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 