-- Graham Says Republicans to Resume U.S. Immigration Talks
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-11-12T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/graham-says-republicans-to-resume-u-s-immigration-reform-talks.html
Citing a growing rift between the
Republican Party and Hispanic voters, South Carolina Senator
Lindsey Graham said yesterday he intends to re-open bipartisan
talks to overhaul U.S. immigration policy.  Graham, who proposed a four-point immigration plan together
with Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer of New York in 2010, said
he will again work to get an agreement this year.  A divisive congressional debate on immigration in 2006 and
2007 “built a wall” between Republicans and Hispanic voters,
Graham said on CBS’ “Face the Nation” program. “I intend to
tear this wall down and pass an immigration reform bill that’s
an American solution to an American problem,” he said.  Schumer said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that he’s
discussing the overhaul legislation with Graham. Republican
interest in the issue is elevated after President  Barack Obama 
captured 71 percent of the nation’s fast-growing Hispanic vote
in his re-election last week.  “The Republican Party has learned that being anti-illegal,
anti-immigrant, doesn’t work for them,” Schumer said.  The Census Bureau  estimates  there were about 10.8 million
unauthorized immigrants living in the U.S. in 2010, more than
half of them Mexican. Obama’s re-election opponent, former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , advocated a program he
called “self-deportation” for illegal immigrants that would
require them to leave the country to receive legal status.
Democrats say such a plan is unworkable; Graham agreed.  “We need to be firm and fair,” Graham said on CBS
yesterday. “Self-deportation is not going to work.”  House Speaker John Boehner said last week that Republicans
would like to resolve the debate.  Boehner’s View  “This issue has been around far too long,” Boehner said
in an interview with ABC News on Nov. 8. “A comprehensive
approach is long overdue, and I’m confident that the president,
myself, others can find the common ground to take care of this
issue once and for all.”  Graham said an overhaul would start by securing U.S.
borders and making it more difficult for American firms to hire
illegal immigrants. The legislation would create a
“guestworker” system for immigrants, he said, and require
illegal immigrants to pay taxes and fines to gain legal status.
Those seeking citizenship would have to learn English and “get
in back of the line,” he said.  “It could take over a decade to get a green card,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  