-- Indonesia Pension Fund Increases Bets on Growth: Southeast Asia
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2012-11-12T03:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/indonesia-pension-fund-increases-bets-on-growth-southeast-asia.html
Indonesia ’s biggest pension fund is
preparing to put more money into stocks and bonds, betting the
fastest pace of economic growth in  Southeast Asia  will continue.  PT Jaminan Sosial Tenaga Kerja  will raise its holdings of
consumer, construction and banking-related stocks that are
poised to gain from a bigger middle class and government
infrastructure spending, President Director Elvyn Masassya said
in a Nov. 8 interview in Jakarta. The state-owned institution,
known as Jamsostek, will increase its corporate-bond investments
to seek better returns as yields on government notes fall toward
a record low reached in February, Masassya said.  “For 2013, we will keep reducing our investments in time
deposits and raise the allocation in stocks, bonds and direct
investments,” Masassya said. “We are still predicting economic
growth will be above 6 percent next year, probably around 6.3
percent-6.4 percent.”  Record-low interest rates have helped Southeast Asia’s
biggest economy expand more than 6 percent for the past eight
quarters, with growth outperforming every major Asian economy
except  China  this year. The central bank held its benchmark
 interest rate  last week at 5.75 percent for a ninth month, even
as  consumer prices  gained by the most in 13 months.  Jamsostek, which allocated 33.1 percent of its 130 trillion
rupiah ($13.5 billion) of funds in  time deposits  as of October,
will lower the proportion to 28 percent next year, the minimum
level allowed, Masassya said. It will increase its holdings in
stocks and bonds to the maximum ceiling of 22 percent and 48
percent respectively, he said.  Fastest Growth  The fund will review its investment guidelines for the next
five years in 2013 to further increase the maximum limits
allowed into equity and debt, as well as raise the combined
ceiling for property and direct investments to as much as 10
percent from 5 percent currently, Masassya said.  Indonesia’s economy may expand 6.6 percent next year,
compared with the 6.8 percent forecast in the government’s
budget, Vice Finance Minister Anny Ratnawati said in an
interview on Nov. 7. That would be the fastest growth since
before the 1997-1998 Asian financial crisis, according to data
from the  International Monetary Fund .  Bank Indonesia  may have to increase its  reference rate  to
as high as 6 percent next year to manage faster inflation and a
potential outflow of funds from banks to  capital markets ,
Masassya said. Inflation may accelerate to 5 percent next year
due to higher electricity prices, Perry Warjiyo, Bank
Indonesia’s executive director for economic research and
monetary policy, told reporters on Oct. 12.  Funding Costs  “We have to adjust our placement to companies with less
sensitivity to higher interest rates,” Masassya said. “Banking
is an example. Cost of funds will rise and increase their risks,
though this isn’t true of all banks.”  While he declined to name specific consumer, construction
or financial-related stocks that Jamsostek will buy, the three
industries are closely linked to the “main drivers” of the
economy, Masassya said.  Shares of Holcim Indonesia, the country’s third largest
cement producer, jumped as much as 4.8 percent today while PT
Semen Gresik rose 1 percent. Construction company PT Wijaya
Karya gained as much as 2.5 percent and PT Pembangunan Perumahan
advanced 2.5 percent.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  has pledged to build
more highways, airports and ports as part of a plan to bolster
growth. The government will boost infrastructure spending to
more than 200 trillion rupiah and will require monthly budget
disbursement plans from ministries to speed projects, Vice
Finance Minister Ratnawati said.  Corporate Bonds  Jamsostek will increase its investments in corporate bonds
to 35 percent of its fixed-income allocation, from 30 percent,
to seek better returns as yields on government notes fall toward
a record-low reached in February, Masassya said. Yields on local
notes are expected to rise next year as the central bank begins
tightening its monetary policy, he said.  “This year has been a party for issuers,” he said. “We
will see more bargaining between issuers and investors next year
as yields have reached their bottom this year.”  The yield on Indonesia’s benchmark  10-year notes  was 5.56
percent on Nov. 9, the lowest level since March 1, prices from
the Inter Dealer Market Association show.  Global funds increased their holdings of  government debt  to
a record high of 255.3 trillion rupiah on Nov. 6, Finance
Ministry data show. Overseas investors bought $1.7 billion more
local stocks than they sold this year through Nov. 9, according
to stock-exchange data.  Stock Gains  The  Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  may reach 5,000 next year, from
4,333.64 as of the close of trading on Nov. 9, as rising incomes
drive more Indonesians to invest in capital markets and on
continued foreign inflows, Masassya said. The benchmark  stock
index  has gained 13 percent this year.  Jamsostek’s total assets under management will increase by
as much as 20 percent next year from an estimated 132 trillion
rupiah by the end of this year, he said.  “In the last three years, our strategy has been to reduce
our allocation in time deposits and increase investment into the
capital market as we believe the economy will grow well,”
Masassya said. “We will continue this in 2013.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  