-- Iran’s Currency Crisis May Worsen GDP Shrinkage: IMF Says
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-11-12T13:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/iran-currency-crisis-likely-to-worsen-gdp-shrinkage-imf.html
Iran ’s currency crisis will probably
deepen the Islamic republic’s economic contraction this year by
more than the  International Monetary Fund  had estimated, the
fund’s  Middle East  chief said.  The IMF had forecast the Iranian economy would shrink 0.9
percent this year, while inflation would surge to a four-year
high of 25.2 percent. The predictions are based on data from
before the rial’s slump, which “will likely have a further
negative impact on economic outcomes in the coming year,”
 Masood Ahmed , head of the Middle East and Central Asia
department, said in an interview in Dubai yesterday.  The rial has tumbled about 40 percent against the dollar
since August as the U.S. and the European Union starve the
country of foreign currency by blocking sales of oil, its main
export. Crude  output  has plunged to the lowest in more than two
decades.  Israel , which has accused Iran of trying to develop atomic
weapons, has threatened to attack to halt the Islamic Republic’s
nuclear program if sanctions don’t succeed. Iranian leaders, who
insist that their atomic work is peaceful, say they won’t bow to
the pressure.  “The Iranians are not going to give in on any aspect of
the sanctions regime,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research
at the Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis in
Dubai, said by phone Nov. 11. “Despite negative growth and
indicators, this will not affect their path.”  Ahmadinejad Summoned  Iranian lawmakers will summon President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
to question him about the plunge in the value of the currency,
state-run Press TV reported Nov. 4. Ahmadinejad’s critics accuse
him of mismanaging the economy.  The sanctions have curbed Iran’s influence in the Middle
East. The Islamic republic counts Syrian President Bashar al- Assad, who is fighting to quell an uprising against his rule,
and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah among its allies.  “If they don’t have dollars, how can they give dollars to
Assad?” Emad Mostaque, London-based strategist at Religare
Hitchens Harrison, an emerging-market  investment adviser , said
in a phone interview today.  Iranian authorities have raised  interest rates  on deposits
and opened an exchange center to stabilize the foreign-exchange
market.  Tightening Needed  The government’s adoption of a “flexible  exchange rate ”
needs to be supported by “tighter monetary policy and policy
coordination to be able to contain the inflationary pressures
that might come from it, and to ensure that there is an orderly
foreign exchange market,” the IMF’s Ahmed said.  The government is also “consolidating spending in response
to lower oil export volumes,” the fund said in a report
released yesterday.  Iran is set to suffer its deepest recession since at least
1993, when the economy shrank by 1.6 percent,  according to IMF
data . The Economist Intelligence Unit, a London-based think
tank, estimates Iran’s foreign reserves will drop to $70 billion
this year from $80 billion in 2011.  The IMF plans to send a team to Iran in the first half of
next year for regular consultations and will evaluate the
country’s economy and foreign-currency reserves, Ahmed said.  No Delay  The fund has already sent a delegation to  Egypt  to review
an economic program linked to a $4.8 billion loan request as the
Arab country seeks to reduce its  budget deficit  and revive
investor confidence. The IMF team will remain until a
preliminary accord is reached, Prime Minister Hisham Qandil said
in an interview yesterday in Cairo.  The timetable for an agreement depends on “how quickly on
the Egyptian side feel they’re ready to move forward,” Ahmed
said. “There’s never going to be a delay that comes from our
unwillingness to move on it.”  The IMF has said the economic plan must enjoy broad
political support in the country and urged the government to
explain it to the public.  Iran earned a rare praise from the lender after a two-year
national debate to begin eliminating energy subsidies in
December 2010 and replace them with cash payments. The currency
crisis has prompted parliament to vote in favor of suspending
the second stage of the plan, the state-run Mehr news agency
reported today.  The halt means that poorer Iranians, who form Ahmadinejad’s
support base, now receive cash payments and partly-subsidized
products, while his opponents among the country’s middle class
are “bearing the brunt of the pain,” said Mostaque.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  