-- Japanese Stock Futures Little Changed as China Exports Grow
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-11T23:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/japanese-stock-futures-little-changed-as-china-exports-grow.html
Japanese stock futures were little
changed as investors awaited a report on economic expansion in
Japan and China’s export growth accelerated last month.
Australian shares fell.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Canon Inc. (7751) , a camera maker
that gets more than 80 percent of its sales outside Japan, slid
0.4 percent. QBE Insurance Group Ltd. sank 11 percent, the most
in nine months, leading declines on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index, after the nation’s largest insurer by market value said
it will issue debt due to losses from  hurricane Sandy  in the
U.S.  Lynas Corp. (LYC) , builder of the world’s largest rare-earth
refinery in Malaysia, fell 5.6 percent in Sydney after selling
A$150 million ($156 million) of new shares.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,750 in Chicago Nov. 9, down from 8,760 in
Osaka, Japan, as investors awaited a report on gross domestic
product in the world’s third-largest economy. They were bid in
the pre-market at 8,760 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time.
Australia’s benchmark index lost 0.4 percent today and New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.2 percent.  There is “room for equities to rise as further political
uncertainties in the U.S. and China are eventually cleared,”
said  Michael Kurtz , Hong-Kong based chief global equity
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s largest brokerage.
“China’s macro data will remain strong into 2013 as policy
easing continues.”  Japan will report third-quarter gross domestic product at
8:50 a.m. in Tokyo.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1
percent today. The  S&P 500  posted its biggest weekly decline
since June last week as President  Barack Obama ’s re-election set
up a budget showdown with the Republican-controlled  House of
Representatives .  China’s central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  highlighted
the effects on China of what he termed five years of crisis,
adding to officials’ cautions on the economic outlook even after
a rebound in exports. China’s export growth accelerated in
October and the nation’s trade surplus swelled to $32 billion,
the highest in almost four years, a customs report showed Nov.
10.  “Overall our macro-economic controls have been
successful,” Zhou said at a briefing in Beijing yesterday as
part of the Communist Party congress that begins a once-a-decade
leadership transition. “But of course, the financial crisis
didn’t finish and became a  European debt crisis , and therefore
we are still continuing to deal with it.”  China Investment  China will increase the quota for a program that allows
investors to raise  yuan  overseas and use the money to buy stocks
and bonds on domestic Chinese markets, according to the nation’s
securities regulator.  European finance ministers from the 17-member euro group
will meet at 5 p.m. in Brussels following a Nov. 8 agreement by
Greek lawmakers to make cuts in pensions and benefits. While the
ministers are unlikely to finalize an updated aid package for
Greece, a European official said Nov. 9 that they’ll find a way
to overcome a gap in the country’s financing this week.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index gained 11 percent through Nov.
9 from this year’s low on June 4 as central banks added stimulus
to spur growth and data showed a slowdown in China may be
bottoming. The index  traded  at 13.3 times estimated earnings as
of today, compared with 13.3 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and 12.1 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
climbed 0.1 percent on Nov. 9.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in New York gained 0.3 percent Nov. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  