-- Kenya Raiders Kill 10 Security Officers Pursuing Cattle Rustlers
-- B y   A b j a t a   K h a l i f
-- 2012-11-11T08:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/kenya-raiders-kill-10-security-officers-pursuing-cattle-rustlers.html
Gunmen killed at least 10 Kenyan
security personnel and injured another 20 officers pursuing
cattle rustlers in the north of the country, a police official
said.  The attack was carried out yesterday by about 600 men in
the village of Lomelok at Baragoi, about 342 kilometers (213
miles) north of the capital, Nairobi, John Mbijjiwe, the police
chief for Rift Valley province, said in a phone interview. At
least 10 police officers are missing, he said.  “The raiders waylaid our officers from various security
units pursuing cattle rustlers in Lomelok area and they sprayed
police lorries with bullets,” Mbijjiwe said. “The rescue is
ongoing.”  Kenya ’s arid northern region faces increasingly common
cattle raids, inter-communal conflicts over resources and
banditry, with such violence claiming more than 354 lives in
2009, according to the United Nations  Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs . Cattle raids increase with
the onset of the so-called short rains, which run from mid-
October to December, when pastoralists restock their herds and
rites of passage take place, according to its website.  The Baragoi area is inhabited by the Samburu and Turkana
pastoralist communities.  Selina Nasoli, a resident of Lomelok, said some of the
attackers were seen carrying away their casualties.  “We saw attackers carrying dead bodies and running away
from the battlefield, while their counterparts were engaging
Kenyan security and police reserves in fierce exchanges,”
Nasoli said in a phone interview.  Residents have begun fleeing the area in fear of renewed
attacks, Nasoli said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abjata Khalif in Garissa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 