-- Billionaire Sawiris Makes Offer for Telecom Italia Stake
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-11-12T13:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/naguib-sawiris-said-to-offer-to-buy-stake-in-telecom-italia-1-.html
Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ,
founder of  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) , offered to acquire
shares in  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , sending the former Italian phone
monopoly’s stock to its biggest increase in five months.  Telecom Italia received interest from Sawiris about an
investment “through underwriting of new stock,” the Milan-
based carrier said in a statement today. The offer is valued at
more than 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion), said a person familiar
with the matter, asking not to be identified because the
discussions are confidential.  Buying a stake in Italy’s biggest phone company would mark
Sawiris’s return into a market that has attracted investors such
as Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing  a year after the Egyptian
businessman sold mobile operator Wind Telecom SpA. In a
telephone interview today, the 58-year-old said his offer is
valid until the end of this year.  “I want to participate in a capital increase,” Sawiris
said. “Management said they want to study the proposal and will
revert back to me.”  Telecom Italia rose as much as 7.8 percent to 75 cents, the
steepest intraday increase since June 19. The shares traded up
4.6 percent at 72 cents as of 2:18 p.m. in Milan, giving the
company a market value of 13.5 billion euros. They reached a 15-
year low of 61 cents on July 24.  ‘New Resources’  Lazard Ltd. is advising Sawiris on Telecom Italia,
according to his spokeswoman Manal Abdel Hamid.  Calling Sawiris’s interest an initiative “described as
being aimed at bringing new resources to the company to be
dedicated to growth projects,” Telecom Italia said its board of
directors discussed the billionaire’s intention at a Nov. 8
meeting, and will evaluate after “necessary verification.”  “Telecom Italia is so distressed something has to
happen,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein In London. “M&A will drive the share price up and if
there is resistance to Sawiris, Telecom Italia may have no
choice but to do a deal with Cassa Depositi.”  Telecom Italia is considering a plan to spin off its fixed-
line network, and Chief Executive Officer Franco  Bernabe (BNBC)  has
said there is an “open dialogue” with state lender Cassa
Depositi e Prestiti SpA about a possible investment in the
network.  Telco Owners  A sale of new shares will dilute the stakes held by
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Mediobanca SpA and
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, which together own about 22 percent of
Telecom Italia through holding company Telco SpA.  Earlier this year, the owners renewed a shareholder
agreement until the end of February 2015, with a window to
request early withdrawal in September 2013. Telco lowered the
book value of its Telecom Italia holding to 1.50 euros per share
in May, still more than twice the current share price.  Telecom Italia on Nov. 9 reported a 13 percent decline in
net income to 681 million euros from a year earlier. The company
is suffering as competition and the region’s sovereign debt
crisis crimp sales and profit margins.  Sawiris last year merged Italy’s Wind with  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) 
This year, he added gold to his investments after agreeing to
buy Canada’s  La Mancha Resources Inc. (LMA)  The Sawiris family also
has interests in construction, cement, real estate and hotel
development.  Falling valuation of European telecommunications companies
has attracted other billionaire investors.  Carlos Slim , the
world’s richest man, this year acquired minority stakes in Royal
KPN NV and  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , the biggest carriers in the
Netherlands and Austria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  