-- Naguib Sawiris Is Said to Make Offer for Telecom Italia Stake
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-11-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/naguib-sawiris-is-said-to-make-offer-for-telecom-italia-stake.html
Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ,
founder of  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) , offered to purchase a
stake in  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , according to a person with direct
knowledge of the bid.  The offer is for a minority stake in Italy’s former phone
monopoly, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private. Sawiris “declined to comment about
rumors circulating in the media,” Orascom Telecom Media &
Technology Holding SAE spokeswoman Manal Abdel-Hamid said.
Telecom Italia officials didn’t return calls and e-mails.  Telecom Italia’s management board discussed a bid from
Sawiris at a meeting on Nov. 8,  Corriere  della Sera reported
Nov. 10. The offer is for as much as 5 billion euros ($6.4
billion), though the amount the businessman plans to invest
wasn’t discussed by management, according to the newspaper.
Milan-based Telecom Italia has a market value of almost 13
billion euros after falling 17 percent this year.  “Telecom Italia is so distressed something has to
happen,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein In London. “M&A will drive the share price up and if
there is resistance to Sawiris, Telecom Italia may have no
choice but to do a deal with Cassa Depositi.”  Telecom Italia is considering a plan to spin off its fixed-
line network, and Chief Executive Officer Franco  Bernabe (BNBC)  has
said there is an “open dialogue” with state lender Cassa
Depositi e Prestiti SpA about a possible investment in the
network. Buying a stake in Italy’s biggest phone company would
mark Sawiris’s return into the market a year after he sold
mobile operator Wind Telecom SpA.  Shares Fall  Telecom Italia on Nov. 9 reported a 13 percent decline in
net income to 681 million euros from a year earlier. The company
is suffering as competition and the region’s sovereign debt
crisis crimp sales and profit margins.  The shares  gained  3.7 percent to 69.1 cents in Milan
trading on Nov. 9. The shares traded at a 15-year low of 61
cents on July 24.  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Mediobanca SpA
and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA together own about 22 percent of Telecom
Italia through holding company Telco SpA.  Sawiris offered “slightly” more than 1 billion euros for
Telefonica SA’s stake in Telco, an offer that was rebuffed by
the Spanish phone company’s Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta, Il Sole 24 Ore reported Oct. 16.  Sawiris last year merged Italy’s Wind with  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) 
This year, he added gold to his investments after agreeing to
buy Canada’s  La Mancha Resources Inc. (LMA)  The Sawiris family also
has interests in construction, fertilizer, cement, real estate
and hotel development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  