-- Obama Pledges to Improve Veterans’ Access to Jobs, Health Care
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-11-11T21:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/obama-pledges-to-improve-veterans-access-to-jobs-health-care.html
President  Barack Obama  pledged to
improve veterans’ access to health care and jobs during a speech
in honor of Veterans Day today at the Arlington National
Cemetery in  Virginia .  “After a decade of war, our heroes are coming home,”
Obama said, following a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of
the Unknowns. “No one who fights for this country overseas
should ever have to fight for a job, or a roof over their head,
or the care that they have earned when they come home.”  Obama said he will continue to support the Post-9/11 GI
bill, which provides financial support for education to
individuals who served after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11,
2001. The program Joining Forces, headed by first lady Michelle Obama and  Jill Biden , the vice president’s wife, has helped to
hire or train 125,000 veterans and military spouses, Obama said.  The jobless rate for veterans who have served since the
attacks was 12.1 percent last year, up from 11.5 percent in
2010, according to Department of Labor. The unemployment rate of
all veterans in the U.S. was 6.3 percent in October.  Obama also said he “won’t let up” in addressing the
backlog of disability claims filed by American veterans. “No
veteran should have to wait months or years for the benefits
that you’ve earned,” he said.  Following his speech, Obama greeted a crowd gathered at a
part of the cemetery used for those who died in Iraq and
 Afghanistan . Michelle Obama, Biden and his wife also attended
the event. Earlier in the day, the Obamas held a breakfast for
veterans and their families at the White House.  Veterans Day , held each year on Nov. 11, is the official
holiday to honor men and women who have served in the U.S. armed
forces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington D.C. at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  