-- Obama Needs Rainmaker to Steer Around Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-11-11T16:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/obama-needs-rainmaker-to-steer-around-fiscal-cliff.html
There are striking parallels between
 Barack Obama ’s re-election victory last week and that of  George W. Bush  in 2004.  Both incumbents began with mediocre job-approval ratings;
each had a political albatross: the  Iraq war  for Bush, the
economy this time; and both managed to define the race and the
opposition before their slow-to-react challengers could. They
both narrowly won, with about the same popular vote margin,
though Obama did much better in the Electoral College.  The architects of this year’s successful campaign,  David Axelrod ,  David Plouffe  and  Jim Messina , emulated the strategy
and success of Ken Mehlman and Karl Rove eight years earlier.  The danger for Obama is that the parallels will continue to
apply after Nov. 6. Failing to appreciate the need to change
internally and adopt bipartisan compromise, Bush’s second term
was a failure. Successful second-term presidents --  Ronald Reagan , for example -- realize the new political calculations
and govern differently.  Two signs of trouble for the incumbent several months from
now: If the narrative on filling key posts at State, Treasury
and the White House centers around Obama’s comfort level, and if
the political base, which re-elected him, isn’t complaining.  The fiscal issue -- taxes, spending and debt -- is the
gateway through which all subsequent actions have to follow.  If the president and Congress cut a credible deal, a lot of
options flow for both parties; if they don’t, the next two years
will be like the last two.  Political Chips  The Democratic White House and Republican House both
believe they have political chips. A cocky post-election Team
Obama revels in a commanding victory; this evokes shades of the
false mandate that George W. Bush and  Dick Cheney  claimed.  House Republicans  retained almost all their seats, brushing
back attacks for their positions on Medicare and tax cuts for
the rich. They have no fear of this White House.  Democrats say they’re willing to go over the so-called
fiscal cliff and allow all the Bush-era tax cuts to expire and,
if they can’t de-link them, drastic automatic  spending  cutbacks
to take effect. Fears of an economic cataclysm would force
Republicans to eventually back down, they say.  Privately, more than a few Republicans say “bring it on.”
If a showdown forces a severe economic downturn, each side will
blame the other; ultimately, failure to act would hurt the party
controlling the White House, they figure, and the political
cycle points to Republican gains in 2014. This would be
reckless, not irrational.  The only way to avoid this outcome would be major cutbacks
in Medicare and tax increases exceeding the $800 billion that
House Speaker  John Boehner  was willing to negotiate a year and a
half ago.  On  taxes , if Republicans, insist that the top rate can’t
exceed the current 35 percent, they have to give a lot on
loophole closers as well as on increasing capital-gains taxes,
and/or the estate tax, both of which primarily benefit the
wealthy.  At the beginning of the second  Reagan administration , the
president outsourced economics to his new Treasury secretary,
Jim Baker, and his deputy, Richard Darman. Over a year and a
half, they brilliantly negotiated a tax-reform measure that cut
rates and broadened the base, but also raised capital-gains
taxes and corporate taxes.  Medicare Cuts  Today’s Republicans say they’ll never cut a deal unless
they get permanent changes in health-care costs, especially
Medicare. They will push to introduce a system of vouchers or
premium support, as advocated by  Mitt Romney ’s running mate,
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan . That’s a nonstarter
for Democrats, who trashed the idea throughout the autumn
campaign.  That forces the White House to devise serious alternatives
such as significantly enhancing competitive bidding, cracking
down on overpayments, changing co-payment arrangements, reducing
benefits for wealthier retirees and raising eligibility ages.  The president can rely on smart political sharpshooters and
experienced policy experts, including White House Chief of Staff
Jack Lew and National Economic Council Director  Gene Sperling .
He’s had those assets for the past several years, without moving
Republicans.  He needs a game changer, a major figure with influence in
the business community who could help pressure recalcitrant
Republicans.  The reality is that it’s Republicans who are most dug in
and resistant to the need for a sensible compromise. The exit
polls in the Nov. 6 elections showed that 60 percent of voters
rejected the Republican argument that tax increases on the
wealthy are a bad idea.  One possibility is to enlist as a special negotiator the
man who helped bail out the president this fall, former
President  Bill Clinton . There is no one who can better frame the
economic/fiscal issue or knows more about dealing with the
Republicans, who told us all year how fondly they remembered the
Clinton years.  Obama confidants will argue you can’t outsource a major
presidential responsibility. Some already resent the narrative
that Clinton helped turn the election for the president.  The rhetoric from both sides in recent days on avoiding the
fiscal cliff is positive, and rosier than the reality. If the
president sticks with the regular order, look for no deals or a
small-ball deal; the issue then will hang over his entire second
term.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 