-- QBE Plunges as Sandy Dents Profit Margin Forecast: Sydney Mover
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-11-12T06:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/qbe-plunges-as-sandy-dents-profit-margin-forecast-sydney-mover.html
QBE Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE) ,
 Australia ’s biggest insurer, fell the  most  in 10 months after
saying claims from U.S. superstorm Sandy will push its insurance
margin lower and dent full-year profit.  The company’s insurance profit margin will drop to around 8
percent this year, down from an August forecast for better than
12 percent, as losses from Sandy total $350 million to $450
million, it said in a statement today. Profit in the year to
Dec. 31 will be in excess of $1 billion, it said. The  shares 
fell 8.3 percent to A$11.80 at the close of trading in Sydney,
the most since Jan. 12.  “QBE was always going to stand to lose the most of the
Australian insurers from  Hurricane Sandy  given their large
exposure in the U.S. overall,” Ben Le Brun, market analyst at
OptionsXpress in Sydney, said in an e-mail. “I certainly expect
that the fallout from Hurricane Sandy will eat into QBE’s
profitability for this year.”  Property-casualty insurers may face claims of as much as
$20 billion from Sandy, the biggest Atlantic storm in history,
according to an estimate from catastrophe risk modeler Eqecat
Inc. For QBE, the downgrade comes at a time when it is
recovering from record payouts generated in 2011 after
earthquakes in  Japan  and  New Zealand , and Australia’s costliest
floods ever.  ‘Disappointing News’  “It is frustrating to be reporting disappointing news at a
time when the vast majority of our ongoing businesses are
performing in line with, or better than, expectations,” John Neal, chief executive officer of QBE, said in the statement.
“Superstorm Sandy will prove to have been one of the most
devastating storms in recent U.S. history and the recorded loss
of life is incredibly distressing.”  Ratings company  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its outlook for
QBE to “negative” from “stable” following the company’s
statement.  The Sydney-based company said it plans to raise $500
million and has received commitments for a subordinated
convertible  debt  issue.  Five-year credit-default swaps on QBE’s debt surged 38
basis points to 262.5, set for the biggest increase since Jan.
12 and the highest close since Sept. 6, Citigroup Inc. and CMA
data show.  QBE increased its allowance for risk and catastrophe claims
to 12 percent of net earned premium for the year, from 10.5
percent earlier. This includes allowances for higher-than-
expected claims related to drought losses in its U.S. crop
business; individual risk and catastrophe claims of about $600
million, $100 million higher than earlier expected; and an
allowance for additional losses of $357 million for November and
December, it said.  Catastrophe Claims  The group will also hold a further $125 million to protect
against uncertainties in its estimates of outstanding claim
provisions, it said.  “The higher volume of large individual and catastrophe
claims revealed generally and the large general increases in
provisioning around prior year North American claims and risk
margins have surprised the market,”  Angus Gluskie , managing
director at White Funds Management, which oversees more than
$350 million, said in an e-mail. “Most of the adverse
developments relate to the U.S., so there are no immediate
implications for Australian insurers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malcolm Scott in Sydney at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  