-- Retail Sales Probably Dropped in October: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-11-11T05:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/retail-sales-probably-dropped-in-october-u-s-economy-preview.html
Sales at U.S. retailers probably
fell in October for the first time in four months as consumers
in the Northeast stayed away from auto dealers and shopping
centers before and after superstorm Sandy, economists said
before a report this week.  The projected 0.2 percent drop in purchases would follow a
1.1 percent gain in September, according to the  median  forecast
of 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before Nov. 14 figures
from the Commerce Department. Other reports may show the cost of
living climbed more slowly and factory output rose.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are among companies
saying the drop in demand will probably be temporary as brighter
job prospects, rising home prices and improving finances boost
household confidence heading into the  holiday shopping season .
Sustained gains in  consumer spending , which accounts for about
70 percent of the economy, are needed to overcome a slowdown in
business investment.  “As long as the labor-market recovery is ongoing, then
we’re going to see unremarkable, but steady, growth in consumer
spending,” said Guy Berger, a U.S. economist at RBS Securities
Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Consumers are feeling better.”  The slowdown comes after retail sales in September and
August marked the best back-to-back showing since late 2010.  Growing confidence may be playing a role. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan  consumer sentiment  gauge climbed
to a five-year high this month, a report last week showed.  September Sales  Part of that jump in purchases was the result of households
snapping up Apple Inc.’s new iPhone 5. Support also came from
car and light truck sales, which climbed in September to a 14.9
million pace, the fastest in more than four years, according to
figures from Ward’s Automotive Group.  Those gains weren’t repeated in October, when Sandy, the
biggest Atlantic storm in history, prevented potential shoppers
from getting to stores. Auto demand dropped to a 14.2 million
pace last month after Sandy slammed the East Coast during the
auto industry’s busiest time of the month. Carmakers have said
those sales should be made up by the end of the year.  Some retailers reported a pickup in October demand even
with the adverse weather. Same-store sales at Macy’s Inc., the
second-biggest U.S. department-store chain, rose 4.1 percent,
topping the 4 percent average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Retail Metrics Inc. Kohl’s Corp.’s same-store sales climbed 3.3
percent, beating estimates for a 0.8 percent gain.  Gainers, Losers  The storm also didn’t affect all retailers the same way.
Stockpiling before Sandy struck probably boosted sales at
grocery, drug and home-improvement stores, just as it hurt
demand at department stores and merchants in malls, according to
economists at Morgan Stanley in  New York .  Economists project the retail sales category used to
calculate gross domestic product, which excludes auto dealers,
building-material stores and service stations, will show a 0.4
percent gain in October following a 0.9 percent increase the
prior month.  The  Consumer Discretionary Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLY) , which
includes companies like Tiffany & Co. and Best Buy Co., has
 climbed  about 16 percent this year, as spending has advanced.  Gains in household purchases will also help manufacturing,
which is receiving fewer  orders  from business investment cools
and economies in Europe and  Asia  slow. Output at the nation’s
factories, mines and utilities probably rose 0.2 percent in
October after a 0.4 percent gain the previous month, economists
forecast a Federal Reserve report will show on Nov. 16.  Gas Prices  A retreat in gasoline prices may also be helping to
underpin household confidence and spending. On Nov. 15, a Labor
Department report may show the consumer-price index rose 0.1
percent in October after a 0.6 percent gain the prior month,
according to the survey median, restrained by a drop in fuel.  The cost of a gallon of regular gasoline at the pump
averaged $3.51 on Oct. 31, a three-month low and down from a
recent peak of $3.87 in mid September.  As the holiday shopping seasons begins,  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) ’s
retail customers are “ looking forward to a good year,” David Hargreaves, chief operating officer of the Pawtucket, Rhode
Island-based toymaker, said during a call with analysts on Oct.
22. “Certainly consumer demand has held up pretty well. I think
they’re sort of cautiously optimistic.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  