-- Top-Ranked Djokovic, No. 2 Federer to Square Off for ATP
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-12T00:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/roger-federer-defeats-andy-murray-faces-djokovic-in-atp.html
The 2012 men’s tennis circuit will
finish today with top-ranked Novak Djokovic and No. 2 Roger Federer squaring off for the title at the  ATP World Tour Finals .  Federer overcame a slow start to beat Britain’s Andy Murray
7-6 (7-5), 6-2 in front of a sellout crowd at London’s O2 arena
last night to reach the title match for the eighth time in 11
appearances at the season-ending championships.  Serbia’s Djokovic earlier recovered from a set and a break
down to beat  Argentina ’s Juan Martin del Potro 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 and
remain the only unbeaten player at the eight-man event.  “The tournament’s not over yet,” Federer said in a news
conference. “It is a big opportunity playing the last match of
the season, and facing off against Novak is always special,
especially here at the world tour finals.”  The Swiss, at age 31 the oldest man in the field, leads
Djokovic  16-12  in career meetings and is trying to win a record-
extending seventh ATP Finals title. They’re split 2-2 this
season; Djokovic won clay semifinals in  Rome  and at Roland
Garros before Federer beat him in the final four at Wimbledon
and on a hard court in the Cincinnati final.  “For both of us, it’s pretty straightforward,” Federer
added. “We’ve got to press out the last juice that’s left in
our body and make it a successful year end.”  Some of Federer’s most significant defeats to Djokovic came
in the U.S. Open semifinals in 2010 and 2011 after having match
points. Last year’s loss prompted him to take six weeks off
after New York to recover mentally. He went on to win a record
sixth ATP Finals title, beating  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga.  Natural Attackers  “We always have close matches, especially the last 10, 15
matches have been very back and forth,” Federer said of
Djokovic. “We both play aggressive tennis. We’re natural
attackers. That makes for exciting tennis.”  After being upstaged in 2011 by Djokovic, who won three
majors and took over the No. 1 spot, Federer peaked again at
Wimbledon this year. He reduced Murray to tears on his way to a
men’s record-extending 17th Grand Slam championship in July.  His first major title in more than two years was followed
by a silver medal at the  London  Olympics and he completed a
record 302nd week at No. 1 before being knocked off the top spot
by Djokovic this week. Federer will end the season inside the
top two for the ninth time in 10 years.  As at the four Grand Slams, Federer’s performance at the
ATP Finals is unrivaled in the men’s game: a record 42 wins in
11 appearances and an unprecedented six titles. Ivan Lendl and
Pete Sampras are next with five championships.  Last Match  Djokovic, whose only previous title at the event came in
2008, said he would give it his all in the final ATP World Tour
match of the year.  “Knowing it’s the last match of the season, I’m really
going to try to give my best physically and mentally to
eventually try to get the trophy,” Djokovic said.  Djokovic, who won all his round-robin matches before
defeating  Del Potro , added that he’s feeling physically fresher
at the end of this season compared to the last two years.  “That is very encouraging obviously, very positive before
you get to play a top player,” he said. “That was a big
difference this year and made me be more prepared for all the
matches and play a more aggressive style of the game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at London’s O2 arena through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  