-- Samaras Wins Approval of Greek 2013 Budget to Secure Aid
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n ,   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-11-11T23:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/samaras-wins-approval-of-greek-2013-budget-to-secure-aid.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
garnered the support of enough lawmakers from his three-party
coalition to secure approval for the 2013 budget, a plan that
aims to unlock bailout funds and avert a financial collapse that
could drive the country from the euro.  A total of 167 lawmakers in the 300-strong chamber backed
the budget, with 128 voting against and four saying only that
they were “present,” parliament speaker Evangelos Meimarakis
said in comments broadcast live on Vouli TV.  “We’ve taken the second decisive step with even greater
unity,” Samaras said. “What we’ll see from now on is recovery
and growth.”  The 2013 fiscal plan, which forecasts a deficit of 5.2
percent of gross domestic product and a sixth year of
contraction, is designed to regain the confidence of its euro-
area and International Monetary Fund creditors. Euro-area
finance ministers are due today to meet to discuss Greek
developments as Samaras presses European Union leaders to
release a 31.5 billion-euro ($40 billion) bailout tranche.  The vote was the second in five days after lawmakers
approved an austerity bill on Nov. 8 containing economic reforms
and 13.5 billion euros of austerity measures demanded by
 Greece ’s creditors.  The budget sees Greece’s economy shrinking 4.5 percent next
year after contracting 3.8 percent this year. General government
debt will reach 189 percent of GDP next year, or 346.2 billion
euros, from 176 percent this year, according to the document.  Peaceful Assembly  At least 15,000 people gathered peacefully outside
parliament before the budget vote to demonstrate opposition to
the second round of austerity measures this year.  Democratic Left, a coalition partner, voted in favor of the
budget after refusing to support the austerity bill because it
contained changes to labor laws it says have no fiscal benefit.  Delays in approving Greece’s next tranche, which has been
frozen since June, reflect tensions within the Greek coalition
and between Greece and the “troika” representing creditors.
Donor countries such as  Germany  also need national parliamentary
endorsement before giving the green light for the next payments
from a total of 240 billion euros pledged to Greece since 2010.  Debt Sustainability  “Greece will avoid a default this time around, but the
critical issue of debt sustainability will stay with us for at
least another year,”  Erik Nielsen , chief economist at Unicredit
Bank AG, said in a note. “There is no doubt that the present
situation is uncomfortable for everybody.”  Samaras has pressed for two extra years, until 2016, for
Greece to meet deficit-reduction targets imposed by the troika.
Creditors’ calculations are assuming a two-year extension, a
European official said on Nov. 9, while declining to say whether
it will be approved.  A variety of options are under consideration for plugging
the financing hole that an extension would open up, the official
said. While engineering a buyback of Greek debt at depressed
prices is one of them, it is “technically and financially
infinitely more complicated than you would ever imagine,” the
official said.  Solutions hinge on when Greece’s debt will become
“sustainable,” previously defined as dropping to 120 percent
of gross domestic product by 2020. The official said a decade is
now the rough timetable, implying that the sustainability target
may be pushed out to 2022 or 2023.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  