-- SAS Says Cost-Reduction Program Won’t Disrupt Flights
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-11-11T14:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/sas-says-cost-reduction-program-won-t-disrupt-flights.html
SAS Group (SAS) , the Nordic region’s
biggest airline, said passengers won’t be affected by the
company’s soon-to-be-announced cost-reduction program.  “We can safely say that the cost plan that will be
introduced tomorrow won’t disrupt flight plans,” Trine Kromann-
Mikkelsen, a Copenhagen-based SAS spokeswoman, said. “There
won’t be changes to the traffic program before the plan is
introduced nor after.”  SAS will shed several hundred jobs and will lower salaries
by eliminating some managers and creating new management
positions at lower wages, a person with knowledge of the
situation said. The program includes more than 1,000 job cuts
and wage reductions of about 15 percent, Danish broadcaster TV2
reported today, without saying how it obtained the information.  SAS, which hasn’t posted an annual  profit  since 2007, said
Oct. 30 it was finalizing a plan to sell 3 billion kronor ($450
million) in assets and cut the same amount from costs. The
Stockholm-based airline is deepening a savings program that
already aims to shave 5 percent from costs and boost earnings by
5 billion kronor in 2012 and 2013. SAS has cut 300
administrative jobs this year.  “SAS’s wages have always been too high and the company has
been too inflexible to adjust,” Jacob Pedersen, an analyst with
 Sydbank A/S (SYDB)  in Aabenraa,  Denmark , said in a phone interview.
“SAS has been facing these cost problems for a very long
time.”  Asset Sales  The carrier seeks to sell its ground service, which
includes baggage handling and check-in, as well as properties it
owns, said the person, who asked not to be identified discussing
plans that have not yet been announced. Final deals on the sales
have yet to be reached, the person said.  Swedish newspaper  Expressen  today reported, without citing
anyone, that SAS passengers may become stuck worldwide if the
company fails to come up with a solution before tomorrow.  Rival European carriers are also scaling back.
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA said Nov. 9 it will
eliminate 4,500 jobs at its Spanish unit Iberia, or more than
one-fifth of the total.  Air France-KLM Group,  Europe ’s biggest airline, said on
Oct. 31 it intends to scrap 1,300 positions at its Dutch unit in
addition to 5,000 already being eliminated within the larger
French business. Deutsche Lufthansa AG is cutting 3,500
administrative posts and as many as 1,000 catering positions.
Lufthansa’s Swiss Air unit will cut as many as 100 jobs,
SonntagsZeitung reported today, citing Susanne Muehlemann, a
spokeswoman.  Credit Lines  SAS, part-owned by the Swedish, Norwegian and Danish
governments, said last month it’s in talks with banks to extend
4.7 billion kronor of credit lines expiring in June and that the
new savings plan “is an essential part of the negotiations.”
While the dialogue has been constructive, lenders are concerned
about the history of losses, a person familiar with the
situation said at the time.  SAS, which is struggling with high fuel costs and
competition from carriers including  Norwegian Air Shuttle (NAS)  ASA,
has  dropped  19 percent this year, valuing the company at 2.12
billion kronor.  Employees at SAS’s Norwegian airline Wideroe have proposed
to buy the unit from the parent company. The proposal envisioned
local Norwegian investors taking a two-thirds stake in the
enterprise, pilot Ola Giaever, who’s leading the effort, said
Oct. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  