-- Shuaa Expects to Narrow Loss as Dubai Investment Bank Cuts Costs
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2012-11-11T05:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/shuaa-expects-to-narrow-loss-as-dubai-investment-bank-cuts-costs.html
Shuaa Capital PSC, (SHUAA)  the Dubai-based
investment bank that posted five consecutive quarters of losses,
expects to narrow loss this year as it cuts costs.  The estimated loss will be between 40 million dirhams ($11
million) and 60 million dirhams and it will be between a profit
of 6 million dirhams and a loss of 18 million dirhams next year,
the  company said  in a statement today. Shuaa posted a loss of
294 million dirhams last year, according data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Shuaa,  owned 48 percent  by Dubai Banking Group, has moved
away from retail brokerage and scaled back research operations
after markets in its home base declined and losses mounted. The
bank plans to increase lending to small and medium-sized
businesses and high net worth individuals to improve profit
margins and reduce swings in earnings, it said last month.  Third-quarter loss  narrowed to 14 million dirhams from 156
million loss a year earlier, while total revenue rose to 35
million dirhams from 16 million dirhams. Expenses dropped to 48
million dirhams from 93 million dirhams.  “The third quarter results prove that we took the right
decisions to reduce our cost base against the uncertain market
environment, exit non-core businesses and investments, focus on
liquidity management, and reduce the volatility in our asset
base,” Executive Chairman Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Al Maktoum said
in the statement.  Shuaa has exited retail brokerage operations in  Saudi
Arabia ,  Egypt , Jordan and  Turkey  and also cut jobs in its
corporate functions as it seeks to return to profit. Former ABN
Amro banker Colin Macdonald replaced Michael Philipp as chief
executive officer in April.  “Management will seek to continue to drive down operating
expenses” toward a target cost-to-income ratio of 75 percent by
the end of 2014 and return on equity of 4.4 percent in 2014 and
7.5 percent in 2016, according to the statement today.  The shares  gained 8.7 percent this year compared with a 20
percent advance for the benchmark  DFM General Index. (DFMGI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  