-- U.S. Regional Clashes Behind Obama Versus Romney
-- B y   C o l i n   W o o d a r d
-- 2012-11-11T23:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/u-s-regional-clashes-behind-obama-versus-romney.html
Last week’s election demonstrated,
once again, that America’s most essential and abiding divisions
are not between red states and blue states, conservatives and
liberals, or even the faithful and the secular. They’re
cultural, the result of differences that can be traced all the
way back to the rival colonial projects established on our
continent three and four centuries ago.  Our political divisions are rooted in 11 disparate regional
cultures, as I explained in a book that was  excerpted  on
Bloomberg View last year. These regions -- separate nations,
really, including Yankeedom, Tidewater, New Netherland, New
France, Deep South, Greater Appalachia, the Midlands, First
Nation, the Far West, the Left Coast, El Norte -- have been
hiding in plain sight throughout our history. You see them
outlined on linguists’ dialect maps, cultural anthropologists’
maps of material culture regions, and maps of religious regions,
political geography and historical patterns of settlement.  The  fault lines  could be seen throughout this year’s
presidential contest. Although both nominees happened to hail
from Yankeedom, they presented competing interpretations of the
American dream rooted in regional philosophies.  Godly Community  President  Barack Obama  explicitly embraced the notion that
we are all in the same boat, that we will succeed or fail as a
community, that the successful ought to make sacrifices for the
common good. On the stump and in his victory speech, he
presented these as American ideals, and they are in the sense
that they are the central founding principles of Yankeedom, the
section of the country colonized by the early Puritans and their
descendants. The Puritans believed they were God’s chosen people
and, as such, would be rewarded or punished collectively. They
came to this continent to create a religious utopia, a “light on
the hill,” a godly community to serve as an example for the
world. Ever since, Yankees have had faith in their ability to
engineer a more perfect society through public institutions.
Their culture, more than any other, has prized the common good
above individual aspiration, often celebrating self-denial as a
virtue.  Many other, equally American cultures look upon this
philosophy with skepticism, even revulsion, and none more so
than the people of Greater Appalachia. This nation was founded
in the early 18th century by wave upon wave of rough, bellicose
settlers from the war-ravaged borderlands of Northern Ireland,
northern  England  and the Scottish lowlands, whose culture
included a warrior ethic and deep commitments to individual
liberty. Here “freedom” is broadly understood to mean having the
fewest possible encumbrances on individual action. If Yankee
ideology seeks to make a community free of tyrants, Appalachia’s
sticks up for each person’s freedom to become a tyrant.  In this clash of values, the other American nations fall on
a spectrum between the Yankee and Appalachian poles. The Yankee
point of view is generally embraced on the Left Coast (which was
partially founded by Yankee missionaries), and is begrudgingly
accepted within New Netherland, the densely populated, Dutch-
founded region around  New York  City, a competitive, commercial
trading society that long ago accepted that it can function only
with a considerable amount of shared enterprise.  The Appalachian view is subscribed to in the Deep South (a
stratified, oligarchical society founded by English slave owners
from Barbados) and the Far West (whose 19th-century colonists
had, almost by necessity, a libertarian streak). Two other
significant nations -- the Midlands and El Norte -- are more
ambivalent and have often served as kingmakers in deciding
national contests over the issue.  Ambitious Energy  Mitt Romney , the Republican presidential challenger, is a
Yankee from Michigan and  Massachusetts , who nevertheless chose
to run on a platform emphasizing individual liberty, and to
select as his running mate a devotee of  Ayn Rand . Romney’s stump
speeches emphasized the need to curtail government intrusion and
unlock the energy of individual ambition. Taxes on the wealthy
and unspecified public services and programs were to be reduced
and military spending increased. This was a pitch to the
Appalachian ideal, and an effort to rally the individualistic
regional cultures around his banner. (One reason this was
sometimes a tough sell was that Romney himself is actually a
Yankee who, as governor of Massachusetts, had spearheaded
government-mandated health-care reforms, and also an adherent of
a Yankee-founded religion -- Mormonism -- which shares the
utopian and communitarian impulses of the early Puritans.)  With this background in mind, the  county-by-county results 
from Tuesday’s election offer few surprises. Obama dominated
Yankeedom, sweeping 58 of 63 New England counties, and
dominating the Yankee-founded tier of the Northeast, from
upstate New York and the Western Reserve of  Ohio  to northern
 Illinois  and the Upper Great Lakes states. He routed Romney in
New Netherland and won 39 of 53 counties on the Left Coast. Add
the overwhelming support of the regions first colonized by Spain
(where voters were unimpressed with Romney’s immigration
policies) and you have the “blue” coalition that has supported
the Democratic candidate for six presidential elections running.  Romney won most of the votes in Appalachia, including the
southern tiers of Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and
Missouri, the western swath of  Virginia  and  North Carolina , and
central and northeast Texas. He took all the states dominated by
the Deep South save perhaps  Florida , plus 30 of the 45 Electoral
College votes in states controlled by the Far West. Here lie the
remnants of the “red” coalition that has reliably supported
Republicans for six straight elections.  As neither of these coalitions constitutes an Electoral
College majority, recent presidential contests have been won or
lost in the two big “swing regions.” Until 2008, the winning
strategy was to win over hearts and minds in the Quaker-founded
Midlands, a region that has always been a multiethnic,
multireligious mosaic, skeptical of both government social
engineering and winner-take-all economics. Win even a slim
majority in the Midlands, and Pennsylvania, Ohio and Missouri
might be yours, and with them the Electoral College.  Electoral Firewall  In 2008, Obama narrowly won this region. Despite the state
of the economy, it looks as if he may have done so again, though
largely because of Romney’s opposition to bailing out the
automotive industry. The Midlands will remain a battleground --
and an Electoral College firewall against extremism -- in 2016
and beyond.  But now Obama and the Democrats have opened up a new front
in what had long been a conservative, individualistic bastion.
For more than three centuries, the Tidewater has been reliably
conservative, a region founded by the younger sons of English
gentry and intended to replicate the genteel aristocratic world
of the English countryside. (Take “Downton Abbey,” substitute
 Thomas Jefferson  for Lord Grantham and slaves for the house
servants and you get the general idea.) The gentlemen who first
ran the region -- encompassing the Chesapeake country, lower
 Delaware  and much of eastern North Carolina -- believed in the
common good, and thought themselves the natural arbiters of what
that was. At the time of the Revolution, the Tidewater was the
most powerful U.S. region, but its influence in national affairs
has since dwindled, largely because its westward expansion was
blocked by mountain ranges and the Appalachian people who
occupied them.  In recent decades, Tidewater’s political culture has been
eroded and reshaped by the federal halos around Washington,
D.C., and the naval base at Norfolk, Virginia, and the millions
of outlanders who live and work within them. We saw the effect
in 2008, when Obama won both Virginia and North Carolina. We saw
it again this week, when Obama’s overwhelming strength in the
Tidewater again won him Old Dominion. He lost North Carolina
only because of his weakness in that state’s (larger)
Appalachian sections, and was competitive even in the old
plantation counties of southern Maryland and Delaware. We saw
this effect in other races as well, including Virginia’s  Senate
contest , in which Democrat  Tim Kaine ’s strong support in the
populous Tidewater was enough to overwhelm George Allen’s 2- and
3-to-1 margins in most of the state’s Appalachian counties.  Looking at the country through a regional lens, Democrats
have good reason to be optimistic that they will keep control of
the White House and Senate in coming years. The population of
the Spanish borderlands is growing. Tidewater is joining the
“blue” coalition, putting an end to the notion of a “solid
south.” Even the Far West -- always a weak partner in the “red”
coalition on account of its socially libertarian outlook -- is
in play, with Colorado and Nevada supporting Obama two years in
a row. Republicans ignore these developments -- and the true
regional map -- at their peril.  (Colin Woodard is the author of “ American Nations: A
History of the Eleven Rival Regional Cultures of North America .”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  re-examining the cost of
federal flood insurance  and on  ending the opacity at the
European Central Bank ;  Mark Buchanan  on the  limits to economic
growth ; William D. Cohan on  Obama’s next economic team ;  Noah
Feldman  on how  same-sex marriage and marijuana votes  can
influence the  Supreme Court ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  Obama’s ideal
fiscal-cliff point man ;  Simon Johnson  on  candidates for Treasury
secretary .  To contact the writer of this article:
Colin Woodard at  colin@colinwoodard.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 