-- U.S. Taxpayers Need Break From Underwater Flood Insurance
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-11T23:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/u-s-taxpayers-need-break-from-underwater-flood-insurance.html
Hurricane Sandy  is forcing a re-
evaluation of  climate change , seawalls and the nation’s power
grid.  It should also prompt a re-examination of federal flood
insurance. The  program  gives unneeded subsidies to those with
expensive beach properties, skews incentives and repeatedly
needs taxpayer bailouts.  Congress established the program three years after 1965’s
Hurricane Betsy, which hit  New Orleans  and was the first storm
to inflict more than $1 billion in damage. The aim was to avoid
the repeated and enormous costs of providing disaster aid.
Private insurers wouldn’t underwrite flood coverage; everyone
living in a flood plain is a potential claimant. The government
decided it had no choice but to create a market from scratch.  Today, about 90 private companies sell the policies while
the  Federal Emergency Management Agency  manages the $1.27
 trillion  of insurance in force. Homeowners can insure their
properties for up to $350,000, businesses for $1 million.
Premiums are lower than they would be based on market prices
because of direct subsidies and the government backstop.  Even under the most optimistic scenario, the program
charges too little for coverage. One 2010  study  found that if
there were no unusual weather events, the main cause of major
flooding, it would take 100 years for the program to earn its
way out of the deficit accumulated from past floods.  Credit Line  Sandy might bring in as many as 300,000 claims. After last
year’s  Hurricane Irene , a less-violent storm, the average payout
was about $30,000. Back-of-the-envelope math suggests a $9
billion hit to the program. And that could be a conservative
estimate given Sandy’s force and the high property values in
 hard-hit  New York and  New Jersey , where the program underwrites
 $96 billion  of coverage.  Claims of that scope would blow through the program’s $20
billion  credit line  with the  U.S. Treasury , which has already
been tapped for almost $18 billion thanks mostly to  Hurricane
Katrina .  Flood insurance also poses a moral hazard, encouraging
people to engage in riskier behavior because they don’t bear all
the costs. This has led to an explosion of development in flood-
prone areas, particularly the wetlands so vital to protecting
coastal areas from lethal storm surges. It’s no surprise that
Florida, with its vast coastline, is where more than a third of
the 5.6 million flood policies have been sold.  This year, Congress reauthorized the program for five years
with the goal of putting it on a sounder financial footing.
Coverage of vacation homes and properties with repeated claims
will be phased out; rates will increase to help build a  reserve
fund  to absorb losses; and FEMA has been instructed to develop
more accurate maps of flood plains.  This was a step in the right direction. But the revisions
aren’t enough amid a changing climate that might make big storms
(and big flood-insurance claims) more frequent.  The reserve fund the program is supposed to accumulate is
pegged at 1 percent of the flood insurance in force. An average
hurricane making landfall in Florida could wipe that out. To be
effective, the reserve would have to be a good deal bigger.  The government also needs to do a better job of spreading
risk. The  insurance industry  is far more sophisticated than it
was 40 years ago and has developed deep markets for reinsurance.
Reinsurers basically sell insurance to insurers. This helps
protect a company -- or in this case, the flood insurance
program -- in the event of catastrophic-loss claims.  Reflecting Risks  Premiums not only need to rise, but also must reflect
actual risks. Today, the program offers uniform rates based
mainly on flood-plain classification. This method fails to take
account of the risk profiles of individual properties.  Perhaps most important, the program hasn’t found a good
solution for coping with self-inflicted  adverse selection , in
this case the requirement that property owners in high-risk
locations purchase expensive coverage while those with slightly
less risk can get large subsidies or don’t have to buy. This
limits the size of the premium pool. One possible answer is for
more mortgage lenders to require insurance on properties in
lower-risk flood plains as a condition of loan approval.  For the second year in a row, the Northeast was hit by a
devastating storm. More are inevitable. Strengthening flood
insurance is crucial to those who need it most: the middle-class
Americans and small businesses whose lives and livelihoods
depend on being close to the water. With the right fixes, the
program might avoid more taxpayer bailouts and will be able to
stand up to the storm.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  ending the opacity at the
European Central Bank ;  Mark Buchanan  on the  limits to economic
growth ; William D. Cohan on  Obama’s next economic team ;  Noah
Feldman  on how  same-sex marriage and marijuana votes  can
influence the  Supreme Court ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  Obama’s ideal
fiscal-cliff point man ;  Simon Johnson  on  candidates for Treasury
secretary ; Colin Woodard on the  regional philosophies behind
Obama’s and Romney’s supporters .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 