-- U.S. Fiscal Cliff Threatens World Economy, Australia’s Swan Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-11-11T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/u-s-fiscal-cliff-threatens-world-economy-australia-s-swan-says.html
The U.S. needs to end its political
gridlock in order to avert the so-called fiscal cliff that is
jeopardizing a “fragile” recovery in the global economy,
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said.  “Without action by Congress, the consequences would be
very grave,” Swan said in his e-mailed weekly note yesterday.
“The world cannot afford to see a continuation of the gridlock
that has bedeviled the U.S. political system in recent years.”  President  Barack Obama , claiming a mandate from voters
after his Nov. 6 re-election, faces opposition over his call for
an immediate tax-cut extension for people earning less than
$250,000 and insistence that top earners pay more.  The U.S. faces $1.2 trillion in mandated spending
reductions and tax boosts over a decade starting Jan. 1 should
Congress fail to agree to reduce the U.S. deficit, which totaled
$1.09 trillion in fiscal 2012.  Obama has offered no public concessions to House Speaker
 John Boehner , who has cited public support for the re-elected
House Republican majority for his stance of backing no increases
in tax rates. Obama and Boehner will meet at the White House Nov.
16, along with House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi , Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell .  Swan, who held discussions with Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in
Washington last week, called for the Democrats and the
Republicans to work together to avoid the cliff.  Cliff Threat  “Congress must heed President Obama’s call to work
together to find common ground and get the U.S. budget back on a
sustainable long-term track while also continuing to support
jobs and economic growth,” Swan said.  The president wants to let George W. Bush-era tax cuts
lapse on income of individuals above $200,000 and of married
couples above $250,000. That would push the top tax rate to 39.6
percent from 35 percent.  The Senate, controlled by Democrats, and the House,
controlled by Republicans, have each passed one-year extensions
of their own proposals. The policies preferred by Democrats
would lead to about $58 billion in higher taxes on top earners
in 2013.  Concern about the impact of a potential political stalemate
over the fiscal cliff has already had an impact on global
markets. On Nov. 10, the euro slid the most in four months
versus the yen on concern the U.S. budget showdown will push the
world’s biggest economy into recession and Greece will struggle
for more rescue funds.  The European Commission on Nov. 7 forecast that the 17-
nation euro economy will expand 0.1 percent in 2013, down from a
May forecast of 1 percent. It cut the estimate for Germany,
Europe’s largest economy, to 0.8 percent from 1.7 percent.  Fragile Recovery  The  Congressional Budget Office  has said the  U.S. economy 
would slow by as much as 0.5 percent next year if Congress fails
to prevent measures to reduce the deficit from kicking in on Jan.
1.  While  Australia , the world’s 12th-largest economy, has
shown resilience to the global slowdown by expanding at an
annual pace of about 4 percent in the first half of the year,
Swan said the lack of a political compromise over the fiscal
cliff would threaten all economies.  “The impact could stretch far beyond the U.S., striking a
severe blow to the fragile global recovery,” Swan said. “No
one should underestimate the urgency of averting this kind of
dire scenario.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  