-- My Top Five Choices for a New Treasury Secretary
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-11-11T23:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/my-top-five-choices-for-a-new-treasury-secretary.html
President  Barack Obama  needs a new
Treasury secretary. Timothy Geithner has made clear that he
intends to leave. Furthermore, it is time to bring some fresh
thinking to two vital issues: fiscal policy and financial-sector
oversight.  On fiscal policy, the need is obvious. The framers of the
Constitution took great care to divide powers within our
government. We can act decisively only when one party controls
all branches, or when we agree that there is a grave national
emergency. Whatever spin you want to put on the election, the
American people voted in a Democratic president, a Democratic
Senate and a Republican House. Divided we remain.  A new Treasury secretary must help the president navigate a
series of difficult decisions on fiscal policy -- and find a
broader compromise that puts our national debt onto a more
sustainable path.  House Speaker John Boehner indicated last week that new
revenue could be on the table, meaning that taxes could go up.
Given that a huge part of our fiscal mess is due to the erosion
of revenue since 2000, this is a potential opening that must be
seized and worked effectively by the administration, assuming
that Boehner’s offer is genuine and that he can deliver the
votes for a deal.  Financial Sector  But the Treasury secretary also has to worry about the
other major cause of our economic malaise: a financial sector
that is prone to blowing itself up. Under the  Dodd-Frank 
financial reform legislation, the secretary, as chairman of the
Financial Stability Oversight Council, is at the center of all
policy regarding banks and other financial institutions. There
may be reason to wish for a different arrangement, but the
chances of legislative changes over the next two years are
essentially zero.  So who would be capable of negotiating with House
Republicans and cajoling them into accepting sensible changes to
our tax code, including strengthening  revenue ? This person also
needs to be able to stand up to Wall Street -- and roll his or
her eyes when a lobbyist claims that a financial product or
market is “too complex” for government officials to
understand.  I have five suggestions, none of whom would be on Obama’s
shortlist but all of whom deserve careful consideration.  John Reed, former co-chief executive officer of Citigroup
Inc., has become a prominent critic of Wall Street.  In February 2010, he testified in favor of the Volcker rule
before the Senate Banking Committee and hit the ball out of the
park. If you want a succinct, informed and sensible assessment
of modern finance,  read  his testimony. (Or  watch  his more recent
interview with Bill Moyers, in which he ruefully describes his
role in ending the Glass-Steagall Act to make possible the
merger of Citicorp and Travelers Inc.)  Reed commands a great deal of respect on Capitol Hill. He
is capable of negotiating with leading Republicans in the Senate
and in the House. I don’t know exactly what he would prefer in
terms of raising taxes, but that is a broad strategic decision
to be made by the president as well as a detailed tactical point
that has to be worked out in discussions. (Disclosure: Reed is
chairman of the MIT Corporation, the governing body of the
university where I teach.)  Of all the presidential candidates of this campaign, former
Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman  was the only one to speak directly
and clearly about what it would take to make the financial
sector safer, including the need to press big banks to break up.
Just  read  his financial reform plan.  Painless Pragmatism  Huntsman also has good ideas on the need to increase growth
as the best and most painless way to stabilize debt relative to
the size of the economy. His  tax reform record  as governor is
strong. At the same time, he is exactly the kind of pragmatist
who can help Republicans understand the need to bolster our
revenue base.  If you prefer a Democrat, I would turn to Bill Bradley. The
former New Jersey senator was the co-sponsor of the Bradley-
Gephardt bill that led to the Tax Reform Act of 1986. As one of
the lead negotiators of that measure, he knows more about
achieving historic tax reform than almost anybody. President
Ronald Reagan’s willingness to raise taxes is always a good
place to start any fiscal discussion with Republicans.  We have a pressing national emergency: Since 2000, we cut
revenue dramatically without addressing  spending . Bradley is the
kind of reasonable person who can help work out how to bring the
two closer to balance. (Disclosure: Bradley kindly provided a
blurb endorsing “White House Burning,” my recent book with
 James Kwak .)  In addition, I have complete confidence that Bradley would
have no trouble standing up to powerful players on Wall Street.  I also strongly recommend two people who held government
posts during the first Obama administration.  Sheila Bair, former head of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., should be everyone’s first choice to lead the Financial
Stability Oversight Council. No one is as clear-thinking and as
compelling on financial-sector issues. Her command of detail
amazes experts. She is a Republican who worked for Senator Bob Dole during the tax-reform moment of the 1980s. This year, she
endorsed  Massachusetts ’ Elizabeth Warren for Senate, making the
point that Warren is exactly the kind of person who can work
across the aisle. (Another disclosure: I’m a member of the
Systemic Risk Council, a private group created by Bair to watch
over financial reform issues; this is an unpaid position.)  Gary Gensler, the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, would also be a very strong pick. In his current
job, he has stood up to special interests, despite his previous
career as a partner at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  He worked at
Treasury in the 1990s and has a command of all relevant fiscal
details. No one has a better understanding of how derivatives
can destabilize markets.  (Simon Johnson, a professor at the MIT Sloan School of
Management as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is  co-author  of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  re-examining the cost of
federal flood insurance  and on  ending the opacity at the
European Central Bank ; Mark Buchanan on the  limits to economic
growth ; William D. Cohan on  Obama’s next economic team ; Noah
Feldman on how  same-sex marriage and marijuana votes  can
influence the Supreme Court; Albert R. Hunt on  Obama’s ideal
fiscal-cliff point man ; Colin Woodard on the  regional
philosophies behind Obama’s and Romney’s supporters .  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  