-- Zhou Cautions on Lingering Crisis as China’s Exports Rebound
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-12T01:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-11/zhou-cautions-on-lingering-crisis-even-as-china-exports-rebound.html
Central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan 
highlighted the effects on China of what he termed five years of
crisis, adding to officials’ cautions on the economic outlook
even after a rebound in exports.  “Overall our macro-economic controls have been
successful,” Zhou said at a briefing in Beijing yesterday as
part of the Communist Party congress that begins a once-a-decade
leadership transition. “But of course the financial crisis
didn’t finish, and became a  European debt crisis , and therefore
we are still continuing to deal with it.”  China’s export growth accelerated in October and the
nation’s  trade surplus  swelled to $32 billion, the highest in
almost four years, a customs report showed Nov. 10. While the
improvement adds to signs that the next generation of leaders
may be aided by a strengthening economy, Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said that the trade outlook is “grim” and economic
planning chief Zhang Ping said the nation’s recovery needs
stronger foundations.  “Policy makers are probably trying to down play the recent
growth rebound primarily because of concerns on external demand
risks,” said Helen Qiao, a Hong Kong-based economist for Morgan
Stanley. “In view of the deleveraging need in the U.S. and
 Europe  in the next three to five years, it is hard to be over-
optimistic.”  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.3 percent as of 9:42
a.m. local time, set to snap a five-day decline.  Zhou’s Role  Asked about his future in the job, Zhou, 64, said that one
retires at a “certain age.” Zhou is China’s longest-serving
central bank governor since the 1960s, with close to a decade in
the role, and the publication of a collection of his speeches,
articles and interviews fueled speculation that he could be set
to retire.  Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based economist with  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said yesterday that he expects a
replacement to be announced before the end of this year. Zhou’s
status may become clearer when the party this week names its
central committee. If he’s no longer a member, that could signal
a change.  Zhou said changes to the interest-rate system should be at
a “moderate” pace and signaled that he saw less risk from so-
called shadow banking in China than in developed economies.
Asked about the central bank’s recent use of reverse repurchase
agreements, Zhou said that they were short-term and more
flexible than bank reserve requirements.  Yuan’s Level  In a statement before the briefing, the central bank
reiterated that the Chinese currency, the  yuan , is close to what
officials describe as an “equilibrium” level. The currency has
strengthened about 2.4 percent since July 25 after a 1.6 percent
decline since the start of the year.  The 11.6 percent rise in China’s exports last month was
more than the 10 percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists and September’s 9.9 percent gain. Imports rose 2.4
percent, the same pace as the previous month.  “Based on the data, signs of apparent economic
stablization and rebound emerged in September and October,”
Zhang, head of the National Development and Reform Commission,
said Nov. 10 during the congress. “But we still can’t relax and
our analysis concludes that the foundations for stabilization
are not solid enough.”  China  needs to prepare for prolonged challenges including
the debt turmoil in some countries and sluggish global growth
while solving domestic issues such as overcapacity, Zhang said.  Easing Seen  “Policy easing” will help to boost economic growth
above 8 percent this quarter and in the first half of next
year, said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong . Inflation will lead to tightening
and slower growth in the second half, Zhang said.  Export gains have picked up from a 1 percent pace in July
and 2.7 percent in August. Like the NDRC’s Zhang, Zhou said
that China’s data in September and October had pointed to the
economy stabilizing.  Industrial production, fixed-asset investment and retail
sales accelerated in October, government reports showed on Nov.
9, signaling that economic growth will exceed Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s 7.5 percent target for his last year in office. China
is confident it will achieve expansion this year of at least 7.5
percent, Zhang said.  “We are still cautious, but the robust export growth
around 10 percent for two consecutive months might truly point
to a real rebound,” said Lu Ting, chief  Greater China  economist
at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong. The “elevated” trade
surplus may mean the central bank will be reluctant to cut
lenders’ reserve requirements, Lu said while maintaining his
forecast for “at most” one 0.5 percentage-point reduction by
year-end.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  