-- ‘Desperate’ AT&T May Seek to Buy Dish After Deal Collapses, Stifel Says
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2011-12-20T21:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/-desperate-at-t-may-turn-to-dish-after-t-mobile-deal-failure-stifel-says.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  may seek to acquire Dish
Network Corp., the second-largest U.S. satellite-TV company, to
gain wireless spectrum after failing to purchase  T-Mobile USA 
and its airwaves, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. said.  The second-largest U.S. mobile carrier is “desperate for
spectrum” after regulatory opposition forced it to abandon the
$39 billion T-Mobile bid, said  Christopher King , a Stifel
Nicolaus analyst in Baltimore. AT&T had to give up spectrum as
part of a breakup fee from the deal’s collapse.  Dish bought bankrupt companies DBSD North America Inc. and
TerreStar Networks Inc. this year for their spectrum licenses.
The Englewood, Colorado-based company may be AT&T’s best chance
at enhancing its wireless network, and a deal would probably be
allowed by regulators, King said.  Dish (DISH)  rose 9.2 percent, the
most since May, to $27.46 at the  New York  close. The shares have
gained 40 percent this year. AT&T rose 1.3 percent to $29.12.  “Dish and AT&T aren’t direct competitors, and at the end
of the day, the government wants to see spectrum used,” King
said in an interview. “It’s highly unlikely regulators would
block two AT&T deals in row.”  Ashley Zandy, an AT&T spokeswoman, and Marc Lumpkin, a Dish
spokesman, declined to comment.  Growing Demand  Spectrum is a term used for airwaves, licensed by the
government, that carry wireless voice and data signals.
Governments often sell unused or repurposed frequencies to the
highest bidder, and companies also trade them. Demand is
increasing as more people buy smartphones and tablets and use
them to watch video and browse the Web.  Verizon Wireless , the No. 1 mobile carrier, is trying to
extend its lead over Dallas-based AT&T in so-called fourth-
generation spectrum after striking deals with cable companies
this month. Including those acquisitions, Verizon will have 56
percent more 4G spectrum than AT&T in the top 10 markets and 46
percent more in the top 100, giving it a “meaningful
competitive advantage,” John Hodulik, a UBS AG analyst, said in
a research note.  A Dish-AT&T lockup could mirror the partnership between
Verizon Wireless and cable companies, King said. Verizon said
this month it would buy $3.6 billion of spectrum from  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) , Time Warner Cable Inc. and Bright House Networks LLC. Cox
Communications Inc. also sold Verizon $315 million of spectrum.  Verizon’s Cable Deals  Comcast,  Time Warner Cable (TWC)  and Cox, the three largest U.S.
cable companies, will market and eventually sell Verizon
Wireless service, enabling them to offer customers mobile voice
and data in addition to home phone, Internet and TV service.  Verizon Wireless is being investigated by the U.S. Justice
Department over whether the proposed deals might constitute a
restraint of trade, a person familiar with the matter said.  If AT&T acquired Dish, it could continue to operate its
satellite-TV business, gaining about 14 million customers and
saving on programming costs, King said. AT&T already pays for
cable and broadcast content through its TV service, U-verse.  Adding Dish could give AT&T more leverage in negotiations
with cable networks, said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst with
Bloomberg Industries. AT&T’s video customer additions have
slumped in consecutive quarters.  Lower Ambitions  “AT&T has scaled back its ambitions in terms of its video
offerings,” Sweeney said. “So if you can’t build it, perhaps
buy it.”  The Federal Communications Commission still must approve
Dish’s spectrum acquisitions and give Dish a waiver to offer
mobile high-speed  Internet service  to its customers. The FCC may
have concerns with Dish acquiring spectrum licenses to flip them
for a profit, King said, although he didn’t think it would be a
deal-breaker.  Dish Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton said this month
that his company wanted to be a wireless competitor in an
industry dominated by AT&T and Verizon. Chairman  Charlie Ergen 
said in November that Dish was interested in linking up with a
wireless company or building a network on its own to create more
competition in the industry.  It’s in Ergen’s best interest to talk about competing with
AT&T if he wants to sell, King said.  “This is a perfect opportunity for Charlie to get out,”
King said. “He’s talking about building a wireless network or
being a competitor to get a better deal from AT&T.”  AT&T has been rumored “for years” to be a potential
acquirer of Dish and  DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite-TV
distributor, according to Sweeney. Ergen also tried to merge
Dish with DirecTV in 2002. The deal was dropped after U.S.
regulators opposed the combination.  Ergen said in November that a merger with DirecTV would be
“problematic” if AT&T’s bid for T-Mobile didn’t go through.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  