-- 49ers Beat Steelers 20-3 After Two Power Outages at San Francisco Stadium
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-20T06:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/49ers-beat-steelers-20-3-after-two-power-outages-at-san-francisco-stadium.html
The  San Francisco 49ers  beat the
Pittsburgh Steelers 20-3 in a game twice delayed by power
outages to stay in position for a bye in the first round of the
National Football League playoffs.  Vernon Davis and Frank Gore scored second-half touchdowns
last night at Candlestick Park for the 49ers, who improved to
11-3 and ended the Steelers’ four-game winning streak.  “It was a game about respect and we knew it was going to
be a tough battle,” 49ers quarterback  Alex Smith , who passed
for 187 yards and a touchdown, said in a televised interview.  San Francisco , which clinched the National Football
Conference’s West division title two weeks ago, stays ahead of
the  New Orleans Saints  (11-3) in the race for the  No. 2 seed  in
the conference and a first-round playoff bye.  Pittsburgh and Baltimore are now both 10-4 atop the AFC
North, though the Ravens hold the tiebreaker advantage because
of their two wins over the Steelers this season. A Pittsburgh
victory last night would have moved the Steelers ahead of
Baltimore and into position for the AFC’s No. 1 seed with
regular-season games against St. Louis (2-12) and Cleveland
(4-10) remaining.  “We didn’t do enough,” Steelers coach  Mike Tomlin  said at
a news conference. “We better lick our wounds pretty quickly.
We had an opportunity and didn’t seize it.”  The start of the game was delayed 20 minutes after the
lights went out at  Candlestick Park . Play was halted for about
16 minutes during the second quarter after another power outage,
which the 49ers said was caused by offsite transformer problems.  “It was unusual,” Smith said. “You don’t expect to deal
with something like that, let alone twice.”  49ers Take Lead  San Francisco led 6-0 at halftime after David Akers kicked
two field goals and the 49ers’ defense intercepted Steelers
quarterback  Ben Roethlisberger  twice. Roethlisberger played even
though he was hobbled by a high ankle sprain.  After Pittsburgh pulled within 6-3 on a 51-yard field goal
by Shaun Suisham in the third quarter, Davis extended the 49ers’
lead on the next drive with a one-yard touchdown reception. The
score came one play after Davis hauled in a 21-yard pass from
Smith to get the 49ers to the 1-yard line.  Gore added a 5-yard touchdown run with 9:06 remaining to
push the 49ers’ lead to 20-3.  Roethlisberger finished with four turnovers -- three
interceptions and a fumble -- against the 49ers’ defense, which
has allowed the fewest points in the NFL. The Steelers were
without linebacker  James Harrison , the league’s 2008 defensive
player of the year, who was serving a one-game suspension for
five illegal hits on quarterbacks in the past three years.  The 49ers hold the tiebreaker advantage against the Saints
with a better record against conference opponents, and can
clinch the NFC No. 2 seed if they win their final two games
against  Seattle  (7-7) and St. Louis (2-12).  New Orleans  finishes
the regular season against Atlanta (9-5) and Carolina (5-9).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  