-- Aldar of Abu Dhabi Drops to Record Amid Bets on Delisting; Yield Declines
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2011-12-20T11:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/aldar-of-abu-dhabi-drops-to-record-amid-bets-on-delisting-yield-declines.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  tumbled to the
lowest on record on investor speculation Abu Dhabi’s biggest
developer by market value may be taken private.  The shares dropped 2.3 percent to 85 fils, the lowest since
their listing in April 2005, at the 2 p.m. close in Abu Dhabi.
 Sorouh Real Estate Co. (SOROUH) , the emirate’s second biggest developer,
retreated 1.2 percent to a record low of 81 fils. Abu Dhabi’s
benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  lost 0.8 percent to 2,373.11,
closing at the lowest since March 2009.  “Investors are concerned about a possible scenario of
delisting” after a bond conversion by state-owned Mubadala
Development Co., Tariq Qaqish, deputy head of asset management
at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital, said by e-mail today.  Aldar, grappling with tumbling property prices in Abu
Dhabi, last week converted bonds valued at 2.1 billion dirhams
($572 million) held by Mubadala, its largest shareholder and an
investor with stakes in  Carlyle Group  and  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
into shares of 1.75 dirhams each. That was at the bottom end of
the agreed range of 2.30 dirhams to 1.75 dirhams.  Spokesmen for Aldar and Mubadala, who both declined to be
identified because of company policy, said their companies
wouldn’t comment on market speculation.  Aldar shares have dropped 63 percent this year compared
with a 13 percent decline in the benchmark ADX General Index.
Aldar’s shareholders include Abu Dhabi Investment Authority,
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC and Shuaa Capital PJSC,
according to the most-recent data compiled by Bloomberg.  Prices Drop  Abu Dhabi’s government in January agreed to buy assets
including a Ferrari theme park and convertible bonds for 19.2
billion dirhams to help Aldar pay creditors. State-run
International Petroleum Investment Co. last year took Aabar
Investments PJSC, the third-biggest shareholder in German
carmaker  Daimler AG , private after its shares slumped.  “The rumor of delisting is there, but I don’t believe it’s
happening now or even imminently,” Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief
investment officer at Capm Investment PJSC in Abu Dhabi, said by
telephone. “My feeling is that some local banks are liquidating
some portfolios that were used as collateral.”  Property values and rents slumped in the  United Arab
Emirates  after banks curtailed lending and speculators pulled
out due to the global credit crunch.  Home prices  in Abu Dhabi,
the U.A.E. capital, may drop 30 percent more after declining as
much as 55 percent from the market’s peak in mid-2008, according
to Dubai-based Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd.  Yields Decline  The yield on Aldar’s 10.75 percent bonds maturing in May
2014 fell to the lowest in more than a month to 6.1 percent at
3:19 p.m. in Dubai. It dropped 20 basis points, or 0.20 of a
percentage point, on Dec. 15 when the company announced
conversion of bonds into shares for Mubadala.  The conversion “is perceived as good news because a
company connected to the  Abu Dhabi  government is backing it,”
Adnan Haider, head of fixed income & equities at Abu Dhabi
Commercial Bank PJSC, said in a phone interview today. “It
gives comfort to investors that Mubadala will stand behind it.”  Aldar said Oct. 31 it plans to cut its workforce by 24
percent as it focuses on existing projects and properties that
generate steady income. Government-owned Tourism Development &
Investment Co. said on Oct. 29 that it would delay the Zayed
National Museum’s completion as well as the Louvre and
Guggenheim branches due to the “magnitude of work.”  “It’s widely acknowledged that Abu Dhabi stopped a lot of
projects six months ago,” Oliver Bell, lead Middle East and
Africa portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price in  London , said in an
e-mailed response to questions today. “One potential solution
would be to merge all the developers under Mubadala.” This,
along with the “dilution of minority holders” after the bond
conversion, leaves open questions on “how minorities would be
treated,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  