-- Stanford’s Move to Trial or Treatment Argued in Texas Court
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2011-12-20T23:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/allen-stanford-s-move-to-trial-or-treatment-argued-in-u-s-court-in-texas.html
R. Allen Stanford, the indicted
Texas financier claiming he’s mentally unfit to stand trial next
month, failed every test designed to expose fakers, a government
psychologist testified.  “When it comes to the amnesia, I’m convinced that
complaint is malingered,” Dr. Robert E. Cochrane, a staff
psychologist at the Federal Bureau of Prisons’ medical center in
Butner,  North Carolina , said today at a hearing in federal court
in Houston.  Depending on a ruling by U.S. District Judge David Hittner,
Stanford, 61, will undergo further treatment or face a trial
Jan. 23 on charges of running a  Ponzi scheme  that cost investors
more than $7 billion and might put him prison for the rest of
his life. Cochrane was the government’s only witness.  Stanford claims he can’t recall family vacations, his
business dealings or romantic encounters with women because “59
years were stolen” by a jailhouse beating and anxiety drugs,
the government said in court papers. The government says he is
faking.  Stanford arrived in court today shackled, looking thin and
alert in green prison clothes. He smiled at family members in
the back of the courtroom after greeting his attorney and the
lead prosecutor, saying softly, “Good Christmas.”  On every neuropsychological test designed to unmask
feigning, “Mr. Stanford failed,” Cochrane said, “and that was
pretty strong evidence he was exaggerating the  memory loss .”  Rare Condition  The claim of complete retrograde amnesia, loss of the
memory of things that happened before the event that caused it,
is “remarkable” because the condition is so rare, the doctor
said.  “It happens so infrequently it’s hardly documented in the
medical literature,” he said.  He said Stanford’s purported amnesia didn’t fit the
pattern, because his memory was normal immediately after the
jailhouse beating that his lawyers say caused the condition,
then supposedly deteriorated when he arrived at the medical
center more than a year later.  “ If the head injury was the source of his amnesia, how
could he remember then and not now?” Cochrane asked. “You have
amnesia right after the head injury, not after a delay.”  Stanford, the doctor said, performed so poorly on certain
memory tests that “mentally retarded children did much better”
on them.  ‘Cocktail of Medications’  Ali R. Fazel , one of Stanford’s attorneys, said in a filing
before the hearing that doctors’ testimony will show the Texas
financier suffered a traumatic brain injury in jail made worse
by “the cocktail of medications” administered in the federal
lockup.  “He didn’t blow those tests!” Richard Pollock, a
neuropsychologist who examined Stanford for his defense team,
told Hittner. Pollock said test results the government claims
show Stanford is faking amnesia are “much ado about nothing.”  “Those tests have the same shortcomings as a polygraph,”
Pollock testified. “They can’t tell you if somebody is lying or
not. They can tell you about the effort level and symptom
validity.”  When Pollock tested Stanford upon his return to Houston
last month, that round of tests “said there’s no malingering
whatsoever,” Pollock testified. “He is definitely having
difficulty trying to express his thoughts and prior knowledge
effectively.”  Cognitive Disorder  Pollock diagnosed Stanford with cognitive disorder, major
depressive disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder caused by
the assault and subsequent over medication.  “At this point in time, I don’t think he could competently
help you prepare for trial,” Pollock told Fazel. “The main
reason is the amnesia” and a brain injury that’s left Stanford
unable to concentrate and “avoid going down dead end roads and
wasting a lot of time.”  Stanford’s lawyers filed papers asking the judge to delay
the trial until at least the end of April to let Stanford
continue to recover and give his lawyers additional time to
prepare.  Defense Filing  Hittner today ruled that Stanford’s former lawyer and
mother, listed as witnesses by the defense, won’t be allowed to
testify.  The judge said he’ll hear from “only the treating
doctors” who can address Stanford’s ability to proceed to
trial.  Stanford has been imprisoned as a flight risk since his
June 2009 indictment on charges of defrauding investors through
a scheme built on allegedly bogus certificates of deposit at
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  Prosecutors say Stanford skimmed more than $1 billion of
investor funds to acquire fleet of jets and yachts, multiple
mansions and a private Caribbean island, as well as to give
money to women with whom he had children.  Hittner delayed Stanford’s trial, first set for last
January, after three doctors testified that the financier was
incapable of assisting in his defense because of his drug
dependency and potential effects from the head injury.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 