-- Amaranth’s $77.1 Million Manipulation Settlement Approved
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2011-12-20T17:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/amaranth-s-77-1-million-manipulation-settlement-approved-1-.html
A federal judge approved a
$77.1 million settlement by Amaranth Advisors LLC, the hedge
fund that collapsed in 2006 after losing $6.6 billion on natural
gas trades, of a lawsuit brought by traders who accused it of
market manipulation.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin, in an order Dec. 15,
approved the agreement, which was filed two days earlier in
 Manhattan  federal court by plaintiff’s attorney Christopher Lovell of Lovell Stewart Halebian Jacobson LLP. The parties had
reached a tentative agreement in October. A hearing on final
approval of the class-action, or group, accord is scheduled for
March 27, according to court filings.  In August 2009, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
announced that Greenwich, Connecticut-based Amaranth paid
$7.5 million to settle allegations that the hedge fund tried to
manipulate natural gas futures three years earlier. In their
suit, the traders presented an expert who estimated damages at
$3.5 billion, court records show.  “The plaintiffs compromised to a tiny fraction of their
overall claim,” Stephen Senderowitz of Winston & Strawn LLP in
 Chicago , a lawyer for Amaranth, said today in a phone interview.
The settlement avoided the cost and risk of a trial, and paves
the way for investors to receive any remaining funds, he said.  In April, the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  issued a
$30 million civil penalty against Brian Hunter, an Amaranth
trader accused of manipulating the natural gas market in 2006.  Lovell didn’t return calls seeking comment on the
settlement.  The case is In Re Amaranth Natural Gas Commodities
Litigation, 07-06377, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 