-- Aon Will Pay $16.3 Million to Resolve U.S. Bribery Probes
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2011-12-20T20:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/aon-will-pay-16-3-million-to-resolve-u-s-bribery-probes.html
Aon Corp. (AON) , the largest insurance
broker, agreed to pay $16.3 million to resolve criminal and
civil probes of possible bribes paid overseas to get business.  Aon settled a civil enforcement action by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, agreeing to pay $14.5
million and denying wrongdoing. Chicago-based Aon also will pay
a $1.76 million criminal fine and signed a Justice Department
non-prosecution agreement that requires anti-bribery controls.  Aon subsidiaries made more than $3.6 million in improper
payments between 1983 and 2007 related to business in countries
including Costa Rica,  Egypt ,  Vietnam ,  Indonesia ,  United Arab
Emirates , Myanmar and Bangladesh, the SEC alleged. The payments
led to $11.4 million in illicit profits, the agency claimed.  “Aon’s liability is not premised on an isolated instance
of misconduct,” Kara Brockmeyer, chief of the SEC Enforcement
Division’s Foreign Corrupt Practices Act unit, said in a
statement. “Rather, for years, Aon’s subsidiaries repeatedly
engaged in misconduct around the world.”  In 2009, Aon paid a 5.25-million pound ($7.9 million) fine
to Britain’s Financial Services Authority for not having
sufficient anti-bribery controls.  The  Justice Department  agreed to not prosecute Aon for
violating the FCPA. It cited Aon’s “extraordinary cooperation”
with the Justice Department and SEC, its “timely and complete
disclosure” of facts about improper payments in eight nations,
its “early and extensive remedial measures,” and the fine it
paid to the FSA.  ‘Acting With Integrity’  “Acting with integrity is Aon’s core value and we embody
this in our commitment to the highest professional standards,”
said Greg Case, chief executive officer and president, in a
statement. “Aon has invested a significant amount of time and
resources in anti-corruption compliance and transparency to
greatly enhance our controls and processes.”  The two-year non-prosecution agreement said “it is
understood that Aon has and will continue to strengthen its
compliance, bookkeeping, and internal controls standards and
procedures.”  Aon Ltd., a U.K. subsidiary, acquired a Costa Rican
brokerage firm in 1997, according to a six-page statement of
facts. All insurance agreements in  Costa Rica , including
reinsurance contracts brokered by Aon, had to be issued by INS,
the nation’s state-owned insurance company.  Training Funds  Aon set up training and education funds that were supposed
to benefit INS officials. In fact, Aon “used a significant
portion of the funds to reimburse for non-training related
activity or for uses that could not be determined from Aon’s
books and records,” the company admitted.  Most of the money from the two funds went to a Costa Rican
tourism company where the director of the INS reinsurance
department served on the board, Aon said. That director took 14
trips with Aon funds, including five with his wife. The director
of INS and his wife also took overseas trips, Aon said.  “A substantial number of the trips taken by INS officials
were in connection with conferences and seminars in tourist
destinations, including London, Paris,  Monte Carlo , Zurich,
Munich, Cologne, and Cairo,” Aon said. “Many of the invoices
and other records for these trips do not provide the business
purpose of the expenditures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 