-- Apple EU Design May Lose Reach in Samsung Case Over Tablets, Court Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2011-12-20T21:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/apple-eu-design-may-be-less-valuable-in-samsung-case-court-says.html
A European Union design  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
used to win a sales ban on Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy 10.1
tablets may be of limited value after new evidence was
introduced in an appeal of the decision, a German court said.  Samsung introduced as evidence a U.S. utility patent using
a type of flat screen that was published 13 days before Apple
filed its  EU design right . That fact may limit the range of
protection the world’s most valuable technology company gets,
said Wilhelm Berneke, the presiding judge at the hearing in
Dusseldorf. Apple may still be able to rely on fair-competition
rules for a German ban, he said today, adding that the court’s
assessment is preliminary. A ruling is scheduled for Jan. 31.  Under German rules “Apple’s tablet design may have a
rather broad range of protection, because it’s widely known,”
said Berneke. “But there are also elements that need to remain
free, like the feature that tablets are very thin.”  Both sides are appealing a Sept. 9 sales ban issued by a
lower court.  Samsung (005930)  seeks to overturn the ban, while Apple
wants it extended to cover all EU countries and both Samsung’s
German sales company and the Suwon, South-Korea based parent.
The companies are to face each other again on Dec. 22 in the
lower court, where Apple is also seeking a sales ban for the
Galaxy 10.1N, a tablet Samsung began selling after the Sept. 9
ruling.  Tablets, Smartphones  The legal battle between Cupertino, California-based Apple
and its closest competitor in tablet computers is intensifying
as an increasing number of consumers use devices such as tablets
and smartphones to surf websites, play games and download music.  As many as 2.1 million tablet computers will be sold in
 Germany  in 2011, a sales increase of 162 percent from 2010,
Bitkom, the nation’s technology and telecommunications
association, said last week.  The U.S. utility patent and a related German design right
published half a year earlier show that the form of design Apple
claims as its original invention was already known at the time
and thus can’t claim protection, Samsung argues.  Matthias Koch, a lawyer for Apple, told the court those two
intellectual property rights were filed for computer screens and
can’t be used to prompt design rights for a tablet. The way the
objects are used distinguishes both designs, he said.  The U.S. utility patent and the German design right are
owned by Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News. Bloomberg
isn’t a party to the lawsuit.  Fair Competition  The court compared devices of several tablet makers to
review Apple’s claim that Samsung copied the iPad’s makeup and
thus violated German fair-competition rules.  “You can say that tablet designs of all other competitors
are farer from the Apple model than Samsung’s are,” Berneke
said. “We will have to see whether they come so close that they
exploit Apple’s reputation.”  Koch argued that Samsung does because it intentionally
designed its tablet in a way to allow its customers to make
others believe they own an iPad.  “Samsung’s method is to follow Apple as close as
possible,” Koch said. “Their plan is to get a big slice of the
cake.”  Apple can seek an EU wide ban only if its design right
prevails. Under German fair-competition rules it can only ask
for a ban limited to that country.  Today’s cases are: OLG Dusseldorf, I-20 U 175/11 and I-20 U
126/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Dusseldorf via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  