-- Apple IPad Dust Linked to Blast in China, Labor Watch Says
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2011-12-20T09:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/apple-supplier-s-china-factory-blast-linked-to-ipads-group-says.html
An explosion at a Shanghai supplier
to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  injured 61 workers after aluminum dust produced by
polishing cases for iPads ignited, China Labor Watch said.  The cause of the Dec. 17 blast at Ri Teng Computer
Accessory (Shanghai) Co., owned by Taipei-based  Pegatron Corp. (4938) ,
was similar to that of an accident at a Foxconn Technology Group
facility in May, according to an e-mailed statement from China
Labor Watch yesterday. Pegatron Chief Financial Officer Charles Lin didn’t immediately return calls to his office seeking
comment.  Foxconn, the biggest contract manufacturer for Apple, said
in May “combustible dust” probably caused the May 20 accident
at its factory in Chengdu, China, when three workers died and 15
were injured. Pegatron said Dec. 18 that some employees injured
in the explosion the previous day were hospitalized, without
providing details about the accident.  “We are working closely with Pegatron to understand the
cause of this accident,” Carolyn Wu, a spokeswoman for Apple,
said by telephone today. “Our hearts go out to the people who
were hurt in Songjiang,” she said, declining to elaborate.  Local authorities in the Songjiang area of  Shanghai  have
started investigating the accident at Ri Teng, the city
government said in a Dec. 17 posting on the Sina Weibo
microblogging service. No one answered the phone at the press
office of the Shanghai government today when Bloomberg News
called seeking comment.  Pegatron fell 1 percent to close at NT$31.30 in Taipei
trading, compared with a 0.4 percent gain in the city’s
benchmark Taiex Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  