-- Argentine Trade Official Commits Suicide in Hotel at Mercosur Bloc Summit
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-20T21:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/argentine-trade-official-commits-suicide-in-hotel-at-mercosur-bloc-summit.html
Argentine Deputy Trade Secretary
Ivan Heyn killed himself in a hotel room in Uruguay during a
summit of the Mercosur trade bloc.  Heyn, 34, hung himself in a room at the Radisson Hotel, in
the center of Montevideo’s historic district, Uruguay goverment
spokesman Leonardo Galante said. Nearby, heads of state from
across  South America  had gathered to discuss how to protect the
region from a global economic slowdown. Heyn had worked with
Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino during a meeting of Mercosur
finance ministers yesterday.  Mercosur officials delayed a final press conference and
canceled a photo for heads of state previously scheduled to mark
the end of the two-day meeting. Doctors were called to attend to
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner after she was
told of the news.  Heyn, an economist who graduated from the University of
Buenos Aires, was appointed to his position after Fernandez took
office for a second term on Dec. 10. He previously served as the
head of the government-run Corporacion Antiguo Puerto Madero,
which oversaw the redevelopment of the historic docklands near
the city’s financial district. He was also on the board of Aluar
Aluminio Argentina SA, according to the securities exchange
website.  Heyn didn’t leave a note or explanation behind, police
spokesman Jose Luis Rondan told reporters at the Radisson. In a
July 24 story in Buenos Aires-based newspaper La Nacion, Heyn
described himself as a “soldier” in Fernandez’s efforts to
strengthen the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  