-- Most Asian Stocks Rise on U.S. Outlook as RBA Sees ‘Solid’ Regional Growth
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2011-12-20T10:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/asian-stocks-rise-as-exporters-gain-on-optimism-for-u-s-economic-outlook.html
Most Asian stocks rose as optimism
about the outlook for the  U.S. economy  and resilient economic
growth in  Asia  overshadowed concern that  China ’s real estate
sector might be heading for a hard landing.  James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , the building materials maker
that counts the U.S. as its biggest market, rose 2.4 percent in
Sydney after Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey
Lacker  predicted moderate expansion in the U.S. economy.  Olympus
Corp. (7733)  gained 16 percent after the Nikkei newspaper reported the
camera maker is planning a share sale. China Overseas Land &
Investment Ltd., the biggest mainland developer listed in  Hong
Kong , sank 3.5 percent after SouFun Holdings Ltd. said home
sales and prices will continue to fall next year.  “The U.S. economy is in a better shape than  Europe  and
that’s positive,” said Andrew Pease, Sydney-based senior
investment strategist for the Asia-Pacific region at Russell
Investment Group. “Given the huge clouds hanging over the
global markets from Europe and uncertainties in the Chinese
property market, it’s very hard to be optimistic at this stage.
Investors are also pricing in increased geopolitical risks.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.3 percent, to 110.68
as of 7:57 p.m. in  Tokyo , with about five shares advancing for
every four that fell. The gauge dropped to a three-week low
yesterday after North Korean leader Kim Jong Il died and Fitch
Ratings said it may cut the credit ratings of European nations.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  advanced 0.5 percent,
while South Korea’s Kospi Index gained 0.9 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index closed less than 0.1 percent
higher after rising as much as 1.1 percent and falling 0.3
percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.1 percent.  Asia Growth  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 fell 0.2 percent after the Reserve
Bank of Australia cited risks from Europe in its Dec. 6 decision
to cut rates even as growth in Asia’s economies remains
“solid,” minutes released today showed.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1 percent
after falling as much as 0.2 percent today. The index fell 1.2
percent in New York yesterday after European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi said substantial risks to the economy
remain and the law keeps him from boosting government bond
purchases to fight the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slumped 20 percent this year
year through yesterday, with Olympus leading declines as the
camera maker admitted concealing losses over a period of years.
Utilities were the worst performing industry in the gauge as
Japan’s nuclear-power producers tumbled after the worst nuclear
accident in 25 years engulfed Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  Relative Performance  The Asia-Pacific Index’s drop compared with a 4.2 percent
fall by the S&P 500 and a 15 percent loss by the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  Stocks (MXAP)  in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.3
times estimated earnings on average, compared with 12.2 times
for the S&P 500 and 10.1 times for the Stoxx 600.  Exporters advanced after the Fed’s Lacker said the U.S.
economy will expand 2 percent to 2.5 percent next year despite
slowing global growth.  James Hardie climbed 2.4 percent to A$6.54.  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570) , the world’s fifth-largest maker of mobile phones by sales,
gained 1.7 percent to 72,700 won.  Olympus advanced 16 percent to 1,065 yen. The Japanese
camera maker may hire financial advisers for a plan to sell 100
billion yen of preference shares to investors that may include
companies from  Sony Corp. (6758)  to Siemens AG, the Nikkei newspaper
reported, without saying where it got the information.  “A share sale would strengthen Olympus’s financials and
that brings reassurance for investors,” said  Yoshihiro Okumura ,
who helps oversee $365 million at Chiba-Gin Asset Management Co.
in Tokyo. “It was also positive that there are companies
interested in investing in Olympus.”  Chinese Developers  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , the biggest shareholder of Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co., climbed 5 percent to S$1.16 in  Singapore , poised for
its biggest advance this month. Yanzhou Coal, China’s No. 4
producer of the fuel, plans to acquire Australia’s Gloucester
Coal for at least $2 billion, a person with knowledge of the
matter said. Noble, a Hong-based commodities supplier, owns 65
percent of  Gloucester (GCL) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hang Ten Group Holdings Ltd., a Hong Kong-based clothier,
surged 56 percent to HK$2.65 after receiving a HK$2.65 billion
($341 million) buyout offer from Li & Fung Retailing Ltd., whose
parent also controls Li & Fung Ltd.  Cochlear Ltd., maker of the world’s top-selling ear
implant, gained 16 percent, the most in seven years, to A$64.33
in Sydney after saying it plans to fix a glitch that had led to
a recall costing as much as A$150 million ($149 million).  Chinese Home sales  Among stocks that declined, shares of Chinese property
developers dropped after SouFun, China’s biggest real estate
website, said property transactions will continue to fall in the
first half of 2012. Government data released on Dec. 18 showed
the nation’s home prices worst performance this year with more
than half of the 70 biggest cities monitored in November
recording declines.  China Overseas Land sank 3.5 percent to HK$13.36. China
Resources Land Ltd., a state-owned developer, fell 2.1 percent
to HK$12.22.  Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. (2777) , the biggest
homebuilder in the southern Chinese city, lost 1 percent to
HK$6.16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  