-- AstraZeneca Setbacks May Force Change in Drug Development
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2011-12-20T21:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/astrazeneca-profit-to-be-at-lower-end-of-forecast-after-research-setbacks.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-
biggest drugmaker, may need to change its drug development
strategy after setbacks with experimental treatments for cancer
and depression, analysts said.  A medicine called olaparib won’t move to the next stage of
clinical trials to treat a type of ovarian cancer and a second
advanced study of another drug for patients with major
depressive disorder failed to meet the main goal, AstraZeneca
said in statement today. As a result, AstraZeneca will take a
charge of $381.5 million in the fourth quarter.  The company needs new products as patents expire in the
next four years on the heartburn drug Nexium and the
antipsychotic Seroquel, which generated a combined $10.3 billion
in revenue last year. AstraZeneca’s Arimidex and Casodex cancer
drugs lost patent protection last year. The failures announced
today means the company may need to change its strategy and
pursue more development deals, said  Alistair Campbell , an
analyst at Berenberg Bank in London.  “AstraZeneca seems to have had more than its fair share of
misfortune when it comes to the development pipeline,” analysts
at  Barclays Capital  in London wrote in a note to investors
today. “Additional development failures increase the
probability that management will reassess the likely return on
investment from additional R&D investment and cut costs
further.”  AstraZeneca dropped 1.5 percent to 2,905 pence at the close
of London trading.  Acquired Drugs  The U.K. drugmaker acquired olaparib when it bought KuDOS
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. in 2006 for $210 million. AstraZeneca said
in January that it had shifted the focus of olaparib’s
development to ovarian cancer from  breast cancer .  AstraZeneca had licensed the depression treatment from
 Targacept Inc. (TRGT)  in 2009 in a deal valued at as much as $1.24
billion. The companies said last month the compound failed to
meet the main goal of its first trial, prompting Targacept
shares to fall 60 percent in  New York  trading.  Targacept declined 36 percent to $4.99 in New York.  AstraZeneca will continue to investigate olaparib in other
types of cancer and will pursue three more late-stage studies on
TC-5214, the anti-depressant, said Isabelle Jouin, a spokeswoman
in London.  Innovation Focus  “We continue to believe in our focus on innovation, both
home-grown and, increasingly, by accessing the best of external
science through partnering, collaborations and in-licensing,”
Jouin said. “In terms of acquisitions, we’ve said all along
that we are not looking for scale but would consider small,
bolt-on acquisitions so long as there is a good strategic fit.”  Core earnings per share for the year will probably be “in
the lower half” of a $7.20 to $7.40 forecast, which remains
unchanged after the research setbacks, the drugmaker said.  “It’s a setback in a pipeline that’s already relatively
thin, at a company that does need pipeline products because of
the patent expiries on the horizon,” Campbell said. “There are
still some pipeline options, though I have to say my hopes
aren’t high for many of those.”  Two drugs that show promise are fostamatinib for rheumatoid
arthritis and dapagliflozin for diabetes, Campbell said.  Rigel
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (RIGL)  is AstraZeneca’s partner on fostamatinib,
and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  is its partner on the diabetes
treatment. U.S. regulators in October delayed a decision on
dapagliflozin by three months.  Few drugs in the late-state development pipeline look
promising, with fostamatinib the only potential commercial
success, Barclays’ analysts said. The company expects to file
the drug for approval in the U.S. and  Europe  in 2013.  The company won U.S. clearance of its heart drug Brilinta
in July and in Europe, where it’s sold as Brilique, in December
2010. Sales of the medicine may reach $809 million by 2014,
according to the average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Hallam in  London  at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  