-- AT&T Has Few Weapons for Verizon Fight After Failure of T-Mobile Bid: Tech
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2011-12-20T21:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/at-t-has-few-weapons-for-verizon-fight-after-failure-of-t-mobile-bid-tech.html
The collapse of  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s $39
billion bid for  T-Mobile USA  leaves the second-largest U.S.
mobile carrier with few attractive strategic options as it seeks
to challenge market leader Verizon Wireless.  To accommodate data-usage growth, AT&T argued it needed the
airwaves the T-Mobile USA purchase would have brought. With that
option now unavailable, AT&T can either seek to buy spectrum
from another company, wait for the government to auction more
frequencies or try to squeeze more capacity out of its current
airwaves. Each option is time-consuming, expensive and risky,
said Colby Synesael, a Cowen & Co. analyst in New York.  “Without this deal, it is going to be difficult for
AT&T,” Synesael said. “There’s no clear solution.”  Already  criticized  for dropped calls and network coverage,
AT&T will face more constrained capacity than  Verizon Wireless ,
Synesael said. That may hurt customer growth at a time when
carriers are seeking to sign up lucrative smartphone and tablet
subscribers who will generate revenue for years to come. Earlier
this year, AT&T lost U.S. exclusivity to the Apple Inc. iPhone.  While AT&T focused on winning regulatory approval for the
takeover, rivals negotiated their own airwave deals. That means
several spectrum assets that would have still been available for
AT&T to purchase earlier this year are now off the market.  AT&T abandoned the T-Mobile deal yesterday after a nine-
month campaign that underestimated opposition from regulators.
The  Justice Department  sued to block the deal in August, saying
it would reduce competition. The purchase of T-Mobile from
parent  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  would have vaulted Dallas-based AT&T
past Verizon Wireless as the biggest U.S. mobile carrier.  Wireless Airwaves  Spectrum is a term used for airwaves, licensed by the
government, that carry wireless voice and data signals.
Governments often sell unused or repurposed frequencies to the
highest bidder, and companies also trade them.  Still, AT&T can’t rely on the U.S. government auctioning
new wireless spectrum soon. While lawmakers are working on
legislation that would allow carriers to bid on airwaves
currently held by television broadcasters, no timing for such a
sale has been set.  That leaves AT&T seeking spectrum holders willing to sell.
However, any such attempts became more difficult in the past few
weeks because purchases by rivals reduced the amount available.  Rivals’ Moves  On Dec. 1, wholesale wireless-service provider and
spectrum-owner  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  secured its ties with partner
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  through a financing and network-sharing
agreement. Sprint, the No. 3 carrier, reserved rights to bid
Clearwire’s spectrum if other offers were made.  That move was followed by Verizon Wireless’s $3.6 billion
deal to acquire airwaves held mostly by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , something Synesael called “a real coup.”
Verizon Wireless, co-owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and
Vodafone Group Plc, and the cable companies will also market and
sell each other’s services under the agreement.  The deal, combined with one struck with Cox Communications
Inc., means Verizon Wireless will have “the highest-quality and
deepest 4G spectrum position among the major U.S. carriers,”
John Hodulik, a UBS AG analyst, said in a research note. It will
have 56 percent more 4G spectrum than AT&T in the top 10 markets
and 46 percent more in the top 100, giving it a “meaningful
competitive advantage,” Hodulik said. AT&T has 100.7 million
subscribers, trailing Verizon Wireless’s 107.7 million.  AT&T may now seek to buy  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , a satellite-TV
provider that owns spectrum, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. said today.
Dish said this month it isn’t interested in selling its airwaves
and that it may partner with T-Mobile if AT&T’s bid fails.  Spending Through It  AT&T, down 32 percent since a 2007 high, added 1.3 percent
to $29.12 at the close in New York. It has lost almost 1 percent
this year, while Verizon Communications has risen 9.6 percent.  Among AT&T’s other “very limited options” is an attempt
to squeeze more performance out of its network, said  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in  Chicago . That
investment would require building more cell-phone towers and
adding more  network equipment  on the existing airwaves. That
increases the number of antennas so more people are served
through the same spectrum.  “With the lack of more spectrum, they can split cell sites
and spend their way through it,” Fritzsche said.  That would require AT&T to boost spending at a time when it
also has to compensate Deutsche Telekom for the deal’s demise.
Deutsche Telekom has said it values the breakup package at as
much as $7 billion, including lower charges for its customers to
terminate calls on AT&T’s network. AT&T said yesterday it took a
$4 billion pretax charge for the deal’s failure.  The solution of adding network gear would also be a
shorter-term solution and not solve the longer-term spectrum
crunch, Fritzsche said.  Risk to Investors  Citing the potential for increased spending,  Fitch Ratings 
issued a report last week pointing to the possible risks to
investors.  “AT&T’s need to enhance its capacity could lead to a rise
in  capital spending  and/or the acquisition of spectrum through
other transactions,” the credit-rating company said.  AT&T had more than $70 billion of debt at the end of the
third quarter and capital expenditures rose to $14.7 billion in
the first nine months of the year, from $13.7 billion in the
same period a year earlier.  While the T-Mobile acquisition would have also represented
a large investment, the deal would have included benefits such
as additional customers and revenue, a network and possible cost
savings from combined operations and job cuts.  Kevin Smithen, a Macquarie Capital USA Inc. analyst who
downgraded AT&T to “sell” from “hold” last week on concern
that the company has lost ground, said Verizon Wireless now has
a spectrum advantage as customers move to faster networks.  “AT&T is running out of options,” Smithen said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  