-- AT&T-T-Mobile USA Merger Foes Welcome Failure of Derided Takeover Deal
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2011-12-20T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/at-t-t-mobile-usa-merger-foes-welcome-failure-of-derided-39-billion-deal.html
Opponents of  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed
$39 billion acquisition of  T-Mobile USA (DTE)  cheered news that the
deal was scrapped.  AT&T said yesterday that it’s abandoning the plan after
failing to convince the U.S. Justice Department that creating
the largest U.S. wireless carrier wouldn’t hamper competition.  Foes began lining up against the proposal from the time it
was unveiled in March. Rivals, legislators and consumer
advocates said the combination would harm consumers and stifle
innovation. Sprint Nextel Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  was among the most vocal, shuttling regularly from his
company’s headquarters in  Overland Park ,  Kansas , to Washington,
to lobby lawmakers and testify in Congress.  “From the beginning, Sprint has stood with consumers who
spoke loudly and clearly that AT&T’s proposed takeover of T-
Mobile would create an undeniable duopoly that would have
resulted in higher prices, less innovation and fewer choices for
the American consumer,” Vonya McCann, a senior vice president
at Sprint Nextel, said in a statement yesterday.  Sprint Nextel gained 6.5 percent to $2.30 in late trading
yesterday after the announcement.  Sprint sued to block the deal in September, days after the
 Justice Department   filed  an antitrust lawsuit against the
proposal.  “Consumers won today,” Sharis Pozen, acting assistant
attorney general for the Justice Department’s antitrust
division, said in a statement.  ‘Teetering’ Industry  “Had AT&T acquired T-Mobile, consumers in the wireless
marketplace would have faced higher prices and reduced
innovation,” she continued. “We sued to protect consumers who
rely on competition in this important industry. With the
parties’ abandonment, we achieved that result.”  Carriers in less populated regions of the U.S. said they
would have been especially vulnerable to anticompetitive
behavior by an enlarged AT&T. The Rural Cellular Association,
which represents smaller service providers, filed a letter in
May with the  U.S. Federal Communications Commission , saying that
the wireless industry is “teetering on the brink of true
duopoly” that could hurt smaller companies.  “I am pleased that AT&T dropped its bid to acquire T-
Mobile, but competitive concerns still remain,” Steven Berry,
Chief Executive of the Rural Cellular Association, said in a
 statement . “The FCC must ensure a wireless ecosystem that is
fueled by competitive policies.”  Higher Prices Averted  The FCC wants a competitive market that drives innovation
and creates jobs,  Julius Genachowski , the agency’ s (S)  chairman,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “This deal would have done the opposite,” Genachowski
said.  Consumer advocates opposed the deal as well, arguing that
the combination would result in higher prices. T-Mobile’s plans
typically cost $15 to $50 per month less than comparable plans
from AT&T, according to  Consumers Union . That disparity would
have vanished had the merger gone through, the group has said.  “Regulators clearly saw through AT&T’s claims of better
service and saw what we saw -- a combined AT&T/T-Mobile would
mean higher prices and fewer choices for consumers,” Parul P.
Desai, policy counsel for Consumers Union, said in yesterday’s
 statement . “It’s an early holiday present for consumers.”  Consumer groups demanded in June that the FCC hold public
hearings outside of  Washington  to hear citizens’ concerns. The
FCC faced heavy lobbying from proponents of the deal.  Lobbying Pressure  “In this age of cynicism, it is important for the American
people to see that Washington does not always go to the highest
bidder,”  Harold Feld , legal director of  Public Knowledge , one
of the groups that pushed for the hearings, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The  Department of Justice  and the Federal
Communications Commission stood up to tremendous lobbying
pressure as AT&T spent tens of millions of dollars trying to
push this merger through.”  Another consumer advocate, Media Access Project, said that
the merger could lead to job losses and store closures.  “Today’s announcement proves that law trumps politics,”
Andrew Jay Schwartzman, Policy director for Media Access, said
in a Dec. 19  statement . “This anti-competitive transaction
clearly exceeded permissible standards.”  Lawmakers in Washington lined up on both sides of the deal.
In September, some 100 Republican congressmen and 15 Democratic
lawmakers said the Justice Department should let the merger
proceed. Opponents included Senator  Herb Kohl , head of a
Judiciary antitrust subcommittee, who argued against the deal in
a July letter to Attorney General Eric Holder and the FCC’s
Genachowski.  ‘Good Riddance’  “Had this merger gone through it would’ve been a bad deal
for consumers, resulting in higher cell phone bills for
Minnesotans, greatly reduced competition, the potential loss of
thousands of jobs, and less innovation in technology,” Senator
 Al Franken , a Democrat from  Minnesota , said in a  statement 
yesterday. “Wireless telecommunication plays a central role in
the 21st century American economy, and I’m relieved that we are
no longer at risk of concentrating such enormous power in the
hands of AT&T and  Verizon. (VZ) ”  Amid the heavy opposition and signs of regulators’
displeasure, speculation mounted in recent months that the deal
would collapse.  “This deal has been as good as dead for months because the
facts never matched AT&T’s fabrications about the benefits of
the merger,” Craig Aaron, president of nonprofit Free Press,
said in a  statement . “As the public, the Justice Department and
the FCC long ago recognized -- and now even AT&T must admit --
this deal would have only meant higher prices, fewer choices and
tens of thousands of lost American jobs. Good riddance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 Tgiles5@bloomberg.net  