-- AT&T’s Past Success Blinds It in T-Mobile Bid, Lawyers Say
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2011-12-20T20:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/at-t-s-past-success-with-deals-blinded-it-in-bid-for-t-mobile-lawyers-say.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , blinded by past success
in winning U.S. approval for its mergers and acquisitions,
relied too much on lobbying and public relations in its $39
billion bid for  T-Mobile USA  while underestimating the resolve
of the government, according to lawyers, consumer advocates and
market analysts.  From the start, the company didn’t detect evolving concern
in  Washington  about consolidation in the wireless
telecommunications market, they said.  When the  Justice Department  and the Federal Communications
Commission opposed the planned purchase, AT&T’s multimillion-
dollar lobbying effort proved no substitute for a legal remedy,
said Jeffrey Jacobovitz, an antitrust litigator with McCarthy,
Sweeney & Harkaway PC in Washington.  “A number of unexpected things went against them,”
Jacobovitz said in an interview. “First, that the Justice
Department would sue; second, that the FCC would move against
them; third, that they would get no sympathy from a federal
judge; and fourth that their efforts to propose a ‘Plan B’ to
the Justice Department wouldn’t work either.”  AT&T concluded yesterday its campaign for T-Mobile had been
a failure, abandoning plans for the purchase and taking a pretax
charge of $4 billion to reflect cash payments and other
considerations due to  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , T-Mobile’s parent.  The decision came after the judge in the Justice
Department’s lawsuit to block the deal agreed on Dec. 12 to put
the case on hold as the phone company decided whether or how to
revise the transaction. The delay may have made it more
difficult for AT&T to close the deal by the Sept. 20 deadline.  The Justice Department today dismissed its lawsuit against
AT&T with a one-sentence motion filed in federal court in
Washington. The states that joined the government’s case also
signed onto the dismissal.  Bright Prospects?  The acquisition’s prospects looked brighter when AT&T
announced the deal in March, telecommunications analysts said.
The T-Mobile bid capped a period of acquisitions in the
communications industry that stretched back to the 1990s.  In 2005, SBC Communications Inc. bought AT&T for $22
billion, renaming the combined entity AT&T Inc. Two years later,
AT&T bought Dobson Communications for $2.8 billion, and last
year the company agreed to buy radio spectrum from  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) 
for $1.93 billion.  Even as President  Barack Obama  said he would tighten
 government regulation  and antitrust enforcement, in particular,
the administration had shown no appetite to try to block
significant deals.  Christine Varney , head of the Justice Department’s
Antitrust Division until August, had been willing to approve
controversial acquisitions with conditions.  Open to Compromise  That made the trust-busting unit more of a regulator and
open to compromise, according to Bert Foer, the president of the
American Antitrust Institute in Washington. Deals approved, with
conditions, in the past two years included Google’s $700 million
purchase of ITA Software Inc., a maker of travel information
software,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s purchase of  NBC Universal  in January
and Ticketmaster Entertainment Inc.’s merger with Live Nation
Inc. in January 2010.  During the  Bush administration , the department didn’t file
a single monopolization case and the number of investigations
dropped to eight from an annual average of 12 during the Clinton
administration, according to the American Antitrust Institute.  “It’s a mistake to rely on the Justice Department and FCC
to be wooden agencies that are slow to respond and don’t know
how to dance,” said Allen Grunes, a lawyer for  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH) , which opposed the deal. “Once the department decides to
litigate, its goal is to win, just like anyone else.”  Experienced Team  AT&T had assembled an experienced team to ease the T-Mobile
deal toward approval. D.  Wayne Watts , AT&T’s general counsel,
had overseen or worked on mergers and acquisitions involving
AT&T and its predecessor SBC since 1995, according to AT&T’s
website.  For outside counsel, AT&T turned to Richard Rosen, a
partner at  Arnold & Porter LLP  in Washington. A former Justice
Department official, Rosen had represented AT&T and SBC
Communications in several acquisitions, including AT&T’s
acquisition of Cingular Wireless and AT&T’s Dobson purchase.  T-Mobile hired George Cary, former deputy director of the
Federal Trade Commission’s Bureau of Competition. As a
Washington-based lawyer at  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP ,
Cary represented  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  in its purchase of Union
Carbide. He also represented Time Warner Inc. in its merger with
AOL Inc. and SmithKline Beecham Ltd. in its merger with Glaxo
Wellcome PLC.  ‘Smartest Antitrust Lawyers’  “Rich and George are two of the smartest antitrust lawyers
in the country,” Steven Newborn, an antitrust partner at  Weil
Gotshal & Manges LLP , said in an interview. “I’m certain their
advice to AT&T and T-Mobile was that this merger was going to
run into deep, deep headwinds.”  Perennially one of the biggest spenders on lobbying, AT&T
revved up its effort to build public support for the T-Mobile
purchase. The company raised its lobbying expenditures 28
percent to $16 million from Jan. 1 through Sept. 30, compared
with $12.5 million for the same period last year.  T-Mobile boosted its spending by 65 percent, to $2.8
million during the first nine months of 2011 from $1.7 million
in 2010, according to filings.  The groups that AT&T mobilized to push for the deal
stretched from the United States Cattlemen’s Association to the
Louisiana Ballooning Foundation.  Lawmakers were feted at Washington restaurants offering $52
steaks and a $15 “Lobbyist Libation” made of gin and cucumber
puree.  Commissioner Calls  Former  FCC (7296)  Chairman Richard Wiley said he called four of
five FCC commissioners on Deutsche Telekom’s behalf on March 20
before the deal was announced. On the same day, AT&T Chief
Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  spoke with FCC Chairman
 Julius Genachowski , said an agency official who declined to be
identified because the contact hasn’t been public.  There were signs the deal was in trouble early on, lawyers
and analysts said. The Justice Department sent out its demand
for more information, known as a second request, 10 days before
it normally did in such cases, a person familiar with the matter
said. The FCC hired for the case Renata Hesse, who had
represented the Justice Department in its failed attempt to
block  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s acquisition of Peoplesoft Inc.  Still, AT&T officials didn’t pick up on the signals. On
Aug. 30, Justice Department officials met with AT&T and T-Mobile
lawyers, hoping -- and failing -- to get a detailed remedy that
would address their concerns about the deal. The next morning,
Stephenson said in a television interview that he expected the
acquisition to be approved in the first quarter of 2012.  Lawsuit Filed  An hour later, his lawyers received a call from the Justice
Department that the government was suing to block the
transaction.  The Justice Department then hired Glenn Pomerantz, a Los
Angeles-based partner at Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP, to bolster
its trial team and  AT&T proposed to the Justice Department several ways to
divest T-Mobile assets to address the government’s concerns that
the deal would hurt competition in the wireless market, two
people familiar with the matter said. Eventually, the company
realized the department’s demand for divestment was too much to
make the acquisition worthwhile, said the people, who asked for
anonymity because they lacked authorization to speak publicly.  Last month, the FCC weighed in and said AT&T had failed to
demonstrate the public benefits of the acquisition. In response,
AT&T pulled its application for the agency’s approval of the
purchase.  Meet the Deadline  U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle said by withdrawing
the application AT&T might have made it impossible to meet the
deadline for the deal and a trial would be a waste of time. She
responded to AT&T’s lawyers’ argument that they needed a court
victory to go back to the FCC by saying she wanted to make sure
“we’re not being spun.”  AT&T began to decide there were too many barriers to
getting the deal done, a person familiar with the matter said.  “They couldn’t imagine regulators actually standing up to
them, since it had been so long since they had seen it,” Craig Aaron, president of the policy group Free Press, said in an
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  