-- At Wal-Mart a Microcosm of U.S. Inequalities: Jeffrey Goldberg
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2011-12-20T00:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/at-wal-mart-a-microcosm-of-u-s-inequalities-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Last week, in a column about
the new billion-dollar Crystal Bridges Museum of American
Art in Bentonville, Arkansas, I mentioned an economist’s
 estimate  that the heirs of  Sam Walton , the founder of Wal-
Mart Stores Inc., are collectively worth about the same as
the bottom 30 percent of all Americans. Alice Walton, who
founded the museum, is herself worth about $21 billion.  This imbalance wouldn’t seem so stark if Wal-Mart,
whose stock makes up much of the Walton family’s wealth,
hadn’t made itself into the world’s largest retailer in
part by paying its workers so poorly, and by providing them
with only the stingiest health-care benefits -- or none at
all.  After  the column  appeared, I received many e-mails
from Wal-Mart workers. Most noted the dissonance between
their lifestyles and that of Alice Walton and her siblings.  There were also some criticisms of the column. Felix Salmon, a blogger, took issue with the statistic showing
that the six Walton heirs are worth more than the bottom
100 million or so Americans.  He  wrote : “This sounds outrageous, until you stop for
a second and take note of the fact that  Jeffrey Goldberg ,
individually, has a net worth greater than the bottom 25%
of all Americans. According to the latest data we have,
24.8% of American households had zero or negative net worth
-- add them all together, and get zero. Jeffrey Goldberg’s
net worth, it’s safe to say, is greater than zero.”  Categories of Wealth  Although it’s true that I have a net worth, and that I
might very well be in the 2 percent (based on an exhaustive
analysis of my checking account and my anemic 401(k), I
don’t believe I would qualify for membership in the 1
percent), I’m not sure that Salmon’s implicit argument --
that Alice Walton, like Jeffrey Goldberg, is rich, so
what’s the big deal? -- would carry weight with those who
recognize the existence of different categories of wealth.  And it seems as though Salmon is inadvertently
buttressing the argument, made by the Occupy Wall Street
movement among others, that something is awry in the U.S.
when a quarter of all Americans have no net worth at all
and Alice Walton has $21 billion in inherited wealth.  Salmon makes other, more interesting points. He
questions whether Walton could influence  Wal-Mart (WMT) ’s
management to raise wages. “Maybe she could; I’m not
convinced,” he writes. “But here’s the thing: In what way
does building a beautiful museum prevent her from doing
just that? The only way, it seems to me, is if we’re in
some kind of zero-sum game, here, where the alternative to
building the museum would be for Walton to take the money
she would otherwise have spent on Crystal Bridges, and give
it directly to Walmart workers.”  I don’t know what prevents Walton from arguing on
behalf of Wal-Mart’s underpaid women (underpaid,  according
to one study , even in relation to their male colleagues). I
have no doubt that Sam Walton’s daughter could get herself
a respectful hearing with current management. But I’ve
never heard even the faintest suggestion that she has taken
an interest in the lives of the people who work at her
father’s stores. If she sponsored an art museum as well as
a network of day-care centers for Wal-Mart employees, or a
fleet of mobile dental clinics, well, I don’t think my
complaints would have quite as much salience.  Giving Something Back  To my surprise, not even her art museum seems to take
an interest in the lives of Wal-Mart employees. I asked the
museum’s executive director, Don Bacigalupi, if he planned
to provide local Wal-Mart workers with opportunities to
learn more about art.  “We’re certainly delighted to welcome professional
visitors from all over the workforce here in northwest
 Arkansas  and elsewhere,” he said, “but I don’t know how to
answer the question.”  I explained further, asking if he would institute
cultural programs that might give something back to the
workers who make Wal-Mart so profitable.  “No,” he said. “Our populations are people who work in
all kinds of industries. They are all welcome to come.”  Indifference to Wal-Mart, even a kind of disdain,
permeates the  museum . At the gift shop, which sells Alessi
sugar bowls for $90, wine and cheese totes for $61.95 and
handmade belts for $850, I noted to a saleswoman that most
of the shop’s offerings seemed beyond the reach of Wal-Mart
employees.  “Well, this isn’t a Wal-Mart,” she said. Maybe, I
suggested, the museum should open a mini-Wal-Mart on site
with more affordable  Chinese-made  decorative items.  “That would be terrible,” she said. “This isn’t a
place for commercialism.”  After I left the museum, I visited a couple of nearby
Wal-Marts to see what the rank-and-file thought of Alice
Walton’s vanity project. At the Springdale, Arkansas, Wal-
Mart, I couldn’t find a single employee who had visited the
museum, or was contemplating visiting it. One worker I met
in the parking lot said that the museum wasn’t meant for
Wal-Mart workers. Others were resentful. One middle-aged
woman noted how odd it was that the Wal-Mart heirs could
spend so much on paintings but Wal-Mart workers couldn’t
get health-care benefits. “ Merry Christmas ,” she said.  Many Wal-Mart employees I spoke to had only the
foggiest understanding of the  relationship  between their
labors and Alice Walton’s wealth. A 21-year-old part-time
employee I spoke to had no idea who Alice Walton was. I
explained that she was Sam Walton’s daughter, and that she
and her siblings owned roughly half the company. “Half of
Wal-Mart?” he asked, a look of shock on his face. “Man,
they must be millionaires.”  (Jeffrey Goldberg is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the second in a two-part
series.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 