-- Aussie Rallies as RBA Minutes Note Domestic Growth; Kiwi Gains on Stocks
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2011-12-20T18:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/aussie-rallies-as-rba-minutes-note-domestic-growth-kiwi-gains-on-stocks.html
The Australian dollar rose as stocks
rallied and minutes of the central bank’s last meeting showed
policy makers saw a continued expansion in the domestic economy
even as  Europe ’s debt crisis weighs on global growth.  The  New Zealand dollar  strengthened to the highest in more
than a week before a report forecast to show the country’s
economic expansion accelerated in the third quarter. The  Reserve
Bank  of Australia had cited the effects of Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis on the global economy when it decided cut rates for
a second straight month on Dec. 6.  “There may not be enough dovishness in the minutes” to
signal further  interest-rate  cuts, said  Annette Beacher , head of
research at TD Securities in Singapore. “Too much is priced in
already. They’re making sure that the market doesn’t run away.”  The Australian dollar gained 1.8 percent to $1.0074 at 1:27
p.m. New York time after dropping 0.9 percent yesterday. The
currency rose 1.4 percent to 78.35 yen.  New Zealand ’s dollar strengthened 1.9 percent to 77.00 U.S.
cents. It touched 77.17 U.S. cents, the highest since Dec. 12.
The so-called kiwi added 1.6 percent to 59.88 yen.  The MSCI World Index of stocks rose 2.4 percent while
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 2.8 percent, its biggest daily
gain this month.  RBA Minutes  Australia’s central bank lowered its key interest rate to
4.25 percent from 4.50 percent this month because risks to
global growth from Europe’s sovereign crisis overshadowed
evidence the nation’s mining boom is intensifying, according to
minutes released today of the meeting.  “There had been further evidence that a major investment
boom was in progress and the overall economy was expanding,”
the minutes said. “ Australia ’s main trading partners were also
still recording solid growth. This did not suggest any strong
need to cut interest rates.”  The New York-based Conference Board’s index of Australia’s
leading economic indicators added 0.6 percent in October from a
revised 0.6 percent gain in September. The index of coincident
indicators, which is a gauge of the current growth rate, rose
0.3 percent.  New Zealand’s  gross domestic product  expanded 0.6 percent
in the third quarter from the previous three months, according
to the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
before  Statistics New Zealand  reports its figures on Dec. 22.
GDP rose by 0.1 percent in the second quarter.  New Zealand’s GDP “will be a relatively positive number,
so you will see some  money flow  into the kiwi,” said Alex Sinton, a senior dealer at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Auckland.
“There are buyers and profit takers on the downside for the
kiwi and Aussie.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  