-- JPMorgan Seeks to Trade Claims on Bankrupt MF Global
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2011-12-20T22:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/bank-of-america-can-trade-mf-global-claims-judge-says-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co., a lender to
bankrupt  MF Global Holdings Ltd ., asked a judge if it can trade
claims on the company, including its bank loans and 6.25 percent
bonds.  The biggest U.S. bank asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn, who is handling the bankruptcy, to create a so-called
safe harbor so that its trading isn’t deemed to violate its duty
as a member of MF Global’s creditors committee, and its claims
aren’t disallowed.  Like fellow committee members  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
Elliott Management Corp. who sought permission to trade MF
Global claims, JPMorgan said it would have “ethical walls” to
ensure that knowledge it gains from being on the committee
doesn’t reach its traders, it said in a court filing today.  “Although JPMorgan owes fiduciary duties to the unsecured
claimholders of these estates, it also has fiduciary duties to
maximize returns to its respective clients,” including pension
funds and high-net-worth individuals whose money it manages, the
bank said.  Glenn gave his approval in an order issued today to Bank of
America for its trades in MF Global claims, saying he would
“take action” if there were any violations.  Such requests are common among banks and  hedge funds  that
have loans and investments in bankrupt companies along with
separate trading desks. Elliott sought and got permission to
trade claims in the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. case, where it
also is a member of the creditors’ committee.  MF Global’s $325 million of 6.25 percent notes traded at 33
cents on the dollar on Dec. 19, according to Trace, the bond
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The debt, issued at par in August, has declined from
50 cents on the dollar since the company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy
filing. The bonds have declined from 35 cents at the end of
November.  The parent’s bankruptcy case is MF Global Holdings Ltd.,
11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New
York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  