-- Bank of Ireland Wins EU Approval for Irish Government Aid
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2011-12-20T11:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/bank-of-ireland-wins-european-union-approval-for-irish-state-aid.html
Bank of Ireland Plc (BKIR)  won European
Union approval for Irish government help after it agreed to
reduce reliance on wholesale funding and focus on “balanced-
risk” lending in Britain and Ireland.  The European Commission authorized Irish government
recapitalizations, guarantees and asset relief after the bank
made plans to “substantially deleverage its balance sheet to
reduce its dependency on wholesale funding,” exit risky
portfolios and implement better risk management, regulators said
in a statement today. The bank will also offer services to small
Irish banks to reduce rivals’ costs.  “Bank of Ireland has embarked on an ambitious plan to
downsize and refocus its activities to better serve the Irish
economy,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in
the statement. “This plan has attracted private investors and
significantly reduced the need for public support.”  Regulators must approve large state payments to lenders
that needed help during the financial crisis and has required
banks to shrink balance sheets and change the way they do
business to compensate for any harm to competition. Bank of
Ireland and  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the country’s two biggest
lenders, require “close surveillance” because they will
control the Irish market after receiving bailouts,Almunia said
in June.  Restructuring Blueprint  The bank said in June that it intended to reverse plans to
sell its ICS Building Society unit under its revised EU
restructuring program. It also said it would delay the sale
of its New Ireland life assurance unit. The EU ordered the bank
to sell both divisions as part of its original restructuring
blueprint, approved in July 2010.  Bank of Ireland said the today’s EU requirements “are
consistent with those set out in the prospectus published on
June 18” and that the lender “continues to make good progress
in implementing the commitments” of its restructuring plan,
according to an e-mailed statement.  The Irish government has “committed to a number of market
opening measures in order to enhance competition” in Irish
banking, including ways to help customers to move between banks,
the EU said.  The Brussels-based commission separately approved a
resolution program for Irish  credit unions  until the end of June
2012. The program ensures that credit unions contribute to the
wind-down costs and will prevent a buyer from gaining “an undue
economic advantage through the acquisition of underpriced
assets,” the EU said.  Bank of Ireland is alone among the country’s six largest
lenders in escaping government control, after the state agreed
July 27 to sell a 34.9 percent stake to five investors,
including Toronto-based Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. and WL
Ross & Co., the New York-based investment firm. The bank was
ordered to raise 5.2 billion euros of capital following stress
tests in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 