-- Bean Says BOE Will Add to Bond Purchases If Needed in February
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-12-20T14:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/bean-says-boe-will-add-to-bond-purchases-if-needed-in-february.html
Bank of England  Deputy Governor
 Charles Bean  said policy makers will “take stock” of their
current round of stimulus when it ends in February and are ready
to increase their bond-purchase target if necessary.  “If we feel it’s necessary to inject further stimulus into
the economy to keep nominal spending growing and prevent
inflation falling too low two or three years out, then we will
certainly be willing to do more,” Bean said in an interview on
BBC Radio 4 today. “But we don’t really need to prejudge that
now. We can wait and see what has happened by February.”  Bean also said the euro-area debt crisis is “worrying”
and there is a risk that a country may want to leave the
currency region. Still, he said the central bank has a “number
of things” it could do in response, such as providing temporary
loans to banks and increasing bond purchases further.  “It’s clearly a worrying situation,” Bean said. “It’s
clearly something that countries eventually may feel that
they’re better off outside the  euro zone  than in it,” he said,
adding that this would be a “costly direction.”  “If there are serious storms coming from across the
channel that we have to cope with, there are a number things we
can do,” he said.  The Bank of England cut its economic forecasts last month,
and Bean said today that growth in the early part of 2012 is
likely to be “pretty flat.” In an interview with the Evening
Standard published today, his colleague Ben Broadbent said
there’s a “material chance of a technical recession” in the
U.K., which would be two consecutive quarters of contraction.  Contraction Risk  “It’s always possible for there to be a contraction in
activity,” Bean said. “The broad picture is likely to be
output pretty flat, but as we go through next year, inflation
should be coming down quite sharply and that will help to boost
the rate of growth of households’ real incomes and help to
support  consumer spending . The second half of next year, we
should see some return to growth.”  The central bank increased its  bond-buying program  by 75
billion pounds ($118 billion) to 275 billion pounds in October
and kept the target unchanged on Dec. 8. Minutes of the December
meeting to be published tomorrow will show how the nine-member
Monetary Policy Committee voted.  “The current program of 75 billion of purchases will take
us through to late January, early February,” Bean said. “At
the February meeting, we can take stock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  