-- BMW-Audi Battle Turning on China Supplanting Germany as No. 2 Market: Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-20T23:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/bmw-audi-battle-hinges-on-china-luxury-market.html
China  may overtake  Germany  as the
world’s second-largest market for luxury cars behind the U.S.
this year, fueled by demand for the two brands that are fighting
for leadership in the category: BMW and Audi.  The number of luxury cars sold in China may climb 39
percent to 939,000 in 2011, exceeding the 914,000 vehicles that
will probably be delivered in Germany, Jenny Gu, a Shanghai-
based analyst at research firm LMC Automotive, said in an
interview yesterday. Sales in China will probably increase 16
percent next year, outpacing Germany’s 4.4 percent growth, she
said.  The largest luxury carmakers -- Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and Volkswagen AG’s Audi -- are
counting on China and the U.S. to fuel expansion next year as
economists at Barclays Plc estimate  Europe  may be in recession
through the first half of 2012. The German car market, Europe’s
largest, probably won’t grow next year as the debt crisis saps
 consumer confidence , auto-industry association VDA said this
month. The growing affluence of Chinese consumers has fueled
demand for  luxury goods , though that market has cooled.  “Luxury car demand is still on the rise in China with low
penetration rates,” said LMC’s Gu. “Sales of such cars in
developed markets like Germany fluctuate together with the
economic cycle.”  Luxury Leader  Audi, the luxury-car sales leader in China, needs the
country to help meet a target of surpassing BMW as the global No.
1 in 2015. Audi surpassed Daimler this year as the second-
largest luxury-car maker.  All three luxury-auto makers posted record November sales
in China. Audi soared 69 percent over last year,  BMW (BMW)  rose 9.8
percent and Mercedes gained 24 percent. Industry-wide sales in
Europe of all cars last month fell 3 percent.  Audi’s 11-month sales in China have advanced 35 percent to
283,600. BMW through November has climbed 40 percent to 200,699,
while Mercedes has gained 31 percent to 170,112.  To cope with demand growth in China, BMW, Daimler and Audi
plan to limit holiday breaks for the second year in a row. BMW
and Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz will shut most plants for just one
week between Christmas and New Year’s Day, while Audi will close
European plants for two weeks, the carmakers said earlier this
month. The automakers lengthened year-end breaks for many
workers to as long as three weeks in 2009 because of lower sales.  The LMC estimates, which track sales of 21 luxury brands
ranging from Audi to Bentley, are preliminary and subject to
change, Gu said. LMC recently raised its 2012 estimates for
China sales to 1.09 million and lowered its forecast for Germany
to 954,000, she said. China overtook the U.S. in terms of
overall car sales in 2009.  In the U.S., the largest luxury-car market, deliveries will
probably climb 18 percent to 1.65 million units as demand
recovers from the projected 1.4 percent growth in 2011, Gu said.  Waiting List  There is a two-month waiting list for the BMW 5 series
long-wheelbase sedan in China, Olaf Kastner, chief executive
officer of BMW’s Chinese venture,  Brilliance China Automotive
Holdings Ltd. (1114) , said in a Dec. 1 interview.  “The premium car industry has enjoyed over the past two to
three years an amazing growth,” said Kastner. “We still, in
the premium segment, will see a higher growth rate than the mass
segment” for next year.  Demand for luxury items in China will reach a record 88.8
billion yuan ($14 billion) in 2011, rising 82 percent since 2005,
according to Euromonitor International estimates.  Car Discounts  Still, sales are slowing as the Chinese economy grows less
quickly. The government this year raised down-payment and
mortgage requirements and imposed home purchase restrictions in
40 cities, resulting in  home prices  last month posting their
worst performance of the year.  Mercedes-Benz and BMW dealers increased discounts on some
models in China last month, according to data from researcher
China Auto Market. Mercedes boosted discounts in the U.S. by 39
percent last month, while BMW increased its incentives 25
percent, according to researcher Autodata Corp. The German
automakers are vying to succeed Toyota’s Lexus as the U.S.
luxury auto-sales leader. Toyota’s output this year has been
limited by natural disasters that disrupted the supply of parts.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  