-- BOE's King Says FPC Needs Proper Powers to Tackle Systemic Risk
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-12-20T10:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/boe-s-king-says-policymakers-needs-proper-powers-to-tackle-systemic-risk.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said the Financial Policy Committee needs sufficient powers to
ensure it can deal with risks to financial stability.  “The committee’s ability to take actions to mitigate
systemic risks will hinge on the powers granted to it by
Parliament,” King said in the forward to a  research paper  on
macroprudential tools published by the central bank in London
today. “Without the right instruments at its disposal, the
committee will not be able to take prompt, effective action.”  The FPC, part of a regulatory overhaul by Britain’s
government, is debating which tools it will need to promote
financial stability once its powers are finally established. It
said this month that risks to U.K. financial stability from the
euro-area debt crisis have increased and “stronger action” is
needed to make banks more resilient to potential shocks.  King said today that the absence of a proper authority to
deal with potential risks was a “significant contributory
factor to the present financial crisis.” He said the FPC has an
“important job to do” and will “fill that void.”  In the paper,  Bank of England  and Financial Services
Authority officials examined 11 possible macroprudential tools
for the FPC, covering three areas: the balance sheets of
financial institutions, terms and conditions of some
transactions and market structures. The central bank is seeking
feedback on the proposals and will make recommendations to the
U.K. Treasury after the March 16 meeting of the FPC.  ‘Key Hurdle’  The officials said that a “key hurdle” to implementing
new tools is that the power of the regulators “may be
constrained by  European Union law ,” such as the draft Capital
Requirements Regulation, which it says is a “maximum
harmonizing regulation.”  “Maximum harmonization of regulatory standards restricts
the discretion for national authorities to tighten regulatory
levers to guard against  systemic risk ,” they said. While common
minimum standards will help avoid a “race to the bottom” in
international rules, they said the rationale for maximum
standards “is not clear from a prudential perspective.”  Among the specific instruments the officials looked at were
countercyclical capital buffers and maximum leverage ratios. On
the former, they said advantages are their simplicity and
ability to “moderate the cycle,” while disadvantages are
“crudeness” and potential for ineffectiveness in some cases.  The officials also examined margining requirements, which
they said could have the positive impact of enhancing the
resilience of funding markets. Still, such tools may be prone to
international arbitrage, the officials said.  The FPC will have the power to make recommendations to the
Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct
Authority, as well as direct them to adjust specific
macroprudential tools where necessary.  “Recommendations are likely to be the most suitable course
of action,” the paper said. “But the power to direct the PRA
or the FCA to make policy changes is a necessary complement to
recommendation powers. Directions could be particularly valuable
in circumstances in which action is required urgently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  