-- Boehner on Defense as Party Revolts on Tax Cut
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2011-12-20T18:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/boehner-on-defensive-again-as-party-rebellion-imperils-tax-cut.html
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  is
finding himself in a familiar and awkward place: facing
accusations that he can’t control his own troops.  The derailment in the House of a deal between Senate
Democrats and Republicans to extend for two months a payroll tax
cut and  unemployment  benefits has sparked criticism of Boehner’s
leadership and exposed rifts within Republican ranks as the
party enters the 2012 election campaign.  “It is yet another slap in the face for John Boehner,”
said  Ross Baker , a political scientist at  Rutgers University  in
New Brunswick,  New Jersey . “He looks like he can’t deliver,”
Baker said, recalling Boehner’s failed talks in July with
President  Barack Obama  for a “grand bargain” to cut spending
and extend the government’s borrowing authority.  During those talks with the president, Boehner, 62,
suggested “very strongly that a deal was in the works, and then
the caucus pulls the rug out from under him,” Baker said. In
this latest fight, the speaker waited until a day after the
Senate voted 89-10 for the tax-cut legislation -- with the
support of 39 Republicans, including minority leader  Mitch McConnell  -- to announce his opposition, following complaints
from House Republican lawmakers about the bill.  The  House of Representatives  today rejected the two-month
extension, 229-193, with House leaders saying the stopgap
measure wouldn’t provide enough certainty for companies. Boehner
asked Obama in a letter to urge the Senate to negotiate toward a
yearlong extension of the tax cut that’s set to expire Dec. 31.  Growing Discontent  The dispute comes a year after Republicans captured control
of the House, fueled by support from anti-tax Tea Party groups.
Confrontations with Democrats have escalated, and polls show
growing public discontent over the gridlock in Congress that
brought the government to the brink of a partial shutdown in
April and default in August.  Four Republican senators --  Olympia Snowe  of Maine, Scott Brown of  Massachusetts , Richard Lugar of  Indiana  and Dean Heller
of Nevada -- yesterday called on the House to pass the payroll
tax-cut extension. All four face the voters next year.  “What is playing out in Washington, D.C., this week is
about political leverage, not about what’s good for the American
people,” Heller said in a statement. “There is no reason to
hold up the short-term extension while a more comprehensive deal
is being worked out,” he said.  ‘Under Enormous Pressure’  “Speaker Boehner is under enormous pressure,” said Lugar,
appearing on  MSNBC  yesterday. “He’s obviously gotten a lot of
feedback from many Republicans who say we just simply don’t
like” the payroll tax cut or the unemployment compensation.  Boehner rejected suggestions that his position was
inconsistent, saying he never supported the short-term extension
of the tax cut and instead favored a year-long continuation of
the measure.  Asked by reporters why he didn’t “raise a red flag” with
Senate Republicans before most of them voted for the short-term
extension, he said, “I raised questions about the two-month
process from the moment that I heard about it.”  He disputed a White House official’s assertion that the
speaker’s assurances that the House would pass the measure were
relayed to the administration after the Senate vote. “There was
never a conversation with the White House,” Boehner said.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said the administration
had assumed that House and Senate Republican leaders were in
accord. “It was certainly our expectation, and we certainly had
reason to believe, that there was support in the House” for the
two-month extension, Carney told reporters yesterday.  ‘A Success’  The speaker acknowledged that he had told colleagues that a
provision in the Senate bill requiring the Obama administration
to decide in 60 days whether to agree to the building of an oil
 pipeline  from  Canada  to  Texas  was “a success.”  And Boehner didn’t voice objections to the two-month
extension at a Dec. 16 news conference, when he warned that if
the Senate omitted the pipeline provision, “we will make
changes” in the legislation.  Asked about his failure to mention his problem with the 60-
day timetable for the tax cut, Boehner’s spokesman,  Michael Steel , said, “rather than negotiating in the press,” the
speaker cited the pipeline provision “as an example of what we
need” in the Senate measure.  Shared Disappointment  House Republicans  emerged from a caucus last night prepared
to move on a one-year measure. Some lawmakers praised Boehner,
including Representative Ann Marie Buerkle, a freshman from  New
York .  “He was very open to our response” during a 90-minute
conference call held Dec. 17 after the Senate passed the
measure, she said. “The leadership just shared the same
disappointment we felt.”  At the outset of that conference call, Boehner told
Republican colleagues he was leaning toward accepting the two-
month extension, instead of the one-year continuation of the
payroll tax cut favored by the House, said a House Republican
leadership aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The
speaker didn’t advocate for that option, the aide said.  House Republican leaders held the call to “get input from
members,” Steel said. “The speaker described three possible
options -- accept the Senate bill, go to conference, or amend
the Senate bill and send it back. We have since decided to go to
conference.”  ‘Very Troubled’  House Republicans criticized the Senate vote, with Tom Reed
of New York saying he was “very troubled about the actions” of
his Republican colleagues. Representative Steve Womack of
 Arkansas  sang “I’ll Be Home for Christmas” in response to a
question about why Senate Republicans agreed to the compromise.  Boehner is being responsive to Republican freshmen as they
become increasingly frustrated by the short-term fixes that have
become a legislative staple in a year dominated by political
stalemates, said Michael Franc, vice president of government
relations at the Republican-leaning Heritage Foundation.  “You have a thoroughly dysfunctional Congress that is
gyrating from one crisis deadline to another,” said Franc.  Franc, who said he has spoken to top House Republican
aides, said Boehner and other leaders in the chamber are “at
ease” over the stand-off with the Senate.  “Boehner isn’t going to try to stand in the way of his
caucus,” he said.  Part of Pattern  Democrats seized on Boehner’s rejection of the Senate
measure as evidence the speaker and his party were captive to
freshman Republicans elected with support of the Tea Party
movement.  “This is part of a pattern that we are seeing where
Speaker Boehner allows the Tea Party wing of his caucus to
sabotage these bipartisan agreements,” Democratic
Representative Chris Van Hollen of  Maryland  said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television.  Recent polls show the public doesn’t like the gridlock in
Congress, and House Republicans are taking a tougher hit than
Democrats.  A Dec. 7-11 Pew Research Center poll found 40 percent of
adults blame Republican leaders for a “do-nothing” Congress,
while 23 percent blame Democrats.  The speaker’s decision to oppose the Senate legislation
also raised questions about whether he was out of sync with
McConnell, the Kentucky Republican who negotiated the two-month
extension with Democratic leaders.  “It has never been the case that the Senate votes at 90
percent, with overwhelming majorities from both parties, without
communication with their counterparts in the House,” White
House spokesman Carney said.  Weakened Hand  Boehner’s rejection of the deal McConnell backed came just
weeks after the Senate minority leader’s hand was weakened in
the debate when 25 Republicans voted against a payroll tax cut
extension plan he offered in the Senate as an alternative to a
Democratic bill that included a surtax on millionaires. The
proposal was rejected, 76-22.  The House’s refusal to agree to the Senate’s deal caught
Senate Republicans off guard, even those like Utah Senator Orrin Hatch who overcame his objection to the payroll-tax cut and
voted for the compromise.  “This is probably a done deal in the House,” Hatch said
on Dec. 17. “It should be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  