-- Bolton Defeats Blackburn to Put Premier League Soccer Rival in Last Place
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2011-12-21T13:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/bolton-beats-blackburn-to-move-out-of-premier-league-bottom-spot.html
(Corrects name in second paragraph.)  Bolton won 2-1 at Blackburn to move
off the bottom of English soccer’s Premier League and leave its
local rival in last place, while Wolves and Norwich drew 2-2.  Mark Davies and Nigel Reo-Coker got Bolton’s goals at  Ewood
Park  last night before Ayegbeni Yakubu replied for the home team
in the 67th minute.  Bolton’s fourth victory of the season lifted it two points
ahead of Blackburn, which fell to its 11th loss in 17 league
matches to increase the pressure on Rovers manager  Steve Kean ,
who has faced organized protests from the club’s fans at games.  “It’s not nice to lose any game, irrespective of what the
fans are saying,” Kean said in an interview with the British
Broadcasting Corp. “We’re feeling it, but we’ll pick ourselves
up and try and be positive.”  Blackburn, which is owned by Indian poultry company Venky’s
Ltd., travels to sixth-place Liverpool and defending champion
 Manchester United  in the next 11 days. Venky’s wasn’t spared the
supporters’ ire last night, with fans holding up banners saying:
“Give us our Rovers back.”  Wolves moved two points clear of the three-team relegation
zone after twice coming from behind to secure the home draw
against Norwich, which remains ninth in the 20-team standings.  Andrew Surman put the visiting team ahead before Sylvan
Ebanks-Blake made it 1-1. Substitute Simeon Jackson restored
Norwich’s lead with his first touch, and Ronald Zubar’s 82nd-
minute header prevented Wolves from slipping to a second home
defeat in four days.  Stoppage-Time Chances  Both teams had stoppage-time chances to win the game.
Wolves striker  Steven Fletcher  had a goal disallowed for offside
and Norwich’s Steve Morison’s shot was blocked. Norwich
goalkeeper John Ruddy then saved a close-range header from Adam
Hammil in the closing seconds.  “It was exciting, captivating and excruciating at times,”
Wolves manager  Mick McCarthy  told the  BBC .  Eight games are scheduled today, including league leader
 Manchester City  against Stoke and Manchester United at Fulham.
Tottenham hosts London rival Chelsea tomorrow in a matchup of
the third- and fourth-place teams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  