-- Borders, Once Second-Largest Bookseller, Wins Approval of Plan to Dissolve
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2011-12-20T16:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/borders-once-second-largest-bookseller-wins-approval-of-plan-to-dissolve.html
Borders Group Inc. , the bankrupt
bookseller, won court approval of the final details of its plans
to dissolve, signaling the end of what was once the U.S.’s
second-largest bookseller.  Borders had already liquidated its remaining 399 stores
from July to September after failing to find a buyer. The 40-
year-old bookstore chain, second only to  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  in
size, had 642 stores when it entered bankruptcy in February.  Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn finalized terms of creditor
repayments today after five remaining objections were resolved.
Liberty Mutual Insurance Company resolved a dispute over
insurance policies, and the State of  Michigan , which had a tax
claim, also resolved its dispute.  “It’s unfortunate that the debtors were unable to
reorganize as a going concern,” Glenn said.  “At the end of the day when it comes time for
confirmation, the story is told by the voting,” said Andrew Glenn, a lawyer for the bankrupt company, and no relation to the
judge. About 98 percent of creditors holding $211.5 million in
debt of Borders Group had voted to accept the plan, according to
court papers, a sign the company had done the right thing, Glenn
said.  Unsecured Creditors  Unsecured creditors with $812 million to $850 million in
claims will recover from 4 percent to 10 percent, probably “at
the higher end of the range,” according to court papers. Andrew
Glenn said today they may even exceed the range slightly.  The projected recovery doesn’t include proceeds from
lawsuits. At most $2 million in secured claims remains and will
be paid in full. Priority tax claims will consume $14 million.  Separately, the company won court approval to sell its 10
percent stake in Kobo Inc. The sale should bring in $27 million
to $32 million if Borders can take advantage of tax laws to
shield the gain, Andrew Glenn said.  Liquidators led by Hilco Merchant Resources and Gordon
Brothers Retail Partners LLC U.S. had made the best offer for
all the company’s inventory in July, after Borders failed to
reach an agreement with the one bidder that offered to keep the
company running, Phoenix-based private-equity firm Najafi Cos.  Inventory Value  The liquidators agreed to pay about 72 percent of the
inventory’s cost value, which was estimated at $350 million to
$395 million. The deal was approved over the objections of 99
landlords and creditors.  Money also came into the estate through a Sept. 14 auction
which sold most of the company’s trademarks and intellectual
property for $13.9 million to Barnes & Noble, based in  New York .
In addition to Borders’ trade names and the database, Barnes &
Noble bought the Waldenbooks and Brentano’s marks. Including
other asset sales, the auction brought in $15.8 million to
Borders’ creditors.  Since the liquidation ended, the company has been resolving
remaining issues with creditors; in November, it resolved a
dispute with  Random House  Inc. by agreeing to give the publisher
an unsecured claim of $800,000. The resolution will let Random
House try to collect as much as $36.4 million.  The final terms of the liquidation approved today will
distribute assets to creditors through a trust, run by a
trustee, Curtis R. Smith, after assets are first distributed to
priority claimants. The company will then dissolve.  Founded in 1971  Borders was based in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, where Tom and
Louis Borders founded the company with one location in 1971. At
its height in 2005, Borders had more than 1,200 bookstores as
far away as  Singapore , 15,000 employees and annual sales of $4
billion.  Barnes & Noble Inc., the largest U.S. book chain, has about
1,341 stores, including 636 college bookstores, according to its
website.  Borders lost business as customers switched to e-readers
such as Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle, introduced in 2007. Barnes &
Noble invested in its own Nook device to attract customers.  The company’s initial Chapter 11 filing had listed assets
of $1.28 billion and liabilities totaling $1.29 billion. Debt
originally included $196 million on a revolving credit and $48.6
million on a  term loan . Trade suppliers were owed $302 million
for inventory.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 