-- Boston-Area Pharmacy Graduate Guilty of Supporting Al-Qaeda
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2011-12-20T18:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/boston-area-pharmacy-grad-convicted-of-supporting-al-qaeda-1-.html
Tarek Mehanna, a pharmacy-school
graduate, was convicted by a federal jury in  Boston  of aiding
al-Qaeda and lying to U.S. authorities about his involvement
with the group.  Mehanna, 29, who earned a doctorate from the  Massachusetts 
College of Pharmacy & Health Science, was found guilty on all
counts against him, including making false statements,
conspiracy to provide material support to a terrorist
organization and conspiracy to kill in a foreign country.  He became an operative for al-Qaeda after traveling to
Yemen in 2004 for terrorist training, prosecutors told the jury
at the beginning of the trial before U.S. District Judge George O’Toole in October. O’Toole set sentencing for April 12, and
defense attorneys said he could be imprisoned for life.  The defendant translated materials for terrorists from
Arabic to English, including an al-Qaeda manual called “39 Ways
to Serve and Participate in Jihad,” or holy war, according to
prosecutors. They also said he lied to government agents about
his reasons for going to Yemen. He wasn’t charged with planning
or trying to carry out any terrorist attacks.  Defense lawyers told the jury that the prosecution by U.S.
Attorney Carmen Ortiz violated their client’s right to free
speech under the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.  ‘Mehanna Had Plans’  “We do not prosecute people for expressing their
beliefs,” Ortiz said in comments to the press after the
verdict. “Mr. Mehanna had plans; his intent was to cause
harm.” She added, “It is vitally important to prevent
incidents of terrorism.”  J.W. Carney, a defense attorney, said he will appeal the
verdict on the ground that the judge allowed the prosecutors to
show the jurors photos of the Sept. 11 attacks and images of
 Osama bin Laden .  “What an appeals court will have to decide is whether the
real motivation for putting that before a jury is to scare them
and prejudice them,” Carney said in an interview. “I think our
jury was affected very negatively by that.”  Mehanna was arrested at his home in Sudbury, Massachusetts,
in October 2009. His father, Ahmed, emigrated from  Egypt  in the
1970s and is a professor at the Massachusetts College of
Pharmacy.  ‘Stunned’  “I am stunned, I can’t even think,” the father said after
the verdict, calling it “political.” Outside the courtroom,
Mehanna’s mother, Souad, sobbed, stomped her feet and wailed.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  said Mehanna and a
friend, Ahmed Abousamra, who met at a mosque when they were
boys, discussed a plot to shoot shoppers at a mall, abandoning
the plan when they couldn’t get weapons. Mehanna isn’t charged
in connection with that alleged plot. Abousamra is a fugitive. A
government witness, Daniel Maldonado, admitted to fighting for
al-Qaeda in Somalia and is serving a 10-year prison sentence.  “He was not convicted for what he did, but for what other
people did,” Janice Bassil, an attorney for Mehanna, said in an
interview.  The case is U.S. v. Mehanna, 09-10017, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at 
 jlawrence@me.com ;
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 