-- BP, Statoil Win Angolan Blocks That May Be Similar to Brazil
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s
-- 2011-12-20T15:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/bp-statoil-win-angola-blocks-that-may-hold-brazil-like-fields.html
BP Plc  and  Statoil ASA (STL)  led companies
in winning the right to explore for oil and gas in pre-salt
blocks in Angola that may be similar to fields found in Brazil.  BP, based in London, and Norway’s Statoil will each operate
two blocks, said Manuel Vicente, chairman of Angola’s state-
owned oil company Sonangol.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Total SA (FP)  will
also run two blocks.  Cobalt International Energy Inc. (CIE) ,  ENI SpA (ENI) ,
and  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  won the right to operate one block each.  The fields, called pre-salt because they may hold oil
trapped under a thick layer of salt, may mirror those across the
Atlantic. The Lula field in Brazil’s pre-salt basin was the
biggest find in the Americas in more than three decades.  “The Angolan pre-salt is a frontier play with high
potential, believed to be analogous to pre-salt  Brazil ,” Tim Dodson, Statoil’s vice-president for exploration, said in a
statement. “Early access to a multiple-block portfolio in
exploring this new play gives Statoil exposure to significant
upside potential should the play be proven.”  China Sonangol International Ltd. joined in five blocks as
a minority partner.  Sonangol said it will invest on an equal footing with its
foreign partners. If commercial discoveries are made on blocks
19, 20, 22, 24, and 25, the operatorship will be transferred to
Sonangol after five years, or after eight years if multiple
discoveries are made, the company said in a statement.  Cobalt, based in Houston, today reported evidence of
hydrocarbons at its first well in the Cameia prospect in  Angola ,
calling the result “encouraging,” and said it’s doing further
studies.  Diamond Offshore Drilling’s Ocean Confidence rig will begin
drilling the first well in Angola’s Bicuar prospect once Cameia
operations are done, it said today in a statement.  As well as shareholdings in four blocks obtained in the
latest licence round, BP said today it agreed to take a 40
percent stake in block 26 in the Benguela Basin from Petroleo
Brasiliero, which operates the block.  Below are the blocks licensed on the left, followed by the
ownership stakes. The first company listed is the operator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Candido Mendes in Luanda at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  