-- BP Solar Business Exit Counters Trend by Google, Buffett, Total
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2011-12-21T12:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/bp-to-shut-down-solar-power-unit-exit-business-spokesman-says.html
BP Plc  is exiting the solar business
after 40 years, countering a trend led by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Warren Buffett  and  Total SA (FP)  of investing in the industry just as
competition drives down the cost of sun-based power.  Europe’s second-largest oil company will wind down the unit
over several months because it has become unprofitable, BP Solar
Chief Executive Officer Mike Petrucci told staff in an internal
letter last week. About 100 employees will be affected.  BP Solar is withdrawing from an industry that’s facing
oversupply and price pressures after Chinese competitors
increased production. Total, Europe’s third-biggest oil company,
Buffett and Google have entered the industry with investments
over the last six months to take advantage of attractive tax
breaks, declining costs and a source of power hedged against
high fossil-fuel prices.  BP’s move is an anomaly with more companies trying to get
involved than are getting out, said  Paul Leming , an analyst with
Ticonderoga Securities LLC analyst in New York.  “Two of the biggest  oil companies  have taken the opposite
approaches,” Leming said in a phone interview. “The move
toward alternative energy continues to be a well-recognized
megatrend.”  BP’s solar equipment venture in  India  with  Tata Power Co. (TPWR) 
is conducting “business as usual,” K. Subramanya, chief
executive of Tata BP Solar India Ltd., said today by phone. BP
owns 51 percent of India’s third-biggest cell and panel maker.
Tata Power, the utility arm of the industrial company that owns
Corus Group and Jaguar Land Rover, declined to comment.  ‘Pretty Dire’  “I can’t speak on behalf of my shareholders,” Subramanya
said from Bangalore. “All I can say is we continue to conduct
our business capably and actively.”  BP, an early entrant into the business, found it difficult
compete against newer rivals, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said
in a note to clients today.  “Manufacturing is looking pretty dire for everyone, and BP
was outpaced by faster moving pure-plays years ago,” the
London-based researcher said. While its move to diversify from
manufacturing into building plants was more successful, “BP had
no obvious competitive advantage apart from access to finance,”
it said.  Panel prices  plunged  48 percent this year, helping tip
three U.S. makers including Solyndra LLC into bankruptcy.  Solon
SE (SOO1) ,  Germany ’s first listed solar company, filed for insolvency
last week.  ‘Making It Difficult’  “The continuing global economic challenges have
significantly impacted the solar industry, making it difficult
to sustain long-term returns for the company,” Petrucci said in
the letter to staff.  BP Solar stopped most of its manufacturing in early 2009,
closing several factories in  Spain  and shedding 480 jobs after
the Spanish market froze, triggering the solar industry’s first
period of strong oversupply. Tata BP’s Subramanya declined to
say at what capacity the India plants are producing equipment.  In July, BP Solar decided to quit manufacturing entirely
and focus on developing large projects. It no longer has
manufacturing plants,  Robert Wine , a spokesman for the London-
based parent, said today by phone.  BP Solar plans to sell its stakes in the more than 158
megawatts of projects it’s developed with local partners in
countries including Italy, Spain, Germany, Britain and the U.S.
The decision will not affect BP’s other renewable energy units,
which include wind power and biofuels, Wine said.  SunPower, Buffett  Paris-based Total bought a 60 percent stake in SunPower
Corp., which makes panels, in April as high natural-gas prices
in  Europe  and increasing concerns about nuclear power sparked
interest in clean energy.  Buffett’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings agreed this month to
buy a $2 billion solar project under development in  California 
and a 49 percent stake in a $1.8 billion plant in Arizona.
Generous solar tax credits valid to 2015 may have lured the
billionaire investor, who already owns wind farms, into his
first solar foray, Gerard Reid, an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd., said on Dec. 7.  Google announced an agreement yesterday with the private
equity firm KKR & Co. to invest in four California solar plants,
bringing the owner of the most popular Internet search engine’s
total investment in clean-energy projects to $915 million,
according to a statement.  Global investment in renewable energy was $195 billion in
2010 and is expected to  more than double  to $395 billion in
2020, according to BNEF.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  