-- Brazil May Take Steps to Prevent ‘Excessive’ Gains in Real, Mantega Says
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-20T02:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/brazil-may-take-steps-to-prevent-excessive-gains-in-real-mantega-says.html
Brazil may take steps to prevent an
“excessive” appreciation of the real to avoid harm to local
industries, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters after
a Mercosur meeting in Montevideo.  “We’ll continue taking measures because a stronger real
damages Brazilian industry,” Mantega said yesterday. “We’ll
make an effort to have a stronger dollar, a weaker real. There’s
not a floor or ceiling but we are worried at certain levels.”  The real has lost 3.1 percent this month, extending its
decline in 2011 to 11 percent. In July, the real strengthened to
a 12-year high of 1.529 per dollar, prompting the government to
impose a 1 percent tax on foreign derivatives. The country’s
central bank is carrying out transactions in dollar futures and
spot markets to weaken the real, Mantega said.  South America ’s biggest economy, which posted its first
decline since the first quarter of 2009 when it contracted 0.04
percent in the third quarter from the previous three months, is
recovering in the last quarter of 2011 and growth will
accelerate next year, Mantega said.  “We have all the tools for economic growth to
accelerate,” he said. “Those who talk about recession in
 Brazil  don’t know what they are talking about.”  The central bank cut borrowing costs by half a point for a
third straight meeting on Nov. 30 as a global economic slowdown
threatens to exacerbate a slump in domestic demand.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
unanimously to reduce the benchmark Selic rate to 11 percent
from 11.5 percent, as forecast by 64 of 65 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. One analyst predicted a full-point cut.  Policy makers said that “by timely mitigating the effects
coming from a more restrictive global environment, a moderate
adjustment in the level of the basic rate is consistent with the
scenario of inflation converging to the target in 2012,”
according to their statement posted on the central bank’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  