-- Brazil Job Growth Last Month Weaker Than Economists Expected as GDP Stalls
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2011-12-20T16:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/brazil-job-growth-last-month-weaker-than-economists-expected-as-gdp-stalls.html
Brazil   created  about half as many
jobs as analysts expected in November after the economy stalled
and weaker global demand for exports pushed the nation’s current
account deficit to a record.  The world’s sixth-largest economy created 42,735 jobs in
the month, the Labor Ministry said, compared with the median
estimate of 80,000 among 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The current account gap widened to $6.8 billion.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is trying to
reinvigorate Brazil’s economy as Europe’s debt crisis deepens
with a mix of tax cuts, interest rate reductions and looser bank
lending requirements. The pace of Brazilian job growth last
month was the slowest this year and the weakest for the month of
November since companies slashed payrolls after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  “The number is really very low, showing significant
fatigue in the jobs market,” said  Andre Perfeito , chief
economist at Gradual Investimentos in  Sao Paulo . “This
complicates the economic outlook for next year. The government
must be very worried about this number.”  Traders in the interest rate futures market boosted bets
that the central bank will lower borrowing costs to bolster
economic growth, pushing the yield on contracts due January 2014
down four basis points, or 0.054 percentage point, to 10.30
percent at 2:00 p.m. Sao Paulo time.  Invigorating the Economy  Economic growth will quicken in 2012, especially in the
second half, fueled by the delayed and cumulative effect of
policy makers’ interest rate cuts, central bank President
Alexandre Tombini told senators today in Brasilia.  Tombini reiterated that inflation will continue to
decelerate in the months ahead and meet the central bank’s 4.5
percent target next year.  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade in goods and services, compares with a $3.1 billion
deficit in October, the central bank said today. Analysts had
forecast a $6.45 billion shortfall, according to the median
estimate of 18 economists polled by Bloomberg.  The deficit will widen further in December to $7.1 billion,
Tulio Maciel, the head of the central bank’s economic research
department, told reporters in Brasilia.  Easily Financed  Foreign direct  investment , which had held up in 2012 as
Brazil develops offshore oil finds and modernizes its
infrastructure ahead of the 2014  World Cup , slowed for the
second straight month to $4.06 billion.  Over the past 12 months, Brazil has received a near-record
$75.4 billion in FDI, the bank said in today’s report.  “The important thing is maintaining the foreign investment
inflows,”  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “It
looks like the current account will continue to be easily
financed by FDI next year as well.”  Brazil’s trade surplus shrank to $583 million in November
from $2.4 billion the month before, the central bank said.
Exports declined to $21.7 billion from $22.1 billion over the
same period, while imports gained to $21.2 billion from $19.8
billion.  Gross domestic product shrank 0.04 percent in the third
quarter from the previous three months, the first such
contraction since the first quarter of 2009.  Local Industry  Brazil’s jobs market has fared better than local industry
as the  Europe  debt crisis hurts business and consumer
confidence.  The  unemployment rate  slid to 5.8 percent in October, a
record low for that month, while  industrial  production declined
1.6 percent in October from the previous year.  The government-registered job creation number is a balance
of posts created minus jobs eliminated. Registered jobs, so-
called formal work, assure employees a range of benefits such as
 unemployment insurance , bonuses and retirement payments by the
government.  Brazil’s retail sales unexpectedly stalled in October as
consumer purchases of clothing and pharmaceuticals declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 