-- British Women’s Triathlon Domination Boosts Sport’s Image, Equipment Sales
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2011-12-20T01:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/british-women-s-triathlon-domination-boosts-sport-s-image-equipment-sales.html
British female triathletes dominated
at every level this year, boosting sales of women’s bikes, shoes
and clothing for companies such as  Oakley Inc.  while bringing in
new sponsors.  Chrissie Wellington won her fourth Ironman World
Championship in October. The success of the 34-year-old has
allowed her to sign sponsor agreements with wetsuit and gear
company TYR Sport Inc., nutritional drink-maker CytoSport,
 Cannondale Bicycle Corp. (BIKEQ)  and Brooks Sports Inc., a shoe and
apparel designer and seller.  Wellington is one of several British women at the top of
the sport. Three of the top four spots were taken by U.K. women
at the Ironman World Championships in October, which combines a
2.4-mile swim, a 112-mile bike ride and a 26.2-mile run.
Sportswear companies are noticing the increase in female
triathletes and boosting product lines and sponsorships, said
 Tom Cannon , a professor at the University of Liverpool.  “Women spend more on clothes and related items than men,”
Cannon said. “If a woman can develop that kind of image or
develop that kind of profile and use it smartly then basically
there’s an awful lot of money in it. If you’re Nike and you
partner with somebody like that you can see a long-term mutually
beneficial business potential.”  Wellington, who co-founded the  GoTRIbal , a website that
links female triathletes to discuss endurance sports, said she
can see the changes in the sport, where manufacturers are
adjusting product lines “so we don’t have to wear men’s cycling
shorts anymore.”  Growth  Sunglasses-maker Oakley Inc., one of Wellington’s sponsors
that’s owned by Milan-based  Luxottica Group SPA (LUX) , has several new
lines out devoted to female athletes, said Scott Bowers, the
company’s senior vice president of global marketing and brand
development.  “We’ve seen a significant growth in” women’s purchases of
Oakley’s products, Bowers said. “That’s a constant -- with any
new trend, women are the leading consumers not only in eyewear
but in clothing sales. They’re more active now than they were
two years ago and we don’t see that slowing down anytime soon.”  Membership in USA Triathlon in 2010 jumped to 133,876 from
21,341 in 2000 and the British Triathlon Federation’s numbers
have more than doubled in the past five years, according to the
organizations’ websites.  The number of females participating at the Ironman World
Championship race has risen to 476 this year from 299 in 2000,
World Triathlon Corp. data show. About 489 women in 2011
completed the championship race for the company’s 70.3-series, a
1.2-mile swim, 56-mile bike ride and 13.1 mile run, up 35
percent from its inception five years ago, according to WTC.  New Races  WTC announced new Ironman races for 2012 in  New York City ,
which will serve as the U.S. championship, and in  Melbourne ,
where the Asia-Pacific championship race is to be held. It also
will have a full-distance race in  Quebec ,  Canada , and plans to
add another in a yet-unannounced locale in  Europe  next year, CEO
Andrew Messick said by telephone.  British athletes who won 13 triathlon, aquathon and
paratriathlon world championships in 2011 are thriving as the
number of multisport clubs in the country increases, said
Wellington, who did her first triathlon after being encouraged
by friends in the Birmingham Running and Triathlon Club.  The groups encourage athletes to get involved and provide
gear and bike discounts, making the sport more affordable, she
said. The country’s culture also plays a part in the athletes’
success, said Lesley Paterson, 31, the 2011 XTERRA World
 Champion , who was born in  Scotland . The British don’t reward
success the same way as in other countries, Paterson said.  “There’s a cultural cynicism whereby people anticipate the
next fall rather than celebrate the rise,” Paterson said.
“This mentality keeps you honest and keeps you working hard.”  Olympic Draw  Helen Jenkins, 27, the winner of the ITU women’s title this
year and one of  Great Britain ’s representatives at the 2012
London Olympics, said the proliferation of the sport make it
easier for athletes to find sponsors.  “Definitely the Olympics raise sponsorship
opportunities,” said Jenkins, who is sponsored by  GE Capital ,
among other companies. “The hope is to get some sponsors from
companies” that aren’t affiliated with sporting goods, she
said.  John Jenkins , GE Capital’s CEO and a triathlete, said
sponsoring Helen Jenkins exposes the company to people it
otherwise wouldn’t reach. It also benefits the company and its
employees, he said. About 100 GE Capital staff members
participated in the Dextro Energy ITU World Championship Series
Race in  London ’s Hyde Park in August, he said.  The sport has become more mainstream in the last five
years, Wellington said. In the past, she said she had to answer
a lot of strange questions when people found out she was the
world champion at the Ironman.  “A few years ago I was speaking and someone asked me if I
pulled trucks,” she said by telephone from her childhood home
near Feltwell,  England . “They thought I was some kind of
strongman. I pull muscles sometimes, but not trucks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ; Danielle Rossingh in London at 
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 