-- U.S. Home Starts Probably Rose in November
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2011-12-20T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/builders-probably-began-work-in-november-on-most-u-s-houses-in-10-months.html
Builders probably began work on more
homes in November, a sign the market may be stabilizing heading
into 2012, economists said before a report today.  Starts  increased 1.1 percent to a 10-month high of 635,000
annual rate last month, according to the median  estimate  of 79
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Permits, a proxy for
future construction, may have fallen from October’s 19-month
high.  Some prospective buyers are being lured into the market for
new homes as borrowing costs hover near a record low, prices
fall and banks become more willing to lend. At the same time,
builders face competition from existing houses as another wave
of foreclosures throws more marked-down properties on the
market.  “Housing demand should improve gradually early in 2012 in
response to an improving labor market and a better lending
environment,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “A considerable
excess of existing homes for sale will persist as distressed
properties enter the market, but that threat to new-home
construction may be lessening.”  The homebuilding report is due from the Commerce Department
at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 600,000 to 655,000.  Builders began work on 586,900 homes last year, the second-
fewest on record. Home construction totaled 554,000 units in
2009, the lowest since data-keeping began in 1959.  Fewer Permits  Permits  may have slipped to a 635,000 annual rate in
November, from 644,000 the prior month, according to the
Bloomberg  survey median .  Construction of single-family homes will probably post a
new low this year at around 419,100, about 11 percent less than
in 2010, according to Bloomberg News calculations. The industry
is being buoyed by a projected 45 percent jump in work on
multifamily units as more homeowners who lose their homes to
foreclosure become renters.  Builders have less incentive to start projects for single-
family homes as more foreclosures loom on the horizon. Sales of
previously owned homes, which now make up about 94 percent of
the market, increased 1.4 percent in October, according to
figures from the National Association of Realtors.  Investors remain concerned about the prospects for
homebuilders. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilder
Index has slumped 11 percent since the end of June through
yesterday, compared with a 8.7 percent drop in the broader  S&P
500 Index .  Obama Initiatives  The Obama administration this month started a new version
of the federal Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP, after
the original program helped less than a quarter of the people
targeted to lock in lower  mortgage rates .  Federal Reserve policy makers reiterated at a meeting this
month that they will keep the benchmark  interest rate  near zero
until at least 2013. The central bank in September decided to
reinvest maturing housing debt into new mortgage-backed
securities instead of Treasuries.  Some policy efforts may be contributing to signs of
improvement in the housing market. A report yesterday showed the
National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo  index  of
builder confidence rose in December for a third straight month,
to 21, the highest level since May 2010. Readings below 50 mean
more respondents said conditions were poor.  “November is a time that historically sales slow down,”
 Larry Sorsby , chief financial officer at  Hovnanian Enterprises
Inc. (HOV) , said in a Dec. 15 call with analysts. “And this year
we’ve not seen as dramatic a slowdown as we have in recent prior
years. The market feels a little bit better than we would have
expected.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  