-- Cameron Forced Into Afghanistan Trip Diversion by Dust Storm
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2011-12-20T14:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/cameron-forced-into-afghanistan-trip-diversion-by-dust-storm.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
was forced to divert a Christmas trip to visit British troops in
Afghanistan by bad weather.  Cameron had planned to go to Camp Bastion, the base in
southern Afghanistan from which most of the U.K.’s 9,500 troops
in the country operate. A dust storm on the ground forced him to
divert instead to Kandahar.  It is the latest mishap that Cameron, prime minister since
May 2010, has had during foreign trips. Previous visits to
Afghanistan have been overshadowed by security and political
concerns, and this year he has had to cut short two official
visits and his family vacation.  “No, I don’t feel particularly jinxed -- I’m very
fortunate,” Cameron told reporters travelling with him. “You
just have to take it as it comes in this job. What I’ve
experienced today is what people working out here experience all
the time: pretty extreme weather, a dust cloud descends, planes
can’t land, helicopters can’t take off, plans have to change.
There’s no point whinging about it.”  Instead, Cameron met Royal Air Force personnel based at
Kandahar and U.S. General James Huggins, regional commander of
south Afghanistan.  Asked about the path troop withdrawals will follow to reach
his target of removing all combat forces by the end of 2014, the
prime minister said international leaders will discuss the
matter at a NATO summit in  Chicago  in May.  ‘Cliff Edge’  “It is an ongoing conversation between allies about how
exactly transition is progressing and what is the right way to
reduce troop numbers,” Cameron said. “I don’t want to see some
massive cliff edge in 2014. I don’t think that is practical. But
I don’t think we need to make hard and fast decisions right now
about precise numbers -- how many will be here in 2013 or
2014.”  Cameron’s first trip to Afghanistan as prime minister in
June 2010 saw him forced to drop parts of his itinerary after
the British military said Taliban forces, alerted to his
presence by a live press conference in Kabul, might be planning
to shoot down his helicopter.  His last visit, in July, was overshadowed by the news that
News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid had hacked the phone of
the murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler .  Africa  Trip  The hacking crisis, and the ensuing arrest of his former
press chief,  Andy Coulson , also led Cameron to cut short a trip
to Africa later that month, shrinking it from five days to two
days in order to return to London to address Parliament.  Paul Stephenson, the commissioner of the Metropolitan
Police, resigned over the hacking scandal as Cameron was flying
to  South Africa  in a plane full of journalists and business
leaders. The premier spent the flight in urgent telephone
conversations with ministers in London.  A month later, Cameron returned early from his family
holiday in  Italy  after riots broke out across the U.K. Then in
October, the premier canceled visits to  Japan  and  New Zealand  in
order to attend an emergency European Union summit in Brussels
on the euro-region debt crisis. He went ahead with part of the
trip, visiting Perth in  Australia , about 18 hours flying time
from  London , for a single night.  Some of Cameron’s overseas troubles have been self-
inflicted. During a July 2010 trip, he compared the Gaza Strip
with a prison camp while visiting Turkey, upsetting Israel,
before saying Pakistan should not be allowed to “look both
ways” on terrorism while in  India , angering the government in
Islamabad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Kandahar, Afghanistan, at
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  