-- Canadian Dollar Rises Most This Month as Rally in Oil Eases Risk Aversion
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2011-12-20T22:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/canadian-dollar-rises-first-time-in-3-days-as-investor-risk-aversion-drops.html
The Canadian dollar increased the
most in December against its U.S. counterpart as a rally in
crude oil and stocks eased  risk aversion .  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is also known,
remained higher after a government report showed the nation’s
annual inflation rate was unchanged in November.  Canada ’s
currency was supported by a U.S. report on housing starts that
indicated the economy of the nation’s biggest trading partner is
getting stronger.  “Oil and positive news from the equity world are providing
a bit of a lift today,” said C.J. Gavsie, managing director for
currency trading at Bank of Montreal, in a phone interview from
Toronto. “Based on the latest Canadian numbers, we are seeing a
stable economic picture here. The Canadian dollar is benefiting
from that.”  The loonie appreciated 0.9 percent to C$1.0298 per  U.S.
dollar  by 5 p.m. Toronto time. It rose as much as 1.2 percent,
the most on an intraday basis since Nov. 30. One Canadian dollar
buys 97.11 U.S. cents.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rallied 3.8
percent to $97.59 a barrel in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index increased 3 percent, while Canada’s S&P/TSX Composite
Index added 1.5 percent.  Ten-year Government of Canada bonds fell for the first time
in seven days, pushing  yields  up 9 basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 1.95 percent. The price of the 3.25 percent
securities due in June 2021 dropped 82 cents to C$111.39.  Canadian Inflation  The  consumer price index  rose 2.9 percent in November from
a year earlier,  Statistics Canada  reported today, matching the
median forecast of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. On
a monthly basis, consumer prices rose 0.1 percent, also in line
with economists’ expectations and down from a 0.2 percent pace
in October.  The annual core inflation rate, which excludes eight
volatile items such as gasoline, was also unchanged in November,
matching October’s 2.1 percent pace,  Statistics Canada  said.  U.S. housing starts increased 9.3 percent to a 685,000
annual rate, the most since April 2010, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington .  Yields on the six-month Canadian overnight index swap, a
security based on what investors expect the central bank’s rate
will average during that period, rose to 0.909 percent today,
from 0.891 percent yesterday, indicating traders are reducing
expectations for  interest-rate  cuts.  A drop in June 2012 bankers’ acceptances, a barometer of
short-term interest-rate expectations, pushed yields up five
basis points to 1.07 percent, the highest level this month.  No ‘Rush’  “I don’t think the Bank of Canada is in a rush to raise
rates at this point,”  Krishen Rangasamy , senior economist at
National Bank in Montreal, said in a telephone interview.  Bank of Canada  policy makers have kept the key interest
rate at 1 percent since September 2010. Lower interest rates
make a country’s currency less attractive to foreign investors.  Although  Europe ’s widening debt crisis is raising risks to
the global economy, there is “considerable monetary stimulus”
in Canada with interest rates near historic lows and the
financial system “functioning well,” policy makers led by Bank
of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said in a Dec. 6 statement.  The loonie has depreciated 2.9 percent in 2011, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The drop is
the biggest among 10 developed-nation currencies on concern
European sovereign-debt turmoil will discourage demand for
Canada’s raw materials. The greenback has appreciated 1 percent,
and the yen has added 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  