-- Canada Faces Two-Decade High Inflation This Year With Carney on Sidelines
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2011-12-20T17:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/canada-november-inflation-matches-2-9-forecast-as-gasoline-increases-fade.html
The cost of living for Canadians is
set to grow at the fastest pace since 1991 this year as concerns
about the global recovery keep Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  from raising borrowing costs.  The annual rate of consumer price  inflation  has averaged 3
percent over the first 11 months of this year, according to data
released today by Statistics Canada. Without a dramatic drop in
December, average full-year inflation will surpass the two-
decade high of 2.8 percent recorded in 2003 to become the
fastest since Canada adopted inflation targets two decades ago.  “I would say without a shadow of a doubt under more normal
times we would have had the Bank of Canada tightening in the
second half of this year,”  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist
at Bank of Montreal’s capital markets unit in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. Porter cited the two-decade high record in
a research note today.  The Ottawa-based central bank has kept its key policy
 interest rate  unchanged at 1 percent for 15 months, citing
 Europe ’s deepening debt crisis and a weak U.S. recovery, even as
energy costs have kept consumer price increases above its 2
percent target. Carney, who has said he has “flexibility” in
how soon inflation returns to target, predicts the pace of price
gains will slow to 1 percent by the middle of next year.  “The outlook for the Canadian economy has weakened since
July,” the  Bank said  in its October monetary policy report,
citing “the significantly less favorable external environment”
and projecting economic momentum “to remain modest through the
middle of next year.”  Inflation Expectations  Investors have increased bets the bank’s forecast will be
accurate. Canada’s 30-year  break even rate , a gauge of inflation
expectations, has declined to 2.01 percent from 2.26 percent at
the end of October.  Higher prices may have added to the economy’s woes by
slowing  consumer spending , Porter said. Hourly wage growth has
averaged 2 percent this year, according to  Statistics Canada 
data, one percentage point less than price increases, meaning
real wages have fallen. Personal expenditures grew by 1.9
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, the slowest
pace since 2009.  Much of the pick-up in Canada’s inflation rate has
reflected higher global  oil prices , food costs and increases in
provincial sales taxes, items which are excluded from the bank’s
so-called  core rate  of inflation. While the increase in the core
rate has averaged 1.7 percent this year, the same pace as last
year, it has been above 2 percent for the past three months.  The two-decade record “does come with a bit of an asterisk
because sales taxes played a big role,” Porter said.  Sales Tax  Increases  The Bank of Canada estimated last year that sales tax
increases in Ontario, British Columbia and  Nova Scotia  boosted
inflation by 0.7 percentage points from July 2010 to June 2011.  The average annual increase for gasoline this year has been
20.1 percent, more than double the pace over 2010, according to
Statistics Canada data. Food price increases have averaged 3.7
percent this year, compared with 1.4 percent in 2010.  While the weak global outlook has economists forecasting
that Carney won’t raise borrowing costs in 2012, potential
inflationary pressures will probably keep him from lowering the
benchmark rate, even if the global outlook worsens and other
central banks choose to ease policy, said Matthieu Arseneau, an
economist at National Bank Financial Inc. in  Montreal .  “They will stay on the sidelines for the foreseeable
future,” Arseneau said in a telephone interview.  U.S. Inflation  Canadians aren’t alone in coping with cost increases this
year. Inflation in the U.S. has averaged 3.2 percent this year,
double the 1.6 percent average increase in 2010, and down from
3.8 percent in 2008.  Statistics Canada today said the country’s annual  inflation
rate  was unchanged at 2.9 percent in November, as rising food
and automobile prices offset a drop in gasoline prices. On a
monthly basis, consumer price increases eased in November,
growing at a 0.1 percent pace compared with a 0.2 percent pace
in October.  The central bank “can seek a little more comfort in this
inflation report,” said  Derek Holt ,  Scotia Capital ’s vice
president of economics in Toronto, adding the central bank’s
outlook for a sharp decline in inflation seems “aggressive”.  “We’re going to need a series of reports like this”
before the  Bank of Canada ’s outlook “comes to fruition,” Holt
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 