-- Central European Media Defies Czech Stock Rally on CEO Sale
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2011-12-20T16:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/central-european-media-falls-to-lowest-since-2009-on-ceo-selling.html
Central European Media Enterprises
Ltd. (CETV)  tumbled to its lowest in 33 months, the only decliner in
the Czech equity index today, after saying Chief Executive
Officer Adrian Sarbu sold a stake in the company.  The stock fell 4.1 percent to 125.7 koruna at the close in
Prague, after earlier tumbling as much as 7.7 percent to the
lowest since March 2009. In U.S. trading, CME gained 5 percent
today to $6.56 by 11:15 a.m. in  New York  after plunging 7.3
percent yesterday.  Sarbu sold 40,567 shares on Dec. 16 at $6.89 apiece, the
broadcaster part-owned by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  said in a regulatory
filing yesterday after the Czech market closed. Earlier this
year, the CEO sold 13,333 shares, according to the filing.  “Sarbu has been gradually reducing his stake since last
summer and sales might be therefore expected by the market,”
analysts led by Milan Vanicek at J&T Banka AS in  Prague  wrote in
a report to clients today. “A repeated reduction of the stake
may be perceived negatively by investors.”  The  PX (PX)  gauge of 14 companies jumped 1.8 percent, the most
this month, after reports on U.S. housing starts and German
business confidence beat expectations, boosting investor demand
for riskier assets worldwide. Germany has the largest economy in
Europe and is the main market for Czech exports.  CEZ AS (CEZ) , the biggest Czech power utility, led the benchmark
higher with a 4.3 percent gain to 785.1 koruna, its highest
close in almost four months. Power for next year delivery in
Germany, where CEZ exports part of its output, rose 1.7 percent
to 52.35 euros per megawatt-hour, rebounding from a 10-month
low. Austria’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  added 4 percent.  “The unexpected increase in Germany’s business-confidence
index triggered an avalanche of purchases in stock markets,”
with CEZ “helped by a strong growth in the price of electricity
contracts,” Miroslav Adamkovic, an analyst at Komercni Banka AS
in Prague, wrote in an e-mail to clients. “CME shares have gone
against the prevailing trend as investors react negatively to
further equity sales by the company’s chief.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  