-- CFTC Approves 30-Minute Delay in Swap-Trade Price Reporting
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-12-20T20:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/cftc-approves-30-minute-delay-in-swap-trade-price-reporting-1-.html
Prices for swaps traded on so-called
swap execution facilities or exchanges will be delayed for at
least 30 minutes under a rule approved by the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  The commission voted 5-0 to approve a final rule for how
prices for trades will be made public, which depends on the type
of transaction and who is doing the trading. The regulation for
“real-time” price disclosures will put swaps subject to a
clearing requirement at an initial 30-minute delay, which would
narrow to 15 minutes after the first year. The rule also
provides for an initial 48-hour delay for end users of
derivatives to report prices.  The rule phases in the delays, starting no sooner than July
16.  “This will for the first time give the broad public a
window,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said before voting at the
meeting today in  Washington . “The more transparent a
marketplace, the more liquid it is, the more competitive it
is.”  The commission also approved, by a vote of 5-0, a rule
requiring swap data repositories to keep digital information
about swaps immediately accessible during the life of the swap
and for five years after its termination.  Earlier Proposal  The Dodd-Frank Act required the CFTC and the Securities and
Exchange Commission to increase transparency in the $708
trillion global over-the-counter  derivatives market , where
largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.
The commission voted 3-2 on Nov. 19, 2010, to propose a 15-
minute delay for reporting large trades of standardized swaps.  That proposed rule was meant to set up delays for the
largest transactions, known as block trades. Because the CFTC
decided to postpone defining what an “appropriate minimum block
size” is, the new delays affect all publicly reportable swaps
transactions.  CFTC Commissioner Bart Chilton said the postponement of the
block-trade definition was spurred by industry comments. “In no
uncertain terms, we were told we got it wrong, quite frankly,”
he said.  Gensler said the CFTC will re-propose a rule to establish
the definition, which he said would be “different for different
asset classes.” A future definition could eventually eliminate
delays for smaller trades, requiring they be reported “as soon
as technologically practicable,” Gensler said.  Hedging Protection  Industry groups representing banks including  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  argued that
the original proposal for a 15-minute limit -- meant as a window
to give traders a chance to hedge big trades prior to them going
public -- wasn’t enough time to protect them from competitors
taking advantage of their need to hedge. Banks use hedging,
which involves offsetting trades with opposite transactions, to
shield themselves from losses.  CFTC Commissioner Scott D. O’Malia said the final rule is
“far more accommodating” than the initial proposal.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is responsible for
writing parallel rules for security-based swaps.  “We’ve shared everything that we have with them,” Jeffrey
Steiner, special counsel in the CFTC’s Division of Market
Oversight, said today. “At least at the staff level, they
didn’t think there would be anything that would be
inconsistent.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
said it intends to register as a swap-execution facility.  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial contracts tied
to  interest rates , currencies or events, such as a change in
weather or a company default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 