-- CFTC Takes Up Reporting Rules on Swaps Trades
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/cftc-considers-dodd-frank-rules-for-reporting-swaps-block-trades.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is considering setting the reporting delay for
traders to reveal prices for block trades of standardized swaps
available on exchanges or so-called swap execution facilities.  CFTC commissioners are scheduled to meet in  Washington 
today to vote on final rules for “real-time” reporting of such
trades, one of a number of provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act
designed to make the $708 trillion global over-the-counter
 derivatives market  more transparent.  Dodd-Frank required the CFTC and the Securities and
Exchange Commission to establish regulations to reduce risk in
the derivatives markets, where largely unregulated trades helped
fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The commission voted 3-2 on Nov.
19, 2010 to propose a 15-minute delay for reporting the block
trades of standardized swaps, meant as a window to give traders
a chance to hedge the big trades prior to them going public.  Banks, through industry groups, argued that the proposal
for a 15-minute limit wasn’t enough time to protect them from
competitors taking advantage of their need to hedge. Banks use
hedging, which involves offsetting trades with opposite
transactions, to shield themselves from losses.  “Dealers may hold on to positions for days or weeks before
hedging,” the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  said in a Sept.
27  report  that cited anecdotal evidence of industry practices
that could complicate regulators’ attempts to set the reporting
window to a matter of minutes.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
said it intends to register as a swap-execution facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 