-- Charter Rises After Naming Ex-Cablevision Executive Tom Rutledge as CEO
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2011-12-20T21:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/charter-communications-names-ex-cablevision-operating-chief-rutledge-ceo.html
Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR)  gained
more than 5 percent in New York trading after naming Thomas Rutledge chief executive officer to help lead the company back
to profitability.  Rutledge, 58, will take the helm at the fourth-largest U.S.
cable provider Feb. 13, succeeding Michael Lovett, who said in
October he would step down. He will also become a member of the
St. Louis-based company’s board, according to a statement.
Rutledge announced his resignation as chief operating officer of
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the fifth-largest U.S. cable
operator, on Dec. 16.  Charter has reported net losses in all except one of its
quarters since emerging from bankruptcy in November 2009.
Rutledge helped Cablevision add video, telephone and broadband
customers in the greater  New York  area and became “the hands-
down best executive in the cable business,” analyst  Craig Moffett  at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York said on Dec.
16.  “Maybe he wanted a bigger challenge,” said Tom Eagan, an
analyst at Collins Stewart LLC in New York, in a telephone
interview yesterday. “Cablevision’s loss is a gain for
Charter.”  Charter rose 5.1 percent to $55.42 at the close, its
biggest one-day gain since Nov. 3. The shares have risen 42
percent this year.  Rutledge will be paid a base salary of $2 million, with
annual increases determined by Charter’s compensation committee.
He will also receive equity awards for 1.26 million shares,
according to company filings. His contract spans four years, the
filings show.  ‘Outstanding Company’  “Charter is an outstanding company with great people,”
said Rutledge in the statement. “I am honored to have been
chosen for this role.”  Rutledge was inducted into the Broadcasting & Cable Hall of
Fame this year after 34 years in the cable industry. He was Time
Warner Cable Inc.’s president before Cablevision Chief Executive
Officer  James Dolan  hired him as president of cable and
communications.  Rutledge built his reputation on increasing Cablevision’s
customer base and returning capital to shareholders with asset
spinoffs, dividends and share buybacks. His operational
challenges may be more difficult with Charter, said Eagan, as
the company’s cable assets are more spread out across the U.S.  Charter has 4.9 million residential customers in 25 states
including California, Missouri and  Connecticut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  