-- Chavez May Devalue Bolivar to Boost Spending Before Vote, Barclays Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2011-12-20T19:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/chavez-may-devalue-bolivar-to-boost-spending-before-vote-barclays-says.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  may
devalue the bolivar in coming months to boost spending ahead of
the October election in which he’ll seek a third term,  Barclays
Capital  said.  Chavez, who has weakened the bolivar’s official peg to the
 U.S. dollar  by 50 percent since January 2010, may opt to devalue
the currency for a third time in two years to free up $20.7
billion in money that could be used to bolster spending during
the campaign, analysts Alejandro Arreaza and  Alejandro Grisanti 
wrote in an e-mailed report today.  “The key issue that Chavez will have to consider is
whether the government has enough resources to finance the
fiscal expansion strategy that it has adopted to propel economic
growth and gain political support ahead of the elections,” the
analysts said. “If the government decides to devalue, it would
need to make a devaluation significant enough to make the
increase in revenues sufficient to compensate for the cost of
the announcement.”  Chavez, 57, will seek to extend his 12 year-rule until 2019
in an Oct. 7 presidential election while trying to deflect
doubts over his health after having a cancerous tumor removed in
June and undergoing four chemotherapy sessions. The former
paratrooper has pegged the bolivar to the dollar since 2003 when
he imposed currency controls to slow capital flight. The
currency has declined 63 percent since then.  Barclays said that the government may decide to weaken the
official rate to 6 bolivars per dollar from the current 4.3 rate
and to devalue the central bank currency market rate to 7
bolivars per dollar from 5.3.  A phone message seeking comment from the  Finance Ministry 
wasn’t immediately returned.  Barclays said that Chavez may decide not to devalue the
bolivar on concern it would be unpopular with voters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  