-- Chelsea Plans Bid for Everton’s Rodwell, Mirror Says: Roundup
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2011-12-20T10:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/chelsea-plans-bid-for-everton-s-rodwell-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Chelsea Wants Rodwell  Chelsea plans a bid for Everton’s England midfielder  Jack
Rodwell  in next month’s transfer window, the  Daily Mirror
reported .  Everton manager David Moyes will not consider selling the
20-year-old for less than 20 million pounds ($31 million), the
newspaper said.  Manchester United  is also monitoring the player, the Mirror
added.  United Midfield  United is interested in Newcastle midfielder Cheick Tiote,
but may wait until the end of the season to make a bid,
 according to the Mirror .  The Premier League champion’s midfield has been decimated
by injuries to Anderson and Tom Cleverley, while Darren Fletcher
is on a leave of absence because of illness.  Ajax’s 19-year-old Denmark midfielder Christian Eriksen is
also a target for United,  the Daily Mail said . The newspaper
cited United assistant coach Rene Meulensteen as saying the
player “is on our radar.”  Chelsea Exits?  Chelsea’s Florent Malouda and  Salomon Kalou  are targets for
Russian clubs Anzhi Makhachkala and Lokomotiv Moscow
respectively,  the Mirror reported.   Anzhi is prepared to pay Malouda 150,000 pounds a week,
while Lokomotiv would double Kalou’s salary to 120,000 pounds a
week, the newspaper said.  Pranjic in Demand  Bayern Munich’s Danijel Pranjic is wanted by Premier League
clubs Newcastle, Sunderland, Everton and Wolverhampton
Wanderers,  according to the Sun .  The 30-year-old Croatian has struggled to earn a first-team
spot at Bayern this season and may be available in January for a
loan or permanent transfer, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 