-- Chilean Peso Advances as Spanish Debt Auction Spurs Risk Demand
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2011-12-20T18:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/chilean-peso-advances-as-spanish-debt-auction-spurs-risk-demand.html
Chile ’s peso strengthened as a
Spanish bond sale and an unexpected increase in German
confidence bolstered demand for riskier emerging-market assets.  The peso gained 0.3 percent to 519.2 per  U.S. dollar  at
12:41 p.m. New York time, from 520.75 yesterday.  Spain sold 5.64 billion euros ($7.38 billion) of Treasury
bills, more than its maximum target, and its borrowing costs
dropped as the  European Central Bank  prepared to start offering
banks unlimited three-year loans later today. Business
confidence in  Germany  rose for a second month in December as two
economic institutes predicted  Europe ’s biggest economy will
stave off the debt crisis and avoid a recession in 2012.  “The debt auction in  Spain  was better than expected and
that’s pushing up markets,” said Sergio Tricio, head of
research at ForexChile. “Copper and the  S&P 500  have remained
relatively stable recently,” he said, forecasting the peso to
trade between 516 and 521 in the coming days.  The price of copper, Chile’s main export, rose 2 percent
and the euro gained 0.7 percent against the dollar.  Swap rates fell after the central bank published its
quarterly monetary-policy report in which it lowered its growth
forecast for next year. The one-year interest-rate swap in pesos
fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.33 percent.  Bond yields rose as the interbank deposit rate climbed to
the highest since January 2010. The  90-day interbank rate  in
unidades de fomento, the country’s inflation-linked currency
unit, climbed to 5.85 percent on Dec. 16, the highest since
January 2010. It fell to 5.84 percent today. Bank borrowing
costs in unidades de fomento have spiked at the end of the year
every year since 2001.  ‘Deposits Are Rising’  The  nominal 90-day interbank  rate reached 6.94 percent
today, the highest since the National Bank Association changed
to an annual rate in May 2010. The rate has climbed from 6.07
percent at the end of September.  “Deposits are rising and that’s feeding through into
bonds,” said Andres de la Cerda, a money-markets trader at Bice
Inversiones in Santiago. The lack of liquidity for banks may
ease in the new year because of coupon payments on Jan. 1, he
said.  Deteriorating global financial conditions have contributed
to “friction” in the local financial market, the central bank
said today.  Government Bond  The yield on a 10-year inflation-linked government bond
climbed six basis points to 2.56 percent from an eight-week low
of 2.5 percent reached yesterday. The yield on a similar bond
from the central bank increased seven basis points to 2.57
percent.  Offshore investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
increased their short position in the peso to $5.7 billion on
Dec. 16 from $5.5 billion a day earlier, according to data
published today by the central bank.  Food company Agrosuper SA sold 21-year inflation-linked
bonds at a yield of 4.78 percent, 192 basis points more than the
yield on 20-year inflation-linked central bank bonds. That’s the
highest spread paid by a Chilean company on a benchmark bond
sale since at least January 2010, according to data compiled by
Larrain Vial SA.  The company, rated A by Fitch Ratings and AA- by Feller
Rate, is under investigation by the country’s economic
prosecutor for alleged participation in a chicken-meat cartel.
It conspired with two other companies, Empresas Ariztia SA and
Agricola Don Pollo Ltda, to limit production of chicken in a bid
to maintain prices, according to documents presented to the
Chilean competition tribunal by the prosecutor.  The company said in a statement published on the website of
the Santiago stock exchange dated Dec. 7 that it “categorically
denies the existence of anti-competitive agreements” and that
it is consulting with its lawyers on a response to the
accusation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net  or
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at r
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  