-- Chile’s Central Bank Cuts CPI Forecast on Global Slowdown
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2011-12-20T18:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/chile-central-bank-cuts-inflation-forecast-on-world-slowdown-1-.html
Chile ’s central bank cut its
inflation estimate for 2012 on forecasts that  economic growth 
will slow and the price of copper, the country’s leading export,
will decline.  Consumer prices will rise 2.7 percent next year, while
gross domestic product expands 3.75 percent to 4.75 percent, the
central bank said today in its  quarterly monetary  policy report.
Three months earlier, the bank forecast growth of 4.25 percent
to 5.25 percent and inflation of 2.9 percent.  The world’s leading copper producer will grow 6.2 percent
this year after climbing 5.2 percent in 2010, the bank said.
Chile hasn’t felt the full impact of the global slowdown, even
as the price of  stocks (IPSA)  and  commodities  fall, according to a
statement accompanying the report. Interest rates will probably
fall next year as growth slows, the bank indicated.  “Activity has evolved somewhat below projections, internal
demand still is dynamic -- driven by gains in labor earnings --
and inflation remains within the acceptable range,” according
to the statement. “At the same time, the local financial market
has observed increased friction of late because of the
tightening of global financial conditions.”  Three-month interest-rate swaps, which reflect traders’
view of average borrowing costs, fell six basis points to 4.91
percent at 1:17 p.m. Santiago time.  ‘Set the Stage’  “The central bank has now set the stage to begin the
monetary easing cycle,”  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in  New York , said in a note e-mailed to
investors today. “We expect the central bank to initiate the
rate easing cycle in January.”  Policy makers, who have left borrowing costs on hold since
July, will reduce borrowing costs by 1 percentage point to 4.25
percent next year as the economic slowdown intensifies,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Dec. 9
central bank survey.  “We have the tools that we need to face adverse
situations,” central bank President Rodrigo Vergara told the
Senate today, according to prepared remarks. “Most importantly,
we have the sound determination to act in order to mitigate the
impact of the external scenario on the Chilean economy.”  Under the bank’s “base scenario” of a limited impact at
home from the global turmoil, its key  interest rate  will move
broadly in line with estimates in market surveys, he said.  ‘Great Challenge’  According to the report, inflation will ease in the first
half of 2012 to the central bank target of 3 percent. Consumer
prices rose a year-on-year 3.9 percent in November, close to the
upper limit of the bank’s target range of 2 percent to 4
percent.  The price of copper will average $4.01 per pound this year
and $3.50 in 2012 as global demand declines, according to the
bank’s forecasts.  Also as a result of global turmoil caused by the European
crisis, Chilean banks accessing credit abroad are starting to
see changes in spreads, the central bank said in its financial
stability report published today.  “Our great challenge right now is to face as best we can
the effects of the external crisis on our country,” Vergara
said. “To do so, we will have to use our experience as well as
the instruments available -- in the right dose and at the right
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at +56-2-487-4017 or
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at +55-21-2125-2535 or
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 