-- Baidu Removed From U.S. ‘Notorious Markets’ Piracy List After Music Pact
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2011-12-20T23:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/china-s-baidu-dropped-from-u-s-notorious-markets-piracy-list.html
Baidu Inc. ’s settlement with record
companies this year was rewarded by the U.S. government’s
decision to remove it from a list of “notorious markets” that
help sustain piracy and counterfeiting of intellectual property.  Baidu, China’s biggest Internet search engine, agreed in
July with  Universal Music Group ,  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG)  and
 Sony Corp. (6758)  to pay owners of copyrighted material on a social-
music platform, a deal cited by the U.S. Trade Representative
yesterday in its report. The Ladies Market in  Hong Kong , where
customs officials acted to remove infringing goods, and the
Savelovskiy Market in Moscow, where managers have stepped in to
stop such sales, were also dropped from the list.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s Taobao, China’s biggest online
retailer, remained among more than 30 online and physical
markets worldwide identified in the report for helping the
illegal sale of material protected by copyright or patents.
Others include the Pirate Bay file-sharing website in Sweden and
the Silk Street Market in Beijing, according to the report.  “The notorious markets highlighted in this review
negatively impact legitimate businesses and industries of all
sizes that rely on intellectual property to protect their goods
and services,” U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said
yesterday in a statement. “We hope that this review will
continue to yield the kind of concrete action from highlighted
markets that led to the removal of several markets from the list
this year.”  The trade office said in the report that the markets were
identified according to information submitted in response to a
September request for comments.  ‘Rogue Websites’  The U.S. urged regulators overseeing the listed markets to
step up efforts to combat violations.  The list “demonstrates the need for Congress to take
action against rogue websites that are causing so much damage to
American workers and businesses,”  Michael O’Leary , senior
executive vice president for global policy and external affairs
at the  Motion Picture Association  of America, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Bills under consideration in the  U.S. Congress  would target
non-U.S. websites that distribute pirated digital content and
counterfeit goods. The measures would let the Justice Department
seek court orders forcing U.S.-based Internet-service providers,
 search engines , payment services and advertising networks to
block or stop business with such sites.  The legislation is backed by the U.S. movie and music
industries, which want stronger protection against piracy, and
opposed by Internet executives, including Google Inc. co-founder
 Sergey Brin , who say the bills would threaten the technology
industry and lead to online censorship.  ‘Unauthorized Content’  Pirate Bay, the largest file-sharing site using BitTorrent
software, “continues to facilitate the download of unauthorized
content,” according to the report.  The site, based in  Sweden , has said users contribute
content to share with others and that there is no copyrighted
material on the network.  Pirate Bay’s four founders were sentenced to one year in
prison each in April 2009 by a Swedish court. Three of the men
had their jail sentences reduced on appeal in November 2010.  While Taobao has made “significant efforts” to address
pirated and counterfeit goods, “much remains to be done,”
according to the report.  Phone calls placed to the Chinese embassy in Washington
seeking comment on the report weren’t answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  