-- China Money Rate Snaps Two-Day Drop as Maturing Debt Declines
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2011-12-20T08:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/china-money-rate-snaps-two-day-drop-as-maturing-debt-declines.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose, snapping a two-day decline, on speculation cash supply
will tighten due to a drop in the amount of central bank bills
and repurchase agreements that are maturing.  Debt redemptions will total 17 billion yuan ($2.7 billion)
this week, compared with about 100 billion yuan per week on
average in the past months, according to  Frances Cheung , a
senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . The
People’s Bank of China will probably  withdraw  liquidity after
three weeks of net injections, she said.  “Liquidity via open-market operations is a bit tight this
week,” Cheung said. Demand for cash is rising as the year-end
approaches, she said.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, rose 21 basis points, or
0.21 percentage point, to 3.24 percent in  Shanghai , according to
a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, added two basis points to 2.73
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate has
dropped 1.02 percentage points this quarter, the biggest three-
month decline since 2008.  “The valuation of front-end interest rate swaps is at
stretched levels,” Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income strategist
at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong, wrote in a report today.
“Heavily skewed positioning could lead to a sharp upside
correction in interest swaps if the PBOC were to disappoint.”  Reserve-Ratio Cuts  Societe Generale  expects the central bank to ease further
by cutting banks’ reserve-requirement ratios before the end of
January. There will be a total of four 50-basis point cuts in
2012, Chong forecast.  The monetary authority will lower reserve ratios for banks
again in the near-term after announcing in November it would cut
them for the first time in three years, according to a
commentary in the China Securities Journal today.  The People’s Bank of China kept the yield on one-year bills
unchanged at 3.4875 percent for a fifth week today, according to
a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.
The central bank issued 26 billion yuan of the securities.  The PBOC published a list of 50 primary dealers allowed to
participate in open-market operations in February, including
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd., Bank of China Ltd., China Construction Bank Corp.,
China Citic Bank Corp., Industrial Bank Co. and Postal Savings
Bank of China.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  