-- China Aims to Cement Kim Jong Un Succession as More North Korea Aid Seen
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-20T15:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/china-aims-to-cement-kim-jong-un-succession-as-more-north-korea-aid-seen.html
China may move to bolster a dynastic
succession in neighbor  North Korea , propelled by the need to
preserve the stability that’s seen it become the world’s second-
biggest  economy .  President  Hu Jintao  will probably offer more economic aid
to North Korea to strengthen the hand of Kim Jong Un, who must
now consolidate power after his father  Kim Jong Il ’s death on
Dec. 17, said Paul Haenle. He served as the White House National
Security Council’s China director in the Bush and Obama
administrations.  The cost for the U.S. and  South Korea  may be less Chinese
attention to restarting six-party talks over North Korea’s
nuclear-weapons program. Topping the list of possible Chinese
objectives is avoiding unrest that could  disrupt regional  trade
and prompt a wave of refugees to cross the 880-mile (1,416-
kilometer) border it shares with North Korea.  “ China  sees it on two tracks,” said Haenle, director of
the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing, in a
phone interview. “You’ve got a denuclearization track and
another track which is all about maintaining stability and
ensuring the consolidation of power. The denuclearization track
will be put on hold.”  A North Korean collapse could jeopardize China’s trade with
Japan and South Korea. They are its third- and fourth-biggest
trading partners after the European Union and the U.S., with
combined two-way trade amounting to $536.8 billion in the first
11 months of the year, or about 10 percent of  China’s GDP ,
according to Chinese customs statistics.  Transfer of Power  The transfer of power in North Korea comes less than a year
before Hu and Premier  Wen Jiabao  are themselves scheduled to
begin handing over authority to a new generation of Chinese
leaders, underscoring the need to avert a collapse next door.  Hu visited North Korea’s embassy in Beijing yesterday to
express condolences over Kim Jong Il’s death. China would also
welcome a visit by North Korean leaders when convenient, Foreign
Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said at a briefing yesterday.  “We believe that the North Korean people will unite
closely around the Workers’ Party of Korea under the leadership
of Kim Jong Un, and will build a strong socialist nation and
continue to progress toward long-term peace on the Korean
peninsula,” Liu told reporters in Beijing.  “Secure Backer”  Editorials in state-run Chinese newspapers yesterday
stressed the need for a stable leadership transition, with the
Global Times saying China should be “a powerful and secure
backer for a smooth transition of power.” The newspaper
suggested that high-level Chinese leaders visit North Korea to
maintain “close communication” with its new leadership.  “Pyongyang’s commitment to peace and stability in the
Korean Peninsula is in its own interests and best serves its
regional responsibilities,” a China Daily editorial said.  China is expressing its support for Kim Jong Un to make
sure it maintains its influence over the regime in Pyongyang,
which is increasingly dependent on China for political and
economic support, said Willy Wo-Lap Lam, a professor at the
Chinese University of  Hong Kong , in an e-mail.  China will move to “boost links with the North Korean
generals in the new Kim Jong Un dynasty,” Lam said. “Beijing
will likely promise Pyongyang more generous economic, fuel and
technological support in order to shore up the alliance -- and
to ensure the pro-China tilt of the post-Kim Jong Il
administration.”  Food Imports  China accounted for 79 percent of North Korea’s 2009
 international trade , according to the Seoul-based Korea Trade-
Investment Promotion Agency. China provides almost 90 percent of
energy imports and 45 percent of the country’s food, according
to a 2009 report from the New York-based Council on Foreign
Relations.  North Korea’s economic and political dependence on China,
its biggest trading partner, grew under Kim Jong Il. In
September, China’s exports of  kerosene , a fuel used for heating
and cooking, rose to 14,151 tons, the most since April 2009.
Two-way trade last year rose to $3.47 billion, a 29 percent gain
from 2009, according to Chinese statistics. It was $630 million
in 2001, according to the Xinhua news agency.  China would now like  Japan ,  South Korea  and the U.S. to
make friendly overtures to North Korea to lower the chance for
conflict, said Zhu Feng, a professor of international relations
at  Peking University .  Positive Gesture  The Chinese government feels “it is high time for the
international community to reach out to the new government,”
Zhu said. Not making a positive gesture “will create the
perception that they would prefer to see the regime collapse
rather than working on a productive approach,” Zhu said.  China’s ties with North Korea, forged over a six-decade
alliance stemming from China’s entry into the  Korean War  on the
north’s side in 1950, translate into real influence when China
chooses to exercise it, Haenle said.  Kim Jong Il made at least three trips to China in the last
two years. Chinese Politburo Standing Committee member Zhou Yongkang stood at a rostrum in Pyongyang on Oct. 10 2010 with
Kim Jong Il and Kim Jong Un to celebrate the 65th anniversary of
the Workers’ Party of  Korea  and review a military parade.  The night before, tens of thousands of performers, some in
panda costumes, feted Zhou at Pyongyang’s May Day Stadium. They
waved placards with slogans such as “without the Communist
Party there would be no new China.”  One display of China’s influence occurred in 2008, when
North Korea threatened to restart processing weapons-grade
plutonium unless the U.S. took it off a terrorist blacklist,
Haenle said. North Korea’s announced restart date fell during
the August 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing.  The U.S. had no success in talks, said Haenle, who was
working in the White House at the time. So officials turned to
the Chinese and told them about North Korea’s plan to restart
processing plutonium during the Olympics.  “Next thing you know, the day comes when they were
supposed to start reprocessing, and they didn’t,” Haenle said.
Speaking of China’s leaders, he said: “We don’t know exactly
how they did it. But they did it.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  