-- Chinese Atheists Lured to Find Jesus at U.S. Christian Schools
-- B y   D a n i e l   G o l d e n
-- 2011-12-20T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/chinese-atheists-lured-to-find-jesus-at-u-s-schools.html
Haiying Wu’s family in Shandong
Province wasn’t religious. After a born-again Texan teaching
English in  China  advised her that Christian schools in the U.S.
are safe and academically strong, she enrolled at Ben Lippen
High School in Columbia, South Carolina.  Ben Lippen  required her to attend church and chapel, take
Bible class, and join a Bible study group. At first, she didn’t
understand “why you need to believe in something you can’t view
or touch,” she said. Gradually, it began to make sense. When
the house parents in her dorm showed the 2004 film, “The
Passion of the Christ,” she wept. Shortly before her 2009
graduation, she was baptized.  Her parents were taken aback. “In China, I don’t think
there’s any chance I would have become a Christian,” said Wu,
21, a junior at  Tulane University  in  New Orleans . “It takes a
lot to convert someone. Because Ben Lippen is such a strong
religious environment, it makes you feel you have to learn about
Christianity, and how come everybody around you believes.”  As evangelical schools capitalize on the desire of affluent
Chinese families for the prestige of an American education, many
Chinese students are learning first-hand how the Bible Belt got
its name.  While proselytizing is banned in China, Protestant -- and,
to a lesser extent, Catholic -- high schools are doing their
missionary work on this side of the  Pacific Ocean . Through
placement agents and religious networking, they’re recruiting
growing numbers of students from China, most of them atheists,
and encouraging them to convert, in the hope that some of them
will spread the faith back home.  Little Preparation  Plunged with little preparation into an intense religious
environment, Chinese students often struggle to fit in. Some
shed their skepticism and become Christians, delighting school
officials and dismaying their families in China.  Eighty of Ben Lippen’s 108 international students come from
China, up from hardly any five years ago, said Emery Nickerson,
director of the boarding program. A “large minority” commit to
Christianity, he said.  “I’m pleased that so many of these kids come to Christ
while they’re here,” said Ben Lippen School Headmaster Mickey
Bowdon. “I’m not sure the Chinese government would be.”  China’s Ministry of Education and State Administration for
Religious Affairs declined to respond to written questions.  “The government is in a real quandary,” said Daniel Bays,
director of the Asia Studies Program at  Calvin College  in  Grand
Rapids ,  Michigan , who researches Christianity in China. “They
can’t forbid people from sending their kids overseas. They may
worry about these kids coming back, but they can’t do much about
it. These kids are just added to the crop of suspects that they
already have to deal with.”  Proselytizing Students  Teachers, classmates and host parents with whom Chinese
students stay are sometimes overly fervent in proselytizing
them, said former Ben Lippen Headmaster David Edgren.  “What we have are wonderful, sensitive, caring, committed
Christian people who want so much for this particular Chinese
student to come to know the Lord Jesus Christ the way they do,”
said Edgren, who now recruits Chinese students for Ben Lippen
and other evangelical schools. “There is sometimes a tendency
for the Christian student/host family/teacher to press for and
receive what appears to be a commitment.”  Non-believing Chinese parents choose Christian schools for
their moral values, college placement records, and lower tuition
than secular private schools, Edgren said. Because the U.S. is
regarded in China as a Christian nation, many parents see
Christian schools as part of mainstream American culture, said
Susannah Clarke, who taught in China for three years and helps
with a Bible study group at Ben Lippen.  Confucius Institutes  Religious schools are the latest entrant in the race by
American educational institutions to tap the lucrative China
market. About 57,000 Chinese undergraduates, most paying full
tuition, attended U.S. colleges in 2010-2011, six times as many
as in 2005-06. A Chinese government affiliate has contributed
millions of dollars to establish  Confucius Institutes  for
Chinese language and culture on 75 American campuses.  Limited to  one year  of attendance at U.S. public secondary
schools under federal law, Chinese students are flocking to
private high schools, where they diversify student bodies and
offset declines in domestic enrollment caused by the economic
downturn.  The number of Chinese students at U.S. private high schools
soared to 6,725 in 2010-11 from 65 in 2005-06, according to the
U.S. Department of  Homeland Security , which doesn’t keep
separate statistics for religious schools.  Beijing Recruiting Fair  Religious schools boost Chinese enrollment by sending staff
members to China and using agents such as  New Oriental Education
& Technology Group Inc. (EDU) , China’s largest education firm by
market capitalization.  Known for preparing Chinese students for the SATs and other
exams, New Oriental also connects them with U.S. high schools.
Eight Protestant U.S. schools, including Ben Lippen, and two
Catholic schools were represented at a New Oriental recruiting
fair in Beijing in October.  One New Oriental business partner uses a religious appeal
to open doors at Christian schools that aren’t used to taking
foreigners.  Eduboston  placed 119 Chinese students this year at
15 New England schools, including one Protestant and 12 Catholic
institutions, said President Kason Park.  When school administrators balk because they don’t have
international advisers or English-as-a-second-language programs,
Park tells them about a pastor in China who was jailed for
handing out Bibles.  “Some people sacrifice so much to spread the gospel,”
said Park, a Presbyterian. “Now we have people at our doorstep,
offering money. I always tell the schools, ‘God has a bigger
plan than we see.’”  ‘Religion Permeates’  New Oriental’s pipeline to religious schools worries
Annalee Nissenholtz, a St. Louis-based counselor for
international students and a consultant to the company.  “Relying on recruiters who do not emphasize their schools’
religious focus, Chinese parents perceive these schools as
’safe’ and ‘family-oriented’ places where their children will
get a typical American experience,” she said in an e-mail.
“They have no idea how religion permeates the day to day
environment. I would no more place a Chinese student in an
evangelical Christian school than in an orthodox Jewish
school.”  ‘Foreign Concept’  The schools’ religious emphasis, including teachers praying
in class, has surprised some Chinese students, said Laura
Chevalier, destinations program coordinator for the  Association
of Christian Schools International  in  Colorado  Springs,
Colorado.  “A Christian school is such a foreign concept coming out
of China,” Chevalier said. “Even if they’ve been prepped a
lot, until they get in that environment, they might not have any
context to understand.”  Ben Lippen’s application asks Chinese students what their
understanding is of the Christian faith, who is  Jesus Christ ,
and what it means to live in a Christian community. They also
must agree to attend religious services, Bible study and Bible
class.  “They know, without a shadow of a doubt, they are coming
to a Christian environment,” Bowdon said. “They must be OK
with that.”  Placement agents sometimes fill out the forms for
applicants, Nickerson said.  “Before students get here, there is always the question,
‘Do the parents understand?’ he said. “They aren’t sending kids
here to learn about who Jesus Christ is. We do our best to
publicize our mission.”  Influx of Non-Christians  Some religious schools have adapted their missions to fit
the influx of non-Christians.  Students from  South Korea , which has a higher percentage of
Christians than China, previously dominated international
enrollment at Ben Lippen and other religious schools.  As the Chinese replaced the Koreans, Ben Lippen’s trustees
wrestled with the question of whether to require boarding
students to be Christians, said Kelly Pengelly, former director
of the boarding program. In October 2010, they decided that a
majority didn’t have to be Christian, she said.  Whitinsville Christian School in  Massachusetts , which
requires applicants to submit recommendations from pastors,
waived the rule earlier this year for Chinese students, said
Roann Karns, international student coordinator.  Administrators at Whitinsville, which has seven Chinese
students, “embraced the idea of being able to expose them to
Christianity,” she said.  Reconciling the Mission  While its mission statement says its purpose is “to serve
as partners with Christian parents,”  Southside Christian School 
in Simpsonville,  South Carolina , recruited six Chinese students
from non-Christian families last year and is increasing Chinese
enrollment to 12 next month, said Stephen Reel, superintendent.  The school reconciles recruiting Chinese students with its
mission by housing them with Christian families, he said.
Several have “made some level of statement of faith,” he said.  Wheaton Academy, an evangelical school in West Chicago,
 Illinois , started an introductory Bible class last year for non-
Christian international students, said Chief Operating Officer
Jon Keith. Of its 37 international students, 22 come from China,
he said.  Wheaton also plans to supply hundreds of international
students a year, of whom between half and two-thirds would come
from China, to 22 Christian schools nationwide, Keith said.
Participating schools will pay Wheaton for membership in the
network plus “a modest per-student placement fee,” Keith said.  St. Mary’s Preparatory , a Catholic boys’ school in Orchard
Lake, Michigan, where 50 of 65 international students come from
China, plans a “scaled-down” introductory catechism class for
non-Catholics next year, said James Glowacki, headmaster.  ‘Blank Slates’  Chinese students pay $41,750 a year for tuition and room
and board, $15,000 more than boarders from the U.S., reflecting
expenses such as advertising, international admissions staff,
and English as a second language, he said.  While some trustees were leery of bringing so many non-
Catholics to St. Mary’s, they couldn’t pass up the chance to
evangelize. One trustee said, according to Glowacki, “We have
blank slates coming that we have an opportunity to write upon.”  Communists Expelled Missionaries  Converting the Chinese isn’t easy in their native country,
even as Christianity is growing there. Between 80 million and
125 million Chinese -- out of a population of  1.33 billion  --
are Christians, including about 12 million Catholics, said  David
Aikman , a former Time Magazine foreign correspondent and author
of the book, “Jesus in Beijing: How Christianity Is
Transforming China And Changing the Global Balance of Power.”  Most Protestants worship at illegal “house” churches,
which are sometimes tolerated by the regime, rather than the
government-controlled Three Self Church, Aikman said.  Communists took control of China in 1949 and expelled
foreign missionaries. Forbidden from evangelizing, American
Christians who teach English or work in social service agencies
in China spread the word discreetly.  “We made a pledge to local officials that we would not do
overt faith-based teaching in our classrooms, and we honored
that,” said Nathan Musgrave, assistant pastor at Heartland
Evangelical Free Church in Central City,  Nebraska , who taught
English from 2004 to 2008 to young adults in China, primarily
farm and factory workers. “There was a lot of informal contact
outside the classroom. Students would visit our homes, and
issues of faith would come up naturally. We would share openly
at that time, but not unless the student broached the subject.”  ‘Prays With Teammates’  When Randy Liang wanted to study in the U.S., his parents’
friends at a Christian group that provides medical and small
business services in Shanxi Province recommended  Ben Lippen . He
enrolled in January, 2010, as a sophomore, largely unfamiliar
with the Scriptures and the English language.  He “really hated” the school at first, he said. “I
thought they were trying to force me to be Christian. I couldn’t
understand what they’re talking about. I thought, ‘This is
boring.’”  Liang adjusted as his English improved and he joined teams
in four sports: football, wrestling, cross-country and track.
After watching a creationist video in Bible class, he developed
doubts about evolution. Now a senior, he prays with teammates
before games, he said. He lives in a teammate’s home, and prays
with the family for success on exams.  Still, Liang plans to postpone any religious commitment and
concentrate on schoolwork until he’s had more experience, he
said. While those around him encourage him to become Christian,
“I control my own brain,” he said.  Bible Study  In a Ben Lippen classroom on a Sunday evening in early
December, the discussion and the Bibles are in Mandarin. With
Christmas approaching, a volunteer from the  Chinese Christian
Church of Columbia  is teaching the nativity story to 20 Chinese
teenage boys fulfilling their Bible Study requirement.  Some students send  text messages , or doze. Asked what
Christmas means, one responds, in a joking allusion to a
similarly-pronounced Chinese-language character, “Egg.”  “They’re bored,” said the leader, Thomas Su, 35. “They
come from an atheist background. They don’t think it’s the
truth. They think, ‘Why do I waste my time?’ They were mocking
me.”  “A lot of them are anti-Christian. They know we’d like
them to become Christian,” said Susannah Clarke, who was
instructing a girls’ group across the hall. “It’s been drummed
into them: there’s no God, the government is great. They know if
they go back as a Christian, their parents will not be happy.”  Cultural Gap  Bridging the linguistic, religious and cultural gap between
Chinese and American students is a challenge at Ben Lippen.
Named for a Scottish phrase meaning “mountain of trust,” it
stands on the hilltop campus of Columbia International
University, overlooking the Broad River.  Ben Lippen has 392 students in grades 9-12. Day students,
who must have at least one parent active in an evangelical
church, make up almost three-fourths of the enrollment. Few of
the 80 Chinese students come from Christian families, Nickerson
said.  Twenty Chinese students stay with local evangelical
families, such as Rick and Jennifer Byers. The school is paying
them $3,200 a month this year to host four Chinese students.  “We don’t do this for the money,” said Jennifer Byers.
“We do this because we want to win these kids to Jesus Christ.
If that’s what eternity is all about, that’s the most important
thing we can do.”  ‘No Touch’ Policy  The Chinese pay about $30,000 a year for tuition and room
and board, plus $930 to $2,270 for English as a second language.
Tuition for day students is about $11,000.  The school has a strict behavioral code. Any student who
“professes to be homosexual/bisexual” or “supports or
otherwise promotes such practices” may be expelled, the school
handbook states. “To avoid temptation, we enforce a ‘no touch’
policy between the sexes at all times,” the handbook states.  For students who voluntarily confess and repent involvement
in “sexual immorality, or use of alcohol or illegal drugs, the
opportunity for reconciliation is available,” with lesser
consequences such as suspension or drug testing, it says.  Chinese students often arrive at Ben Lippen with less
English than their entrance exam scores predicted.  “There’s a lot of dishonesty or padding,” Nickerson said.
Even if they are qualified to be high school juniors in China,
they may spend a year or two as freshmen taking English-as-a-
second-language courses until they become fluent enough to
handle a regular load, Nickerson said. While taking Bible class
in English, they worship at the Chinese church and participate
in evening Bible study in Mandarin.  ‘English Only’  Boarders must speak English in common areas of their
dormitories. “Thank you for speaking English only” reads a
sign in one house, where 11 of 14 residents come from China.
Rule-breakers may lose their computers for a few hours, said
Houseparent Marty Gilpatrick.  Like other Ben Lippen courses, English-as-a-second language
instruction is steeped in Scriptures. Randy Headley, a former
Ben Lippen history teacher, diverged from this approach last
year when he taught ESL to newcomers from China.  While he used one Christian text, Johann Sebastian Bach’s
church cantatas, he “tried to not push religion too hard,” and
emphasized vocabulary such as the names of countries and
vegetables, he said.  The Chinese “need a rest somewhere in the institution,”
Headley said. “I gave them a rest. They appreciated it. Some
Americans didn’t. Perhaps many ESL teachers thought it was their
one chance to save people.”  Intellectual Diversity  Chinese students enhance diversity of evangelical schools
not only ethnically but also intellectually. When Ben Lippen
teacher Tom Pengelly asked his comparative-government class
whether God is sovereign over national leaders, a Chinese
student responded, “No. If the Lord was sovereign, why would He
allow Hitler, Mao, and  George W. Bush .”  Conservative Southerners in the class were scandalized by
the pairing of Bush with two tyrants, Pengelly said. “One
football player said, ‘You can’t say that!’”  Founded in 1940, Ben Lippen in its early decades housed and
educated children of American missionaries. As missionaries
began taking their children abroad, the school sought foreign
students to replace them.  “Originally, we brought children of missionaries here,”
Headmaster Bowdon said. “Now we’re preparing future
missionaries. They’ll go back to their own country, with the
claims of Christ and a transformed heart.”  Recruiting in China  David Edgren, who had taught English at a Chinese
university, became headmaster in 1992. Three years later, he
went to China and brought back 15 students.  “That was a very incredible thing from our school’s
standpoint,” he said. “From that point on, I recruited in
 Korea  and would go back and forth to China.”  One of those students, Henry Guo, drowned in a lake during
a party celebrating the end of the 1995-96 school year. In the
woods, near the Chinese students’ dormitories, a plaque
memorializes him.  Guo converted at school, said Southside Christian’s Reel,
then a Ben Lippen administrator.  “We had the assurance in our hearts that he had given his
life to Christ and would have eternal salvation as a result,”
he said. “That was the silver lining.”  Commission Payments  Ben Lippen’s Chinese population was dwindling by the time
Edgren left in 2000 to become headmaster at  Nebraska Christian
School  in Central City, Nebraska, where he also initiated Asian
recruiting. By 2006, “there were zero Chinese students” at Ben
Lippen, said then-Headmaster Brian Modarelli. Eager to fill
beds, Modarelli turned to Edgren.  The 69-year-old Edgren now represents nine schools, six of
them Christian. For each Chinese student he places, Ben Lippen
pays him 15 percent of the $30,000 first-year tuition and room
and board, 10 percent of the next year’s payment, and 5 percent
for the third and fourth years, Nickerson said. Depending on the
school, his first-year commissions range from zero to 15
percent, and he splits the fees with agencies in China that find
the students, Edgren said.  Multi-year payments motivate agents to encourage Chinese
students to stay at Ben Lippen, Nickerson said.  “At some point, the student is going to be angry with
us,” he said. “If they just run to the agent and leave, the
student hasn’t learned, and we lose financially.”  High School Tour  New Oriental, based in Beijing, supplies some of the
students whom Edgren places, he said. Edgren began working with
New Oriental in 2010, and took two company officials to visit 15
U.S. high schools, most of them Christian.  He and several evangelical school administrators, including
Southside’s Reel, had lunch with New Oriental executives at a
premier Beijing restaurant before a 2010 recruiting fair
sponsored by the company, Edgren said.  New Oriental doesn’t have a religious agenda, and funnels
students to Protestant and Catholic schools because of market
demand and relationships with agents such as Park and Edgren,
they said. New Oriental recently started a separate department
for U.S. secondary schools, Park said.  “New Oriental does not promote religion of any
denomination,” President Louis Hsieh said in an e-mail. “It is
the families’ decision if they want their kids to attend a
Christian or non-Christian high school or college.”  Meeting Yao Ming  At the New Oriental fair this past October, high school
representatives interviewed students and gave presentations.
 Northland Christian School  in Houston provided students with a
package of gifts, including a key chain, notepad and pen.  Kevin Roberts , chairman of Northland’s board, impressed
students by telling them that he had met Yao Ming, the retired
Chinese star of the  National Basketball Association ’s Houston
Rockets, in the team’s locker room and been given one of Yao’s
high-top shoes as a memento.  “Obviously, when you put a slide up there of Yao Ming,
that’s a good recruiting tool,” said Headmaster Daniel Woods.  Guan Yuntian, a 15-year-old from Beijing, was interviewed
by three schools, including Northland.  “Religious school is fine for me,” she said. “The school
will be better disciplined than other schools,” and the tuition
lower. “It’s not bad to have a religion as it may help me to be
stronger.”  Zhang Shaoxuan, the father of another girl at the fair,
would gladly send her to a Christian school, he said.  “Both religious school and private schools are fine, the
public schools are what you don’t want to be in,” he said.
“Because there will be all kinds of odd students there.”  Saving Face  His experience with Chinese culture has taught Edgren that
many Chinese students at Christian schools convert to please
administrators or save face, he said.  Of Ben Lippen’s 80 Chinese students, “if there are more
than three, four, five believers as I would understand a
commitment to Jesus Christ, I’d be surprised,” he said. “From
a practical standpoint, we don’t know until the kid goes back to
China. Many of them will not tell their parents.”  Chang Su was unusually blunt. A Shenzhen native, whose
father is a computer engineer and whose mother teaches
kindergarten, she “didn’t want anything to do with a Christian
school,” she said.  She opted for Ben Lippen after missing the application
deadline for secular private schools. Meeting Edgren, she
informed him that she was not Christian, she said.  She was “so antagonistic,” said Edgren. He thanked her
for her honesty and told her she would have to go to church.  Late for Church  Entering Ben Lippen as a junior in 2008, Su clashed with
dormitory parents over the requirement to turn in her computer
and cell phone at night. When she was late for church one
Sunday, they and the other girls left without her; she took a
taxi. Accusing her of lying and disrespect, school officials
sent her to a Christian counselor, she said.  “It was a really hard time,” she said. “I didn’t feel
loved at all. I cried a lot.”  Her teachers stood by her. “I could feel the love from
them,” she said. “There was no reason for them to love me.
They were willing to forgive me.”  The more she read the Bible, the more truth she discovered
there. After praying for a month, she felt the Holy Spirit one
night in March 2009.  “Before, what I believed, what Chinese people believe, is
that people are innately good,” she said. “I realized that I
was sinful. I was lying, not loving. Those are as bad as killing
someone. There’s no difference between me and a murderer.”  She was baptized in April, 2009. Now a sophomore at
Davidson College in  North Carolina , Su proselytized vacationers
this past summer on Myrtle Beach. She tells her parents and
grandparents about Jesus. “They haven’t converted yet, but
they’re open to it,” she said.  She hopes to become a neurosurgeon and return to China.
“God wants me to go back to China,” she said. “Someday if
Jesus calls me, I will be a missionary there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Golden in Boston at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  