-- China’s Stocks Drop for Second Day on Earnings Growth Concern
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-20T08:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/china-s-stocks-rise-to-highest-in-week-on-looser-policy-outlook-valuation.html
China’s stocks  fell for a second day
as concern earnings growth will slump outweighed speculation the
government will ease monetary policies to boost economic growth.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. (601600)  retreated 0.6 percent after
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. cut its profit forecast for
China’s biggest producer of the metal. Shippers China Cosco
Holdings Co. and China Shipping Container Lines Co. dropped at
least 1 percent on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will curb demand
for China’s exports.  China Vanke Co. (000002)  and Poly Real Estate Group
Co. rose as the China Securities Journal said the central bank
may cut lenders’ reserve requirement ratios in the near term.  “Corporate earnings projections will face massive downward
revisions this quarter and the first half because of domestic
tightening and weak exports,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West
China Securities Co. “Investors are anticipating a policy
change amid the backdrop of an economic slowdown.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 2.31 points, or 0.1
percent, to 2,215.93 at the close. Six stocks fell for every
five that gained. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  lost 0.3 percent to
2,377.07. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index , the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, retreated 2 percent
at the close in  New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite has declined 5 percent in December
as concern about an economic slowdown overshadowed the first cut
in reserve requirement ratios in three years on Nov. 30.  For the year, the measure is down 21 percent after the
central bank raised  interest rates  three times to curb inflation
and exports to Europe slowed because of the region’s debt
crisis. The index trades at an estimated price-earnings ratio of
10.6 times, a record low, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg that began to track the multiple since 2006.  Profit Downgrades  Aluminum Corp., the listed unit of nation’s biggest maker
of the lightweight metal, slid 0.6 percent to 6.57 yuan.
Shenyin & Wanguo lowered Chalco’s earnings per-share forecast
for this year by 38 percent to 0.05 yuan and for 2012 by 18
percent to 0.18 yuan because of rising costs from increases in
power rates.  Shandong Nanshan Aluminum Co.,  China ’s second largest
aluminum products maker, slipped 0.5 percent to 6.47 yuan.
Western Mining Co., the nation’s fourth-largest maker of zinc
concentrate, lost 0.2 percent to 9.24 yuan.  Earnings per-share for companies in the Shanghai Composite
may grow 9.7 percent in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compared with an increase of 25 percent in the
first half of the year, Bloomberg data showed.  ‘Tougher Time’  The death of North Korean leader Kim Jong-il may mean a
“tougher time” ahead for the Chinese economy, Barclays
Capital’s analysts Yiping Huang,  Jian Chang  and Lingxiu Yang
said in a report today. Kim’s death may make investors cautious
about China’s political and economic risks, contribute to a
faster deceleration in investment and lead to more capital
outflows, they said.  In Europe, central bank President  Mario Draghi  said
substantial risks to the economy remain and the law forbids him
from increasing government bond purchases to fight the crisis.
Europe accounts for about 18 percent of China’s exports,
according to Shenyin & Wanguo.  China Cosco, the world’s largest operator of dry-bulk
ships, lost 1.5 percent to 5.17 yuan. China Shipping Container
Lines, the country’s second-largest carrier of sea-cargo boxes,
retreated 1.2 percent to 2.53 yuan.  Reserve Ratios  The central bank will likely cut the required reserve ratio
for banks again in the near term, the China Securities Journal
said in a commentary today.  Monetary policy  may change to
neutral from tight with a “prudent” tone, according to the
commentary. Required reserve ratio cuts are the priority policy
tool to fine tune the  money supply , it said.  A gauge of property stocks on the Shanghai Composite rose
0.1 percent. Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property
developer, climbed 0.9 percent to 7.50 yuan. Poly Real Estate,
the second largest, added 0.1 percent to 10.08 yuan. Gemdale
Corp. gained 1 percent to 4.91 yuan.  Chinese home transactions declined in 29 out of 35 cities
tracked by Soufun Holdings Ltd. during Dec. 12-18, with 11
cities seeing drops exceeding 50 percent. Transactions fell more
than 60 percent in at least 5 cities, Soufun said.  China may start to “slowly” relax property curbs from the
third quarter next year,  Jing Ulrich , chairman of global markets
for China at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a late afternoon
briefing in Beijing yesterday. She expects three cuts in
lenders’ reserve requirements in the first half of 2012.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  