-- CNN’s Morgan Denies Hacking While at News Corp., Trinity Mirror Tabloids
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2011-12-20T18:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/cnn-s-morgan-denies-hacking-while-at-news-corp-trinity-mirror-tabloids.html
Piers Morgan , the host of  CNN ’s
“Tonight” program and former editor of three British tabloids,
told a U.K. inquiry into press ethics that he wasn’t involved in
phone hacking when he oversaw the newspapers.  Morgan, who edited  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) ’s  Daily Mirror 
between 1995 and 2004, denied a lawyer’s suggestion that phone
hacking was rampant at the newspaper under his leadership.
Morgan spoke at the inquiry today via video link.  “I have no reason or knowledge to believe it was going
on,” Morgan said of the practice of improperly accessing voice
mails. “Not a single person has made any formal or legal
complaint against the Daily Mirror for phone hacking -- not one.
So why would you say that?”  Morgan worked more than a year at News Corp.’s News of the
World tabloid, where the phone-hacking scandal started, and five
years at the company’s Sun newspaper. New York-based News Corp.
closed the News of the World and abandoned its bid for full
control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  in July after the
extent of the phone hacking scandal was revealed. Police have
arrested about 20 people since January in three probes related
to phone and computer hacking and bribery.  The inquiry heard evidence that Morgan had been played a
recording of a phone message left by ex-Beatle  Paul McCartney 
for his former wife,  Heather Mills . Morgan declined today to say
who played the message for him, prompting Judge Brian Leveson,
who is overseeing the inquiry, to say he may call Mills as a
witness.  Goodman Sympathy  Morgan also said he felt sympathy for former News of the
World reporter  Clive Goodman , who was jailed for phone-hacking
in 2007. At the time,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit said the illegal
practice was limited to a single “rogue” reporter.  One of the Daily Mirror’s most prominent scoops when Morgan
was editor was the 2002 revelation that England soccer team
manager, Sven-Goran Eriksson, was having an affair with a
television personality. In his 2009 book, “God Bless America,”
Morgan said the newspaper got the story after learning of a
“message left by the then-England manager on her phone.”  Morgan repeatedly denied suggestions by Robert Jay, the
lawyer representing Leveson, that numerous passages from
Morgan’s books and interviews over the years showed he was
uncritical of phone hacking and other unethical practices, such
as paying police for stories. Trinity Mirror has denied such
claims.  Morgan ended his testimony by criticizing the inquiry,
saying it was one-sided because it only focused on the bad
things that tabloids did, rather than the good. He said he felt
like a “rock star” being confronted with “worst-ever hits”
from his albums.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  