-- Colorado Budget Director Says $231 Million Revenue Surge Will Restore Cuts
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2011-12-20T21:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/colorado-budget-director-says-231-million-revenue-surge-will-restore-cuts.html
A $231 million increase in the
forecast for fourth-quarter  tax revenue  will allow  Colorado  to
restore planned cuts to public schools, Governor John Hickenlooper’s budget director said today.  The gains in income, sales and use taxes will help
officials plug gaps in funding for the 2012 and 2013 fiscal
years, said Henry Sobanet, director of the Governor’s Office of
State Planning and Budgeting, at a presentation to the
Legislature’s  Joint Budget Committee .  “We’re seeing a lot of activity that simply was not
evident during the summer, when there was a lot of turbulence
and uncertainty,” Sobanet told the committee. “Now we’re
seeing stronger employment and business activity.”  Sobanet said his office is preparing a supplemental budget
request for fiscal 2012 that will ask for $22 million to
accommodate increasing enrollment in public schools.  Gains in job growth and income-tax revenues will allow the
governor to restore $30 million to higher education and $67
million for public schools for fiscal 2013, Sobanet added.  “The cuts to K-12 education in next year’s budget were the
last and hardest to make,” Hickenlooper said in a statement.
“That’s why we want those cuts to be the first restored.”  The governor proposed using additional revenue to set aside
about $8 million for tax rebates for financially strapped
seniors and to increase grants for local communities from
severance taxes derived from natural gas, oil and other natural
resources extracted in  Colorado , by $8 million.  March 2012 Update  The Colorado  Legislature  will consider the governor’s
requests. Hickenlooper’s budget for fiscal 2013 will ultimately
be based on a March 2012 forecast update.  Sobanet cautioned that a 4.1 percent growth rate for fiscal
2012 is likely to slow next year to 1.1 percent, largely because
of the European debt crisis and tax-policy changes.  He attributed growth in the fourth quarter to capital gains
subject to income tax -- which represents 55 percent of the
state’s general-fund revenue -- realized after stock market
volatility this fall led investors to sell assets.  Job growth in manufacturing, oil and gas also helped
Colorado’s employment outperform the nation’s. The state posted
an 8 percent unemployment rate in November, compared with 8.6
percent nationally.  The state is on track to add 27,000 jobs this year -- the
largest annual gain since 2007, according to the forecast
released today by the  planning office .  An oil and gas boom in northeast Colorado led to the
restoration of all of the jobs lost in the state’s mining
industry since the recession began in 2008, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net . 