-- Columbia Student Jose Perez Pleads Guilty in Drug Case
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2011-12-20T20:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/columbia-student-jose-perez-pleads-guilty-in-drug-case-1-.html
Jose Stephan Perez, one of five
Columbia University students arrested a year ago and accused of
selling drugs on campus, pleaded guilty to a felony count of
drug possession.  The 21-year-old Atlanta resident pleaded guilty today in
 Manhattan  before Justice Michael Sonberg of state  Supreme Court ,
who in October rejected a request to allow Perez into a pretrial
diversion program. Perez will be able to withdraw his plea and
plead to a misdemeanor charge if he completes 300 hours of
community service in a year and stays out of trouble, the judge
said.  Prosecutors said undercover officers, in a five-month
investigation nicknamed “Operation Ivy League,” spent $11,000
buying drugs including cocaine, marijuana, ecstasy and LSD-laced
candy, with most sales taking place in common areas and bedrooms
of three fraternities. Perez was accused of selling  Adderall , a
drug used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.  “We’ve very pleased,” Perez’s attorney, Peter Frankel,
told reporters outside court today. “But we also think that’s
the appropriate outcome. He is the only defendant who was
charged with selling his lawful prescription, not illicit drugs
like cocaine or ecstacy.”  Perez is the third of the five arrested students to plead
guilty in the case.  Harrison David, 21, of Wrentham,  Massachusetts , pleaded
guilty in July to selling cocaine to an undercover officer in
exchange for six months in jail and five years of probation. He
began serving his prison term on Aug. 30.  Michael Wymbs, 23, of New York, pleaded guilty last month
to third-degree attempted criminal possession of a controlled
substance and was sentenced to five years’ probation. Sonberg
last week rejected a request by a fourth student,  Adam Klein ,
21, of Closter,  New Jersey , to enter into a pretrial diversion
program.  The fifth student, Christopher Coles, 21, of Philadelphia,
was ordered to return to jail today after testing positive for
marijuana, said Kati Cornell, a spokeswoman for the  New York 
City Special Narcotics Prosecutor’s Office.  Coles was granted entry into the pretrial diversion program
last month. His attorney,  Marc Agnifilo , didn’t return a message
left at his office seeking comment.  The diversion program, set up in 2009 as part of a reform
of the state’s so-called Rockefeller drug laws, allows judges to
divert some nonviolent offenders to treatment programs instead
of incarceration.  Perez will be volunteering with the National Council on
Alcoholism and Drug Dependence on East 58th Street and living in
New York with an aim of returning to school, said Frankel. Perez
was a Gates Millennium Scholar, one of 1,000 students each year
whose college tuition is paid for with a grant from the  Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation .  The case is People v. David, 00038N/2011, New York state
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 