-- Consumer Stocks May Lag as U.S. Restaurant Sales Slow: Retail
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2011-12-20T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/consumer-stocks-may-lag-as-u-s-restaurant-sales-slow-retail.html
Restaurant stocks are
underperforming the U.S. market, a signal that shares of retail
companies also may be poised to lag behind.  Income growth, one of the primary drivers of discretionary
spending, remains lackluster, as does the labor market, said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at RBC Capital Markets Corp. in
New York. Even with unemployment falling below 9 percent in
November for the first time since March, consumers still “lack
the ammunition to drive spending at this point,” he said.  Real disposable personal income, or the money left over
after taxes and adjusted for inflation, is down 0.4 percent
since December 2010, according to data from the Bureau of
Economic Analysis. Meanwhile, the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index has rebounded only about 4 points to minus 49.9 in the
week ended Dec. 11, from the record low reached during the midst
of the 18-month recession.  With both income growth and confidence weak, restaurants
are a “canary in the  coal mine ,” because dining out is “one
of the first things households cut during tough times,” said
 David Rosenberg , chief economist and strategist at Gluskin Sheff
& Associates Inc. in Toronto.  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , operator of more than 1,900
eateries, reduced its annual sales-growth forecast Dec. 6,
causing the shares to tumble 12 percent that day to $41.82, the
biggest drop since August 2008. Same-restaurant sales at its
 Olive Garden  chain fell 5.7 percent in November, the seventh
consecutive month of declines, the Orlando, Florida-based
company said Dec. 16 when it reported second-quarter earnings.  Flat-Screen Discounts  One retailer that’s already feeling the effect of value-
conscious consumers is  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the largest U.S.
electronics chain. Net income fell 29 percent to $154 million in
the quarter ended Nov. 26, the Richfield, Minnesota-based
company said Dec. 13, after it increased promotions, including
discounts on flat-panel televisions, to spur sales the day after
Thanksgiving. Its shares fell 15 percent on the income news --
the most since August 2002 -- to $23.73.  “Signs of consumer retrenchment are showing up first in
casual dining and may be spreading to other discretionary
categories like retail” -- a cautionary signal to investors
overweight in this category, said Mark Luschini, chief
investment strategist at Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC. He is “underweight” consumer-discretionary stocks.  The Bloomberg U.S. Full Service Restaurant Index -- which
includes casual-dining chains such as Darden and  Brinker
International Inc. (EAT)  -- has dropped 17 percent since July 13,
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has fallen 9 percent.
Meanwhile, the S&P Retail Select Industry Index -- including
Best Buy and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  -- is down 7 percent.  ‘Relatively Expensive’  Consumer-discretionary stocks are “relatively expensive”
compared with the market, which has attracted investors who
believe the  U.S. economy  won’t fall into another recession, said
Michael Darda, chief market strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
at MKM Partners LP. The sector, including retailers, is trading
at a premium of about 48 percent on a price-to-sales ratio
compared with the  S&P 500 , above its 18-year average, he said.  That may not last as the retail index tends to peak on a
relative basis in roughly six-month cycles, according to Jim Stellakis, the founder and director of technical research at New
York-based Technical Alpha. The recent rise has stalled, and the
sector “appears set up for a pullback,” he said.  The “weak showing” by Darden’s Olive Garden may reflect a
broader slowdown at full-service restaurants in early to mid-
November, said  Mark Kalinowski , a New York-based analyst at
Janney Montgomery Scott, who maintains a “neutral”
recommendation on the company. This “may not be the only
meaningful shoe to drop in casual dining over the next one-to-
three months,” he wrote in a Dec. 6 report.  Lure Shoppers  Best Buy wasn’t alone in trying to lure holiday shoppers on
Black Friday with steep discounts, said Dan Binder, an analyst
at Jefferies & Co. in New York.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) ,  Target
Corp. (TGT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  also increased promotions in what
they said is a “proactive step to maintain sales momentum,”
though at the risk of reducing gross margins, said Binder, who
has “hold” recommendations on these companies. Best Buy’s
gross profit fell 1.7 percent to $2.93 billion in its third
quarter from $2.98 billion a year earlier.  Even though retail sales rose 6.6 percent on Black Friday
to a record $11.4 billion, total sales for the month --including
dining services -- grew only 0.2 percent, based on data from
ShopperTrak, a Chicago-based research company, and the Census
Bureau. The November pace was the slowest in five months and
less than a forecast of 0.6 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  Slower Sales  “The strong Black Friday weekend wasn’t enough to offset
slower sales in the rest of the month and is a signal that
consumers are curbing their spending,” Rosenberg said.  There are other “fundamental” headwinds to spending,
including a declining saving rate, Darda said. Americans saved
 3.5 percent  of their disposable personal income in October,
after an almost four-year low of 3.3 percent in September, based
on  Bureau of Economic Analysis  data.  The prospect of tighter bank credit also suggests a
slowdown in retail-sales growth by March 2012, Binder said. The
net percentage of banks reporting increased willingness to make
consumer-installment loans dropped to 18.8 percent in October
after reaching a 17-year high of 28.8 percent in April,
according to a Federal Reserve senior loan-officer survey
released last month.  Less access to bank credit, along with the lower saving
rate, is likely to catch up with consumers, Binder said.
“Current growth rates aren’t sustainable unless job, wages or
credit start to improve,” he said.  Falling Unemployment  Falling unemployment -- November’s 8.6 percent rate was the
lowest since March 2009 -- may be a step in that direction. The
number of applications for jobless benefits dropped by 19,000 to
366,000 in the week ended Dec. 10, the lowest in three years,
and payrolls climbed 120,000 last month, up from 100,000 in
October, Labor Department figures showed.  Still, continued expectations of “a moderate pace of
economic growth over coming quarters,” indicates the jobless
rate will “decline only gradually,” Federal Reserve policy
makers said at their Dec. 13 meeting.  In the absence of a “very strong” and sustained
acceleration in the labor market, there may be a “pullback in
 consumer spending ” during the next few months, said Darda, who
has a “cautious” sector view.  This is likely to show up in the retail sector soon, as it
already has in restaurant stocks, according to Luschini.  “Investors are discounting a stronger rebound in retail
stocks than the expansion has produced to date,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson and Anthony Feld in  New York  at  ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  