-- Constancio Says ECB’s Three-Year Loans to Banks May Get Significant Demand
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2011-12-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/constancio-sees-significant-demand-for-ecb-loans-to-avert-credit-squeeze.html
European Central Bank Vice President
 Vitor Constancio  predicted “significant” demand for three-year
loans that the institution will make tomorrow to keep credit
flowing during the debt crisis.  “I cannot put a figure to it, but I would think that it
would be significant,” Constancio told Bloomberg Television in
an interview in Frankfurt yesterday. “It’s an important
instrument for banks. They face very high refinancing needs
early next year related to the repayment of medium-term debt.”  The ECB will offer banks unlimited cash for three years at
its  benchmark rate  of 1 percent to encourage lending and stave
off a credit crunch. It has also loosened rules on the
collateral banks can use to obtain the loans so that they can
borrow more.  “These measures should ensure that banks continue to have
access to stable funding, also at longer maturities, which gives
them the opportunity to continue lending to firms and
households,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  told the European
Parliament in Brussels yesterday.  Constancio spoke after presenting the ECB’s twice-yearly
Financial Stability Review, which says euro-area governments
must swiftly implement the reforms they agreed to at a Dec. 9
summit to mitigate the risk of the debt crisis spreading. Draghi
told lawmakers that the agreement has received less recognition
from investors than it deserves, and it was unrealistic to
expect a “silver bullet.”  Default Probability  Constancio said ECB analysis showed the probability of a
simultaneous default by two or more large euro-area banks within
one year has risen to about 25 percent from 15 percent in June.  Banks from the euro region need to refinance 35 percent
more debt in 2012 than they did this year, according to the  Bank
of England . Lenders have more than 600 billion euros ($808
billion) of debt maturing next year, around three quarters of
which is unsecured, according to the study.  The ECB’s loans will ensure that banks “cannot use the
excuse of not having funding or liquidity to embark into a more
significant deleveraging or a credit crunch,” Constancio said.  It’s not the ECB’s intention that banks use the three-year
loans to buy sovereign bonds, rather that they are able to
refinance themselves for the medium term, he said.  Asked if the ECB could step up its bond buying if needed to
ease market tensions, Constancio said the ECB never pre-commits
and the purchase program is “ongoing,” though “nothing on
earth is eternal or infinite.”  Treaty Rules  Draghi made the same point in his testimony, saying that
the ECB cannot go beyond the remit set out in the European Union
treaty because that would affect the institution’s credibility.  Asked if further interest-rate cuts are an option,
Constancio said the ECB has shown it will do what’s needed as
the situation evolves. The central bank reduced its key rate for
a second consecutive month in December.  “I don’t comment on what may be our future policy, but I
think that by now everyone in the market has concluded that, as
we have done several times, we really do what we consider
necessary, face the situation as it evolves,” Constancio said.  While the ECB’s baseline scenario is for “moderate,
positive growth throughout next year,” Constancio said that
“deflationary probabilities” would increase if there were
another recession. “But I don’t see really a possibility of
deflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in  Frankfurt  at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  