-- Cornell’s $2 Billion Campus Fuels N.Y.C. Search for Tech Jobs
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2011-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/cornell-s-2-billion-campus-fuels-n-y-c-search-for-tech-jobs.html
Broad sloping buildings roofed by
solar panels and swaddled in plants that filter storm water will
rise on an island in  New York ’s  East River .  That’s  Cornell University ’s vision for a new applied-
sciences campus in New York City. The school was named yesterday
as the winner of a competition set up by the city to build a
facility for job-spinning engineering research -- the way
 Stanford University  has helped seed innovation in Silicon
Valley.  The question now is whether the project will run counter to
the trend for spinoff jobs to flee the city for suburbia.  Seven proposals involving 15 universities were considered.
Cornell’s bid was bolstered by the announcement last week of an
anonymous $350 million gift to the university for the project.  Cornell, based in Ithaca, New York, worked with the
 Technion-Israel Institute of Technology  in Haifa on a $2 billion
proposal for a 10-acre campus on Roosevelt Island. The city
offered the site free, along with providing $100 million for
infrastructure work.  The project could involve more than 2 million square feet
for more than 2,000 students. The first 150,000-square-foot
building would generate as much power as it would use.  In Cornell’s proposal, designed by Skidmore, Owings &
Merrill LLP, people move through multilevel interior courtyards
lit by sun sliding between arrays of photovoltaic panels. The
courtyards become places where engineers meet entrepreneurs and
new media pioneers pitch budding venture capitalists.  Since the campus will be built over a number of years, it
could be shaped less by the technology of labs and more by the
collaborative necessity to bend very complex teams to daunting
tasks. The campus also exemplifies how much “green” design has
permeated the world of technology.  Uncertain Outlook  Beyond the campus, the economic upside for New York is far
from clear. The city has proved congenial to small media
startups and makers of applications, but can’t compete with the
suburbs’ cheaper, horizontal space once a company’s growth
requires more room.  New York City  is a powerhouse of medical research, for
example, but much of the spinoff wealth is created in drug labs
and medical-device makers that dot  New Jersey ’s suburbs.  And yet the intensely urban and collaborative engineering
scene in New York City suggests that tech must increasingly
leave isolating suburban office parks behind.  “Software and applications need the kind of dense
expertise that cities are full of,” said Seth W. Pinsky,
president of the sponsoring New York City Economic Development
Corporation in a telephone interview.  MIT, Harvard  High-tech companies that used to locate in office parks
along route 128 in  Boston ’s suburbs now tighten bonds with MIT
and Harvard by building large-scale labs in urban Cambridge.
That’s the kind of linkage New York City wants to build with the
major applied-sciences institution it doesn’t now have.  New York hopes that spinoffs create such a Cambridge-style
future for gentrifying  Long Island City , near Cornell’s planned
location. Inevitably, the spinoff would likely benefit the
region not just the city. That’s fine as long as suburbs share
the costs (mainly in transportation improvements).  Stanford University and  City College  of New York floated a
1.9-million-square-foot Roosevelt Island proposal featuring a
street hanging high in the air and dubbed “the river,” but
that was withdrawn last week. Other universities sought sites at
the Brooklyn Navy Yard, in midtown  Manhattan  and on  Governors
Island .  Falling Short  Before the competition was announced,  New York University 
had planned to expand its recently acquired Brooklyn
Polytechnic, but that campus is small and landlocked. Working
with five international institutions, it bid for the new campus
anyway.  Columbia University  offered a slice of its $7 billion
expansion in Manhattanville, but winning may have required the
university to shift away from its medical-research focus.  I hope the high environmental performance and the
seamlessly interweaved research and educational facilities
proposed by both Cornell and Stanford will spur NYU and Columbia
to look anew at their feeble, innovation-averse growth plans.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press has just
published his book, “The Agile City.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 