-- Croatia Reiterates Plea to Hungary to Interrogate Mol Chief
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2011-12-20T15:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/croatia-reiterates-plea-to-hungary-to-interrogate-mol-chief-1-.html
Mol Nyrt. (MOL)  Chairman Zsolt Hernadi
must be interrogated by either Hungarian or Croatian prosecutors
over his alleged role in the corruption trial of former Croatian
Premier Ivo Sanader,  Croatia ’s  Prosecutor General  said in a
statement on its website.  A request by the Croatian Office for Suppression of
Corruption and Organized Crime for help by Hungarian public
prosecutors in July was denied, claiming the protection of
 Hungary ’s national interests, the office said.  Croatia “is still conducting an investigation against
Zsolt Hernadi and has asked Hungarian judicial authorities
earlier this month to arrange his interrogation as a
prerequisite for concluding the investigation,” it said today.  Sanader is standing trial in Zagreb for taking a bribe of
10 million euros ($13.6 million) from the Hungarian  oil company 
between 2008 to 2009, when he was premier. In exchange, he
allegedly arranged with Hernadi to give it controlling rights
over Croatian refiner  INA Industrija Nafte d.d. (INARA)  in a January
2009 shareholding agreement. Mol and Sanader have denied the
accusations.  The investigation against Hernadi can be concluded “either
if Hungary fulfills the Croatian plea for interrogation, or if
Hungarian authorities interrogate Hernadi and deliver his
testimony” to Croatia, the prosecutor’s office said.  Reiterating Hernadi’s innocence, Mol today said Hernadi
gave a statement to Hungarian authorities as a witness in the
case, company spokesman Domokos Szollar said today in an e-
mailed statement.  During Sanader’s trial, a video recording that allegedly
showed Sanader exchanging a written message with Hernadi was
played in court on Nov. 18. The four-minute clip from their
lunch in October 2009 in a Zagreb restaurant, captured on the
surveillance camera, was admitted as evidence for the
prosecution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  