-- Cuomo Agrees to Taxi Bill That Adds $1 Billion to NYC Revenue
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2011-12-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/cuomo-says-deal-reached-on-new-york-city-taxi-medallion-sales.html
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  struck a deal
with lawmakers that will let  New York City  sell an additional
2,000 taxi medallions and permit so-called car services to pick
up passengers who hail them outside  Manhattan .  The bill will generate $1 billion in revenue for the city
and help reduce a $4.6 billion budget gap for the fiscal year
that starts July 1, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said yesterday in a
press briefing in  Albany , the capital, to announce the deal.  “The new law will make getting around town easier, safer
and less costly for millions of  New Yorkers ,” Bloomberg said in
a statement.  The agreement caps Cuomo’s first year as governor, during
which the Legislature passed a property-tax limit, a bill
legalizing same-sex marriage and a tax-code overhaul that raised
rates for those earning $2 million or more and cut them for the
middle class.  “This is probably for 30 or 40 years a situation that
defied solution and in that way it’s fitting that we end this
year on this piece of business,” the 54-year-old Democrat said.  The Legislature, which approved the  taxi (TAXI)  measure proposed
by Bloomberg in June, sent it to Cuomo Dec. 9, starting a 10-day
clock for him to either veto it or sign it.  Cuomo said the process was “truly peculiar” because it
was approved by lawmakers as a “placeholder bill, and everybody
was going to get together to work out the plan.”  The agreement requires all 2,000 of the new cabs to be
wheelchair-accessible. Cuomo had threatened to veto the
legislation unless the new cabs could accommodate the disabled.  Street Pickups  Car services, also known as livery cabs, will also be
permitted to pick up passengers who hail them on the street in
northern Manhattan and the other boroughs -- areas of “nearly
non-existent taxi availability,” according to an Assembly
memorandum. Previously, only yellow cabs were permitted to pick
up fares on the street, while car services were legally limited
to calls dispatched by radio.  In each of the next three years, the city will sell 6,000
livery-cab licenses, 20 percent of which will be for vehicles
that are accessible to disabled passengers, Cuomo said. Buyers
of the accessible licenses will receive grants of as much as
$15,000 to retrofit vehicles or buy new ones, he said.  “The governor and I are going to have big smiles on our
faces tonight,” Bloomberg said late yesterday. “This is
something that was three decades in the making, but tonight it
is getting done.”  Diluting Value  Fernando Mateo, president of the New York State Federation
of Taxi Drivers, said last week that new medallion sales would
dilute the value of his members’ investments. The medallions
sell for as much as $1 million at auction. The city has about
13,200 medallions.  Allowing “hailing privileges” to extend beyond yellow
cabs will hurt drivers who now have exclusive rights to that
business, Mateo said before the agreement was reached.  “Once you take away the exclusive right to pick up street
hails, the medallion is no longer going to be worth as much as
it is now, and that will make it more difficult to obtain
financing, as it won’t retain its value,” Mateo said.  The sale of additional taxi licenses may drive down shares
of Medallion Financial Corp., which owns medallions and lends
money to buyers. The governor’s announcement came the same day
Medallion Financial filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to sell as much as $100 million in securities. The
shelf filing permits the company to register the securities in
advance and sell them when financing needs arise or market
conditions are favorable.  Medallion Financial gained 11 cents, or about 1 percent, to
$11.53 in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading yesterday. The
shares have gained 41 percent this year, compared with a 7.21
percent drop in the  Russell 2000 Financial Services Index (RGUSFS) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  