-- Czech Central Bank Leaves Main Interest Rates Unchanged as Koruna Weakens
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2011-12-21T14:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/czech-policy-makers-to-leave-rates-unchanged-on-weaker-koruna.html
The Czech central bank left  interest
rates  unchanged for a 13th meeting as a weaker koruna keeps
policy makers from lowering borrowing costs as signaled in the
bank’s latest forecast.  The bank board voted 7-0 today in favor of no change to
rates as it weighed a worsening economic outlook against
accelerating inflation at the final meeting of the year. The
decision matched the forecasts of all 21 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. The Ceska Narodni Banka has kept the  two-week repurchase
rate  at a record-low 0.75 percent since May 2010, a quarter-
point less than the  European Central Bank ’s main rate.  “Although we see the risks as slightly pro-inflationary,
it doesn’t mean that we cannot imagine that the next move may be
in any direction,” Governor Miroslav Singer told reporters in
 Prague . “At this moment, it appears more likely that the move
will be upward though this doesn’t necessarily have to happen
any time soon.”  The bank has said the koruna’s moves are important for
future rate decisions as a firming currency tames inflationary
pressures and tightens monetary conditions, while its weakening
makes imports more expensive. The koruna has lost 3.6 percent to
the euro this quarter, the second-worst performance among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Weaker Koruna  The koruna weakened 0.2 percent to trade at 25.613 to the
euro as of 3:08 p.m. in Prague. The central bank forecast an
average exchange rate of 24.8 for the fourth quarter of the
year.  A weaker koruna and faster-than-forecast inflation at the
moment are pro-inflationary risks, Singer said. Developments in
the Czech and euro-area economies show that the bank’s
alternative scenario is materializing, he said.  The central bank’s base forecast, published Nov. 3, sees
the koruna gaining next year, with the average  exchange rate  at
23.1 to the euro. It assumes a decline in market interest rates
by the end of the year.  The bank also prepared an alternative scenario which sees a
“sharp slowdown” in the euro area’s economic growth next year.
Under this outlook, the koruna would be weaker, averaging 24.2
per euro, and market interest rates would stay stable.  Pared Bets  Investors in interest-rate derivatives pared bets that the
Czech central bank will reduce borrowing costs as inflation
accelerated. Forward-rate agreements fixing three-month interest
costs in six months rose to 1.02 percent today, from 0.98
percent on Nov. 4 after the last rate decision. The Prague
interbank offered rate was 1.17 percent today.  The  inflation  rate rose to a 35-month high of 2.5 percent
in November, mainly on food costs. Inflation relevant for
monetary policy, which is price growth stripped of the primary
impact of increases in indirect taxes, was also 2.5 percent,
more than the central bank’s target of 2 percent. The  economy 
shrank 0.1 percent in the third quarter from the previous three
months, the first quarterly contraction since a 2009 recession.  Government austerity measures are curbing domestic demand,
with household consumption falling 0.5 percent in the July-
September period and state spending declining 0.4 percent,
according to statistics office data. Czech exports also weakened
as the euro-area’s debt crisis curbed demand for products
including cars, auto parts and electronics goods.  Export-Driven Economy  Czech growth depends on demand for its products from the EU
as the bloc buys about 80 percent of the country’s exports, with
Germany accounting for a third. The slowdown mirrors the
situation in many European countries where central banks are
assessing the effects of the credit crunch on their economies.  “Given the expected recession in the euro area and the
 Czech Republic , and an absence of demand driven inflationary
pressures, we see room for a reduction in the main rate to 0.5
percent in the first quarter of next year,” Vaclav  France , an
analyst at Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague, said after the decision.  Hungary increased the  European Union’s  highest  benchmark 
interest rate by half a percentage point to 7 percent yesterday
after the trading bloc and the  International Monetary Fund 
suspended talks on a bailout, threatening to pressure local
assets.  Poland ’s monetary authority has kept the benchmark rate
at 4.5 percent since July after raising borrowing costs by a
combined 1 percentage point in the first half of the year.  While the koruna will probably be an important factor for
the central bank’s decision-making, the weight of domestic
demand is likely to prevail,  Jaromir Sindel , Citigroup’s Inc.
Chief Economist for the Czech Republic and Slovakia in Prague,
said in a note to clients.  “All in all, the CNB has to manage its koruna dilemma,”
Sindel said. “We expect some form of verbal fine-tuning from
the CNB to continue, that is sounding hawkish to limit koruna
weakness, but not too much to provide relief for exporters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  