-- AT&T’s Deal Death Shows Stronger U.S. Antitrust Hand in Mergers
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2011-12-20T13:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/death-of-at-t-deal-may-signal-stronger-washington-antitrust-case-scrutiny.html
The death of  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s bid to buy
T-Mobile USA Inc. shows that U.S. officials are giving mergers
tougher scrutiny.  AT&T, the largest U.S. telephone company, said yesterday
that it was ending the $39 billion deal following a lawsuit from
the Justice Department and opposition from the Federal
Communications Commission.  “With AT&T pulling the plug, it’s pretty clear this
administration has changed the landscape on merger policy” with
stricter enforcement,  Paul Gallant , a Washington-based analyst
with Guggenheim Partners, said in an interview.  AT&T wooed Democratic-leaning labor unions, winning support
from the Communications Workers of America and the AFL-CIO. It
drew letters of support filed with the FCC from groups
representing cattle ranchers, songwriters, balloonists,
governors and technology companies.  The approach ultimately failed because AT&T, led in
 Washington  by  Jim Cicconi , senior executive vice president, 
misjudged the regulatory atmosphere, Craig Aaron, president of 
policy group Free Press, said in an interview. Now AT&T ends up
with a pretax charge of at least $4 billion to reflect cash 
payments and other considerations to T-Mobile owner  Deutsche
Telekom AG. (DTE)   “AT&T thought it could get it done simply because of its
political clout,” said Aaron, whose group is based in Florence,
 Massachusetts . “After years and years, there didn’t seem to be
such a thing as antitrust enforcement any more. But now it’s
clear, for some deals, there is.”  Lobbying Proves Futile  AT&T, based in Dallas, spent $16 million lobbying in the
first nine months this year, more than in all of 2010 and
exceeding every corporation except General Electric Co. and
ConocoPhillips, according to the Center for Responsive politics,
a Washington-based research group.  AT&T’s political committee gave $1.7 million this year to
federal candidates and political parties, more than any other
corporate PAC except Honeywell International Inc., according to
Federal Election Commission records.  “This shows that future deals can’t expect a rubber
stamp,” Aaron said. “It sets an important precedent that the
most egregious deals can’t be pushed through with campaign cash
and the endorsement of balloon enthusiasts.”  The environment is changing as regulators also scrutinize
 Express Scripts  Inc.’s proposed purchase of Medco Health
Solutions Inc. The $29.1 billion acquisition, which would result
in the largest U.S. manager of pharmacy benefits for employers,
insurers and union health plans, is under review by the Federal
Trade Commission. States have opened inquiries into the sale
out of concern that the combined company will command too much
market power.  Let Markets Work  Express Scripts, based in  St. Louis , plunged 22 percent
through yesterday from July 21, the day the deal was announced.
Medco, based in Franklin Lakes,  New Jersey , dropped 15 percent.  The political process “should allow the free markets to work
so that additional spectrum is available to meet the immediate needs
of the U.S. wireless industry,”  Randall Stephenson , chief executive
officer of AT&T, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “Policy
makers should enact legislation to meet our nation’s longer-term
spectrum needs.” He didn’t offer a specific legislative proposal in
his statement.  Andrew Jay Schwartzman, policy director of Media Access
Project, a Washington-based nonprofit  law firm , said in an
interview that AT&T mistakenly concluded that “politics could
trump law.”  ‘Embolden the FCC’  He added, “I hope this will embolden the FCC and
Department of Justice to remain vigilant in the face of
political pressure.”  AT&T’s decision is a victory for consumers, Sharis Pozen,
acting assistant attorney general and the top antitrust official
in the  Justice Department , said in an e-mailed statement.  “Had AT&T acquired T-Mobile, consumers in the wireless
marketplace would have faced higher prices and reduced
innovation,” she said.  The FCC wants a competitive market that drives innovation
and creates jobs,  Julius Genachowski , the agency’s chairman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  “This deal would have done the opposite,” Genachowski
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Walsh at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net  