-- Deutsche Telekom Buys Time for T-Mobile From Breakup Package
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2011-12-20T22:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/deutsche-telekom-3-billion-breakup-fee-from-at-t-buys-time-for-t-mobile.html
Deutsche Telekom AG , whose proposed
$39 billion sale of T-Mobile USA to  AT&T Inc. (T)  collapsed
yesterday, has about a year before it needs to start the search
for another partner amid rising costs for improving its network.  A breakup package that includes the payment of $3 billion
in cash to Deutsche Telekom will only cover T-Mobile’s expenses
for 12 to 24 months, said Wolfgang Specht, an analyst at WestLB
AG in Dusseldorf. If T-Mobile doesn’t find a new partner after
that time, it risks failing to generate enough operating cash
flow to cover  capital spending , he said.  “Stabilization is the first step and then it’s about
finding a new partner in the medium term,” said Specht, who has
an “add” recommendation on Deutsche Telekom shares. “In the
long run a standalone strategy seems impossible. Everything from
here on is only a second-best solution.”  AT&T and Deutsche Telekom agreed to abandon this year’s
biggest transaction, which would have created the largest U.S.
mobile-phone operator and dethroned market leader  Verizon
Wireless . Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom cited unwillingness by the
U.S.  Justice Department  and the Federal Communications
Commission to change their “non-supportive stance” even after
the companies proposed changes to the size and structure of the
March 20 transaction. The Justice Department sued in August to
block the deal.  Roaming Agreement  Deutsche Telekom  fell  0.6 percent to 8.84 euros at the
close of trading in Frankfurt, valuing  Europe ’s largest phone
company at 38.2 billion euros ($50 billion). The stock has
dropped 8.5 percent this year. Dallas-based AT&T climbed 1.3
percent to close at $29.12 in  New York .  T-Mobile’s value has fallen to about $19 billion, Berenberg
Bank analyst Paul Marsch wrote in a Dec. 12 note, citing a
survey the bank held with about 40 investors “a few weeks
back.”  To generate cash, Deutsche Telekom may reconsider plans to
sell its tower network in the U.S., Chief Financial Officer
Timotheus Hoettges said on a conference call today. A sale of
those assets, which was considered until the AT&T agreement, may
bring as much as $3 billion, said Jonathan Atkin, an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets .  In addition to the $3 billion in cash, T-Mobile will
receive a package of wireless frequencies from AT&T in 128
market areas, including  Los Angeles , Dallas, Houston,  Washington 
and  San Francisco . The separation agreement also includes a
roaming deal lasting at least seven years, which Deutsche
Telekom said will improve T-Mobile’s coverage to 280 million
potential customers from 230 million.  Investment Needs  The entire package is valued at about $6 billion, Chief
Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  said on the call, citing
estimates by experts.  “Our first and biggest challenge is to improve the
spectrum situation,” Obermann said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “The current spectrum is not good enough for a
clear path to LTE and we’ll have to find alternative
solutions.”  T-Mobile USA  spent about $3 billion annually on  capital
expenditures  in recent years, including network upgrades, the
CEO said. Upgrading to the faster long-term evolution technology
being rolled out by its competitors, including new spectrum, may
cost $8 billion to $9 billion and such a process may take three
years, RBC’s Atkin said.  T-Mobile USA lost 849,000 contract customers in the first
nine months of the year. Its operating income before
depreciation and amortization was $3.91 billion in that period,
compared with $4.14 billion a year earlier.  European Woes  T-Mobile USA CEO Philipp Humm has done an “excellent” job
during recent months, Obermann said, adding that he considers
the manager “well-placed” to continue running the business.  Obermann had planned to part with T-Mobile USA to focus on
restoring growth in Europe amid a debt crisis that has reduced
demand for phone services. Before Deutsche Telekom agreed on the
deal with AT&T, it had also held talks with  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ,
people with knowledge of the matter said in March. Sprint
remains a potential suitor for T-Mobile in the future, said
RBC’s Atkin.  “They’ll need to make the asset as competitive as they
can, not only to bring in good results for the operating
business, but also in order to fetch a better price at a future
date,” he said.  Deutsche Telekom, which has vowed that its U.S. unit must
finance itself, may also consider an initial public offering for
the business or issue debt through the division, said Mark Chapman, an analyst at  CreditSights  in  London .  Network Upgrades  Obermann declined to comment today on a potential
partnership or a sale of T-Mobile USA to another company, adding
that Deutsche Telekom will concentrate on improving T-Mobile’s
operating performance. The spectrum from the breakup package
won’t be enough to cover upgrades to LTE technology, Obermann
said.  “In the longer term we have disadvantages with regards to
scale and mobile frequencies,” he said. “That’s why in the
coming months we’ll look closely into how we will be able to
offer LTE despite the scarcity of spectrum.”  T-Mobile may reduce the costs of an LTE rollout by sharing
next-generation wireless infrastructure with AT&T or Sprint,
Atkin said. For additional frequencies, T-Mobile may look to
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  or Sprint for more spectrum, or wait for the
next round of spectrum auctions in the U.S., which may come in
as little as six months, he said.  Verizon Deal  T-Mobile missed a potential opportunity to purchase
additional wireless frequencies this month after Verizon
Wireless agreed to buy spectrum valued at $3.6 billion from
cable companies  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and
closely held Bright House Networks LLC. Phone companies need
wireless frequencies to add capacity to meet increasing demand
for high-speed mobile Internet devices.  “We think they will go back to the old fashioned sort of
plan - run the business,” Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Robin Bienenstock  wrote in a note today. “T-Mobile USA will compete
for prepaid customers and hope that Sprint or someone else comes
under enough strain they free up more spectrum.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  