-- Dexia Belgian, French Guarantees May Get EU Approval Tomorrow
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2011-12-20T13:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/dexia-belgian-french-guarantees-may-get-eu-approval-tomorrow.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the French-Belgian lender
that’s being broken up, may get temporary European Union
approval for as much as 45 billion euros (58.9 billion) in
guarantees from Belgium, France and Luxembourg tomorrow.  The EU’s decision could come as soon as tomorrow and should
be “positive,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
told reporters in Brussels today. “Hopefully, I will be able to
announce the decision” tomorrow.  Dexia, rescued by the Belgian, French and Luxembourg
governments in October for the second time in three years,
obtained as much as 45 billion euros in guarantees from the
countries to cover its financing needs until the end of May, the
Paris- and Brussels-based bank said in a statement on Dec. 5.
The bank today sealed a deal to sell its Luxembourg unit, Dexia
Banque Internationale à Luxembourg SA, for a total of 730
million euros to Precision Capital of Qatar.  The temporary guarantee is “the first step” for the three
governments to provide as much as 90 billion euros, Dexia said
earlier this month.  Belgium  is taking on 60.5 percent of the
amount, France 36.5 percent and Luxembourg 3 percent.  The bank will likely have to submit extra restructuring
measures to show how it plans to compensate for harm to
competition caused by the state aid before it can win final EU
approval for the rescue. Dexia is planning to “radically shrink
in size” and won’t have to comply with capital rules set by the
European Banking Authority, it said in a Dec. 8 statement.  Dexia, once the world’s largest municipal lender, said Nov.
9 its shareholder equity shrank 84 percent after the
nationalization of its Belgian bank unit and declines in the
value of government-bond holdings.  Belgian  borrowing costs  started surging after a caretaker
government bought Dexia’s Belgian banking unit for 4 billion
euros and agreed to guarantee as much as 54.5 billion euros of
the crisis-hit lender’s liabilities for as long as 10 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ,
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 