-- Dexia to Sell Luxembourg Unit for $950M
-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2011-12-20T09:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/dexia-reaches-pact-to-sell-luxembourg-unit-for-950-million-1-.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the French-Belgian lender
being broken up after running out of short-term funding, signed
an agreement to sell its Luxembourg unit for 730 million euros
($950 million).  Precision Capital of Qatar will buy 90 percent of Dexia
Banque Internationale à Luxembourg SA, Dexia said today in a
statement. Luxembourg will pay 73 million euros of the overall
price to acquire the remaining 10 percent.  “It’s a good deal for Dexia, a good deal for BIL and a
good deal for Luxembourg,” Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said in a telephone interview after the deal was
announced. “This deal constitutes an important step in the
strategic development of BIL’s national and international
outlook and consolidates its systemic importance for the
Luxembourg financial sector.”  Dexia, once the world’s largest municipal lender, is being
dismantled after concern over European sovereign debt caused its
short-term funding to evaporate. The lender sold its Belgian
banking unit to that nation’s government and  France ’s Caisse des
Depots & Consignations agreed to take control of the subsidiary
that funds its French municipal-lending business.  Shares in Dexia  fell as much as 4.2 percent in Brussels
trading. The stock was down 1.5 percent at 33.1 cents at 10:07
a.m. local time.  Dexia Asset Management  Dexia BIL’s participation in Dexia Asset Management
Luxembourg and RBC Dexia Investor Services Ltd. will be disposed
of separately, according to the statement. The Luxembourg unit’s
legacy securities and its stakes in Dexia LDG Banque and
Parfipar will be transferred to Dexia before the closing of the
transaction, said Dexia, which is based in Paris and Brussels.  Frieden said he expects regulatory approval by the European
Union and Luxembourg in the next few weeks.  Dexia, rescued by Belgium, Luxembourg and France in October
for the second time in three years, has obtained as much as 45
billion euros in guarantees from the three governments to cover
its financing needs until the end of May, the bank said on Dec.
5. The support will help the lender complete its planned asset
sales, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  