-- Doctors 27% Medicare Pay Cut Won’t be Unlinked From Tax Bill in U.S. House
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2011-12-20T18:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/doctors-27-medicare-pay-cut-won-t-be-unlinked-from-tax-bill-in-u-s-house.html
House Republicans  have no plans to
move a stand-alone bill to reverse a 27-percent cut in Medicare
fees to doctors that’s set to go into effect Jan. 1, a spokesman
for Speaker  John Boehner  said.  Both the House and Senate have opted to address  Medicare 
payments to doctors as part of the impasse over extending a
payroll-tax cut set to expire at the end of the year. Congress
is deadlocked over the tax, which has become the end-of-session
vehicle for unrelated issues, including fees for Medicare, the
U.S. insurer for those 65 and older and the disabled.  House Republicans aren’t planning to address physician fees
in a separate bill, said  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner,
in an e-mail. If the cut isn’t reversed, doctors would absorb
the largest single decline in federal reimbursements in the
history of the program, raising concerns physician will limit
how many new Medicare patients they accept.  “Medicare patients should not become the collateral damage
of a political battle,” said Joyce Rogers, senior vice
president of  AARP , the largest advocacy organization for the
elderly. “Congress should pass legislation that reinforces
doctors’ faith in the Medicare payment system and gives current
and future Medicare beneficiaries the security of knowing that
they can get the care they need.”  Time to Act  Medicare, in a statement sent to doctors and other health
care providers yesterday, said it can use administrative tools
to hold off on actually making payments at the lower rates for
10 business days, though Jan. 17. That would give Congress time
to come back and act should the current effort fail entirely.  “We continue to urge Congress to take action to ensure
these cuts do not take effect,” the statement said.  The  American Medical Association , based in  Chicago , has
been coordinating lobbying by state medical associations and
specialist societies against the cut. The group also ran TV and
radio ads against the cuts.  “Waiting until the last week of the legislative session to
address a problem that Congress knew was looming all year is not
the way to conduct our nation’s business,” said Peter Carmel,
the group’s president, in an e-mailed statement. “A permanent
solution is the long overdue, fiscally responsible approach.”  Closed Offices  Doctors won’t be able to keep their offices open or see
Medicare patients with the cut, Carmel, a pediatric neurosurgeon
in  Newark ,  New Jersey , said in an interview last month.  Cardiologists have been moving from private practice to
hospital work to insulate themselves from uncertainty over
Medicare reimbursements, said Jack Lewin, chief executive
officer of the  American College of Cardiology .  “Doctors will go in and take care of heart attacks and
life-threatening cardiovascular conditions for people with
Medicare,” he said. “But elective things, chronic conditions,
people will think twice about whether they want to do that
because that’s how the financing goes. Patients will have less
access to care.”  Stopping cuts to Medicare’s physician rates has become an
annual ritual for Congress, which has faced the problem since
the start of the last decade and passed short-term “fixes”
that last for a year or six months. A permanent overhaul of the
formula has been tough to come by, partly because of its $290
billion cost, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  