-- Double Whammy for Firms With Record Debt: India Credit
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2011-12-22T00:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/double-whammy-for-corporates-as-record-debt-payments-looming-india-credit.html
(Corrects amount in second paragraph in story from Dec.
21.)  Indian companies have a record $11.4
billion of dollar-denominated bonds to repay in 2012 just as the
rupee falls to an all-time low and borrowing costs in the U.S.
currency exceed all but one of  Asia ’s markets.  The debt coming due next year is more than double the
average annual amount since 2007 of $5.6 billion, with  ICICI
Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  and Bank of Baroda holding the most, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on Indian company dollar-
denominated bonds have increased for five straight quarters and
sit at 6.83 percent, the second-highest level among 11 Asian
countries tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc.  The rupee’s 15 percent drop against the dollar this year to
the weakest level in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to
1973 makes paying back dollar debt more expensive for Indian
companies earning income in the currency. Lower profits will
damp an economy that Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said will
expand 7.5 percent in the fiscal year ending March 31.  “There is a dual impact on widening of refinancing costs
and the depreciating rupee,” Ananda Bhoumik, a Mumbai-based
vice president at  Fitch Ratings  said in a phone interview on
Dec. 16. “Dollar spreads have widened overseas, so refinancing
debt through borrowing abroad is also costlier.”  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold dollar-denominated
bonds sold by Indian companies rather than U.S. Treasuries rose
290 basis points, or 2.9 percentage points, this year to 615.2
basis points as of Dec. 20, according to indexes compiled by
HSBC. Borrowers are paying a premium that’s more than double the
262 basis-point spread for debt of U.S. corporates, according to
Bank of American Merrill Lynch indexes.  No Access  Yields on  India ’s corporate bonds may be pushed higher by a
decline in benchmark Treasury bonds, with yields on 10-year
Treasury notes expected to rise 88 basis points to 2.7 percent
by the end of 2012, according to 70 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “Our liquid funds and repayments from the asset side would
be the primary source of funding for meeting the bond repayment
obligations and we do not expect to access the markets for
refinancing,” ICICI Bank said in an e-mailed reply to questions
Dec. 20. Bank of Baroda Chairman Mangalore Devadas Mallya
declined to comment on Dec. 20.  Indian companies sold $9.2 billion of non-rupee bonds this
year, compared with $8.7 billion last year, according to  data (BOB) 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The rupee’s fall is beyond any speculation and now
issuers have to ensure they repay bondholders,” M.V. Tanksale,
chairman of  Central Bank of India , said in an interview on Dec.
20. “Their refinancing options are few because domestic
liquidity is tight and there is a debt crisis in  Europe .”  Europe’s Debt Crisis  Relative yields on company bonds from the U.S. to Europe
and Asia have risen 102 basis points to 271 this year as the
European sovereign debt crisis intensified, threatening global
growth and corporate earnings. That’s the biggest annual
increase since a 329 basis-point jump in 2008, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.  “Issuers would resort to an approach that doesn’t disrupt
their business processes and that won’t hamper investor
confidence,” Arun Kaul, chairman of Kolkata-based Uco Bank said
in a phone interview on Dec. 20. “They will have to bear a cost
for this which has risen in an unprecedented way in the form of
a sharp depreciation in the rupee.”  Refinancing overseas debt in the next 12 months may be
challenging for Indian companies “if Europe’s credit crunch
reaches Asia and causes spreads to widen or curtails lending,”
 Moody’s Investors Service  said in a Dec. 14 report.  Rising Yields  Lenders  borrowed  1.7 trillion rupees ($32 billion) from the
 Reserve Bank  of India overnight on Dec. 19, the most this year,
indicating a shortage of cash in the banking system. They
borrowed 1.6 trillion rupees on Dec. 20, according to central
bank data.  ICICI Bank, India’s largest private lender, has the
equivalent of $3.7 billion of principal payments on bonds and
loans due in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Bank of
Baroda, based in Vadodara in the western state of Gujarat, has
$216 million of interest payments due, the data show.  The rupee rose 0.6 percent to 52.56 per dollar as of 3:18
p.m. in  Mumbai  yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Yields on  10-year government bonds  have gained 40 basis
points this year as the  central bank  raised the benchmark
repurchase  rate  by 375 basis points since March 2010 to curb
inflation.  Reserve Bank of India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao left
the rate unchanged at a three-year high of 8.5 percent on Dec.
16, halting the fastest round of increases on record.  Yields on the 8.79 percent bonds due November 2021 rose 6
basis points to 8.33 percent in Mumbai yesterday, according to
the central bank’s trading system.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring the debt of  State Bank of India 
against non-payment was little changed at 395 basis points on
Dec. 20, up from 161 at the end of last year, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
 State Bank  is regarded as a proxy for the nation, which doesn’t
have dollar debt.  Credit-default swaps insuring the sovereign debt of the
biggest emerging-market nations have also increased. Contracts
on  Brazil  have risen 53 basis points to 164 this year, while
those on  China  have more than doubled to 150, according to CMA.
Russia’s are up 129 to 276. The swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Rupee ‘Surprise’  Sales of rupee-denominated bonds plunged 15 percent to 1.7
trillion rupees this year as companies sought cheaper methods of
fundraising, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The cost of borrowing in rupee bond markets is 251 basis
points higher than average yields for dollar debt, with five-
year  AAA rated corporate debt  yielding 9.34 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The rupee’s fall will come as a surprise for many
companies,” Parthasarathi Mukherjee, Mumbai-based president of
treasury and international banking at Axis Bank Ltd., the
biggest rupee-denominated bond arranger this year, said in a
phone interview on Dec. 19. “Some companies will be under
pressure and defaults can’t be entirely ruled out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  