-- Drachma Threat Confronts Greeks as Country Teeters on Edge of Losing Euro
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2011-12-20T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/drachma-threat-confronts-greece-on-precipice.html
Athens  restaurant owner Mike Zoulas
says generations of his family have paid the price for a divided
Europe and now is the time to fight to keep it together.  His German grandmother fled Konigsberg, now the Russian
enclave of  Kaliningrad , ahead of advancing Soviet forces in
1945. His Greek father fled Smyrna in  Turkey  with his mother in
1922 for Thessaloniki. His father left Greece again in 1946
during the Greek civil war, arriving in the U.K. with a five-
pound note before finding work in France, Brazil and  Germany .  “Sometimes you just have to dig in,” said Zoulas, a 46-
year-old father of three who opened his eatery in the Greek
capital in July as European Union leaders pledged a second
rescue package for  Greece ’s indebted economy. “Migration isn’t
an option. My family has moved too many times.”  Looming economic collapse has become a way of life for
Greeks as they weigh permanent cuts in wages and pensions
against acceptance, emigration or a defiance that may lead to
expulsion from the euro. Doubts that Greece can stay the course
have destroyed confidence in Europe’s ability to deal with the
debt crisis, swelling the borrowing costs of countries like
 Italy  and  Spain  and sparking market speculation that the euro
area will disintegrate.  “Greece is really skating on the edge,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank Plc in  London .
“The fundamental issue is that there isn’t much buffer against
potential shocks in the bailout program. The last thing we need
in  Europe  is Greece to take center stage again.”  ‘Only Chance’  Ensuring Greece keeps the euro is the job of Prime Minister
 Lucas Papademos , the former European Central Bank vice president
who helped steer the country into the currency a decade ago.  Unemployment is close to a record, with more than 40
percent of those aged under 24 out of work. The economy is set
to shrink for a fifth year, the worst slump since World War II,
and Greeks are sending  bank deposits  abroad at the fastest rate
in at least a decade.  Seven general strikes have shut down the country this year,
leaving garbage piling up in the streets and stranding
travelers. Angry protesters have attacked politicians at public
gatherings and outside the Greek Parliament, pelting them with
yogurt and eggs, and calling them traitors.  “Greece belongs to Europe and there is no concept of
Europe without Greece,” Papademos told lawmakers in parliament
in Athens on Dec. 6. “But our participation in the euro means
rules and obligations that must be abided by.”  Asset Deterioration  Abandoning the euro would make the situation infinitely
worse, Papademos says. Inflation accompanying the adoption of a
new currency would hurt worker incomes; servicing euro-
denominated debt would be more difficult, if not impossible; and
the value of public and private Greek assets would plummet.  “The country has to try and stay in the euro area at all
cost, with anything it takes,” said Kostas Dimitrokalis, 53, an
hotelier on the island of Santorini. “It is the only chance,
and the last probably, for Greece to be able to call itself a
member of the European family and not the third world.”  EU and International Monetary Fund creditors say an
overhaul of everything from labor rules to how taxi licenses are
granted will bring lasting fiscal stability and transform a
Greek state that ran up debts that may almost double the size of
the economy in 2013 without action.  Implementing those changes is no easy task in a country
where bus drivers can get state-paid wages of 50,000 euros and
some retirees earned more than they did when they worked.  “People need to understand not just how to finance the
debt, but how to finance a cultural change,” said Zoulas.  Desperate Times  In Athens, homeless people sleep overnight in central
Syntagma Square, the venue for the protests in front of
parliament, amid the trees festooned with Christmas lights.
Illegal immigrants with shopping trolleys roam the streets of
central Athens salvaging disused water heaters,  DVD players  and
other items left on the sidewalks of the city.  Zoulas said he tailored his business to what Greece must
become rather than what it was.  After riots greeted former Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s struggle in June to impose austerity to gain EU
funds, Zoulas and his two partners spent 45,000 euros of their
savings to open their restaurant, Kalamaki, named for the
slivers of meat grilled on skewers that it sells.  Skirting banks who wouldn’t lend them seed-money, and
picking up a lease 30 percent lower than the previous tenant’s,
Kalamaki now provides 12 young Greeks with jobs, selling
traditional servings of chicken and pork in a restaurant, though
at fast-food prices.  Price Crisis  “We don’t call it crisis prices, we call it adjustment,”
Zoulas said in the restaurant in the Athens neighborhood of
Koukaki, near the Acropolis. “You go for 100 euros a day
instead of 10,000 euros a week.”  Zoulas’s wife, an employee in the Justice Ministry, has
seen her income drop by about 33 percent as the government
reduces allowances, he said.  Civil servants had an additional 20 percent wage cut this
year, on top of the 15 percent already mandated under the May
2010 agreement with the EU and IMF for emergency money.  In September, the tax-free threshold was lowered a second
time, to 5,000 euros, heralding a higher bill for all. The
owners of 5 million homes and stores will pay a special tax on
their properties before the end of the year after Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos declared in September that tax
collection efforts were failing.  ‘Vampire State’  “The Greek state doesn’t serve, protect or build ethical
rules,” Zoulas said. “It’s only function is to absorb
revenues. You have to deal with a vampire state. You can’t take
a stake to the heart because you need to find the heart.”  Consumer confidence  fell in October to the lowest level
since March 2009 as international lenders withheld funds to
extract commitments from a government struggling to implement
what it promised. Cash held at domestic banks by consumers and
businesses has declined 33.2 billion euros, or 16 percent, since
December 2010, figures from the  Bank of Greece (TELL)  show.  Banks lost 6.8 billion euros of deposits in October alone,
the biggest drop since the country joined the euro. The drain
continued in the first 10 days of November as Papandreou
proposed and then withdrew his idea for a referendum on the
latest aid package agreed with the EU in late October.  Union Threat  Even as Papademos, 64, secured a fragile alliance of three
parties after Papandreou fell, unions took up the challenge.  On Nov. 16, union members at  Public Power Corp. SA (PPC)  cut
electricity to the  Health Ministry  to protest the new property
tax being levied through power bills. Riot police broke up an
occupation of the bill-processing unit.  Such events “blacken the image of this country abroad,”
said Dimitrokalis, the hotel owner whose company had “a great
season” this summer. A return to the drachma, while good for
foreign tour operators, would destroy Greek tourism.  “Greece has become a very special situation, a very risky
situation it would seem to me,”  Thomas Mayer , Deutsche Bank
AG’s chief economist, told Bloomberg Television on Dec. 9. “The
 Greek economy  isn’t really responding to the treatment, the
Greek political situation is highly uncertain.”  A GPO poll taken this month showed that more than 76
percent of 1,402 people surveyed said Greece must keep the euro
“at all costs.” Eighty-nine percent said they suffered a drop
in income this year and 81 percent said they expect the
situation to worsen in 2012, the poll showed.  Leftist Bloc  Another poll, by Public Issue, backed up the support, with
66 percent saying they had a positive view of the euro.  That survey also showed that  Syriza , which opposes
Papademos’s government and policies such as state asset sales,
had made inroads and the two leftist parties in parliament
against EU and IMF involvement in Greece would make up the
second-largest group.  The second-biggest party,  New Democracy , has given
Papademos three months to secure funds before national elections
are held. Measures include negotiating a debt swap that will cut
100 billion euros off Greece’s burden, without which public
borrowings can’t be considered sustainable, according to an IMF
report published on Dec. 6.  “The emergence of a stronger leftist bloc in the next
parliament could easily result in a more vibrant debate about
euro membership,” said  Wolfango Piccoli , a London-based analyst
at Eurasia Group, which assesses political risks.  In Athens, which accounts for half of the country’s gross
domestic product, the sudden decline in fortunes is glaring.  Monster Economy  In Syntagma, the main shopping precinct, yellow taxis are
lined up two-deep, waiting for fares from Athenians now
reluctant to part with their cash. “No more salvation” is one
graffiti slogan daubed on the wall of a foreign bank.  The bleak economic situation “is a monster,” said
Education Minister Anna Diamantopoulou, a former European
commissioner, in Brussels on Dec. 6. Europe’s policy “has
humiliated people. One has to deliver not only rules but also
hope and solidarity,” she said.  ICAP Plc, the biggest broker of inter-bank transactions, is
preparing for a return of the drachma, the currency last used in
2002, and betting companies such as  Paddy Power Plc (PAP)  in Ireland
are taking wagers that Greece will readopt the old currency.  As political leaders bickered for three days in Athens in
November over who would lead a new government, Zoulas and his
employees held their own poll in their empty restaurant.  The result: six in favor of keeping the euro, two against,
two didn’t know.  “The issue is we’re going to run out of money, whatever
the currency is,” said Zoulas, who calculated that custom at
his restaurant fell 30 percent in the days after Papandreou
announced the referendum. “There’s still no plan. We’re like
junkies waiting for our next hit. We still don’t understand what
we have to do to get out of this hole.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  