-- Drydocks World of Dubai Sees $2.2 Billion Debt Restructuring Deal in March
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2011-12-20T10:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/drydocks-world-of-dubai-sees-2-2-billion-debt-restructuring-deal-in-march.html
Drydocks World LLC, the ship-repair
unit owned by state-controlled Dubai World, may reach a deal on
restructuring $2.2 billion of debt with creditor banks in March,
Chairman Khamis Juma Buamim said.  “We have not asked for a government guarantee” for the
restructuring, under which it’s negotiating with banks for a new
loan, Buamin told reporters at Dubai Maritime City. Drydocks
World will pay back the loans in five to eight years and
continues to pay interest on them at existing terms, he said.  Drydocks World  borrowed $1.7 billion for three years in
August 2008 from a group of banks at 170 basis points, or 1.7
percentage points, over the London interbank offered rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It borrowed another
$500 million for five years at 190 basis points over Libor, the
data shows.  The emirate’s government may not support Drydocks World
with its debt restructuring as that responsibility falls on its
parent Dubai World, Mohammed Al Shaibani, the director general
of Dubai ruler’s court, said Sept. 23. The government in March
2010 provided $1.5 billion in cash to Dubai World and converted
$8.9 billion of loans to equity as part of the $25 billion debt
restructuring.  Profit  Drydocks World’s Dubai unit, the  Middle East ’s largest
shipyard, will post a profit of $116 million in 2011 that may
rise by 15 percent next year, Buamin said. It reduced losses
from its southeast Asian business to 5 percent of revenue in
2011 from more than 20 percent last year and is looking for
joint venture partners for its contracting and manpower
businesses as well as to add capacity, he said.  Drydocks World’s  Dubai unit carries out vessel conversions,
ship building and offshore construction, apart from ship
repairs, mainly of ultra and very large crude carriers. The
company has yards operating in Singapore and  Indonesia , in
Graha, Pertama and Nanindah. It also operates a fleet of 158
vessels, comprising tankers, bulk, cargo vessels, tugs, anchor
handling tugs for charter, according to its website.  Drydocks World is concentrating on the oil and gas
industry, where demand is being driven by an ageing global fleet
and increasing energy needs, Buamin said. The company cut
overall costs by $199 million this year and plans to invest $300
million over the next five years, he said.  Monarch Alternative Capital LP, a New York-based investment
company which filed a claim of about $45.5 million in a London
court against Drydocks World in October, has asked for a summary
judgment in the case, according to Buamin.  Dubai and its state-owned companies, excluding finance
companies, have outstanding debt of $101.5 billion and may need
further financial support to meet these obligations, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report Dec. 6. The emirate, the
 Persian Gulf ’s trade and tourism hub, was on the brink of a
default in 2009 and is recovering after a $20 billion cash
injection from the  United Arab Emirates ’ central bank, the Abu
Dhabi government and its banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  