-- Eagle Ford Fracking Rush May Boost Texas Tax Revenue 15-Fold as Jobs Boom
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2011-12-20T16:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/eagle-ford-drilling-rush-may-boost-texas-tax-revenue-15-fold.html
While the Eagle Ford shale boom in
Texas isn’t the first that Daryl Fowler has seen, the DeWitt
County judge is working to ensure that his community will be
left with new roads and housing when the oil and gas are gone.  Fowler, whose non-judicial post gives him administrative
control over the county 70 miles (112 kilometers) southeast of
San Antonio, has negotiated an $8,000-per-well fee from drilling
companies to pay for roads. The county was able to reduce its
property-tax rate by 18 percent this year while total assessed
value jumped 27 percent as producers, including  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , and  Pioneer Natural Resources Co. (PXD) , sought permits to drill
more than 340 wells.  “It takes 270 loads of gravel just to build a pad used
for drilling a well, which means a lot of truck traffic on a lot
of roads that nobody except Grandpa Schultz and some deer
hunters may have used in the past,” Fowler, 55, said in a
telephone interview.  From  Pennsylvania  to  North Dakota , production of natural
gas locked in shale formations is on a tear. The output will
support 870,000 U.S. jobs and add $118 billion to economic
growth in the next four years, plus $57 billion in federal,
state and local taxes by 2035, according to a Dec. 6 report from
IHS Global Insight, a forecaster based in Englewood,  Colorado .  Regaining Jobs  By early 2012, Texas will become the third state to gain
back all of the jobs lost during the last recession, following
oil and gas-rich North Dakota and Alaska, according to the firm.  Under Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican seeking his party’s
presidential nomination, Texas communities have encouraged the
process known as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. The
technique, used in as much as 90 percent of new gas wells
drilled in the U.S. each year, forces a mixture of water,
chemicals and sand into underground shale formations, breaking
open the rock and freeing the natural gas it contains.  States collected $3.7 billion in taxes tied to extracting
natural resources in the third quarter, a 76 percent increase
from the same period in 2010, the U.S. Census Bureau  reported 
today. Texas’s collections increased 62 percent to $807.6
million,  second  behind  Alaska ’s $1.26 billion, the bureau said.  Surging Development  Shale development is also surging in North Dakota’s Bakken
formation and in the mid-Atlantic’s Marcellus and Utica
deposits. West Virginia passed a law Dec. 14 regulating
fracking, and  New York  is studying drilling rules that suspended
development of similar geologic structures that contain trapped
oil and gas.  New Jersey  lawmakers sought to ban drilling before
Governor  Chris Christie  vetoed the measure.  “There are some places that are totally anti-
development,” David Porter, one of three Texas commissioners
who oversee oil and gas extraction, said Dec. 15 by telephone.
“We are very pro-development.”  “It’s an understatement to say that Texas leaders have
generally positive views toward oil and gas development,” said
Scott Anderson, a senior policy analyst with the nonprofit
Environmental Defense Fund in Austin. Permits for drilling cost
a few hundred dollars in Texas, compared with a few thousand in
 West Virginia  and Pennsylvania, he said.  Fracking’s environmental impact has become a key issue in
local political elections in parts of Texas’ Dallas- Fort Worth 
metropolitan area where wells abut residential neighborhoods,
Anderson said. “There’s been a definite shift in attitude among
elected officials and the industry does face closer scrutiny,”
he said.  Water Leaks  In states including New York, New Jersey and  Delaware ,
opponents say they are concerned that contaminated water can
leak from wells. New York is considering rules to prevent
drilling near aquifer boundaries and water wells, and to force
developers to store waste in tanks to contain contamination from
fracking. Pennsylvania also restricts well locations to keep
them away from water supplies.  Texas  has no such limits.  “Texas has more than 100 years of experience in regulating
oil and gas,” said Ed Ireland, executive director of the
Barnett Shale Energy Education Council, an industry-supported
 group  based in Fort Worth. “In New York you have a whole
regulatory culture that is totally unfamiliar with oil and gas.
They aren’t welcoming because they don’t understand it.”  Fracking Regulation  States now regulate fracking, although the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency is reviewing the effects of the
process and may issue rules on waste handling in 2014. Among
concerns are leakage of the slurry from wells into water
supplies and disposing of tainted fluids. An EPA investigation
found evidence of fracking chemicals in an aquifer in  Wyoming ,
the agency said Dec. 8.  “I don’t understand the current administration -- they
just seem to be throwing anything out there to try to hinder”
domestic energy production from  Washington , said Porter, a
member of the industry-regulating  Texas Railroad Commission .  Energy development in the Eagle Ford is expected to produce
a windfall for government coffers. Tax revenue tied to the
formation may reach $1.65 billion a year by 2020, up from $108.5
million this year, according to a  University of Texas  at  San
Antonio  study commissioned by America’s Natural Gas Alliance, a
Washington-based group supported by 30 oil and gas companies.  Oil and gas development has brought as many as 15,000
workers into the mostly rural Eagle Ford area, with another
40,000 expected to arrive by 2022, said Bob Zacariah, an Austin
developer. He is building a 70-unit hotel in Cotulla, in La
Salle County southwest of San Antonio.  Scarce Housing  Most Eagle Ford wells are located in rural areas well away
from cities, so housing is scarce, said Jenny Savage, president
of Remote Logistics International, which has built two lodges
for a combined 600 workers in Carrizo Springs, in Dimmit County,
and Three Rivers, in Live Oak County.  In Carrizo Springs, southwest of San Antonio near the
Mexican border, “there’s nowhere to rent right now, so if you
are coming here, you better be ready to live in your car,” said
Estanislado Martinez, the county treasurer.  Dimmit County’s  sales-tax receipts have grown eight-fold
over the past four years and it issued $4.6 million in debt to
renovate municipal buildings, Auditor Carlos Pereda said.
“We’re seeing a lot more activity, so we need improvements.”  In DeWitt County, the donations Fowler negotiated from
drilling companies should add up to $1.8 million during this
fiscal year, he said. With a population of about 20,000,
including 1,300 prison inmates, the county was the Eagle Ford
region’s second-biggest oil producer and third-largest for gas
through August, according to industry newsletter Powell Shale
Digest. The shale formation crosses under 24 counties from east
Texas to  Mexico .  ‘Booms and Busts’  “Some of these towns have gone through booms and busts
before, and it’s extremely challenging when you have an invasion
like this,” said Zacariah, the Austin developer. “It would be
nice to see money used for roads, water pipes, sewers, trash
services and schools, rather than just building nice offices for
the city and county folks.”  The Eagle Ford formation was identified in 2008, when about
130,000 barrels of oil were extracted. Through August, the
region has produced 38.2 million barrels of oil, according to
the Powell newsletter.  “I’m hearing that this is likely sustainable for at least
20 or 30 years,” said Thomas Tunstall, director of the Center
for Community and Business Research at the University of Texas
at San Antonio.  Mineral Wealth  The Eagle Ford formation is the latest source of mineral
wealth for Texas, which will collect $4.8 billion from taxes on
oil and natural gas production in the 24 months through August
2013, according to Comptroller Susan Combs. That makes up 6.7
percent of tax collections in a state that doesn’t have
personal-income levies.  Public schools are benefiting from increasing property
values, and the revenue that generates, while enrolling
relatively few new students as most oil and gas workers are men
who are single or have families living elsewhere, Porter said.  Perry called environmental worries over fracking a “fear
tactic that the left is using” during a Dec. 18 campaign stop
in Decorah,  Iowa . DeWitt County’s Fowler shares that worry.  “We don’t need any of that down here,” he said, referring
to concerns that fracking could endanger some rare species.
“This could become more of a political issue because for some
people it’s name your bug. We fear that could unravel this thing
overnight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 