-- ECB Becomes Lender of Last Resort for Europe, Tzitzouris Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2011-12-20T16:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/ecb-becomes-lender-of-last-resort-for-europe-tzitzouris-says-tom-keene.html
The  European Central Bank  is
becoming the lender and borrower of last resort for the European
banking system and will be forced to expand debt purchases to
combat deflation, according to Tom Tzitzouris of Strategas
Research Partners.  “Banks would rather lend to the ECB than lend to each
other, and would rather borrow from the ECB at a higher rate and
then lend it right back to the ECB,” Tzitzouris, vice president
and head of the fixed-income department at Strategas in  New
York , said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.  “This is a flight to quality in its most perverse sense
and the consequences of it in itself are probably
destabilizing,” he said. “I can’t really imagine this is going
to last long-term.”  The ECB began its new longer-term refinancing operation
today, offering unlimited three-year loans to the region’s banks
in an effort to boost demand for higher-yielding assets. Results
will be announced tomorrow. The ECB introduced the program on
Dec. 8, loosening collateral rules for loans along with cutting
its benchmark rate.  Italian two-year note yields fell for a fourth day,
touching a seven-week low, on speculation banks bought the
nation’s debt to use as collateral at the ECB’s long-term
refinancing operation.  Spain  sold more than its maximum target
of bills today as borrowing costs fell.  Greece  issued 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) of 91-day securities.  Risks Remain  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday that substantial
risks to the economy remain and the law forbids him from
increasing government-bond purchases to fight the crisis.  “The ECB at this stage isn’t going to say ‘we’re going to
engage in some type of quantitative easing,’” or purchases of
debt securities with the aim of keeping long-term rates low,
Tzitzouris said. “What they are doing is doing everything they
can to encourage banks to go out there and begin to expand
credit, and it’s not working particularly well.”  The ECB will have to commit to quantitative easing “or
something similar,” Tzitzouris said, due to the deflationary
risks in the economy triggered in part by fiscal austerity.  German business confidence unexpectedly rose for a second
month. The gauge of  business confidence , based on a survey of
7,000 executives, rose to 107.2 from 106.6 in November, the
Munich-based Ifo institute said today. The  median economist
forecast  called for a drop to 106.  Stress in  Europe ’s financial system, coupled with slower
growth, prompted  Standard & Poor’s  on Dec. 5 to say Germany and
 France  may be stripped of their AAA credit ratings as it put 15
euro nations on review for possible downgrade. Fitch Ratings
lowered its outlook on France to “negative” on Dec. 16 and put
Spain and  Italy  on review for a downgrade, citing Europe’s
failure to find a “comprehensive solution” to the debt crisis.  European Recession  Economists at Barclays Plc said a European recession has
already begun. The euro area’s gross domestic product will
contract 1.4 percent this quarter, 0.6 percent in the first
three months of 2012 and stagnate in the second quarter before
resuming growing in the third, Barclays said in a Dec. 8 report.  “The goal of recapitalization is completely counter to the
goal of levering up and arbitraging a steep yield curve, a carry
curve, in European sovereigns,” which some banks may now be
doing, said Tzitzouris. “The ECB is almost in original
territory because you’ve never really had a situation where the
 Federal Reserve  is encouraging banks to put on a long term carry
trade on very highly credit sensitive instruments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  