-- Banks May Flock to ‘Free Money’ as ECB Awards 3-Year Loans
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2011-12-21T08:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/ecb-invites-euro-area-banks-to-place-orders-for-three-year-cash.html
The  European Central Bank  is set to
flood euro-area banks with cheap cash as they flock to its offer
of three-year loans today.  Banks will ask the ECB for 293 billion euros ($384 billion)
of the 1,134-day funds, according to the median of 14 forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Estimates range from
150 billion euros to as much as 600 billion euros. The money
will be lent at the average of the ECB’s  benchmark rate  --
currently 1 percent -- over the period of the loan. Results are
due at 11:15 a.m. in  Frankfurt  and the loans start tomorrow.  “This is basically free money,” said Jens-Oliver Niklasch, a strategist at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in
Stuttgart. “The conditions are unbeatable. Everybody who can
will try to get a piece of this cake.”  Europe ’s debt crisis has increased the risk of government
and bank defaults, making institutions wary of lending to each
other and driving up the cost of credit. The ECB is trying to
ensure that banks have access to cheap cash for the medium term
so that they can keep lending to companies and households. In
addition to the longer-term loans, the ECB has widened the pool
of collateral banks can use to secure the funds.  The euro rose for a second day amid speculation the ECB’s
loans will spur demand for sovereign bonds. The 17-nation
currency gained 0.3 percent to $1.3123 at 9 a.m. in Frankfurt.  ‘Significant’ Demand  Yields on Italian and Spanish government bonds have dropped
since the ECB announced the loans on Dec. 8 as banks buy the
securities to use them as collateral. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has suggested banks could use the loans to buy even more
government debt.  The ECB’s intention is that banks utilize the funds to
refinance themselves, Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said in a
Dec. 19 interview. He predicted “significant” demand as banks
face “very high refinancing needs early next year.”  Some 230 billion euros of bank bonds mature in the first
quarter of 2012 alone, ECB President  Mario Draghi  told the
European Parliament this week.  “Banks represent about 80 percent of lending to the euro
area,” Draghi said. “The banking channel is crucial to the
supply of credit.” He predicted banks will experience “very
significant funding constraints” for the “whole” of 2012.  Capital Requirements  Banks from the euro region need to refinance 35 percent
more debt next year than they did this year, according to a  Bank
of England  study. Lenders have more than 600 billion euros of
debt maturing next year, around three quarters of which is
unsecured, the study says.  “The good news is that banks won’t have to worry about
liquidity for three years,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist
at ING Group in Brussels. “However, it remains to be seen
whether the money will filter through to the real economy as the
ECB hopes. Many banks still have to increase their  capital
ratios  to meet the Basel III criteria by mid-2012.”  Regulators are forcing European banks to increase buffers
so they can cope with future crises. The European Banking
Authority earlier this month ordered the region’s financial
firms to raise 114.7 billion euros of additional capital to
bolster their core Tier 1 ratios to more than 9 percent of risk-
weighted assets by the middle of 2012.  Faced with a potential credit crunch, the regulator told
banks to raise the money from investors, retained earnings and
lower bonuses. Failing that, companies may sell assets, provided
the disposals don’t limit overall lending to the “real”
economy, the EBA said in a Dec. 8 statement.  ‘Lender of Last Resort’  The ECB is focusing on greasing the banking system to fight
the debt crisis as it resists calls to increase its  bond
purchases  to reduce governments’ borrowing costs. It will also
award 98-day loans today and offer a second three-year loan in
February. Banks have the option of repaying them after a year.  With the loans, the ECB is showing it “is the lender of
last resort for banks, not for sovereigns,” said  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  economist  Silvio Peruzzo .  “This will stabilize the banking sector and is another
building block in the ECB’s policy to prevent a much dreaded
credit squeeze,” said Jan Holthusen, head of fixed-income
research at  DZ Bank  in Frankfurt. “But it’s just one building
block and by itself not decisive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  