-- ECB Loans to ‘Ease Liquidity’ at Banks, Banka Slovenije Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2011-12-20T17:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/ecb-loans-to-ease-liquidity-at-banks-banka-slovenije-says.html
Slovenian banks, including Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d., the country’s largest, are relying on
loans from the  European Central Bank  to ease liquidity as the
stability of the lending industry worsens.  “Three-year long-term loans from the ECB will ease the
 liquidity risk ,” the country’s central bank, known as  Banka
Slovenije , said in an e-mailed statement today. “The stability
of the banking system has worsened in the first nine months of
the year on increased credit and refinancing risk.”  The ECB invited euro-area banks to place orders for its
first tranche of unlimited three-year loans, an attempt to keep
credit flowing to the 17-nation economy during the sovereign
debt crisis. The ECB has also widened the pool of collateral
banks can use to secure the funds. Loan bids must be submitted
by 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.  Banks in Slovenia, which joined the euro in 2007, are still
reeling from the 2009 recession and their cash reserves may be
further pressured as the export-dependent economy slides into
another slump. Bad-loan provisions at banks in the former
Yugoslav nation surged 40 percent in the first 10 months from a
year earlier to 706 million euros, the central bank said Dec. 7.  Nova Ljubljanska and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. (KBMR) , the
two largest banks that are majority-owned by the government,
will probably report full-year losses for 2011 on mounting loan-
loss reserves. NLB said in October it had put 264 million euros
($346 million) aside to cover asset writedowns and bad loans,
while Nova Kreditna posted a 4.4 million-euro loss in the nine-
month period, its first since a 2007 initial public offering.  The worsening outlook for Slovenian banks is “of
particular concern,”, Christopher Pryce of  Fitch Ratings  said
in a Dec. 8 interview. The ratings company has estimated banks
in Slovenia need as much as 3 billion euros of fresh capital.  NLB is seeking to raise 400 million euros to improve its
capital ratio by mid-2012. The European Banking Authority
estimated on Dec. 9 that the lender needs 320 million euros, up
from a previous estimate of 297 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  