-- Hedge-Fund Refuge Sought by Traders as Banks Cut 233,000 Jobs: Commodities
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 2011-12-20T20:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/hedge-fund-refuge-sought-by-traders-amid-bank-cuts-commodities.html
Damien Bombell left  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  a year ago after the largest and most profitable U.S. bank
shut its group trading commodities for the company’s own
account. Now chief investment officer of his own hedge fund,
he’s hiring four people before accepting money from investors
next month.  “I can’t say there’s anything I miss about banking,” said
Bombell, who turned 40 last week and plans to have at least $200
million under management at the Strand Global Macro Fund in Zug,
Switzerland. “I have more freedom.”  Traders in energy, metals and agriculture are opening or
joining hedge funds after leaving financial firms that cut more
than 233,000 jobs this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Departures of commodity traders from banks probably rose 10
percent this year, according to Commodity Search Partners Ltd.,
a Brighton, England-based recruiter. Pay for that group will
drop 24 percent on average, estimates Options Group, a New York-
based recruitment firm.  Financial firms are losing people as U.S. and European
regulators seek to limit holdings across raw materials and ban
so-called proprietary trading that uses shareholders’ cash.
Slowing economic growth and  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis may
crimp earnings and limit compensation for traders.  “Banks are particularly vulnerable at the moment to losing
people,” said Peter Henry, New York-based head of front-office
search at Commodity Search Partners, which recruits about 40
commodity traders each year. “Increasing regulations are
forcing banks to defer more pay in stock as opposed to cash as
well as constraining the traders’ ability to trade.”  Industry Average  Commodity  hedge funds  attracted $8.66 billion from
investors in the year through November, up 11 percent from the
end of 2010 and above the hedge-fund industry average of 1.9
percent, according to New York-based eVestment|HFN. Assets under
management at commodity funds after their performance rose $4.95
billion to $82.7 billion through November, the research company
estimates. The funds lost 3.4 percent on average in the period,
according to the Newedge Commodity Trading Index.  George “Beau” Taylor, the 41-year-old former head of
global commodity proprietary trading at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
started a hedge fund in February. It now has more than $1
billion of assets, a person with direct knowledge of the matter
said. Gil Saiz, the 36-year-old who spent a decade at New York-
based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , closed his Vector Commodity Fund
to money from new investors in May after raising $600 million,
two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Duet Commodities  The Duet Commodities Fund co-managed by Tony Hall, the 31-
year-old former head of distillates trading at a venture between
Credit Suisse and Barr, Switzerland-based Glencore International
AG, said in a letter to investors in November that it returned
 27.5 percent  in the first 10 months.  Starting a new commodity hedge fund is getting tougher
because managers need to comply with more demands from
investors, said Marcus Storr, head of hedge funds at Feri Trust
GmbH in  Bad Homburg ,  Germany .  “You need more money to launch, you need more professional
backup,” said Storr, whose company manages about 16 billion
euros ($20.8 billion) of assets, including investments in 12
commodity hedge funds. “These are all elements which hadn’t
been much cared about before the crisis, and are now so
important. That’s why many who want to set up hedge funds these
days, they can’t launch.”  A new fund probably needs to raise about $100 million from
investors to generate the income needed to pay for expenses such
as offices and trading systems, said David Mooney, the chief
investment officer of Schroders NewFinance Capital in  London ,
who has been involved in commodities for more than two decades.  Barclays Capital   Departing bankers include Todd Edgar and his team of four
commodity traders who left Barclays Capital in London in the
third quarter and are setting up a fund in  New York , two people
with knowledge of the preparations said earlier this month.  Tim Jones, 47 and formerly of JPMorgan and Edinburgh-based
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , started a metals hedge fund in
July at RK Capital Management LLP, the London-based adviser to
the Red Kite group of funds said in an e-mail in May.  Kieran McKenna resigned from Zurich-based Credit Suisse as
global head of oil and refined products at the end of July and
started the Mastic Commodity Fund last month in Zug, his new
company said in an e-mail.  Bank of America  “It’s very clear that it’s possible to operate in a much
more efficient manner to take advantage of significant
opportunities that are becoming increasingly difficult to
exploit in more complex corporate structures,” said McKenna,
37. “Regulation is necessary, yet it isn’t often designed or
applied in a consistent manner.”  Bank regulations govern  investment risk , borrowing levels,
and how much money is invested in each asset class, said  Peter Douglas , the founder of Singapore-based GFIA Pte, which advises
investors wanting to allocate money to hedge funds.  “Those are going to be regulated in black and white within
the banks, increasingly constrained by external regulators and
shareholders,” he said. “In a hedge fund, those parameters are
purely determined by the manager.”  JPMorgan and Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  shut proprietary trading before the implementation
next year of the rule named for former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker  that will limit such practices. JPMorgan told its
traders about the closing in August last year, according to a
person briefed on the matter. Bank of America said Nov. 3 it had
closed its proprietary trading in stocks, bonds, currencies and
commodities as of June 30.  Nicolas Sarkozy   The Commodity Futures Trading Commission voted three to two
on Oct. 18 to curb trading in 28 commodity futures including oil
and gold. The Basel III rules, which come fully into effect in
2019, force banks to hold more capital against businesses deemed
to be riskier, such as proprietary trading.  European regulators are seeking limits on commodities
derivatives trading after French President Nicolas Sarkozy
demanded steps to curb speculation, which he blames for driving
up world food prices.  “Expect commodities risk at banks to decrease
significantly toward levels that are justified by market making
or client facilitation business,” said Diego Parrilla, the
former head of the Asian commodity team at Bank of America who
is now raising money for his hedge fund in  Singapore . “The days
of betting the bank’s capital on, say, a cold snap in the U.S.
seem harder to justify.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
has  risen 0.5 percent  this year. Stocks as measured by the MSCI
All-Country Index have slumped 11 percent in the same period,
while U.S. Treasuries have advanced 10 percent, according to a
Bank of America index.  Investment Banks  The world’s biggest investment banks have more staff
turnover in commodities than in fixed-income and currencies,
according to Coalition. The London-based research company based
its analysis on company announcements, its own research, news
articles and information from people in the industry  Sales at the 10 largest investment banks’ commodity units
rose almost 16 percent to a combined $5.49 billion in the first
nine months from a year earlier, Coalition said. That compares
with a 12 percent contraction across their businesses combined.  “You’ve got one institution that is limping along, you get
one part of that institution that has made reasonable returns,”
said Justin Pearson, the managing director and co-founder of
Human Capital, a London-based firm which recruits about 100
commodity traders a year. “They aren’t going to be able to pay
those staff in the profitable department anywhere as much as
they would have done” in a  bull market  year, he said.  Bonuses at some banks are now paid out as 75 percent in
stock deferred over three years, while traders outside those
companies can get all of it in cash, Pearson said.  Search Partners  Commodity traders at banks who meet their targets and have
been there for five years may earn $500,000 to $2 million this
year through cash and shares, Commodity Search Partners’ Henry
estimates. There won’t be “a huge difference” in pay from last
year, he said.  While the biggest investment banks have more staff turnover
in commodities than in fixed-income and currencies, the rate of
job cuts in raw materials is smaller, said Coalition.  Companies trading physical commodities such as Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Freepoint Commodities LLC and  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) 
of  Hong Kong , are also attracting traders leaving banks.  “The top proprietary traders at the best bank desks have
many competing opportunities, perhaps the strongest of which are
the physical trading houses that are building derivatives
businesses,” said  John Thompson , a partner at Energy Alpha
Strategies Ltd., an investment firm that helps set up and
finance commodity hedge funds. “The amount of traders hoping to
launch is increasing, and will accelerate in 2012.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  