-- Egyptian Women Throng Cairo Rallies as Killings Trigger Worldwide Outrage
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2011-12-21T09:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/egypt-security-forces-clash-with-protesters-for-fifth-day-amid-criticism.html
Thousands of Egyptian women joined
protests on the streets of central Cairo following international
condemnation of violence between security forces and
demonstrators that left at least 14 dead.  Crowds rallied in and around  Tahrir Square  late yesterday
after images were shown of soldiers stripping and beating a
female demonstrator during the clashes that began Dec. 16.
Videos and  photographs  posted online and broadcast on private
television stations showed troops dragging other demonstrators,
hitting them with batons and stomping on them. A total of 850
people were injured, state television reported yesterday.
Protesters said many of those killed had been shot.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and United Nations
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon both condemned the violence, which
occurred as troops and police tried on several occasions to
disperse protesters demanding an immediate end to army rule. In
a statement addressed to the nation’s women late yesterday, the
ruling military council expressed “deep regret” for “the
transgressions that have taken place during recent events.”  The council, which took power from  Hosni Mubarak  in
February, says it won’t relinquish its authority until there is
a new parliament, president and constitution. Lack of clarity
over the transition has helped stall the economy’s recovery and
sent government borrowing costs to a record high.  “I don’t see a political solution for the crisis right
now,” said Hani Sabra, an analyst on Egypt for the New York-
based Eurasia Group. “In the short term, we’ll be seeing a lot
of tit-for-tat action.”  Parliamentary Vote  Smaller groups of protesters gathered this morning in
Tahrir, and there were no clashes overnight for the first time
since Dec. 16. “They didn’t attack last night after yesterday’s
protest, so we didn’t attack either,” said protester Hossam
Eddin Mohamed, a 35-year-old plumber.  Egypt  is in the middle of parliamentary elections in which
the Muslim Brotherhood’s affiliate, the Freedom and Justice
party, took an early lead, followed by the Nour party, a
conservative religious grouping. Run-offs for the second round
are being held today and tomorrow. A third and final round of
voting begins in early January, while presidential elections are
scheduled to be held by the end of June.  Some Egyptians argue that the election of a representative
parliament should diminish the role of street protests.  ‘It’s Unacceptable’  “The elections are going well,” said Nelly Mohamed, a 50-
year-old teacher, outside a polling station in Giza, a Cairo
suburb. “There will always be some people unhappy with the
results, that’s why we’re seeing the events in Tahrir.”  Others say that the brutal treatment of demonstrators is
overshadowing the vote. “A lot of people aren’t paying
attention anymore to the elections with the violence taking
place in Tahrir,” said 64-year-old doctor Nadia Nashed Atalla
after casting her ballot in Giza. “It’s doesn’t matter what
they’re demanding, they’re people and they’re dying; it’s
unacceptable.”  Turnout in the initial voting of the second phase was 67
percent, according to Abdel Moez Ibrahim, the head of the
electoral commission.  The country’s military ruler, Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, held talks yesterday with a civilian advisory body to
discuss the unrest, “reiterating that all forms of violence
must end immediately,” the state-run Middle East  News Agency 
reported. The council said the date for presidential elections
will be upheld, Mena said, effectively rejecting calls by
activists to hand over power to civilians immediately.  U.S. Concern  “The military council wants to ensure that any new
political player in Egypt does not threaten their privileged
position,” said Sabra. “Any state where the military plays
such a broad role, as it has in Egypt over the past 60 years, it
will be impossible to define that as a democracy.”  Clinton said she was “deeply concerned about the
continuing reports of violence in Egypt,” according to an e-
mailed statement. Female protesters “being attacked, stripped
and beaten in the streets” by security forces “disgraces the
state and its uniform,” she said Dec. 19 at  Georgetown
University  in  Washington .  The U.S. gives $1.3  billion  to Egypt in annual military
aid.  Yields on Egypt’s dollar bonds maturing in 2020 were
trading at 8.03 percent at 11:15 a.m. local time today, close to
yesterday’s record close of 8.04 percent. The benchmark  EGX 30
Index (EGX30)  rallied 0.8 percent, paring its loss this week to 4.7
percent. The government missed its fundraising target at a
domestic debt auction on Dec. 19, selling 3.5 billion pounds
($581 million) out of the 5 billion pounds it had sought.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  