-- Egypt’s Attacks on Women Protesters a ‘Disgrace,’ Clinton Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2011-12-20T05:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/egypt-s-attacks-on-women-protesters-a-disgrace-clinton-says.html
Egyptian women protesters “are
being attacked, stripped and beaten in the streets” by security
forces, a “disgrace” that dishonors the country, U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday.  The top U.S. diplomat said Egypt’s leaders, in the military
and in its political parties, are excluding women from decision-
making as the country makes its transition to civilian-led rule.  Photographs  and video footage of protests yesterday showed
soldiers beating and kicking a young woman in  Tahrir Square ,
pulling her full-length veil up over her head to reveal her blue
bra and bare stomach, a humiliation in a culture that prizes
female modesty.  “Recent events in Egypt have been particularly shocking,”
Clinton said in a speech at  Georgetown University  in Washington
on the role of women in conflict prevention. “Women are being
beaten and humiliated in the same streets where they risked
their lives for the revolution only a few short months ago.”  “This systematic degradation of Egyptian women dishonors
the revolution, disgraces the state and its uniform and is not
worthy of a great people,” she said.  The clashes between troops and protesters who want  Egypt ’s
generals to hand power to civilians immediately began Dec. 16.
They have left 12 dead and hundreds injured. The protesters, who
have been camped outside the cabinet building for the last three
weeks, also demand that trials of former officials accused of
killing protesters be expedited.  Keeping Control  The military has said it won’t relinquish control until a
presidential election is held by the end of June and there is a
new constitution.  Clinton said marchers celebrating International Women’s Day
were harassed and abused and journalists have been sexually
assaulted.  On a political level, “Egyptian women have been largely
shut out of decision-making in the transition by both the
military authorities and the major political parties,” Clinton
said. “At the same time, they have been specifically targeted
both by security forces and by extremists.”  “As some Egyptian politicians and commentators have
themselves noted, a new democracy cannot be built on the
persecution of women, nor can any stable society,” Clinton
said.  The images of soldiers beating civilians and women, now
widely circulated on YouTube, “should be first and foremost
distressing to Egyptians,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  