-- Egyptian Stocks Retreat to Lowest in a Month on Deadly Clashes
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2011-12-20T13:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/egyptian-stocks-retreat-to-lowest-in-a-month-on-deadly-clashes.html
Egyptian stocks dropped to the
lowest in a month after security forces and protesters clashed
for a fifth day in central Cairo and the government removed
subsidies on energy-intensive industries.  Commercial International Bank (COMI) , the biggest publicly traded
bank in Egypt, retreated to the lowest since May 2009 and
Orascom Construction Industries lost 1.8 percent. The  EGX 30
Index (EGX30)  dropped 2.5 percent to 3,706.3, the lowest since Nov. 22,
at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo as 28 stocks fell and two were
unchanged. The measure has tumbled 48 percent this year, making
it the third-worst performer globally after Cyprus and Greece.  Soldiers and police stormed  Tahrir Square  injuring dozens,
according to demonstrators who pointed to bloodstains on their
clothes and the tarmac. Hisham Sheeha, a health ministry
official, said 28 people were injured today and 12 have died
since Dec. 16. The clashes are the latest between protesters
demanding an immediate end to military rule and the generals who
took interim power after the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak .  “Ongoing violence, the lack of a catalyst and the lifting
of subsidies on energy intensive industries” is weighing on
stocks, said Ashraf Akhnoukh, senior equity sales trader at
Cairo-based Commercial International Brokerage.  Egypt will lift subsidies on energy-intensive industries,
Planning and International Co-operation Minister Fayza Aboulnaga
said yesterday, without giving a time frame.  Commercial International Bank declined 4.2 percent to 19.85
Egyptian pounds.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) , the largest
publicly traded builder in the country, fell to 202.61 pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  