-- Pimco’s El-Erian Sees Risk Europe May Spark a Lehman-Like Financial Crisis
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2011-12-20T21:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/el-erian-europe-may-spark-lehman-like-crisis.html
The head of the world’s biggest bond
fund said he sees a more than 1 in 3 chance that the  euro zone 
will break apart and trigger a financial crisis akin to the one
that devastated the global economy in 2008.  “It would be the equivalent of a sudden stop” in which
financial markets seized up, Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer of Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,
 California , said. “It would be really, really messy.”  The global economy suffered its worst recession since World
War II after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008 triggered steep falls in global stock markets.
Gross domestic product in the U.S., the world’s largest economy,
shrank by 5.1 percent.  El-Erian said in a Bloomberg interview that the crisis in
 Europe  is no longer just about what will happen to periphery
nations like  Greece . “It is now a crisis for the euro zone as a
whole,” he said.  He said the most likely outcome -- with a 1 in 2 chance --
is that European policy makers “get their act together” and
manage the transition to a smaller currency union. The least
likely is that the 17-nation euro zone stays intact: the
possibility of that occurring is just 15 percent, he said.  Europe bolstered its anti-crisis arsenal this week,
channeling 150 billion euros ($196 billion) to the  International
Monetary Fund  as the  European Central Bank  widened its support
for sagging bond markets.  Italian Bonds  Bonds of  Italy  and Spain rallied on expectations that the
ECB’s unprecedented backing for banks will lead lenders to buy
more government debt. Italian two-year note yields dropped 20
basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, to 4.94 percent at 3:47
p.m. London time, after reaching 4.91 percent, the least since
Oct. 31.  Spain ’s two-year note yields slid three basis points to
3.34 percent.  El-Erian said that policy makers in Europe are still behind
the curve in their efforts to contain the turmoil in the
financial markets.  “The contamination has been allowed to travel from the
outer core all the way in and threaten the inner core,” he
said.  The premium that  France  must pay over Germany to borrow for
10 years has “gotten to levels that were once deemed
unthinkable,” he said. That spread today stood at 113 basis
points, up from 40 basis points at the end of last year though
down from a high of more than 200 points earlier this quarter.  Credit Ratings  Credit ratings of many European nations are also under
review, El-Erian said.  Standard & Poor’s  said on Dec. 5 that
 Germany  and France may be stripped of their AAA credit ratings
as the region’s crisis prompted the New York firm to put 15 euro
nations on review for possible downgrade.  El-Erian singled out nine countries that might remain in
the currency union if policy makers decide to downsize it --
Austria,  Belgium , Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg,
the Netherlands and Spain.  “The critical issue is whether Italy and Spain will be
included,” he said.  Pimco expects Europe’s economy to shrink by 1 percent to 2
percent in the coming year, with the risks to that forecast
skewed to the downside, El-Erian added.  He voiced skepticism that the recent acceleration in U.S.
growth will prove sustainable and forecast that the world’s
largest economy will expand little, if at all, over the next
year. He said the recent growth spurt had been fueled by a drop
in savings that he doesn’t expect to last.  “Currently projections are for 3 to 3.5 percent” economic
growth in the fourth quarter, El-Erian said. “It wouldn’t
surprise me if we end up below that.”  The economy expanded at an annualized rate of 2 percent in
the third quarter, according to the Commerce Department in
 Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  