-- Merkel Goes on Vacation as Euro-Area Debt Crisis, Domestic Turmoil Fester
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2011-12-20T14:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/merkel-goes-on-vacation-as-euro-area-debt-crisis-domestic-turmoil-fester.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  presided
over her final Cabinet meeting of 2011 before she takes a winter
break, leaving behind the simmering debt crisis and a political
ally whose job as German president is on the line.  Merkel discussed minimum wages, changes to a stocks law and
a bill on energy-efficiency labeling with ministers in Berlin
today, her last publicly scheduled meeting before she goes on
vacation tomorrow. Her spokesman declined to say where she is
going, saying only that her next official appearance is not
until Jan. 5.  As she takes time out, the German leader leaves the threat
of a credit-rating downgrade hanging over  Europe ’s biggest
economy and the wider euro area, as rating companies join
investors in questioning the impact of Merkel’s Dec. 9 European
summit push for closer fiscal ties to combat the crisis. The
euro fell to an 11-month low against the dollar on Dec. 14.  “They haven’t solved the crisis,”  Christian Schulz , an
economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co in  London , said by
phone. “If the whole thing blows up, it’s going to cost Merkel
a lot. Her future rests on the future of the euro.”  German efforts to reach out to Britain after Prime Minister
 David Cameron  was the only leader to refuse to join Merkel’s
“fiscal compact” were rebuffed yesterday, as the U.K. snubbed
European efforts to bolster its crisis-fighting capacity via the
 International Monetary Fund . While four countries not using the
single currency pledged to join the 17 euro nations in adding to
the IMF’s resources, Britain refused to commit.  Domestic Buffeting  Merkel, who last winter went cross-country skiing in the
Swiss Alps, is also being buffeted domestically as her candidate
elected to the German presidency,  Christian Wulff , fights daily
allegations in the German media amid growing scrutiny of a
private home loan and vacations at the homes of business people.
Her Free Democratic coalition partner is limping into Christmas
after a clash between the party leadership and bailout skeptics
over support for the permanent rescue fund.  Merkel still has “full confidence” in the president,
Steffen Seibert, her chief spokesman, said in Berlin today,
repeating comments by Merkel yesterday. Questions about his
conduct “will be cleared up” by Wulff, Seibert said. “It’s
right to do everything to clear up possible questions.”  The chancellor is due to sign a book of condolence for
former Czech President Vaclav Havel at the Czech embassy in
Berlin today, Seibert said, in her final public appointment for
more than two weeks.  Merkel, who heads the biggest country contributor to euro-
area bailouts, can perhaps afford a pause even though markets
“can reverse very quickly,” said Schulz.  “The governments have done what they could, pretty much,
but there are significant risks,” including of a sovereign
downgrade, Schulz said. For Merkel, “even though her government
is certainly not strong, she has so far managed to get by.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  