-- EU Carbon Surges as Parliament Backs Proposal to Withhold Permits
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2011-12-20T15:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/eu-parliament-committee-backs-proposal-to-withhold-co2-permits.html
European Union carbon prices jumped
after the EU Parliament environment committee backed a draft
rule requiring the bloc’s executive to propose a temporary cut
in permit supply in the next phase of its carbon market.  Carbon allowances rose as much as 32 percent on speculation
that an amendment to an energy efficiency law voted today raised
the likelihood of the EU curbing oversupply and supporting prices
in its emissions trading system. Concern that the new energy-
savings regulations will further cut demand for pollution rights
at a time of economic slowdown helped knock carbon prices to a
four-year low last week.  Analysts at Bloomberg New Energy Finance predict that the
EU market will be oversupplied by 997 million metric tons, or
9.6 percent, from  2008 to 2012. This surplus may be transferred
into the second phase from 2013 to 2020, in which New Energy
Finance predicts a net shortfall of 749 million tons. Rising
carbon prices will add to energy costs.  “This price jump is probably a slight over-reaction from a
market starved of bullish news, as this committee vote is not as
material as the jump would suggest,” said Konrad Hanschmidt, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London .  EU permits for December 2012 delivery rose to as high as
9.75 euros and were at 9.05 euros as of 1:40 p.m. on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London. The region’s emissions
trading system, known as the ETS, is the world’s largest and was
valued at $120 billion last year.  ‘Significant Amount’  The Parliament’s committee supported a change to the
energy-savings directive that calls on the European Commission
by the end of next year to propose fixes to its emissions
auctioning regulation in order to “withhold a significant
amount of allowances.”  The committee’s suggestion would have to be backed by a
majority of deputies in the parliament as well as member states
to become a law. A subsequent proposal by the commission to set
aside permits would require consent from national governments in
a separate regulatory process.  “The compromise amendment was adopted almost
unanimously,” Peter Liese, a deputy from the European  People’s
Party  in the parliament, told a news conference in Brussels
today. “We approved a careful intervention in the ETS.”  Under the same amendment, the committee voted to add in a
non-binding part of the directive a clause that would require
the commission to set the number of permits to be withheld at
such a level that wouldn’t push carbon prices above 30 euros.  ‘Change in Policy’  “It’s an amendment of change in the current policy,”
Liese said. “If you decide that a price is too low, you’ve also
got to decide when a price is too high.”  The commission first came up in 2010 with the idea of
setting aside allowances in the next phase of the emissions
program starting in 2013 and also included a reference to such a
tool in a March 2011 policy paper, known as the low-carbon 2050
road map.  It has suggested that a set-aside could be gradually
created from the pool of permits to be sold to companies by
countries starting in 2013. This would require amending the
auctioning regulation by the so-called comitology procedure,
under which a measure requires backing from representatives of
member states in the  Climate Change  Committee and then is
subject to a three-month scrutiny period by the parliament and
national governments.  Revision of Directive  Any move to permanently cancel permits after 2020 would
require a revision of the directive, which requires approval by
the European Parliament and the council of ministers.  Member states remain divided on whether to raise the
stringency of the EU’s climate policies. While western European
countries have voiced support for tighter pollution caps on
companies, eastern nations have in previous years tended to
favor a more cautious approach.  The emissions trading system is the cornerstone of the EU
policy to cut  greenhouse gases  blamed for climate change. It
imposes pollution limits on more than 11,000 utilities and
manufacturers, leading to a cap in 2020 that will be 21 percent
less than 2005 discharges.  Another amendment, setting the number of permits to be set
aside at 1.4 billion metric tons, passed by “a very narrow
margin” and will “definitely not survive” in the committee on
industry, which also discusses the directive, and in the
plenary, Liese said.  ‘Serious Obstacles’  In a separate vote, the deputies backed a change in the so-
called linear reduction factor, by which the cap on polluters in
the EU emission trading system decreases annually. The factor
should be raised to 2.25 percent as of 2014 from the current
1.74 percent, according to the amendment.  “While today is good news, there are still some very
serious obstacles to be crossed and the exact level of the set-
aside and any change to the cap still needs to be clarified,”
 Trevor Sikorski , an analyst at  Barclays Capital , said in a
research note. “We would caution against over optimism, but
this does feel like a seasonal treat from the EU to those in the
carbon market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 