-- EU Leaders to Hold Jan. 30 Summit to Discuss Jobs, Growth, Van Rompuy Says
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2011-12-20T23:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/eu-to-hold-summit-on-jan-30-on-growth-and-jobs-van-rompuy-says.html
European Union leaders will hold a
summit on Jan. 30 to discuss jobs and economic growth, EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy  said.  “I’m preparing this meeting intensively,” Van Rompuy said
in a  video message  posted on the EU’s website today. “It will
be focused on jobs, and that’s a big challenge in a context
where  zero growth  is expected in most of our economies. In some
of them there will even be a recession.”  Euro-area governments this week pledged to channel 150
billion euros ($196.2 billion) to the  International Monetary
Fund  as the  European Central Bank  bolstered its support for
sagging sovereign bond markets. British wariness of the IMF
program undermined the euro region’s goal of drawing an
additional 50 billion euros from the rest of the EU.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  warned yesterday
the euro area needs “special attention” to stop contagion from
its sovereign-debt crisis sweeping through the global economy.  “Without action, the world economy could be swept into a
downward spiral of collapsing confidence, weaker growth and
fewer jobs,” Lagarde said in a speech in Lagos, Nigeria.  In announcing the EU summit, Van Rompuy said “strong
action on employment” is needed to ensure economic growth.  “Bringing financial stability to the euro zone remains
absolutely key for our future,” he said, adding that EU leaders
“have taken major decisions this year to overcome the
sovereign-debt crisis.”  Behind the Curve  EU policy makers are still behind the curve in their
efforts to contain the turmoil in financial markets, according
to Mohamed El-Erian, head of the world’s biggest bond fund.  “The contamination has been allowed to travel from the
outer core all the way in and threaten the inner core,” El-
Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment Management
Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California , said in a Bloomberg interview.
“It is now a crisis for the euro zone as a whole.” He sees a 
more than 1 in 3 chance that the euro area will break apart and 
trigger a financial crisis akin to the one that devastated the
global economy in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Prague at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  