-- Euro Zone Needs ‘Special Attention,’ IMF’s Lagarde Says
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2011-12-20T15:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/euro-zone-needs-special-attention-imf-s-lagarde-says-1-.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said the euro zone needs “special
attention” to prevent the contagion from its debt crisis
sweeping through the global economy.  “These are challenging times for the global economy. The
dark clouds of risk are gathering, and  Nigeria  and others in
Africa will need to watch them carefully,” Lagarde said today
in a speech in Lagos. “While these problems might seem a world
away, without action, the world economy could be swept into a
downward spiral of collapsing confidence, weaker growth, and
fewer jobs.”  No country is immune to these risks “in today’s
interconnected global economy,” said Lagarde, who is in Nigeria
for the second day on her first African tour since taking the
helm at the IMF in July. She is also scheduled to visit Niger,
Nigeria’s northern neighbor, tomorrow and go to  South Africa  in
January.  European leaders seeking to tame a sovereign debt and
banking crisis pledged yesterday  to channel 150 billion euros
($195 billion) to the IMF as the  European Central Bank  widened
its support for sagging bond markets. Four countries, including
Denmark, which don’t use the single currency, also pledged
contributions.  The IMF is poised to help its African members deal with the
fallout by increasing concessional lending and applying more
flexibility “with greater protections for social spending,”
Lagarde said.  Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer, needs to cut its  budget
deficit , reduce inflation and build up its reserves of foreign
currencies, to improve its ability to withstand shocks to the
global economy, the IMF managing director said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  