-- Europe’s Rescue Fund May Lose Top Debt Rating as France’s Grade at Risk
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2011-12-20T12:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/europe-s-rescue-fund-may-lose-top-debt-rating-as-france-s-grade-at-risk.html
The euro area’s rescue fund may lose
its top credit status were  France ’s AAA grade to be cut,  Fitch
Ratings  said, highlighting how the region has been too slow in
stemming the two-year-old debt crisis.  Five days after lowering France’s credit outlook, Fitch
said the  European Financial Stability Facility ’s AAA rating is
linked to France’s grade. France is one of six AAA nations
backing the EFSF, whose top rating limits the cost of selling
debt to finance emergency loans for distressed euro governments.  “The revision of the rating outlook on France to negative
last Friday implies that the risk of a downgrade of EFSF debt
has increased,” Fitch said in a statement today in  London .
“The primary source of ratings risk for EFSF debt issues is the
possibility that one or more of its largest AAA guarantors is
downgraded.”  The threat to France underscores the weaknesses in the
institutions set up by the euro area to prevent Spain and  Italy 
from being engulfed by the debt troubles that forced Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts. Moody’s Investors Service
said Dec. 12 it’s reviewing all euro governments for a possible
downgrade, following a Dec. 5 warning by  Standard & Poor’s 
involving 15 of the region’s 17 governments.  The euro area has upgraded the EFSF by raising its lending
capacity to 440 billion euros ($575 billion) from an initial
level of about 250 billion euros and by allowing the facility to
buy sovereign bonds on the primary and secondary markets, offer
credit lines to governments and recapitalize banks in addition
to selling debt to finance rescue loans.  Fund Bolstered  In October, when that process was completed and concerns
grew that even 440 billion euros wouldn’t suffice, euro leaders
rejected an increase in the overall guarantees for the EFSF and
opted instead to try to bolster its firepower further to 1
trillion euros through leveraging. In November, the region’s
finance ministers said the leveraging efforts would fall short.  The Luxembourg-based EFSF this month began selling short-
term debt to meet its expanded role in tackling the debt crisis.
Under a funding program that will focus on three-, six- and 12-
month bills, the facility on Dec. 13 issued 1.97 billion euros
of 91-day securities at an average yield of 0.2222 percent.  The EFSF’s finances are tied to national guarantees
totaling almost twice the headline figure. Currently, the
region’s governments offer guarantees totaling 726 billion euros
and apply an over-guarantee of 165 percent, resulting in a
lending capacity of 440 billion euros.  The sum of guarantees excludes those of  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal, which don’t contribute as aid recipients. France’s
guarantees amount to 158.5 billion euros, second to  Germany ’s
211 billion euros. The guarantees from the euro area’s six AAA
countries total about 451 billion euros.  “Although the EFSF could potentially remedy a downgrade of
a small AAA guarantor by increasing the size of its cash reserve
or through additional credit enhancements, this would be far
more challenging if a larger guarantor like France or Germany
were downgraded,” Fitch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  