-- Euro Falls as ECB Loans Fail to Ease View
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2011-12-21T22:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/euro-near-one-week-high-versus-dollar-before-ecb-loan-results.html
The euro fell against most of its
major peers amid concern that  European Central Bank  measures to
support its banking sector won’t be enough to arrest region’s
worsening sovereign-debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency erased an earlier advance as the ECB
said it had awarded 489 billion euros ($637 billion) in 1,134-
day loans to banks, more than the 293 billion euros forecast by
economists, as investors bet the euro-region debt crisis is far
from done. The euro-area economy will probably fail to grow next
year after expanding 1.6 percent in 2011, while the U.S. is
forecast to accelerate to 2.1 percent from 1.8 percent,
according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  “It doesn’t take away the problem of the sovereign-debt
financing and the amount of sovereign debt being held by banks
becoming a concern for other counterparties,” said  David Mann ,
regional head of research for the Americas at  Standard Chartered 
in New York. “What we saw was a good result, but it wasn’t
enough to draw a line under the crisis.”  The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.3047 at 5:05 p.m. in New
York, after climbing as much as 0.9 percent after the ECB
announcement.  Europe ’s shared currency declined 0.1 percent to
101.85 yen. The dollar added 0.2 percent to 78.06 yen.  Annual View  The euro has depreciated 1.3 percent this year against nine
developed-nation counterparts, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has advanced 3.8
percent and the dollar has gained 1.1 percent.  South Africa ’s rand has declined 19.4 percent against the
dollar in 2011, the most of the U.S. currency’s most-traded
peers, followed by  Mexico ’s peso with a 10.7 percent loss. The
yen has advanced 3.9 percent for the largest gain against the
greenback, while the pound is up 0.4 percent.  Switzerland’d franc fell against the euro and the dollar
after Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said a panel is
considering measures, including capital controls and negative
 interest rates , to weaken the nation’s currency.  The franc weakened 0.2 percent to 1.2211 per euro and 0.4
percent to 93.58 centimes per dollar.  Italy’s two-year yields advanced 11 basis points to 4.98
percent, after falling to 4.74 percent, the least since Oct. 31.
They pared an increase of as much as 31 basis points since ECB
President  Mario Draghi  announced the unprecedented loans on Dec.
8 as investors bet that banks will use the cash to buy
government debt.  Euro Issues  “We’re starting to see more headwinds start up for the
euro,” said Brian Kim, a currency strategist in Stamford,
 Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “Whether it’s
been the latest summit hasn’t worked, whether it’s been the
growth picture in Europe versus the U.S., people are finally
noticing that it’s lagging.”  John Taylor , founder of currency-hedge fund FX Concepts
LLC, said the European Central Bank three-year loans to euro-
area banks is a form of quantitative easing and the euro is
destined to slide next year.  “This is QE in another form,” referring to the monetary
policy the  Federal Reserve  used in undertaking of purchasing
debt to keep long-term rates low, Taylor said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track” with  Erik Schatzker .
“Three-year money at a low price -- you can give it back after
a year - it’s a giveaway. What scares me is what the hell are
they going to do with it? They’ll buy Spanish and Italian
debt.”  Cash Estimate  Barclays Plc estimated today’s operation will inject 193
billion euros of new money into the system, with 296 billion
euros accounted for by maturing loans. The ECB also lent banks
$33 billion for 14 days in a regular dollar offering, up from
$5.1 billion a week ago, and 29.7 billion euros for 98 days.  “Much like the warnings of catastrophe are seldom
fulfilled, so too the promises of resolution,” said Noel Hebert, a credit strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc. in  New York . “In the end, you risk more euros in the
system and you don’t solve the solvency issue.”  South Korea ’s won fell as concern eased about political
upheaval following the death of North Korea’s leader  Kim Jong
Il , which was reported Dec. 19, and as U.S. housing data boosted
the outlook for the Asian nation’s exporters. The won gained 1.1
percent to 1,149.25 per dollar.  The number of existing homes sold in the U.S. was revised
down by an average 14 percent since 2007, magnifying the depth
of the slump that contributed to the last recession. Purchases
were revised to 4.19 million for 2010, down 15 percent from a
prior estimate of 4.91 million, the National Association of
Realtors said today in  Washington .  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, a gauge of
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, rose 0.2 percent to 79.984.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  