-- NFL Sued by Retired Players for Brain-Injury Monitoring
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2011-12-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/ex-nfl-players-sue-league-seeking-medical-monitoring-of-brain-injuries.html
The  National Football League  was
sued by three retired players seeking to establish a medical
monitoring program for brain injuries on behalf of all former
players in the league.  Harry Jacobs, 74, Jerome Barkum, 61, and Tommy Mason, 72,
said in a complaint filed in Manhattan federal court yesterday
that they suffer from brain injuries as a result of repeated
blows to the head during their playing days. Jacobs’s and
Mason’s wives are also named as plaintiffs.  The retired players, who seek to represent all former NFL
players in the U.S., asked the court for a declaration that the
league knew or should have known that repeated head impacts and
concussions put the players at risk of developing degenerative
brain diseases later in life.  The players are seeking medical monitoring and unspecified
personal-injury damages. Suits making similar claims were filed
earlier this year in federal court in Philadelphia and state
court in  Los Angeles .  “The NFL has long made player safety a priority and
continues to do so,”  Greg Aiello , a spokesman for the league,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Any allegation that the NFL
intentionally sought to mislead players has no merit.”  Jacobs played linebacker-defensive end for 11 seasons with
the Boston Patriots, Buffalo Bills and New Orleans Saints,
according to Pro-Football-Reference.com.  Mason played 11 years with the  Minnesota Vikings , Los
Angeles Rams and Washington Redskins. A kick-returner and
running back, Mason played in three Pro Bowls and was an All-Pro
pick in 1963, according to Pro-Football-Reference.  Barkum, a first-round draft choice of the New York Jets in
1972, played his entire 12-year career with the team as a wide
receiver and tight end, according to Pro-Football-Reference. He
made the  Pro Bowl  in 1973.  The case is Jacobs v. National Football League, 11-CV-9345,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweiclich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  