-- Ex-NFL Star Willie Gault Sued by SEC
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2011-12-20T22:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/ex-nfl-star-gault-sued-by-sec-in-stock-pumping-fraud.html
Willie Gault, the former NFL wide
receiver and Olympic sprinter, was accused by U.S. regulators of
taking part in a scheme to artificially inflate the stock of a
medical-device company that he helped manage.  Studio City, California-based  Heart Tronics (HRTT)  repeatedly
announced millions of dollars in fake sales orders for its
heart-monitoring devices between 2006 and 2008, the Securities
and Exchange Commission said in a  complaint  filed today at U.S.
District Court in  California . The SEC also sued Gault’s co-chief
executive officer J. Rowland Perkins, attorney Mitchell Stein,
and Stein’s handyman and chauffeur Martin B. Carter.  Gault, 51, was installed as Heart Tronics’ president and
co-CEO in October 2008 to generate publicity for the company and
foster investor confidence, the SEC said. Stein, who controlled
most of the company’s business activities, hired promoters to
tout Heart Tronics stock on the Internet. The defendants reaped
nearly $8 million by trading the stock, according to the
complaint.  “Stein took advantage of Gault’s celebrity to further prop
up the image of Heart Tronics as a successful enterprise,”
Stephen L. Cohen, an associate director in the SEC’s enforcement
division, said in a statement. “Stein secretly sold millions of
dollars in stock while peddling false claims of Heart Tronics’
lucrative sales orders, and has been living the high life off
his illicit proceeds with multiple homes, exotic cars, and
private jets.”  Jared Scharf, an attorney who represents Gault, Perkins and
Heart Tronics, said his clients denied accounts of falsified
sales. “The company intends to defend the lawsuit vigorously,”
Scharf said.  Six Individuals  The SEC sued a total of six individuals, and Stein was
named by the  Justice Department  in a parallel criminal case, the
SEC said. A phone call to Stein’s  Woodland Hills , California,
 law firm  wasn’t immediately returned. A phone number listed to
Martin B. Carter in Clewiston, Florida, was disconnected.  Gault and Perkins -- a founder of Creative Artists Agency
LLC, one of the largest U.S. talent agencies -- rarely
questioned Stein’s actions and didn’t fulfill fiduciary
responsibilities as corporate officers, the SEC said. Stein and
Gault together defrauded one investor into making a substantial
investment in Heart Tronics, only to divert the person’s funds
into Gault’s personal brokerage account, according to the
complaint.  Wide Receiver  After playing football at the University of Tennessee,
 Gault  went on to play 11 seasons as a wide receiver in the
 National Football League  for the  Chicago Bears , where he was a
member of the 1985 Super Bowl championship team, and for the Los
Angeles Raiders.  Gault was also a member of the U.S. Olympic team which
boycotted the 1980  Summer Olympics  in Moscow, and later trained
with the U.S. Olympic  bobsled  team.  Gault founded a not-for-profit, Athletes for Life, through
which he “toured the country giving free heart scans” with
Heart Tronics technology, Scharf said. The organization’s online
membership list includes athletes  John Elway ,  Marshall Faulk ,
Earvin “Magic” Johnson,  Carl Lewis , Jackie Joyner-Kersee,
Jerry Rice and dozens of others.  Earlier this year, Gault was named USA Track & Field’s
 Athlete of the Week  after he set world records in the 50-to-54
age group for the 100-meter and 200-meter dashes, clocking times
of 10.88 seconds and 22.44 seconds, respectively.  Japan  Day Trip  Stein and Carter fabricated several documents to support
false disclosures to the public, the SEC said. In one instance,
Carter made a one-day round-trip journey to Japan, at Stein’s
direction, to mail back a letter from a fictitious customer in
order to deceive management, disclosure counsel and auditors,
according to the SEC. They also arranged to ship products to one
of Carter’s friends to create the illusion that the company was
delivering a heart-monitoring device to an actual customer, the
SEC said.  The SEC is seeking to permanently bar Gault, Stein and
Perkins from serving as corporate officers, as well as the
return of ill-gotten profits and unspecified financial
penalties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  