-- Ex-Tullett Prebon Broker Cites ‘Toxic’ Office Atmosphere in Bonus Lawsuit
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2011-12-20T11:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/ex-tullett-prebon-broker-cites-toxic-office-atmosphere-in-bonus-lawsuit.html
Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR) ’s former head of
oil options trading said he was forced to leave the inter-dealer
broker because of the behavior of an “erratic” colleague who
made up trades and created a “toxic atmosphere.”  Managers failed to deal with the conduct of a trader who
became “increasingly erratic, unreliable, irrational and
disruptive,” Daniel Sibson said in court filing in  London  last
month in response to a Tullett Prebon lawsuit.  Tullett Prebon sued Sibson for lost profits and the return
of his bonus in October, saying he quit the London options desk
to work at Vantage Capital Markets LLP without working through a
12-month notice period. Sibson is countersuing for 150,000
pounds ($235,000) for constructive dismissal.  Lawsuits following staff moves are common in the broker-
dealer industry. Tullett Prebon in April settled a dispute with
BGC Partners Inc. over the defection of 10 traders to the New
York-based firm.  Tullett Prebon estimated in an October court filing that it
lost out on a total of 861,400 pounds in earnings because Sibson
didn’t work during the notice period after resigning in March
2011. It also wants Sibson to repay bonuses worth 25,680 pounds
which were subject to “continued loyalty.”  Medication  Sibson said in his counterclaim that he had to take
medication because his manager did nothing to address the
trader’s behavior.  Sibson declined to comment when reached on the phone, and
his lawyers at Parker & Co. Solicitors didn’t respond to an e-
mail requesting comment.  “Tullett Prebon will be refuting the allegations made by
Mr. Sibson in his defense, and we are currently in the process
of preparing our reply,” Charlotte Kirkham, an outside
spokeswoman for London-based Tullett Prebon, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The trader invented a transaction with JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and when Sibson confronted him, said he had “made it up” and
it was “a bit mad, wasn’t it?” Sibson’s lawyers said.  The trader accused Sibson of “suppressing” his bonus and
undermined morale by praising competitors and saying Tullett
Prebon had “lost it,” according to Sibson’s court filing.  The trader “created a toxic atmosphere to the detriment of
the effective operation of the desk,” Sibson’s lawyers said in
the filing.  The case is: Tullett Prebon Group Limited v. Daniel Sibson,
HQ11D03794,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  