-- Ex-UBS Trader Gets Until Jan. 30 to Give Plea on U.K. Trading-Loss Charges
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l ,   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2011-12-20T16:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/ex-ubs-trader-kweku-adoboli-given-another-month-to-offer-plea.html
Kweku Adoboli, a former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
trader, was given more time to enter a plea to charges he caused
a $2.3 billion loss for his firm, the second delay he has
received.  Adoboli, who changed lawyers and is receiving government
assistance to pay for them, needs more time to get appropriate
legal advice, one of his lawyers said at a hearing in London
today. Adoboli would have pleaded not guilty if the court
refused his delay request, his attorney  Paul Garlick  said.  The 31-year-old must enter a plea at the next hearing,
scheduled for Jan. 30, Judge  Alistair McCreath  said. Adoboli was
previously granted a monthlong delay in November and prosecutors
said he shouldn’t receive another one today because the case is
“straightforward.”  “You, and those who assist you, must understand the court
will not accept any further applications” for delay, McCreath
said, warning Adoboli that credit towards a reduced sentence
for pleading guilty early was “evaporating even as we speak.”  Adoboli has been in custody since Sept. 15 when UBS asked
 London  police to arrest him. The case has led to the departures
of Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  and the co-heads of
the Swiss bank’s global equities business. UBS has also said it
suspended some front office staff pending further disciplinary
action.  “I’ve satisfied myself that Adoboli hasn’t received
satisfactory legal advice,” Garlick said. Tim Harris, another
of Adoboli’s lawyers, declined to comment after the hearing.  Cooperation  Robert Davies, a prosecutor, said so far in the case
Adoboli had “always cooperated.”  Adoboli said in September he was “sorry beyond words” for
“his disastrous miscalculations.”  UBS declined to comment today because the criminal case is
continuing.  Adoboli dismissed the lawyers at Kingsley Napley who had
been advising him since his arrest, a spokeswoman for the  law
firm  said last week. He hired London-based Bark & Co. to replace
them.  At the November hearing, his prior legal team said they
needed more time to gain “a better understanding of exactly
what it was that preceded the calamitous losses.”  Adoboli, who holds a Ghanaian passport, is charged with
fraud and false accounting dating back to 2008. Prosecutors have
said he falsified records on exchange-traded-fund transactions.
UBS said the loss came from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500,
DAX and EuroStoxx index futures. The trades’ risk was masked by
fictitious positions, according to the bank.  The U.K.’s  Financial Services Authority  and the Swiss
Financial Market Supervisory Authority are jointly investigating
whether control failures at the bank allowed the trades to go
undetected.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net . 