-- Rangers Win Right to Negotiate With Japanese Pitcher Yu Darvish
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2011-12-20T07:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/texas-rangers-win-negotiating-rights-to-japanese-pitcher-darvish.html
The  Texas Rangers  have 30 days to
reach a contract agreement with Yu Darvish after winning
negotiating rights for the Japanese pitcher.  While the Rangers and  Major League Baseball  didn’t disclose
the amount of the winning bid to the Hokkaido Nippon Ham
Fighters, Yahoo Sports  said  it was a record $51.7 million,
without saying where it got the information. The highest
previous negotiating fee for a Japanese player was the $51.1
million the  Boston   Red Sox  bid in 2007 for Daisuke Matsuzaka.  “It’s obviously a very exciting night for our
organization, our fans, our community,” Rangers General Manager
Jon Daniels said in a conference call with reporters last night.
“It’s just the first step in the process, but it’s an important
one. We hope that it will end by signing Darvish.”  Darvish, 25, has gone 93-38 with a 1.99 earned run average
in seven seasons with Nippon Ham, which accepted the bid under
the Japanese posting system by which players can move to the
U.S. and Major League Baseball.  The Rangers, who were beaten in the  World Series  the past
two seasons, lost their top starting pitcher, C.J. Wilson, as a
free agent to the  Los Angeles Angels  earlier this month.  Daniels refused to say how much the Rangers bid for the 6-
foot-5 (2-meter) right-handed Darvish. The Hokkaido team and MLB
also didn’t give details of the bid in e-mailed releases.  If the Rangers can’t negotiate a contract with Darvish,
he’ll rejoin the Fighters and the posting fee will be returned.  Darvish, who had a 1.44 ERA last season while leading
Japan’s Pacific League by striking out 276 batters in 232
innings, has a fastball that usually reaches around 95 mph (153
kph), according to Ben Badler, an analyst for Baseball America
who studies scouting and player development.  Several Good Pitches  “He has better stuff and projects better going forward
than any pitcher who is a free agent this year,” Badler said in
a telephone interview on Dec. 14. “He can reach back and get to
96-97 when he needs it, he’s got a plus slider and good off-
speed stuff, really all the ingredients you look for in a top-
of-the-rotation pitcher.”  The Rangers said in an e-mailed release that they look
forward to beginning negotiations with Darvish’s agents, Arn Tellem and Don Nomura.  “The Rangers are an extraordinary franchise in an
exceptional city with equally exceptional fans,” Tellem said in
a statement. “Yu is honored to be prized so highly and
recognized as a once-in-a-generation pitcher.”  Darvish didn’t play enough seasons in  Japan  to become a
free agent and sign with the U.S. team of his choice. Instead,
he went through a blind-bidding process that has yielded mixed
results for pitchers.  Matsuzaka and Igawa  The Red Sox and  New York Yankees  both signed Japanese
pitchers through the posting system in 2007. After paying a
record amount for the rights to Matsuzaka, Boston gave him a $52
million contract over six years. The Yankees spent $26 million
to be able to negotiate with Kei Igawa, signing him to a $20
million, five-year deal.  Matsuzaka went 15-12 with a 4.40 ERA his first season in
Boston as the Red Sox won a World Series title. He followed that
with an 18-3 campaign and a 2.90 ERA. He’s struggled since and
is recovering from June elbow surgery.  Igawa lasted two seasons with the Yankees, going 5-9 with a
6.66 ERA.  Daniels watched Darvish pitch while making a trip to Japan
this season, and the Rangers had scouted him for several years.
 Texas  won the American League championship the past two seasons
before losing in the World Series to the  San Francisco Giants  in
2010 and the  St. Louis Cardinals  this year.  “Our commitment from ownership is to put the best possible
team out there,” Daniels said. “We’ve had success the past
couple of years and haven’t been able to close it out, and
that’s our goal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 