-- Facebook’s ‘Cool Space’ Campus Points to Future of Office Growth
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2011-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/facebook-s-cool-space-campus-points-to-future-of-office-growth.html
Workers roam with laptops, meet on
sofas and scribble on walls at Facebook Inc.’s new Silicon
Valley headquarters, where rusted steel beams, exposed heating
ducts and plywood-covered corridors are part of the decor.  The office campus in  Menlo Park , California, was renovated
for $250 million in a “hacker” style intended to express the
culture of the world’s largest social-networking company.  “We wanted to keep honest, industrial materials and give
the place its own eclectic look,” said Everett Katigbak, the
Facebook designer overseeing the facility, as he showed off the
first of 10 structures to be occupied at the 1 million-square-
foot (93,000-square-meter) complex. About 2,000 workers
relocated from the company’s former base, in nearby  Palo Alto ,
yesterday.  Properties that can be rebuilt for Internet firms are in
demand as the technology sector fuels office leasing in
“gateway” U.S. cities, said Tyler Rose, chief financial
officer for  Kilroy Realty Corp. (KRC)  The Los Angeles-based real
estate investment trust along with closely held Shorenstein
Properties LLC and TMG Partners, both based in  San Francisco ,
are among the companies capitalizing on the trend.  “Creative space” is outperforming other property types,
said  Dan Fasulo , managing director of Real Capital Analytics
Inc., citing a Moody’s Investors Service index of prime
buildings in six major cities with tech sectors. The measure
gained almost 33 percent from its low two years ago, more than
double the 15 percent advance for the broader commercial
property index.  Values ‘Skyrocket’  “They’ve seen their value skyrocket,” Fasulo said of the
properties tracked in  Boston ,  Chicago ,  Los Angeles ,  New York ,
San Francisco and  Washington . “A new generation of corporate
leaders is looking at space-planning as a core part of business
to increase productivity and keep people in the office. The old
guard looked at it as an expense.”  New York’s Midtown South, Boston’s Back Bay and  Seattle ’s
South Lake Union are among the markets with “great tenant
demand,” said Alan Billingsley, head of Americas research for
Deutsche Bank AG’s RREEF property fund.  Most companies are “behind the curve” and don’t
efficiently use their offices, with tech firms leading the way
on transforming the use of stairways, corridors, nooks and
kitchens as places where workers can meet on the fly, said
Georgia Collins,  North America  managing director of DEGW, part
of  Aecom Technology Corp. (ACM) , which consults on architecture and
engineering projects.  “Now that we have mobile devices, we’re freed from the
desk, which means we need more formal and informal spaces where
we develop relationships and have conversations,” she said.  Few Interior Walls  Nondescript buildings can acquire new luster if they’re
laid out horizontally with tall ceilings and few interior walls,
to maximize uninterrupted floor space, Rose said.  Markets with growing tech and energy sectors, led by San
Francisco and Silicon Valley, accounted for 45 percent of U.S.
office occupancy growth this year through Sept. 30, according to
commercial brokerage  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  Denver and Austin,
 Texas , also are “rising” markets, while the overall national
office outlook is “stagnant,” the firm said Oct. 4.  Some of technology’s biggest companies are moving into
nontraditional properties.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s New York base is a
block-square warehouse on Eighth Avenue in Midtown South,
purchased by the company last year for $1.8 billion.  Twitter Inc., the messaging service with more than 100
million users, will move in the middle of next year to a
furniture mart dating to the 1930s in San Francisco. The two-
building property, acquired in March by Shorenstein, will be
transformed into a “rich, urban  campus ,” according to the
developer’s website.  ‘Funky Space’  Online gaming company  Zynga Inc. , which raised $1 billion
in an initial public offering last week, this year took more
than half of a former wholesale fashion mart in San Francisco
that was acquired and renovated by TMG.  Age and exterior appearance are less important than
interiors that can be reconfigured as “funky space that young
people want,” said John Guinee, an analyst who follows real
estate investment trusts for Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.
The return on cost for such projects is about 8 percent,
compared with 7 percent for traditional  office space , he said.  “It’s office with a twist, but fully office,” said
Billingsley of RREEF, which bought the Facebook campus on behalf
of the State of Wisconsin Investment Board in February. The
seller of the 57-acre (23-hectare) complex, completed in 1995 as
the home of Sun Microsystems, was  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , which acquired
Sun last year.  On the Inside  “Real estate developers think tenants want architecturally
significant space on the outside, but they really want cool
space on the inside, access to public transportation and open-
space planning,” Guinee said. Open areas, rather than cubicles,
encourage “cross-pollination” favored by tech, media and
“knowledge-based” firms, said Chris Caton, a REIT analyst at
Morgan Stanley in San Francisco.  Such properties also have their risks. High-flying tech
companies can be perilous for landlords if their growth slows or
they fail altogether, with single-tenant properties especially
vulnerable to tech’s boom-and-bust cycles, Billingsley said. In
Silicon Valley, building owners are always assessing the credit
quality of startups, said Gregory Davies, a vice president at
brokerage  Cassidy Turley  in San Jose,  California .  “Startups and early-stage companies have a strong desire
for creative-type space, but they pose the greatest risk because
they’re not making money yet,” he said.  South of Market  In San Francisco’s South of Market district, Kilroy has
bought six buildings with a total of 2.1 million square feet
since April 2010, said Rose, the company’s finance chief. Five
of the properties are 97 percent leased on average, and the
sixth is two-thirds empty, an advantage because “we can get the
leasing upside,” he said.  Average office rents in the area, known as SOMA, climbed 25
percent to $41.88 a square foot in the third quarter from a year
earlier, the biggest annual jump in 11 years, according to Jones
Lang LaSalle. Rates rose 4.2 percent to $54.20 in New York, 2.6
percent to $26.75 in Austin, and 1.1 percent to $28.49 in
Boston.  Kilroy returned 9.6 percent with dividends in the 12 months
through Dec. 19, compared with a 6.1 percent gain for the
Bloomberg REIT Index. Three buildings it purchased in San
Francisco and one acquired in Seattle were completed with the
intention of raising rents after renovating, Rose said.  Time at Work  “Cool spaces” will spread to U.S. cities outside major
Internet hubs as tech-savvy workers across industries spend more
time at work and conduct their lives from hand-held devices,
said Peter Rummell, a developer in Jacksonville,  Florida , and
chairman of the  Urban Land Institute , a Washington-based trade
group for investors, developers and planners.  At Facebook’s new campus, the office buildings are arranged
along a narrow interior courtyard with a jumble of storefronts
featuring food, medical, cleaning and other services for
employees, all of them free, said Slater Tow, a company
spokesman.  The complex has internal atriums to increase natural light,
rows of white benches topped by 24-inch (61-centimeter) monitors
and items brought in by employees, including a tiki bar, Charlie
Sheen poster and Sarah Palin bobble-head.  The lively atmosphere may be needed because the campus,
considered state of the art when occupied by Sun, sits in
relative isolation between an expressway and San Francisco Bay
salt ponds. Some people used to call it “Sun Quentin,” after
the California state prison at San Quentin, about 50 miles (80
kilometers) north, said Davies of Cassidy Turley.  “It was way out there on the water, a big old thing that
nobody was using,” he said.  That was then, this is now. As of yesterday, Facebook hopes
its sprawling tech hub on Willow Road will be “cool space”
again. It’s been rechristened 10 Hacker Way.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  