-- Failed T-Mobile USA Deal May Push German M&A to 8-Year Low
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2011-12-21T17:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/failed-deutsche-telekom-deal-may-push-german-m-a-to-8-year-low.html
German dealmaking this year may go
down as one of the worst in the past decade after regulatory
opposition killed Deutsche Telekom AG’s sale of  T-Mobile USA  and
threatened  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s takeover of NYSE Euronext.  Announced acquisitions involving German companies in 2011
slumped to $96 billion after  AT&T Inc. (T)  this week abandoned its
$39 billion purchase of T-Mobile, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Should  Deutsche Boerse ’s bid for NYSE falter, the
total will decline to about $86 billion, the lowest level since
2003 and the second-lowest in the past 10 years, the data show.  Concerns about a breakup of the euro and recession in the
17-nation currency region have also made German companies leery
of spending on deals, overshadowing their near-record cash piles
and their faster-growing economy, M&A bankers say. Transactions
of less than $500 million accounted for 97 percent of German
deals this year, according to the data.  “German executives have adopted an extreme attitude of
cautiousness because of the sovereign debt crisis and uncertain
economic outlook,” said Alexander Gehrt, head of German M&A at
 UBS AG. (UBSN)  “Quite a number of companies are also making organic
investments and lastly, German companies had already been very
active in the years 2005 to 2007.”  While the German economy is  Europe ’s largest and gross
domestic product growth outpaced the U.K. and  France  this year,
those regions produced more deals. The U.K. remains the largest
market, with $317 billion of announced M&A, while France had
$164 billion, the data show.  Credit Suisse Dominates  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  of Zurich advised on the most deals
in Germany, with about 34 percent, beating out JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Citigroup
Inc., according to Bloomberg data. Goldman Sachs’s ranking
benefited from the defeat of the T-Mobile USA deal, as the bank
was the only one of the five without an advisory role.  AT&T and  Deutsche Telekom (DTE)  abandoned the transaction after
U.S. regulators said the combination would hurt competition,
scrapping what would have been the biggest takeover of 2011. The
collapse means Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom will get a $3 billion
fee in cash, wireless spectrum and a more favorable network-
sharing agreement, according to the terms.  Regulatory Concern  Deutsche Boerse’s planned $9.5 billion takeover of  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , which would create the largest exchange, also has
attracted antitrust scrutiny. On Dec. 13, the companies offered
further concessions to European regulators to soothe worries
about their dominance in the European single-equity derivatives
market. The deadline for the European Commission to rule on the
merger was extended until Feb. 9.  “If you take out those two deals, 2011 ends up pretty
bad,” said UBS’s Gehrt. “We haven’t seen much of the bread-
and-butter deals of $500 million to $1.5 billion this year.”  The financial services, automotive, mechanical and
industrial sectors have accounted for the most deals involving
German companies this year, the data show.  M&A advisers are betting on Germany’s ability to dodge a
possible euro-zone recession and policymaker response to the
debt crisis to boost activity next year. German business
confidence unexpectedly rose for a second month in December, the
Ifo institute’s  business climate index  showed on Dec. 20, and
the IfW and RWI economic institutes both released predictions
showing economic growth in 2012.  “Historically the number of M&A deals is rising when you
have rising equity markets,” said  Markus Wallner , a senior
equity strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . Germany’s  HDAX
Index (HDAX) , which tracks the 110 most highly capitalized stocks, fell
0.9 percent in Frankfurt today and has dropped 16 percent this
year.  Cash Hoards  Cash-rich companies such as Munich-based  Siemens AG ,
Europe’s biggest engineering company, have signaled they will
seek acquisitions to boost growth. SAP AG, the largest maker of
business-management software agreed on Dec. 3 to buy
SuccessFactors Inc. for $3.4 billion in cash to keep pace with
rival Oracle Corp. in cloud computing.  More than 100 of Germany’s largest listed companies had
cash or near cash items of 160 billion euros ($209 billion) this
year, the second-highest level in the past decade, the data
show. Volkswagen AG, Deutsche Bank and Siemens hold the most.  Siemens’s Plans  “Companies have cash, but it’s very risky to go into an
economic downturn with a very high debt ratio,” Commerzbank’s
Wallner said. “Companies want to keep liquidity because in case
of a credit crunch, they would not get money from the banks.”  Siemens Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  said Nov. 10
that while rivals have spurred sales growth with acquisitions,
Siemens is waiting for the right time and price. The company
aims to boost sales to 100 billion euros in the medium term.  “Siemens may potentially be interested in bolt-on
acquisitions in the areas of smart grids, energy management and
monitoring software, and inverters for the automotive
industry,” said Sjoerd Ummels, an analyst at ING Groep NV in
Brussels. Philipp Encz, a spokesman for Siemens, declined to
comment.  The European Central Bank today lent euro-area banks a
record amount, 489 billion euros, for three years. The move is
the bank’s latest attempt to ensure lenders have access to cheap
cash so they can provide financing to companies and households,
helping to shore up economic growth.  “CEO confidence is the most important factor and will have
to improve if we want to see more transactions in 2012,” said
Ken Oliver Fritz, head of the investment banking unit for
 Germany  and  Austria  at Credit Suisse. “Once the wait and see
mode has changed, we might see some positive surprises.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  