-- Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Sued by California Attorney General
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2011-12-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-sued-by-california-attorney-general.html
Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac were
accused in a lawsuit by California Attorney General Kamala Harris of hindering her probe into mortgage lending and
foreclosure practices.  Harris wants to know if drug dealing and prostitution occur
in foreclosed homes owned by the companies, whether taxes are
being paid on those houses, and whether military families have
been illegally evicted by loan servicers, according to the two
lawsuits filed yesterday in state court in San Francisco.  Fannie Mae, the government-sponsored enterprise which
issues almost half of all mortgage-backed securities, and
Freddie Mac, the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance
company, haven’t responded to those and other questions Harris
sent Nov. 15, according to the complaints.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  are “frustrating the Attorney
General’s efforts to investigate and combat crime, blight and
other threats to the health and safety of Californians,”
according to the complaints.  768,000 Mortgages  From January 2007 through June of this year, more than
768,000 mortgages have been foreclosed in California, with
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae together owning more than 60 percent
of mortgages in the state, according to the complaints.  California has withdrawn from settlement negotiations in
which state attorneys general across the U.S. have been trying
to reach an agreement with JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Ally Financial Inc .
The states seek to resolve their probe into foreclosure
practices of the five biggest mortgage servicers.  The investigation, which had involved  attorneys general 
from all 50 states, began more than a year ago after disclosures
that faulty documents were being used to seize homes. Harris
said a proposed settlement was “inadequate” and would allow
too few California homeowners to stay in their homes.  Michael Cosgrove, a spokesman for Freddie Mac, declined to
comment on the California lawsuit.  Keosha Burns, a spokeswoman at Fannie Mae, referred
questions about the lawsuit to the Federal Housing Finance
Agency, the regulator of mortgage financiers. FHFA spokeswoman
Stefanie Johnson declined to comment on the complaint.  The case is California v. Federal National Mortgage
Association, CPF-11-511771, and California v. Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp., CPF-11-511772, California Superior Court ( San
Francisco ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  