-- FBI Pulls Off ‘Perfect Hedge’ to Nab New Insider Trading Class
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2011-12-20T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/fbi-pulls-off-perfect-hedge-to-nab-new-insider-trading-class.html
The  New York  field  office  of the
FBI sits a block west of Foley Square, where Roman and Greek-
inspired courthouses with four-story colonnades loom over a
small town of judicial institutions in which the biggest of
America’s financial crimes are prosecuted.  Almost five years ago, in a conference room 23 stories
above the plaza, FBI agents David Chaves and Patrick Carroll
surveyed the midtown skyline to the north, home to much of the
world’s financial industry. They had received some disturbing
intelligence: a surge in profits at hedge funds might be the
result of an epidemic of insider trading.  The two men, head of securities and commodities fraud units
at the New York office, faced a dilemma. Informants had told
them the hedge fund industry was similar to organized crime:
insular and distrusting of outsiders. Without people on the
inside, the government would have a tough time gathering enough
evidence to prosecute. They needed more tools to gather more
information on traders who move faster, and more secretly, than
your typical Mafia soldier.  “It was reminiscent of that scene in ‘Jaws’ where they get
their first look at the shark,” Chaves said. He told Carroll,
“We’re going to need a bigger boat.”  That bigger boat came in the form of a landmark change in
the way white-collar crime is investigated in the U.S., agents
said. The only way to uncover  insider trading  was to apply the
same techniques agents used to dismantle the Mafia: court-
authorized wiretaps of phones, informants and cooperating
witnesses.  ‘Perfect Hedge’  At that moment, “Perfect Hedge” was born. This is the
behind-the-scenes story of that historic, sprawling, nationwide
insider-trading initiative by those who ran it.  Over the next five years, the operation by the New York
offices of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Manhattan
U.S. Attorney led to prosecutions that disrupted multiple rings
of illegal trading by portfolio managers, bankers and
consultants. It is the biggest insider trading investigation
since the days of Ivan Boesky and Michael Milken, and the
largest ever in the world of hedge funds.  Agents in New York spent years monitoring clandestine 
wiretaps as traders received and passed illicit tips. The FBI 
learned everything it could about fund managers suspected of 
being criminals, conducting surveillance as targets passed 
secrets on street corners, in gyms, or handed out bags of money 
for information.  Illicit Profit  And it all began with the realization that hedge fund
managers who illicitly profited on knowledge the public didn’t
have access to could be pursued as vigorously as those who
commit more traditional crimes.  “We coined this investigation ‘Perfect Hedge’ because if
you’re armed with that insider’s information, you can initiate
the perfect hedge,” Chaves said in an interview. “You’re
always protected -- the upside and the down side.”  The results can be seen in the scores of insider-trading
prosecutions made in New York -- from the conviction of Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam to those involving expert-
networking consultants and employees at technology and
pharmaceutical companies.  To date, at least 56 people have been charged with insider
trading and more than 50 have either pleaded guilty or been
convicted after trial as part of the probe, according to the
office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. Wiretaps played
a role in many of these cases.  ‘Identified The Problem’  “We identified the problem, we created the solution to
infiltrate the industry and we put people in well-placed hedge
funds who reported to us on a daily basis,” said Chaves, 48, a
lawyer as well as supervisory special agent. He worked on the
prosecutions of WorldCom Inc. Chairman Bernard Ebbers, who was
imprisoned for accounting fraud, and Martha Stewart, convicted
of obstruction of justice in an insider trading case.  In some circumstances, Chaves said, agents would send in
people wearing wires to record incriminating statements by
targets. Such evidence, he said, “could then be used to provide
us enough probable cause to obtain a wiretap.”  Ironically, the wiretaps that were so crucial to bringing
down defendants in Perfect Hedge will be the basis of an appeal
in its biggest case so far, that of Rajaratnam.  In May, the hedge  fund manager  was found guilty on all 14
counts of  securities fraud  and conspiracy he faced. The trial
showcased 45 recordings by agents working for Chaves and Carroll
of the more than 2,400 taped conversations between Rajaratnam 
and friends, business associates and alleged accomplices.  Goldman Sachs  Prosecutors said he made more than $72 million by using
illegal tips to trade in stocks of companies including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Google Inc., ATI Technologies
Inc. and Clearwire Corp. The investigation has also led to
charges against former Goldman Sachs board member Rajat Gupta.  Gupta, 63, is one of two dozen people charged since August
2009 with being part of insider trading conspiracies tied to
Rajaratnam, 54. Almost all have been convicted.  Once the head of McKinsey and Co., Gupta is accused of
leaking inside information about New York-based Goldman and
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  to Rajaratnam, his friend and business
associate. Gupta, the highest-ranking executive charged in
Perfect Hedge, pleaded not guilty and faces trial next year.  Rajaratnam, who recently began an 11-year prison sentence
-- the longest in U.S. history for insider trading -- has argued
federal laws don’t authorize the use of wiretaps for such an
offense. His lawyers claimed that the government didn't show,
as required by law, that conventional techniques couldn't have 
been used to achieve similar results.  Electronic Surveillance  Two federal judges who ruled the intercepts admissible at
trial nevertheless criticized the government’s tactics. Six
other judges had authorized the use of such electronic
surveillance during the investigation.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan, who
presided over Rajaratnam’s case, allowed the wiretaps to be used
as evidence, yet assailed the affidavit the FBI drafted to
obtain them for “glaring omissions.”  The U.S. failed to disclose “the heart and soul of its
investigation” and the existence of thousands of documents that
had been gathered by investigators and regulators, as well as
the true criminal history of a key informant, the judge said.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan, a New York judge who
presided over the related case of former Galleon trader  Zvi Goffer , allowed wiretaps to be used at that trial. He, too,
voiced concerns about the intercepts, saying he was “deeply
troubled” by the FBI’s failure to stop listening to unrelated,
intimate phone calls between another former Galleon trader,
Craig Drimal, and his wife.  White-Collar Cases  “The government is now using in ‘white collar’ cases the
same tactics that worked so well in organized crime and gang
prosecutions,” said defense attorney Roland Riopelle, a former
federal prosecutor in New York who represented  David Plate .  Plate, a former trader at Schottenfeld Group LLC who
pleaded guilty, agreed to cooperate with the FBI and testified
against Goffer.  “These are very effective strategies where there is
active, ongoing criminal conduct afoot, and the criminals are
doing their best to conceal their conduct from law
enforcement,” Riopelle said.  Obama Administration  Daniel Richman, a former federal prosecutor and a professor
at Columbia Law School in New York, said the Obama
administration has been under pressure by Congress and the media
to go after high-stakes white-collar crimes since the 2008
financial collapse.  “Even before it goes to a judge, a wiretap application has
to survive an intense vetting within the  Justice Department . And
even after a judge signs it, a rigorous set of legal protocols
must be followed,” Richman said in an interview. “You need to
have live monitoring to avoid intercepting non-pertinent
conversations. You need surveillance teams ready to identify
participants.”  FBI agents and prosecutors must also show that other
investigative techniques aren’t likely to be adequate to prove a
crime is being committed, Richman said.  “Wiretaps are highly invasive. That’s why a very robust
legal showing must be made before authority is obtained,” he
said. “Of course, if you just want to wire up an informant, you
don’t need court authorization and it’s a whole lot cheaper.”  He said the expense to the government of wiretapping, and
all the requirements that go along with it, can be prohibitive.  Safeguard For Privacy  “At the end of the day, the cost of a wiretap probably is
as great a safeguard for privacy as the high legal standards
that are needed to obtain one,” he said.  “The template we had going in was to pierce the hedge fund
veil,” said Diego Rodriguez, who is head of the FBI New York’s
Criminal Division and supervises units including the securities
and commodities fraud squads.  “What we’ve done in white collar cases is just taking that
blue-collar technique that we’ve used in organized crime and
applied it to securities fraud,” Rodriguez said.  Under the leadership of now-retired FBI Special Agent In
Charge Peter Grupe, who supervised Chaves and Carroll, the FBI’s
New York office began to use cooperating witnesses to build
insider trading cases. In some instances, Chaves said, agents
sent in cooperators wearing wires to record incriminating
statements by targets.  Such evidence, he said, “could then be used to provide us
enough probable cause to obtain a wiretap.”  Pipeline of Tips  Before wiretaps were used, agents had faced a daunting
task: penetrating networks of illegal activity in a largely
unregulated industry where the pipeline of tips flowed from the
U.S. to  Europe  and even Taiwan. Evidence from recent cases
showed that hedge fund managers sent inside information using
encrypted e-mails, spoke on pre-paid mobile telephones and used
portable flash drives.  To create a pretext for their insider-trading, fund
managers often conducted “cover” trades and cited analyst
reports as a motive for buying or selling.  Use of wiretaps had an additional benefit: it allowed the
targets of an investigation to unwittingly explain complex,
multimillion-dollar transactions, making schemes easier for
jurors to understand and refuting defendant claims that trades
were based on a composite, or “mosaic” of publicly-available
information.  Gordian Knot  “The ‘mosaic theory’ was a Gordian knot and the best way
to cut through that knot was through wiretap techniques,” said
Ray Lohier, who served as chief of the securities unit at the
Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s Office during much of the probe.
Lohier, who called the mosaic defense a “fig leaf,” made the
comments at a recent insider-trading conference. He is now a
federal judge with the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York.  Soon after starting Perfect Hedge, the FBI determined that
insider trading was a business model at some hedge funds, Chaves
said. The industry manages $1.97 trillion in assets, according
to Hedge Fund Research Inc. in Chicago.  The landscape of securities fraud crimes was changing,
informants were telling the FBI in 2007. So-called boiler-rooms,
where corrupt brokers bilked investors by manipulating stocks,
were giving way to insider-trading.  Chaves said defendants charged in so called “pump-and-
dump” schemes knew something bigger was going on.  “They seemed to know people in hedge funds or analysts in
the industry, and were aware of the passing of material,
nonpublic information between hedge funds, analysts and company
insiders,” he said.  ‘Couldn’t Get In’  At first, the FBI considered sending an agent to work
undercover at one of the suspected hedge funds, Chaves said.  “We couldn’t get in. It was such a closed industry -- much
like an organized crime family -- that it was difficult for the
FBI to either introduce an undercover agent or recruit a
cooperator.”  Such an effort wasn’t unprecedented: in 2003, an undercover
FBI agent in New York infiltrated a Wall Street foreign exchange
business in an operation dubbed “Wooden Nickel.”  The agent, nicknamed “Mikey Suits” by colleagues, spent
more than a year posing as a corrupt trader in a Lower Manhattan
boiler room. Eventually the U.S. would charge more than 45
people as part of the investigation. The agent, Michael G.
Grimm, is now a U.S. congressman for New York.  Secret Alliances  Insider trading was another matter, agents said. Corrupt
traders relied upon secret alliances, longtime friendships and
even sexual relationships.  Danielle Chiesi, a former analyst with New Castle Funds LLC
who pleaded guilty in the Galleon case, obtained illegal tips
from former  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  vice president
Robert Moffat, who later said he had an “intimate”
relationship with her.  Rajaratnam relied on Anil Kumar, a former McKinsey partner,
and Rajiv Goel, a former managing director at  Santa Clara ,
California-based Intel, whom he’d known for decades. All three
attended the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania in
Philadelphia.  Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio
manager who pleaded guilty in Perfect Hedge and agreed to
cooperate, said he committed insider trading with two close
friends.  The first was Donald Longueuil, the best man at his wedding
and also a former fund manager at SAC, a Stamford, Connecticut-
based hedge fund founded by Steven A. Cohen. The second was
Samir Barai, founder of Barai Capital Management LP. All three
have pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the federal probe.  College Roommate  Arthur Cutillo, a former lawyer with Ropes & Gray LLP, used
prepaid mobile phones to pass tips about pending mergers he
learned of while working at the firm. He gave them to his former
college roommate, Jason Goldfarb. In turn, Goldfarb, an attorney
in New York, said he gave the inside information to his boss,
Zvi Goffer of Galleon. Goffer, 35, provided at least one of
these tips to Rajaratnam, according to trial testimony.  With such a tightly knit circle of friends, schoolmates and
even lovers, the FBI didn’t have a candidate that could work
their way inside, Chaves said.  “Unless you’re a trusted or made member in the hedge fund
world and have a reputation for self-dealing, no one is going to
do business with you,” he explained. “No one is going to tell
you their secrets, no one is going to tell you the inside
information. You have to be part and parcel of that industry.”  With Perfect Hedge, the FBI identified lower-level
associates and learned enough about them, their crimes and
personalities to persuade them to become cooperators.  Your Dry Cleaner  “For the best FBI agents, it’s the prep work that goes
into making sure their approach of a cooperator works, to
understand every facet of this person’s life, everywhere they
go,” Chaves said. “Because there’s the element of surprise,
and the agent is there waiting for you outside your dry cleaner
and says, ‘Hey, listen, we need to talk to you.’ The image that
portrays to a would-be cooperator is ‘These guys have done their
homework and they’ve got me.’”  Case agents working for Carroll and Chaves are advised to
learn everything they can about suspects and individuals they
intend to talk into cooperating, Chaves said -- everything from
whether they favor “Dunkin’ Donuts or Starbucks and where they
eat lunch.”  Freeman said FBI agents “flipped” him when he found them
waiting by his car in the parking lot of the New England prep
school where he worked, after he had left SAC Capital. They
played him a recording of his own voice as he was committing
insider trading. After that, he gave agents information on at
least a dozen people with whom he allegedly committed crimes.  Secretly Cooperate  Jason Pflaum, a former Barai Capital analyst, said he
decided to secretly cooperate after agents approached him in
October 2010. He continued to work for the firm until he pleaded
guilty in January. He also said he wore a wire during the same
period and gave information to authorities about crimes
committed by “more than 10” people.  Agents also began to be more aggressive in pressing
cooperators for more names, Chaves said.  “It’s not just asking the guy in a pump-and-dump scheme,
‘What did you do?’” he said. “It’s asking ‘What else do you
know?’ ‘Who did you talk to?’ and ‘What have you heard on the
street?’”  In this way, the FBI convinced the same friends Rajaratnam
corrupted for illegal tips -- Kumar and Goel -- to testify
against the hedge fund manager at trial, along with former
Galleon portfolio manager Adam Smith.  Expert Networkers  Perfect Hedge began to expand even further with cooperators
such as Karl Motey, an independent consultant who posed as a
hedge fund manager and wore a wire as part of the investigation.
He represented a new stage of the probe, as it leapfrogged from
hedge funds trading in technology stocks to the company
employees who provided the tips -- all via so-called expert
networking firms.  Expert networkers, or matchmaking firms as Chaves called
them, place industry experts with fund managers looking for an
inside perspective on a company and industry. Some also passed
nonpublic information to fund managers for money, the U.S. said.  During meetings and meals in Silicon Valley, and at a
Manhattan technology conference, Motey secretly recorded
conversations with James Fleishman and Bob Nguyen, both
executives with expert networking firm Primary Global Research
LLC. He also recorded phone consultations with technology firm
employees moonlighting for  Mountain View , California-based
Primary Global as they passed illegal tips to their hedge funds
clients, according to evidence revealed in court.  Fleishman was convicted in September following a trial.
Nguyen, who cooperated with the U.S. and testified against him,
pleaded guilty.  Technology Companies  Motey also recorded calls with Primary Global consultants
and employees at technology companies such as  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  and Samsung Electronics Co., as they
passed illegal tips to him. The recordings were played at
Fleishman’s trial.  “It began with hedge funds,” Chaves said, “then we
started looking at analysts, we started looking at matchmaking
consulting firms. We started to look at insiders at companies.
The landscape keeps changing but insider trading is still the
label attached to all of it.”  While wiretaps were crucial to the conviction of many
defendants, including Rajaratnam, cooperating witnesses were
also needed to get the wiretaps in the first place, agents said.  Roomy Khan  While she never testified at trial, one cooperating
witness, former Intel executive  Roomy Khan , played a significant
role in Rajaratnam’s case because she provided the U.S. with the
evidence needed to obtain a wiretap.  Under the law, the FBI can’t merely open a criminal case
and begin intercepting calls. Evidence must first be gathered
showing probable cause that crimes are being, and continue to
be, committed on the targeted telephone, Chaves said.  At a hearing last year, FBI Special Agent B.J. Kang and
prosecutors said they were only able to obtain the necessary
evidence to get a wiretap on Rajaratnam in March 2008, after
Kang convinced Khan to cooperate.  The calls which Khan made to Rajaratnam and others on
behalf of the FBI provided the government with the evidence
needed to apply for a wiretap, prosecutors and agents testified.  Eventually, almost 3,000 calls were intercepted by the FBI
in Rajaratnam’s case and another 1,000 calls were recorded
during the related probe of Goffer, according to testimony at
pretrial hearings last year.  Challenged Government Methods  John Dowd, Rajaratnam’s lawyer, challenged the government’s
methods before trial, saying prosecutors and agents failed to
disclose to the judge who approved the wiretap that Khan had
previously been convicted of  wire fraud .  The government had already spent nine years investigating
Galleon, Dowd said, and Rajaratnam had given a seven-hour
deposition to the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2007,
part of which focused on suspicions of insider trading. The U.S.
had amassed thousands of documents, according to the lawyer, and
the probe had “appeared” to wind down in late 2007.  “Instead, it merely marked the point at which the
government shifted from the conventional investigative
techniques it had been using for the last nine years in favor of
a wiretap,” Dowd wrote.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers have said they will appeal his
conviction, arguing the wiretaps were illegal. Kathryn Holmes Johnson, a spokeswoman for his lawyers, declined to comment.  Related Schemes  During Perfect Hedge, agents working on separate
investigations began running into each other, Chaves said,
eventually revealing what were initially thought to be unrelated
schemes were in fact a web of insider trading conspiracies that
crisscrossed industries, countries and people.  “That’s what was so amazing, that everyone who started
cooperating seemed to know everyone else,” the agent said. “At
first, it was very surprising to us. It seemed like daily we’d
identify a relationship, like ‘Wow, I can’t believe they went to
school together,’ or ‘I can’t believe he was the best man at his
wedding.’ That’s when we began to see that, as big as this
industry is, it’s also that small, at least the core of people
who were engaged in this conduct.”  The connections can be seen in the case of Don Ching Trang Chu, a former Primary Global consultant who pleaded guilty in
June.  Chu, swept up in a spate of arrests last year tied to
expert networkers, admitted in June that he facilitated a
conversation between Richard Choo-Beng Lee, a former partner at
 San Jose , California-based Spherix Capital LLC, and an
unidentified employee of a publicly-traded technology company.  Foot In Door  Both Lee and his partner, Ali Far, pleaded guilty. In
October 2009, they agreed to cooperate with the U.S. in the
Galleon case. That month, Rajaratnam was arrested.  “We got our foot in the door with one person,” Chaves
said. “That one person led us to others.”  Expert networker Mark Anthony Longoria, a former manager at
Sunnyvale, California-based AMD, pleaded guilty to passing
secrets while working as a Primary Global consultant and agreed
to cooperate. Longoria testified that he became concerned upon
reading about Rajaratnam’s arrest.  On a call with Fleishman, Longoria expressed concern that
he’d be implicated for consulting with Lee and Far at Spherix.
The FBI was listening in on the call.  “I was like ‘Oh crap!’ It made me extremely nervous,”
Longoria told Fleishman. “I’m like ‘God, dang it! What the hell
is going on?’”  Fleishman replied, “Hopefully this will just kind of …”  “Blow over,” Longoria interrupted.  A Tip’s Trail  The secret network of illegal information which Perfect
Hedge was able to uncover can also be shown in a trade involving
the 2007 acquisition of pharmaceutical company  Axcan Pharma Inc (AXCA) .  Goffer passed a tip about Axcan to Rajaratnam, according to
trial testimony. The tip originated from Cutillo and Brien Santarlas, Ropes & Gray lawyers who knew an associate of Goffer,
witnesses testified.  Goffer also passed that tip to Franz Tudor, a trader at
Schottenfeld, who then passed the information to Anthony
Scolaro, who at the time was a portfolio manager for Diamondback
Capital Management LLC. Goffer, Tudor, Santarlas and Cutillo
would all be charged by federal prosecutors. Cutillo, Santarlas
and Tudor would all plead guilty. Goffer was convicted following
a trial and sentenced to 10 years in prison.  Scolaro, who earned about $1.1 million in profits trading
on the tip, secretly entered into a plea agreement with the
government on Nov. 12, 2010.  Ten days later, FBI agents from New York and Boston
executed search warrants at Diamondback’s offices as well as
those of Level Global Investors LP and Loch Capital Management.  New Prosecutions  The FBI searches preceded another round of insider-trading
cases brought by the FBI and Manhattan assistant U.S. attorneys.
They included the prosecutions of Longueuil, Barai, Freeman and
former FrontPoint Partners LLC fund manager Joseph ”Chip”
Skowron. All have been convicted.  Some of the thousands of documents gathered by the FBI in
those raids and searches have already been used at trial in
Manhattan federal court. The investigation is continuing, the
government said.  “We’ve seen a tremendous change over the years that has
gone from ‘pump-and-dump’ schemes to subprime frauds to options
backdating to insider trading,” Chaves said. “The bad guys out
there will counter the things we’re doing as the facts and FBI
tactics become known in court. But Perfect Hedge encompasses
everything that we’ve done in the last 2 1/2 years -- and every
case that’s going to come in the next 2 1/2 years.”  Easier Argument  Columbia’s Richman said the argument that insider trading
isn’t covered by federal wiretap laws, a contention advanced by
Rajaratnam’s lawyers, is unlikely to succeed. The crimes of mail
fraud and wire fraud are covered by the statute, “and insider
trading can amount to violations of those statutes,” he said.  “One of the things that the Rajaratnam case has done is
make it easier for the government to claim that insider-trading
conversations really will occur over the phone,” Richman said.
“And just as wiretaps will naturally come up when the
government is considering a large-scale corruption or organized-
crime investigation, so should we now expect them to be
considered in insider-trading probes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 