-- Fed’s Kocherlakota ‘More Upbeat’ on Economy After New Data
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2011-12-20T16:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/fed-s-kocherlakota-more-upbeat-on-economy-after-recent-data.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said recent government data have
made him more optimistic about the outlook for the  U.S. economy .  “I am slightly more upbeat,” Kocherlakota said today in
an interview on CNBC television.  The regional Fed chief’s comments aligned with the Dec. 13
statement by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal Open
Market Committee , which said the U.S. economy “has been
expanding moderately” compared with the Nov. 2 assessment that
growth “strengthened somewhat.” Kocherlakota supported the
Fed’s decision this month to refrain from further easing.  “One of the things that gives me pause about doing more
accommodation at this time is a lot of measures of slack right
now look fairly consistent with what they looked like seven
years ago in mid-2004,” Kocherlakota said, referring to
measures of hours per worker and capacity utilization.  “The one metric that looks very different, of course, is
the unemployment of those who have been unemployed more than six
months,” Kocherlakota said. “That means, if we use more
accommodative policy, we’re trying to use it to lower the long-
term  unemployment rate .”  The Labor Department reported Dec. 2 that the unemployment
rate in November fell to 8.6 percent from 9 percent the previous
month. The portion of  jobless workers  who have been unemployed
for more than half a year was 43 percent, down from a peak of
45.6 percent in May 2010. Following the 2001 recession, long-
term unemployment peaked at 23.6 percent.  Fallout From Crisis  Kocherlakota said additional fallout from the European
sovereign-debt crisis could require Fed action if the outlook
for inflation began to fall and unemployment rose.  “If my inflation forecast was to soften below where we
were in the fall and  unemployment  was to rise above where we
were, that would be an argument for further accommodation,
certainly,” he said.  Kocherlakota, 48, has led the Minneapolis Fed since October
2009. He dissented from a Fed pledge in August to keep  interest
rates  near zero through mid-2013 and a decision in September to
sell $400 billion of short-term Treasuries and buy $400 billion
of longer-term securities, known as Operation Twist.
Kocherlakota said today that economic circumstances have
improved -- not worsened -- over the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  