-- Fed Strengthens Its Tools for Preventing Collapse of Large Financial Firms
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2011-12-21T00:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/fed-bolsters-tools-for-averting-collapse-of-big-financial-firms.html
The  Federal Reserve  sought to curb
the threat of financial turmoil by compelling the biggest banks
to follow a tougher standard for risk management and demanding
stricter oversight by companies’ boards of directors.  The proposed rules would set triggers for regulatory
enforcement for weak firms and require boards of directors to
oversee and approve plans for limiting  liquidity risk . The Fed
delayed releasing rules for supervision of foreign firms and for
risk-based capital and leverage requirements.  The draft  standards  aim at averting a recurrence of
instability following the collapse of U.S. mortgage finance,
targeting banks with assets totaling $50 billion or more and
financial firms deemed “systemically important.” The Dodd-
Frank law passed in July 2010 mandates a supervisory crackdown.  “You do see a sense of regulatory forbearance that
continues with the Fed in that they understand that to help
these banks earn their way back to financial health, you just
can’t slap an increased capital requirement overnight,” said
Mark T. Williams, executive-in-residence at  Boston University 
and a former bank examiner.  The 24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which had dropped 30 percent
in 2011 through yesterday, rose 4.1 percent today. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index increased today by 3 percent to 1,241.30 in
 New York .  “The proposal would create an integrated set of
requirements that seeks to meaningfully reduce the probability
of failure of systemically important companies and minimize
damage to the financial system and the broader economy in the
event such a company fails,” the Fed said today. Comments on
the proposal are due by March 31.  Revenue Pinched  “The rules are really going to be quite different for the
largest institutions,”  Gary Townsend , a founder of Hill-
Townsend LLC in  Chevy Chase ,  Maryland , said on Bloomberg
Television. “It seems foolish to me to be basing this on size”
rather than on business model and complexity, he said.  Under the proposal banks’ boards of directors would be
required to review regular reports from senior management on
capital adequacy and sign off on plans to fund institutions in
times of liquidity stress and economic strain.  The boards would annually need to approve internal
liquidity proposals and set levels of risk gauged to companies’
“financial condition and funding capacity on an ongoing
basis,” the central bank said.  ‘Dramatic Change’  The emphasis on the board of directors is a new regulatory
trend and “a dramatic change in the level of care that boards
need to take in these regulatory areas,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, a managing partner at Federal Financial Analytics in
Washington D.C.  The Fed hasn’t specified capital and leverage requirements
and industry representatives have an opportunity to comment on
the 95 questions contained in the 173-page proposal. The
strength of the rules hinge on how the Fed reacts to public
comment, former Fed Governor Randall S. Kroszner said.  “The motivation is to try and reduce fragility of the
system and reduce interconnectedness,” among firms, Kroszner
said.  “But if the rules are not properly implemented or the
definitions don’t properly capture the relevant risks, then you
could actually increase interconnections rather than decrease
it,” Kroszner said. He is currently a professor at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business.  Failure of a Company  The Fed would curb a larger firm’s exposure to a single
counterparty “in order to limit the risks that the failure of
any individual company could pose to a covered company,”
according to the proposal.  The central bank would set a limit of 10 percent for credit
risk between a company considered systemically important and a
counterparty when each have more than $500 billion in total
assets. This is tougher than the Dodd-Frank act, which allowed
for a 25 percent limit.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by
assets, said in a regulatory filing that its credit risk to any
single counterparty didn’t exceed 2 percent of the firm’s $949
billion in total assets as of Sept. 30.  The Fed would require “early remediation” for large firms
that show weakness in capital, stress test results and risk
management. Regulators would be allowed to impose restrictions
on a company’s growth, capital distributions, executive
compensation and asset sales.  Not Quick Enough  “It’s trying to take some of the judgment out of the hands
of regulators, who some believe did not act as quickly as they
should have,” said Deborah Bailey, a director at  Deloitte &
Touche LLP  and a former deputy director of supervision at the
Fed.  Designing the early remediation procedures was one of the
toughest tasks for regulators, a Fed official said today in a
conference call with reporters. The central bank sought to
design remedial steps that didn’t hasten a firm’s demise, the
official said on condition of anonymity.  Regulators already could pursue such supervisory steps
toward banks through prompt corrective action, mandated by a law
in 1991. Today’s proposal increases that authority to holding
companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  