-- Fisker Automotive Expands Latest Financing Round to $133 Million
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2011-12-20T03:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/fisker-automotive-expands-latest-financing-round-to-133-million.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., the startup
maker of plug-in hybrid luxury sports cars, doubled the amount
of private equity investment sought in its latest financing
round as it seeks funds to increase production.  The $66 million funding brings the total amount of private
investment in the Anaheim,  California  based company to more than
$766 million, according to company spokesman Roger Ormisher. It
adds to the $67 million raised as part of the same financing
round, according to a Dec. 1 filing, and follows the $305
million the company received in earlier investments this year.  “In the current market situation, we thought it prudent to
continue this policy and raise money that was potentially
available,” Fisker said today in an e-mailed statement. The
company has expanded its target for the latest round to $300
million from $150 million.  Fisker, whose existing backers include Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers, Palo Alto Investors LLC, and lithium-ion
battery maker  A123 Systems Inc (AONE) , plans to start preparing for an
initial public offering after starting deliveries to customers,
Chief Executive Officer Henrik Fisker told Bloomberg TV in
November 2010.  The company has investments from  Asia  and the  Middle East ,
Ormisher said. He wouldn’t name the investors in the current
round of financing.  The Irvine, California-based company began U.S. shipments
of its Karma model vehicles in October from Valmet Automotive
Oy’s plant in Uusikaupunki, Finland. The $88,000 plug-in hybrids
have one lithium-ion battery that powers two electric motors for
as far as 50 miles (80 kilometers). A gasoline-powered engine
can power the motors to extend the range an additional 250
miles.  Fisker plans to make its cheaper Nina model cars at a
former General Motors Co. factory in Wilmington,  Delaware , after
converting it with private funding and $529 million in loans
from the U.S. Department of Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  