-- Forint Gains Second Day After Hungarian Central Bank Raises Rate
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2011-12-20T16:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/forint-extends-gains-after-hungarian-central-bank-raises-rates.html
The forint gained a second day after
 Hungary ’s central bank increased the European Union’s highest
benchmark interest rate and signaled it may tighten further amid
a dispute with government.  Hungary’s currency strengthened as much as 1.2 percent and
traded 0.8 percent stronger at 300.9 per euro by the close in
Budapest. Hungary’s benchmark 3-year government bonds advanced,
cutting the yield nine basis points to 8.45 percent. The Magyar
Nemzeti Bank raised the benchmark two-week deposit rate by a
half-point for a second month to 7 percent, matching the
estimate of 15 of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank last month raised the benchmark rate for
the first time since January and said it was ready for further
increases if warranted by the outlook for inflation and risk
perception. The forint weakened on Dec. 16, when the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund  interrupted talks with Hungary after
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  moved to curb the central bank’s
independence.  “With the talks on IMF support on hold, one of the few
leverages the central bank for stabilization of domestic markets
is the benchmark interest rate,” Aurelija Augulyte, a
Copenhagen-based economist at Nordea Bank AB, wrote in an e-mail
after the central bank decision. “They may continue to hike
early next year if the tensions persist.”  The central bank also cut its estimate for next year’s
gross domestic product growth to 0.1 percent from a previous 0.6
percent latest and said that its Report on Inflation “assumes”
higher interest rates in the coming period.  ‘Unacceptable’  The decision to raise  interest rates  “impedes Hungary’s
healthy economic growth and runs against EU trends,” the
Economy Ministry in Budapest said in an e-mailed statement after
the decision.  The Hungarian government’s reaction is “unacceptable” and
shows the ministry “doesn’t understand the concept of central
bank independence,”  Andras Simor , the bank’s president, said at
a press conference in Budapest today.  “It would be premature to rule out further, more
aggressive tightening over the coming months” as the central
bank and government remain “at loggerheads” and talks with the
IMF have “seemingly broken down,” William Jackson, a London-
based economist at  Capital Economics , wrote in a research
report.  The benchmark BUX stock  index (BUX)  rose 0.8 percent to 17,650.43
after falling as much as 1 percent earlier today. Stocks rallied
in  Europe  and the U.S. after a report showed that German
business confidence unexpectedly rose for a second month and as
U.S. housing starts rose to the highest level in a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  