-- France Trims Debt Sale Plan as Sarkozy Fights for AAA
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2011-12-20T14:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/france-reduces-planned-debt-sales-for-2012-to-233-billion-amid-tightening.html
France  trimmed its 2012 debt sales
plan as President  Nicolas Sarkozy  implements budget cuts in a
bid to save the country’s AAA credit rating.  France will require 177.9 billion euros ($232.7 billion) in
financing next year, down from the 182 billion euros planned
Sept. 28,  Agence France Tresor  said in an annual statement. That
includes 78.7 billion euros to cover the budget shortfall and
97.9 billion euros to roll over medium and long-term debt.  The funding needs are being set out as  Standard & Poor’s ,
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings review the sovereign
creditworthiness of Europe’s second-largest economy. Sarkozy,
who faces an election in four months, has sought to prepare the
ground for a possible downgrade, saying Dec. 12 that the loss of
the AAA rating wouldn’t be “insurmountable.”  “The financing conditions of France remain very good,”
AFT Chief Executive  Philippe Mills  said today on a conference
call from Paris. “There is no movement among investors to
reallocate assets.”  The premium France pays over  Germany  to borrow for 10 years
is now 113 basis points, up from 40 basis points at the end of
last year.  Even so, the average financing costs of medium and long-
term debt sold in 2011 was 2.8 percent, the second-lowest level
since the creation of the euro after the 2.53 percent yield
achieved in 2010, the AFT said. The bid-to-cover ratio at all
auctions this year was 2.4, up from 2.1 in 2010.  Not Just France  Mills said the ratings companies’ reviews of France’s AAA
status stem from  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and don’t target
France alone. He also said when the 10-year spread with German
bonds jumped to a two-decade high of more than 200 basis points
in the fourth quarter, the AFT saw an increase in demand from
emerging market central banks and sovereign wealth funds, as
well as domestic buyers, including insurers.  “When there was market turbulence in the fourth quarter,
emerging market central banks and sovereign wealth funds
remained net buyers,” Mills said. “There was also a large
number of domestic investors that came into the market as soon
as we saw just a slight increase in yields.”  The proportion of short-term debt in France’s overall debt
stock has dropped to 13.5 percent, from 15.2 percent a year ago
and 18.6 percent at the end of 2009, the AFT said. France’s
national debt stood at 1.69 trillion euros at the end of the
second quarter, according to national statistics office Insee.  Predictable  Short-term debt sales will drop by another 4.2 billion
euros next year, the AFT said. The AFT bought back 23.8 billion
of bonds this year and will continue to buy back in the months
ahead, depending on market conditions.  “In terms of overall strategy, our intention is to remain
transparent, predictable and flexible,” Mills said.  The AFT is studying the possibility of issuing variable-
rate long-term bonds, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  