-- French Banks Rush to Raise EU37 Billion in Early 2012 Funds
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2011-12-21T18:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/french-banks-scamper-to-raise-eu37-billion-early-2012-funding.html
BNP Paribas SA,  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,
Credit Agricole SA and Groupe BPCE, France’s biggest banks, are
struggling to fund about 37 billion euros ($48 billion) of debt
payments due in the first quarter.  As their access to  U.S. dollar  short-term funds dries and
they face soaring costs in the bond market, French lenders are
raising money by selling their debt through structured products
and issuing bonds backed by mortgages on properties in Paris and
regions including  Cote-d’Azur , the French Riviera playground of
the rich. The  European Central Bank  is also offering them three-
year loans through a facility, which opened today.  “It’s gotten harder and harder to get refinancing on the
markets, and as time goes by rating agencies are taking negative
actions, pushing up already high funding costs,” said Jacques- Pascal Porta, who helps manage 500 million euros at Ofi Gestion
Privee in Paris and owns BNP Paribas shares.  French banks’  credit ratings (BNP)  were cut this month by Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited funding constraints and a
worsening European debt crisis. Their ability to raise money is
limited by their public and private debt holdings in the five
countries at the heart of  Europe ’s crisis --  Greece ,  Portugal ,
Ireland,  Spain  and  Italy  -- which as of June were the world’s
biggest at $681 billion.  Also, with France’s AAA rating at risk, the state may find
it hard to aid them like it did when  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. ’s collapse sparked a crisis in 2008.  Drying Up  European banks overall will have about 300 billion euros of
redemptions in senior debt and covered bonds in the first three
months, the most in the past two years and the highest quarterly
amount in 2012, according to  Barclays Capital  estimates.  BNP Paribas,  France ’s largest bank, has 15.7 billion euros
coming due between January and March, or about half of its
annual redemptions, while Societe Generale, the second-largest,
has 6.6 billion euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The region’s crisis dried up the banks’ access to short-
term U.S dollar funding, with the eight largest prime U.S.
money-market mutual funds cutting holdings of French bank debt
by 68 percent in November. They have reduced the debt holdings
by $76.8 billion in the past 12 months.  To ease funding for European banks, the U.S. Federal
Reserve and five other central banks cut the  interest rate  on
dollar liquidity swap lines by 50 basis points on Nov. 30. While
that has helped, banks still have much to be concerned about,
said  Jonathan Tyce , a banking analyst at Bloomberg Industries.  ‘Not Out of the Woods’  “French banks have significant maturities of senior
unsecured debt in the first half of 2012, and significant dollar
funding needs, where most problems appear to have been,” he
said. “Recent coordinated actions by central banks are a
positive but we are not out of the woods yet.”  French banks’ woes have also moved to longer-term debt. BNP
Paribas and Societe Generale, which got more than 30 percent of
their 2011 medium- and long-term refinancing through senior debt
sales, said they haven’t tapped the market since the summer.  BNP Paribas, which completed its 35 billion-euro medium-and
long-term funding plan in July, sold 8 billion euros in debt by
the end of October through private placements, distribution in
networks and home-loan covered bonds. It has achieved about a
third of its 2012 medium- and long-term funding program.  Societe Generale has shrunk its 2012 long-term refinancing
plans by about 50 percent to as much as 15 billion euros, and
said its needs are “fully achievable.” The Paris-based bank,
with 21.8 billion euros of redemptions next year, its highest
annual amount, said it has a “regular repayment schedule, with
more than 65 percent of the outstanding maturing beyond 2013.”  ECB Loans  BNP Paribas slid 3 percent in Paris today to 29.25 euros,
bringing its decline this year to 39 percent. Societe Generale
fell 3.4 percent to 16.63 euros, giving it a 59 percent drop
this year.  French banks, like other lenders across the euro region,
were able to tap the ECB’s funding window today.  The ECB, while balking at broadening its sovereign bond-
buying program, today begins offering unlimited funding against
collateral for as long as three years in President Mario Draghi’s effort to get cash flowing in the financial system.  The decision gives “some comfort” to European banks,
allowing them to keep lending and avoid a credit crunch, Societe
Generale Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea , who also heads
the French Banking Federation, said in a Dec. 16 interview on
BFM radio. Banks may also use the window to meet funding needs.  “There is no reason not to tap it because it’s a way to
secure one’s 2012 financing program,” Oudea said.  Bond Freeze  The Frankfurt-based ECB awarded 489 billion euros in 1,134-
day loans, more than economists’ median estimate of 293 billion
euros in a Bloomberg News survey. The ECB said 523 banks asked
for the funds, to be lent at the average of its benchmark rate,
currently 1 percent, over the period of the loans.  The ECB loans come with an expectation from European
governments that banks will buy sovereign bonds, which they may
be reluctant to do. As a consequence, for now “the question is
when banks will be able to issue term debt again,” said Jean- Marc Moriani, founder of advisory firm JM Conseil and a former
head of Natixis SA’s investment-banking unit.  Senior bond markets for European banks have been almost
shut since investors were forced to write down Greek sovereign
debt in July. European Union leaders raised the level of Greek
debt writedowns for bondholders to 50 percent in October.  Spreads on euro-denominated bank bonds have widened to 424
basis points, from 235 basis points on Dec. 31, 2010, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s EUR Corporates, Banking Index shows.  Covered Bonds  As the cost of raising money in the  bond market  soars,
banks will cut sales by 60 percent in Europe next year, Societe
Generale predicted last month in a European credit research note
entitled “Rotten to the Core.” Banks will sell 50 billion
euros of senior notes, down from a euro-area low of 121 billion
euros so far this year, the note said.  French banks have sold at least 14 billion euros of debt to
cover next year’s needs, or 20 percent of their 2012 long-term
funding programs, which on average they’re reducing by 40
percent, according to estimates from Guillaume Tiberghien, a
London-based analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.  “When debt expires, it doesn’t mean that they need to
issue immediately,” Tiberghien said in a phone interview.
“Right now, long-debt markets aren’t really open, but when
things reopen, it will be first covered bonds.”  Covered bonds, or securities backed by mortgages or public-
sector loans as well as the borrower’s guarantee, will be the
only type of debt whose sales may not fall in Europe, Societe
Generale analysts estimated. There may be 185 billion euros of
such debt sold in 2012 compared with 183 billion euros by
November, they estimated.  ‘Safe Product’  “It’s a safe product, given the French banks’ origination
quality in residential real estate,” Moriani said. “One will
see how much they can still issue.”  BNP Paribas, Societe Generale,  Credit Agricole  and BPCE
have AAA-rated covered-bond sales units that use home loans to
back debt. Societe Generale got 19 percent of its funds from
covered bonds in 2011; for BNP Paribas, it was 18 percent.  Private placements accounted for 29 percent of BNP
Paribas’s funding needs, while placements through networks made
up 17 percent. Societe Generale got the biggest chunk of its
funding, or 42 percent, from structured private placements.  Meanwhile, banks and the French government have dismissed
any talk of possible state support for lenders.  “The extreme solution would be that the state put in place
refinancing guarantees like it did after Lehman,” said Ofi
Gestion’s Porta. “But this time that would have a perverse
effect, with rating agencies ready to cut sovereign grades.”  AAA Rating  France provided about 20 billion euros to boost capital at
its largest banks after Lehman’s September 2008 bankruptcy.
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  also set up a 320 billion-euro
contingency fund to guarantee bank debt.  Now, with France’s top-notch credit rating at risk, the
government may find its hands tied. France’s credit outlook was
cut by  Fitch Ratings  on Dec. 16 on the “heightened risk of
contingent liabilities” from the escalating euro-region crisis.
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s are reviewing France’s ratings.  French banks’ external debt is about 104 percent of the
country’s gross domestic product, with 60 percent being short-
term, “implying sizable external refinancing needs for the
French banking sector in 2012,” S&P estimated Dec. 5.  S&P on Dec. 7 placed ratings of BNP Paribas, Societe
Generale,  Credit Agricole (ACA)  and BPCE on watch for a possible
downgrade. Moody’s cut its ratings on BNP Paribas, Societe
Generale and Credit Agricole on Dec. 9.  “Liquidity and funding conditions have deteriorated
significantly,” Moody’s said in its statement. The likelihood
that they “will face further funding pressures has risen in
line with the worsening European debt crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  