-- Fresenius Medical Revises 2011 Revenue, Sees Profit at Lower End of Range
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2011-12-20T08:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/fresenius-medical-revises-2011-revenue-sees-profit-at-lower-end-of-range.html
Fresenius Medical Care AG , the
world’s biggest provider of  kidney dialysis , cut its full-year
revenue forecast after the debt crisis in  Europe  caused the euro
to weaken against the  U.S. dollar .  Revenue will be 1 percent to 2 percent below the $13
billion forecast for this year, the  Bad Homburg , Germany-based
company said in a statement today. Net income will be at the low
end of the target range of $1.07 billion and $1.09 billion,
according to the company.  Chief Executive Officer Ben Lipps has said he aims to make
more acquisitions next year to increase sales and offset lower
Medicare reimbursements in the U.S. The company has agreed to
spend $2.73 billion on purchases in 2011, according to Bloomberg
data. The euro is trading close to an 11-month low today.  “It’s not an operating problem,” said Karl-Heinz Scheunemann, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg who has
a “buy” rating on the stock. “It’s a purely transnational
effect of converting currencies. It’s also been their strongest
year for acquisitions so it wouldn’t be a surprise if they had a
few million dollars in extra costs.”  Fresenius Medical Care fell as much as 2.3 percent. The
stock dropped 1.2 percent to 50.50 euros at 9:13 a.m. in
Frankfurt trading.  Acquisition Spree  The company has been getting less revenue per treatment
from the U.S., hurt by a new “bundled” Medicare reimbursement
system that aims to cut down on the overuse of drugs. It sees
opportunities for expansion in eastern Europe,  Asia  and  Latin
America , Lipps has said.  Fresenius Medical will likely spend as much as $300 million
on transactions next year, once it completes the purchase of
Liberty Dialysis Holdings Inc. in the U.S. for $1.7 billion,
Chief Financial Officer Michael Brosnan said in  November. The
company also spent 485 million euros ($631 million) on Euromedic
International’s dialysis service business in June.  “The U.S. dollar appreciation is clearly a problem for
them,” said Ulrich Huwald, an analyst at M.M. Warburg.
“Currency effects will not hurt profit at the same rate as
sales. This year they had some one-off costs related to the
acquisition of Liberty Dialysis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  