-- GE Lighting’s Sylvester Says LEDs May Be 80% of Market by 2020
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2011-12-20T13:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/ge-lighting-s-sylvester-says-leds-may-be-80-of-market-by-2020.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  expects most
light bulbs, including the incandescent invented by founder
Thomas Edison, to be replaced within a decade by light-emitting
diodes that can last from a child’s birth through college.  “People are starting to talk about LEDs for general
lighting for indoors,” Maryrose Sylvester, who was appointed
head of the lighting unit in March, said in an interview in  New
York . “By 2020, about 70 to 80 percent of the general lighting
market is going to be enabled by LEDs.”  Siemens AG’s Osram unit and Royal Philips NA, GE’s
traditional rivals, have both predicted similar growth rates as
new regulations combine with declining LED prices to make the
lighting systems more attractive to individual and commercial
buyers.  To take advantage of that, GE’s lighting unit has doubled
its research and development spending on LED technology over the
past five years, Sylvester said without providing a specific
figure.  Munich-based Siemens is expecting the market to grow to $13
billion (about 9.8 billion euros) by 2013 and rise another 44
percent by 2016. Philips, based in Amsterdam, predicted in
September that 45 percent of the market will be LED-based by
2015.  Because LED systems are more expensive on the front end,
demonstrating to customers how the investment pays off with
lower maintenance costs and energy savings is critical,
Sylvester said.  ‘Technology Shift’  “As we go into this technology shift, we’re seeing
customers much more aware today about energy consumption, much
more interested in terms of improving their energy bills,
whether they’re a commercial building owner or business owner or
a consumer,” Sylvester said.  Though LEDs remain more expensive than other bulbs, prices
have dropped as environmental regulations target less energy-
efficient lamps. In the U.S., a 2007 law phases out 100-watt
incandescent bulbs starting next year by setting efficiency
standards they don’t meet, followed by 75-watt lamps in 2013 and
40- and 60-watt bulbs in 2014.  Edison’s 19th-century invention won a reprieve under a
spending deal reached last week by Republican and Democratic
leaders in Congress that would block the Energy Department from
enforcing the law. GE said it’s still obligated to comply with
the legal standard, which remains on the books.  An LED bulb’s efficiency is directly related to how it
generates light. With an incandescent bulb, electricity heats a
filament for illumination, with some energy spent on unwanted
heat.  Commercial Systems  With an LED, connecting an electric  power source  to a lamp
stimulates electrons in a semiconductor chip so that they move,
giving off light.  Because efficiency lies in the LED package and how it’s
configured, GE is concentrating on system designs for its
commercial customers rather than making the LED equivalent of an
incandescent bulb. It’s relying on suppliers such as Cree Inc.
for the semiconductor chip.  “Our expertise is in how you put the whole application
together and configure it for a key application,” Sylvester
said.  In the commercial lighting segment alone, LED illumination
may make up 52 percent of the market by 2021,  Pike Research 
forecasts. The market may reach $42 billion this year and peak
at nearly $54 billion in 2012 before gradually declining to
about $30 billion by 2021 as usage of the longer-lasting systems
increases.  GE, Siemens  Because industry leaders such as GE and Siemens face
competition from newer Asian companies manufacturing the systems
less expensively, they must reduce LED prices to win in the
market, said Konkana Khaund, the industry manager for market
researcher  Frost & Sullivan , which assesses lamp and lighting
markets.  Some traditional manufacturers now charge as much as $200
for a product low-cost producers flood the market with at half
the price, she said.  “The LED market is a hyped market,” Khaund said,
referring to forecasts from a broad range of sources.  GE’s experience in the lighting business, as well as the
breadth of its customer base and product lines, gives the
company an edge, Sylvester said.  “We have the opportunity and the challenge to think
broadly about lighting,” she said. “Over the long run, that’s
going to help us win. Customers want one partner.”  LED lighting in the North American market will overtake
incandescent bulbs, which comprise about one-third of sales, in
2016, Frost & Sullivan predicts.  In the U.S., GE’s  Cleveland , Ohio-based lighting unit leads
both Phillips and Siemens. The business employs about 17,000
workers worldwide and provided about $3 billion of the parent
company’s $150.2 billion in sales last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at   jlangford2@bloomberg.net  