-- German Stocks Gain as Business Confidence Gauge Beats Estimates; BMW Rises
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2011-12-20T16:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/german-stocks-gain-as-business-confidence-gauge-beats-estimates-bmw-rises.html
German stocks (DAX)  climbed the most this
month after a measure of the country’s business confidence
unexpectedly increased and U.S. housing starts topped
economists’ estimates.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,  Continental AG (CON) ,
 HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  and  Metro AG (MEO)  led gains.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  added 5
percent after saying four of its drugs in development may become
blockbusters.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  declined after a deal to sell
its T-Mobile USA unit to AT&T Inc. collapsed.  The DAX Index gained 3.1 percent to 5,847.03 at the close
in Frankfurt, after earlier falling 0.6 percent. That’s the
biggest gain since Nov. 30, and trims this year’s retreat to 15
percent. The broader HDAX Index also added 3.1 percent today.  A German business  confidence index , based on a survey of
7,000 executives, rose to 107.2 this month from 106.6 in
November, the Munich-based Ifo institute said today. Economists
had predicted a drop to 106, the  median forecast  of 36
economists in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  “The Ifo index was definitely quite a positive surprise,”
said Markus Huber, head of German sales trading at ETX Capital
in  London . “The German economy doesn’t seem to have seen such a
negative impact from the financial crisis as many would have
thought just a couple of months ago.”  U.S. Economy  U.S. builders broke ground in November on the most houses
in more than a year, a sign that the market is stabilizing
heading into 2012, Commerce Department figures showed. Federal
Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker  predicted the
U.S. economy will grow at least 2 percent next year.  In the U.K., consumer confidence rose in November from a
record low as Britons’ expectations for the economy improved in
the run-up to Christmas, Nationwide Building Society said.  Shares fell yesterday as European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said substantial risks to the economy remain and
the law forbids him from increasing government-bond purchases to
fight the debt crisis.  BMW, the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, rose 4.3
percent to 52.22 euros and Continental, Europe’s second-largest
car-parts maker, gained 6.4 percent to 49.39 euros.  Metro, Germany’s biggest retailer, rose 3.9 percent to
29.33 euros. HeidelbergCement increased 5.9 percent to 31.52
euros.  Daimler AG (DAI)  added 5.9 percent to 33.19 euros, the largest
gain this month. The automaker is seeking an investor to take a
stake of as much as 10 percent and is in talks with China
Investment Corp., Manager Magazine reported. HeidelbergCement,
the world’s third-largest maker of cement, added 5.9 percent to
31.52 euros.  Kloeckner & Co SE (KCO) , a steel and metal products
distributor added 6.5 percent to 9.35 euros.  Bayer Blockbusters  Bayer rose 5 percent to 46.99 euros after saying four of
its drugs may become blockbusters, ultimately contributing 5
billion euros ($6.5 billion) to annual revenue.  Blood-thinner Xarelto has the brightest prospects, with
peak sales probably exceeding 2 billion euros a year,
Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer said today. Bayer’s eye drug
VEGF Trap-Eye and cancer  medicines Alpharadin and regorafenib
have billion euro potential, the drugmaker said.  Air Berlin Plc  jumped 7 percent to 2.68 euros after the
carrier was raised to “hold” from “sell” at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  Deutsche Telekom lost 0.6 percent to 8.84 euros. AT&T
Inc.’s $39 billion bid to acquire the company’s  T-Mobile USA 
division came to an end yesterday in a phone call between the
companies’ chief executive officers, according to people
familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  