-- German Economy May Avoid Recession in 2012, Two Institutes Say
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2011-12-20T10:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/german-economy-may-avoid-recession-in-2012-two-institutes-say.html
The German economy will probably
avoid a recession even as orders from its main euro-area trading
partners slump during the debt crisis, two economic institutes
that advise Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government said.  The Kiel-based IfW institute said  economic growth  will slow
to 0.5 percent in 2012 from 2.9 percent this year while the RWI
in Essen said in a separate report today that the expansion will
decelerate to 0.6 percent from 3 percent. Both institutes cut
their outlook for next year from earlier predictions.  “Negative impetus should come from foreign trade because
production in important trading partner countries in the euro
region will decrease noticeably in some cases,” the Kiel
institute said in an e-mailed report. “But the German economy
will not end up in a recession.”  Unemployment  in  Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest economy, is at a
two-decade low of 6.9 percent, supporting  consumer spending  and
helping to limit the impact of the euro-region turmoil. Business
confidence unexpectedly rose for a second month in December, the
Ifo economic institute said today.  “The continuing clouding-over of the foreign trade
environment” is the main reason for its lowered forecast, said
the RWI institute, which three months ago predicted growth of 1
percent for next year. “The fact that domestic demand is still
pointing upward has a stabilizing effect.”  Consumer confidence  will hold its gains in January as
falling unemployment boosts the economic outlook even as
Europe’s debt crisis worsens, market research company  GfK SE (GFK) 
said today, forecasting that its consumer-sentiment index, based
on a survey of about 2,000 people, will remain at 5.6 next month
after three straight increases.  German unemployment  dropped more than economists forecast
in November, with the number of people out of work falling a
seasonally adjusted 20,000 to 2.91 million and the adjusted
jobless rate dropping to 6.9 percent. Economists forecast a
decline of 5,000, the median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed.  “Leading indicators suggest that economic output will
stagnate in the winter half” of the year, the RWI said. “The
economy will recover somewhat in the course of 2012.”  German industrial production rose more than economists
forecast and factory orders surged the most in 19 months in
October after three straight declines. Ifo’s  business climate
index  rose to 107.2 from 106.6 in November. Economists expected
a drop to 106, the median forecast of 36 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  The Bundesbank said yesterday that German economic growth
will slow to 0.6 percent in 2012 from 3 percent this year before
improving to 1.8 percent in 2013. The Kiel institute said 2013
growth will be 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  