-- German Business Confidence Unexpectedly Rose a Second Month
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2011-12-20T10:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/german-business-confidence-unexpectedly-rose-a-second-month-2-.html
German  business confidence 
unexpectedly rose for a second month in December, suggesting
 Europe ’s largest economy is weathering the region’s debt crisis.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, rose to a three-month high of 107.2
from 106.6 in November, the Munich-based institute said today.
Economists expected a drop to 106, the median forecast of 36
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  showed.  “It just confirms that Germany is weathering the storm,”
said Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets
Europe in London. “Order books are still full, wage agreements
are boosting  consumer confidence  and any decline in exports to
the euro area is being cushioned by the U.S. and  China .”  The Ifo index is the latest indicator to show  Germany  is
being shielded from the worst of Europe’s debt crisis. Investor
sentiment unexpectedly rose for the first time in 10 months in
December and gauges of manufacturing and services activity also
increased. German consumer confidence will hold its gains in
January as unemployment at a two-decade low boosts the economic
outlook, market research company GfK SE said today.  Ifo’s gauge of the  current situation  was unchanged at
116.7, while an index measuring executives’ expectations
increased to 98.4 from 97.3. The euro extended its gains after
the report and traded at $1.3075 at 11:05 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  ‘Better Prepared’  Some companies are counting on U.S. and emerging-market
sales to offset the drop in European demand. Luxury carmakers
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and Daimler AG said this month they
will set up factories in  Brazil  and the U.S. respectively to
help sustain growth. BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said Dec. 16 that sales will grow in the U.S., China
and Europe next year unless the global economy falters.  “We are better prepared for a potential crisis” than
during the 2009 recession because of lower production costs and
a better financial cushion, Reithofer said.  In the U.S.,  consumer spending  probably climbed 0.3 percent
in November as Americans flocked to auto showrooms and shopped
for holiday bargains, according to a Bloomberg News survey. The
Commerce Department is due to publish the data on Dec. 23. The
euro’s 10 percent decline against the dollar since the end of
August may help German sales outside the currency region by
making goods more competitive.  Debt Crisis  As European governments struggle to find a lasting solution
to a debt crisis that has pushed up sovereign borrowing costs
and toppled five elected governments, the  European Central Bank 
has introduced a menu of measures designed to avert a credit
crunch.  It cut its  benchmark interest rate  to 1 percent this month,
matching a record low, and is introducing three-year unlimited
bank loans. The first of those loans will be allotted tomorrow.  “One aspiration is to have them financing the real
economy, especially small- and medium-sized enterprises,” ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said in an interview with the Financial
Times published yesterday.  Germany and its companies won’t escape the crisis
unscathed.  The economy will grow at the slowest pace in three years in
2012 as the turmoil in Europe threatens demand in the country’s
largest market, the Bundesbank said yesterday. Metro AG, the
nation’s biggest retailer, on Dec. 6 cut its 2011 sales and
profit forecast, blaming “the increasingly noticeable effect”
of the debt crisis.  The Bundesbank forecast economic growth will slow to 0.6
percent in 2012 from 3 percent this year before recovering to
1.8 percent in 2013. Its base scenario is that the debt crisis
doesn’t worsen and uncertainty among investors and consumers
“gradually lessens.” The ECB cut its 2012 euro-area growth
forecast this month to 0.3 percent.  “Companies will notice the crisis, but if we are lucky we
may even avert a recession, which in any case would only be a
mild one,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover.
“The economy is robust and will not fall off a cliff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  