-- German Business Sentiment Probably Fell to Lowest in 21 Months
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2011-12-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/german-business-sentiment-probably-fell-to-lowest-in-21-months.html
German  business confidence  probably
fell to the lowest in 21 months in December on concern  Europe ’s
worsening sovereign debt crisis will hurt companies’ earnings
and tip the economy into recession.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will drop to 106 from 106.6 in
November, the median forecast of 36 economists in a Bloomberg
News  survey  shows. That would be the lowest since March 2010 and
follows an unexpected increase last month. The institute
releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  Germany’s economy will grow the least in three years in
2012 as the turmoil in Europe threatens demand in the country’s
largest market, the Bundesbank said yesterday. Metro AG, the
country’s biggest retailer, cut its 2011 sales and profit
forecast, blaming “the increasingly noticeable effect” of the
debt crisis.  “ Germany  has held up extremely well up to now but it would
be unrealistic to expect that it can escape the slump that’s
engulfing Europe,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING
Group in Brussels. “However, companies are much better prepared
than they were in 2008 and the economy will come out of the
downturn faster than other countries.”  Ifo’s gauge of the  current situation  may have declined to
116 from 116.7, while an index measuring executives’
expectations probably fell to 97 from 97.3, the survey of
economists shows.  Bundesbank Forecast  The Bundesbank forecast yesterday that economic growth will
slow to 0.6 percent in 2012 from 3 percent this year before
recovering to 1.8 percent in 2013.  It said its base scenario is that the debt crisis doesn’t
worsen and that uncertainty among investors and consumers
“gradually lessens.” The  European Central Bank  cut its 2012
euro-area growth forecast this month to 0.3 percent.  Some companies are counting on U.S. and emerging-market
sales to offset the drop in European demand. Luxury car makers
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and Daimler AG said this month they
will set up factories in  Brazil  and the U.S. respectively to
help sustain growth. BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said Dec. 16 that sales will grow in the U.S.  China 
and Europe next year unless the global economy falters.  “We are better prepared for a potential crisis” than
during the 2009 recession because of lower production costs and
a better financial cushion, Reithofer said.  U.S. Demand  In the U.S.,  consumer spending  probably climbed 0.3 percent
in November as Americans flocked to auto dealer showrooms and
shopped for holiday bargains, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. The Commerce Department is due to publish the data on
Dec. 23. The euro’s 10 percent decline against the dollar since
the end of August may help German sales outside the currency
region by making goods more competitive.  German domestic demand may be bolstered by unemployment at
a two-decade low. Investor sentiment unexpectedly rose for the
first time in 10 months in December and gauges of manufacturing
and services activity unexpectedly increased.  As European governments struggle to find a lasting solution
to a debt crisis that has pushed up sovereign borrowing costs
and toppled five elected governments, the ECB has introduced a
menu of measures designed to avert a credit crunch. It cut its
 benchmark interest rate  to 1 percent this month, matching a
record low, and is introducing three-year unlimited bank loans.
The first of those loans will be alloted tomorrow.  “One aspiration is to have them financing the real
economy, especially small- and medium-sized enterprises,” ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said in an interview with the Financial
Times published yesterday.  “This is a confidence crisis, not a crisis of Germany’s
real economy,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg
Bank in  London . “The next few months are going to be tough, but
Germany will also be the first out of the starting blocks
again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  