-- German Business Confidence Rises as Nation Set to Avoid Recession: Economy
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2011-12-20T11:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/german-business-confidence-unexpectedly-climbs-after-euro-crisis-agreement.html
German  business confidence 
unexpectedly rose for a second month in December as two economic
institutes predicted  Europe ’s biggest economy will stave off the
debt crisis and avoid a recession in 2012.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 107.2 from 106.6 in
November, the Munich-based institute said today. Economists
predicted a drop to 106, the median of 36 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey shows. The IfW and RWI institutes both
released predictions showing economic growth in 2012.  “It just confirms that  Germany  is weathering the storm,”
said Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets
Europe in London. “Order books are still full, wage agreements
are boosting consumer confidence and any decline in exports to
the euro area is being cushioned by the U.S. and  China .”  Strengthening business confidence, along with a report
today showing  consumer sentiment  will hold its gains next month,
adds to evidence that the strength of Germany’s economy has
protected it from the worst of the region’s debt crisis.
Investor sentiment unexpectedly rose for the first time in 10
months in December and measures of manufacturing and services
activity also increased.  Ifo’s gauge of the  current situation  was unchanged at
116.7, while an index measuring executives’ expectations
increased to 98.4 from 97.3. The euro extended its gains after
the report and traded at $1.3079 as of 12:05 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Growth Forecasts  The Kiel-based IfW institute forecast growth will slow to
0.5 percent in 2012 from 2.9 percent this year, while the RWI in
Essen said that expansion will decelerate to 0.6 percent from 3
percent. German  consumer confidence  will hold its gains in
January as unemployment at a two-decade low boosts the economic
outlook, market research company GfK SE said today.  Some companies are counting on U.S. and emerging-market
sales to offset the drop in European demand. Luxury carmakers
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and Daimler AG said this month they
will set up factories in  Brazil  and the U.S. respectively to
help sustain growth. BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said Dec. 16 that sales will grow in the U.S., China
and Europe next year unless the global economy falters.  “We are better prepared for a potential crisis” than
during the 2009 recession because of lower production costs and
a better financial cushion, Reithofer said.  Swedish Rates  Elsewhere in Europe,  Sweden ’s central bank cut its main
 interest rate  for the first time since 2009 and signaled it may
keep the benchmark unchanged over the next year as Europe’s debt
crisis saps growth. The seven-day repo rate was lowered a
quarter point to 1.75 percent.  Australia ’s central bank earlier
said resource investment is helping the economy ride out the
turmoil in Europe.  In the U.S.,  consumer spending  probably climbed 0.3 percent
in November as Americans flocked to auto showrooms and shopped
for holiday bargains, according to a Bloomberg News survey. The
Commerce Department is due to publish the data on Dec. 23. The
euro’s 10 percent decline against the dollar since the end of
August may help German sales outside the currency region by
making goods more competitive.  As European governments struggle to find a lasting solution
to a debt crisis that has pushed up sovereign borrowing costs
and toppled five elected governments, the  European Central Bank 
has introduced a menu of measures designed to avert a credit
crunch.  ECB Move  It cut its  benchmark interest rate  to 1 percent this month,
matching a record low, and is introducing three-year unlimited
bank loans. The first of those loans will be allotted tomorrow.  The measures are “aimed at addressing the funding
pressures of the banking system in the euro area,” ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said at the European Parliament in
Brussels yesterday. “At this point in time, the priority has to
be ensuring we don’t have a recession coming from a tightening,
coming from funding pressure.”  Germany and its companies won’t escape the crisis
unscathed.  The economy will grow at the slowest pace in three years in
2012 as the turmoil in Europe threatens demand in the country’s
largest market, the Bundesbank said yesterday.  Metro AG , the
nation’s biggest retailer, on Dec. 6 cut its 2011 sales and
profit forecast, blaming “the increasingly noticeable effect”
of the debt crisis.  The Bundesbank forecast economic growth will slow to 0.6
percent in 2012 from 3 percent this year before recovering to
1.8 percent in 2013. Its base scenario is that the debt crisis
doesn’t worsen and uncertainty among investors and consumers
“gradually lessens.” The ECB cut its 2012 euro-area growth
forecast this month to 0.3 percent.  “Companies will notice the crisis, but if we are lucky we
may even avert a recession, which in any case would only be a
mild one,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover.
“The economy is robust and will not fall off a cliff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  