-- Gingrich Counterattacks in Iowa Decrying ‘Negative Junk’ Ads
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2011-12-20T05:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/gingrich-counterattacks-in-iowa-decrying-negative-junk-ads.html
Newt Gingrich  urged his rivals for
the Republican presidential nomination to refrain from attacks
on him as he returned to Iowa amid signs his surge in the polls
is waning.  “What the campaign should really be about is who has the
best ideas, who has the best solutions,” he told about 100
people yesterday in the garage of a security company in
Davenport, Iowa. “It’s very disappointing,” he said, to see
his fellow Republicans putting “out so much negative junk.”  Campaigning in Hiawatha, Gingrich called on his competitor
 Mitt Romney  to stop airing an attack ad sponsored by a group
supporting his campaign. “If you see Romney, ask him to take it
off the air,” he told voters gathered in the warehouse of an
apparel manufacturer.  The pro-Romney group, Restore Our Future, has spent
$550,000 on ads in  Iowa  and  Florida  that attack Gingrich as a
candidate with “a ton of baggage.”  Gingrich is being targeted by millions of dollars of
negative ads. The campaign has eroded support for the former
House speaker with two weeks to go before the first votes in the
nomination fight are cast in Iowa.  40 Campaign Stops  Gingrich said he planned to make more than 40 stops in Iowa
before its Jan. 3 caucuses. He said he would use the events and
daily telephone conferences with Iowa voters to answer “any
question” that comes up based on criticisms made by his rivals.  “I really wish they had the courage to be positive,” he
said of his opponents. “I have faith in the people of Iowa
that, over a two-week period, we will sort out who is being
honest and who isn’t.”  Attacks by Republican opponents against Gingrich, which
grew following his rise in polls, show signs of taking their
toll.  A national  poll  released yesterday by  CNN  showed a tie
between Gingrich and Romney, a former Massachusetts governor,
with each getting the backing of 28 percent of Republican
voters. In CNN’s November poll, Gingrich led Romney 24 percent
to 20 percent.  Gingrich’s campaign spent an estimated $130,500 on
television advertisements -- all in Iowa -- through Dec. 18,
according to data compiled by CMAG/Kantar Media, a  New York- 
based company that tracks political spending.  Gingrich Outspent  That’s about one-ninth of the $1.16 million that Romney’s
campaign and an independent political action committee
supporting his campaign have spent on television ads.  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry , who is airing an ad attacking
Gingrich and Romney on health-care issues, and an independent
committee supporting his candidacy have spent $2.69 million on
television ads.  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas has spent $1.1
million on television ads, including about $36,000 on an ad in
Iowa that accuses Gingrich of “serial hypocrisy.”  Asked by reporters about his drop in polls, Gingrich
pointed to the spending.  “Watch TV here for two days,” he said. “You’ve had all
sorts of people and all sorts of these super PACs who have been
consistently running negative ads. Well, you get enough negative
ads before you start answering them, your numbers go down for a
while.”  His strategy of remaining positive will pay off at the Iowa
caucuses, Gingrich said.  Doing Obama’s Work  “They’re in effect doing Barack Obama’s work,” he said.
“I think the average Republican is going to be very unhappy
with candidates whose entire campaign is negative.”  Gingrich called for changes in federal campaign spending
laws, including allowing individuals to give unlimited amounts,
as long as it is disclosed on a daily basis. Republicans and
Democrats are worried about his candidacy, he said.  “The establishment in both parties is panicking, just as
they did with  Ronald Reagan ,” he said. “It will make many
conservatives in  Washington  who are establishmentarians very
uncomfortable to have their cozy world shaken as badly as the
election of Newt Gingrich would shake it up.”  Responding to a voter question, Gingrich played down the
amount of money he personally received from  Freddie Mac , the
government-backed mortgage company that paid his consulting
business at least $1.6 million after he left Congress.  “I probably got about $35,000 a year,” he said. “That
was less than I was making per speech.”  Inside Contact  Gingrich’s primary contact inside the organization was
Mitchell Delk, Freddie Mac’s chief lobbyist, and he was paid a
monthly retainer of $25,000 to $30,000 between May 1999 until
2002, according to three people familiar with aspects of the
business agreement.  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  has been
especially critical of Gingrich in recent days for taking money
from the lender, which lost millions in the collapse of the
housing market. He called such charges “fundamentally
inaccurate,” while saying he could have done a better job in
answering questions about the matter.  “I didn’t try to sit down, before running, and figure out
every possible question somebody could ask me because it would
be like Wikipedia,” he said, a reference to the encyclopedia-
like website.  Gingrich took a veiled shot at Paul, who has called for
reduced military spending, during his Davenport event.  “I stand apart from some of our candidates in believing
that we need a strong defense,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Davenport, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ; Lisa Lerer in Hiawatha, Iowa, at +1-
   llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  