-- Google Faces Setback in Smartphone Push as Android Patent Rulings Roll In
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2011-12-20T18:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/google-starts-to-face-pressure-as-android-patent-rulings-roll-in.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is facing potential
setbacks in its efforts to get smartphone makers to stick with
the Android operating system as legal rulings begin to roll in
on patent-infringement claims by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   A U.S. International Trade Commission ruling yesterday
determined that Android phones made by  HTC Corp. (2498)  violate an
Apple patent, and a judge at the agency is scheduled to release
findings today on whether Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.’s
devices infringe Microsoft’s technology.  A loss for Motorola Mobility -- which Google agreed to
acquire for $12.5 billion in August -- combined with yesterday’s
ruling against HTC, would bolster criticisms that the operating
system Google began licensing to handset makers three years ago
is vulnerable to lawsuits, said  Will Stofega , an analyst at IDC
in Framingham,  Massachusetts . Cases also target  Barnes & Noble (BKS) 
Inc.’s Nook reader and Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy tablet.  “Death by a thousand cuts can lead to some bad things,”
Stofega said of the possibility for additional adverse rulings.  A judge is scheduled to release findings Jan. 13 in an
Apple case against Motorola Mobility, and a hearing in a
Microsoft case against Barnes & Noble is set for February. Apple
also has a second case against Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC and and
a complaint targeting Samsung scheduled for trial next year. All
of the cases single out devices that run Google’s Android.  The rulings are among the first in dozens of patent-
infringement complaints that proliferated in 2010 as smartphone
makers began battling over a market that Strategy Analytics Inc.
said increased 44 percent last quarter from a year earlier to
117 million phones worldwide.  Shutting Down Choice  Android, which Google licenses for free to further its
mobile-advertising business, has become the more frequent target
as it became the most popular smartphone system, accounting for
almost 70 percent of the U.S. market last quarter,  Palo Alto ,
California-based researcher Canalys  reported  Oct. 31.  Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  said the ITC is “being used
by some companies to try to shut down choice.”  “It’s bad,” Schmidt said in a Dec. 12 interview in
 Washington . “From a consumer perspective, you want choice and
the consequence of this ITC mechanism is that it appears, if it
does find against Android, it could limit your choice.”  The trade commission is a quasi-judicial arbiter that can
block imports of products found to infringe U.S. patents. The
agency has become a venue of choice for patent grievances since
it typically completes investigations faster that U.S. courts.  Stronger Position  The  HTC ruling  yesterday, which didn’t go as far as Apple
sought, should give the iPhone maker “a stronger position” in
its intellectual-property cases against other Android-device
makers,  Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group in  San
Francisco , said in a note to clients.  “With about $80 billion in net cash, we believe Apple is
not interested in a financial settlement with HTC or other
Android vendors but wants to stop the shipment/sale of products
that infringe on their vast IP portfolio,” Marshall said.  HTC won on three of the four patents that were being
considered by the six-member commission. In response to the one
patent it lost, HTC said it will remove a feature that lets
smartphones recognize telephone numbers. Phones that have that
technology face an import ban beginning April 19.  “While elimination of this feature slightly widens
iPhone’s differentiation versus HTC’s Android smartphones, it is
a relatively small prize for Apple and a small dent against
Android in the grand scheme of the smartphone patent wars,”
 Mike Abramsky , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto,
said in a note to clients.  Cost to Build  Microsoft contends it owns technology that is used in
Android. The Redmond, Washington-based software maker has
licensing agreements with HTC, which also sells phones that use
Microsoft’s Windows Phone operating system, and with  Samsung. (005930)   While Android is licensed for free, the royalty demands by
Microsoft create costs for handset makers. Apple’s claims that
Android copies features of the iPhone may make using the Google
system an even more expensive bet.  “The whole idea is not to have to rebuild things from an
Android or any other perspective,” Stofega said.  Google, which hasn’t been named in any Apple cases, denies
copying the iPhone and said in an Oct. 6 filing that Apple is
trying to control the U.S. smartphone market through litigation.  Barnes & Noble, the New York-based bookstore company, has
asked the U.S. Justice Department to investigate Microsoft’s
royalty demands, accusing that company of “embarking on a
campaign of asserting trivial and outmoded patents” in order to
increase the cost of Android and “drive out competition.”  Fighting Back  Motorola Mobility is targeting Microsoft’s Xbox video
gaming system, seeking to block imports of the signature product
in Microsoft’s entertainment division. Xbox and PC games
generated about $8.9 billion in sales in the fiscal year ended
in June, or about 13 percent of Microsoft’s total revenue.  HTC has two cases pending against Apple at the U.S. trade
agency, and the two have a half-dozen civil suits pending
against each other in the U.S. S3 Graphics Co., a company HTC
agreed to buy in July, lost one case against Apple at the trade
agency and has another case pending, as does one filed by  VIA (2388) 
Technologies Inc. Cher Wang, the chairwoman of HTC, also heads
VIA.  Samsung has gone a step further and engaged in an
escalating legal battle with Apple that now spans courts in four
continents. In all, at least 30 cases are pending in 10 nations
between the two companies.  “The battle between Apple and Android is going to
continue,” said Peter Toren, a patent lawyer with Shulman
Rogers in Potomac,  Maryland , who has been watching the cases.
“It’s likely to continue in various forums and
among various manufacturers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  