-- Google, Sprint, Juniper, Smith & Nephew, Broadcom: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2011-12-20T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/google-sprint-juniper-smith-nephew-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most popular Internet search engine, was sued by British
Telecommunications Plc for allegedly infringing six U.S. patents
for mobile-device technology.  BT, based in  London , is seeking a jury trial and
unspecified damages against  Mountain View , California-based
Google, according to a complaint filed Dec. 15 in federal court
in Wilmington, Delaware.  “BT has invested heavily over the last 20 years,”
generating “numerous patents,” and Google’s products including
the Android operating system, maps, search, music and book
services wrongly “incorporate BT’s patented technologies,”
according to the complaint.  Last year, BT sued U.S. cable company Cox Communications
Inc. in the same court over four patents for transmitting data
over cable networks. A trial in that case is tentatively
scheduled for 2014, according to court papers.  “We believe these claims are groundless,” Jim Prosser, a
Google spokesman, said in an e-mailed message. He said the
company would defend against them.  The case is British Telecommunications Plc v. Google Inc.,
11-CV-1249, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Sprint Sues Time Warner, Comcast Over Digital Phone Technology  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-largest U.S. wireless
operator, accused  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) ,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and two
other cable-TV companies of infringing patents related to
transmitting phone calls over digital lines.  Sprint filed separate lawsuits yesterday in federal court
in Kansas City, Kansas, against Time Warner Cable, Comcast,
Cable One Inc. and Cox Communications Inc. Overland Park,
Kansas-based Sprint claims the companies are using technology it
patented in the 1990s for transmission of voice data packets.  The companies “have realized the great value in this
technology and have misappropriated it without Sprint’s
permission,” Sprint said in each complaint.  The 12 patents include some that were asserted against
 Vonage Holdings Corp. (VG) , which agreed to pay $80 million to
license the technology after losing a 2007 trial.  Alex Dudley , a spokesman for New York-based Time Warner
Cable, said the company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.
John Demming, a spokesman for Philadelphia-based Comcast, also
declined to comment.  Rima Calderon, a spokeswoman for Cable One parent
 Washington Post Co. (WPO) , said the Washington-based company doesn’t
comment on litigation. Todd Smith, a spokesman for Atlanta-based
Cox, declined to comment, citing the pending lawsuit.  The cases are Sprint Communications Co. v. Time Warner Capt
Inc., 11cv2686; Sprint v. Cable One Inc., 11cv2685; Sprint v.
Comcast Cable Communications LLC, 11cv2684; and Sprint v. Cox
Communications Inc., 11cv2683, all U.S. District Court for the
District of Kansas (Kansas City).  Juniper Networks Sues Palo Alto Networks Over U.S. Patents  Juniper Networks Inc. accused Palo Alto Networks Inc. in a
lawsuit of infringing six U.S. patents for firewall technology
used to protect communications networks from intrusion.  Juniper, based in Sunnyvale,  California , is seeking a jury
trial, unspecified damages and an order to stop misuse of its
inventions, according to the complaint filed today in federal
court in Wilmington, Delaware.  “As a leading high-performance networking company, we will
take every appropriate measure to defend and protect our
innovation,” David Shane, a Juniper spokesman, said in an
e-mail.  Palo Alto networks, based in  Santa Clara , California, “was
founded by several former high-level employees of Juniper to
compete against Juniper,” lawyers for Juniper said in court
papers.  “We don’t provide comment on these types of matters,”
Mike Haro, a spokesman for  Palo Alto Networks , said in a phone
interview.  In a statement last week, Haro’s firm said it was named by
industry researcher Gartner Inc. as a leader in the rapidly
evolving field.  The case is  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  v. Palo Alto Networks
Inc., 11-cv-1258, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Smith & Nephew $85 Million Verdict Against Arthrex Removed  A U.S. judge threw out an $85 million verdict that  Smith &
Nephew Plc   had won against  Arthrex Inc.  over patented
technology for surgical anchors used in shoulder surgery.  U.S. District Judge Michael Mosman in Portland, Oregon,
found that, under the correct interpretation of the patent, no
reasonable jury could find that Arthrex infringed the Smith &
Nephew patent, Arthrex said in a statement.  The devices are anchored to a bone to repair tears in the
rotator cuff or in the labrum, a fibrous ring in the shoulder
socket. The June trial was the third in the case, which began in
2004 against Naples, Florida-based Arthrex.  “While we are very pleased with the judge’s ruling, we are
perplexed by S&N’s continued attempt to compete in the courtroom
rather than the marketplace,” John W. Schmieding, Arthrex’s
general counsel, said in the statement.  London-based Smith & Nephew,  Europe ’s biggest maker of
artificial hips and knees, targeted the SutureTak and PushLock
line of suture anchors made by closely held Arthrex.  “We’re disappointed in the court’s latest ruling,” said
Joe Metzger, a spokesman for Smith & Nephew. “We are reviewing
the decision and expect to appeal and request reinstatement of
the jury’s verdict.”  The case is Smith & Nephew Inc. v. Arthrex Inc., 04cv29,
U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon (Portland).  Broadcom Says Judge Ruled Against Emulex on Infringement  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , a developer of integrated circuits for
high-speed data networks, said a federal judge ruled that  Emulex
Corp. (ELX)  infringed two of its patents.  The infringing products include semiconductors and four
channel switches, Irvine, California-based Broadcom said in a
statement yesterday.  An entry in the court docket in Santa Ana, California, said
U.S. District Judge James Selna had denied Emulex’s motion for
summary judgment.  “We are pleased with the court’s decision and to have
prevailed in our case against Emulex,” Art Chong, Broadcom’s
general counsel, said in the statement.  Broadcom said it has asked the court to issue a permanent
injunction that would prohibit the sale of the infringing
products, the company said. The case was filed in November 2009.  Katherine Lane, a spokeswoman for Costa Mesa, California-
based Emulex, didn’t immediately return a message seeking
comment.  The case is Emulex v. Broadcom, 09-01310, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California, Southern Division (Santa
Ana).  Apple Wins Final U.S. Patent Ruling Banning Some HTC Phones  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a final patent-infringement ruling that bans
some  HTC Corp. (2498)  smartphones from the U.S., bolstering efforts to
prove that devices running the Google Inc. Android system copy
the iPhone.  The U.S. International Trade Commission’s ban would take
effect April 19 and is subject to appeal by HTC and a review by
President Barack Obama that may delay enforcement. The
commission said in a notice yesterday that it found HTC’s
Android phones infringed a patent related to data-detection
technology, completing a review of a judge’s findings in July.  The ruling is the first definitive decision in the dozens
of patent cases that began to proliferate in 2010 as smartphone
makers battle over a market that Strategy Analytics Inc. said
increased 44 percent last quarter from a year earlier to 117
million phones worldwide. Apple has been the most aggressive in
its legal efforts, trying to slow the growth of Android devices,
including those made by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and HTC.  HTC, the second-largest maker of Android phones, used its
partnership with Google to help transform itself from a contract
manufacturer founded in 1997 in Taoyuan, Taiwan, to the biggest
U.S. smartphone seller in the third quarter. HTC generated about
$5 billion in U.S. sales last year, according to a separate
patent complaint it filed at the trade agency against Cupertino,
California-based Apple. That’s more than half of HTC’s $9
billion (NT$275 billion) in global sales last year.  Among the HTC phones at risk of being blocked from the U.S.
are the Nexus One, Touch Pro, Diamond, Tilt II, Dream, myTouch,
Hero and Droid Eris, according to Apple’s original complaint.  Yesterday’s case is In the Matter of Certain Personal Data
and Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software, 337-710,
U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Disney’s ‘Brave’ Application Raises Atlanta Braves’ Ire  The Atlanta Braves National League baseball team is
opposing the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s applications to register
“Brave” as a trademark.  Disney will be releasing an animated film set in Scotland
with a red-haired female heroine in June,  according to a company
website . The film will feature the voices of Julie Walters, Emma
Thompson, Kelly McDonald, Craig Ferguson and Billy Connolly.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Disney seeks to register “Brave” for a variety of
goods, including films, backpacks, furniture, glitter, bedding
and clothing. All told, Disney filed 28 applications for either
“Brave” or “Disney Pixar Brave.”  The baseball team objects to the applications, saying the
public is likely to be confused, even though Disney uses the
singular form of the word, and the team is known as the Braves.  According to the most recent filing with the patent office,
the Braves have asked that proceedings be suspended until March,
saying progress has been made toward the settlement of the
dispute.  Golub Says Wakefern Trademark Dispute on Verge of Settlement  A trademark dispute between the Golub Corp. and the
Wakefern Food Corp. of Elizabeth, New Jersey, is on the verge of
settlement, according to a Dec. 16 court filing.  Schenectady, New York-based Golub sued Wakefern in federal
court in Albany,  New York , Oct. 20, claiming Wakefern’s ShopRite
grocery unit was infringing trademarks belonging to Golub’s
Price Chopper unit. The dispute was related to ShopRite’s
alleged purchase of keywords that would cause its name to pop up
when people were searching for Price Chopper.  Robert E. Heslin  of Albany’s  Heslin Rothernberg Farkely &
Mesiti PC  represents Golub. He said in a letter to the court
that the two supermarket chains are “currently engaged in
negotiations to settle the underlying issues which gave rise to
the current action.” He asked for a 60-day delay in the
proceedings.  The case is Golub Corp. v. Wakefern Food Corp, 1:11-cv-
01254-NAM-DRH, U.S. District Court, Northern District of New
York (Albany)  IPCom Says Dusseldorf Court Doesn’t Stop Legal Threats to Shops  IPCom GmbH & Co. said a Dusseldorf court injunction last
week doesn’t stop it from threatening retailers of HTC Corp.
products with legal action.  “The legal substance of the cease and desist letters is
unchanged,” Alistair Hammond, an outside spokesman for IPCom in
Munich, Germany, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  HTC, the world’s largest maker of mobile phones that use
Google Inc.’s Android operating system, said last week the court
temporarily banned IPCom from threatening HTC retailers with
legal action.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Projekt Red Claims All Infringement Claims Are Legitimate  CD Projekt Red SA , a Polish distributor of computer games,
said it’s 100 percent certain that all the people in Germany to
whom it sent demand letters actually did pirate copies of its
games, PC Gamer  reported .  The Warsaw-based company told PC Gamer that it wouldn’t
identify the precise method it is using to locate game pirates
as this is a trade secret belonging to the company assisting in
the investigation.  Projekt Red has sent demand letters to thousands of
Germans, claiming they are playing a pirated version of the
Witcher 2 game, according to PC Gamer.  The company sold more than a million legitimate copies of
the game and said it is monitoring sites through which people
use the Bit Torrent protocol to download copies without
authorization, PC Gamer reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 