-- Google, KKR Invest in California Solar Projects Powering 13,000 U.S. Homes
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2011-12-20T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/google-kohlberg-kravis-invest-in-u-s-solar-projects-with-fixed-tariffs.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most popular Internet search engine, and  Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
& Co. (KKR)  invested in four  California  solar farms that will provide
enough clean power for about 13,000 U.S. homes.  The projects totaling 88 megawatts of capacity will be
built next year near Sacramento by Recurrent Energy Inc., a unit
of  Sharp Corp. , Google and KKR said today in a statement. This
is the first investment in grid-connected photovoltaic solar
power by Google, which said it has invested more than $915
million in renewable-energy projects.  It also is the first clean-energy investment in the U.S. by
KKR, which invested through SunTap Energy RE LLC, its newly
formed U.S. solar investment unit, according to the statement.
Google invested $94 million, and KKR provided a portion of the
$95 million it has committed to SunTap.  The plants will generate cash from power sales to
 Sacramento  Municipal Utility District, which will pay for the
generated electricity at above-market rates as part of a  feed-in
tariff program  that began this year. The 20-year contracts of
the program  offer  7.5 cents to 27.6 cents a kilowatt-hour
depending on the time of delivery.  Google has invested in other forms of solar energy,
including $168 million in BrightSource Energy Inc.’s Ivanpah
solar-thermal power plant in southern California. It also
provided $280 million earlier this year to SolarCity Corp. and
$75 million for Clean Power Finance Inc. to finance rooftop
photovoltaic installations for more than 10,000 U.S. homeowners.  KKR, which had $58.7 billion in assets under management as
of Sept. 30, has two other renewable-energy investments. It
invested in Spanish solar-energy company T-Solar Global SA and
in wind parks Sorgenia SpA is developing in  France , according to
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  