-- Gorenje Chief Sees Revenue Growing on Emerging Markets Gain
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2011-12-20T11:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/gorenje-chief-sees-revenue-growing-on-gains-in-emerging-markets.html
Slovenian appliance maker  Gorenje (GRVG) 
Group d.d.’s annual revenue will rise to 1.5 billion euros ($1.9
billion) through 2015 as it focuses more on  emerging markets 
because of the European economic slump.  The Velenje, Slovenia-based company will focus on growth in
markets such as  China  and Brazil in coming years, with revenue
for this year set to reach 1.4 billion euros on net income of
9.2 million euros, Chief Executive Officer Franjo Bobinac told
reporters today at the company’s headquarters.  Gorenje is among the export-oriented companies that need to
adjust their strategies to compensate for damped European demand
because of a widening sovereign debt crisis. The biggest risks
to Gorenje’s growth targets are euro-region turmoil, high
commodity costs and rising jobless rates, Bobinac said.  “Since there is great uncertainty in  Europe , we will focus
on emerging markets, especially big cities like  Sao Paulo  in
Brazil,  New Delhi  and Mumbai in India and Beijing and Shanghai
in China,” Bobinac said.  Gorenje, which has acquired rivals Asko Group of Sweden and
Atag BV in Netherlands since 2007 to expand in Europe, wants to
remain an independent company even as its share price is at
“historic lows”, the CEO said.  Rising Shares  Gorenje rose for a third consecutive session, advancing 1.2
percent to 4.10 euros at 11:55 a.m in the capital Ljubljana. The
stock lost just below 70 percent of its value this year which
compares with a 30 decline by the benchmark  SBITOP index (SBITOP)  of six
most-traded stocks in Slovenia.  The Slovenian company, the second-largest exporter after
the Renault SA unit in Novo mesto, has given up plans to boost
capital this year and may move some of its production outside
the country to lower costs, Bobinac said.  The margin for earnings before interest taxes and
depreciation will be “above 5 percent” by 2015, the company
said in documents released to reporters today. Free  cash flow 
will total 40 million euros in 2015, it said.  High prices for raw materials will cost Gorenje 12 million
euros, Bobinac said. Gorenje gets a third of its revenue from
outside euro region and currency risks are increasing in Russia,
Serbia and  Poland , he said. Revenue will remain at 1.4 billion
euros next year, while net income will advance to 13.4 million
euros.  “The new government should focus on easing the tax burden
for companies and reforming the labor market,” Bobinac said.  Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic is seeking to form a new
Cabinet after a surprise victory in a Dec. 4 snap election. The
new administration will need to tackle rising debt, a looming
recession and a threat of credit-rating downgrade by the ratings
services, such as Standard & Poor’s and Fitch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  