-- Debris Recovery Resumes in Crash That Killed Greenhill Managers
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2011-12-21T18:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/greenhill-says-two-managing-directors-believed-killed-in-n-j-plane-crash.html
Investigators resumed recovering
debris today from the New Jersey plane crash that killed all
five people aboard, including two managing directors of
 Greenhill & Co. (GHL)   About 40 percent of the wreckage of the single-engine plane
that plunged onto a highway in northern New Jersey yesterday,
killing Jeffrey F. Buckalew and Rakesh Chawla, had been
recovered by dark last night, said Robert Gretz, an
investigator with the  National Transportation Safety Board .
Debris was spread over a half mile (800 meters), he said.  Buckalew’s wife, Corinne, and two children, Jackson and
Meriwether, were believed to be aboard the plane, according to a
statement from New York-based advisory firm Greenhill. Three
adults and two children on the plane haven’t yet been positively
identified, Gretz said at a briefing last night. A dog on the
plane was killed, he said.  The Socata TBM 700 turboprop plane, which seated six
people, took off from Teterboro,  New Jersey , at 9:50 a.m. and
crashed about 14 minutes later after the pilot  discussed icing 
conditions with flight controllers, Gretz said. The plane was en
route to DeKalb-Peachtree Airport near Atlanta, according to
 flightaware.com .  There was “moderate” to “severe” icing in the area the
Socata was flying through, air-traffic controllers said in
recordings posted on the LiveATC.net website.  The plane belonged to Buckalew, according to Greenhill’s
statement. The address on Buckalew’s FAA license was the same
address for Cool Stream LLC, the registered owner of the Socata.
He had been awarded his private-pilot’s license since at least
January 2002, and the certificate was updated in June 2010 to
let him fly a single-engine airplane and use instruments for
takeoff and landing, according to U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration data. His last medical check was in July.  Traveling on Business  Buckalew, 45, led Greenhill’s North American advisory
activities. He started at the firm in 1996, the year it was
founded, after working at  Salomon Brothers , according to the
company. Chawla, 36, was a managing director for the financial-
services sector. He joined Greenhill in 2003 from Blackstone
Group LP.  The executives were traveling on business for Greenhill,
said a person familiar with the matter, who spoke on condition
of anonymity because the information hadn’t been made public.  “The firm is in deep mourning over the tragic and untimely
death of two of its esteemed colleagues and members of Jeff’s
family,” Chairman Robert Greenhill and Chief Executive Officer
Scott Bok said in the statement yesterday. “Jeff was one of the
first employees of Greenhill. He and Rakesh were extraordinary
professionals who were highly respected by colleagues and
clients alike.”  Crashes on Interstate  The plane crashed on Interstate 287 in Harding, New Jersey,
about 35 miles west of  Manhattan , state police said on Twitter.
Witnesses told the New York Daily News that the plane appeared
to have broken up in flight. A tree-cutting service was to be
brought in today to retrieve parts of the plane lodged in a
tree, Gretz said.  The Socata reached about 126 knots as it climbed and then
slowed to 90 knots about 10 a.m., according to flight data
captured by flightaware.com.  The plane’s stall speed is about 80 knots, meaning it might
have gone into a spin or tumble and that the pilot’s efforts to
recover may have overstressed the wing, said Bill Waldock, a
professor of safety science at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical
University’s campus in Prescott,  Arizona .  “Ice is going to be a factor they will look at and why it
started slowing down,” Waldock said. “If the plane had much
ice, that’s going to increase drag tremendously, further slowing
the plane.”  Personal Aircraft Accidents  There were 852 accidents in the U.S. involving personal
aircraft during the first 10 months of this year, killing 279
people, according to a Dec. 1  report  from the National
Transportation Safety Board. There were 25 commercial aircraft
accidents in the period, mostly involving turbulence and none of
which caused fatalities or substantial damage, the report shows.  Buckalew, who received a bachelor’s degree and master’s in
business administration from the University of  North Carolina ,
advised on transactions in various industries, including VF
Corp.’s $1.97 billion purchase of Timberland Co., Bok said in an
e-mailed statement.  “Jeff was a wonderful man,” Craig W. Ashmore, who leads
M&A strategy for Emerson Electric Co., said in an e-mailed
statement. “He was an exceptional banker who gave Emerson
insightful advice, and he was even-tempered, thoughtful and just
fun to be around.”  Buckalew often won the company’s annual summer golf outing,
Bok said in the statement, and Golf Digest had named him among
the  top golfers  in finance.  Greenhill’s Planes  Chawla received a bachelor’s degree from the  University of
Virginia  and an MBA from the Wharton School at the University of
 Pennsylvania , Bok said in the statement. He helped advise the
U.S. Treasury Department on managing and disposing of the
government’s majority stake in American International Group
Inc., the New York-based insurer bailed out during the 2008
financial crisis, according to Bok.  Greenhill owns a plane used by employees for business
travel and by Robert Greenhill and his family for business and
personal travel, the firm said in a March regulatory  filing .
Greenhill personnel also use airplanes owned by the chairman for
business travel, the filing shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  