-- IAG Pledges to ‘Grab’ Lufthansa’s BMI to Beat Virgin Bid for U.K. Airline
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2011-12-21T12:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/iag-pledges-to-grab-lufthansa-s-bmi-to-beat-virgin-bid-for-u-k-airline.html
IAG, the owner of  British Airways 
and  Spain ’s Iberia, said it’s closing in on the purchase of
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s BMI unit following a counterbid from
U.K. billionaire Richard Branson’s Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd.  While competition from Virgin may extend the sale process,
London-based IAG aims to complete the transaction “sooner
rather than later,” IAG Chairman Antonio Vazquez said in an
interview in Madrid.  “I think we’ll be able to grab it for sure,” Vazquez said
yesterday after a press event. “The negotiations are going well
and I’m very optimistic we will be able to complete the deal.”  Lufthansa said Dec. 12 it was considering an approach for
BMI from Virgin, weeks after IAG had announced a draft accord to
buy the unit from the German carrier. The U.K. companies want
the Castle Donington, England-based airline for its operating
slots at  London ’s Heathrow airport, where both have main bases.  “The deal is being negotiated and Lufthansa wants to get
rid of BMI as soon as possible,” Iberia Chief Executive Officer
Rafael Sanchez-Lozano said in a separate interview at the event.  IAG, as International Consolidated Airlines Group SA is
known,  rose  as much as 2.5 percent and was trading 2.1 percent
higher at 148 pence as of 12:13 p.m. in London, the sharpest
gain on both the six-member Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index and
Spain’s benchmark  IBEX 35 Index. (IBEX)   That values the company at 2.75 billion pounds ($4.32
billion). Cologne-based Lufthansa was priced up 0.25 percent at
9.18 euros in  Frankfurt .  IAG Edge  “IAG is best positioned as it’s willing to pay a
premium,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo Securities in
Paris. “Lufthansa will get some cash and end the negative
issues coming from BMI, while IAG will boost its market share at
Heathrow and have some more aircraft and experienced pilots.”  IAG is very interested in buying Portugal’s TAP SGPS SA to
add routes to  Brazil , though there are no negotiations right now
as the government hasn’t made a decision to sell, Vazquez said.  The purchase of a 29 percent stake in IAG ally  Air Berlin
Plc (AB1)  by long-haul rival  Etihad Airways  of  Abu Dhabi , announced
this week, “was a bit unexpected” and hasn’t yet been evaluated,
though it may have no major impact, Sanchez-Lozano said.  “It’s a natural move by Etihad as they seem to be
interested in the European market,” Vazquez said of the
transaction, which will provide Air Berlin with the equivalent
of $350 million in equity financing and funds for planes.  Strikes by pilots at IAG’s Iberia unit won’t stall the
transfer of aircraft to a lower-cost operation, Sanchez-Lozano
said. The establishment of the new fleet, aimed at boosting the
profitability of short-haul operations, is due in three months.  “This is not something we’ve created overnight just
because we wanted to,” he said. “It’s something necessary
which will be carried out. No matter what happens, Iberia
Express will be operating as planned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  