-- Microsoft Wins Partial Ruling Over Motorola Mobility
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2011-12-21T00:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/microsoft-wins-ruling-in-case-over-motorola-android-phones-1-.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  won a ruling that
 Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. ’s Android phones violate one of
its smartphone patents, while failing to convince a judge that
six others are being infringed as well.  Motorola Mobility, which is being acquired by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
violated a patent for generating meeting requests and group
scheduling, U.S. International Trade Commission Judge Theodore Essex said in a  notice  today. The finding is the second in two
days from the ITC that has determined that some features of
phones running Google’s Android operating system are using
licensed technology without permission.  “As Samsung, HTC, Acer and other companies have
recognized, respecting others’ intellectual property through
licensing is the right path forward,” said  David Howard , deputy
general counsel for Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft.  The ruling falls short of the broader claims originally
sought by Microsoft, which has said its inventions are being
widely used in Android phones. Motorola Mobility General Counsel
Scott Offer said the majority of the ruling is favorable to the
handset maker and may provide clarity on what Microsoft owns to
avoid potential infringement.  “They’re talking about removing that feature from the
product very quickly to avoid infringement, but I’m not sure how
easy that is,” said David Mixon, a patent lawyer at Bradley
Arant Boult Cummings LLP in Huntsville,  Alabama , who’s followed
the case. “Being found to infringe is never a good thing.”  Settlement Is ‘Best’  “Settlement is always the best way,” Mixon said. “At the
end of everything, this is still a business dispute and business
disputes are almost always settled with money.”  The patent is among those that cover a Microsoft program
called  ActiveSync , which is broadly licensed through the
industry, including to  Apple (AAPL)  Inc. and Google.  The judge’s finding are subject to review by the six-member
commission, which can ban imports of products that infringe U.S.
patents. Google said it had no comment on the case.  The Motorola Mobility ruling follows a loss yesterday for
 HTC Corp. (2498) , which was defending itself from claims that its
Android phones were using technology from Cupertino, California-
based Apple without permission. Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC said
yesterday it would be able to work around data-detection
technology that had been found to infringe.  Microsoft also has a case against  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ,
whose Nook e-reader runs Android.  Smartphone Experience  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, has sought
to block U.S. sales of Motorola Mobility’s Android-based
devices, including Xoom tablets and the Atrix, Droid 2, Droid X,
Cliq XT, Devour, Backflip, Charm and Cliq smartphones.  Microsoft had claimed the Motorola Mobility products
infringed seven patents that are “essential to the smartphone
user experience.” They include a patent issued in 1998 for a
system that lets people select file names without being limited
to 11 characters; one issued in 2005 for a technique to update a
contact database; and a patent issued in 2010 covering a way to
know the device’s signal or battery strength.  The patent found to be infringed was issued in 2002 for a
way to generate meeting requests among a group.  Microsoft filed the Motorola Mobility complaint in 2010
after the Libertyville, Illinois-based handset maker refused to
pay royalties.  Xbox Case  In a court hearing in Munich last week over German patent-
infringement claims brought by Microsoft, a Motorola Mobility
lawyer,  Marcus Grosch , said the companies haven’t made much
progress on a possible settlement since a meeting in October. A
Microsoft lawyer,  Peter Hess , told the court that any settlement
would have to wait until Google completes its $12.5 billion
acquisition of Motorola Mobility.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , has said one
reason for buying Motorola Mobility was to obtain patents that
could be used as a bulwark against a surge of lawsuits targeting
handsets and tablet computers that use Android.  Motorola Mobility has its own patent claims against
Microsoft in the U.S. and in  Europe . A case at the ITC targets
the Xbox video-gaming system. Judge Essex, who is overseeing
that case, is scheduled to release his findings on Jan. 23,
according to the ITC’s website.  “Microsoft continues to infringe Motorola Mobility’s
substantial patent portfolio,” the handset maker said in its
statement today. “Motorola Mobility remains confident in its
position and will continue to move forward with its
complaints.”  Barnes & Noble  A trial in Microsoft’s case against Barnes & Noble is
scheduled before Essex in February and involves different
patents. New York-based Barnes & Noble, the largest U.S.
bookstore chain, has accused Microsoft of misusing its patents
to obtain royalties on Android devices, and has asked the U.S.
Justice Department to investigate whether Microsoft is trying to
drive up the cost of Android to push out competition.  Microsoft’s case against Motorola Mobility is In the Matter
of Certain Mobile Devices, Associated Software and Components
Thereof, 337-744, while Motorola Mobility’s case against
Microsoft is In the matter of Gaming and Entertainment Consoles,
337-752, both U.S. International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  