-- IMF Urges European Firewall Around Ireland as Prospects Fragile
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2011-12-20T16:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/imf-urges-a-european-firewall-around-ireland-as-prospects-remain-fragile-.html
Ireland’s European benefactors
should take steps to create a firewall around the nation, as its
prospects remain “fragile” amid the escalating euro-region
debt crisis, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The crisis may hamper Irish economic growth, increase the
cost of re-entering bond markets and make it harder for the
country’s banks to sell off assets, the Washington-based fund
said today in its fourth review of Ireland’s bailout program.  “Stronger European support for Ireland’s recovery would
help sustain fiscal consolidation efforts and reinforce
prospects for program success, with positive spillovers for
European stability,” the IMF said. “By enhancing the
robustness of Ireland’s program, these and other potential steps
would also provide a firewall protecting the euro area against
potential shocks.”  Ireland sought a 67.5 billion euro ($88.5 billion)
international rescue last year, amid concern that the nation’s
banking woes would push it into bankruptcy. With the state
seeking to test bond markets in 2012 after a two-year hiatus,
Ireland’s partners should consider a range of extra measures,
the IMF said.  “The main thing that would be desirable would be to break
this link between the sovereign and the financial system more
effectively than has been done so far,” Craig Beaumont, IMF’s
mission chief for Ireland, said on a call with reporters today.
“The prospects for the program’s success remain positive.”  Stakes  European leaders could help Ireland’s banks tap debt
markets again and return to private ownership through guarantees
for term funding and switching short-term European Central Bank
liquidity for medium-term funding, the IMF said.  In addition, European institutions could take temporary
stakes in the nations’ banks and refinance the state’s capital
injections into the financial system, the IMF said. Beaumont,
who said he wasn’t advocating imposing losses on senior bank
bondholders, said it was too early to say how much such measures
would cost.  In all, the government has pumped about 62 billion euros
into its lenders, after a real-estate crash pushed the banks to
the brink of collapse.  The IMF estimates Ireland’s gross domestic product will
expand by 1 percent next year, compared to the government’s 1.3
percent forecast. The economy will expand 1.1 percent this year,
the IMF said.  Irish bonds due in 2020 yielded 8.52 percent today, down
from 9.83 on Nov. 24 and a euro-era peak of 15.6 percent on July
18.  Debt  The country’s debt outlook improved “on balance” since
its aid partners’ third review, with general government gross
debt expected to fall to 111 percent of GDP by 2016 from a peak
of 118 percent in 2013, the IMF said. The IMF previously
estimated the ratio would be 115 percent in 2016.  The IMF, which is accelerating payments to Ireland in the
first half 2012, said a cut in  interest rates  on the nation’s
European aid and the government’s recent downward revision of
its 2010 debt level helped the debt figure.  “Deepening strains in the euro area have, however,
increased risks to Ireland’s debt sustainability, so prospects
for program success remain fragile despite strong policy
implementation by the Irish authorities,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  