-- In Wall Street’s Back Offices, Loyalty Is Lost: Richard Sennett
-- B y   R i c h a r d   S e n n e t t
-- 2011-12-20T00:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/in-wall-street-s-back-offices-loyalty-is-lost-richard-sennett.html
In the 1970s, my fieldwork as a
young sociologist led me to interview white, working-class
families in  Boston . Our team talked with about 100 families
in a place where factories and shops were organized so that
each person was meant to have a fixed niche and stay in it.
This formal structure had deep roots in the 19th century.  Our team found, however, that strong informal bonds
forged by manual laborers in Boston took them out of their
niches. These relationships were built on three sides of a
sturdy social triangle. On one side, workers extended
grudging respect to decent bosses, who returned equally
grudging respect to reliable employees.  On a second side, workers talked freely with one
another about shared problems, and also covered for co-
workers in trouble, whether that trouble was as small as a
hangover or as big as a divorce. On the third side, when
something went wrong in the shop, people pitched in, doing
extra hours or other people’s jobs.  In other words, the society was based on earned
authority, mutual respect and cooperation during a crisis.
In a factory or office, such a triangle doesn’t transform
work into Eden, but it does replace soullessness with
civility.  Wall Street’s Unemployed  Forty years on, I have been interviewing quite a
different group of workers: back-office, white-collar
workers on Wall Street who lost their  jobs  in the crash of
2008. The sudden jolt that forced them into temporary
unemployment made these bureaucrats, technicians and low-
echelon managers critical of their working lives before the
crash.  The financial industry is a high-stress business that
requires people to work extremely long hours, sacrificing
time for children, spouses and social pleasures. But after
2008, many of my subjects were no longer willing to make
those sacrifices. Looking back, they realized how little
respect they had for the executives who’d worked above
them, how superficial was the trust they had for fellow
workers and, most of all, how weak cooperation proved in
the wake of financial disaster.  The fragility of this social triangle is disturbing.
When informal channels of communication wither, people keep
to themselves ideas about how the organization is really
doing, or guard their own territory. Weak social ties erode
loyalty, which businesses need in good times as well as
bad. Many of the employees I’ve been talking with have come
to feel embittered by the thin, superficial quality of
social ties in places where they spend most of their waking
hours.  In the 1970s, many older American men working on the
factory floor had fought in the Second World War, and many
younger ones had fought in  Vietnam . Military life instilled
in them a two-sided measure of authority. They accepted
that an officer provides the strategy for battle. In fact,
they wanted him to set the strategy, to lead, to direct;
he’s the one who should know what to do. Yet, once the
orders are issued, the officer ought to give troops the
freedom to fight. Micro-managing every shot creates chaos
on the field.  In the Boston factories, when bosses behaved like
petty tyrants, workers who had seen active duty would stand
up to them. But bland, polite foremen were a greater goad;
foremen who shouted and swore and then let people get on
with the job seemed better leaders. The master had to earn
his legitimacy.  Earned Authority  Earned authority manages the everyday experience of
inequality. A boss with earned authority who doesn’t
humiliate can shout and swear, as in the Boston factories,
then let the guys on the shop floor get on with it. Or, in
an office, he can wander quietly from desk to desk. Moments
of anger pass, and though they may temporarily humiliate,
shame also passes.  Informal office discussions can become binding
rituals; they just need to happen regularly. The
discussions may seem trivial, as in when to grease a
machine. But if a workplace is organized so that exchanges
are commonplace, workers know that they are being taken
seriously.  Isolation is the obvious enemy of cooperation. In
management jargon, it’s called the silo effect. Workers in
silos -- defined by rigid, top-down management structures -
- communicate poorly with one another.  On Wall Street, however, I found that isolation is
often self-imposed. Old hands blame it on the advent of
computer work: People stare at their screens rather than
talk to one another. They also say e-mail diminishes
cooperation. “I’d send a message to the girl three work
stations away,” said a woman doing account reconciliation,
“rather than walk over to her.”  One remedy is to encourage teamwork, indeed to impose
it. But enforced cooperation is difficult in a workplace
where many employees are short-term. Teams stay together
for six months to a year, which reflects the shifting
nature of companies’ business plans and their very
identities.  Some business schools and companies now offer coaching
in cooperation. Students and recruits learn to shake hands,
make eye contact and offer succinct contributions to a
discussion. The labor analyst Gideon Kunda has called this
kind of cooperative behavior “deep acting.” Team members
are mainly showing off, and their “feigned solidarity”
collapses easily. When things go wrong, people seek cover
and shift blame.  ‘Guanxi’ Is Forever  This contrasts dramatically with what the Chinese call
“guanxi,” the durable social bonds that exist in their
culture. Guanxi involves much criticism and sharp advice,
rather than studied handshakes, but people realize that, in
speaking directly, others mean to help, not display
themselves as exemplars. Most of all, guanxi is sustained,
not temporary.  A contrasting phenomenon, invidious comparison, is
another factor that can erode social bonds. Invidious
comparison based on competence has a particularly corrosive
effect: It’s hard to have faith in someone you think is
incompetent.  The back-office employees on Wall Street have harbored
little respect for the technical skills of their
executives. In the wake of the crash, the public learned
how little many of the major players in the finance
industry understood about what they were doing.  The back-office workers, even during the boom time,
regarded many company leaders as incompetent. Many even
acted on this judgment through their own investing,
avoiding their superiors’ high-risk gambles -- which they
described in terms such as “fairy gold,” “crap
certificates” and “ junk bonds .”  My informants did single out individual leaders in
investment banks and hedge-fund-management companies who
seemed to them competent and prudent; these executives were
spoken about using their first names, while incompetent
ones were referred to generically as “he,” “she” or “they.”  In the craft of finance, respect is often given to
people who understand the techniques used in the business -
- for example, the algorithms used to generate instruments
such as credit-default swaps. These mathematical generators
are often as impenetrable to the top brass as to the
general public, and the back-office craftsmen notice when
the executive eye glazes over in discussions of
technicalities. “I asked him to outline the algo to me,” a
junior accountant said about her derivatives-trading,
Porsche-driving superior, “and he couldn’t. He took it on
faith.”  Executive Ignorance  Of course, you can’t know everything, even if what you
don’t know is making you whopping rich. Yet executives
often immodestly duck their own ignorance, resorting to
sports talk and other chitchat, rather than try to learn.  The back-office workers said that, in the run-up to
the 2008 crash, their bosses were guilty more of
inattention than raw inability to interpret spreadsheets.
And they found fault not so much with the managers
immediately above them (many of whom also lost their jobs)
as with the people at the top.  These employees were relentless judges of their
bosses, always on the lookout for details of conversation
or behavior to suggest that the executives didn’t deserve
their powers and perks. Such vigilance naturally weakened
the bosses’ earned authority. And it didn’t make the people
judging feel good about themselves either, as they were
stuck in the relationship. On the contrary, it was more
likely to be embittering than a cause for secret
satisfaction.  Even for those workers who have recovered quickly, the
crash isn’t something they are likely to forget. The front
office may want to get back as quickly as possible to the
old regime, to business as usual, but lower down the
institutional ladder, people seem to feel that during the
long boom something was missing in their lives: the
connections and bonds forged at work.  (Richard Sennett, who teaches sociology at  New York
University  and the  London School  of Economics, is the
author of “The Craftsman” and “Practicing Culture.” This in
an excerpt from his new book, “Together: The Rituals,
Pleasures and Politics of Cooperation,” to be published
Jan. 10 by Yale University Press. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Richard Sennett at  Richard.Sennett@nyu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at 
 mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 