-- Gokarn Says Reserve Bank’s Steps Stabilizing Rupee, Promises More Measures
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2011-12-21T07:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/india-s-gokarn-says-rbi-s-steps-stabilizing-rupee-promises-more.html
India ’s rupee, which slumped to a
record low last week, has been “relatively stable” following
steps announced by the central bank, Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said, promising “more measures as the need arises.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India said Dec. 15 that companies can’t
enter into multiple forward contracts to cover a single overseas
transaction. The monetary authority allowed microfinance
companies to raise as much as $10 million from abroad on Dec. 19.
It also eased rules in November for companies to borrow offshore
and sell foreign currencies through swaps, while offering higher
deposit rates for Indians living outside the country.  “These are not the only measures we have,” Gokarn told
reporters in Mumbai yesterday. “There are other measures we can
undertake to bring stability to this market. But for the moment,
clearly some degree of stability has returned, and that’s
important.”  The rupee rose 0.4 percent to 52.6813 per dollar as of
12:46 p.m. in Mumbai, the first gain in three days. That pared
the year’s loss to 15 percent, still  Asia ’s worst performer, as
concerns the European debt crisis will deepen prompted overseas
funds to sell emerging-market assets. The currency also fell on
signs economic growth is slowing and the government may miss its
target of narrowing its  budget deficit  to a four-year low of 4.6
percent of gross domestic product in the 12 months to March 31.  Boosting Supply  Policy makers in India are favoring easing  capital controls 
to boost the supply of dollars rather than outright intervention,
which Gokarn said on Nov. 22 isn’t “an easy judgment.” Foreign
currency reserves dropped $14 billion in the four weeks to Nov.
25, indicating the Reserve Bank sold dollars to stem the rupee’s
slide. Gokarn said the same month that the operation was meant
to “smooth volatility.”  Central banks sell and buy foreign exchange to manage the
value of their local currencies. A decline helps exporters as it
makes their products cheaper in markets abroad, while an
appreciation makes imports less expensive.  Implied volatility on one-month dollar-rupee options, a
gauge of expected exchange-rate swings, rose 160 basis points
this month to 13.5 percent, after touching a 19-month high of
14.3 percent on Dec. 16, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
rupee ended little changed yesterday at 52.89 a dollar. It
plunged to a record low of 54.305 on Dec. 15.  The slump isn’t a sign of “helplessness in dealing with
the kind of global turbulence we are seeing,” Gokarn said on
Dec. 3 in Mumbai.  Overseas Borrowings  India plans to ease restrictions on overseas borrowings and
allow companies to raise dollar loans at higher costs, two
government officials with direct knowledge of the matter said
Dec. 19.  Borrowers can raise funds at an all-in cost of as much as
900 basis points above the  London interbank offered rate  for
foreign-currency debt, compared with an earlier cap of 500 basis
points, the people said, asking not to be identified as they
aren’t authorized to speak on the subject.  Companies that are now allowed to borrow $20 million in a
single financial year with a minimum three-year maturity can
raise as much as $100 million under the new rules, according to
the officials.  Traders overseas are betting the rupee will weaken further.
Offshore forwards indicate it will trade at 54.31 to the dollar
in three months, compared with expectations for a rate of 54.06
on Dec. 19. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  Advance Tax  “The RBI can take more steps and until they do so or the
European crisis is resolved, the rupee will maintain a
depreciating bias,” said Ashtosh Raina, head of  currency
trading  at HDFC Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “I wouldn’t say that
volatility has significantly fallen. In fact, the market has
become more illiquid, so moves are more exaggerated.”  Advance tax payments for the current quarter may have
resulted in an outflow of 690 billion rupees ($13 billion) from
the banking system, and a resulting shortfall in the money
markets may be temporary, Gokarn said yesterday.  “Things will normalize over the next few days,” he said.  The  Reserve Bank of India  last week refrained from raising
 interest rates  for the first time in eight meetings after
inflation slowed to a one-year low and industrial output shrank
for the first time in 28 months. Gokarn declined to say when the
RBI will start cutting borrowing costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  