-- India’s Rupee Little Changed Amid European Debt-Crisis Concern
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2011-12-20T12:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/india-s-rupee-weakens-for-second-day-on-european-crisis-concern.html
India ’s rupee was little changed,
holding this week’s losses, on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
worsen and damp demand for the nation’s assets.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  fell for a fifth day. The
guage sank to a 28-month low after global funds pulled $233
million from Indian stocks last week and $75 million on Monday,
exchange data show. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said yesterday substantial risks to the economy remain and the
law forbids him from increasing government bond purchases to
fight the crisis.  “The European concerns are here to stay until we have
something more concrete from the policy makers there,” said
Vikas Babu, a currency trader at state-owned  Andhra Bank  in
Mumbai. “The market is also quite illiquid as there is no
speculative money, so we have to expect sharp moves.”  The rupee was little changed at 52.89 a dollar in Mumbai,
compared with 52.885 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It has declined 0.3 percent this week after reaching
a record low of 54.3050 on Dec. 15. The currency rallied 1.7
percent on Dec. 16 as the central bank announced measures to
curb speculation.  The  Reserve Bank  of India said last week companies can’t
enter into multiple forward contracts to cover a single overseas
transaction, and allowed microfinance lenders easier access to
overseas funding, according to statements on the monetary
authority’s website. India plans to ease restrictions on
overseas borrowing and allow companies to raise dollar loans at
higher costs, two government officials with direct knowledge of
the matter said yesterday.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 54.27 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations for a
rate of 54.06 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  