-- Indian Fear of Free Markets Is Gift to Globalizing China: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-20T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/indian-fear-of-free-markets-is-gift-to-globalizing-china-view.html
India ’s slowing growth and mounting
resistance to pro-market reforms are putting its 20-year
economic miracle at risk. To extend the past two decades’
success, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and his allies must
maintain their commitment to liberalization and do a better job
of defending it to the public.  Last week, for the first time since the spring, the  Reserve
Bank  of India chose  not to raise   interest rates  at its monthly
policy meeting. The central bank has been trying to bring
inflation, currently about 9 percent, under firmer control.
Weaker growth has made the Reserve Bank pause. The economy
 expanded  at a 6.9 percent annual rate in the third quarter, the
slowest in more than two years. Industrial output in October was
5.1 percent lower than a year before.  Those numbers caused a stir because India has become
accustomed to annual growth of 9 percent. Since the dismantling
of industrial licensing and the Soviet-style planning system in
1991 -- an overhaul that Singh helped design and execute --
India has made a joke of the once-popular notion that the
“ Hindu rate of growth ” was maybe 3 percent a year.  Unfortunately, though Indians now take rapid growth for
granted, they still doubt the policies that are responsible. Too
many voters and politicians continue to view freer markets and
vigorous competition with suspicion, despite their demonstrated
success in accelerating the economy and attacking poverty. Just
as official statisticians were confirming the  growth slowdown ,
Singh, in a major political setback, was forced to suspend plans
to open Indian retailing to foreign investment.  Need to Modernize  Don’t blame slower growth entirely on the weak
international economy or the central bank’s efforts to check
inflation. Unfinished reforms and a failure to modernize India’s
infrastructure are also holding the economy back. Food
distribution, especially, is an undeveloped sector in India,
dominated by small traders and layer upon layer of middlemen.
Lack of technology and modern logistics cause waste on a
notorious scale, with government reports of up to  40 percent  of
fruit and vegetables rotting before being sold. Supply-chain
bottlenecks worsen inflation -- and with hundreds of millions
still in poverty, the country is especially sensitive to food-
price spikes.  Continuing to block investment by Wal-Mart, Tesco and other
international supermarket chains is therefore doubly perverse.
It not only denies India the new investment and modern
technology the country still needs across the board, but holds
back a sector that could directly lower food prices and raise
 living standards .  In  an interview with Bloomberg  last week, Singh said he
will keep trying. He predicted success in letting foreign
companies take majority stakes in Indian retailers once regional
elections have been held early next year and slower inflation
bolsters his government’s standing.  It might take more than that. Singh’s Congress Party-led
coalition lacks a secure parliamentary majority and has seen its
energy sapped by corruption scandals. It was losing momentum,
and Singh’s leadership was being questioned even before the
economy slowed. The main opposition group, the Hindu-nationalist
 Bharatiya Janata Party,  was once pro-reform but now sees
opportunity in rallying small traders, fearful of foreign
investment, to its side. The political winds are blowing in an
unpromising direction.  It would be hard to exaggerate how much is at stake -- and
not just because India is home to 1.2 billion people. This
latest of many setbacks to modernizing  India’s economy  revives
an old question about the country’s longer-term prospects: In
its keen economic rivalry with  China , is its vibrant democracy
an asset or a liability?  Indian Ambivalence  During the past 20 years, India has shown that democracy,
bold economic reform and staggering rates of economic progress
can go hand in hand. Meanwhile China’s uncertain political
future remains, for many economic analysts, a major risk. It
would be nothing less than a tragedy if India’s ambivalence
about capitalism, and over reforms that have served it so well,
handed victory in this race to its authoritarian rival.  Democratic countries cannot easily have reform imposed upon
them. They can be persuaded, though, that reform is in their
interests, so long as their leaders rise to the challenge.
 Manmohan Singh , one of the great liberal reformers in the
history of the modern world, has little to prove in this regard.
His allies, his rivals, and voters at large, however, all need
to ask themselves whether they sincerely want India to succeed.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  