-- Indonesia Stocks: Boreno Lumbung, Indocement, Garuda Indonesia
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2011-12-20T09:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/indonesia-stock-movers-bank-central-asia-garuda-indonesia.html
Shares of the following companies
had  unusual (JCI)  moves in Indonesian trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of the close in Jakarta.  The Jakarta Composite index fell 0.5 percent to 3,752.34,
declining for the first time in three days.  Cement producers:  PT Indocement Tunggal Prakarsa (INTP)  ,
the nation’s second-largest cement producer, rose 0.9 percent to
16,300 rupiah and  PT Holcim Indonesia (SMCB)  , the third
biggest, increased 1.1 percent to 2,200 rupiah. The medium-term
outlook for  Indonesia ’s buidling materials industry will improve
after the nation’s parliament passed a land acquisition bill
last week, Helmy Kristanto, a Jakarta-based analyst at BNP
Paribas SA wrote in a note.  PT Borneo Lumbung Energi & Metal (BORN)  , a coal
producer, lost 2.4 percent to 800 rupiah, the most since Nov.
25. Standard Chartered Plc will delay the financial closing and
funding of $1 billion in loans for Borneo Lumbung until the new
year as the company waits on certain approvals from Indonesia’s
capital markets regulator, according to a person familiar with
the matter. Borneo Lumbung is buying a stake in coal producer
Bumi Plc from  PT Bakrie & Brothers (BNBR)  for $1 billion cash and said
last month it will use a $1 billion loan from Standard Chartered
to fund the acquisition.  PT Garuda Indonesia  (GIAA IJ), the state-owned carrier,
surged 13 percent to 480 rupiah, the steepest gain since its
February listing debut. Garuda allocated $5.3 billion for
 capital expenditures  over five years for its fleet, Chief
Financial Officer Elisa Lumbantoruan said. The company expects
passenger traffic to rise 20 percent in 2012 from an estimated
17 million people this year, Lumbantoruan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  