-- Myhrvold: Invention Is the Mother of Economic Growth
-- B y   N a t h a n   M y h r v o l d
-- 2011-12-20T00:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/invention-is-the-mother-of-economic-growth-nathan-myhrvold.html
One reason “dismal science” aptly
describes economics is that it so often winds up in a zero-sum
trade-off of diminishing returns. That gets depressing when the
global economy is in a sorry state, as it is now.  Most economists gloomily advise us to just tough it out. No
magical solution can save us.  I submit that the situation is not as bleak as it seems.
Yes,  Virginia , there is a magical engine for economic growth. It
is invention -- the process by which the human mind creates new
ideas with practical consequences. Invention is magical because
the magnitude of the output can exceed by almost infinite
measure the magnitude of the inputs. A single great idea can
generate enormous transformations, economic and otherwise.  Unlike almost all other forms of human economic activity,
inventing is not limited by a law of diminishing returns. It
comes with no dismal trade-offs.  Invention and its weaker cousin, innovation, are ultimately
the source of all wealth and luxuries. In the age of Kindles and
smartphones, we are surrounded by obviously invented products.
But “traditional” society, too, was built by the accumulation of
past inventions. Earth now supports 7 billion humans only
because our ancestors invented agriculture -- and subsequent
inventors continually improved it century after century. We live
far longer and better lives than our great-grandparents did
because clever doctors invented medicines, therapies and public-
health measures. The invention of steel and concrete built our
world, and the invention of democracy governs it.  Economic Pulse  The economy of the world is not based on the simple
interplay of capital and labor. Sure, these are involved. But
they are secondary characteristics, not fundamental ones.
Macroeconomists are often said to have their fingers on the
pulse of the economy, and that’s an apt analogy. A pulse is a
decent secondary indicator of life because blood flow is one
prerequisite for the body’s survival. But the pulse is a weak
and incomplete measure of life. A brain-dead patient, after all,
may have a pulse even though the person’s life is over.
Conversely, a machine can drive a pulse without giving life.  So while it’s all well and good to measure the flow of
capital and the markets for labor, don’t mistake this data for
the forces that really drive growth, which are inventions (or,
if you prefer, ideas) and the ways that they are made real. In
response to these forces, capital is deployed and labor is
expended.  Physics is obsessed with conservation laws; mass and energy
can be neither created nor destroyed. Economics, on the other
hand, obsesses about growth and recession, in which economic
value is explicitly created and destroyed. Invention is,
directly or indirectly, a primary source of the value we call
growth.  Yet economists give invention short shrift. That is partly
because they are still hazy about the origin of inventions. I
find talking to economists about invention’s role in the economy
a bit like talking to fourth graders about where children come
from. A smart fourth grader can tell you all about how kids
progress through elementary school. They can even tell you about
infants, and that mommy’s belly gets big before one appears. But
how and why the spark of conception occurs may be a mystery.  Economists similarly expend great effort documenting the
development of products. A few can tell you what inventions look
like in their infancy, but even these experts don’t yet
understand the spark of inventive conception.  Invention is also frequently overlooked where its role is
subtle. In some parts of the world, new ideas arrive slowly and
mainly by importation, but they still have great impact.
Subsistence farming in  Africa , for example, may not seem to be
an invention-related activity, but it is. Three key inventions -
- corn in Mesoamerica; the process of cultivating and
detoxifying cassava in  South America ; and pastoral cow herding
in Central Asia -- feed much of Africa. Those inventions were
imported and adapted long ago, and African subsistence farmers
couldn’t survive today without them.  Power of Invention  Moreover, that the poorer parts of the world have adopted
so few new ideas isn’t just a symptom of the economic problems
there -- it is the root cause.  It’s interesting to look back at 19th-century America to
see the transformative power of invention. Back then, the U.S.
was considered a lawless, developing country of subsistence
farmers. Early in the century, the country became embroiled in
war with the greatest power of the time, and half a century
later it got tangled up in a brutal civil war. American
government could be deeply corrupt (think of Tammany Hall in  New
York City ), and its state of development ranged crazily from
European-influenced  Manhattan  to the anarchic Wild West. Alexis de
Tocqueville, who toured America at the time, shook his head at
horrible urban slums, sweatshop child labor, slavery and
persecution (or worse) of the indigenous population.  At its best, America in the 19th century was like  Brazil 
today, although in many ways Brazil is far more civil and
sophisticated. At its worst, 19th-century America was the heart
of darkness.  And yet it was during this time that the U.S. became the
world’s greatest inventing nation. Samuel Morse helped create the
telegraph; Eli Whitney, the cotton gin; and Thomas Edison, the light
bulb, phonograph and movies.  Europe  remained the center of
learning, culture, technology and industrial prowess, but within
several generations, Europe found itself relying on the U.S. for
high-tech inventions.  Talented inventors the world over flocked to the new hotbed
of creativity -- Alexander Graham Bell from  Canada , Nikola Tesla and Charles
Steinmetz from Europe, among many others. It was a stunning
transformation. Imagine Brazil suddenly becoming the world’s
leading source of new technology, and you get the idea.  If inventing is the driver of economic growth, then it
follows that those regions fostering the creation and
exploitation of new inventions will enjoy prosperity. The poster
child for this phenomenon is Silicon Valley, where academic and
commercial inventors, assisted by venture capitalists and other
supporting players, nurture the most dynamic environment in the
world for generating businesses.  Silicon Valley  What we now call Silicon Valley had origins as inauspicious
as those of the U.S. more broadly. A sleepy agricultural area
with no industrial or business base worth mentioning, its most
notable asset was a university set up by Leland Stanford, a 19th-
century robber baron. And even that wasn’t unique: public
universities grace every state, and private universities dot the
landscape, yet none has fostered an invention engine like
Silicon Valley.  So, why did this area, and America more broadly, succeed in
creating invention-friendly climates when others failed? The
secret remains maddeningly elusive. The track record of other
places that have tried to set up their own versions of Silicon
Valley -- and there are many -- is poor. Policy makers have
pulled all the levers they have, from lower tax rates to
favorable zoning laws to research-and-development support, but
none of these really sparks invention. These incentives may
attract big companies, startups and  venture capital , all of
which are ingredients in an invention-based ecosystem, but
they’re not sufficient to stimulate the magic.  I’d like to report that someone has figured out a formula
for harnessing the power of invention. Alas, that is not the
case. If someone can, it would be, in many respects, one of the
most important inventions in history because it would allow us
to craft the economy we want.  ( Nathan Myhrvold , the former chief strategist and chief
technology officer at Microsoft Corp. and the founder and chief
executive officer of  Intellectual Ventures , is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Nathan Myhrvold at  nathanmyhrvold@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  