-- Lira Rebounds From Record Low on Biggest Dollar Sale in 2 Months
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2011-12-20T17:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/lira-rebounds-from-record-low-on-central-bank-dollar-sale-bets.html
The lira rebounded from a record low
closing level yesterday after the central bank sold the largest
amount of dollars since Oct. 24 and offered to sell as much as
$1.7 billion in the next two days to stem the currency’s fall.  The lira strengthened 1.1 percent at 1.8846 per dollar at
5:59 p.m. in Istanbul in its biggest rally this month after the
bank sold $350 million, the maximum it offered to sell today.
Bids in the auction were for $608 million. The bank also offered
to sell a maximum of $1.7 billion over Dec. 21 and Dec. 22.  “Such a severe depreciation poses great inflation risks,”
Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments.  The currency reached a historic low at the end of trading
yesterday, closing past the 1.9 threshold, after the central
bank sold $100 million from an offer of as much as $150 million.
The bank has sold about $10.2 billion since August to shore up
the lira and contain inflation.  The lira lost 18 percent this year, the second worst
performance among more than 20 emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The central bank has kept the benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low.  Turkey ’s widening  current-account
deficit  has compunded worries emanating from the European debt
crisis and dented investor confidence in the country’s financial
stability.  “The central bank now has to live up to the expectations
and continue to sell relatively high amounts until year end,
otherwise I would assume investors to be disappointed again,
which would put pressure on the lira,” said Nguyen.  Yields  on two-year benchmark debt jumped two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 10.48 percent, a Royal Bank of
Scotland index of the securities showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  