-- Iraq Vice President Al-Hashimi Denies Charges After Arrest Warrant Issued
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2011-12-20T14:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/iraqi-vice-president-leaves-baghdad-after-warrant-is-issued-for-his-arrest.html
Iraqi Vice President Tariq al- Hashimi denied charges of terrorism and said he is ready to
testify in his defense after the country’s top court issued an
arrest warrant and barred him from travel.  “I have been rewarded for my eight years of work with what
you heard,” al-Hashimi said today in a televised news
conference in Erbil, capital of the semi-autonomous Kurdistan
region, referring to the arrest warrant. He questioned the
motivation and timing of the accusations, which come as U.S.
troops leave  Iraq , and said he wants to be tried in Erbil.  Al-Hashimi left Baghdad for Erbil after security forces
searched his home and office late yesterday in the capital’s so-
called Green Zone and arrested some staff members, according to
a person close to the vice president who asked not to be
identified because he isn’t authorized to speak to the press.  The arrest warrant marks an escalation of tensions between
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki’s Shiite Muslim-led allies and
Sunni Muslim politicians, such as al-Hashimi, who have been at
odds for more than a year over the formation of a unity
government. The leader of Kurdistan, Massoud Barzani, has called
for urgent talks to avoid the collapse of the political process.  “The situation is getting more complicated,” Barzani said
in a statement late yesterday. “I call upon all powers to
reconcile and to be tolerant and review their adamant stances.”  Call for Talks  After al-Hashimi spoke, Iraqi government spokesman Ali al- Dabbagh issued a statement also calling for talks. He said the
cabinet was inviting President Jalal Talabani, a Kurd, and the
leaders of the various political blocs to discuss developments.  “The political bickering has turned into political war,”
said Kadhim al-Miqdad, a Baghdad-based political analyst and
university professor in an interview. “After the U.S. pullout
there are some influential powers who want to fill the vacuum.”  The front page of today’s Al-Bayan newspaper carries a
 photo of al-Hashimi  framed in red banners bearing the word
“WANTED” in English and Arabic. The paper is run by a lawmaker
from al-Maliki’s Dawa party, Yaseen Majeed, who is close to the
prime minister.  Three of al-Hashimi’s bodyguards were arrested and their
alleged confessions aired on state-run al-Iraqiya television
yesterday. They said they committed murder at the vice-
president’s request and were paid in dollars for their services.
Al-Hashimi said the confessions were fabricated.  Baghdad  security spokesman Qassim Atta al-Mousawi said the
security forces “are committed” to arresting al-Hashimi “in
all areas of the country, without exception.”  Paralysis Predicted  Political analyst al-Miqdad said he expects the infighting
to paralyze Iraq, holder of the world’s fifth-largest crude
reserves, as it seeks investment and expertise to help boost
energy exports and rebuild an economy and infrastructure
destroyed by war, sanctions and sabotage.  “There will be, of course, a delaying of the parliament
sessions and this would affect all the future laws that need to
be legislated,” al-Miqdad said in an interview. This crisis
“will affect investment and internal security,” he said.  Already, one of Iraq’s largest political blocs, former
Prime Minister  Ayad Allawi ’s Iraqiya coalition, has suspended
its participation in parliament until after lawmakers come back
from recess on Jan. 3. Iraqiya, which campaigned on a non-
sectarian platform in the last elections, drew support from
Sunnis, who represent a fifth of the population.  Iraqiya announced the boycott on Dec. 17, saying it is
protesting the arrest of its members. A day later, al-Maliki
asked lawmakers to issue a vote of no confidence in his deputy,
Saleh al-Mutlaq, a member of Iraqiya, who compared al-Maliki to
a dictator in a recent television interview.  Talabani said in a statement that he was surprised by the
broadcast of the alleged confessions and the arrest warrant. He
said the parties concerned had held talks and agreed not to
proceed in this manner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad through the Dubai newsroom at 
   kalansari@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 