-- Italy Seeks to Raise Cash From Frequencies Amid Debt Crisis
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2011-12-20T08:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/italy-seeks-to-raise-cash-from-tv-frequencies-amid-debt-crisis.html
Italy, fighting to reduce borrowing
costs amid  Europe ’s debt crisis, may raise more than 2 billion
euros ($2.6 billion) from the sale of television frequencies.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s administration withdrew plans
last week to assign six digital frequencies for free after
consumer and industry groups called on the government to sell
the spectrum to the highest bidders. A sale could bring in about
2.4 billion euros, said  Antonio Sassano , a professor of
operations research at the University of Rome La Sapienza.  “It doesn’t make any sense to give away for free scarce
resources such as frequencies, especially in light of the
financial troubles Italy’s in,” Dino Bortolotto, head of
 Assoprovider , which represents about 200 small and medium-sized
telecommunications and Internet companies, said in an interview.
The group had filed a complaint to the State Auditor against
 Italy ’s original plan to give away the frequencies for free.  Monti won broad backing Dec. 16 for his 30 billion-euro
emergency budget in the Parliament’s lower house, setting up
final approval by the Senate this week of his plan to protect
Italy from the spread of the euro debt crisis and bring down
record borrowing costs. The plan’s measures include an overhaul
of the pension system, a new property tax on primary residences
and a levy on capital repatriated in tax amnesties.  Make Sacrifices  Fitch Ratings  lowered  France ’s credit outlook and put other
euro-area nations on review Dec. 16, saying an overall crisis
solution may be “technically and politically beyond reach.”
Italy’s benchmark 10-year bond yield returned yesterday above 7
percent, the level that led  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland to seek
bailouts, before falling below the threshold.  “As we ask Italians to make sacrifices, it’s intolerable
to think that we can give away a state asset for free,”
Economic Development Minister  Corrado Passera  said in a Dec. 18
interview on state-run RAI television. He didn’t elaborate on
whether a bidding process will be used, saying “it may even be
a different thing, we have to find new ways” to assign the
frequencies.  An auction “could be a Big Bang for Italy’s TV industry
and finally open it up to real competition,” Tommaso Valletti,
a professor of economics at  London ’s Imperial College, said.  ‘Degree of Unfairness’  Italy raised 3.95 billion euros in September by selling
frequencies for so-called long-term evolution, or LTE
technology. Valletti said that too many frequencies have been
allotted to TV broadcasters compared with other uses such as
mobile broadband. Options being considered by the government
include reducing the frequencies to be assigned to broadcasters
and increasing those for mobile phone companies looking for more
spectrum, daily la Repubblica reported yesterday.  Former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  originally planned
to stage a so-called beauty contest aimed at boosting
competition in a country where the free-to-air TV market has few
players. RAI and  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the broadcaster controlled by
Berlusconi, got about 80 percent of the advertising spending on
TV in 2010, according to the communications regulator.  The beauty contest rules allowed the spectrum to be awarded
for 20 years and companies would have had the option to sell it
after five years, said Sassano, the Rome University professor.  “Twenty years is far too long with the pace of
technological innovation and it’s unthinkable that broadcasters
who got the frequencies for free may sell them at a high price
after a few years.”  Mediaset rose 0.9 percent to 1.995 euros as of 9:21 a.m. in
Milan trading, giving it a market value of 2.36 billion euros.
The stock fell 3.2 percent yesterday after the government
backtracked on its plan to give away the frequencies.  ‘Constructive Debate’  Rupert Murdoch ’s satellite broadcaster Sky Italia Srl last
month said it was withdrawing from the frequency contest, citing
the excessive length of the process, the uncertain timing and
“controversial” elements in the regulation which “clearly
favor” operators already in the market. Sky Italia CEO Andrea
Zappia said at the time that he hoped the decision would
“provide the impetus for an open and constructive debate” on
the future of TV in the country.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  Chairman Franco Bernabe said that if
there were an auction for the TV frequencies, it would “be
deserted.” The country’s biggest phone company controls  Telecom
Italia Media SpA (TME) , which owns the La7 TV channel. Mediaset will
“probably not make any offer because the costs for the few
remaining frequencies are high,” Berlusconi said last week. A
Mediaset spokeswoman declined to comment.  “If no one is ready to pay for the spectrum, let’s give
free access to everyone who needs it, not just a few privileged
ones,” Assoprovider’s Bortolotto said.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 