-- Italy Banks Said to Use State-Backed Bonds for ECB Loans
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2011-12-21T20:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/italian-banks-are-said-to-use-state-guaranteed-bonds-to-receive-ecb-loans.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP)  are among Italian banks that used bonds guaranteed by  Italy 
as collateral to obtain loans from the  European Central Bank  at
today’s auction, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Italian banks issued about 40 billion euros ($52 billion)
in state-backed bonds, the Italian exchange said in a  filing 
yesterday. UniCredit issued 7.5 billion euros of the bonds and
Intesa Sanpaolo created 12 billion euros of notes maturing in
March. The bonds were to be used as collateral for the ECB
auction, two people familiar with the situation said yesterday.  Italy’s biggest lenders met Italian Deputy Finance Minister
 Vittorio Grilli  yesterday to define the terms of the
transaction, said the people, who asked not be named because the
talks are private. The Treasury agreed to back the bonds, which
the banks will keep on their books, using rules introduced by
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  two weeks ago, the people said.  The plan, which is part of a law approved Dec. 4, allows
the  Treasury to offer guarantees  for bonds issued by banks in
order to give them more access to ECB liquidity, an effort to
lower funding costs. The debt crisis has increased the risk of
Italy’s sovereign debt, driving up the cost of credit.  ‘Liquidity Concerns’  The Frankfurt-based ECB awarded 489 billion euros in 1,134-
day loans, more than economists’ median estimate of 293 billion
euros in a Bloomberg News survey. The ECB said 523 banks asked
for the funds, which will be lent at the average of its
 benchmark rate  -- currently 1 percent -- over the period of the
loans. They start tomorrow.  “This ECB facility will likely smooth the short-term
liquidity concerns,” analysts at Fidentiis equity wrote in a
note to clients today. “Still we remain fairly negative on
Italian banks on concerns about the Italian unsustainable
debt/GDP ratio.”  Italian banks borrowed 116 billion euros from the ECB
today, according to a person with direct knowledge of the loans
who wasn’t authorized to discuss them publicly. Reuters reported
the amount earlier.  The central bank yesterday invited lenders in the euro
region to place orders for its first tranche of unlimited three-
year loans, an attempt to keep credit flowing to the 17-nation
economy. The ECB is lending banks as much as they ask for and
has widened the pool of collateral they can use to secure the
funds.  Unlimited Funds  ECB President  Mario Draghi  announced the plan to offer
lenders unlimited funds for three years after the central bank’s
policy meeting on Dec. 8.  Officials at UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo, who asked not
to be named in keeping with company policy, declined to comment.
A spokeswoman for the Treasury also declined to comment.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  issued 10 billion euros
of state-backed bonds, Banco Popolare 3 billion euros and the
Italian unit of Dexia SA 1.05 billion euros.  UniCredit rose 0.3 percent to 74 euro cents at noon in
Milan. The shares have fallen 52 percent this year. Intesa
Sanpaolo climbed 4.4 percent to 1.35 euros and has dropped 32
percent in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  