-- Liverpool Supports Suarez After Eight-Match Ban for Racially Abusing Evra
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2011-12-21T00:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/liverpool-striker-suarez-gets-eight-game-ban-for-racially-abusing-evra.html
Liverpool said it remains convinced
of Luis Suarez’s innocence after the Uruguayan striker was given
an eight-match ban by English soccer’s governing body for
racially abusing Manchester United’s Patrice Evra.  Suarez was found guilty of misconduct and warned about his
future behavior for using “insulting words” toward Evra during
an Oct. 15 Premier League game, including a reference to the
Senegal-born defender’s color, the  Football Association said 
last night. Suarez, who also was fined 40,000 pounds ($63,700),
has denied the allegation.  Liverpool said in a  statement  that it was “very surprised
and disappointed” at the decision, which was handed down by the
F.A.’s Independent Regulatory Commission. The club said it will
provide Suarez “with whatever support he now needs to clear his
name.” He has 14 days to appeal.  “It is our strong held belief, having gone over the facts
of the case, that Luis Suarez did not commit any racist act,”
Liverpool said on its website. “It is also our opinion that the
accusation by this particular player was not credible.”  Suarez’s punishment, which is suspended pending any appeal,
followed a six-day hearing to consider misconduct charges
against him after the F.A. acted on a complaint from Evra. The
French defender complained to the referee after the match at
Liverpool’s Anfield stadium and later told  France ’s Canal Plus
television that Suarez had abused him at least 10 times.  Suarez, who faces a separate F.A. charge over an alleged
abusive hand gesture in a Dec. 5 Premier League game, had based
his defense on cultural differences, the British Broadcasting
Corp. reported, saying he was unaware that language that is
acceptable in  Uruguay  is viewed as racist in  Europe .  ‘Painful Day’  “Today is a very difficult and painful day for me and my
family,” Suarez wrote in a  Twitter message . “Thanks for all
the support. I’ll keep working.”  Suarez, 24, has scored 12 goals in 32 appearances for
Liverpool since joining the team in January on a 5 1/2-year
contract after four years in the Netherlands with Groningen and
Ajax.  Liverpool said it “finds it extraordinary” that Suarez
could have been found guilty on Evra’s word alone and will study
the commission’s full ruling before deciding its next course of
action. The club added that its player may have been prejudged.  “It appears to us that the F.A. were determined to bring
charges against  Luis Suarez , even before interviewing him at the
beginning of November,” Liverpool said. “Nothing we have heard
in the course of the hearing has changed our view that Luis
Suarez is innocent of the charges brought against him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  