-- JA Solar Surges After Announcing High-Efficiency Solar Cells
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2011-12-20T22:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/ja-solar-surges-after-announcing-high-efficiency-solar-cells.html
JA Solar Holdings Co. (JASO) , the world’s
largest solar-cell maker, jumped the most in three weeks after
announcing a product that converts as much as 18.5 percent of
the sun’s energy into electricity.  JA Solar’s American depositary receipts climbed 14 percent
to $1.40 at the close in New York, the biggest increase since
Nov. 30. It was the third-largest gain among the 37 companies in
the Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index, which rose 4.4 percent
today. The company’s ADRs have dropped 80 percent this year.
Each ADR is worth one ordinary share of Shanghai-based JA Solar.  The company is producing Maple multicrystalline cells “in
large volume production,” it said today in a statement. Maple’s
conversion efficiency tops the industry average of 16.8 percent
for multicrystalline cells, JA Solar said.  “It’s a nice milestone,” said  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst
for Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston. High-efficiency
products “certainly have an advantage, everything else being
equal. It’s definitely an important factor for residential
rooftops.”  SunPower Corp. , the second-largest U.S. panel manufacturer,
makes the most efficient solar cells. Its products convert at
least 22.4 percent of the energy in sunlight into electricity
and have reached 24.2 percent in lab tests, Helen Kendrick, a
company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Conversion rates matter more for residential projects,
where efficient panels can generate more power in less space,
than for large, utility-scale plants, Molchanov said. “If
you’re building a solar farm in the  Mojave Desert , saving a few
acres of land is not going to be all that crucial.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  