-- James Murdoch Agreed Hacking Meeting Before ‘Nightmare’ E-Mail
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-12-20T17:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/james-murdoch-agreed-hacking-meeting-before-nightmare-e-mail.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Deputy Chief Operating
Officer  James Murdoch , who said he wasn’t told in 2008 that
phone hacking was widespread at the News of the World, agreed to
more than one meeting at that time with the tabloid’s editor
 Colin Myler  in advance of a settlement.  Myler asked for a meeting with Murdoch in May 2008, earlier
than he initially revealed, according to an e-mail released by
U.K. lawmakers today who are investigating how News Corp.’s
British unit resolved phone-hacking cases. News Corp.
spokeswoman Miranda Higham declined to comment.  Murdoch told lawmakers last month that the editor failed to
tell him in 2008 that phone hacking at the now-defunct tabloid
was common. Myler and the newspaper’s lawyer Tom Crone have
repeatedly insisted that they discussed evidence with Murdoch.
Crone said last week that Murdoch was aware of documents related
to phone hacking by the time of the second meeting in June.  “I’m pretty sure I held up the front page of the e-mail,”
Crone told an inquiry into press standards that was created in
response to the phone-hacking scandal. “I’m also pretty sure
that he already knew about it.”  On June 7, 2008, Murdoch had received an e-mail that
described the “nightmare scenario” that phone hacking went
beyond a single reporter at the News of the World tabloid,
according to documents released last week. The e-mail from Myler
was sent in advance of a meeting three days later where they
discussed the settlement of a case brought by  Gordon Taylor ,
chief executive officer of the Professional Footballers’
Association, whose phone was hacked.  Lost Data  Murdoch said last week that he reviewed the June 7 e-mail
for two minutes on a Saturday when he was not in the office. He
reiterated that he was not aware of evidence of widespread
wrongdoing or the need for further investigation.  Revelations that the News of the World hacked into phones
of celebrities, politicians and murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler 
led to the closing of the 168-year-old tabloid.  News Corp.’s investigations panel also said today that some
electronic records from the British newspaper unit had been
lost, according to the documents released by U.K. lawmakers.
Linklaters LLP, the company’s lawyers, have hired
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Stroz Friedberg LLC to recover
the lost data.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  