-- Japan Exports Fall a Second Month as BOJ Sees Weakness on Europe: Economy
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2011-12-21T08:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/japan-exports-fall-as-yen-european-woes-slow-recovery-1-.html
Japan ’s exports fell and the central
bank lowered its assessment of the economy for a second straight
month as weakening demand in Europe and Asia weigh on the
outlook for global growth.  Shipments  dropped a more-than-expected 4.5 percent in
November from a year earlier, a Ministry of Finance report
showed today in Tokyo. The Bank of Japan separately kept its
asset-buying fund and credit-lending program unchanged, even as
it said that a pick-up in activity has paused.  “Pressure on the BOJ to consider further easing is
surging,” said  Naomi Hasegawa , a strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley in Tokyo. “Exports are losing steam.’”  Japanese manufacturers are cutting profit and spending
forecasts as a yen near a postwar record against the dollar
erodes confidence in the recovery from a March 11 earthquake and
tsunami. The nation’s credit rating was lowered one step from
the top AAA grade by Rating & Investment Information Inc. today,
citing delays in overhauling social security financing.  The median estimate of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a 4.3 percent decline in exports. In October,
shipments slid a revised 3.8 percent. The central bank said
today that activity in the world’s third-biggest economy will
“remain more or less flat for the time being.”  Asset Fund  The central bank kept its asset-buying fund at 20 trillion
yen ($257 billion), and a credit-lending program at 35 trillion
yen. The benchmark  interest rate  stayed at a range of zero to
0.1 percent. The unanimous decisions were in line with
predictions of all 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Europe’s crisis ’’is already starting to affect Japan’s
exports and production,’’ Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said in Tokyo today. “We must continue to pay due
attention to the possibility that the problem will weaken the
growth of the world economy as well as the Japanese economy.”  Shirakawa said it’s hard to specify when the Japanese
economy will return to a moderate recovery.  Meantime, Japan’s government left its economic assessment
unchanged for the second straight month, a Cabinet Office report
showed today. It said the economy is slowly picking up from
March’s disaster with businesses exercising caution because of
the yen’s appreciation and the European debt crisis.  Japan’s trade deficit widened to 684.7 billion yen in
November from a revised 280.2 billion yen in October, today’s
figures showed. Exports to  Asia  fell 8 percent while shipments
to  China  declined 7.9 percent, according to the Ministry of
Finance. Overseas sales to the U.S. rose 2 percent in November.  Asian Growth  The figures “reflect the weak fundamentals of the Asia
economy, especially China,” said  Takuji Okubo , chief Japan
economist at Societe Generale Securities in Tokyo. “Momentum in
Asia is still downward, while the  U.S. economy  seems to have
accelerated in the fourth quarter.”  Asian stocks rose for a second day, with a benchmark index
poised for the biggest gain in two weeks, after U.S. housing
starts increased more than economists forecast.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  advanced 2.1 percent as of 3:25
p.m. in  Hong Kong . The gauge dropped to a three-week low on Dec.
19 after North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  died and  Fitch Ratings 
said it may cut the credit ratings of European nations.  Other reports in the Asia-Pacific region today showed New
Zealand’s current-account deficit widened as a share of the
economy. The shortfall was 4.3 percent of gross domestic product
in the year ended Sept. 30, from 3.7 percent in the 12 months
through June,  Statistics New Zealand  said in Wellington.  In Europe in the day ahead, a report may show Italy’s
economy contracted 0.2 percent in the third quarter from the
April-June period and Swedish consumer confidence deteriorated
this month, according to median estimates of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Home Sales  In the U.S., a National Association of Realtors report may
show sales of existing homes increased to a 5.05 million annual
rate in November, a separate survey of forecasts showed, from a
4.97 million pace a month earlier.  Builders in the U.S. broke ground in November on more
houses than at any time in the past 19 months, led by a surge in
multifamily units, Commerce Department figures released
yesterday in  Washington  showed.  Starts increased 9.3 percent to a 685,000 annual rate,
exceeding the highest estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and the most since April 2010.  Japan’s currency is seen by investors as a haven from the
turmoil in  Europe . The crisis in the euro region, Japan’s third-
biggest export market, is “escalating,”  Christine Lagarde , the
managing director of the  International Monetary Fund , said last
week.  Yen’s Gains  Fitch Ratings lowered the credit outlook of AAA-rated
France on Dec. 17, citing Europe’s inability to find a
comprehensive solution to its debt crisis.  With the Japanese currency close to a postwar high against
the dollar, exporters are calling on the government to intervene
again in the  currency markets .  The yen touched 100.76 per euro on Oct. 4, the strongest
since June 2001 and was at 77.87 to the  U.S. dollar  as of 10:49
a.m. The yen has gained 7.6 percent in the past 12 months
against the U.S. dollar, making it the strongest performer among
the Group of 10 currencies for the period.  Nissan’s Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said last
month that Japan’s second-largest carmaker will gradually shift
production overseas to counter the strength of the yen. It’s
“difficult to make an investment in a country with no return,”
he said. “The yen is a huge handicap for exporters.”  The government said yesterday that Japan will expand funds
for currency intervention in its fourth supplementary budget for
the current fiscal year. Authorities sold a record amount of yen
in the month from Oct. 28, Finance Ministry data show.  A central bank report last week indicated Japan’s largest
manufacturers were bracing for a slowdown as sentiment fell from
three months ago and companies pared their profit and capital
spending forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  