-- Topix Index Rebounds From Decline After Kim Jong Il’s Death
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2011-12-20T07:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/japan-s-topix-rises-first-time-in-6-days-as-shipping-lines-gain.html
     Dec. 20 (Bloomberg) --　 Japan ’s  Topix  index snapped a five-
day losing streak, rebounding after Asian markets plunged
yesterday amid concern the death of North Korea’s  Kim Jong Il 
could destabilize the region.  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. (9104)  led gains among shipping companies,
Japan’s worst performing industry this year.  Inpex Corp. (1662)  climbed
3 percent after Credit Suisse Group AG raised its price target
for the country’s No. 1 energy explorer.  Olympus Corp. (7733)  jumped 16
percent after a report Sony Corp. and Fujifilm Holdings Corp.
are among companies that may consider investing in the scandal-
hit camera-maker.  The  Topix (TPX)  added 0.3 percent to 718.49 at the 3 p.m. trading
close in Tokyo, snapping the longest losing streak since Aug. 9.
The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 0.5 percent to 8,336.48. South
Korea’s Kospi Index gained 0.9 percent, trimming yesterday’s 3.4
percent loss.  “The market is making up yesterday’s losses after Kim Jong
Il’s death,” said Takashi Hiroki, chief strategist at Monex
Securities in Tokyo. “This shows that Kim Jong Il’s death isn’t
going to have that big of an impact.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent
today. The index fell 1.2 percent in New York yesterday after
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the bank’s
founding treaty prevents it from buying more  government bonds  to
fight the debt crisis.  ‘Nuclear Weapons State’  Markets from Seoul to  Hong Kong  dropped yesterday after the
death of the North Korean dictator raised concern his successor,
Jong Il’s little-known son, Kim Jong Un, might harden the
regime’s confrontational stance.  North Korea  has conducted
underground nuclear tests twice in the last five years and its
government-run media has reported it will become “a full
nuclear weapons state” next year.  “I don’t think North Korea will do anything right after
the leader’s death,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , Tokyo-based chief
strategist at Toyota Asset Management Co., which oversees the
equivalent of $24 billion. “I don’t think they’re going to do
anything too bold.”  The value of shares traded  on the Topix index fell to 677
billion yen today, the lowest since December 2008, and the
number of shares changing hands was a third below the 100-day
average. There are seven trading days left in 2011, set to be
the worst year for the gauge since 2008. The index has fallen 21
percent since January amid natural disasters at home and in
Thailand and as  Europe ’s debt crisis weighs on export demand and
investor confidence.  March 11  The impact of Japan’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami has
largely decided the Topix’s biggest  winners and losers  this year.
 Tokyo  Electric Power Co., owner of the Fukushima nuclear power
plant destroyed in the disaster, dropped 88 percent, the gauge’s
biggest decline. SxL Corp., a builder that has benefited from
reconstruction work, surged 264 percent.  The Topix rose today after Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  predicted moderate economic growth in
the U.S. next year. The world’s biggest economy will expand 2
percent to 2.5 percent next year despite slowing global growth,
he said.  The index that tracks shipping companies advanced the most
today among the Topix’s 33 industry groups. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines,
Japan’s second-biggest shipper by sales, gained 4 percent to 283
yen, after slumping as much as 7 percent yesterday. Larger
Nippon Yusen K.K. jumped 2.7 percent to 192 yen. The Topix index
of container lines has plunged by about half this year.  Inpex (1605) , Olympus  Inpex advanced 3 percent to 485,500 yen today after Credit
Suisse raised its target price for the shares to 700,000 yen
from 580,000 yen. Progress on an offshore liquefied natural gas
project in  Australia  could boost the company’s energy reserves,
Credit Suisse said.  Olympus rose by its daily limit to 1,065 yen. The maker of
optical equipment may sell as much 100 billion yen ($1.28
billion) in preferred shares to shore up its balance sheet, the
Nikkei newspaper reported without saying where it got the
information. Sony and Fujifilm are among companies that may
invest, according to the report.  Olympus was not the source of the Nikkei report, the
company said in a statement. Spokesmen at Sony and Fujifilm
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 