-- Japan in Discussions With China About Possible Purchase of Government Debt
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2011-12-20T02:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/japan-in-discussions-with-china-about-possible-purchase-of-government-debt.html
Japan  is discussing with China
possible purchases of Chinese government bonds, Finance Minister
 Jun Azumi  said, a sign the nation is diversifying foreign-
exchange holdings by tapping into the world’s second-largest
economy.  “I think it’s mutually beneficial” for the two countries
to be investing in one another’s debt, Azumi said at a press
conference in Tokyo today. “We’re not abandoning the dollar or
euro, but we’re adding the yuan to deepen our relationship.”  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  signaled in September 2010 as
the nation’s finance chief that Japan should have the ability to
invest in China’s market given that the Chinese are buying
Japanese debt. Japan holds $1.22 trillion of  foreign-currency
reserves, the world’s largest after  China .  Noda will discuss the bond purchases when he meets his
Chinese counterpart later this month, Azumi said, adding that
the government has not made a final decision on this issue.  “It’s another step forward in the path of yuan
internationalization,” said  Liu Dongliang , a senior analyst in
Shenzhen at  China Merchants Bank Co. (600036) , the nation’s sixth-biggest
bank. “It shows yuan-denominated assets are becoming more and
more attractive. But the quota may be small because China will
be cautious in allowing foreign governments to invest in Chinese
government bonds.”  Yuan Investment  Central banks from Thailand to Nigeria plan to start buying
yuan as slowing global growth has capped interest rates in the
U.S. and Europe. Investment has become easier for central banks
as issuance of yuan-denominated bonds in  Hong Kong  more than
tripled to 112 billion yuan ($17.6 billion) this year and
institutions were granted quotas to invest onshore.  The Nikkei newspaper reported today that Japan was in talks
with China to purchase the debt. Japan’s discussions of buying
yuan-denominated debt come at a time when investors are seeking
alternatives to U.S. Treasuries and European debt. The U.S. lost
its AAA rating status at Standard & Poor’s in August.  China, which is also Japan’s largest trading partner, sold
the second-biggest net amount of Japanese debt on record as the
yen headed for a postwar high against the dollar and benchmark
yields approached their lowest levels in a year. It cut Japanese
debt by 853 billion yen ($11 billion) in October, Japan’s
Ministry of Finance said on Dec. 8. China sold a net 2.02
trillion yen of Japanese debt in August 2010, a record based on
data going back to January 2005.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  