-- Jonathan Demme’s ‘Wild’ Road Saga Paved Way for Tarantino: Film
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2011-12-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/jonathan-demme-s-wild-road-saga-paved-way-for-tarantino-peter-rainer.html
Feel like chucking that drab office
job? Before acting rashly, check out Jonathan Demme’s
“ Something Wild ,” maybe the best cautionary tale ever filmed
about leaving civilization behind and hitting the road.  Recently released by Criterion on DVD, the 1986 movie
features Jeff Daniels as Charlie Driggs, a strait-laced New York
tax consultant unexpectedly swept up in a joyride with  Melanie Griffith ’s free-spirited Lulu.  That name, like much else about Lulu, turns out to be an
invention. (Her real name is Audrey.) After a chance meeting at
a New York City diner, she and Charlie head to a cheap motel for
a sexy romp. Audrey then persuades him to drive with her to
 Pennsylvania  and pose as her husband at her 10th high-school
reunion.  She’s changed her look by then. Her jet-black pageboy is
now blond and instead of being swathed in African and Native
American jewelry, she’s dressed like a small-town conservative.  At the reunion she bumps into her real husband, Ray (Ray Liotta), fresh out of prison and looking like a renegade from
“The Wild One.” His entrance flips the movie’s tone from comic
to deeply scary. By the end, Charlie has to fight not only for
Audrey but for his own life.  In its funky, homespun way, “Something Wild” is a
companion piece to David Lynch’s “Blue Velvet,” which also
came out in 1986. Both are about the horrors lurking inside the
ordinary.  ‘Crazy Mama’  Demme started out working for producer Roger Corman as the
director of such B-pictures as “Caged Heat” and “Crazy
Mama.” He had two critical hits prior to “Something Wild” --
the CB-radio comedy “Handle With Care” (1977) and “Melvin and
Howard” (1980), the Oscar-winning film about the genial doofus
who claimed he was heir to the Howard Hughes fortune.  As Demme explains in a DVD extra, he was ready to switch
careers after his dispiriting experience on “Swing Shift”
(1984), a World War II drama about home-front female factory
workers that starred Goldie Hawn.  The film was taken away from him, re-edited and partially
re-shot, some say at Hawn’s insistence. The screenwriting credit
is a pseudonym. (I once was able to see a bootleg of Demme’s
original cut; it’s significantly richer than the released
version.)  Demme’s excitement over E. Max Frye’s screenplay for
“Something Wild” brought him back to filmmaking. His joy is
palpable on the screen. A music lover, he garlands the
soundtrack with pop-funk, rock and reggae, featuring everybody
from John Cale and  Laurie Anderson  to the Feelies.  Fearsome Liotta  Over the years, some of Demme’s best work has been on music
documentaries, including three movies about  Neil Young  and the
Talking Heads film “Stop Making Sense” (1984).  “Something Wild” didn’t fare well at the box-office,
perhaps because it was promoted as a goofy comedy. But it was a
breakout film for Liotta, who had only appeared in soaps and bit
roles until then.  Not since Richard Widmark’s giggly psychopath in “Kiss of
Death” (1947) had there been such a frightening debut, even
though Liotta never plays Ray like a villain. Ray always thinks
he’s on the right side.  Griffith was cast because she impressed Demme as the tinkly
voiced porn star Holly Body in Brian De Palma’s “Body Double”
(1984). Her range in “Something Wild” is extraordinary. When
Audrey is held captive by Ray, her come-hither allurements
vanish and we see the scared, hard-bitten woman underneath.  Daniels, in a role originally intended for Kevin Kline,
makes Charlie likable in the early scenes. It’s later on, when
Charlie is half-crazed, that Daniels shows his true stuff.  With its jangly mix of levity and frights, “Something
Wild” is a clear precursor to the films of  Quentin Tarantino .
Demme’s film, however, is far more humane than anything by
Tarantino. When the people in “Something Wild” are cut, they
bleed real blood.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer for this story:
Peter Rainer at  fi1L2e@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  