-- Kazakh Opposition Warns Government Actions May Fuel Unrest
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2011-12-20T17:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/kazakh-opposition-warns-government-disregard-may-foment-unrest.html
Kazakh opposition groups warned
unrest may spread after at least 15 people died in  riots  that
followed Independence Day celebrations in the Central Asian
country’s oil-producing province.  Demonstrators rallied in freezing wind today in the
regional capital of Aktau to voice support for striking oil
workers in the town of Zhanaozen, where earlier protests were
centered,  Vladimir Kozlov , a leader of the unregistered Alga
party, told reporters in Almaty today.  “The authorities continue to ignore peaceful protests in
Aktau and create grounds for a repeat of the events that
happened in Zhanaozen,” Kozlov said, adding that he returned to
Almaty from Aktau this morning. The opposition unveiled a
proposal today for an independent probe into the violence.  Kazakhstan is the second-biggest oil producer in the former
 Soviet Union  following Russia, with output of about 1.6 million
barrels a day, about the same as pre-war Libya. It has attracted
companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
 ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Total SA (FP) ,  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  BG Group Plc. (BG/)   Clashes in western Kazakhstan spread after the police used
arms to suppress unrest in Zhanaozen, where  14 people  died in a
mass riot on Dec. 16, the worst bout of violence since the
former Soviet republic won independence two decades ago. Oil
workers at state-owned KazMunaiGaz National Co. units have been
striking in Zhanaozen since May over wages.  ‘Unprecedented’ Unrest  “The recent unrest in the western Mangistau region in
Kazakhstan is unprecedented in a country that has enjoyed one of
the most stable political environments in the region,”  Standard
& Poor’s  said today in an e-mailed statement. The company left
its BBB+ rating unchanged for  Kazakhstan , saying that it could
reassess its view “if the unrest escalated and became
protracted enough to threaten foreign and domestic investment
plans at major oil and gas projects.”  Reports of “mass bloodshed” are groundless
“disinformation spread as provocations,” the Kazakh Prosecutor
General’s Office said in statement e-mailed today. No crimes or
curfew violations were reported last night in Zhanaozen, where a
state of emergency is in effect until Jan. 5.  ‘Destabilizing Impact’  “Any further significant death toll could have a
destabilizing impact in the Mangistau region, and potentially
more broadly,” Gemma Ferst, a London-based analyst at Eurasia
Group, said by e-mail. “Longer term, the risk is that these
events signal a gradual deterioration in the overall business
environment in terms of increased costs and security risks.”  KazMunaiGas EP (KMG) , the London-listed unit of Kazakhstan’s
national energy company, heightened security at its production
facilities, which it said weren’t harmed by the rioting,
according to a statement Dec. 16. Company employees didn’t take
part in the unrest, it said.  KazMunaiGas EP shares rallied as much as 10 percent and
were up 9.1 percent at $15 at 3:46 p.m. in  London , heading for
the biggest gain since May 2010.  Prime Minister Karim Massimov formed a government
commission to investigate the reasons for the unrest and assess
the damage caused. Massimov ordered his deputy in charge of the
commission, Umirzak Shukeyev, to draw up a list of people who
lost jobs and are eligible for state assistance, Interfax
reported today.  Preserving Stability  Massimov urged the nation to unite around President
 Nursultan Nazarbayev  to help preserve stability, according to a
 statement  posted on the government’s website today.  The global financial crisis sharpened social conflict,
Yermukhambet Yertysbayev, a presidential adviser, said in the
state-owned Kazakhstanskaya Pravda on Dec. 18. “Unfortunately,
our country, which was an island of stability” among former
Soviet republics didn’t, “escape it,” he said.  “In this heavy moment for all of us, the Kazakh people
sharply felt a greater need to unite around the Leader of the
Nation, our president, who has this issue under his personal
control,” Yertysbayev said.  Nazarbayev, 71, who has ruled the Central Asian state since
1989 in the Soviet era, won a new five-year term in April with
95.5 percent of the vote. He was named “leader of the nation”
last year, giving him the power to dictate policy even after
retirement.  Last month, Kazakhstan dissolved Parliament and set an
early election for January. The ruling Nur Otan party, headed by
Nazarbayev, won all the seats in Parliament in August 2007
legislative elections, which were also unscheduled. The next
vote was to be held in mid-2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 