-- Keystone Deadline Isn’t Enough Time for Review, Carney Says
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2011-12-20T18:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/keystone-deadline-leaves-too-little-time-for-review-carney-says.html
An effort by Congress to prod
President  Barack Obama  on the Keystone XL oil pipeline gives the
administration insufficient time to complete a review that meets
environmental laws, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said.  Language in a Senate bill extending the U.S. payroll- tax
cut  sets a 60-day deadline for a permit to be issued by the
State Department, and a full review takes longer, Carney said
yesterday at a White House news briefing.  “It would be very difficult, as I understand it, for the
State Department to say that that review had been responsibly
achieved in 60 days,” Carney said.  Republicans introduced a bill setting the deadline after
the State Department said in November it would delay until 2013
acting on the $7 billion pipeline crossing six U.S. states to
study alternative routes. Environmental groups say the project
threatens drinking-water supplies and delivers crude from
western  Canada  that worsens climate change.  The language in the payroll-tax measure allows “almost any
interpretation” on the fate of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s bid for
Keystone, according to  Michael McKenna , an oil-industry lobbyist
and president of MWR Strategies Inc. in  Washington .  “The only hard and clear thing is if he determined it is
in the national interest, then State has to issue a permit,”
McKenna said yesterday in an interview. “The rest of it is like
a Rorschach test of what you think about the project.”  House, Senate Spar  The Senate bill extending the tax cut for two months with
the pipeline language passed 89-10 on Dec. 17. Continuing the 2
percentage-point tax cut is in jeopardy as leaders of the Senate
and House of Representatives disagree over how to proceed before
the break expires Dec. 31. The House today rejected the Senate
measure on a 229-193 vote.  The pipeline has become a flash point between Republicans
in Congress and the Obama administration over jobs and the
environment. The 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) project, which
would carry 700,000 barrels of crude a day from  Alberta ’s oil
sands to U.S. Gulf of Mexico refineries, also has split two
Democratic constituencies, labor and environmental advocates.  TransCanada applied for a permit in 2008. Advocates such as
U.S. Senator  Richard Lugar , an Indiana Republican who sponsored
legislation to set a deadline, say it would add jobs and bring
oil from a friendly country. TransCanada has said the pipeline
will create more than 20,000 U.S. jobs through 2012.  ‘Not Credible’  “Saying not getting oil from Canada, which we already do,
is not in the national interest is not credible,” Andy Fisher,
a spokesman for Lugar, said in an interview. “There’s strong
support from unions and a good bit of the president’s coalition
for the pipeline.”  The Obama administration delayed the decision in response
to concerns from  Nebraska  citizens, state officials and some
members of Congress that TransCanada’s proposed route across the
state’s Sandhills area risks the Ogallala aquifer, the drinking-
water source for 1.5 million people.  A new route across Nebraska will require a fresh
environmental review, according to Susan Casey-Lefkowitz,
director of the international program at the  Natural Resources
Defense Council . The route review “could be completed as early
as the first quarter of 2013,” the State Department said.  “State says it cannot make a determination -- meaning that
it will have no choice but to reject,” Casey-Lefkowitz said in
an interview. “The president has already said that the review
is not finished.”  Bush Review  The review process was established in an order signed by
President  George W. Bush . The part of the review meant to
determine whether the project is in the national interest was
suspended in November. The State Department is conducting the
review because the pipeline crosses an international boundary.  “There are superior statues governing that pipeline and
they would still govern even if this goes into law,”  Kevin Book , managing director at ClearView Energy Partners LLC, a
Washington-based policy analysis firm, said in an interview.
“Obama holds all the cards. He doesn’t have to say no. He
certainly doesn’t have to say yes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  