-- Kim Jong Un Grieves With North Korea Officials at Father’s Bier: KCNA Text
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-20T07:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/kim-jong-un-grieves-with-north-korea-officials-at-father-s-bier-kcna-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of an e-mailed statement released today by the official
Korean Central News Agency from Pyongyang. KCNA yesterday
announced that North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  died Dec. 17.  “A solemn ceremony took place in Pyongyang Tuesday to mourn
before the bier of Kim Jong Il, general secretary of the
Workers’ Party of  Korea , chairman of the DPRK National Defence
Commission and supreme commander of the Korean People’s Army at
a time when the whole country is in the bitter sorrow at the
unexpected sad news of his demise.  Kim Jong Un, vice-chairman of the Central Military
Commission of the WPK, together with senior officials of the
party, state and armed forces organs, visited the bier of Kim
Jong Il to express deep condolences with the bitterest grief.  The Kumsusan Memorial Palace, the mourning place, was in a
solemn atmosphere. The bier of Kim Jong Il was seen lying among
flowers, covered by the red flag. Marked on the front of the
bier were the years of “1942-2011” as well as the national
emblem of the DPRK.  Seen before the bier were shoulder straps of the DPRK
Marshal, Kim Il Sung Order, Kim Il Sung Prize, medals of the
DPRK hero and labor hero and lots of other orders and medals the
army and people of the DPRK presented to him in recognition of
his great feats.  Seen beside the bier was a wreath from Kim Jong Un, vice-
chairman of the Central Military Commission of the WPK.
 Members of the National Funeral Committee were standing guard
by the side of the bier and guards of honor of the three
services of the Korean People’s Army and the Worker-Peasant Red
Guards were standing on either side of the bier.  Amid the solemn playing of funeral music, Kim Jong Un
entered the hall where Kim Jong Il lies in state.  Kim Jong Un observed a moment’s silence in the bitterest
grief together with leading officials of the party, state and
armed forces organs before going round the bier.  The participants remained long before the bier, wailing
over the sudden and grievous death of Kim Jong Il, outstanding
leader of the party, state and army, peerlessly illustrious
commander of Songun and benevolent father of the people.  They included Kim Yong Nam, Choe Yong Rim, Ri Yong Ho, Kim
Kyong Hui, Kim Yong Chun, Jon Pyong Ho, Kim Kuk Thae, Kim Ki Nam,
Choe Thae Bok, Yang Hyong Sop, Ri Yong Mu, O Kuk Ryol, Kang Sok
Ju, Pyon Yong Rip, Jang Song Thaek, Kim Jong Gak, Kim Yang Gon,
Kim Yong Il, Pak To Chun, Choe Ryong Hae, Kim Rak Hui, Thae Jong
Su, Kim Phyong Hae, Mun Kyong Dok, Ju Kyu Chang, U Tong Chuk and
Kim Chang Sop.” 