-- London Penthouse Said to Sell for About $157M
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2011-12-20T17:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/knightsbridge-penthouse-duplex-said-to-have-sold-for-about-157-million.html
A penthouse apartment in  London ’s
Knightsbridge neighborhood was purchased for about 100 million
pounds ($157 million), a person with knowledge of the
transaction said.  The undisclosed buyer paid about 7,000 pounds a square foot
for the unfurnished duplex in the  Bulgari Hotel and Residences ,
according to the person, who requested anonymity because the
deal was private. A second penthouse unit in the development is
on the market for 69 million pounds, the person said.  London’s luxury-home values have accelerated this year as
international investors seek a haven for their wealth in the
city’s central neighborhoods, such as Belgravia, Knightsbridge
and Mayfair. The hotel is setting a “new benchmark” for prime
residential real estate as its location, link with luxury
retailer  Bulgari SpA (BUL)  and limited number of units helps boost
prices, Giles Hannah, a Christie’s International Real Estate
director handling the sale, said in a telephone interview.  “Having the Bulgari brand adds about thousand pounds a
square foot,” Hannah said. “You look at the number of
apartments at the other developments in London compared with the
one I’m looking after, it’s not possible to hand make everything
in a larger development. Nothing here has been mass-produced.”  Prime Knightsbridge  Prime Knightsbridge Developments Ltd.  owns the Bulgari
project, which has 85 hotel rooms and eight apartments.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s International Bank unit is the lender for the
project, according to Land Registry documents. Construction work
will be completed in the second quarter of 2012, according to
the hotel’s website.  The price is nearly double the $88 million that former
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  chairman Sanford Weill’s Manhattan apartment is
being purchased for by the daughter of a Russian billionaire.
That would make it the most expensive residential transaction
ever in the New York borough, according to  Jonathan Miller ,
president of appraiser Miller Samuel Inc.  The 14,000-square-foot (1,300 square meter) Knightsbridge
penthouse was sold in April, according to the person familiar
with the deal. Prime Knightsbridge referred calls seeking
comment to Christie’s, which is handling the sale of the eight
apartments. Hannah declined to comment on the price paid.  Bulgari Store  A home in the One Hyde Park condominium complex, which was
conceived by Christian and Nick Candy, sold for 7,500 pounds a
square foot after the interiors were furnished. Knightsbridge is
one of London’s wealthiest neighborhoods and home to luxury
retail outlets including the Harrods and Harvey Nichols
department stores.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  reached a
deal to buy Bulgari, which has a store on Sloane Street in
Knightsbridge, last March.  Developers can get as much as 30 percent more a square
foot for branded residences, said Gerard Nolan of broker Gerard
Nolan & Partners, in an interview. The appeal for buyers is that
the hotel manages their assets and ensures quality control of
services and staff, said Nolan, who has been involved in the
sale of more than 350 hotels in London.  Branded luxury residences are expected to increase as
developers take advantage of the premium that some labels can
add, Knight Frank LLP said today in a report.  “I can see the model being heavily exploited in the
capital cities that are regarded as the most international, as
well as the most luxurious vacation hotspots,” Stephan Miles- Brown, the broker’s head of residential development, said in the
report.  Prime central-London prices have risen around 40 percent
since the market’s last slump in March 2009, Knight Frank said
earlier this month. Luxury  home prices  will rise 5 percent next
year, the London-based broker said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 