-- Kosovo 2012 State Budget Sees Sale of Telephone Operator PTK
-- B y   B e k i m   G r e i c e v c i   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2011-12-20T14:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/kosovo-2012-state-budget-sees-sale-of-telephone-operator-ptk.html
Kosovo, the Balkan nation that
declared independence in 2008, will attempt to sell state-owned
telecommunications company  Posta dhe Telekomunikacioni i Kosoves
Sh.A. , according to the 2012 state budget.  Lawmakers in the capital Pristina voted 63-47 today to
approve the budget, which plans total spending of 1.52 billion
euros ($2 billion). The sale of as much as 75 percent of the
phone company, known as PTK, is expected in the first three
months of next year, according to public broadcaster
 Radiotelevizioni i Kosoves .  The government of Prime Minister Hashim Thaci is counting
on 100 million euros from the  International Monetary Fund  in the
first half of next year to fund part of the expenditures and
also plans to sell 75 million euros of  government bonds  to local
investors for the first time.  The predominantly Albanian province, which declared
independence from Serbia more than three years ago, needs to cut
public spending to get financial assistance from the IMF. The
Washington-based lender halted the disbursement of funds this
year because of the government’s failure to rein in
expenditures. The IMF sees Kosovo’s economy expanding 4 percent
next year and said last month it may renew its assistance in
2012.  The Balkan nation canceled the sale of PTK in October due
to a corruption investigation at the Pristina-based company.
Before that,  T-Hrvatski Telekom d.d. (HTRA)  of  Croatia  and  Telekom
Austria AG (TKA)  were chosen as finalists to purchase the phone
company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bekim Greicevci in Pristina via Ljubljana newsroom at
   bekim.greicevci@gmail.com 
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  