-- Nations Meeting in Rome Agree to Increase Pressure on Iran
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2011-12-20T18:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/nations-meeting-in-rome-agree-to-increase-pressure-on-iran-1-.html
Italy said participants in talks in
 Rome  on stiffening sanctions on  Iran  called on the nation to
answer questions about its nuclear program and vowed to step up
pressure against the world’s No. 3 crude exporter.  Participants in what was described as a meeting of “like-
minded nations” asked Iran “to satisfy requests by the
international community for immediate clarification on the
nuclear program,” the Italian Foreign Ministry said today in an
e-mailed statement.  “It’s an important meeting, but a preparatory one,” said
 Cliff Kupchan , an analyst at New York-based research company
Eurasia Group. Its purpose is “to prepare for an EU embargo of
Iranian oil, which will probably be announced in January.”  European Union foreign ministers are scheduled to meet next
month to discuss possible sanctions on Iranian oil. The U.S.
approved new restrictions on the country’s oil industry and
banking system on Nov. 21 in an attempt to deter buyers of
Iranian crude and thwart its nuclear program.  Iran ’s oil exports last year were exceeded only by  Saudi
Arabia  and Russia. The country, a member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 3.6 million barrels a day
last month, a Bloomberg survey showed, and exported an average
2.58 million barrels a day in 2010, according to OPEC.  Today’s meeting is part of regular consultations aimed at
broadening sanctions against Iran, the Italian foreign ministry
said in the statement. The participants said they would continue
to “work together to step up pressure on Iran with the aim of
restarting talks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Donovan in Prague at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  