-- Navistar Rises as Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates on Trucks
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2011-12-20T19:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/navistar-rises-as-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-on-truck-unit-margins.html
Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , the
maker of International brand trucks, rose the most in more than
two months in New York trading after reporting fourth-quarter
profit that topped analysts’ estimates on vehicle margins.  Navistar rose 6.8 percent to $39.04 at 2:10 p.m. New York
time and earlier climbed as much as 11 percent, the most since
Oct. 14. The company pared its advance after telling analysts on
a conference call that lower U.S. defense spending next year may
hurt profitability.  The company, based in Lisle,  Illinois , reported an adjusted
fourth-quarter profit of $3.37 a share, beating the $3.09
average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Truck
segment profit more than tripled from a year earlier to $287
million as the company said it improved margins in  North America 
while having “sustained” military sales. The company’s fiscal
fourth quarter ended Oct. 31.  “We expect the industry to continue its steady recovery,”
Daniel Ustian, Navistar’s chairman and chief executive officer,
said in a company statement today. Navistar said net income  rose (OSK) 
almost sixfold to $255 million, or $3.48 a share, from $44
million, or 61 cents, a year earlier.  The billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  disclosed a 9.8 percent
stake in Navistar in an Oct. 13 regulatory filing, making him
the second-largest shareholder. Analyst Ben-Ari Elias of Sterne
Agee & Leach Inc. has said Navistar may boost earnings by
combining with Oshkosh Corp., the armored-truck supplier in
which Icahn disclosed owning a 9.5 percent stake in June. He has
an “underperform” rating on Oshkosh and a “buy” on Navistar.  Oshkosh ‘Synergies’  Navistar and its Oshkosh, Wisconsin-based rival have
military and commercial businesses that “parallel each other,”
Ustian said today on a conference call.  “There are some synergies in our two companies that they
could be worked on together might make some sense for us, but
there are some other parts in that business that make no sense
for us at all,” Ustian said. “Some collaboration we think
might be beneficial for everybody.”  Forklifts are an example of an Oshkosh product that doesn’t
interest Navistar, he said.  Oshkosh rose 5.3 percent to $22 at 2:09 p.m. in  New York ,
after falling 41 percent this year before today.  Annual Elections  Navistar said last month it agreed to hold annual elections
for directors after its management held talks with Icahn about
adding members. Board members would hold one-year terms before
needing to seek re-election, rather than the three-year terms as
of now. The change is subject to clearance by shareholders.  Margins in Navistar’s military business will be
“squeezed” as the U.S. reduces its budget and calls for more
competition from companies next year, Archie Massicotte,
president of the company’s defense unit, said on the call.  Navistar said in a slideshow presentation that it will seek
opportunities with foreign military, especially in the  Middle
East , where it says defense spending is growing.  The company said it bought back 2.7 million shares of its
stock in the quarter and expects to complete its full $175
million repurchase program early next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 Ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  