-- New York City Set to Draw Record 50.2 Million Tourists in 2011, Mayor Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2011-12-20T21:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/new-york-city-set-to-draw-record-50-2-million-tourists-in-2011-mayor-says.html
New York City  will draw about 50.2
million visitors by year-end, breaking a record and achieving a
goal Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  set more than five years ago.  Throughout the year, New York maintained its lead over
Orlando and  Las Vegas  as the most popular American city, the
mayor’s office said in a news release. An estimated 10.1 million
tourists came from other countries, a 4 percent increase over
the previous year.  “That means more guests in our hotels, more shoppers in
our stores, larger audiences in our museums and theaters, more
diners at our restaurants, more riders in our taxis, more
flights and  cruise ships  in our air and seaports, more economic
growth,” the mayor said at a news conference in Times Square.
“And what’s really important in our city -- more  tax revenue 
and more jobs.”  The Bloomberg administration has promoted tourism to
diversify the city’s economy beyond  Wall Street  and provide
entry-level jobs to unskilled workers. The city opened marketing
offices and advertised across the U.S. and overseas.  Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer and Orange County Mayor Teresa
Jacobs countered the mayor’s assertion of tourist supremacy with
statistics of their own. They said their Florida resort area,
home of Disney World, was the first U.S. destination to attract
more than 50 million visitors, with 51.5 million in 2010, a 10.5
percent increase from 2009. New York City reported 48.7 million
tourists last year.  Different Formula  “For our region to continue its recovery, we need for our
travel and tourism economy to lead the way,” Dyer said in a
news release.  Bloomberg said the  Orlando  statistical report stemmed from
a different formula than New York’s, which takes into account
air and train arrivals, hotel stays and surveys. Orlando also
includes all of Orange County in its visitation statistics
because Disney World is outside its city limits, said Stu Loeser, Bloomberg’s press secretary.  Tourists in New York will spend about $32 billion by Dec.
31, more than visitors to any other U.S. city, with about $48
billion in economic impact, the mayor’s office said. City
hotels, restaurants and leisure activities employ about 320,000,
according to state Labor Department statistics.  Hotel Rooms  In 2006, the mayor set a goal to attract 50 million
tourists by 2015, which he later accelerated to 2012.  By year-end, the five boroughs will have more than 90,000
hotel rooms, a 24 percent increase since 2006. If those trends
continue, city hotels will sell a record 27 million room nights,
4.5 percent more than 2010, according to NYC & Company, the
city’s tourism and marketing office.  Convention business has also increased, with almost 4
million visitors spending $3 billion, with $5 billion in
economic impact, in a year in which trade-show travel fell
nationally, the mayor’s office said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  